-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Professor Layton and the Curious Village
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/ds/puzzle/laytonkyoujunofushiginamachi/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 Well over 120 puzzles, with more available weekly via a free download.
 Seamlessly blends puzzle-solving, adventuring, and an entertaining story.
 Attractive visuals with impressive-looking FMV sequences.
 Puzzles are challenging but fair.
 No time limits and a generous hint system keep the game from being frustrating.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 Music is repetitive and annoying.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Feb 14, 2008
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 9
Critic Score: 8.6, 61 Review (s)
User Score: 8.9, 1,768 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Nintendo
Developer: Level 5
Genre: Edutainment
Date: Feb 10, 2008
ESRB: Everyone

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Professor Layton and the Curious Village mixes an interesting story, challenging logic puzzles, 
 and exploration into an extremely entertaining package that you won't want to put down. 

  There's no shortage of brain training and minigame collections on the Nintendo DS, many of which 
 are mediocre. That's why Professor Layton and the Curious Village is such a pleasant surprise. 
 Its marriage of story and gameplay does for brain training and minigames what Puzzle Quest did 
 for puzzle games.  

           There's something happening here. What it is ain't exactly clear.      

  The game's 
 story, which is told via a mix of beautiful full-motion video, as well as attractive still-scenes, 
 follows that of Professor Layton, a man renowned for his puzzle-solving abilities. Along with his 
 young assistant Luke, Professor Layton travels to the village of St. Mystere. Although they were 
 initially called to the town to deal with a curiously written will and search for something known 
 as "The Golden Apple," the duo will be faced with many other unknowns on the journey. Both the 
 quality of the story, as well as its presentation, go a long way toward making this an adventure 
 you'll want to see through to its satisfying conclusion -- a rarity when compared to other puzzle 
 games and minigames collections.  

  To solve the many mysteries in St. Mystere, you must travel around the village and speak to its 
 inhabitants. In this aspect, Professor Layton plays similarly to a 2D point-and-click adventure. 
 You move from one area to the next by tapping the screen. You can also tap random nooks and crannies 
 to find hint coins, secret areas, or hidden puzzles. When you come across townspeople, you interact 
 with them by tapping them as well. They're more than happy to help you... eventually. You see, each 
 person has a logic puzzle that he or she needs you to solve before offering his or her assistance. 
 Yes, this is a bit strange, but you'll learn the reason for it before all is said and done.  

 
  The story mode's 120 or so puzzles cover a wide variety of types; you'll need to move matchsticks, 
 answer riddles, draw objects, solve math problems, place chess pieces, and much, much more. You 
 might have to find out which suspects in a police lineup are lying, come up with a route to work 
 for four people who don't like each other and don't want to see one other along the way, or even 
 tackle a few puzzles where you must get a ball from one end to the other by sliding blocks around. 
 The puzzles range from easy to difficult. While the game can get downright challenging, it rarely 
 gets frustrating. There are no time limits, so you're free to mull things over, which often reveals 
 an astonishingly simple solution. In fact, the way the game forces you to alternate between thinking 
 outside the box and then hitting you with a simple puzzle that you overthink is one of the many 
 clever ways in which the game will challenge you. But fear not, if you've pondered things from 
 every angle and are still stuck, you can get up to three hints on each puzzle by spending hint 
 coins that are sprinkled about the village.  

  Professor Layton is one of those addictive games that's incredibly hard to put down once you get 
 into it. Thankfully, it's pretty lengthy. It should take you anywhere from 13 to 17 hours to finish 
 the fantastic story mode, but once you're done, there's still more to do. You only need to solve 
 about 80 or 85 puzzles to finish the game, so you'll probably want to locate and finish the remaining 
 puzzles because they're so much fun. There are also a number of items to collect during your adventure: 
 gizmos for a contraption, scraps of a painting, or furniture for Luke and Layton's hotel rooms. 
 You're not likely to find all of these on your first play-through, but collecting all the items 
 for each category unlocks bonus content, so it's likely that you'll want to go back to find them. 
 Once you've done all that, there's a large amount of bonus content to keep you busy. For an additional 
 challenge, you can tackle some ultradifficult puzzles not found in the story mode. But what will 
 keep you coming back again and again are free weekly downloadable puzzles. That's right: free. 

           Professor Layton's puzzles range from easy to difficult, but they're always entertaining. 

  Impressive presentation is another aspect in which Professor Layton differentiates itself from 
 other games in its genre. There's quite a bit of high-quality full-motion video, complete with 
 voice acting -- something not often seen on the DS. Environments and characters have a hand-drawn 
 look to them and look like they came straight from an illustrated children's book. This unique 
 style gives the game, as well as its characters, warmth and personality. The only blemish on the 
 otherwise outstanding presentation is the audio, which consists of accordion music that is so repetitive 
 and irritating you'll have to turn it down so you can concentrate on solving puzzles.  

  Professor Layton and the Curious Village combines exploration, story, and logic puzzles to make 
 for a truly unique, entertaining, and even educational experience. Don't be fooled by the game's 
 box art into thinking this is just some silly game for kids; it's a must-own game for any puzzle 
 fan.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (119 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: Ceraby
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 5, 2009 11:06 pm PT
Review:  What hasn't already been said about this game? Creative, puzzling, challenging, charming graphics 
 , characters and art... While it is not the type of game to inducepulse pounding action ", it 
 is a game that one will have trouble putting down. 
  
  The puzzles can be difficult , granted , even with hints, but trying to solve it yourself is all 
 part of the fun. There's a wide variety of puzzles that can keep one entertained for a long time. 
 If anything, it is good to know that there are game guides out there when you are absolutely stuck. 
 
  
  The voice actors do a great job. They fit in well with their role and I have nothing to complain 
 about there. 
  
  The length of the game is just right and it challenges how you look at things. Even after finishing 
 the game, there are extra games included and even more puzzles to be downloaded and solved. Again, 
 it really just is a fun game . Definitely worth the buy, especially for puzzle aficionados. It's 
 a game a DS player would be proud to own. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: fayenatic
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 31, 2009 9:36 am PT
Review:  Professor Layton.... Lots and lots of clever puzzles and a story that keeps you going. The puzzles 
 will require you to really think, they're actually quite fun and challenging. They come in numerous 
 styles and difficulty levels. The story and characters are well integrated into the game and provide 
 a neat system of gameplay. There are "hidden" puzzles around town, as well as "hidden" coins that 
 allow you to ask for hints -- so put your detective glasses on and look around carefully! There 
 are also bonus puzzles you can download and extra sets of puzzles you can earn by accomplishing 
 missions (i don't want to spoil anything so I won't go into too much detail on those) . Believe 
 me, the puzzles are fun because they are addicting and exercise your mind. And there's a lot of 
 them so the fun keeps going. I enjoy the music too. There's a reason Professor Layton has become 
 one of the top selling DS games. I am looking forward to the sequels (if they ever make it to N. A.) 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Klagmar1
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 30, 2009 3:11 pm PT
Review:  Most people overlook this game. Either they do not know of it or are scared of its concept. Well, 
 Professor Layton and the Curious Village pulls off everything flawlessly. First, you'll be surprised 
 by the opening cut scene, done entirely in Miyazaki-style animation complete with voice acting. 
 The next thing that will hit you is the music. I never realized how good accordions could sound!
 
  
  Once you get to the actual gameplay, the main idea becomes obvious fast. You walk around town and 
 talk to people, who then give you small puzzles. These puzzles get more and more challenging, but 
 the reason they're so much fun is just their sheer uniqueness. Some are classic word problems you 
 may recognize with a twist, some require careful thinking, and others can be solved simply by constant 
 experimenting. No matter what puzzle you solve, however, you are always left feeling clever and 
 satisfied at the end.
  
  Finally, the story elements are nothing to scoff at either. For a game that rests mainly in puzzles, 
 interacting with the quirky residents of St. Mystere (the "village") is also a joy. Everyone you 
 meet is just bizzarre and entertaining, and Layton himself is no exception. His personality is 
 like a cross between Sherlock Holmes and To Kill A Mockingbird's Atticus Finch. He'll always put 
 a smile on your face and become one of your favorite video game characters. In the end, Professor 
 Layton and his puzzles is sure to delight. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sh811a
Rating: 9.5
Date: Feb 20, 2009 6:44 pm PT
Review:  I always love both the mystery and puzzle genere, this game has both combined and the best both 
 have to offer. 
  
  There is just so much I love about this game. The animation is great it really brings out that 
 feel of a mid to late 18th or early 90's European country atmosphere, the background are remonicent 
 of the old European background paintings. Characters are just as well animated look almost as though 
 they could be from a graphic novel/childrens story book almost feels similar to Childerens book 
 and graphic novel writer and artist Ramond Biggs who did "The Snowman" and "When the Wind Blows" 
 (at least that's my observation) ; whats goes on throughout most of the game at times feels like 
 fliping though those book pages. The accordian soundtrack fits and adds the right atmosphere to 
 the game giving it that European country feel. Control is solid it was a great use of the touch 
 pen.
  
  This game does actually contain a well constructed intreging mystery and interesting characters 
 most notably Professor Layton and Luke whom are sort of are modern versions of Shirlock Homes and 
 Watson, this was one of the factors that kept me playing. Yeah I know what your thinking, cleche 
 murder mystery mancion format yes it's true there is a mancion but this mystery is anything but 
 cleche, the mystery extends beyond the mancion and goes straght to the town all the way to the 
 mysterious sureal tower mansion (which looks like something out of the silent german expresionist 
 horror film "The Cabnet of Dr. Calagari) help deppen and provide nice twists all to add more to 
 the intrigue.
  
  This game main factor though is it has plenty of participating in the form of the brain teasers 
 from riddles to a few puzzles corlating with the ongoing mystery so yeah this game is litterally 
 a puzzle within a puzzle. All are not too hard to solve but not that easy either but don't fret 
 chances are you'll be able to solve most to all of them and not have to consolt a video game guide 
 much to get the answer (though may'be for a few, I hate to admit it but I had to consult it a few 
 time cause some of those riddles I couldn't solve damn they were tricky, seeing those answers to 
 them made me think why the hell didn't I think of that.) ; but all the same take time to solve so 
 don't expect to get the correct answer imediately like in all riddles and puzzle they go by the 
 principle where the solution is actually simple it just doesn't seem that way at first and it's 
 all really a matter of how you look at it.
  
  I know what your thinking again, is there a point to the brain tessers, yes there is. Each of the 
 puzzles might contain either an item to a gizmo or a piece of a torn paint all are of course crucial 
 devices latter in the game. But also you earn points which will help you gain access to certain 
 parts of the game but will lead to the good ending so solves as many puzzles as you can access 
 and find. There is also hint coins which buy you hints to a riddle. But careful there aren't that 
 many lying around, which gives you only a limited amount so don't waste them use them only if the 
 riddle has you really stumped. 
  
  But word of warning, this might not be a game for everyone if your a novice in both the mystery 
 and puzzle genere then it might not be for your skill level because this game isn't for beginers 
 it was designed for experenced puzzle solvers, or your just not into riddles in general then it 
 just might not be for you.
  
  Well thats all I have to say, Professor Layton is one of those mystery puzzles games you'll love 
 to get lost in. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: notyalemblem
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 24, 2009 11:38 am PT
Review:  
  This game was released in America on February 10, 2008. I was unsure on whether or not to get this 
 game, even after looking at the reviews but after hearing about how good this game was from so 
 many people, I caved in and bought it, one month after its release. At first, I thought I had made 
 a mistake in buying it, but after a few minutes of playing it, I knew I had made the right choice. 
 The game was very addicting, and I ended up beating it in 2 days.
  
  Game play: Most of the game play will revolve around solving puzzles. This may not sound so exiting, 
 but the puzzles are very well written, with hand-drawn pictures to accompany the puzzle on the 
 top screen. I listed this game as hard, because a large number of puzzles can be very tricky, and 
 in the end, you will most likely be satisfied when you solve the puzzles or in disbelief when you 
 figure out how easy the problems really are, if you don't try to over think any of the problems. 
 The game progresses through you solving the puzzles, with the majority of puzzles being optional. 
 
  
  Story: Considering this was a puzzle game, I was amazed at how much I ended up enjoying the story. 
 The story is very well written, with some plot twists, that many people will never have expected, 
 involving a professor named Layton and his assistant Luke, as they travel through the village of 
 St. Mystere, as they try to locate the mysterious "Golden Apple". Though the story is not the longest, 
 it's nicely done, and I found that incorporating a story into a puzzle game can be a very good 
 idea.
  
  Graphics/Sounds: The characters and surroundings are all very nicely drawn and colored. This game, 
 also includes fully animated cut scenes, with voice overs, that go along with the mood and atmosphere. 
 Overall, I think that the developers did a really good job, with the graphics and animated scenes. 
 One thing, that people may find annoying, is the song played when solving a puzzle. It's not bad, 
 but it is played every time you are playing a puzzle, and if you don't enjoy hearing the same song 
 every time you are solving a puzzle, you may want to turn the volume down.
  
  Replay value: This game should take somewhere between 7-12 hours to complete, depending on the 
 amount of puzzles you choose to solve, though since the puzzles are done so well, most people who 
 like this game, will play all the games 135 puzzles. Though, there are also some extra puzzles 
 to solve, through Wi-fi, that are downloaded every week, but all the puzzles are already out, so 
 once you go on wi-fi for the first time, you will download all the puzzles. The downside, is that 
 this game has a very low replay value. The story is very nice, but playing it a second time can 
 be boring, as you already know everything that will happen. Also, the puzzles are very enjoyable, 
 but playing them again after you beat them can also be boring, because you already know the answers.
 
  
  Final Recommendation: I highly advise anyone that likes puzzle games or good game play, to get 
 this game as it's one of the best games out for the Ds. Also, not everyone will like this game, 
 as everyone has different tastes and personalities. If you hate puzzles or can't stand short games 
 or games with no replay value, then this game might not be for you. If replay value is a very important 
 thing to consider on your list, when buying video games, then I suggest that you rent it and beat 
 it, as it's not that long of a game. Personally though, I highly recommend that you give this game 
 a chance, as you may end up finding this game very enjoyable like I have. One last thing, is that 
 no game is perfect, and this game is no exception to the rule. This game has its flaws, so don't 
 expect a perfect game. If you buy it, I hope you enjoy it, like I have. 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Shy_Guy_Red
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jan 21, 2009 10:07 pm PT
Review:  Professor Layton and the Curious Village for the DS is a very good game and a unique one as well 
 with many great new features. I'll start off with the great things about this game.
  
  Professor Layton is your standard point and click game but it has a lot of puzzles which really 
 make it fun. The story is also very well done and there are amazing cutscenes that you will love 
 to watch. The point and clicking is made fun with hint coins you can find all throughout the game 
 that are hidden it many spots you must search for and just touch with the stylus. Obviously since 
 it's point and click you'll be talking to lots of people and going around finding the next clue 
 so it is standard there.
  
  The puzzles however, are VERY good. You will encounter tons of puzzles throughout the game and 
 they are a lot like stars in Super Mario 64 in that most of them are optional but you'll need to 
 solve a certain amount of puzzles in order to get though some of the parts of the game so you'll 
 want to do as many as you can. 
  
  I said they are very good because the difficulty is great. Each and every puzzle is made so perfect 
 so that you won't spend lots and lots of time wondering how in the world to find the answer but 
 you won't solve each puzzle very fast and each one will require you to think about it and with 
 friends or family it is actually much better. I liked to ask my friends and family when I was stuck 
 and then they would help and then they'd want to do more so it can get very addicting with the 
 many puzzles being at a perfect difficulty. 
  
  Of course there are more hard puzzles then easy ones so you'll need your hint coins for those so 
 be sure to search for them. You may get stuck and want to simply get the answer on the internet 
 but I rarely did this and finally getting the answer can be quite rewarding.
  
  The story is great. There will be lots and lots of mysteries and you'll think that they are all 
 connected but then as they slowly reveal themselves you discover another force is at work and the 
 story gets very interesting towards the end when it is all revealed. The voice acting is also very 
 well done during the cutscenes. They match the characters perfectly.
  
  I don't know what it is but the game just doesn't feel new to me. It just feels like a Freddi Fish 
 or Pajama Sam game with a lot more puzzles and a better story and so it just feels like it is lacking 
 innovation. I don't know, once you beat the game and figure out the story you won't want to play 
 it much more except for maybe getting all the puzzles solved.
  
  The graphics are good, it's your standard point and click game graphics and the cutscenes are as 
 gorgeous as ever and fun to watch over and over.
  
  The music is good, but like Rocket Slime I feel there isn't enough. For example, there are 130 
 puzzles in the solve and there is only 1 song for each puzzle so bleh the song gets old, course 
 this was the only part I felt it needed more songs but man, 130 puzzles, in which you'll spend 
 lots of time solving each one and every single one has the exact same song!? WHAT!?
  
  To sum things up, Professor Layton is a simple yet fun game especially for fans of puzzles and 
 finding hidden clues in sentences and such. The story and cutscenes are great, the puzzles are 
 super fun, especially to do with others and see who can solve it first. The graphics and music 
 are mostly good, and even though the game lacks innovation and replay value, it is a very addicting 
 game and one that you will enjoy very much and just a real fun game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: toolzz360
Rating: 8
Date: Jan 4, 2009 3:59 pm PT
Review:  Pros:
  Fabulous Story
  Good Blend if Puzzle and Mystery
  Cutscences with good voice acting
  
  Cons:
  Extremly Difficult Puzzles
  Fairly Short Game
 
  
  
  
  Professor Layton is an above average puzzle game with a fantastic mystery story. The game follows 
 Layton and his young assistant Luke. These puzzle solving masters are called to a mysterious village 
 to find a millionaires buried fortune. His fortune is known as the golden apple, and it is your 
 job to track down whatever the golden apple may be. It is not that simple though as Layton gets 
 involved in a murder, and many other mysteries along the way. The story is told from text scenes, 
 with a few cutscenes with good voice acting thrown in here and there. The story is full of twists 
 and great WOW did that just happen moments. So far it is one of the best stories ive played through 
 in a ds game. 
  
  As the story is unravelling you will be solving over 100 puzzles along the way. the puzzles trigger 
 when you travel around the town looking for clues and talking to people. The majority of the puzzles 
 will challenge even the brightest gamer as there are some incredibly difficult puzzles to be solved. 
 Other puzzles are pretty straightforward, but the difficult puzzles are found more frequently than 
 easier ones. The sheer difficulty and frustration level of some puzzles was enough to knock my 
 score down a little bit. You do however get a limited number of hint coins that can be found in 
 the town to make some of the puzzles a little easier, but you will run out of hint coins for sure. 
 The game has you traveling back and forth between parts of the town, and the mystery portion of 
 the gameplay is a lot better than the puzzles in my opinion. This is what also makes the story 
 so compelling. There are also a few other things to do along the way like collecting painting scraps 
 and gizmos to make a robot and a painting, and you can also collect items for Layton's and Luke's 
 Hotel Rooms.
  
  The graphics in Professor Layton are fine, with no hiccups. The cutscenes looked good and provided 
 a much needed change of pace with all of the text reading. Some of the characters in the game look 
 great, and some of them are just incredibly creepy. The sound in the game is good, as some of the 
 music can get a little bland. The voice acting is great for a ds title. 
  
  I recommend this game to any puzzle fanatic or mystery enthusiast, and many different types o gamers 
 will get something out of the game. Overall it took me 10 hours to finish the game with almost 
 all of the puzzles completed. There isn't much replay value, except for someone who wants to see 
 the story unravel again.
  
  8.0/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Nikki-No-Credit
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 31, 2008 7:53 am PT
Review:  Professor Layton and the Curious Village finds our two main characters, Professor Layton and his 
 assistant Luke, on a journey to the town of st mystere to solve the mystery of the golden apple, 
 a treasure hidden in the village by the late Baron Reinhold.
  
  This really is no ordinary puzzle game, the puzzles are mixed seamlessly into the story line and 
 eventually, you find out the purpose of all those tricky puzzles (but im not telling, it's a secret 
 shhhhhh) and the game isnt short of puzzles either with 135 in the game and you can download more 
 from nintendo wifi every week so you'll never be short of anything to do. 
  
  And some of the puzzles are incredibly difficult, some at first they glance appear that they need 
 complicated mathematics to complete but really the answer is staring you in the face, and if you 
 find yourself doing complicated maths, you're on the wrong lines. Some puzzles require you to get 
 a red ball from one hole to another with pushable obstacles in the way, these are some of the most 
 devilish puzzles as they require real thought so you can't just keep guessing at the answer. 
 
  
  But you do have access to hints, but these you need to buy with hint coins, but there are limited 
 hint coins so you have to use them wisely or you wont have any left for the really hard puzzles. 
 
  
  sometimes, completing a puzzle rewards you with a piece of furniture, a piece of a torn painting, 
 or a piece of a gizmo, in the case of the gizmos, collecting them all gives you three extra puzzles 
 and a something very useful (but im not telling shhhhh) , if you get all of the furniture in the 
 rooms of Professor Layton and Luke resulting in maximum happiness, three more puzzles are unlocked, 
 and if you piece together the jigsaw that it the painting, you guessed it, three more puzzles are 
 unlocked. and if you complete all these and all the other puzzles in the game, you unlock the final 
 three puzzles that are uber difficult, the hardest in the game. 
  
  You'll meet a whole host of crazy characters during the game, some aren't so nice but others you'll 
 grow to love and the storyline in this game is absolutely outstanding, its full of mystery, good 
 and evil, twists and turns and murder... 
  
  There's even a secret called 'the hidden door' which requires a password from the sequel to the 
 game, ooooo mysterious. 
  
  Trust me, this game is really addictive, i completed it 100% in 4 days because i just wanted to 
 know all the answers to the many mysteries and solve the many brilliant puzzles, at times you will 
 feel stupid for getting the answer to the same puzzle wrong about 50 times, but dont worry because 
 it's worth it to hear the ending, seriously, it's a shocker!
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: TTDog
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 30, 2008 2:45 pm PT
Review:  I don't normally do handheld games, to me gaming is something you do with a pad, a console the 
 sixe of an attache case and a big colour TV... not something the size of a diary that has a 3 inch 
 screen and a pointy stick.
  
  I've not really done this one either, not as such, but I've been dragged into it by the other half... 
 when she gets stuck... I get the DS and the stick.
  
  Usually for a maths problem... occasionally for one she's spent hours over only to get all grumpy 
 when I finish it off in a couple fo minutes... logical thought is my forte.
  
  But... it drew me in, I found myself playing when she was out, attempting the finish the game before 
 she did (purely for person pleasure, not to gloat... partly to be able to run through some puzzles 
 that I know ill have her stumped later on) which meant some early morning or late night gaming 
 sessions.
  
  It does that to you... a quick play becomes a two hour marathon as solving an easy puzzle that 
 you swore was going to be your last of the night tempts you into another, and another, and so on.
 
  
  The story is well presented, Professor Layton does occasionally come over as a bit of a "Gary Glitter" 
 type character (if you don't know who he is... good for you, if you do know who he is... you'll 
 know what I mean) and the inhabitants take "eccentric" to new levels.
  
  If you want a game to pick up and play then this is it... just make sure that when you pick it 
 up you have losts of time to spare. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sweetpotatofry
Rating: 8.5
Date: Dec 24, 2008 11:57 am PT
Review:  Last night I spent an hour-and-a-half on a single puzzle. Granted, at the same time I was watching 
 Andrew Zimmern eat octopus ice cream on Bizzare Foods on the Travel Channel, but even so, it was 
 one frustrating puzzle. I will admit that most puzzles don't take nearly that length of time to 
 solve, but I will say that the vast majority of these brain teasers (of which there are well over 
 100) will require some serious thinking. They all range anywhere from laughably simple to frustratingly 
 tough. Many times you will find yourself racking your brain for a good five to ten minutes on a 
 puzzle, only to find that the solution was deceptively straight-forward.
  
  The story is a murder mystery that won't win any awards for originality, but it is full of diverse 
 characters that are interesting and charming enough to keep you searching for "just one more puzzle" 
 before going to bed. The dialogue is all very well written, the music is limited (there are only 
 two or three songs in the entire game) but satisfying, and there are even a few movie-style cutscenes 
 thrown in for good measure. I also thought that the few diversions thrown in- collect scraps of 
 a painting, feng shui the hotel rooms of the two main characters, etc.- were enjoyable in all their 
 simplicity. I'm definitely looking forward to the sequel.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Annimation
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 20, 2008 1:20 am PT
Review:  If you love puzzles and brainteasers then this is a must. It is absolutely brilliant with 120 puzzles 
 of all types to complete and a further 15 bonus puzzles. Couldn't put the damned thing down! And 
 even better - a sequel is promised! Still not sure - then try this little brainteaser for size... 
 it's an old one but still a classic and will help put you in the mood for Professor Layton...
 
  
  You are a farmer taking a fox, a chicken and a sack of grain to market and you come across a river. 
 The only way across the river is by a small boat, which can only hold at most you and one of the 
 three items. Left unsupervised, the chicken will eat the grain and similarly the fox will eat the 
 chicken. Fortunately the fox has no interest in the grain at all, so how do you get everything 
 safely across the river?
  
  I could rant on for hours about this game but I really don't want to spoil it for you.
  
  Enjoy! 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MissKittyKat21
Rating: 8
Date: Dec 1, 2008 6:14 pm PT
Review:  Professor Layton and the Curious Village is a fairly good game. I found a few problems with the 
 game. I personally felt some of the puzzles were too hard. Other puzzles were fairly easy. A lot 
 of the puzzles were just right. Some puzzles were just a matter of tricking you into thinking they 
 were hard or long drawn out puzzles. Some puzzles you just need to take a step back from. Professor 
 Layton and the Curious Village starts out slowly and then starts to progress much faster as you 
 go on. The storyline is actually really good but pretty simple to figure out most of it before 
 you are even half-way through. The storyline is better suited for younger kids but the puzzles 
 are a bit too hard for them. Graphics for the game were really great. I did find that having to 
 pretty much click everywhere in each spot was a little ridiculous. It was harder to find all the 
 puzzles and the hint coins that weren't in very obvious places. I would suggest getting this game 
 used. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Stevie_Q
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 30, 2008 9:55 pm PT
Review:  Professor Layton is simply amazing. It takes the puzzle genre, perfects it, and then adds on extra 
 features to create an all-around package worthy of everyone's attention. This is a game that excels 
 in all aspects and exceeds all expectations. Professor Layton is an absolutely fantastic game, 
 and one that should be experienced by almost every DS owner.
  
  The game follows the story of the esteemed gentlemen Professor Layton and his young assistant Luke. 
 It opens with the first of many beautiful cut-scenes, and shows Layton and Luke rumbling along 
 a dusty country road in an old car. The premise and story are framed by Layton and Luke's conversation. 
 It seems that a rich man, the Baron Reinhold has passed away, and has left all his fortune to the 
 person who can find a mysterious treasure, known only as the Golden Apple. Layton plans to tackle 
 this mystery. You'll find that the duo is travelling to St. Mystere, the village in which Baron 
 Reinhold lived. The car eventually rumbles into the village, and you are summoned to the manor 
 in which the Baron lived. This is where the adventure truly begins.
  
  What is unique about this game is that it effectively combines the puzzle and adventure genres. 
 As the car rumbles through the barren country, Layton consults a map, and this is where your first 
 puzzle is introduced. It's relatively easy. Several villages are shown, but only one of them has 
 a private road. All the others share a road with another village. Your job is to find that village 
 that stands alone. It's not entirely relevant to the story, but it makes sure that you feel engaged 
 in the action. You're not just watching a cut-scene, you are advancing it.
  
  The game doesn't take place in a car, however. The action almost exclusively takes place in the 
 village of St. Mystere. For most of the game, you are entirely unrestrained. Each main area of 
 the village has multiple paths leading to and from it, and you can choose your own path. St. Mystere 
 has many nooks and crannies, and finding them all takes a lot of exploration. Most of the time, 
 these secret areas contain tantalizing rewards, and the promise of such bonuses keep the searches 
 from becoming tedious.
  
  The rewards are often puzzles. The game is classified as a puzzle game, and fortunately puzzling 
 is what it does best. The puzzles are clever, challenging, and varied. They hardly ever feel redundant, 
 which is a major plus, because with over 100 puzzles this was a major concern of mine. I mean, 
 there are only so many times I can re-arrange matchsticks to form a new picture before it gets 
 boring. Granted there is a slight amount of repetition, but in moderation its fine. For example, 
 there are several matchstick puzzles, but with a hint of humour and a definite variation in difficulty, 
 I hardly noticed.
  
  Professor Layton is a very addictive game. Once you've picked it up, the interesting story and 
 addictive gameplay will keep your hands glued to your DS. The main story is a bit on the short 
 side, but thankfully there is a lot more than just the story. Around St Mystere, bits and pieces 
 of a contraption, scraps of a painting, and furniture for Luke and Professor Layton's hotel rooms 
 are hidden. Once you've collected a full set of these items (i. e. enough to build the contraption 
 or finish the painting) , you'll unlock a set of incredibly hard puzzles, known as challenge puzzles. 
 In addition, there are many hidden puzzles. You need only complete 2/3 of the puzzles to finish 
 the game, so you can spend some time after the fact locating and solving the remaining puzzles. 
 As if this weren't enough, each week a new puzzle is announced, so theoretically you can come back 
 to this game for many more months.
  
  Professor Layton's presentation is absolutely top-notch. It's one of the most impressive games 
 on the DS visually, and includes some absolutely beautiful CGI animations. During important plot-points, 
 the game will often cut to a fully-rendered, 3-D cut-scene. They look absolutely amazing, especially 
 considering the DS's limited power. As for the art, a very warm colour palette is present here, 
 with many yellows, oranges, and reds. The characters have a hand-drawn feel, and all have unique 
 features and distinct personalities. It's easy to become attached to the eccentric inhabitants 
 of St. Mystere. The audio is pretty solid, apart from repetitive music. The music is actually pretty 
 good, but there isn't enough variety to keep it from becoming monotonous and annoying. Otherwise, 
 the voice-acting is perfect, and the actual sound quality is arguably the best on the DS.
  
  Overall, Professor Layton delivers one of the best packages on the DS. It's a little on the 
 short-side and the music can get repetitive, but those are truly my only gripes. Otherwise, the 
 game is practically flawless. It's very addictive, so you will probably be able to truck through 
 it in only a couple sittings, but with many collectables and extras to explore, you'll get more 
 than a dozen hours here. There is a lot of crap when it comes to puzzle games on the DS, but Professor 
 Layton and the Curious Village is certainly not a part of it. It's great story, gameplay and presentation 
 vault it to the very top of the DS's library. If you have any interest in puzzle games at all, 
 this game should be in your library. If you don't have an interest in puzzle games, well, Professor 
 Layton might just spark one. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TomiPetteri
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 17, 2008 6:28 am PT
Review:  Wasn't expecting much of the Professor Layton and the Curious Village when I first got it but boy 
 was I surprised.
  
  Basically it's a point-and-click game where you point your way through the streets and paths of 
 a town called St. Mystere solving the truth of a treasure called Golden Apple amongst bunch of 
 other things making your way towards the truth by solving puzzles given to you by a variety of 
 strange villagers.
  
  The game is intelligent, clever and fun. It's got enough depth with some side missions, Layton's 
 Challenges, and with the downloadable weekly puzzle. So it's a great value.
  
  Graphics are nice and the atmosphere of the town St. Mystere is just right and with the sounds 
 and the cutscenes it offers good amount of enjoyment to both eyes and ears. Still the most important 
 part to enjoy will be your brain.
  
  The variety of puzzles is awesome and the game is easily the best puzzle game I have experienced. 
 Some of the puzzles are hard as hell but with the help of hint coins and thinking things through 
 you'll get it eventually and solving a hard puzzle leaves you with a really rewarding feeling.
 
  
  There's really not anything much to complain about this game. Plot can get a bit confused time 
 to time but it sorts out itself. Only downfall could be that hidden puzzles are sometimes hidden 
 in places that really does not make sense and to find them you just have to touch everything you 
 see with your stylus.
  
  For a person who enjoys puzzles, brainteasers and clever fun the game is a touchdown. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jasonglen87
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 16, 2008 3:15 pm PT
Review:  like most of yous i seen this on telle and thought that looks good but i have been burned before 
 (americas next top model, wii fit, guitar hero aerosmith the list is endless) so i bought it anyway 
 i am getting used to being ripped off but i started playing it and this i well worth the money 
 been playing for 24 hours round about (not non stop) and still no whare near the end loads of puzzles 
 and mysteries to solve a jigsaw chucked in for good mesure a home made robot dog? who i named rex 
 original eh and a witch that tells you to stick your unwanted puzzles in her shed? but appart from 
 all the randomness this game is the best i have played for the ds so far that includes brain training 
 and guitar hero well chuffed with game theres hope for tv advertised games after all.
  any one recomend any good games for adults for the ds i will be happy to listen email address is 
 jasonglen87@hotmail. com 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TAGM5000
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 15, 2008 12:12 pm PT
Review:  So, Japan comes up with yet another thing that makes everyone say with a resounding cry "What the 
 hell is in their coffee?!? 'Cause I want some of it!" Huzza for whatever they put in it, because 
 it's a solid game with more then it's fair share of fun.
  The story is somewhat simple: Professor Layton, Not-Quite-Self-proclaimed puzzle solver and his 
 Self-proclaimed assistant Luke, find out about a strange mystery revolving around a dead baron 
 from the town of St. Mystere. He has hidden some sort of treasure called "The Golden Apple," And 
 whoever finds it get's all the baron's Money. Laton, deciding that "Puzzles + Cash = AWESOME!" 
 Decides to investigate, running into so many plot twists that even I was surprised. And I've seen 
 it all, from saving princesses to Bombing Dongos to "OMFG It's world war 75 1/2." I won't spoil 
 it for you, as it's something that only a master at detective work would work out. The story is 
 presented as a mystery Al la CSI, where you're given all the clues, and then the main character 
 explains them all at the end.
  The gameplay is basicaly: Run around town, Find puzzle, slove puzzle, continue storyline, Rince 
 and repeat." While that may sound repetitive, it is anything but. Talking to most of the residents 
 of St. Mystere will start one of the over 120 puzzles, and each one is somewhat different to the 
 last one. Some need you to draw something, sometimes you touch something, and sometimes you drag 
 stuff around like a slide puzzle. (But those crappy things aren't in here, honest.)
  The presentation helps this game as well, with a thing very little DS games have: Voice acting. 
 To a total prat who keeps singing the Team America Theme tune, The almost flawless english acents 
 will annoy, but to everyone else who has even half a brain, you'll be impressed. The animation 
 and artwork fits well into the game, and although the small amount of music tracks will start to 
 grate, they are technicaly good.
  Overall, if you like solving puzzles of CSI type storylines, You''ll enjoy this game. If not, rent 
 it and try it out. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: zolo913
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 10, 2008 3:07 pm PT
Review:  Professor Layton and the Curious Village begins with the famous puzzle-solver, Professor Layton, 
 and his apprentice, Luke, as they travel to the Curious Village. Already, you encounter a few puzzles 
 on the way to the village, but nothing too strenuous. Most of those puzzles are inside the village. 
 As soon as you get there, you find out that you have been summoned to uncover the mystery of the 
 golden apple and the treasures hidden within it. As you start your journey, you are bombarded by 
 challenging puzzles varying from kindergarten easy to oh my gosh I want to rip my brain out and 
 use it to unclog my toilet. The puzzles may be really hard at times, but they are very fun to solve 
 and you get a pleasure out of knowing you solved them. The system is really nice in the fact that 
 it lets you have hints to solve the puzzles using hint coins as payment for the hints. Most of 
 the really difficult puzzles aren't necessary to solve in order to advance into the game, which 
 is really nice because it would get frustrating to solve after awhile. The visuals are unique in 
 the fact that they have a sort of British flare to them and aren't anywhere near the anime -drowned 
 art styles we usually see in games today. Also, the voice acting is top -notch and it suits each 
 character perfectly. The only complaints are that there is a bunch of dialogue. I would expect 
 a lot of dialogue in a mystery puzzle game, but there is so much at certain points that it gets 
 boring. Also the background music is a bit dull and not memorable at all. In conclusion, if you 
 like puzzle games then this is the game for you. If not, then try it anyway. This game is so good 
 that it can appeal to even the hardcore gamers. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: helium_flash
Rating: 8
Date: Oct 22, 2008 10:35 am PT
Review:  Professor Layton and the Curious village is a puzzle-adventure game. The games out with the main 
 characters, Professor Layton and his young assistant Luke, are driving to a secluded town called 
 St. Mystere. Layton, a puzzle-solving detective and an archeologist, has been called there to help 
 solve an inheritance dispute. However, you will soon discover that there is a lot more to the case 
 than that. Baron Augustus Reinhold passed away, and his will said that the family treasure, known 
 as the Golden Apple, was hidden somewhere in the village. Whoever finds the Golden Apple will receive 
 his entire estate. So Professor Layton is going to help Reinhold's wife and investigate the situation 
 for her.
  
  As you will soon see, St. Mystere is no ordinary citizen. As you could tell from the name, St. 
 Mystere hold many secrets about the Baron and his treasure. Not to mention that at the end of the 
 city is a huge, ominous tower which no one is allowed to go in. There are also puzzles lying about 
 everywhere that you need to solve. Even the inhabitants of St. Mystere are obsessed with puzzles, 
 so much that they will insist you solve one anywhere and anytime. These puzzles start at first 
 as rather simple, but as you progress, they get increasingly difficult.
  
  For solving puzzles, you receive picarats, which to my knowledge, have no use in the entire game. 
 Easier puzzles are worth less picarats than more challenging ones. This game is not a walk in the 
 park: the later puzzles are really difficult. However, if you are just so stuck on a puzzle, you 
 can use a hint coin to get a little help on the puzzle. Each puzzle has three hints, and to access 
 every hint you must use a hint coin. You find this coins all around St. Mystere (in the bushes, 
 on a window, ect) .
  
  While solving the game, you will come across other side challenges as well. Some puzzles will give 
 you a piece of a painting, and you must construct the painting as you receive more pieces. Another 
 challenge is finding gizmos, which you can put together to see what the robot you are building 
 is. Also as you go along, you will receive furniture to decorate the Professor's and Luke's room 
 appropriately. Upon completing these tasks, you will unlock more puzzles to solve after the game 
 ends. These are the toughest puzzles in the game, and will require more than a little thinking.
 
  
  The game is set up as a point and click adventure styIe. You click on things with your stylis to 
 see if you will find a hidden puzzle or a hint coin. The graphics are good as well. From time to 
 time, there will actually be animated cut scenes, which look really good. In these cut scenes there 
 is voice acting too, which is good also. The only downside about this is that there are only a 
 few points in the game where you'll witness these animated cut scenes.
  
  The music in the game changes from place to place. There are 19 tunes in the entire game. Some 
 of the tunes get too repetitive or just don't sound very good. The best tunes are definitely "The 
 Plot Thickens" and "Professor Layton's Theme." Fortunately, the music you listen too while solving 
 puzzles isn't annoying, although it is repetitive. You will be able to access the music, and other 
 things, upon completion of the game.
  
  There are a total of 135 puzzles in the game, but you only need to beat 100 of them to finish the 
 story. This will last a while; it took me almost 20 hours to unlock everything. Of course, most 
 of that is just trying to figure out puzzles, but that is still a great deal of time. There are 
 a variety of puzzles to be solved, and they challenge you to think outside of the box. Unfortunately, 
 some of the puzzles repeat themselves, but only with a hidden twist or are much harder than the 
 last one. 
  
  Overall, Professor Layton and the Curious Village was a worthy puzzle game for the DS. The story 
 is interesting, and you are compelled to discover what mysteries are to be discovered in St. Mystere 
 and the conclusion of the Golden Apple. Some of the puzzle are repetitive, but there is still a 
 good variety in the game. This is a game that should be in any DS owners hands looking for a brain-training 
 challenge. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Immartinez
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 8, 2008 11:32 pm PT
Review:  Professor Layton is not only the reason I finally fell in love with my DS, but I can say the same 
 about other converts I've brought along to the club.
  
  I've given the DS-Layton combo as a present to many unlikely DS owners, and they all love it.
 
  
  The game's graphic, dialogue and overall story will charm you all day, and the puzzles are so enjoyable 
 they will turn any ugly four hour flight situation into a pleasant opportunity to get your Layton 
 on.
  
  The graphics are not bad for the DS, I was pretty amazed. 
  
  If you give this game to a kid they will ask you to help them solve a lot of the puzzles. Smart 
 kids will stick it through and figure them out. I loved puzzles as a kid and still do. This game 
 is excellent for young people and adults alike.
  
  I cannot wait for the next episode of the good Professor's adventures. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: JustPlainLucas
Rating: 8.5
Date: Oct 6, 2008 6:28 pm PT
Review:  Since the days of 3-D platforming, the genre of point and click adventures has been dwindling. 
 Thank goodness for the Nintendo DS, because it's the perfect platform for a developer to make a 
 point and click adventure on.
  
  Humble and charming intellectual Professor Layton and his intuitive assistant Luke venture to a 
 small down named St. Mystere. They were summoned to help find a treasure known as the Golden Apple, 
 revealed in a will by the passing of the late baron. Soon, the puzzle-solving duo begin to notice 
 that things aren't what they seem in St. Mystere. They are presented with puzzles by everyone they 
 talk to and everything they come across.
  
  The puzzles, the very heart of the game, are for the most part wonderful. They vary in difficulty 
 as well. Each puzzle is worth a different amount of picarats, which is the game's score. They range 
 from 10 all the way up to 99. As can be safely assumed, the more picarats the puzzle's worth, the 
 harder it is to solve. If you fail to solve a puzzle, the amount of picarats you can score decreases.
 
  
  To asssist you in your puzzle solving are hint coins. Each puzzle has three hints you can unlock 
 to help you when you get stuck. You can find hint coins throughout the game by tapping on places 
 they are hidden. 
  
  The puzzles themselves are greatly varied. Some are logic based. Some are math based. Some are 
 slide puzzles, while others are chess-themed. The game also loves to play around with the wording 
 on some of them in an attempt to trip you up. You get a great sense of accomplishment when you're 
 staring a puzzle and the solution reveals itself. The only downside is that a few puzzles tend 
 to be recycled a bit too frequently. 
  
  You're encouraged to poke around every place in St. Mystere, because you can find hidden puzzles 
 not normally given to you by the townsfolk or otherwise. If you end up missing puzzles after finising 
 a chapter, you can go back to a certain area later on and solve them at your leisure.
  
  Some puzzles will give you gizmos that you can collect and put together, while others will give 
 you puzzle pieces. You'll even find furniture from others that you place in your inn and try to 
 make sort a feng shui vibe going on for Layton and Luke. All this collecting eventually goes to 
 unlocking the game's more harder bonus puzzles.
  
  The touch screen interface of the DS suits the game perfectly. In the town, point on what you want 
 to examine, where you want to go or who you want to talk to. In puzzles, point to the answer, draw, 
 or write the answer in and the handwriting recognition software takes over. 
  
  The presentation of the game is absolutely charming. The story is told with anime-style FMV cutsenes. 
 The art and character design is wonderful, and the music suits the atmosphere of the game rather 
 well, although it does tend to get repetitious a bit too quickly. 
  
  Professor Layton and the Curious Village is another one of those unique games that really makes 
 the DS stand out. You're given a point and clicker that not only has great puzzles, but also an 
 intriguing story. For that alone, it's in your best interest to not let this title go unplayed. 
 It would be puzzling if you did. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Matdredalia
Rating: 10
Date: Sep 23, 2008 4:00 am PT
Review:  I was skeptical, at best, about Professor Layton when Nintendo started advertising for it. All 
 of the gaming blogs I read were super hyped about it, and everyone behaved as if it were the greatest 
 game ever released.
  
  However, I was an instant convert once I got my hands on it. After the first 10 puzzles or so, 
 I was completely submerged in St. Mystere, it's inhabitants, and the Professor's wit and charm. 
 I could not put it down until I had unlocked the mystery and had complete every last in-game puzzle. 
 
  
  Professor Layton is the perfect combination of "whodunit?" mystery novel, brain-teasing fun, and 
 Steampunk-Lite charm. It is, hands down, one of the best games ever released for the DS. It flows 
 together smoothly and keeps you craving just a little bit more from start to finish.
  
  Easily one of my favorite games ever, and one that everyone should try ta least once. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mckwek
Rating: 7
Date: Sep 16, 2008 5:12 am PT
Review:  I enjoyed playing this for sure, but I'm not sure if I should use the word 'game' to describe it. 
 Solving the riddles were fun, the film clips neat, the artwork very impressive for a game. But 
 I missed a real story line or the feeling that there was a real target I was working for. I solved 
 the riddles, collected the goodies, and that was that.
  
  After a while it's just the next riddle and then the next. Unlocking the extras is then a nice 
 accomplishment, but while those a certainly harder then the game, it didn't gave something special 
 either.
  
  My conclusion: fun to play 'in-between', but not something for really enjoy yourself hours with. 
 I haven't really checked out the downloads, but now I solved the mystery I'll doubt I will take 
 the effort to work through those. Perhaps... when I'm waiting for the bus or something. ^^ 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BloodyPirateSF
Rating: 10
Date: Sep 13, 2008 10:55 am PT
Review:  You want good characters? Professor Layton has them. You want good story? The Professor's got it. 
 Do you want awesome puzzles that will keep you thinking for hours? Yup, he's got that too.
  
  Basically, this game is amazing. It's actually my favorite Nintendo DS game so far. There are 
 AMAZING animated cut-scenes, which I have found myself watching over and over again as if it were 
 a saturday morning cartoon.
  
  The storyline is great, interesting characters, and a creepy skinny guy with purple lips that just 
 stands around a lake all day in front of the mansion. How much better does it get?
  
  BUY THIS GAME. Don't rent it, don't borrow it, BUY IT! RIGHT NOW! YOU HAVE TO! I'M TELLING YOU 
 NOW THAT YOUR LIFE WONT BE COMPLETE WITHOUT THIS GAME! Seriously, it's a masterpiece.
  
  So that's it, go now and play Professor Layton and the Curious Village. I'm going to sit here and 
 wait for the sequel to come out now. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: poisonedpawn
Rating: 7.5
Date: Sep 11, 2008 2:08 pm PT
Review:  My feelings towards Professor Layton and the Curious Village are a little mixed. On the whole it's 
 an enjoyable gaming experience and it makes excellent use of the DS, quite possibly better than 
 a few others in my collection that do a good job with the touchscreen like Elite Beat Agents and 
 Tetris DS.
  
  My main gripe with the game would probably be the manner in which the mandatory puzzles in the 
 game are revealed. The premise of the game has you in a town that loves puzzles, so much so that 
 (and I quote from the back of the box) "the townsfolk... lock their doors with sliding puzzles, 
 and hide their secrets in mazes". Unfortunately, the vast, vast majority of puzzles are very loosely 
 related to the progress you're attempting to make and are accessed simply by talking to characters. 
 I would have liked more puzzles that fit into the environment, much like those described. Unfortunately, 
 there are only a few such in the game.
  
  That having been said, most of the puzzles, are enjoyable and many are challenging. There were 
 a few that could have been described better, though. In fact one optional puzzle late in the game 
 was so oddly worded that I had no idea what I was even supposed to be doing.
  
  Another issue I had was with some of the hidden puzzles. A few were far too well-hidden and would 
 require that most people tap every pixel at every location. One I can recall was found in the middle 
 of a wall where no one would think to tap. Having to tap odd things like walls when there isn't 
 even the slightest hint that a puzzle may be hidden there isn't really fun. I ultimately resorted 
 to a walkthrough to find two of the puzzles that my fairly thorough searches didn't turn up.
  
  The story is ultimately disappointing, though moderately interesting at first. Without spoiling 
 anything, it uses a common story idea that anyone who's watched any sci-fi show is probably familiar 
 with. I can think of several instances where the same idea has been used before.
  
  Despite my complaints, there is still plenty to enjoy about the game. The use of the touchscreen 
 is excellent. The stylus is used just like the mouse was in old point-and-click adventure games. 
 Puzzles are all solved using the stylus either by moving things around, drawing, or writing letters 
 or numbers.
  
  The game has some very nice cutscenes which considering the extreme limitations of the DS cartridge 
 were quite impressive.
  
  There are also several unlockables that can only be accessed by solving certain puzzles and collecting 
 various objects which are then used in little minigames. With proper searching they're not too 
 difficult to find so the unlockables won't necessarily add much length to the game. The minigames 
 are relatively simple, and probably could have benefited from being a bit more challenging.
  
  Finally, you can download weekly puzzles on Nintendo Wi-Fi, which is a nice touch. It's too 
 bad the DS is only compatible with WEP routers and half the time my Nintendo Wi-Fi Connector doesn't 
 even work.
  
  Ultimately, Professor Layton and the Curious Village is a nice addition to my collection, and I 
 hope that in the planned sequel they can integrate the puzzles a little better. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Blockie123
Rating: 8.5
Date: Sep 4, 2008 4:58 pm PT
Review:  Quick Review: Puzzles... more puzzles... So many puzzles! This is a puzzle game! If you don't like 
 puzzles in a creative story do not buy this game! If you do, be prepared for a great game. With 
 a striking visual style and charming music, this game is golden for puzzle lovers. Here is the 
 breakdown:
  
  Graphics= 10/10
  Sound= 9.5/10
  Game play= 9.5/10
  Replay Value= low
  Length= Pretty short
  
  More info: This game is pretty short but you can download weekly puzzles 
 from the Wi-Fi service. The puzzles work great and are varying in difficulty. A great game that 
 lacks depth! This game has bad replay value because you remember all the puzzle answers! The sheer 
 number of puzzles will keep you busy, but not for too long. Hopefully the sequel will be released 
 here and will come from Japan.
  -Blockiereviews 
::::::

::::::
UserName: raph622
Rating: 10
Date: Aug 22, 2008 11:33 am PT
Review:  a game that will make you the best puzzle solver in the not so small village of St. Mystere that 
 is very curious and full of very crazy people. with all of the totally different puzzles, this 
 game still has a full story. this will be keeping everyone solving puzzles for a long time. in 
 my opinion this is a perfect game that never stays the same. and all that people say about the 
 game that is bad is that the music, i think that it is just as repetitive as the music say from 
 the first legend of zelda, but i think that this is very well performed music and it is good to 
 have the same music so it stops distracting, and it saves space for the rest of the game. with 
 this game you can get some more amazing puzzles as if they were already in the game. if this game 
 somehow is not remembered for its very big collection of very difficult to simpler puzzles, then 
 it will be the first in a collection of new games with layton in it or have the same sort of puzzles, 
 or a game that will be evan better filled with lots and lots of more puzzles. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: macthehero
Rating: 10
Date: Aug 21, 2008 8:55 pm PT
Review:  Once I picked this game up I could not stop playing it. Even now it taunts me with its weekly updates. 
 Driving me back to playing it until the sequel comes out. If you like puzzles and the stories of 
 Japan RPGs, I recommend this for you. Its cute, its funny, its brain a fart and I mean that in 
 a good way.
  As you play the difficulty of the puzzles slowly grows, I found my self using the tokens to unlock 
 clues more often the later it progressed, but even so I still had an ample supply of them at the 
 end of the game. So don't be afraid to use them, just don't go nuts and make sure you have the 
 dog to help find more.
  The in-game animations are well done, the format of the DS doesn't quite do it justice but it almost 
 makes you wish it was a series or movie. Being something on par with "The Triplets of Belleville" 
 except no being harassment of Americans by the French. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ghostofluigi
Rating: 10
Date: Aug 15, 2008 12:03 pm PT
Review:  This game introduced me to brain-solving video games. It made my head twist into so many ways that 
 I got the biggest headache after playing it. This game is the best DS game I have played ever! Voice-Acting 
 was terrific. Music was good and the control scheme was great. Graphics were some of the best graphics 
 I have ever seen. My favorite part of the game were , of course, the puzzles. These puzzles would 
 put any brain to the test. The awnsers at the end though were somehow so obvious and I always thought 
 "Why didn't I think of that?'Storyline deserves an A+ because the twist in the end made the game 
 even more perfect then it already was. The online puzzles were also challenging and fun. The reason 
 why I gave this game a perfect 10 is becuase everything was so neat and the way they narrated the 
 story was just mind-blowing. I don't know why gamespot didn't like the music because I though it 
 was very well composed. To conclude, If you don't buy Professor Layton, you are missing out. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: necronaux
Rating: 8.5
Date: Aug 11, 2008 11:06 am PT
Review:  Professor Layton and the Curious Village is a Sherlock Holmes type detective story. You play as 
 Prof. Layton and his assistant, Luke. Some call the game itself an additional puzzle, but the game 
 is more of a device, or at least, a fun way to present the puzzles. Although the game is fairly 
 free-roam (you can basically go anywhere and talk to anyone at any time) , there are some specific 
 things you are forced to do before the game advances. As the story continues you'll have 10 different 
 quests / mysteries to solve. They present themselves, and basically solve themselves, just by playing 
 the game. There are only 2 decision points in the game where you're forced to an either or choice, 
 but even then, you're guided to the right one.
  
  Unravel the villager's mysteries by solving brainteasers. They come in the form of riddles, mazes, 
 math equations, spot-the-differences, perspective, and sliding puzzles to categorize a few. Difficulties 
 range from real simple, to 'ouch-I-hurt-my-brain.' Although it's all subjective what is easy to 
 one person, might be impossible to someone else (darn that left-brain / right-brain thing) . Each 
 is rated in difficulty by the number of Picarats (a point system for the game) . The higher the 
 Picarats, the more difficult. Solve the puzzles to collect Picarats and if you get stuck on any 
 puzzle, you can 'spend' your Picarats to purchase hints to help solve the puzzles. Most puzzles 
 have 3 hints available. If you missed some puzzles, you can check Granny Middleton's Shack that 
 will give you a chance to complete these puzzles without traipsing through the game again.
  
  So, the story basically: The wealthy baron of the village St. Mystere has passed away. The 
 family contacts Prof. Layton to investigate his last will and testament. The "Golden Apple" is 
 the key to solving the mystery. It's up to the professor and his trusty sidekick (assistant, protg, 
 and friend) , Luke, to explore the village, talk to all the villagers, and uncover the secrets St. 
 Mystere has to offer. There is definitely something strange going on, and it appears you're being 
 followed. Talk to everyone and click on everything. Talk to the same people multiple times, they 
 may have another puzzle ready, or they may tell you to get back to them later. Click on the obvious 
 (a lamp, a barrel, etc.) or the not so obvious (randomly on a wall, in the street, etc.) . Hidden 
 puzzles and gold coins are every where (I still don't know what the gold coins are used for) .
 
  
  There are 120 puzzles throughout the game with another 15 that can be unlocked. As you complete 
 puzzles, some of the villagers will give you prizes. Collecting these gifts will help unlock the 
 additional puzzles. There is a Portrait that was cut into pieces; you need to assemble the painting 
 to its original state to obtain the Art Lover's Puzzles. There's Gizmo the mechanical dog; assemble 
 him, not only will he help you find hidden puzzles and coins, you'll unlock the Inventor's House 
 Puzzles. With the furniture you receive, arrange Layton's and Luke's hotel room so they're both 
 happy; you'll unlock the Decorator's House Puzzles. Finnish the game and receive The Golden Apple 
 Puzzles. Complete all 120 regular and 12 unlockable puzzles, and you'll receive the final 3 Puzzle 
 Master's House Puzzles.
  
  There are other unlockables that include, movies, voice work, music, artwork / character profiles. 
 There is one "Top Secret" item that can only be unlocked with a special password that will only 
 be available when the sequel game is released. Don't try to guess, it is dependent on a combination 
 of the new game, and your DS (i. e. unique to you alone) .
  
  There are also downloadable weekly puzzles via Nintendo's wi-fi service. I believe the Japanese 
 version had a year's worth (52 different puzzles) of downloadable content. The US downloads started 
 in February 2008 and are stored, so if you mss downloading a couple weeks, they'll still be there 
 and automatically download the next time you log on.
  
  I can hardly wait for the nest version. I've heard part 2 is already out in Japan with 3 on the 
 way.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: dcunitedfan3
Rating: 9.5
Date: Aug 3, 2008 9:03 am PT
Review:  This game is everything I wanted from when I bought it and more. When I first saw it in the stores 
 I thought "no way am I ever gonna get that game." from the drawings of the people but boy was I 
 wrong. In the game you can walk around town and talk to people while solving puzzles, if you solve 
 them then you might get a painting scrap, a piece of furniture (which at the end can give you even 
 more puzzles) or even get a clue to reaching the next part of the game. This game will draw in 
 all puzzle lovers and mystery lovers alike. The best part though is how it isn't just a compilation 
 of puzzles (such as big brain academy) but rather a story in which you go to people that give you 
 puzzles when you talk to them. Great game only bad points are the music and that the replay has 
 no value (because you already know the answers to the puzzles) but other than that great game all 
 around even though you would think that the graphics are horrible at a first glance they really 
 start to grow on you. When you finish the game it all comes together eventually and you start to 
 form predictions that change as the story progresses making it even more realistic. Definatly everything 
 I read in the previews and reviews and more, it was worth buying and will be a classic in years 
 to come. 
  (This is my second game review) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: wiredscotty
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jul 13, 2008 1:51 pm PT
Review:  "Professor Layton and the Curious Village" is an adorable little puzzle game. Now, let me get this 
 out of the way first.... I am a person that is commonly referred to as "a stupid". I'm dumb. I'm 
 not bright. So please read this review keeping that in mind. 
  
  Having said that, I hate puzzles in general. They frustrate me to no end. Using my brain muscles 
 hurts because I no use me brain muscles very much so. So brain teasers will usually bring me to 
 tears. Now, having said THAT, let me say this.... I loved this game.
  
  I really did!! And I know what you're thinking. "Oh, wiredscotty loved a puzzle game, I guess it 
 wasn't any harder than tying your shoelaces". NOT TRUE!
  While I do have difficulty with the whole  routine, this game is 
 enjoyably hard! It's Crazy hard. So hard that I was pounding my fists on whatever was in my vicinity 
 at the time (which was usually my desk, my leg, or my cat) . But I still managed to enjoy myself. 
 
  
  The game is set up brilliantly. In "Captain Conundrum and the Convoluted Forest", you start out 
 with a charming couple of characters, who enter a charming town and eventually work on solving 
 a charming mystery. The game has a charming way of getting you through the charming story while 
 solving charming... and frustratingly awesome... puzzles.
  
  It's a town that loves puzzles... so there's your opening. But despite the obvious plot device, 
 it blends puzzles and story so well that it doesn't feel like a puzzle game. It feels like fun. 
 
  
  In "Professor Pompadore and the Well of Lies", the puzzles are varied and range from "I can do 
 this" to "THIS IS FRIGGIN IMPOSSIBLE!!!!" Rarely do you run across a puzzle that sucks because 
 they didn't explain it properly (just one or two of those that will make you grind your teeth into 
 powder) . Most of the puzzles are really smart and clever, and will make you feel incredibly stupid 
 at their power as you look at hints you earn and realize how simple the answer really was.
  
  Plus, after you solve every puzzle, you feel accomplished, and as you solve the chapters in 
 the story, you are rewarded with absolutely stunning animated cutscenes with some of the greatest 
 character designs I've ever seen in a game. 
  
  So, if you love or hate puzzle games, you should still pick-up "Layton Feyhoffer and the Town of 
 crazy puzzle people". Trust me, whether you are a 30 year old trying to finish the 3rd grade, or 
 a man with a brain so great that you can move planets just by thinking about it.... you'll find 
 an enjoyable challenge in this game. 
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: edubuccaneer
Rating: 9
Date: Jul 11, 2008 1:53 pm PT
Review:  Despite its looks, Professor Layton and the Curious Village is far from being a game just for kids. 
 Developed by Level-5, the studio behind Dragon Quest VIII and Dark Cloud, it combines two brain 
 twisting genres into an unique title on the Nintendo DS. 
  
  The story begins when Professor Layton, a puzzle fanatic and part time detective, and his side 
 kick, Luke, receive a message from Lady Dhalia, a rich widow in search of a lost valuable memento 
 left by her late husband, called the Golden Apple. Before even setting foot in St. Mystrie, the 
 tone of the game reveals itself, throwing a puzzle the player's way in order to discover the actual 
 location of the village. Along the way to solve the Golden Apple and the many other mysteries found 
 in St. Mystrie, the villagers present brainteasers that sometimes lead to clues when solved. Upon 
 exploration of the environment, more puzzles can be discovered, amassing to around 150 puzzles 
 total. However, only a fraction of these has to be solved in order to complete the game's story. 
 
  
  The puzzles themselves range from all kinds of problems, mixing mathematically heavy enigmas, simple 
 jigsaw puzzles and even Tetris-like block pushers. For each of these, a certain amount of piccarats, 
 the game's currency, is awarded. These are used to acquire the many bonuses locked up in the bonus 
 menu found outside the story mode, and range from a variety of puzzles. There is no time limit 
 to solving the problems presented, but for each wrong answer, a certain amount of piccarats is 
 taken away. However, they are never completely zeroed out, stopping at a certain minimum number 
 available to earn. Tips can also be used at the cost of hint coins, which can be found through 
 good, old fashioned, pixel hunting of the village's backgrounds, in the form of stylus tapping. 
 Even though there are lots of possibilities to get help, the puzzles are no push overs, and often 
 provide interesting challenges that require an "outside the box" method of thinking. These were 
 created with the help of Chiba University's Professor Akira Tago, which is a known Japanese puzzle 
 creator, author of many books in the subject.
  
  Artistically, Professor Layton and the Curious Village has high production values. The visual style 
 is influenced by European art, with a color palette and character design that is clearly based 
 on The Triplets of Belleville. No two characters look alike, all with their own spirit and personality 
 brought by a simple, yet charismatic line of drawing. The story moves in the form of dialog bubbles 
 with character stills similar to the Phoenix Wright games, but important elements are presented 
 through fully animated cut scenes, with voice acting. The overall quality of the presentation is 
 very, very high, which provides are great deal of the immersion, sharing space with the main objective 
 of the game, that is, presenting increasingly challenging puzzles. Controls rely on the DS touch 
 screen almost completely, and are precise up to a certain limit of the screen sensitivity space.
 
  
  Professor Layton and the Curious Village will provide a drawn out experience to the casual DS player, 
 with around ten hours in the main story mode, with even more challenges after its completion. Bonus 
 sections open up after the story closes, and the puzzles that were missed during play through can 
 be solved by going to a sort of puzzle house located in the village. Also, there are special puzzle 
 rooms that can be unlocked by collecting pieces of furniture, a painting and a robotic creature, 
 given by specific puzzles found in St. Mystrie. More puzzles also be obtained through the DS' 
 wireless connection, as weekly additions make their way to your personal collection. The occasionally 
 head scratching and random pixel hunt might turn some more impatient players away, but for those 
 looking for an intelligent and unique adventure game for their DS, their is no need to look much 
 further. 
  
  Just knock on the Professor's door. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Peach100
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jul 10, 2008 4:05 pm PT
Review:  I enjoyed this game immensely. I liked the animated voices when the characters talk as well as 
 the mini videos here and there.
  
  I enjoyed playing the puzzles even though here and there a puzzle popped up that just turned into 
 a guessing game after a while.
  
  The story-line of the game was good, as well as funny in some parts, considering the fact that 
 the game was based mostly on players solving puzzles.
  
  Some of the puzzles are really brain-teasers, and those, naturally, were the ones I enjoyed making 
 me want to re-play the game over and over again.
  
  The only problem that I've seen... or heard rather, is the music. It's repetitive. It's the same 
 music over, and over, and over. It gets irritating to the point where you might have to turn your 
 DS' sound down. But that's a minor problem.
  
  Wi-Fi doesn't include any real people it does include the cool option of downloading new puzzles 
 every week.
  
  I've been downloading puzzles ever since the game came out and, with some exceptions, most every 
 one of them are different.
  
  I would definitely recommend this game to a child as well as an elder. People of all ages would 
 enjoy this game.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: WhiteTigerX
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jul 9, 2008 2:58 am PT
Review:  So i was kinda boring and i decided to play something interesting, and I saw some good reviews, 
 so Let's give it a go.
  When i started I became amazed by the cinematics, the sound, and the storyline. Everything is just 
 perfect and fits the game.
  After a little of history, and understanding the characters jobs, we can think as:
  Professor 
 Layton - Sherlock Holmes
  Luke - Luke is an apprentice of Profesor Layton, a Young Kid.
  
  As i was playing the game, the puzzles got thougher and thougher, which is good.
  
  This 
 game Is also very very addictive, I now, whenever I have a small time , lunch break, whatever, 
 i play this, I must finish all the puzzles, this is very good!
  
  Gameplay -  I actually liked the gameplay, using the stylus for answering, writing letters, altho 
 there was a little problem, you can't write let go , and write, so a T you can't draw | and then 
 - , it won't work, and it will consider it as an L or an i , I also liked the way to find the puzzles, 
 tapping "suspicious" items, and they might give you Puzzles and Hint Coins.
  
  Graphics: Oh well, this are very good graphics, and it even has cinematics, which are also great! 
 Sound: Altho characters speak at the cinematics, it's good to hear their voices, but when it's 
 an usual talk or puzzle explaining, or jut a man on the street, if we talk it just appears the 
 text, they should always speak, the voice acting is very good. And the Music i also good, and always 
 fits the theme if it is a dark castle, it's a creepy song, or a happy if we are in some rainbow 
 country. =) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rockerking9
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jul 8, 2008 8:27 pm PT
Review:  Yes, Finally, one good puzzle game that really sucks you in with the story and plot line, but also 
 through some pretty tough puzzles. If the fact that the puzzles are really fun it will be the raw 
 story line. You will be surprised by the story line if you think you've seen a twisting plot than 
 you have not seen anything like Professor Layton and The Curious Village. You might get so confused 
 that you will have to put your Nintendo DS on sleep mode and think about the story.
  This is one of the better Nintendo DS games that have been made, and the fact that you can download 
 puzzles off Nintendo DS Wi-Fi. This may look like a stupid game , but it may be the most underrated 
 game in the video gaming industry.
  But, the puzzle can get pretty tough in the end of the story becasue it is THE END OF THE WEIRDIEST 
 STORY YOU HAVE EVER SET YOUR EYES ON! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sandpiper121PP
Rating: 10
Date: Jul 5, 2008 9:11 am PT
Review:  Professor Layton & the Curious Village was a game that I had never heard about when I first purchased 
 my Nintendo DS Lite. It was recommended to me by a good friend and let me tell you this... if you 
 are a person who loves puzzles combined with a great story and awesome graphics... then you owe 
 it to yourself to purchase this game!
  
  First of all... the storyline. This game has a great storyline that will keep you wanting more 
 and more as the story unfolds. You control Professor Layton and his young apprentic Luke as they 
 travel thru a small village trying to solve a mystery for one of the local residents. As you make 
 your journey from shop to shop and person to person... you will be asked to solve puzzles... in 
 which if you are successful... the story will unfold before you. Between the puzzles and the investigation 
 mystery... this game will keep you comming back for more. In fact I found it very hard not to want 
 to play this game everyday after I started... it is simply that good!
  
  The graphics... WOW! For being a Nintendo DS Lite game... one would probably not think that the 
 graphics would be that awesome... think again! The graphics remind me of the old shows I watched 
 when I was young. Rikki Tikki Tavi, Jungle Book, but with even a better look to them! The artists 
 spared nothing in making this game and mind you it is a very large game. There are many scenes 
 that had to be drawn (backgrounds and objects to interact with) that make up the graphics in this 
 game. I was just so impressed by the quality of them and know others would be as well. There is 
 also quite a few mini-movie cut scenes and those as well are just so impressive. When one happened 
 I felt like I was at the movies because the quality is just that good. Those were in fact my most 
 favorite parts of the graphics. It just amazed me that they could put all of this into one tiny 
 little cartrige on this game system.
  
  The puzzles were alot of fun as well. Some of them were very easy for me... but I do like to do 
 puzzles alot. Some were quite difficult to solve. As you play the game... you can obtain hint coins. 
 These become very useful on puzzles that are super tough. If you get stuck on a puzzle you can 
 use up to 3 hint coins on each puzzle to obtain 3 hints to help you solve it. The hints are not 
 a direct solve either... but are quite useful. The only thing is that there is 135 puzzles in the 
 game and only 200 hint coins avaliable for use (if you can find them all, being they are hidden) 
 so you have to choose to use them wisely! You also get points or as they call them in the game 
 Picarats for solving each puzzle. You can tell just how difficult the puzzle will be by how many 
 Picarats it is worth. If you are unsuccessful at the puzzle the first time... you will then be 
 given another try (well over and over until you get it) but the amount of picarats it is worth 
 will drop. Picarats are your overall score for the game so if you are like me you like to obtain 
 the highest you can get.
  
  The sound in this game is so very nice as well. They have music that plays as you travel thru the 
 town to keep the mood going. I found it quite pleasant to the overall feel for the game. The mini-movies 
 also had great sound to them just like you were watching an actual movie. I really did like the 
 voice acting as well. There is not alot of it but for the amount they had in the game it was very 
 well done. The only time I didn't care for the music was when I was solving a puzzle. I found it 
 to be somewhat of a distraction to me so I would just turn the sound down. Aside from that... it 
 was very well done.
  
  Also there is a Wi-Fi connection thru the cartridge to let you download additional weekly puzzles 
 so the game just keeps getting better! I usually look for the Wi-Fi logo on all my Nintendo DS 
 Lite games that I purchase because of the bonuses that you can get from having that.
  
  In conclusion... this game is worth every penny it cost and more. It is avaliable for $29.95 at 
 most stores but I really feel that it was worth so much more being it has so much to offer. Great 
 storyline along with awesome graphics and sound and then the puzzles to keep you occupied for hours... 
 this game just is #1 in my book. This game also has probably one of the best replay values in my 
 opinion! If you are a puzzle lover... this game is a must purchase! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: JonhMan
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jul 4, 2008 12:22 pm PT
Review:  When I first picked up this game at Game Stop (yes I actually bought something there, but I had 
 a 20% off coupon) I knew it was going to be a good game, but this game is THE best puzzle game 
 that I have ever played. It features a good story coupled with more than a hundred puzzles. 
  
  The game play is flawless with you using your touch screen and stylus to solve the different 
 puzzles. It also plays like a point and click adventure with you clicking on objects to interact 
 with them or clicking on a person to talk with them. This system works really well with how the 
 game plays and is executed flawlessly. 
  
  The puzzles are equally well placed, but they can be tricky at times. Sometimes you'll want to 
 beat yourself up because of how obvious the answer was. Nonetheless the puzzles are fun and interesting 
 and never get boring, if not too hard sometimes. Even if the puzzles get too hard, you can always 
 use a hint coin to get a hint (hence the name "hint coin") for the puzzle, but be conservative 
 when using the coins because there's a only a limited amount in the game. It is also quite a long 
 game with tons of puzzles and even more weekly downloadable puzzles if the main game didn't quench 
 your thirst for mind riddles. 
  
  The only gripe I have with the game is the same with most people: The stupid accordion music gets 
 old really quickly, and might even force you to mute the DS so you can think through the game!
 
  
  Besides the music, ever other part of the game is awesome. It is highly addictive game that is 
 fun and makes you think. Yes, video games can make you think, and are fun at the same time. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kelpsyberry
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jul 2, 2008 1:00 pm PT
Review:  Professor Layton and the Curious Village is an example for all game makers to follow; even if they 
 aren't making puzzle or adventure games. This game has the perfect mix of puzzles and plot. The 
 plot- about a 'puzzle master' (Layton) and his apprentice, Luke, arriving at a mysterious town 
 to track down a supposed treasure that no one can find- is quite possibly the best I've ever encountered, 
 and I've played a lot of games. The professor and the apprentice solve puzzle after puzzle to find 
 the mysterious "Golden Apple". The puzzles range from extremely easy to extremely hard, and I got 
 stuck at one point in the game, but that's trivial. 
  
  There are also many other bonuses in the game, as well. When you complete puzzles, you get some 
 bonuses, like peices of furniture for Layton's or Luke's room at the inn, or scraps of paper that 
 you eventually complete like a jigsaw puzzle, and peices of machinery that you put together. Collecting 
 and utilising these bonuses are fun in themselves, but if you collect all of them and use them 
 in the right way, you get bonuses on the menu screen, which are mainly bonus puzzles.
  
  There's also online capabilities for this game. The developers, every Sunday, send out a bonus 
 puzzle. This is a great feature, and keeps you coming back to the game, even after you've beaten 
 it (which is a grand task in itself) .
  
  All in all, this game is an automatic recommendation, if you can stand a few difficult puzzles. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: WingsofAdamant
Rating: 9
Date: Jun 25, 2008 11:01 pm PT
Review:  With the release of the DS came the deluge of games that were just virtual copies of the puzzles 
 you get in the grocery store checkout line. You know what I mean, crosswords, M. C. Escher-esque 
 visual puzzles, and critical thinking puzzles. Up until I played Professor Layton and the Curious 
 Village, I considered the purchasing of "grocery store" games to only regress my credibility amongst 
 all in nerddom. I mean, why spend 20 to 30 bucks for something you can get for a dollar at any 
 grocery store or gas station? Granted, the idea was always intriguing, especially to a nerd who's 
 been gaming even before he could ride a bike or tie his shoes. The "grocery store" game genre is 
 very saturated, they plague every bargain bin at any store that carries video games, depriving 
 lesser known, more fulfilling games from making it to mainstream shelves. Hell, I was recently 
 in a gas station in Kentucky and they were selling 3 DS brain teaser games for 5 bucks. It just 
 seems like a steadily dying market, not only this genre of games, but casual gaming in general. 
 I mean, it's stupid for companies to whole-heartedly put their interests in the casual market, 
 because that's an audience that's a lot easier to satisfy. There's no guarantee that they'll come 
 back for more. The casual market has to evolve to a certain degree to captivate their audience, 
 so they see that there's more to this whole video game thing.
  
  Which brings me back to Level 5's Professor Layton and the Curious Village. At it's core, it's 
 very much like those "grocery store" games, but it does more than enough to keep it from being 
 put down and left to fester at the bottom of the bargain bin. As I played through it, I didn't 
 feel paranoid that my friends would burst into my room and berate me for going soft, and force 
 me into some embarrassing little cocktail dress, and dump glitter on my fat, crying mass of a body. 
 In fact, it reinvigorated my love for puzzle games. Seriously now, when I think about how many 
 Bejeweled-esque puzzle games there are out there I can't help but become upset. It's infuriating 
 as to the multitude of them. 
  
  Though the puzzles range in difficulty there really wasn't a time where I found myself cringing 
 with frustrationokay that's a lie, but that just makes it all the more satisfying when you do 
 succeed. A lot of the puzzles I don't think would work any better than they do on the DS, since 
 you can try different formulas and patterns hopefully finding the answer, and possibly helping 
 you realize how stupid you really are.
  
  Now something that you never see in puzzle games is a good story. A good story in a puzzle game 
 is like Bill O'Reilly giving an apologetic handjob to any of the left-winged punching bags he has 
 on his show. To say the least, the story is quite touching. I did find it rather odd for an entire 
 village to have such a peculiarly ardent fascination with puzzles. So, upon realizing why they 
 did, it just leaves a warm, fuzzy feeling, regardless of fantastic and extravagant it may be. Two 
 thoughts arose in regards to the story. One, seemingly outlandish and preposterous story elements 
 and/or the story in general are big pluses in my book. It's fun for me to analyze the imagery and 
 story the developers give me. For, the analysis of any game can lead to further investigation and 
 possibly even personal growth. Like, as an example if you were to play Bioshock, you realize Andrew 
 Ryan's ideals are reminiscent of Ayn Rand, the Russian novelist famous for her objectivist views, 
 both very thought provoking and controversial. That's the biggest benefit for me, the motives, 
 backgrounds, or just the names of characters usually have real world origins, and let the learning 
 begin. Oh yeah, before I ramble, a decently developed story in a puzzle game is a godsend, and 
 Level 5 outdoes my expectations.
  
  To act as the savory cherry on top of this good ole' fattening sundae, there's downloadable puzzles 
 through the Nintendo WiFi, so there's really no reason for anyone to not have this game. If you 
 read this review, and still are not convinced, stick your head in a microwave. Well don't, but 
 seriously don't do yourself the injustice.
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: 8smokes
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jun 21, 2008 10:32 am PT
Review:  Over the past years, there have been many great games out on the market. We had Call of Duty 4 
 from Infinaty Ward, GTA 4 from Rockstar, Super Mario Galaxy from Nintendo, and the list just goes 
 on, and on. But nothing has truly made an indent on expressing creativity quite like Professor 
 Layton and the Curious Village. The game opens up in a very detailed, graphically inhanced cut-scene. 
 And on the DS, this is pretty amazing to see. The game really shows the true capabilities of Nintendo's 
 DS. Anyway, the cut-scene shows Professor Layton and his young apprentice Luke reading a note they 
 got from St. Mystere. The note describes of a treasure that the Baron Raynold has hidden after his 
 death. Many have tried to find it, but none have succeed. Of course, the witty professor wants 
 to have his go and trying to solve all the mysterious puzzles and riddles around the Golden Apple, 
 as the treasure is called. Professor Layton is truly a unique game because it combines all the 
 elements of mystery, adventure, point-and-click, and creative thinking all in to a portable gaming 
 system. The games construction contributes to most of the fun. Guarenteed, you will being saying 
 to yourself, "Wow, honestly, who could have thought the DS could display capabilities like this?". 
 Many of the places shown on the St. Mystere mini-map can be explored, which adds to the adventure. 
 The witty music, and great artwork will really keep you glued to the screen. If you stay strictly 
 on the 10 mystery storyline, you'll get about 10 hours of gameplay. But of course, most of the 
 fun is looking for hidden puzzles and coins around St. Mystere. There are 2 mini games that will 
 help you in wanting to achieve the goal of completeing all the puzzles in the game. Aside from 
 the 120 or so puzzles included with the game, you have an Inn mini game, in which some puzzles 
 upon completion, will give you furniture, in which you can then customize Layton's and Luke's room 
 which is quite fun. Also, there is a painting-puzzle mini-game, in which some puzzles will give 
 you pieces torn off of a painting and you must assemble them in to one painting. Both the mini-games 
 offer a cool suprise upon their completion. This game soley deserves a 9.5, for its creative use 
 in combining various genres of games into one very entertaining mystery one. And as the game suggest, 
 St. Mystere is a Very mysterious, and Curious village. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mjcowley
Rating: 9
Date: Jun 21, 2008 4:30 am PT
Review:  My initial impression, that is the impression before I actually started to play the game, was that 
 Professor Layton and the Curious Village was another mini game compilation. I was very wrong. This 
 game strikes the perfect balance between story game and puzzle game. 
  
  Excluding downloadable and unlockable puzzles there are 120 you'll encounter through the game. 
 I'm happy to say upon reaching the end I knocked over 118 (without assistance as well!) I better 
 go back and find the 2 I missed. Completing a challenging puzzle is very satisfying. You'll receive 
 points for every completed puzzle, the harder it is the more points you'll obtain. If you are having 
 a little difficulty on a puzzle you can unlock hints using magic coins you find scattered around 
 the village. The first tip is generally a little nudge to get you going, whereas the second and 
 third may give you some critical info which usually leads to solving quite easily. Despite this 
 I don't believe you will need to use them to often. I only found about 5 real tough ones in the 
 game and they are usually solved by continuous trial and error.
  
  The story is simply riveting with some nice twists along the way. The primary reason you want to 
 keep battling these puzzles is to find out what happens next. I won't give you a single detail 
 of the story here as I recommend you experience it completely yourself in game. 
  This is a gem of a game and one you'll leave in the DS until completed. I highly recommend you 
 grab it before the sequel arrives.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: amozarte
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jun 8, 2008 6:10 pm PT
Review:  There is no shortage of mini-game collections these days, and while Professor Layton's core game 
 mechanic is solving puzzles, it is far from just another puzzle game.
  
  The game takes place in a little village called St. Mystere, where the town's patriarch has passed 
 away and the famous Professor Layton, along with his side-kick, Luke, must help the townspeople 
 solve the mystery of the man's inheritance. Things aren't what they seem, though, and in no time 
 Layton and Luke are up to their ears in drama and intrigue.
  
  As you search the town for clues, you must solve a myriad of puzzles ranging from simple number 
 games to logic tests that will have your grey matter crying uncle. In addition to the main "campaign" 
 there are several side quests. Completing the side missions grants you rewards like a mechanical 
 puppy that sniffs out hidden treasures.
  
  Although you might expect the puzzles to take centre stage here, the story and its characters have 
 so much charm that you will likely find yourself working out "one more puzzle" just to get to the 
 next leg of the adventure. On the other hand, the game also works well when you just need to kill 
 five or six minutes.
  
  The game also does a great job of using a variety of touch controls to keep things fresh. You will 
 point and click your way through St. Mystere, spell out answers, and draw solutions.
  
  Unfortunately, I can't go into too much more detail without either spoiling the plot or the puzzles 
 but suffice it to say that Professor Layton is a must-have for both puzzle and mystery lovers. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Starlette
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 5, 2008 4:54 pm PT
Review:  Professor Layton is highly addictive and oooh so fun to play. The puzzles ranged from easy to quite 
 challenging. But once you got the right answer you felt like you cracked a secret code that only 
 you knew existed. Who knew so many puzzles existed in the world! And to think there will be a second, 
 and possibly third one in the series is amazing! I really loved the graphics of the game it was 
 simple yet quite appealing... in a artsy sort of way. I enjoyed the music , because I think it 
 worked really well with the game and how it related to the story. I also thought it was pretty 
 cool that nintendo decided to make this game Wi-Fi... it really makes the game worth the money 
 and more because you get to continue playing even after you have completed all 135 puzzles! Professor 
 Layton & the Curious Village is a good and long game. I did not feel at any point in the game that 
 I wished it was over... nor thought that it was too short a gaming experience. 
  The only downer to this game is that you can't erase profiles that you created by mistake, (or maybe 
 you can... but I haven't found a way) but otherwise I would highly recommend this game to anyone 
 one! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DS-Crazy
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 2, 2008 12:14 pm PT
Review:  Okay so to put it bluntly, this game is not for the faint of heart, so to speak. It probably is 
 my favorite game of all time, actually, but in order to snag the most out of this game, you definitely 
 need an analytical mind and a butt-load of patience.
  
  Professor Layton is packed with over 120 crazy puzzles that will seriously... puzzle you... this 
 game will surely keep you guessing. The story-line is absolutely SUPERB in that it follows two 
 lovable characters (Professor Hershel Layton himself, and his adorable little apprentice, Luke) 
 that will definitely grow on you as they embark on mysterious quest to find a hidden 'treasure' 
 left behind. The story takes place in one little town, which really holds a lot more that you would 
 expect.
  
  The way the game is set up, you sort of follow the story, which is a huge sequence of events involving 
 strictly the few inhabitants of the town. You are presented with once mystery after another, which 
 ultimately point to one greater mystery. Much of the game involves talking sequences or videos, 
 but the story is filled with so much suspense that the conversations will never get boring. All 
 the characters are so unique and interesting that it's entertaining enough in itself. Not to mention, 
 Luke has SUCH a darling British accent xD xD 
  
  The sequence of events involves shady figures, mysterious happenings and disapearences, one huge 
 tower of which no one will talk about but everyone fears, and you guessed it, a sudden murder. 
 MUAHAHAHAHA... But don't worry, there's nothing *too* frightening, haha. None-the-less, this game 
 is still crazy-addicting and completely amazing for anyone who loves to think.
  
  The puzzles are the majority of the game's content and vary immensely. Some are riddles, some are 
 plays on words, some are optical illusions, and some are just good old fashioned sliding or ball-and-hole 
 puzzles. Some may seem like they involve a bit too much math and you may be tempted to bust out 
 your old trigonometry book, but every single puzzle actually has a simple solution that you will 
 be kicking yourself later for not being able to figure out. Even if a puzzle does seem way too 
 hard, there are hidden coins that you find throughout the town that can be used to buy hints, and 
 the hints are actually merciful enough that you can usually figure out the puzzle once you've taken 
 their advice. 
  
  Some of the puzzles have to do with something directly related to your game progress, such as getting 
 a gate open or deciphering a sign. But most are actually offered by a townsperson that you are 
 fishing for information. It may seem kind of far-fetched that every single person has all these 
 puzzles to offer you all the time, but it will begin to make sense once you solve the overall mystery. 
 
  
  
  That's all I can tell you, as I don't want to give the whole thing away. But more likely than not, 
 you can be sure that Professor Layton will have you begging for more. Fortunately, brand new puzzles 
 are available weekly through Wi-FI (AWESOME!) for those of us who really can't get enough!! Even 
 better yet, when you finish the game, they hint at a sequel that should be coming out some time 
 this year. There is even a small bonus section in the first game where you enter a code that can 
 apparently be found in the second game, and it supposedly tells an untold part of the previous 
 story. Pretty spiffey, eh? So in other words, having all this been said... GO OUT AND BUY THIS 
 GAME!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: s0njas0n
Rating: 9
Date: May 27, 2008 9:53 am PT
Review:  Layton and his apprentice, Luke, are hired to solve a puzzle whose answer would supply the solver 
 with the whereabouts of a late wealthy estate owner's treasure. Yet, while following the initial 
 puzzle trail, it becomes obvious that finding the treasure wasn't going to be as easy as originally 
 anticipated.
  
  Throughout the village are numerous puzzle-loving NPCs that test your wits in order to obtain clues 
 needed to solve the mystery of the golden apple. Using hint coins that are found along the way 
 can provide you with up to 3 clues for those particularly difficult puzzles. Be warned, the answer 
 is not always what it seems.
  
  Many puzzles are reminiscent of psychological brain teasers and Otis-Lennon school ability tests 
 which require you to complete picture sequences and creating mental 3D models with flattened images. 
 Other puzzles include math word problems and brain teasers. While even others simply require you 
 move pieces in the right order to complete them. 
  
  It is possible to get through most of the game guessing your way through, but most of the satisfaction 
 you will receive from Professor Layton is from knowing you solved a difficult problem. And while 
 the tale in itself is intriguing, the bonus puzzles will keep you coming back. After completing 
 the main story, more puzzles are unlocked in a bonus section for a total of 150 puzzles. Also, 
 there is a puzzle released every week to download via wi-fi every Monday so this game can be enjoyed 
 for months to come. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: zikimaru88
Rating: 9.5
Date: May 26, 2008 8:16 pm PT
Review:  I had my doubts before buying this game because i thought i shouldnt waste $35 on a game thats 
 all about puzzles. Well now im very glad i bought it. Not only are the puzzles hard, but theres 
 like 150 of them or something like that. Excellent game and i recommend it to anyone.
  
  
  
  The Good: Great, Fun, hard puzzles that youll be playing more than once-Cool bonus content-Great 
 Story with many twists and turns that it will make your head spin-Cutscenes are beautiful, its 
 just like watching an anime film, with great voice acting-Cool cartoonish kinda look to it-Weekly 
 downloadable puzzles online on Wifi 
  
  
  
  The Bad: Its kinda short and the music does get repetative but i dont necessarily think its bad 
 
  
  
  Final Comments: A great game that is supposively a 3 part series so you can be looking for more 
 of these games in the future. Great puzzles, great fun, i recommend this to any puzzle fanatic. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Craze96
Rating: 10
Date: May 23, 2008 2:28 am PT
Review:  Looking for puzzle? Well this is the game that you are looking for. The game is not just only solving 
 puzzles this game also has an interesting story. At first I think that this game is not good and 
 it is only puzzle, it does not good have graphic and I think that this game is not interesting 
 at all but, after I bought the game and tried it this game does not contain ordinary puzzle like 
 other boring game has but in this game the puzzles were hard and challenging and now I cannot put 
 down my DS because of this game! But don't get frustrated if you cannot solve this puzzle. Normally 
 you would find games that has only a few puzzles in it but this game has more than 120 puzzles 
 in it. Up to puzzle 120 there is something you need to solve some mysteries first. My final word 
 is "Don't judge the book from its cover!" 
::::::

::::::
UserName: peterlala2002
Rating: 7.5
Date: May 21, 2008 5:52 am PT
Review:  I mus say, ive been reading many reviews on this game, and most.. almost ALL say this game is outstanding! 
 So i went and bought it ... and was surprised. I was surprised that this game has barely any ... 
 well .... ALL you do is solve little puzzles that randomly turn up while you go through the adventure. 
 Sure this sounds lame but atleast the puzzles are fun, but over time this whole concept of just 
 solving puzzles for no reason while going through te adventure gets very boring. I love the story 
 and the characters based in the game. The whole game is well presented and even has anime clips 
 through out helping the story to grow.
  
  Overall, good game but highly overated due to the fact that all you do is solve puzzles that have 
 nothing to do with the story. Definately worth buying if you see it cheap tho. Thanks :) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sfc42
Rating: 7
Date: May 21, 2008 4:34 am PT
Review:  Professor Layton is, at heart, just a collection of puzzles. There's a somewhat charming, although 
 kid oriented, storyline, but really it is about solving puzzles. Most of these are pretty good, 
 but I'm a big fan of "inventory based" adventure games. Doing a bunch of puzzles seemed kind of 
 pointless. It's often comical how the game finds so many ways to get the player to do puzzles, 
 including the overall plot, which really didn't make any sense at the end. 
  
  Several of the puzzles are classics, like getting farm aminals across a river in the right order. 
 About half the puzzles take advantage of being in an electronic form with a stylus, but there are 
 a whole lot of pen and paper word problems too. Most of the puzzles are straight forward, but there 
 are a few that are a little ambiguous. This will drive a hardcore gamer crazy. It's really frustrating 
 to lose some points because the wording of the puzzle is not clear. 
  
  Outside the puzzles you can do pixel hunts to find coins and more puzzles. The game has a great 
 interface for solving a jigzaw puzzle, but there is only one jigzaw in the whole game, and you 
 find the pieces slowly throughout the game. The animation is nice, and the full video cartoon cutscenes 
 were impressive compared to other DS games. So, overall, it's a good waste of time. Oh, and if 
 you didn't take any Computer Science Graph Theory courses in college, you should pick this up to 
 learn a little of it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: knilybrik
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 9, 2008 1:17 pm PT
Review:  Professor layton is truly fun if you want a good puzzle. there are over a 120 puzzles plus weekly 
 downloadable puzzles via wi-fi. The story is amazing and the mysteries are shocking to discover 
 including a murder, a tower, an apple, and more! If you like crime investigations or mystery movies 
 or you just like puzzles than this is for you. Gameplay is really simple and easily picked up. 
 The puzzles may be hard at times but hint coins found in the game will give you helpful hints to 
 all the puzzles. plus after beating the game you'll unlock bonus content and more. The story is 
 good with Layton and his apprentice Luke. Together they unravel the mystery of a very strange city. 
 Wanna another puzzle? Well go buy it then. Me personally loved and cannot wait for the sequel which 
 is coming around 08-09. and lastly you'll love seeing all the puzzles. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cb_penguin
Rating: 9
Date: May 11, 2008 2:23 pm PT
Review:  This game has my mind reeling trying to find the answers to its many puzzles. For anyone who likes 
 puzzle games, this is a blast. There isn't really any "where am I supposed to go" game play. Movement 
 out of the puzzles is straight forward and not any fun if you don't play the puzzles. I have never 
 seen anything like some of these puzzles, but there is the usual you have a boat that can carry 
 two animals and you have to get wolves and chickens across the river. Some of the puzzles require 
 constant touch movement like trying to get a certain amount of water in a pitcher, while others 
 are write an answer (which can be really frustrating if you have bad handwriting, it cant tell 
 my 4's from my 9's) , and others are multiple choice. The puzzles are good for anyone 10 and up. 
 I had my parents on it helping me with a couple of puzzles I just couldn't get, and they couldn't 
 either. Three of us must have spent a good 45 minutes on one puzzle. Needless to say you have to 
 have patience. It's a fun game for some and a boring/ frustrating game for others I recommend you 
 try the online demo at http://professorlaytonds. com/. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: conedog_1
Rating: 7.5
Date: May 10, 2008 12:54 pm PT
Review:  This game is ok, but not the best. The puzzles are at times just plain hard, and just not worded 
 right. Alot of times I misunderstand what the puzzle is getting at. Or may be it's just me. I've 
 been spending alot of time playing this game, but, having the computer on too ,so when I get stuck 
 I have the answer so I can move on, and that's not right. I want to play through myself but it's 
 not working out that way. Also it's more word games then any thing, I was thinking it was going 
 to be like puzzles of moving blocks and the such. Oh well. If you like word games this one might 
 be for you. The story so far is good and the cut seens are great , it has that going for it.
  If it wasn't for Gamespot and the people that write the walk throughs I would have traded this 
 game in by now. As it is I want to see how the story ends so I tredge on.
  I would like to see the makers of this game go to more of a role playing type of game play, I think 
 that would be cool. Also make the puzzles clearer and less word play.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: strwbrry_cuti
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 30, 2008 7:49 pm PT
Review:  While I thoroughly enjoyed the puzzles in the game they were often quite frustrating to complete 
 and to find. For example, the matchstick problems were often marked wrong when i had clearly completed 
 the puzzle correctly. Which after a while makes a player very angry. The other frustrating part 
 of the game is finding the "hidden puzzles" which are completely randomly placed. I will admit 
 I used a walk through to find several after tapping randomly on every screen I could find.
  These few frustrations were easily overcome by the games smooth graphics and overall amazing art 
 style. I quickly fell in love with the image of the entire game, the sherlock holmes feel is strong 
 in this game. A fun game for the puzzle lovers, now I just need the second game to unlock all of 
 the content on the first. Hope they come out with a lot more fun puzzles soon! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: StarFoxA
Rating: 9.5
Date: Apr 29, 2008 9:56 am PT
Review:  As I-- and many -- argue, gameplay is the most important aspect of a game. Arguably, without this 
 aspect a game would crumble. Professor Layton, however, excels in this aspect. Nearly every one 
 of the puzzles made me think logically; almost all of the answers are something seemingly incorrect. 
 Albeit there were a few easy puzzles that I solved with a mere glance, most of the puzzles made 
 me sit down and think "how does this work?"
  
  As if the puzzles weren't enough (most any other game developer would probably release this game 
 as a compilation as puzzles as opposed to a full-fledged game) , you explore St. Mystere, interacting 
 with the villagers and uncovering hints, items, and bonus puzzles. The game is very friendly to 
 both hardcore and casual gamers, allowing people to clip along at a quick pace, or take their time 
 to solve every puzzle that they come across.
  
  The gameplay, overall, was superbly well done. I could barely keep myself from playing start to 
 finish. To top it all off, there is a new downloadable puzzle every week. Unfortunately, hackers 
 have uncovered that the puzzles are actually already on the cartridge and connecting to WiFi merely 
 unlocks them, so that probably won't last very long. But while it does, the bonus "downloadable" 
 puzzles are quite entertaining, and provide an extra chunk of entertainment for gamers already 
 finished with the main game.
  
  One of my favorite things to see in a game is a fantastic story that keeps me drooling for more. 
 That is exactly what Layton serves up; an intriguing, mysterious story. Professor Layton and his 
 apprentice, Luke, are called to St. Mystere to investigate a so-called "Golden Apple," which if 
 found, will grant the finder a late baron's entire wealth and estate. As the story proceeds, you 
 continue to unlock more and more mysteries that keep you guessing as to who -- or what -- is behind 
 the strange happenings of St. Mystere.
  
  However, as good as the story is, there was one thing that I disliked. I never really connected 
 with the characters as if they were real people -- specifically, Professor Layton and Luke. I've 
 seen that done incredibly well in another one of my favorite DS games, Hotel Dusk: Room 215, in 
 which I connected with the interestingly woven characters incredible well. But in this game, the 
 characters felt dead, so to say. Albeit this minor complaint, the story is superbly enacted out 
 throughout the entire game.
  
  The graphic style is unique. It is unlike everything that we have seen before. The characters vary 
 in sizes and shape -- even completely round. The color in the game is a mix of vibrant with pale 
 and dull colors, providing a quite good contrast. In game graphics are just as stunning with beautiful 
 cut scenes and amazing backgrounds. However, there are a few jagged edges on a couple of the characters 
 and you can see a bit of image noise during the cut scenes. Overall, however, the graphics are 
 some of the best 2D graphics that the system has to offer.
  
  As I mentioned last paragraph, there are beautiful cut scenes, but I didn't mention that they are 
 fully voice-acted. The characters are chosen superbly (save for a couple) and the voice-acting 
 is some of the best in a Nintendo game. Only one character's voice did I dislike, and that was 
 Luke. He seemed too whiny to me. Despite that, the characters are wonderfully voice-acted and it 
 really adds a whole new level of interactivity to the game.
  
  Music is an important aspect of a game. It can set the mood for an important scene, or present 
 a situation in a different way. Professor Layton's music is well-done. From the first menu, the 
 gamer is presented with clever little tunes that present the correct mood for the game: mystery. 
 While a few of the songs are a bit repetitive, most of the game's songs are incredible.
  
  Professor Layton and the Curious Village is a wonderful little game that will keep you entertained. 
 While the adventure is a bit short (I completed it in 12 hours or so) , it is well worth the $35.00 
 price tag. I recommend picking up this rare gem. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: X_59
Rating: 8.5
Date: Apr 27, 2008 10:10 am PT
Review:  Professor Layton and the Curious Village is indeed a curious game. As if there weren't enough brain 
 training games out there already, this one takes brain busting to a whole new level. Hidden behind 
 the mask of the quaint town of St. Mystere, the story of Professor Layton and the Curious unfolds 
 as you search for the Golden Apple by solving puzzle after puzzle. You play as Professor Layton 
 and his young, eager assistant Luke, who are invited to the village by one Lady Dahlia after the 
 death of her husband. Your main task is to search for the mysterious Golden Apple, but as fate 
 would have it, the Professor and Luke discover that there is far more to this mystery than meets 
 the eye.
  
  Gameplay: In order to progress through the game, you must solve puzzles. These puzzles are either 
 given to you by the different people you talk to in the village or by discovering them. But at 
 times it gets so ridiculous that glancing at a mere dirty jar on the road will remind Layton or 
 Luke about a puzzle they have heard about. As for the puzzles themselves, they range from being 
 childishly simple to punishingly difficult; this can be seen by the amount of Picarats each one 
 is worth. The more Picarats the harder the puzzle will be. Some of the harder puzzles will definitely 
 have you scratching your head for a much longer period of time than what you're willing to spend 
 on them. At times the difficulty of a given puzzle will get to be so hard that you'll probably 
 just end up searching the internet for the answer. Exploring the town of St. Mystere is done by 
 tapping on an icon on the touch screen and simply choosing which direction to move in. Each new 
 area has more puzzles to be found, however, the puzzles do not remain in their locations forever. 
 But don't fret; a simple trip to Granny Riddelton's shack will have you racking your brain again 
 in no time.
  
  Graphics: The originality of the art in Professor Layton & the Curious Village is definitely a 
 sight to see. The game's hand drawn style adds to the games antiquated feel, and further enhances 
 the atmosphere of the game. The game also features some animated cut scenes that are truly remarkable, 
 the quality of the movies are absolutely crisp and clear for the DS. The cartoony style of each 
 individual character adds a certain distinction that separates this game from others. 
  
  Sound: The score for Professor Layton is something that is very different from what we hear in 
 other games out there. The accordion laced soundtrack in the game gives a very warm and inviting 
 feel, which is something that is definitely needed if you would want to play this game for hours 
 on end. But for all this game delivers it definitely has enough content and length to keep you 
 playing for a while, and with the addition of weekly downloadable puzzles Professor Layton won't 
 be leaving your DS' cartridge holder for a long time.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: blankshore
Rating: 9.5
Date: Apr 23, 2008 5:50 pm PT
Review:  Professor Layton: 9.3
  
  This is certainly a classic franchise in the making- and this is a classic game. If you like brain 
 teasers, a compelling mystery, and stunning artwork and animation, then Professor Layton is the 
 game for you.
  
  You step in the shoes of Professor Layton- a professor of... laytons. Look he's a professor okay, 
 don't question it. He and his snot nosed brat assistant Luke, travel to the town of St. Mystere 
 to solve the a case of a murder, but it turns out to be a whole lot more, as you might have imagined.
 
  
  All of the people of St. Mystere are obsessed with puzzles and you must solve their brain teasers 
 to advance in the game and uncover clues. One flaw is that most of the puzzles have nothing to 
 do with the case-or anything for that matter. They're just random puzzles. The puzzles range in 
 difficulty and you can obtain "hint coins" throughout the town in order to unlock-you guessed it-hints. 
 There's a limited amount though, so use them wisely. 
  
  Another flaw is that some of the puzzles are just blatently unfair. The way their worded leaves 
 you completely confused and you might have to waste hint coins just to clarify what the puzzle 
 is asking for. This is rare, and it really isn't often enuff to make the game bad. And the truly 
 great thing about the game is that it is incredibly satisfying when you solve a tough puzzle.
 
  
  Overall the game gets a 9.3. It loses points because sometimes running about town can be extremely 
 tedious, and some puzzles are just too hard.
  Buy this game. It's classic. You can even download new puzzles every week via wifi so the replayability 
 is virtually endless. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: alidallal
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 19, 2008 3:10 pm PT
Review:  Professor Layton is the first installment of a trilogy by the evolving developer Level 5, and it 
 is their first self published game. It is a set of cleverly crafted riddles by Professor "Akira 
 Tago" which have been integrated with an appealing story and lots of mysteries that will unfold 
 at the end leaving you stunned.
  
  Professor Layton is asked to solve the mystery of the Golden Apple in a far away village and while 
 doing that he stomps into other mysteries that he is certain are related to the Golden Apple, and 
 little by little he starts to discover the truth. To advance through the game there is nothing 
 like jumping, shooting or anything involved in any kind of action; it is just that you need to 
 solve puzzles "Brainteasers" that will be given to you by the village's inhabitants or you will 
 find hidden in some places.
  
  So what is it that makes the game fun to play? It is two things actually, first the puzzles themselves 
 which are sometimes easy but mostly are challenging and fun to solve giving you the feeling of 
 accomplishment when solved, and never frustrating as you can unlock hints if you are stuck with 
 a difficult one. The second thing which made me settle with a 9.0 rating is the story, it is somehow 
 slow at the beginning with a lot of mysteries but when you almost reach the end you will be surprised 
 on how things will turn up.
  
  One thing that surprised me also is the inclusion of voice acting in the movies with a good performance 
 of imitating a British accent, and on the music side the game has some nice tunes but you will 
 be much annoyed by the village repetitive music. Visually the game looks good with its unique cartoonish 
 style.
  
  The game is long and most of the time you will spend will be on solving puzzles, you will need 
 around 15 to 20 hours to finish the game. If you are still not satisfied then you can unlock extra 
 harder puzzles by finishing some collectibles in the game and if that is still not enough then 
 you can download weekly puzzles by connecting to the internet.
  
  If you are bored or have some free time just relax, drink a cup of tea and enjoy solving some puzzles 
 with Professor Layton to discover the mystery of the Golden Apple. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jgirl20
Rating: 8.5
Date: Apr 19, 2008 9:11 am PT
Review:  There are countless brain games on the market these days, Phoenix Wright and Brain Age among the 
 most prominent. It's difficult to find one that's worth your money, but Professor Layton fits the 
 bill perfectly.
  
  There's not much to say about the story; it's pretty interesting, as stories go, but could've been 
 more discreetly developed. The heart and soul of this game is the puzzles. Some are new versions 
 of old puzzles, such as the tried-and-true toothpick-moving puzzle. Others are fresh ideas. All 
 of them, however, are innovative and challenging. Some puzzles will appeal to you more than others, 
 depending on your strenghts and weaknesses. I, for one, have found puzzles that I've solved in 
 less than a minute, puzzles that challenged me and made me think, and puzzles that are so annoying 
 that I got the answers through sheer guesswork.
  
  The graphics in this game are amazing and fresh. The oddball characters with caricaturistic personalities 
 are likewise decipted, so the art ties the game together beautifully.
  
  I also love the bonuses and sidequests you unlock throughout the game, especially the ones you 
 get after defeating it. My favorite part is probably the weekly puzzle that you can download from 
 Nintendo WFC, ensuring that you'll never run out of puzzles. If you only purchase this game now, 
 don't worry - you can download all previous puzzles, excluding the first.
  
  The music in this game is quircky and fits the game like a glove. It's somewhat repetitive, however, 
 despite the large number of tracks. This isn't necessarily a bad thing - it lets you focus on the 
 puzzles without being distracted by the music, but provides a nice background. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dotXtreme
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 18, 2008 7:21 am PT
Review:  The DS has seen its fair share of "shovelware" puzzle & "brain exercise" titles in the last year, 
 thanks to the success of Brain Age and Big Brain Academy. Sadly, most of them are pretty pathetic, 
 shallow, and look like something that would pass as a free web game on a PC.
  
  I picked up Professor Layton after seeing a huge Professor Layton-themed Nintendo DS stand at a 
 local WalMart (of all places) . They were clearly pushing the DS as the perfect portable gaming 
 system for adults (as it has been in Japan for years) , and using Professor Layton as the catalyst.
 
  
  The game is a wonderful mix of adventuring and brain puzzles... just about every puzzle type you 
 can imagine are included: number puzzles, traditional riddles, visual brain teasers, mazes, and 
 so on. They are intermingled inside an adventure game and related story that keep you exploring 
 and puzzle solving until the wee hours of the morning. It's definitely one of those "just one more" 
 experiences that we love (funfunfun) and hate (I need sleep...) .
  
  Everything in the game is done wonderfully, from the story, to the characters throughout the game, 
 to the in-game dialog, to the TV-quality fully animated and voiced cut-scenes, to the interface 
 for the puzzles themselves. This is no "shovelware" title, and features such nice touches as a 
 weekly wifi-downloadable puzzle (hey Nintendo, how about WPA wireless support?!?) and a neat "hint 
 token" system to help you along just enough without making the game stupidly easy.
  
  This is also a game your kids can play -- though I'd set the minimum age at about 11 or so due 
 to the difficulty of some of the puzzles.
  
  Buy it, and enjoy some sleepless nights with Professor Layton and his sidekick Luke. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: purpoco747
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 12, 2008 5:20 am PT
Review:  Professor Layton And The Curious Village is an incredible puzzle type game.
  Aside from over 120 puzzles, bonuses and all, there are also the "weekly puzzle" , which you can 
 download via wi-fi. Every week there is a new puzzle just waiting for you to solve it, making this 
 game last ages. As I said before, There are over 120 puzzles. Each one of them has a different 
 difficulty. Some are fairly easy, but others are very challenging. there are some logical puzzles, 
 analysing puzzles... when you finish the game, you will say "awwwwww... already? I want more!'.
 
  Not just puzzles, this game has an incredible storyline and an awful lot of bonuses. This game 
 is simple, not complex, so it is very easy to learn how to play.
  The bad, is that the there are a very little amount of holes in the story, but that is not big 
 deal. Some puzzles are way to difficult to solve, and there are some you will get stuck in for 
 some good time.
  Fortunately, after the credits, the following words will appear : "To be continued". Hope that's 
 true!
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: shelbyram
Rating: 9.5
Date: Apr 8, 2008 7:31 am PT
Review:  I saw the preview and review for this game two months before it came out in Nintendo Power and 
 honestly, what first drew me in was the art. I've not seen a game yet that has the design that 
 this one does, and the review wasn't far off: I wasn't disappointed.
  
  The puzzles are challenging, more often than not I find myself going to my boyfriend for help, 
 and we enjoy solving them together. Each puzzle is worth a certain amount of points called Picarats 
 and they are rated by their difficulty according to how many Picarats you receive upon solving 
 it. Also, most puzzles have three hint screens, all of which you can buy for one hint coin a piece. 
 The hint coins are helpful, however the first hint of the three usually winds up being no help. 
 So if you get stuck, be sure you have enough coins to pass the first one.
  
  The mystery of St. Mystere is at first, interesting, but throughout gameplay I became more and 
 more detached from the mystery itself and found myself walking around looking for puzzles. They 
 can be found everywhere! Windows, clocks, cobblestones, as well as with the NPCs scattered about 
 the town. Not to say the mystery Layton and Luke are solving isn't worth the time, but it tends 
 to branch out into so many other mini-mysteries that I lost track. 
  
  The graphics in the mini-movies between chapters and during big events tend to be a bit boxy, something 
 I was a little disappointed about because I know the DS has better graphics capabilities. But this 
 isn't something that hinders or deters the gameplay at all. 
  
  The music in the game is quirky, and usually I love it, but during puzzles that are hard to solve 
 I wind up turning the volume down. 
  
  All in all, it is a wonderful game. If I pick it up and cannot put it down again for three hours, 
 there's something there that I like. Mostly I feel it is rewarding to solve puzzles and get something 
 in return. My opinion? If you're considering it, go ahead and buy it. You won't be disappointed.
 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Darkrush000
Rating: 8
Date: Apr 7, 2008 5:29 pm PT
Review:  There are lots and lots of games on the DS that help your brain to stay in shape. But Professor 
 Layton is the is the Big Boss, the teacher of the other games. The puzzles are simple, but very 
 challenging. The cutscenes are awesome, and the characters are fun and charismatic.
  
  You will spend a lot of time with the amount puzzles (much more than a hundred) . Like I said before, 
 theyre very simple - maybe too simple. You can find similar puzzles on a quick search in the internet. 
 But they make you think a lot. The difficulty of the puzzle is relative to the amount of Picarats 
 (points) you won. For example: if a puzzle worths 20 Picarats, t means is a piece of cake. But 
 if it worths 80, then... youll spend a lot of time trying to discover the answer.
  
  The music is repetitive, but extremely addictive. The characters have that British accent. Not 
 much to talk about it.
  
  The game is controlled ENTIRELY with the touch screen.
  
  A simple, but fun game. If you like action games, you probably wont have pacience for this game. 
 But give it a try. I think youll like it!
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: debdebtig
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 7, 2008 5:54 am PT
Review:  Like to use your brain? This game will get you using it and then some. You'll probably be scratching 
 your head trying to figure out some of the puzzles. 
  
  I wasn't sure about buying the game at first, but then I found out it was a puzzle game and bought 
 it, I'm very glad that I did. It definitely is one to buy if you like games like Brain Age (original 
 or 2) and Brain Age Academy but want something a little bit different. It gives you the chance 
 to think in ways other then words and letters, you have to think about numbers. Some will remember 
 the puzzle about getting a number of birds and wolves across the river, it's in there, but unless 
 it was recently that you did the puzzle, you'll have to truly think about it. 
  
  Love this game, but sometimes my brain can't get around the puzzles. You really have to think to 
 make your way through. Great game! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: oceanshoreview
Rating: 9.5
Date: Apr 4, 2008 9:50 am PT
Review:  Professor Layton is a game that really knows what it is and sticks to it. The game is all about 
 solving brain-teaser style puzzles and that's really what you do. Surprisingly enough, the story 
 to go along with it isn't half bad either!
  
  There are tons of puzzles to solve in this game, something like 130 or so and they'll definitely 
 take some thinking. Solving these puzzles is a great way to get a little go boost because at first 
 glance you'll probably be confused at most any of the puzzles. But eventually the pieces come together 
 (pun!) and everything makes sense. 
  
  Solving the puzzles is really the games main focus, there is no fighting or battle system, but 
 just a lot of exploring and puzzling. It plays a lot like a text adventure in you have fixed paths 
 you can choose to move along and things you can interact with. Tapping around the screen will find 
 you hidden objects and talking to people will most often get you into a new puzzle to solve. 
 
  
  The story is a sort of murder-esque mystery and it really takes an extreme twist towards the end. 
 I found myself not wanting to put it down, however, getting stuck on a certain puzzle for to long 
 will definitely cause you to put it down. The only flaw I can see with the game isn't overly hard 
 puzzles, but some of them just plain didn't make sense to me. I found different answers for some 
 that I didn't see any problem with even after getting the answer that matched the game and reading 
 the explanation. I suppose it could just be me, maybe I just plain couldn't understand these, but 
 I think there are a few in there that will stump most people.
  
  There's no reason for me to praise this game over and over again to create a review so long no 
 one wants to read it anyways. So, just take my word. This is an original adventure with an interesting 
 tale, a lot of good brainteasers, good gameplay and even good unlockables. You'll want to solve 
 every puzzle the game has to offer and you surely won't want to stop once you get into it. Don't 
 miss it! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Santhin
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 4, 2008 4:43 am PT
Review:  A perfect example of the kind of game that works best on a portable system, Professor Layton is 
 charming, quirky, and fun, and has enough brain teasers under the hood to keep you coming back 
 for more.
  
  Professor Layton has one of the greatest honors of being one of the few games I play when I'm not 
 playing it. Oftentimes you'll come across a particularly difficult puzzle (one of the extra ones 
 frequently) , and after staring at it for quite some time either leave it for later or set the game 
 aside. Of course, it's never far from thought, and you'll likely find that puzzle creeping into 
 your brain over the next day or two till you finally stumble onto the solution.
  
  The storyline is, in my opinion, not terribly deep persay. If you give it a little thought you'll 
 solve most of the mysteries presented on your own. But, that's not really why you're playing the 
 game, and it doesn't bother you much with how interesting the characters are and with how well 
 the story is fleshed out. It very much feels like a whimsical family setting, and would have likely 
 felt right at home being produced by Studio Gibli. The voice acting is especially superb where 
 it is available, Professor Layton and his assistant both match their parts perfectly and help flesh 
 out the characters.
  
  The puzzles range from the simple to the obscure, to the time consuming, which all work fine since 
 they never let you settle into a proper or boring rythym, you're also never more than a few seconds 
 from being able to save your game, so it's friendly for bustrips or any other unknown amount of 
 time. Anyone who uses their portable for actual portable gaming should definitely give this game 
 a chance. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ping5000
Rating: 8
Date: Sep 2, 2008 11:52 pm PT
Review:  Professor Layton and the Curious Village is about, well, a guy named Layton who enters a curious 
 village. It plays like a traditional point-and-click adventure. However, instead of presenting 
 you with puzzles that are within the context of the storyline, it instead challenges you with hundreds 
 upon hundreds of puzzles. Some tease your grey matter, others call upon your ability to use math 
 and practically all of them like to mess with your head. Call it a point-and-click adventure, call 
 it a Brain Training game under the guise of a point-and-click adventure. Whatever it is, it doesn't 
 change the fact that Professor Layton and the Curious Village is a great game, and one that deserves 
 a look.
  
  Curious Village starts off with some of the most eye-popping FMV ever burned into a DS cartridge. 
 It looks absolutely fantastic and it's even accompanied by top-notch voice-acting. In the midst 
 of the outstanding introduction, Curious Village establishes the basic outline of the story. Professor 
 Layton and his apprentice, Luke, have been invited to the curious village of St. Mystere by Lady 
 Dahlia. Dahlia requests that Layton and Luke discover the mystery of the Golden Apple, the last 
 mystery that Dahlia's now late-husband, Baron Reinhold, left for St. Mystere. Baron stated in his 
 will that if one were to discover the mystery, one would inherit his fortune. It's an interesting 
 set-up, and while the story becomes more about solving the mystery of the village than about the 
 apple, it's an interesting narrative, with genuinely surprising twists and revelations. It's all 
 wrapped together with a satisfying and sweet ending that'll surely melt even the coldest of hearts. 
 It also helps that the story explains why everyone acts the way they are, because the people of 
 St. Mystere are truly an odd assortment of people.
  
  St. Mystere and its inhabitants are obsessed with puzzles. Want to find get some information about 
 the apple? Solve this puzzle first and then you'll get your info. Got time? Here's a puzzle. Want 
 to get a room in an inn? Solve this puzzle first. Not only do the people of the village love handing 
 out puzzles, but if you look hard enough by tapping scenery on the touchscreen, you might run into 
 a hidden puzzle. Tap on a clock, and you get a clock puzzle. Tap on a cat harassing a mouse and 
 you're going to get a puzzle that has to do with a cat and a mouse. Puzzles are what Curious Village 
 lives and dies by, and since your enjoyment hinges on how enjoyable the puzzles are, it's fortunate 
 that they're quite engaging. They never seem impossible; with enough thinking and dedication, they're 
 quite solvable. It's that tease that keeps you going; you know answer, but you just can't say it 
 and once you do, it's quite rewarding. They're all ranked by difficulty; you earn picarats, essentially 
 points, when you solve puzzles. The more picarats you can earn for any given puzzle, the more challenging 
 that puzzle will be. For every time you fail a puzzle, you can retry it for less picarats. If you're 
 really stuck, you can spend hint coins that you can find by incessantly tapping on every single 
 pixel on the screen.
  
  Some of the puzzles do have some sort of context with the situation at hand, but most of them feel 
 random in placement, and they just seem they're there just because they're there. It's this sort 
 of disconnection with the adventuring aspect and the puzzle-solving aspect that can get quite jarring 
 sometimes. It's never a major problem, but Curious Village could've benefited with more puzzles 
 that physically altered or solved something in St. Mystere. Those types of puzzles appear more 
 toward the end of the game, but it's only handful in the hundreds of puzzles. When it's all said 
 and done though, both aspects are quite strong and even though they rarely complement each other, 
 they both lend to the charm and overall enjoyability of the game.
  
  
  Visually, Curious Village sports an original look. It takes a European-esque setting, with a rather 
 brown color palette. As unappealing as that sounds, it's rather eye-pleasing thanks to the strong 
 sense of style. Buildings edge over and bend in such a way that seem completely natural, character 
 designs are all appealing and memorable and while the primarily brown color palette can occasionally 
 get slightly off-putting, Curious Village has a very strong aesthetic, and has some of the best 
 hand-drawn art on the DS. The audio isn't as nearly as strong. The music is the primary culprit. 
 The accordion-heavy tracks are quite good, but the problem is that their isn't even of them. One 
 of the tracks repeat for nearly the half of the game; it just gets irritating at a certain point. 
 The voice-acting is Curious Village's strongest audio component, but there's not enough of it to 
 really outweigh the repetitive music.
  
  The initial play-time for Curious Village can be as little as 10 hours to almost 20 hours; it all 
 depends on how often you go out of your way to solve as many puzzles as humanly possible. Even 
 when you reach the end of the story, there's still a lot of puzzles to wrap your head around. A 
 couple puzzles can only be accessed through Layton's Challenges, and they're some of the most challenging 
 puzzles in the entire game. If you have a wi-fi connection, you can get more puzzles by downloading 
 them. Downloading isn't the right term for it though, because all of the "downloadable" puzzles 
 are already in the DS cartridge, and connecting via wi-fi only unlocks the puzzles, which is downright 
 lame.
  
  Professor Layton and the Curious Village has its problems, but it's still a very fun game and it's 
 worth a look from any DS owner.. The game never seems to find a proper connection between the adventure 
 and puzzle-solving aspect and the music can get annoyingly repetitive, but it's still an original 
 and enjoyable game that should be in anyone's DS collection. Curious Village is supposedly the 
 first in a trilogy, and if the next two games are going to be as strong as Curious Village, then 
 that means the DS library can be assured that it'll receive at least two more great games in its 
 lifespan. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: CMJR
Rating: 8.5
Date: Mar 30, 2008 10:22 pm PT
Review:  A brain-teasing adventure for the puzzled-at-heart, "Professor Layton and the Curious Village" 
 is a story-driven puzzle game by Level-5. Work your way through over 100 puzzles while solving 
 the mysteries of St. Mystere, and uncovering Reinhold fortune.
  
  -- Overview --
  
  The charming Professor Layton and his unstoppable child apprentice Luke are called away to a small 
 village, St. Mystere. A quaint, isolated locale nestled in the woods, accessible only by a single 
 drawbridge. The great Baron Reinhold has recently passed away, and his will bequeaths his entire 
 estate to the one person who can locate the "Golden Apple". Everyone tried, and everyone failed.
 
  
  And so the Lady Dahlia, the Baron's second wife, called on Layton to help solve the mystery. Very 
 shortly after arriving, the drawbridge is rendered useless, and our intrepid pair are trapped in 
 the village. The townsfolk seem non-plussed however, and take every chance they can to quiz and 
 test Layton and Luke with puzzles of every kind imagineable. Many of them requiring a solution 
 in order to continue on their quest.
  
  As the game progresses, more mysteries are uncovered, to be eventually solved. Why does Lady Dahlia 
 bear such a striking resemblance to the Baron's first wife, Violet? Who stole the crank to the 
 village drawbridge? What is the purpose behind the ominous tower, several stories high, that looms 
 over the village? What IS the "Golden Apple"?
  
  Professor Layton and his sidekick Luke are bent on finding out. But only with your help...
  
 
  -- Gameplay --
  
  As "Professor Layton and the Curious Village" begins, you are treated to a highly professional, 
 animated cut-scene of Layton and Luke driving to St. Mystere. Layton outlines the purpose of their 
 journey, and the conversation sets up the relationship between these two characters you'll spend 
 the rest of your gaming time with.
  
  The first puzzle comes up almost immediately, and serves as an introduction to how puzzle-solving 
 in the game works. Each puzzle is assigned a number, to help track those solved and those not, 
 and worth a certain number of "picarats". "Picarats" are essentially a method of tracking your 
 score, as each incorrect guess for a given puzzle decreases its "picarat" value.
  
  However, don't worry if you're stumped. The game also offers hints, but not without a catch. As 
 you travel through St. Mystere, you can poke around in the hopes of uncovering "hint coins". As 
 you may have already guessed, each hint is worth one coin. Run out of coins, and you're out of 
 luck in the hint department until you can find more. Though the game claims there to be a finite 
 number of coins, you'll likely find you have plenty left over by the end of the game.
  
  The plot progresses in a very linear fashion, with Layton and Luke traveling all over St. Mystere 
 on various tasks and intents. The upper screen of the DS reveals a map as you travel about, along 
 with a reminder of where to go next.
  
  The puzzles crop up pretty much everywhere; many from the village folk themselves, but there are 
 also plenty of hidden puzzles scattered around that aren't necessary to finish the game, but can 
 offer extra "picarats" and rewards.
  
  In particular, Layton and Luke will collect objects and items unrelated to their overall task. 
 Scraps of a painting, strange robotic gizmos, and furniture and decorations for their rooms at 
 the inn. Collect enough of each, and you'll unlock additional puzzles to be played from the main 
 menu.
  
  The puzzles come in all forms, some of which you may even recognize. Logic puzzles, shape puzzles, 
 math problems... the list goes on and on. The best thing about this being, if you are poor at one 
 type of puzzle, you will likely excel at another. Which means, even if you're stumped, you can 
 explore elsewhere for a bit and solve other puzzles more up your alley, until you're ready to tackle 
 the previous one again.
  
  Interestingly, the puzzles don't really increase in difficulty except the last ten or so leading 
 up to the conclusion of the game. This is likely due to the fact that you don't always encounter 
 the puzzles in the same order, except those that are related to what you're currently trying to 
 accomplish. This does mean some of the more difficult puzzles end up blind-siding you at unexpected 
 times.
  
  Also, the descriptions for some of the puzzles seem lacking in key pieces of information, leading 
 you to use up valuable hint coins to discover something that was supposed to be given information. 
 This does not happen often, but can be frustrating.
  
  As an appreciated bonus, "Professor Layton and the Curious Village" also offers free downloadable 
 weekly puzzles. Which means, even when you've solved the mysteries of St. Mystere, the games are 
 far from over.
  
  -- Graphics & Sound --
  
  First off, the cinematics in this game are absolutely top-notch. Full cell-shaded animation really 
 brings the story to life, even though they are generally short and fairly sporadic. The voice acting 
 within the cinematics brings Layton and Luke to life, despite their being silent for the rest of 
 the game.
  
  The design of "Professor Layton and the Curious Village" is also spot-on, bringing old-world European 
 stylings to life with grace and panache. St. Mystere feels like an old village that could actually 
 exist, and the characters are various, humorous, and in some cases unnerving. Regardless of their 
 constant puzzle-spouting, each seems to hold their own reasons for doing so, and are quick to congratulate 
 you when you succeed.
  
  The audio overall is highly enjoyable, though maybe a bit repetitive at times. Some of the music 
 loops incessantly, especially while you're solving a puzzle, to the point of distraction. You may 
 find yourself turning the volume down for a time to give your brain a little more breathing room.
 
  
  Generally the music is excellent, especially while exploring St. Mystere. You'll hear plenty of 
 accordions playing, again lending to the old-world feel created by the game's designers.
  
  -- Conclusion --
  
  If you're a puzzle lover of any kind, then "Professor Layton and the Curious 
 Village" is definitely a game you'll want to pick up. Even if you're not, but enjoy a good story, 
 well-rounded characters, and fun and interesting environments, you may want to give your brain 
 a workout.
  
  After all, as Professor Layton would say, every puzzle has an answer! Even if you have trouble 
 finding it the first, second, or third time around. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: wiiplay1
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 29, 2008 7:51 pm PT
Review:  Professor Layton is not just a Brain Age game. All Brain Age does is attempt to challenge you in 
 easy ways that you learned to do in 1st grade, so easy that a 7 year old could do it (no offense) . 
 But Professor Layton and the Curious Village does way more than that. It challenges you in not 
 only in basic ways, but it challenges you using logic. _ _ is 1,000 times _. The anwser is m, but 
 how? This is the kind of thing that challenges everyone. You can spend 20 minutes on some of these 
 puzzles and when you finally get it right, it will make you think "Why didn't I think of that at 
 first?" I speak for you when I say at least 20 of the puzzles were extremly tough.
  
  You play during the game as both Professor Layton and his apprentince, Luke. What happens is that 
 the Professor is heading to St. Mystere since he got a request from Lady Delia. What happend is 
 that her late husband, Baron Reinhold, passed away two months ago. His will was disclosed and read 
 something around "The Reinhold family treasure, the golden apple, is hidden somewhere beneath this 
 village. To whomever successfully locates this treasure, I offer the whole of my estate." Naturally, 
 everyone set out for it but after long searches, everybody came back empty handed. A little later 
 on when you get to the manor, Lady Delia's cat, Claudia, is scared off by a mysterious noice. Professor 
 Layton and Luke have to go get back Claudia, but when they come back, they find something horrible 
 has happend. Lady Delia's cousin was ed, and Professor Layton just happens to be a suspect. So 
 this game unlike Brain Age and Big Brain Academy actually has a fun and intresting plot while still 
 maintaining the challenging puzzles.
  
  The game challenges you in many different ways ranging from easy to tough, such as "What is the 
 last letter of the alplhabet? Hint: It isn't Z". Not all these puzzles are easy enough for young 
 children. Most puzzles require lots of thinking but when figured out, everything makes perfect 
 sense.
  
  The game has supported Wi-Fi connection. What you can do with it is download brand new puzzles 
 every week for free of course, but it's been closly proven that it is already on the game, all 
 you're doing is downloading a code to make it playable. 
  
  The game should take you maybe, 10 or more hours to beat, but it's still not over after that. Once 
 you beat the game, you can unlock some more way tougher puzzles. Those should take you 10 times 
 longer to beat maybe, but all of them are still worth a try. But it's STILL not over after that. 
 There are some videos you can unlock which get more into the game, but sorry folks, you'll have 
 to wait because to unlock those as those codes are in Professor Layton 2!
  
  This game challenges you in it's own way unlike most other educational games. With an actual plot 
 and lots of things to do in this game, this is probably one of the hardest and yet funnest educational 
 game yet. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bluej33
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 28, 2008 6:41 am PT
Review:  Let me say right off the bat that Professor Layton and the Curious Village is like no game you've 
 ever played before. In fact, it's one of those titles that really challenges the typical convention 
 of a video game -- even more so than such titles as Brain Age or Nintendogs. Those games, while 
 unique, are "games" through and through. Professor Layton, however, is not. It is essentially a 
 compilation of puzzles -- cool, brain-bending puzzles to be sure, but puzzles nonetheless. 
  
  This is the one thing that kept me away from Professor Layton for a while, but let me assuage 
 any fears you may have. If you're apprehensive about picking up this game because you think, as 
 I did, that you're shelling out thirty bucks for what you could get in a puzzle book for a couple 
 dollars, don't worry. Because while you may have seen some of the puzzles before and not every 
 puzzle is entirely new material, the game features high production values and fantastic presentation, 
 and is certainly worth a purchase from any DS gamer. 
  
  The puzzles themselves are the meat of the game, and these are incredibly well-done. Every puzzle 
 that you encounter is gauged in terms of difficulty with a money value -- the currency used by 
 the citizens of St. Mystere, the titular curious village, is the picarat -- and you'll earn that 
 respective amount if you beat the puzzle in one go. The money that you collect will be important 
 later in the game when you need certain amounts to unlock bonus content at the end of the game. 
 Some puzzles are worth a mere 5 or 10 picarats, whereas some of the super-tough bonus puzzles at 
 the end are worth 99 picarats. You'll be penalized for entering the wrong answer by having the 
 picarat reward reduced, but usually you'll never lose more than 20% of the total value of the puzzle 
 -- the exception is where there are only two choices, in which case if you answer wrongly you'll 
 lose a whopping 50% of the puzzle value.
  
  Puzzles can be really tough, but there's a lot of freedom in that you don't really have to beat 
 a puzzle if you don't want to -- or more likely, if you can't. You can't beat the game fairly easily 
 without completing too many puzzles, so if you get stuck you can usually skip a puzzle without 
 too much consequence. However, if you skip too many puzzles, you're going to run into some trouble 
 -- there are several instances where you are required to have completed a minimum number of puzzles 
 before progressing. Additionally, there are certain puzzles that serve as locks on doors, such 
 that it's impossible to go any further unless you complete this puzzle. 
  
  However, if you really get stuck on a puzzle that you wish to complete or that is required, you 
 can receive up to three hints to help you out. You can find hint coins scattered throughout St. 
 Mystere, and each hint requires one of these coins. You can go ahead and blow three coins and pretty 
 much get the answer to a puzzle, as the final hint basically gives you the answer, but this is 
 a dangerous habit to get into. There are some later puzzles that are really tough and you'll be 
 ticked off if you realize that you spent coins on simple puzzles early in the game and can't afford 
 to purchase hints for more difficult puzzles late in the game. 
  
  The puzzles are incredibly well-imagined and quite clever. There are some traditional puzzles scattered 
 throughout the title, such as the classic "turn the triangle of coins upside down in three moves", 
 sliding block puzzles, magic squares, and "bring all the animals across the river following these 
 specific conditions". But along with that are some really neat puzzles; some of them involve logic, 
 others fairly basic math (a few times basic knowledge of Algebra is going to be necessary, or at 
 least helpful) , and the most exciting: those that really require you to be clever. Oftentimes the 
 answer lies in not overthinking a problem and instead reading the problem carefully -- they're 
 cleverly worded and often misleading. 
  
  But of course, I wouldn't be recommending Professor Layton if it was simply a boring progression 
 of puzzles -- there's a strong story element to the game (more on that momentarily) , and you'll 
 travel throughout St. Mystere as you fulfill certain objectives (usually just moving from place 
 to place, gathering information) . All the action takes place on the bottom screen, with a map displayed 
 on the upper screen. You walk around from section to section of the town and simply tap on something 
 to investigate it. Tapping on people initiates a conversation with them, and tapping suspicious 
 items will often yield you a hint coin. Also, tapping on certain items will allow you to investigate 
 them and file them as clues. 
  
  All these puzzles are held together with a surprisingly well-written story. Professor Layton and 
 his assistant, a young boy named Luke, are renowned for their puzzle-solving abilities and are 
 called to the village St. Mystere to investigate an inheritance dispute. An untimely murder quickly 
 complicates things and its up to the good Professor to investigate things and figure out exactly 
 what's happening. The game's title doesn't mislead; the village truly is mysterious, as the 40+ 
 people you'll encounter all have unique personalities and are, strangely, constantly presenting 
 you with puzzles. The writing is also well-done and can be downright hilarious, and the pacing 
 is fantastic. 
  
  The characters themselves are all distinctly weird and have incredible personality, for the most 
 part. A few of the minor characters are rather forgettable but most of them are pretty impressive. 
 Professor Layton and Luke, in addition, are well-developed and as you progress through the game 
 you'll grow more and more attached to them. The storytelling is also really great; most of the 
 plot comes through typical story boxes, but scattered throughout the title are some really fantastic-looking 
 cutscenes complete with voice-overs. Throughout most of the game you'll get occasional plot with 
 puzzles taking up most of your time, but the last hour really shines in that the pacing really 
 picks up and all the unexplained mysteries of St. Mystere finally come to light. 
  
  The title's presentation is tight, as are the touch screen controls. It's really easy to pick up 
 and play, and the menus are easily navigable. The game keeps excellent track of what's going on, 
 so you could put it down and pick it up a few weeks later and get right back on track (not that 
 you'd likely want to) , thanks to a quick recap of the story as well as some really awesome menu 
 options. For example, you can check in on all the mysteries you've come across and access Layton's 
 journal to go further back in the story. There are also some extra distractions throughout the 
 game, such as assembling a painting or a robotic dog (parts of both of these are obtained for solving 
 certain puzzles) . Additionally, you gain furniture throughout the title and can create the ideal 
 hotel room for both Layton and Luke. 
  
  The game can easily be completed in under 10 hours -- it took me just over 9 hours, and I went 
 out of my way to solve as many puzzles as I could before the story's truly surprising climax. If 
 you are easily troubled with tough puzzles, it could easily take you longer, as even some of the 
 required puzzles are quite tough. However, once you've finished and the end credits have rolled, 
 there's still tones to do. Depending on the number of picarats you've gained throughout the adventure, 
 certain bonus features will be unlocked. For example, you can get a profile section for everybody 
 in the game, some uber-difficult special puzzles, and more. Additionally, it's fun to go back and 
 find all the hidden puzzles and complete all the extras. It's got a ton of play value and is easily 
 worth the money you'll pay for it. 
  
  For the most part, Professor Layton is a real visual treat. I already mentioned the cut scenes, 
 and they're certainly one of the high points of the game -- actually, there are few parts of the 
 game that aren't enjoyable. They take full advantage of the graphical capabilities of the DS and 
 the voice acting is quite good for a DS title. There are only a few throughout the majority of 
 the title, but the last hour of the adventure is chock full of these scenes, and big plot surprises 
 are generally taken care of with them. The rest of the game, however, is dripping with charm thanks 
 to a really distinct, anime-like art style. The conversations outside of the cutscenes are done 
 with 2D character models, each with a few canned expressions, much like Fire Emblem. This becomes 
 a slight problem, because these expressions aren't quite enough for every situation -- for example, 
 Layton has an annoyingly confident smile on as he's being accused of murder. 
  
  All told, Professor Layton and the Curious Village is among the best titles on the DS. The puzzles 
 are really a lot of fun and the investigative work will be a blast for any fan of point-and-click 
 adventures (think Phoenix Wright, Hotel Dusk, and Trace Memory) . While the conclusion is satisfying, 
 there are also some characters that are left unexplained; this, combined with some other obvious 
 hints assures the player that the Japanese sequel will indeed be brought over to North America. 
 It's a fantastic game that's a must-have in any DS-owner's collection. Professor Layton promises 
 to be the poster child of one of the DS's most successful and innovative franchises, and you won't 
 want to be left out. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: drummer131
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 25, 2008 11:16 pm PT
Review:  GAMEPLAY: 9
  GRAPHICS: 8
  SOUND: 8
  VALUE: 10
  TILT: 9
  
  ROUGH SCORE: 8.8
  FINAL SCORE: 9.0
  
  ----------------------------------------
  
  The Good:
  - Wide variety 
 of puzzles, ranging in both type and difficulty
  - Intriguing story
  - Diverse cast of characters
  - Easy to use/understand interface
  
  The Bad:
  - Somewhat 
 limited replayability
  - Music may annoy some
  
  ----------------------------------------
  
  Here's the story of how Professor Layton and I 
 met:
  I came home for spring break last Thursday and my younger brother, who was also coming home for 
 spring break, immediately began imploring me to check out this game. He had gotten via "illegal 
 cartridge-shaped means", but regardless, I was willing to give it a try. I played it for three 
 hours straight and found it hard to put down.
  
  GAMEPLAY
  This is a puzzle game masked beneath the skin of a point-and-click adventure game. Or is it the 
 other way around? Either way, it is what it is, an adventure game filled with puzzles. The interface 
 is simple: use the stylus to solve puzzles and move about the town. Point, click, drag. That's 
 all there is to it. A notebook may be necessary at times to calculate some algebra, draw some illustrations, 
 or make a list of possibilities, but that's par for the course when dealing with certain puzzles. 
 The game does not expect you to be able to figure out all its puzzles in your head. But I digress 
 a bit... The point to make is that it works. This all works, very well. I can't really think of 
 any way the gameplay could have been improved. I never found myself wishing some aspect of the 
 game was some other way or another. It works well as is, and who can complain when something is 
 working as it should.
  
  GRAPHICS
  The one word I have used to describe this game over and over again over the past two days is charming. 
 This game is very charming. The game does not boast killer 3D graphics, but that's okay. Because, 
 in its place, we have very pleasing cartoon stills. Animated characters over illustrated backdrops. 
 For a point-and-click adventure, this is perfectly acceptable and given the nature of the story, 
 audience, and overall aim of the game itself, it works well and adds to the game's charm.
  
  SOUND
  I think there are only like, ten tracks in the whole game. I only kinda remember about 
 five of them. I didn't have a problem with this, nor did I have a problem with all the accordion. 
 It adds a certain element to the game, brings you into the world, adds to the atmosphere. And isn't 
 that what a video game's soundtrack is supposed to do? As simple as it is, it's flawless and very 
 effective.
  
  VALUE 
  The game features 120 puzzles in the main game and I believe there are at least 15 (?) additional 
 puzzles to be solved once the game is beaten. On top of that, with Wifi, you can download even 
 more puzzles. And of course, you can always go back and retry the puzzles you've already solved. 
 So, as far as replayability is concerned, that depends on how long you're willing to play the same 
 puzzles over and over again. In my opinion, I think this game has plenty of replayability, so long 
 as you revisit it every once in a long while, so that the puzzles feel slightly unfamiliar and 
 the story isn't still fresh in your mind.
  
  TILT
  This game is unique, to say the least. There is nothing else like it out for the DS. Its charm 
 and incredible diversity (where the puzzles are concerned) are undeniable and very satisfactory. 
 So, to close, I say this: if you are one who even remotely enjoys intriguing stories and/or puzzles, 
 do yourself a good service and check this game out. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Breedlovin
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 25, 2008 8:02 am PT
Review:  I'll keep it short and sweet, this game is absolutely what the DS is about. Simple gameplay but 
 with fantastic puzzles that range from easy to very challenging but ultimately achievable. What 
 I like is that the puzzles are presented within a context and aren't just fired off one after the 
 other. They actually are tied into the story, some more loosely than others. 
  
  The art style, the writing and the story are all different from most of what you see on the platform. 
 The art direction really reminded me more of 'Tripletts of Bellville' and other short animated 
 films from Europe. Though I am not particular about art styles, it made for something very attractive 
 and a much need change from the usual anime look.
  
  I couldn't recommend this enough to both 'casual' gamers and hardcore gamers that are looking for 
 something different in their spare gaming time. You will find yourself picking up to play 5 minutes 
 to solve a few or 4 hours stretches looking for hint coins and hidden puzzles. Finally, the DLC 
 makes this something to keep coming back to until the sequel eventually hits.
  
  Fantastic game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: khoaNGx
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jan 26, 2009 3:41 pm PT
Review:  A finely tuned game with adventuring and puzzle solving. Has a nice story to go along with it as 
 well as excellent, detailed cutscenes. Puzzles can be very easy or very hard, but don't fret, you 
 can have hints! 
  
  Stylus is essential in this game. There are hidden things throughout the game located in the touch 
 screen. Characters are realistic and each have a distinct unique personality, rather than a bland 
 and generic one. Music creates a perfect mood to fit with the story and setting, although it's 
 very repetitive.
  
  The bad thing is, if you're a puzzle freak, this game will pass by extremely quick. you can download 
 weekly puzzle via Wi-Fi, but they're generally easier than ingame puzzles.
  
  This game got a 9.0 by gamespot for a reason. Once I picked up and started this game, I didn't 
 played another one until I had finished this game.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Arclight_Blue
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 24, 2008 4:47 pm PT
Review:  at first glance professor layton and the curious village looks like another ds puzzle game, but 
 once youve loaded the game and watched beautiful FMV cinematic and solved your very first puzzle, 
 you will know that it truly stands out from the others. in prof. layton you will follow the exploits 
 of the puzzle lover/gentleman professor layton and his assisitant luke as they try to solve the 
 mystery of the hidden treasure known as the Golden Apple, but murder mystery fans dont fret youll 
 still find some place here as the story wonderfully revovles from treasure hunting to murder mystery 
 to........
  now lets get to where this game truly stands out: the puzzles, there are 120 puzzle scattered around 
 town most of these puzzles the difficulty of these puzzles is ranging from "piece o cake" to "oh 
 geez my head hurts". Solving these puzzles in your first try has its own benefits as the game rewards 
 you with virtual points called "picarats", commit a mistake and the amount of "picarats" youll 
 be getting will decrease, these picarats can be used to unlock extra content. the game's visual 
 presentation at first glance may look a bit kid-oriented, serves its purpose it gives the player 
 some sort of a sherlock holmes vibe not to mention the occasional beautiful FMV scenes. and dont 
 worry about the game being too short the story lasts around 14+ hours and theres plenty else to 
 do after beating it you can either download weekly puzzles via the nintendo wifi, or solve more 
 difficult puzzles in the bonus menu
  this game sounds perfect you say?, well not really for a start the games sound is repetitive playing 
 only a handful of tracks through out the whole game, and a handful of the puzzles are just recycled 
 versions of the earlier ones, despite its minor issues professor layton is a great game a must 
 for everyone who owns a DS whether they may be casual or hardcore,
  
  Professor Layton and the curious village is (as of this moment) the best puzzle/adventure game 
 for the DS, and when you know that its on a nintendo console (which is suddenly becoming a haven 
 for the forgotten puzzle/adventure genre) , thats saying alot
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: pspitus
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 23, 2008 8:02 pm PT
Review:  (Letter Grade: A) 
  Story: All right, I'm going to tell it to you straight, Professor Layton and the Curious Village 
 is a puzzle game. Although it is a puzzle game, the story elements within the game are phenomenal. 
 It is about a world renowned puzzle solver named Professor Layton, and his young assistant Luke 
 who try to solve the mystery behind the Golden Apple; the key to a wealthy Baron's inheritance 
 in a small town called St. Mystere. The story sounds pretty dull, but it isn't. The story elements 
 in the game are interesting, keep you guessing, and present you with many jaw dropping moments 
 that you wouldn't have believed were to be true. It makes many numerous connections between separate 
 mysteries in the game that instantly make the story almost virtually flawless. Professor Layton 
 and the Curious Village have got to have the best story I have seen in a game in a LOOOONG time. 
 
  
  (Letter Grade: B+) 
  Gameplay: Since the game is a puzzle game than you will most likely be solving. uh. puzzles, duh. 
 You will explore your environments in the game by using the touch screen, just tap where you want 
 to go, and who you want to talk to and you will be on your way. The puzzles in the game are challenging 
 and some are frustrating, but they are NOT impossible to solve. The puzzles require you to have 
 a more open mind, not all answers can be solved through calculations, and sometimes puzzles are 
 easier than you think. With the hint system in the game, all puzzles should be answerable. The 
 only downside is that the hint system requires hint coins (coins you find by tapping hidden spots 
 in the environments) . If you happen to run out of hint coins and you get stuck on a hard puzzle, 
 than you might as well just flush your head in a toilet, or you can go on the internet and find 
 the solutions, but only cheaters do that. I would never do that, well I might have, only once or 
 twice.. Anyways I thought the puzzles were cleverly crafted, but I sort of wished that the puzzles 
 used more of the DS's unique functions, such as the mic, in the game. It was still a fun, enjoyable, 
 and sometimes stressful experience. 
  
  (Letter Grade: A-) 
  Graphics: Let's simply say that the graphics in Professor Layton and the Curious Village are absolutely 
 gorgeous. The art style within the game looks like something that is out of an old classic anime 
 TV-show, and that isn't a bad thing. The lush environments are beautiful, and very detailed, but 
 sadly they weren't that interactive. There are also a wide variety of colorful characters within 
 the game that are very distinct from one another. What really impressed me though were the short 
 animated cut scenes in the game, it was like watching a cartoon on my DS, and it just goes to show 
 that not all cut scenes have to be CG like Final Fantasy to be great. 
  
  (Letter Grade: B) 
  Sound: The voice acting in the game was pretty good. The music was also catchy, 
 well in the beginning. The game recycles the same music over and over in the game. Every time you 
 try to solve a puzzle the same music pops up, it can get annoying at times especially if you are 
 having a hard time on a puzzle and you are trying to concentrate; it will want to make you turn 
 down the volume too. The in-game music isn't necessarily bad, but I just wish it had more variety. 
 It also wouldn't had hurt if the game featured characters who used real voice, I don't mind reading 
 text but Nintendo has to step up its game thins generation by using voice actors. 
  
  (Final Letter Grade: A-)
  Overall: Professor Layton and the Curious Village is surprisingly an 
 wonderful game. It has a deep involving story, challenging but fair puzzles, and beautiful visuals 
 all squeezed into one package. I will say this though, Professor Layton and the Curious Village 
 isn't a game that will appeal to everybody, if you are patient, have a little interest in puzzles, 
 and want to see something fresh and new in the market than by all means get the game. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: mircea_calarasu
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 22, 2008 5:40 am PT
Review:  I was very high on this game before it's release. So right from the beginning I had high expectations 
 for this little puzzler. I had to admit so far it has not let me down.
  
  Right off the bat we are introduced to the game through gorgeous cut scenes, and some of the best 
 voice work that I have seen on the DS to date. The backgrounds are very earthy, and you almost 
 seem to melt right into them. The characters are quirky, and also well done. I can't wait to get 
 to know them better. The music is appropriate, all in all the presentation is top notch.
  
  Before long you are thrown into you first puzzle. From the very first puzzle I found myself addicted. 
 The puzzles are fresh, even those that we have seen before are done with beautiful pictures and 
 background stories. The game play is well done, the touch screen is very responsive, and I have 
 yet to have a problem with the controls.
  
  To be honest, the only reason I put it down was because my DS needed to be recharged. :) If you 
 enjoy a good brain teaser than this is a must have for your collection. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ThePimpEdwin
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 18, 2008 5:11 pm PT
Review:  this game is for all great puzzle lovers it's hard but it has a great storyline that you will not 
 see coming and you can download new puzzles every friday via wi-fi this game really get's you to 
 thinkand is fun playing because you will learn how easy puzzles are when your'e done with game 
 and it's a great game the bad thing about is that they don't explain the puzzles enough and if 
 you need to get hints to help you they really don't help you out as much as you would expect it's 
 a great game but what interested me the most is the storyline it's incredible you will not see 
 it coming the game will elude you from star to finish until the professor explains to you whats 
 going on with puzzles that you have to right numbers to puzzles that all you have to do is get 
 a red brick out of the pile this game is a MUST have for all puzzle lovers out there 
  but all in all great game it's full of suspence and you will be shocked of the outcome it's perfect 
 for anyone to getr unless you're 6 or an alien! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pspeck_1
Rating: 8.5
Date: Mar 17, 2008 8:24 am PT
Review:  The Curious Village was a surprise to gamers, due to it's radical new style and technique, but 
 some reviews have not touched upon some of the negatives, as much as the game is fun.
  
  First of all, the video is truly gorgeous, created by the same video development group as 
  Metroid: 
 Prime Hunters, and was always a thrill to watch. The story was quite good, but I am slightly annoyed 
 that I had guessed some elements of plot before Layton and his sidekick Luke finally caught on. 
 The European village truly has a style that was pinned down quite well, but British slang such 
 as "telly" when used seemed out of place and fake. The puzzles were very good, fun, and at times 
 slightly overly difficult, but enjoyed nonetheless. Everybody, their aunts, uncles and cats have 
 a puzzle for you, and you, at times feel overwhelmed with the amount of random puzzles coming in 
 your way when the story yearns to advance for your enjoyment. Though the purpose for all these 
 puzzles will be revealed in the story, you can't help but wish for a bit of a change of pace ( What's 
 a DS game without a mini game?)
  
  Overall, there was a good solid amount of fun, challenging puzzles, better and fun than any "Brain 
 Age game"
  I had good fun with this one, and will have more when I download the weekly Wi-fi puzzles. All 
 I can say is there is no reason why you shouldn't buy this game if you want something different 
 or are a fan of the genre, then by all means ,but I personally expect better for the sequel, "Professor 
 Layton and Pandora's Box.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: firebirdboi06
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 15, 2008 9:22 pm PT
Review:  Professor Layton and the Curious Village may very well be the first sleeper hit of 2008. How come? 
 Even with the success of Brain Age and other such titles, a game with a storyline AND puzzles comes 
 off to me as a big surprise in being a powerful combination to create an inticing game experience.
 
  
  One of the big marketing ploys by Nintendo was to advertise a video codec utilized in the game 
 for anime cutscenes utilized in important scenes. It's nice to see, and makes me think Professor 
 Layton could make a good stand-alone anime. However, it feels under utilized. While I imagine there's 
 not enough space on the DS card for more, I would've liked to see more of them in several key scenes.
 
  
  The primary gameplay element, the puzzles, are numerous and varied. You'll find yourself solving 
 mathematical equations, solving logic puzzles and moving a very annoying little red ball into a 
 hole. No, I don't hold grudges toward it... 
  
  The story itself is the real star. It plays out like a mystery novel, although it seems to be a 
 bit too predictable. I didn't get a sense of "What's gonna happen next." out of it. That being 
 said, it's well crafted and features lots of unique characters.
  
  After your story is through, chances are that you will have some unsolved puzzles, but each week 
 you'll have a new puzzle to solve through Nintendo's Wi-Fi service. Unfortunately, I wasn't able 
 to gauge the difficulty or see if they're worthwhile.
  
  In the end, Professor Layton and the Curious Village is a great introduction to some good characters, 
 and I can't wait to see what comes along in the coming sequels. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Meimi
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 14, 2008 10:12 pm PT
Review:  Professor Layton and the Curious Village is easy enough to describe. It is quirky and cute and 
 may infuriate the player from time to time. Anyone who has played any sort of brain teaser games 
 will recognize this to be the hallmark of a good one. Professor Layton is mostly a point and click 
 type adventure with puzzles thrown into the mix. The puzzles vary in difficulty, from the elementary 
 to the type that might make you want to bash your head against the nearest available wall. Multiple 
 times.
  
  The inhabitants of the village of St. Mystere are indeed a curious lot who will demand that you 
 solve said puzzles if you wish to advance the plot. The plot is where the cute and quirky comes 
 into play. It's not that hard to come up with viable theories early in the game, but the reveals 
 are generally delivered in entertaining enough ways to keep even the most blase of mystery fans 
 amused. The voice acting goes well with the setting of an English countryside; and the music, while 
 repetitive in places, doesn't grate on the senses. The sporadic anime style cutscenes are also 
 well done and aid well in telling the story.
  
  Overall, Professor Layton and the Curious Village does what it sets out to do. It delivers an interesting 
 game that will make you think (and possibly scream in rage) and keep you entertained for however 
 long you can keep poking at the DS screen. Just remember that there is an off switch should the 
 urge to throw something out of frustration arise. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bones2515
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 12, 2008 7:29 am PT
Review:  Professor Layton and the Curious Village is unlike any game I've ever played. Puzzle after puzzle 
 after puzzle, but with a story. It's amazing to me that they've managed to tie a story (a pretty 
 good one) into a game that is obviously designed just for the puzzles.
  
  I'm writing this after having finished the game and completing the 120 puzzles within normal gameplay. 
 I've also finished most of the bonus puzzles at this point, but not all yet. I would say that 95% 
 of the puzzles are great. That leaves approximately 7 or eight puzzles in the whole game that stink. 
 It's well worth playing these bad ones to get through the rest.
  
  Professor Layton himself is an interesting character, but his ability to figure things out far 
 exceeds mine. The ending was a total surprise to me, but Layton was a few steps ahead. In any case, 
 he's a great character and it was a blast playing as logical professor Layton. His young sidekick 
 however I found a little annoying, but the character definitely added to the storyline.
  
  The game is presented very well visually with neat little animations after each puzzle. Also there 
 are cut scenes with excellent artwork. The game had many voice clips that added a great deal to 
 the games audio (especially since the music could get a little tedious) . I would often turn off 
 the sound when working on a particularly difficult puzzle.
  
  My final comment refers to the puzzles themselves. Almost none of them are easy. You'll get them 
 eventually, but if you think you've got the answer in five seconds I can guarantee you're wrong. 
 After finishing a number of puzzles I realized that when I thought I knew the answer for sure, 
 unless I took my time and thought it through a number of different ways, I was going to be incorrect. 
 Once you understand this though, the game becomes even more fun as you try and determine what the 
 REAL answer is even though you've got one in your head.
  
  All in all, this was an excellent game and I would recommend it to anyone who enjoys puzzles and 
 mysteries. Some of the puzzles might be difficult for a younger audience though. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Bulldawg8879
Rating: 8
Date: Mar 8, 2008 12:39 pm PT
Review:  Professor Layton and the Curious Village
  Although I had never heard of the game before I read a Review of it, I thought damn what a great 
 idea for a game and so I got it by selling off a few of my older less played DS games.. I will 
 say I am not disappointed by the game and it balances its difficulty very well.. while never having 
 impossibly difficult puzzles like a lot of games do but while having some pretty challenging ones 
 mixed in with very easy but satisfying puzzles. There are a lot of different types most of which 
 use logic to figure them out.. The game is set up in chapters most of which revolve around solving 
 the mystery of the Golden apple and the ending is really well done and well thought out.. The graphics 
 are colorful and cartoonish and the cutscenes are really done well for a DS game.. The story is 
 pretty interesting as well and kept me playing although not as much as some games because I did 
 put this game aside for a few days and then went back to it.. The music is original and well done 
 to and stands out from other games.. Even after you finish it you can download more puzzles and 
 do the extra difficult challenge puzzles which I have not attempted yet.. Overall this game is 
 worth it and it took me about 15 hours to get through it without completeing all of the puzzles 
 in the game.. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DrFish62
Rating: 7.5
Date: Mar 7, 2008 2:11 pm PT
Review:  Innovation is an interesting topic in the video game industry. We often hear complaints about publishers 
 relying too heavily on sequels that don't introduce enough new ideas to tried-and-true formulas. 
 On the other hand, some truly new and innovative ideas go largely unnoticed by consumers. Perhaps, 
 then, the success of recent titles like Puzzle Quest and Patapon suggest a new direction for developers. 
 Rather than take risks with an unproven design philosophy, it may be best to take successful ideas 
 from different genres and blend them together to create new yet familiar experiences. Professor 
 Layton and the Curious Village does just that. Borrowing the best aspects of adventure and puzzle 
 games, Level 5 creates an experience that is both familiar and refreshing.
  
  As the story begins, Professor Layton and his young apprentice, Luke, are called to the village 
 of St. Mystere to investigate a mysterious will. It seems that Lady Dahlia requires your assistance 
 to recover the Golden Apple, an heirloom that will dictate how her late husband's fortune will 
 be divided. To find the treasure and solve the mystery of St. Mystere, you'll explore the streets 
 of the village, talk with the inhabitants, and collect clues. In this way, Curious Village resembles 
 traditional point-and-click adventure games as you use your stylus to move, talk, and search for 
 clues.
  
  Along the way, you'll find that the villagers are hesitant to cooperate with your investigation 
 unless you first help them solve a riddle. Solving these riddles takes up the majority of your 
 time in St. Mystere, and for good reason. They're quite difficult. Puzzles range in theme from 
 simple word play and mathematics to involved logic puzzles and obtuse brainteasers. If you get 
 stuck on one problem, you can always come back to it later armed with up to three hint coins that 
 you find hidden throughout the village. There are a limited number of these coins available, but 
 you should always have enough to get you through the most difficult puzzles. You're also given 
 an unlimited amount of time to solve the brainteasers, as many of them involve computations or 
 scenarios that must be worked out with your stylus on the screen.
  
  Playing through the adventure will take most people about 15 hours, but there is plenty to do once 
 you've completed the story. The game has well over 120 puzzles, and you only need to complete two 
 thirds of them to finish the game. You'll want to explore the village to find hidden puzzles and 
 collect objects to unlock more challenging brainteasers. Nintendo is also offering free, weekly 
 puzzles for download via the Nintendo WiFi Connection, so you'll certainly get your money's worth 
 for purchasing the game.
  
  Speaking of value, you'll notice a consistently high production level throughout Professor Layton. 
 The game's charming visuals are conveyed through impressive FMV sequences or artful still shots 
 reminiscent of childhood storybook classics. Voice acting, a rare treat for a Nintendo title, is 
 of similarly high quality. Unfortunately, most of the time you'll find yourself playing with the 
 audio turned down because the music can easily become repetitive and grating. 
  
  If you enjoy adventure games for their story or puzzle games for their imaginative brainteasers, 
 Professor Layton and the Curious Village is easy to recommend. As long as you can handle the occasional 
 obtuse riddle, Level 5 has created a great addition to your portable library that's easy to pick 
 up and play for a few minutes or long stretches of time. They've also proven that you don't have 
 to reinvent the wheel to create a unique game experience. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: toriphilewill
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 7, 2008 11:14 am PT
Review:  If you like puzzles, then you will love this game. At the introduction of the game I noticed something 
 that I have yet to see in any NDS game. Video. The game opens up with a well done animated story 
 video. 
  
  The Good:
  This game has a story. It would be easy for any publisher to throw together a bunch of puzzles 
 and call it a video game. In fact some do! What I feel sets this game apart from others in this 
 genre, is the fact that there is a story that keeps you interested and involved. Usually games 
 that are released for the Nintendo DS are branded/marketed toward children and young adults. I 
 was surprised at the difficulty of some of these puzzles. The puzzles are formulated around the 
 types of questions you would see on a MENSA exam. Almost all puzzles in the game made me think, 
 and that is a good thing. (I am a research scientist, and puzzles are my thing) With that said, 
 I don't know who the target audience for this game is supposed to be. The story boards, effective 
 use of the touch screen, and replay value all set the puzzle standard pretty high. 
  
  The Bad:
  There is always something to complain about. Personally I find the puzzles the perfect 
 difficulty, but I rated this game Very Hard difficulty level. When you compare this game to other 
 DS games, well it is very hard. I can image many young adults having a great deal of difficulty, 
 to the point of frustration with many of these puzzles, since they have yet to take basic math 
 such as geometry. I could also poke at the story a bit. The puzzles do not exist to help you solve 
 any mysteries, they pretty much stand on their own. 
  
  Overall I have a good taste in my mouth after playing this game. Wireless download of new weekly 
 puzzles is a great idea (though not difficult enough for me) . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Whiteghost09
Rating: 8.5
Date: Mar 6, 2008 7:03 pm PT
Review:  OK ,I'll, admit it, this is my first puzzle game. I picked it up bbecause I had heard about the 
 great story, and how the puzzles were woven into the gameplay. I'm usually not a fan of puzzle 
 games, but Professor Layton suprised me.
  You start off with Professor Layton and his "apprentice," Luke, who arrive at St. Mystere, a mysterious 
 town, former home of the rich and famous Baron Reinhold. Your purpose their is to discover the 
 location of the Golden Apple, or the late Baron's fortune. And so your adventure begins. The town 
 and it's puzzle loving inhabitants all have a unique, cartoony, endearing style to them, making 
 the character design one of the better sides to this game. To advance the story, you must traverse 
 the town, solving puzzles to get the people to give you information and using point -and-click 
 investigation to find hint coins. Hint coins, which you can unlock if you're having trouble with 
 a puzzle, are very helpful, and are a key element in puzzle solving. You can't spend them frivolously, 
 however, since there are only a limited number in the town. The whole story and investigation part 
 of the game are done perfectly - the writing is great, and the story is unique and immersive. However, 
 the game contains some short cinematic scenes, which look great and fit in to the story well, but 
 the voice acting is absolutely atrocious. Especially Luke. Ugghhh. Anywho, on to the puzzles. I 
 think they are designed and woven into the story quite well. Barring about 5 to 10 confusing ones 
 you'll need to look at FAQS for, most of them are quite ingenious. I really like the ones where 
 you can use touch control to move things around and find the answer. There are quite a few mathematical, 
 heavy thinking ones, too. I didn't like those too well, but that's just me ( I don't like math) .
 
  All in all, Professot L is an awesome game, best in the genre, and one of the top DS games out 
 there. If you're like me and have never played a puzzle game before, go on, try it. It won't disappoint 
 (unless you hate to think, then you're in trouble) . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: princesszelda
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 6, 2008 7:33 am PT
Review:  The Nintendo DS harbors many brain testing and puzzle games. With so many of these games out on 
 the handheld many of them are fairly similar and tend to not offer anything new. Level 5, the makers 
 of Professor Layton and the Curious Village, decided not to follow suit and made a game that is 
 the perfect mixture of the puzzle and adventure genres.
  
  Professor Layton and his young apprentice, Luke, have been asked to find the mysterious "Golden 
 Apple" that is located somewhere in the village of St. Mystere. The baron of the village Augustus 
 Reinhold has died and left the "Golden Apple" behind in his will. Reinhold's wife, Lady Dahlia, 
 is in dire need of the Professors assistance. Once Professor Layton and Luke arrive to the curious 
 village they realize that the quest for the "golden apple" isn't the only mystery that needs solving. 
 
  
  The premise of this game is quite simple. You walk around the town and talk to people in order 
 to get clues to help further along the investigation. In order to get the clues from the villagers 
 you must first help them by solving puzzles. There is a wide variety of puzzles which includes 
 logic, matchsticks, sliding and a bit of math for good taste. 
  
  Each puzzle is worth a certain amount of points. The more difficult puzzles are worth more points 
 while the easier puzzles are worth less. If you submit a wrong answer to a puzzle you will lose 
 points but it doesn't matter in the long run because the points aren't used for anything in the 
 game. The point system feels useless. If there was a way that the points could be utilized then 
 it would have made sense to have the point system. But since there isn't, the only thing the points 
 are good for is determining the difficulty of each puzzle. 
  
  While some of the puzzles can be challenging they never feel like they are extremely hard. The 
 fact that there isn't a time limit for each puzzle is a plus because it actually gives you a chance 
 to take your time to come up with the correct answer. Hint coins are also vastly spread around 
 the village to assist you whenever you are stuck on a puzzle. Beware though; each puzzle only consists 
 of the hint each. 
  
  The graphics in the game are quite impressive. From the looks of the environment and the characters 
 the game has a European feel to it. The characters have a simple hand drawn look to them which 
 sets the tone for the presentation of the game. It might seem like the graphics are geared towards 
 a younger audience because of its simplicity but they really are impressive. 
  
  At the start of the game the music is bearable. Sadly it wasn't too long before the volume on my 
 DS was turned all the way down. The music is the same repetitive tune that is played while walking 
 around the village and solving puzzles. Even though the music can be annoying it is exciting to 
 finally hear a DS game with amazing voice acting. Unfortunately the voice acting doesn't happen 
 too often, and when it does it is only Professor Layton and Luke that actually speak. It would 
 have been nice to hear some of the other characters voices but in the end the voice acting is more 
 than satisfying. 
  
  Unlike most games, once you complete the game there isn't a harder difficulty that unlocks. There 
 is, however, still some bonus content that definitely makes the game valuable. One of the most 
 interesting bonuses would have to be the weekly downloadable puzzles. These puzzles can be downloaded 
 through the Nintendo Wi-Fi feature and will be saved on the DS cartridge. The addition of these 
 weekly puzzles makes this game one that you will be playing months from now. If the weekly puzzles 
 aren't enough for you there is always the option to find and complete all one hundred thirty one 
 puzzles in the game. There are also several hidden pieces located throughout the village such as 
 gizmo pieces and painting scraps that can be put together like a jigsaw puzzle to complete a painting. 
 
  
  All in all, Professor Layton and the Curious Village is an amazing adventure game that does a great 
 job of incorporating challenging puzzles and an interesting story. All DS owners should definitely 
 consider playing this game. 
  
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: bededog
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 2, 2008 5:09 pm PT
Review:  After being out for over a year in Japan Professor Layton finally makes it stateside and boy was 
 it worth the wait. The story has tons of twists and turns and has amazing cut-scenes. The puzzles 
 are well made and challenging. With nearly 150 puzzles and counting Professor Layton will keep 
 you entertained for quite a while.
  
  Our story begins with the death of Baron Reinhold. The late Baron didn't leave his vast riches 
 to anyone in particular, but instead offered a challenge to anyone who dares to do so. That challenge 
 is to find the Golden Apple, whoever so finds the Golden Apple will be the rightful inheritance 
 of the fortune. A person interested in getting the Golden Apple is one Lady Dahlia, but she can't 
 do it alone so she asks for the help of the gentleman Professor Layton. Professor Layton is world 
 renowned for his unique puzzle solving abilities and being the gentleman he is he couldn't refuse 
 a humble request from a fine lady. So Professor Layton along with his apprentice Luke head to St. 
 Mystere to unravel its secrets and find the Golden Apple.
  
  
  Professor Layton is a point and click game. You move around St. Mystere by taping on people to 
 talk to them and interact with objects. You can move using on screen arrows to automatically walk 
 to another area. The bulk of the story is told through normal cutouts and text. But they throw 
 in some very well done cut-scenes here and there. The cut-scenes are well animated, sound great, 
 and fit with the game perfectly. And with the great story that has surprises at every twist and 
 turn it's a worthwhile experience to play through.
  
  
  The main gameplay in Professor Layton isn't walking around the village though, it's the puzzles. 
 You can find puzzles everywhere, the villagers will give you puzzles, taping on objects will give 
 you hidden puzzles, etc. Now let's get one thing straight, theses are actual puzzles, ones you 
 are likely to find in your typical puzzle book. Most of the puzzles are very tricky as well and 
 you might spend half and hour on just one puzzle. Luckily they give you a hint system. You will 
 find coins throughout St. Mystere, these coins you can spend towards hints, although use them wisely 
 as you only have so many coins.
  
  
  The sheer variety of puzzles is astonishing. You have puzzles that will require all parts of your 
 brain. There are math problems, logic, trial and error, and numerous different types of puzzles. 
 All of the puzzles are well made and are going to push your critical and creative thinking to its 
 limits. This game is definitely not for someone who doesn't like puzzles or doesn't want to think 
 too hard.
  
  
  As you should have come to expect being a puzzle game Professor Layton isn't exactly a system pusher 
 graphics wise. But what the graphics do is give the game the feel you are in an old detective show 
 that compliments the story quite nicely. Everything has an antique feel to it and the cut-scenes 
 really feel like you are watching an old detective cartoon, which is awesome! And they added a 
 lot of detail to the characters; each one has their own look and feel to go along with the wide 
 variety of personalities in the game.
  
  
  Now we can get to the worst part of Professor Layton, the sound. The game only has a few musical 
 selections to choose from and they are repeated over and over again. Some of the music is catchy 
 but others are average and forgetful. There is only one background music while solving puzzles, 
 and since the majority of the game is solving the puzzles it will become very annoying after a 
 while and the mute button will become your friend in no time. But that's not to say there isn't 
 good music to be found. The music the game has is for the most part fitting with the game but it 
 just too repetitive. And the music, sounds, and voiceovers in the cut-scenes are done well too.
 
  
  
  Professor Layton also has a bit of replay value as well. You are only required to get around 80-90 
 of the puzzles solved to beat the game. St. Mystere holds a total of 120 puzzles in all. And you 
 can unlock even more puzzles by doing some choice things in the game I won't spoil here. And last 
 but not least there are weekly puzzles you download. So far there have been three, each ranging 
 in difficulty. But it seems some of them are going to be very hard to say the least, not that that 
 is a bad thing.
  
  Overall Professor Layton is a puzzle fan's greatest game. With the wide variety and difficulty 
 of the puzzles it will keep even the most avid puzzle player entertained. Put that together with 
 tons of replay content and a story worth playing through and you got yourself one heck of a good 
 game. In fact I would dare say it beats out many games for the title my favorite DS game in quite 
 a while, including games like Phantom Hourglass and Advance Wars Days of Ruin. But then again that's 
 just me. Either way Professor Layton is a great game that deserves a spot on any puzzle fan's library 
 of games.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: racine75
Rating: 8.5
Date: Mar 2, 2008 10:11 am PT
Review:  Although the storyline is a little too linear for my own taste, it provides a really charming setup 
 for the numerous puzzles waiting to be solved. The graphics are daring: a superb mix between mangas 
 and Tintin's adventures. The music works fine with the context and creates a smooth background 
 for thinking the riddles through. The voice acting is really good and increases the already great 
 quality of the FMV sequences. Some of the puzzles are old and well-known, but I haven't stumbled 
 on a single one that I felt was boring or too far-fetched, even though some puzzles can be very 
 trying. The gaming system is really well thought: you can find coins hidden in the scenery and 
 pay for hints towards the puzzle solutions, a reasonable number of puzzles make good use of the 
 stylus pen, and there is an impressive amount of extra puzzles to be discovered for yet more fun 
 once the game is over.
  Overall a game that is really worth acquiring. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gmrndlze
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 1, 2008 12:27 am PT
Review:  You are a top detective called upon to solve the mystery of the Golden Apple. What is this golden 
 apple? Well, it is up to you to figure it out. After the will of the recently diseased Baron of 
 St. Mystere is uncovered, it is brought upon that his entire earnings are located in this golden 
 apple.
  
  With this fact known, everyone is on the hunt for it but none have luck in attaining it. This is 
 where you come in and you must search the town for clues as to the where abouts of the apple.
 
  
  Professor Layton and the Curious Village is a game that is played out through a collection of puzzles. 
 Every villager has their own collections of puzzles to throw at you. While it isn't necessary to 
 solve every puzzle to win the game, it is fun and addicting trying to get em all. The puzzles at 
 first begin easy but progressively get much more difficult. 
  
  Scattered throughout the town are hint coins which you can use to purchase hints on puzzles that 
 seem too hard. I at first gathered quite a collection, but later on began to use them more frequently 
 as the difficultness of the puzzles got brutal. The thing with the puzzles that make em great is 
 that they are never too difficult. Yes they are hard, but with enough wit and cunning, you can 
 always come about the answer. (of course a good amount of hint coins can help too) . This is why 
 I suggest saving up coins at first for the latter puzzles
  
  All in all, there are 120 puzzles to uncover in this game with more to be found after meeting certain 
 conditions. Another great addition is the use of Wi-Fi, where you can download weekly puzzles for 
 free.
  
  The best part about this game is the story line. The story is amazing and it keeps you wanting 
 to go on further. There are a number of mysteries top be solved in the game, such as "What makes 
 that mysterious noise in the tower?" or "Who is this mysterious stranger?". All mysteries are solved 
 before the game's end and they all fit. The cut scenes are among the best that the DS has to offer 
 right now.
  
  In the end, Professor Layton and the Curious Village is an amazing that cannot be missed. Addicting 
 puzzles, great graphics, lovable characters, and tons of bonus content await you in this wonderful 
 game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Junior_AIN
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 27, 2008 5:26 pm PT
Review:  Professor Layton and the Curious Village is a pretty well made puzzle game for the DS, it has many 
 qualities but the main attractive are the puzzles, they go from logic to math, some of them are 
 fairly simple, some not so much, but none cross the line of being frustrating, and if it does, 
 you can always exchange some hint coins for some good tips of how to solve the one you're having 
 trouble, each puzzle have three tips, the first being the least helping and the last one giving 
 you the best tips, but only if you need it, because even though you get a lot of hint coins throughout 
 the game, and probably will have a whole lot when you finish the game, you wouldn't throw away 
 coins just for fun.
  
  The game is absolutely slow paced fun, so if you seek for an action filled game, this probably 
 is not the best choice, it's also not the best choice for those not familiar with the English language, 
 as you basically will just be around searching for clues and talking to the villagers about the 
 strange events occurring at the place.
  
  The story is pretty important in a game like this, and on this game it was nicely made, it's set 
 towards Professor Layton and his assistant Luke, both come to town to solve the mystery of the 
 Golden Apple, which is an unknown object that should point how the fortune of the recently deceased 
 husband of Lady Dahlia should be split up, Lady Dahlia is the woman who mailed Professor to visit 
 the village and help solve the mystery. After reaching the town and initiating the investigations, 
 some strange and unusual events starts to occur in the town, and Professor and his assistant get 
 caught up in the middle of a mystery that soon enough Professor Layton realizes that there's a 
 lot more going on than just the matter of the Golden Apple. You can expect many twists and surprises 
 during the game.
  
  The controls are all set by the touch screen, all investigation, movement and menu controls, you 
 virtually don't even use the directional pad; there are lots of screens where you will navigate 
 and by touching several places you can get hint coins, hidden puzzles and other stuff depending 
 on what you touch.
  
  The Wi-FI feature is also present, this time you can connect your DS through the Internet to get 
 new puzzles, great way of making the game last longer, so if you finished every puzzle in the game 
 and is still aching for a good challenge, you can expect a brand new puzzle every week by going 
 online.
  
  The graphics do their job, you can even witness some neat FMV scenes, and with voice over! Because 
 the places are practically just sceneries with no motion at all and the graphics during puzzles 
 are very simple too, you won't find any visual greatness, but the screens are very nice and create 
 a good atmosphere.
  
  The sound is very relaxing, some can find it a little repetitive, but when you're thinking about 
 some hard puzzle you probably don't need any sound, plus the voice over during scenes are pretty 
 well made.
  
  So if you like games that makes you think and some good puzzle challenge, this game is for you! 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: AlmightyMax
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 27, 2008 4:54 pm PT
Review:  The Japanese game studio Level-5 has become quite well-known among the JRPG community over the 
 last few years. They've continually pumped out quality RPG's across a variety of systems, including 
 Dragon Quest VIII and Dark Cloud on the PS2, Jeanne D'Arc for the PSP, as well as the upcoming 
 DS exclusive Dragon Quest IX. But while the games may vary in title and story elements, they've 
 all been alike in their anime-influenced artistic direction and their traditional RPG gameplay.
 
  
  But both these elements have been completely cast aside in their latest, Professor Layton and the 
 Curious Village for the Nintendo DS. Level-5's decided to try something completely different by 
 mixing adventure and puzzle game elements with a decidedly European art style and story. There's 
 no denying the studio's got something unique on their hands. The question is, have they got a winner?
 
  
  Pretty much the best aspect of Professor Layton is the story and characters, which will keep you 
 engaged throughout like any adventure game should. Professor Layton, a level-headed puzzle master, 
 gets invited to the aptly named St. Mystere to help the family of the late Baron Reinhold. The 
 recently deceased baron had left behind clues to a treasure called the Golden Apple, and declared 
 whoever found it would inherit his entire estate. Naturally, the town's residents are all seeking 
 the elusive treasure, and have allowed rather sinister happenings to take place in their usually 
 sleepy town. A member of the Reinhold household is murdered shortly after Professor Layton arrives, 
 and kidnappings have become something of a daily occurrence. The townspeople believe that the foreboding 
 Tower in the village's centre is somehow the cause of all this, but they're all too frightened 
 to investigate it. Mysteries seem to pop up at every corner, and the game's finale will leave you, 
 quite simply, wowed.
  
  While the story, on its own, is more than compelling enough to keep you playing, it's the many 
 unique characters that make Professor Layton such a joy. The numerous denizens of St. Mystere all 
 have their own distinctive personalities, no matter how small a part they may play. The cool and 
 collected Layton, for example, is a great contrast of his hot-headed and quick tempered apprentice 
 Luke. It's pretty much guaranteed that with this many unique characters, you'll find one you can 
 relate with before too long. 
  
  Gameplay in Professor Layton is an interesting affair. The bulk of the gameplay is made up of mind-warping 
 brainteasers, although it's presented in an old-school point-and-click fashion that makes it the 
 perfect game for gamers and nongamers alike. The game's 120 puzzles are based off of Akira Tago's 
 Mental Gymnastics puzzle books, which are extremely popular in Japan and have sold over twelve 
 million copies to date. The puzzles can get quite difficult, sometimes intentionally throwing you 
 off the right track, but the game never feels frustrating thanks to a hint system that'll point 
 you towards the right answer but still leave you feeling like you've accomplished something when 
 you solve it. There's a load of variety here, too; you get sliding puzzles, riddles, probability 
 and simple math problems, picture puzzles, and (my old nemesis!) water pitcher puzzles, to name 
 but a few. The only time you'll ever feel like you're doing the same thing over and over again 
 is when you choose too pursue a certain puzzle type.
  
  Tying these puzzles together is a simple point-and-click interface merged seamlessly into the rest 
 of the game. Like in PC classics of old, you'll be running around a large hub area, talking to 
 NPC's to gather information on the mystery at hand. The difference here is that most villagers 
 won't cough up what they know straight away. All of St. Mystere's inhabitants have a strange fetish 
 for puzzles, and will more than likely throw one your way before telling you anything they know. 
 It's a welcome change from the usual point-and-click puzzles where you must try every item you 
 have on every item in the environment, resulting in much less frustrating experiences than the 
 norm. The only real complaint here is that it's far too easy to cheat. Before facing a tough puzzle 
 you could save, check out all the hints, and then turn it off to save hint coins; or guess the 
 answer and then reset the system to get a perfect score on the puzzle. There's no penalty for either 
 of these 'techniques', which is rather disappointing for us honest folk.
  
  One thing Professor Layton delivers in spades is content. The substantial single-player quest will 
 last most gamers eight to ten hours depending on skill level, and finding and solving all the hidden 
 puzzles could take another ten on top of that. But it doesn't end there! Finishing all the main 
 game's puzzles will unlock two massive puzzles that take much more time and thought than the bite-sized 
 brainteasers. In one you'll have to furnish Layton and Luke's hotel rooms using clues they'll give 
 you, and another massive jigsaw puzzle could easily take hours to complete. On top of this, free 
 puzzles are available for weekly download off of Nintendo WFC, super-difficult challenges are unlocked 
 after completing certain requirements, and bonuses such as an art gallery and a sound test will 
 tide you over until the second game comes to the US (hopefully) later this year.
  
  Along with the top-notch story, gameplay, and extras, Professor Layton sports an absolutely wonderful 
 look. Much like the gameplay, the artistic design is radically different from anything Level-5's 
 done previously, eschewing their usual anime-influenced, cel-shaded look for a more European aesthetic 
 that will likely remind some of the French animated movie 'The Triplets of Bellville'. Key story 
 moments are told through fully-voiced full motion videos that look simply incredible, and each 
 character design is as distinctive as their personality (if not always easy on the eyes) . The sound, 
 for the most part, also fairs well; the voice work is top-notch for a DS game and the music is 
 simple but memorable... If only the puzzle-solving song changed as the game moved along.
  
  When all is said and done, Professor Layton is the year's first must-have DS title. Taken alone, 
 the puzzle and adventure elements may not seem like much but together they make for something unique 
 that ought to be experienced by gamers everywhere. Don't pass up on what's sure to be one of the 
 freshest gaming experiences of 2008. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: brandonthesaint
Rating: 9.5
Date: Feb 27, 2008 8:11 am PT
Review:  Before I start talking about Professor Layton and the Curious Village I just want to say that this 
 game is not for children, the puzzles get to be impossible and the story is deep and somewaht depressinng. Okay? 
 so on with the review.
  PL didn't really appeal to me, I would rather Ninja Gaiden DS than Brain Age, but after reading 
 GameSpot's review I wanted to get it.
  The story, of course, starts out that PL has to go find the Golden Apple in the village of St. Mystere. 
 The story devlops into something totally different, and sets you off on something totally irrevelent. 
 You do though have to solve puzzles and riddles to get more information to progress. The puzzles 
 in PL range from hard to impossible and sometimes one puzzle will take you days to figure out. 
 The story is diffiently a high not in PL, it may actually be one of the best puzzle/mysteries ever! 
 To break up all the reading in PL they put fully voice acted cartoons in between the major key 
 moments. PL is praticuly a much hard Brain Age puzzle game with a story. I really enjoyed PL and 
 it was on of the few games where I couldn't put own my DS. If you have DS, consider it, if you 
 like puzzles, buy it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Swoosie
Rating: 9.5
Date: Feb 27, 2008 7:03 am PT
Review:  The DS has seen its fair share of "shovelware" puzzle & "brain exercise" titles in the last year, 
 thanks to the success of Brain Age and Big Brain Academy. Sadly, most of them are pretty pathetic, 
 shallow, and look like something that would pass as a free web game on a PC.
  
  I picked up Professor Layton after seeing a huge Professor Layton-themed Nintendo DS stand at a 
 local WalMart (of all places) . They were clearly pushing the DS as the perfect portable gaming 
 system for adults (as it has been in Japan for years) , and using Professor Layton as the catalyst. 
 
  
  The game is a wonderful mix of adventuring and brain puzzles... just about every puzzle type you 
 can imagine are included: number puzzles, traditional riddles, visual brain teasers, mazes, and 
 so on. They are intermingled inside an adventure game and related story that keep you exploring 
 and puzzle solving until the wee hours of the morning. It's definitely one of those "just one more" 
 experiences that we love (funfunfun) and hate (I need sleep...) . 
  
  Everything in the game is done wonderfully, from the story, to the characters throughout the game, 
 to the in-game dialog, to the TV-quality fully animated and voiced cut-scenes, to the interface 
 for the puzzles themselves. This is no "shovelware" title, and features such nice touches as a 
 weekly wifi-downloadable puzzle (hey Nintendo, how about WPA wireless support?!?) and a neat "hint 
 token" system to help you along just enough without making the game stupidly easy.
  
  This is also a game your kids can play -- though I'd set the minimum age at about 11 or so due 
 to the difficulty of some of the puzzles. 
  
  Buy it, and enjoy some sleepless nights with Professor Layton and his sidekick Luke. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: JAB991
Rating: 8.5
Date: Mar 3, 2008 6:28 pm PT
Review:  Professor Layton is really something great. It seemlessly blends adventure and puzzle genres into 
 one almost super-game. The puzzles are pleantiful and there are new ones released every week if 
 you still want more. They can be extremely difficult, but they're never at a MENSA level and you'll 
 never want to give up the game. The art style is also very good and the cutscenes are great and 
 feel like a really good cartoon. It also has a very interesting plot, something missing in many 
 puzzle games nowadays.
  
  WIth that said, there are some drawbacks to the experience. It's very text-heavy, which isn't necessarily 
 bad, but after watching a few great cutscenes you'll really wish there were more of them. The voice 
 acting is mediocre at best where all the characters are acted fine but the character of Luke is 
 just annoying when he speaks. The music is also annoying, especially after listening to it repeat 
 over and over from puzzle to puzzle or during a particularly long and difficult puzzle.
  
  Overall, Professor Layton and the Curious Village is really a blast. It's addictive and fast paced. 
 You don't spend too much time doing nothing as most of the time is spent either engaging you in 
 the story are throwing non-stop puzzles at you. Though he may not take the crown from Phoenix Wright 
 as the king of adventure games on the DS, the game is very easy to recommend and it makes me excited 
 for when the next Professor Layton gets its US release. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: scorpion1197
Rating: 9.5
Date: Feb 25, 2008 9:43 pm PT
Review:  This Game has excellent sound that actually can put you in a trance if your wearing headphones 
 and staring down a puzzle.
  
  I love the detctive work without playing a detective, the idea that you are just a plain old proffesor 
 looking into a will is quite fun.
  
  Along the way you meet very intersting people and that is what the game is all about people this 
 village and why they like puzzles. Some of the best puzzles come from the proffessor when he is 
 trying to teach Luke a lesson.
  
  The game play along withthe puzzles is masterfully crafted and placed throughout the game so you 
 cannot make a move without having to solve some kind of riddle or tricky puzzle.
  
  The best is yet to come Level 5 you guys just know what your doing. I would really like to see 
 a series here just like a good book this game deserves more stories.
  
  It's almost magical how well it flows and how good you feel when you conquer a really tough puzzle. 
 believe me there are some doozies.
  
  Better than brain age ever better than brain2 better than challenge better than big brain academy, 
 the absolute best puzzle game ever for the DS series.
  
  Plus you get more puzzles every week just click new games and they are yours FREE!!! you cant beat 
 that. The game that just keeps on giving.
  
  I love the game I love the sound the voice acting is superb, the dialogue fantastic it is one everyone 
 who owns a DS/DS Lite should go out and buy it is fantastic fun and you will not feel taken for 
 your money. 
  
  Overall satisfaction A++++ You really want this one!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mortichai
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 25, 2008 7:35 pm PT
Review:  When I first heard about this particular game through advertisements over the internet, I was skeptical 
 of it because I wasn't sure as to whether or not it would be another marketing ploy of Nintendo's, 
 like Brain Age, Big Brain Academy or countless others. 
  
  Professor Layton and the Curious Village happens to take place in a village (duh, it's in the title) 
 called St. Mystere (instead of Saint Mystery) where he and his apprentice, Luke, have to solve 
 a variety of puzzles to unravel the tangled web of the plot of the story. I'm not going to spoil 
 the game in any way here. Just know that the story is good, there are FMVs in this game, the puzzles 
 really make you use your brain and give you a good challenge. The characters are quirky and entertaining.
 
  
  You feel great once you solve a puzzle all on your own, but you do get the option of having up 
 to three hints for each puzzle. Each puzzle that you correctly solve earns you picarats, which 
 are a type of currency. But looking around at certain places in St. Mystere, you can collect hint 
 coins which will assist you in having the possibility of using them for the hints, aforementioned.
 
  
  This game is great for the pick up and play gamer. And it's also a great way to use your brain 
 along with enjoying a great story. I recommend it as a buy because you'll want to show off to your 
 friends how good you are at puzzles by stumping them with these in the game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pculli
Rating: 9.5
Date: Feb 25, 2008 7:23 pm PT
Review:  What we have here is a classic for the Nintendo DS. A must-have for this great console. Never thought 
 a puzzle-related game would be that good, but its elements are so well combined that the result 
 of the equation gives a nearly perfect game.
  
  Let's analyze it's parts:
  It's graphics and cinematics are awesome, I mean, what a nice drawing and animation!, love the 
 characters, so well designed.
  The music may be a little repetitive but it doesn't reach the point of annoying you.
  The gameplay 
 is simply great and addictive, and you'll find an interesting and mysterious story really well 
 combined with lots of puzzles that will crush your mind at every moment.
  Other thing to highlight is the fact that you can actually download more puzzles from Nintendo's 
 CWF and once you've finished the game you unlock new features.
  
  I can say without a doubt that the best thing this game does is being a great combination of all 
 of its parts. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Humikimi
Rating: 9.5
Date: Feb 25, 2008 2:52 pm PT
Review:  I'm not one for puzzle games, and generally try to avoid them. It isn't that I don't enjoy thinking, 
 I would just rather spend my thinking time with my school work or something else, puzzles don't 
 entertain me. In fact, the only puzzle games I own are Meteos (the fast-paced gameplay keeps my 
 attention) and the Myst series if you count them. That being said, this game pulled me in through 
 its wonderful mystery story and its puzzles being based on logic.
  
  The gameplay is generally very simple. You move around the village talking to people to advance 
 the story and gain clues as you solve puzzles in order to gain these clues. The puzzles themselves 
 are also very easily controlled with the touch screen, which is fantastic because you don't have 
 to worry about complicated button presses. As you solve these puzzles you advance the story. That's 
 it. That being said, the puzzles range from being very very challenging to being very very easy. 
 There is a good balance of difficulty here and you will find that by the time you reach the end, 
 you will likely have a better understanding of how to solve these logic puzzles (try going out 
 to solve some logic puzzles after this game, I'm sure you'll have a better chance of doing them 
 then you did in the past) .
  
  The puzzles are fantastic, simple and yet complex. They are so well-crafted that you will find 
 each one extremely satisfying to complete. That being said, that's only half of the game. The other 
 half is the story. It is basically starts off as a mystery, where you go to this village upon invitation 
 to solve a mystery about an inheritance. It soon will get more and more complicated and there is 
 a nice plot twist as well. The story is mostly told through text dialogue and some fully animated 
 videos complete with voices and sound and music. In all honesty, there isn't much more to this 
 game besides the puzzles and the story, but after 20-30 minutes of sitting through the game, you'll 
 realize that that's all that is necessary to make it good. This pevents it from being too convoluted, 
 and so you can focus a little more. A nice little feature in the game is the Hint system. For every 
 puzzle there are 3 hints, that cost you hint coins (which are actually not hard to find for the 
 most part) . So if you are absolutely stuck on a puzzle, you can just look at a hint to nudge you 
 in the right direction, and each hint reveals a little more, so you can get as much information 
 as you feel is necessary to help you get going.
  
  The game looks fantastic. The villagers are all unique looking, the art style is appropriate and 
 well-drawn, and the videos (5+) look absolutely stunning. They are anime-style and look fantastic. 
 I haven't played a DS game yet with this much care put into its graphics, without having to pump 
 out exceedingly high technological accomplishments. The simplicity allows the game to exceed in 
 its style, rather than its power. 
  
  The voice acting is spot on. Granted sometimes it can sound a little cheesy (reminds me of English 
 dubbed anime) , but overall it sounds great. That being said, you'll only hear full voice acting 
 during the cutscenes, but there are a decent number of them so that's acceptable. The sound effects 
 are fairly limited (outside of the cutscenes, which sound well-placed in them) and simple, which 
 is ok because you don't really need much sound out of a game like this. The main thing you will 
 spend most of your time hearing is the music. It is both fantastic and disastrous. On one hand, 
 the 19 or so tracks you will hear are well composed and fit the moods falwlessly. On the other 
 hand, some of the music, especially the puzzle music, can grate into your brain and annoy you as 
 you try to solve a puzzle that may be giving you some difficulty. It would have been nice if there 
 was an option to turn off music during puzzles, though I suppose that is what the volume slider 
 is for. Still, overall the music, sound and voices are fitting and well done.
  
  Considering this is, in the end, nothing more than a collection of 135 puzzles, it will likely 
 last you a decent amount of time. It took me a little more than 10 hours to complete the whole 
 game 100%. This happens due to the cutscenes and dialogue for developing the story, on top of the 
 varying times you'll take to complete each puzzle.
  
  This game does have a lot to offer though. The main game consists of 100 puzzles, a great story 
 and some exploration that will require you to pay attention to detail. Outside of the main game 
 are a couple of sidequests to pursue. First of all you get painting pieces throughout the game, 
 and once you have them all you can put them together to make a picture (they are set up like jigsaw 
 puzzle pieces, so you just have to figure out how to make it work) . The other sidequest involves 
 furniture you will obtain throught the game. You will have to figure out who's room to place each 
 piece (out of the two main characters) in order to make each one happy. Both of these are nice 
 little diversions that will unlock bonuses.
  
  To add to that you have 20 specially hidden puzzles throughout the village that range in difficulty 
 and are not part of the 100 that make up the main game. There are also 15 extremely challenging 
 puzzles that you unlock by doing the sidequests 3 for each sidequest you complete (putting together 
 a gizmo, putting the right furniture, putting the painting together) , for completing the game and 
 lastly for completing all of the puzzles (minus the 3 final ones) . As if that wasn't enough, there 
 is also a secret to unlock that you can only get from the sequel (no idea what it is, since the 
 sequel is not released here yet) . upon completing the game, on top of the 3 bonus puzzles, you 
 will also unlock profiles for every character, some artwork from the game, a music player (for 
 all the music in the game) , a sound test for all the vocals (said by the two main characters) and 
 the ability to watch every one of the 16 videos from the game.
  
  As if that wasn't enough to make you feel like you get your money's worth, there is also a neat 
 little Wi-Fi function. Every week (starting from the 17th of February) the developers release a 
 new puzzle for you to solve, that are generally pretty challenging like the bonus puzzles. It is 
 a nice little addition (that I'm hoping will last until the release of the sequel) that will keep 
 you picking up the game... at least once a week. So far there have been two weekly puzzles released 
 (as of 2/15/08) . More games need to have ways of using the Wi-Fi like this. This shows an example 
 of how the Wi-Fi can be used with something besides multiplayer.
  
  To tell you the truth, this game came out of nowhere for me. I remember reading a short article 
 about it a while ago then never heard of it again. The game came out, I saw Gamespot's review and 
 decided to give it a try. This has to be one of the best games I had never heard of in a while. 
 Hats off to Level-5, and here's hoping they keep up the good work with the sequel. By the way, 
 this game should definately be in your collection if you own a DS. Enjoy.
  
  Gameplay: 9/10
  Graphics: 10/10
  Sound: 9/10
  Value: 10/10
  
  OVERALL: 9.5/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hugey
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 25, 2008 7:00 am PT
Review:  A puzzle detective and his young apprentice out to solve the greatest mystery of the town of St. 
 Mystere, the location of the golden apple!
  
  Gameplay: 
  The game pretty much is straightforward. Click, point, search and answer. There is however a lot 
 of backtracking to do but that doesn't lower the addictiveness of this game. At almost every corner, 
 there's a puzzle waiting for you to answer. 
  
  Graphics:
  Cool cut-scenes but don't bother about the main game itself. Much of it is more of a background 
 rather than a part of the game. This also doesn't put much bearing on the game itself.
  
  Sounds:
  Good voice acting for the part of the Professor and Luke. Not much going on for the 
 music part though. During puzzle solving, the music actually makes me sleepy.
  
  Lifespan:
  This game you can play for hours. I'm pretty sure a lot of us know most of the puzzles 
 in the game but there are tons that will make our brains work overtime. Highly addictive. Puzzle 
 game lovers should get this! 
  
  Another games review done. Till next time! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Archon_basic
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 24, 2008 5:37 pm PT
Review:  The way I see it Professor Layton and the Curious Village is comprised of three main elements: 
 You have the story, which always makes or breaks an adventure game. You have the bare basics of 
 the adventure game formula - in this case exploring a fairly small area and talking to people. 
 And finally you have a large and varied assortment of puzzles, which comprise the core of the gameplay. 
 Rather than traditional adventure game fare you'll consistently be pulled off to another screen 
 to solve various puzzles. This may not sound particularly appealing but the puzzles are entertaining 
 and the system works very well, which is a testament to the game's design. There are also a number 
 of side projects and more to do after you finish the game. It's not a particularly long game but 
 it is enjoyable from start to finish, and there is a lot packed into this small package.
  
  Don't expect anything epic from the story, but it is unique, entertaining, and leaves the player 
 wanting more. (And more isn't far off, by the way. The sequel is slated for later this year) Professor 
 Layton also features some top notch production values for a DS game. Voice overs, a good number 
 of cut scenes, and excellent artwork and attention to detail. The Professor is one of the best 
 characters to hit the DS.
  
  The puzzles were made especially for this game by puzzle master Akira Tago, who wrote the Mental 
 Gymnastics line of books in Japan. There are a wide variety of puzzles that make full use of the 
 touch screen. Some of them are real brain benders, but the game gives you the option of purchasing 
 hints if you really need the help. Level 5 did a great job of showcasing the puzzles and working 
 them into the flow of the game.
  
  The bottom line is that The Curious Village is an original, well made, and fun game. It's one of 
 those games that you can just tell the developers put a lot into. Among any system's library of 
 games are a few that stand out, and this is one such game. If you own a DS make sure Professor 
 Layton and the Curious Village winds up in your collection. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: frozenleaf
Rating: 9.5
Date: Feb 21, 2008 3:01 pm PT
Review:  First of all, I admit that I have let a few of my friends solved puzzles & even looked at some 
 walkthroughs. Seriously, some puzzles are really really tough.
  
  It starts with Professor Layton&Luke in the car, kind of a long intro but it'll do. For the rest 
 of the game, they've showed some 'movies'. They have actually gave a voice to Layton&Luke and others. 
 The entire game I've turned my music down (music was nothing special) , but when those short movies 
 came along, I'd plug in my earphones. It's pretty nice. 
  
  Sometimes, I wonder if it's my TouchScreen going crazy or the game? I mean, when finding hint coins, 
 I tap tap tap & after some tapping I finally get them. Maybe should have been more accurate?
  
  I love the storyline. There's an actual storyline! I've just finished it & when this & that 
 was solved, it all made sense! I let out a little 'wow' even. I don't want to spoil what was really 
 happening, but when you come to it, you'd wonder who'd be so clever to make this story up?
  
  Overall, very entertaining, exciting, enjoyable, fresh, little stressful awesome game & never 
 to be forgotten. It basically beats all the games I've previously played. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Succumbus
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 20, 2008 9:30 pm PT
Review:  This game is great. 
  
  It deserves the review it got. The puzzles are excellent, immersive, unique, and they all have 
 a certain twist to them. Every once in a while you'll bump into one that is seemingly impossible 
 and when you finally get the answer it seems like the puzzle was TOO hard and should have had a 
 bit more of a hint in the original answer, thankfully, those dont come around too often.
  
  The story is broken up into different mysteries. You see different things throughout exploring 
 the town which have different leads and puzzles/riddles are everywhere. The more puzzles and riddles 
 you do, the more you can do and the more points you get along with little miscellaneous mini-games 
 which add variety to the game.
  
  There are also animated cutscenes with full voice every once in a while, which adds a very good 
 taste to it. Good animation and clever design give this game its own dish, which can be a good 
 thing among many of the other games these days.
  
  So, if you are looking to buy this game you must consider different things. If you ARE a puzzle/riddle 
 lover and want plenty to solve and cringe your mind, then this is definately for you. If you're 
 into games that have more action and real time movement, maybe this game isn't for you. It's still 
 fun though, only recently have I been into puzzles and this game has definitely sucked me in. I 
 would suggest this over Brain Age 1/2 also, by the way.
  
  It got a good rating and finally! A game with VARIETY! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Pierst179
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 20, 2008 1:44 pm PT
Review:  Every once in a while a game that creates no hype appears and turns out to be one of the most likable 
 gaming experiences you could have ever imagined. What's really rewarding in playing games like 
 that is that you can clearly see that despite the whooping amount of shooters that dominate the 
 industry nowadays there are still some developers bold enough to try to produce titles that explore 
 unknown realms, with no assurance that their product will succeed and be accepted by the gaming 
 community. It is a huge leap to be taken, but if performed correctly you can instantly gain lots 
 of fans. 
  
  
  And that's what happens with Professor Layton and The Curious Village is. While it may seems like 
 a polished Brain Age  a puzzle game with a better presentation and characters  once you try it 
 for the first time you will notice that it goes beyond the puzzle genre, sucking you into one of 
 the most well-written adventures that videogames have ever seen. 
  
  
  On this adventure your hero doesn't showcase any clear superpowers, all he has is his endless curiosity, 
 his willingness to help people and his uncanny ability to solve puzzles that are constantly thrown 
 at him. Because of those famous abilities, Professor Layton ends up invited by a wealthy family 
 to visit a strange village. What looked like a simple trip to find the treasure that was hidden 
 by a rick baron will quickly become a mysterious journey filled with surprises and quirky villagers 
 that for some reason will give you a puzzle to solve whenever you want to get some information. 
 
  
  
  The exploration is quite simple. The scenario will appear on your DS screen and by touching it 
 you will interact with objects and people from the village. If you want to move to another location 
 all you need to do is press the "shoe" icon on the bottom of the screen and pick the direction 
 that you want to move. 
  
  
  When it comes to games like Professor Layton  where the most fun part lies on solving the puzzles 
 and where there is lots of exploration to be done by talking to people and gathering information 
  developers need to be extremely careful not to bore gamers. On some games the huge amount of 
 text eventually turns out to be boring since the player will only want to enjoy the game, not read 
 a bunch of nonsense. 
  
  
  Professor Layton could have easily gone towards this path, but the storyline is so deep and entertaining 
 that you will be compelled to talk to every character in the village and read carefully what they 
 have to say to you. Reading the text won't be simply a compliment or an addition to solving the 
 puzzles, it will be an important part of the experience, you will deeply enjoy it. 
  
  
  The puzzles are brilliantly crafted and well-thought. There are 120 of them hidden in the village 
 and another 15 that are unlocked once you perform certain actions. Some of them are already famous, 
 but it doesn't mean that you will cruise through the game. Every single one of the puzzles is very 
 entertaining and while some are easy, once you approach the end of the game you should be mentally 
 prepared to be stuck for almost thirty minutes, trying to figure some of them out. If you think 
 that 135 puzzles are already enough to make you happy, then you should know that Nintendo is releasing 
 a new puzzle per week that can be downloaded using your Wi-Fi connection. 
  
  
  The presentation of the game is absolutely spectacular. There are over ten cutscenes throughout 
 the adventure and you will be impressed with what the Nintendo DS can do, you will feel like you 
 are watching a cartoon. Due to its graphics and unique style the game has a European feeling that 
 is quite charming and different from anything you may have seem before. 
  
  
  Perhaps, another factor that adds to the European feel is that all of the characters have a British 
 accent  yeah, you heard it, this game has voice acting and it is awesome, as the actor's voices 
 perfectly fit the characters. It is really nice to see how much the developers cared about the 
 whole presentation of this title. 
  
  
  However, the voice acting doesn't prevent the game's sound from being annoying. The songs that 
 are played during the adventure and the puzzles are overly repetitive and boring, once you reach 
 the halfway mark of the adventure you will probably feel like turning the volume down to avoid 
 getting crazy. But there are some nice exceptions such as the songs that play during more tense 
 parts of the storyline or when something mysterious is about to happen. 
  
  
  Depending on how good you are with puzzles this game may last between 10 and fifteen hours which 
 is quite a good length for a Nintendo DS game. The replay value may not be too high since we are 
 talking about game based on puzzles, but the 135 riddles plus the ones available for download are 
 sure to keep you busy even after you are finished with the game. 
  
  
  Overall, Professor Layton is one of those games that is hard to put down, you won't be able to 
 stop playing it until you have discovered all the mysteries hidden within this peculiar village, 
 get ready for some serious surprises along the way. It is a must-buy for everyone who has a Nintendo 
 DS and is into some puzzle solving 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TheGameGuy
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 19, 2008 8:09 am PT
Review:  If you're a mystery buff and/or like brain teasers then you'll love Professor Layton and the Curious 
 Village on the Nintendo DS. It's a charming game and a charming story about a very clever man, 
 his apprentice, and a strange little town with mysteries around every corner. The bulk of the game 
 is about solving brain teasers - you know, the kinds of logic puzzles that often have trick answers 
 that have you smacking yourself on the forehead when you realize the answer. Not all of them have 
 trick answers, but more than a few of them seek to mislead you. But fret not! There are hints to 
 the puzzles that you can purchase with handy hint coins that can be found hidden around the village.
 
  
  As you solve the puzzles, more and more of the story unfolds, often presented with some very nice 
 animated segments (there are 16 segments in all in the game and you're given the option of seeing 
 them again once you've finished the game. 
  
  In addition to the main story, you will be collecting pieces to other puzzles that unlock bonus 
 puzzle areas. In true Nintendo "gotta collect 'em all" fashion, you'll be poking into every nook 
 and cranny until you've found all of the 120 puzzles in the game. With the 15 bonus puzzles, there 
 are 135 puzzles in all and more available for download each week via a wi-fi connection.
  
  This game strikes just the right balance between story and puzzle. Not once did I think "Oh, not 
 another puzzle!" or "No! Not more exposition!" I was always eager for the next clue or challenge 
 that the game presented to me.
  
  If you're like me, you won't put the game down until you've reached the conclusion - at which point 
 you'll be begging for more after only a few days of intense playing (a sequel appears to be in 
 the works) . But then you can finally get on to other things. Like those other games you bought.
 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: annbwashere
Rating: 5
Date: Feb 19, 2008 4:45 am PT
Review:  This is a series of elementary school puzzle/logic games wrapped in a cutesy cartoon style which 
 Nintendo seems to require of game developers. Most of the puzzles in it are relatively easy to 
 solve, but there are a handful that were difficult.
  
  There is no real investigation here, as the marketing for the game implies. As the game progresses, 
 things are simply revealed to you. You aren't really involved in piecing together information or 
 clues. In fact, you will be able to guess on your own what's so curious about the village within 
 the first hour of gameplay.
  
  Other bad points: the script is awful, and the old English accent of the two main characters is 
 nearly unbearable.
  
  If you are a lover of puzzles or logic games, I suggest you look somewhere else for a challenge. 
 This seems geared towards children.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: GamespotEXE
Rating: 9.5
Date: Feb 18, 2008 10:16 pm PT
Review:  Professor Layton is simply outstanding. It steps away from the traditional mediocre puzzle games, 
 such as Brain Age or Big Brain Academy, and implicates an immersive storyline -- and does so nearly 
 flawlessly. I must admit, and as other reviews have stated quite accurately, the music can become 
 extremely repetitive. Slight spoiler, here, but after finishing this disappointingly short but 
 amazingly difficult game, you unlock a music database, as well as a few other enjoyable secrets. 
 I listened to every track, and at least five of them or so repeat the same music remixed. The puzzles 
 are highly addictive and require you to strain your brain to figure out the later puzzles that 
 become increasingly difficult, especially those that involve sliding blocks. Moreover, the plot 
 has so many twists and turns that one could not possibly expect, for nothing in St. Mystere is 
 as it seems. 
  
  *From this point on, I will conclude with deeper detail, but cease your reading if you prefer not 
 to analyze the opinions of a twelve-year-old.*
  
  Perplexing puzzles and a suspenseful storyline are cleverly interwoven in this magnificent marvel 
 of a game -- truthfully, this is the first must-have DS game I've played in a long time and is definitely 
 the first this year. Whether you're a puzzle fan or not, this is a superb game that is surprisingly 
 addictive. I could not possibly put it down when I started playing, and if it were not for my five 
 hours of playing outside with my friends daily, meals, showers, teeth brushing, bathroom breaks 
 (oh wait, scratch that; I take it with me to the bathroom) , etc. I would never have put it down. 
 Unfortunately, Professor Layton's addictive aspect makes it unsatisfactorily brief, but considering 
 the fact that these puzzles rapidly grow increasingly difficult, that should not be a problem. 
 As for music, it can be enjoyable for a while, but it soon becomes a distraction, so tone down 
 the volume. With that being said, this game will not only be difficult but will be difficult to 
 put down. Is that necessarily a good thing? Try not to think about it too hard; focus on the puzzles 
 instead. Overall, though, Professor Layton has made a welcome leap onto the DS to kick off this 
 new year. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: PlyrChicho
Rating: 9.5
Date: Feb 18, 2008 4:52 pm PT
Review:  the game starts with a couple of easy puzzles and it start to become harder each time, the history 
 is actually pretty good, its not just a dumb history to sell another brain game to us, it uses 
 the stylus just to write and almost all the games are different so far (i've resolved like 25 to 
 30 puzzles) , its adictive once you start you dont want to stop, the music? well i dont find it 
 anoying or so, i find it just right to the game, plus if you dont like it put your mp3 and keep 
 playing, the hints are usefull and i recomend it, its fascinating and you are gonna love it!!!
 
  
  no matter how old are you (i'm actually 20) , it helps to improve you english too (i'm not a native 
 english speaker) , it has wi-fi and you can download a new puzzle each week, i havent see if it 
 has multiplayer yet, but the single player game will have you for a couple of hours to finish it 
 and i dont think its gonna be an easy one, try it, it totally worth the playing :D 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Superlemons
Rating: 9.5
Date: Feb 17, 2008 6:21 pm PT
Review:  "Lots of IQ questions that will test your logic set to a background of a rich story!"
  
  I highly recommend this to anyone, from young kids to adults. Some of the puzzles this game presents 
 is extremely satisfying! They are always entertaining! There are also video clips between scenes 
 that fit perfectly with the story. With wi fi support, it is worth the cost for sure. This means 
 that you will always get new puzzles even after you finish the at least 150 puzzles that this game 
 has to offer.
  
  I find that i can't put it down once i start. I give it 9.5/ 10 for a solid game...
  
  BUY 
 IT! BUY IT! BUY IT! BUY IT! BUY IT! BUY IT! BUY IT! BUY IT! BUY IT! BUY IT! BUY IT! BUY IT! BUY 
 IT! BUY IT! BUY IT! BUY IT! BUY IT! BUY IT! BUY IT! BUY IT! BUY IT! BUY IT! BUY IT! BUY IT! BUY 
 IT! BUY IT! BUY IT! BUY IT! BUY IT! BUY IT! BUY IT! BUY IT! BUY IT! BUY IT! BUY IT! BUY IT! BUY 
 IT! BUY IT! BUY IT! BUY IT! BUY IT! BUY IT! BUY IT! BUY IT! BUY IT! BUY IT! BUY IT! BUY IT! BUY 
 IT! BUY IT! BUY IT! BUY IT! BUY IT! BUY IT! BUY IT! BUY IT! BUY IT! BUY IT! BUY IT! BUY IT! BUY 
 IT! BUY IT! BUY IT! BUY IT! BUY IT! BUY IT! BUY IT! BUY IT! BUY IT! BUY IT! BUY IT! BUY IT! BUY 
 IT! BUY IT! BUY IT! BUY IT! BUY IT! BUY IT! BUY IT! BUY IT! BUY IT! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: finalcross
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 17, 2008 5:44 pm PT
Review:  From Grade school we've all encountered brain-teasers. Often a teacher would give you these and 
 reward the students with a treat for getting it right. Other times, you're doing just to keep your 
 mind fresh, but what about having a game that revolves around puzzles that work your brain and 
 interest you at the same time?
  
  Well that's Professor Layton and the Curious Village, the first for the DS that is a must-own this 
 year. It's a great title that challenges you with various puzzles and gives you a great story that 
 interests you from start to finish. Professor Layton is a simple game from the start-point. It's 
 a point-and-click adventure involving a puzzle solving professor and his side-kick (or his son) 
 Luke who travel to a small European town to solve the mystery of the Golden Apple, an elusive item 
 that was apparently in the posession of a wealthy baron who passes away. You're called in my his 
 family (specifically his wife and brothers) to help him find this item. 
  
  While that is the main objective, it opens up to give you so many more mysteries to solve as you 
 have a murder, missing people, questionable characters and a lot of secrets that exist within this 
 city. The story is done extremely well with some really fantastic FMV sequences that remind me 
 of the great European cartoons from my youth. The characters are interesting and the plot flows 
 well and once you've completed the game, you'll feel as though you've actually accomplished something.
 
  
  The way the game combines the point-and-click adventure games of the 80s and 90s and puzzle-solving 
 is done perfectly. It's rare that the puzzles don't make sense, and while they don't spoil the 
 game, it's still a great way of forcing you to actually think while playing the game. There are 
 some problems with the puzzles. For one, while you do lose points for failing the puzzle the first 
 two times (getting it wrong) after that, you can guess your heart out until you get it right. The 
 hints are hit-and-miss and while you'll need to hunt the city for hint-coins, chances are you'll 
 never run out. 
  The puzzles do vary from easy to extremely difficult but there isn't a puzzle that will frustrate 
 you to the point of anger, but often you'll get the answer to a puzzle and be surprised you didn't 
 think of it in the first place.
  
  Once you've completed the game, there is some replay, but somewhat limited. If you collected certain 
 items in the game, you'll manage to unlock some 10-15 extra puzzles and there will be free-downloads 
 over the weeks, outside of that, there is no real reason to play the story again. It would have 
 been nice to have some points in the adventure where you could have branching. While not a spoiler, 
 the way the game ends proves that there was no way for alternate endings but making some points 
 mid-game where you needed to make a clear-decision would have been nice.
  
  The future is strong for Professor Layton and Luke as the second game in the series has already 
 been confirmed for North American gamers and a 3rd game will be released soon in Japan. I hope 
 that Level 5 continues to build on this success and add more to the future games. Add more replayability, 
 some extra features and secrets and this series will be among the best on the DS.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: QueenOfGaming
Rating: 9.5
Date: Feb 17, 2008 11:14 am PT
Review:  I got this game having heard so much hype about it before it's release. Nintendo should advertise 
 more of it's games this way. There are animated clips with voice which I was very happy to see 
 in a DS game, there should be more games that have this. The games storyline was good, I don't 
 think most people would just guess it entirely by the middle of the game. While going through the 
 story you have to complete many puzzles. I can see why this game was released in Japan first, most 
 of the puzzles can be hard and will take you a while to figure out. I don't consider this a game 
 for children at all. There are plenty of extras such as extra puzzles, objects you can collect 
 to gain pieces of a whole item, and downloadable puzzles from Nintendo Wifi. They did a nice job 
 with that. Overall it was a good game and they did a good job putting hard puzzles in there and 
 I have to say I couldn't put the game down because even though I'm not much of a puzzle person 
 most of the puzzles they give you are captivating and you actually want to figure them out, but 
 it's going to take brain work and time, if that's not for you then I wouldn't bother getting this 
 game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Blue_Tomato
Rating: 7.5
Date: Feb 16, 2008 9:25 am PT
Review:  The big thing here is the story mode, which I believe you need to be around 7 years old to fully 
 appreciate. I sometimes have a problem with how cute and fluffy all games for Nintendo platform 
 has to be, and I often wonder why noone else seems to be bothered by it. Am I the only adult playing 
 them?
  
  When I saw the Gamespot review go on and on about how great the story is, I did not get it. I guess 
 what the reviewer meant to say is it is a great story if you are in the limited age group to appreciate 
 it, or perhaps just mildly retarded.
  
  I wish they would do something like they do in the traditional Disney cartoon movies instead, where 
 they clearly are aiming at kids, but put enough twisted humor in there to entertain adults as well. 
 Instead, I found the story to be very dry. If you find Postman Pat entertaining you might like 
 it though, its more or less on the same level. I might give my vote to Postman Pat though.
  
  But ok, they have a story mode, so at least you do get some more sense of reward as you solve 
 more and more puzzles and can proceed through the story, instead of just having them tossed at 
 you randomly.
  
  The puzzles are indeed the heart of the game, and are quite varied. They make good use of the touch 
 screen, and although the puzzles are quite varied and needs to be solved using the stylus pen in 
 all kinds of different ways, the ever changing user interface never gets in the way of the puzzle 
 solving.
  
  The game uses a score system, which grants you different scores based on how tough the puzzle is 
 and sometimes on how many times you had to try before you got it right. So, you do get some intensives 
 to get it right the first time, instead of starting to guess. Most of the puzzles are constructed 
 in a way so that guessing wont help much anyway though. The difficulty level progresses in a natural 
 way, so you will get into the game easily, then finding yourself more and more challenged. But 
 never to a level where its impossible, just need some patience at most.
  
  I enjoyed the fact you are not limited by time in any of the puzzles, I always found time limitations 
 to be a cheap way for games to raise the difficulty level, usually all it does it lowering the 
 fun factor and adding frustration. Here it surely is the puzzle itself which stands in your way 
 of progressing into the story. 
  
  You can also discover coins by pointing on stuff that animates in the backgrounds. Coins that can 
 be used in cases where you really get stuck. Its a good mechanism to stop you from getting too 
 bored from spending too much time on a puzzle (although you probably can find a walkthrough online 
 easily)
  
  Unlike the story, the puzzles are designed to work for all age groups. They are based on intelligence 
 rather than experience or knowledge. So, once you get past that childish wrapping even adults can 
 find some challenging stuff here.
  
  All in all not bad, but I found myself getting bored quite fast, mainly because of the story related 
 issues mentioned before... 
  
  - Blue Tomato
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: ariamunchkin
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 15, 2008 6:17 pm PT
Review:  I saw some previews for Professor Layton and the Curious Village before it's release, and thought 
 to myself, "Another brain-puzzle game for the NDS." But after a coworker got a copy for Valentine's 
 Day, she told me how fun it was, I decided to get my hands on a copy and give it a shot.
  
  Now, don't get me wrong, I've always enjoyed brain-teasers. The Brain-Age variety gets a little 
 old for me though, I like variety, not trying the same puzzle over and over (Except Sudoku, which 
 I could do for hours and hours) . So Professor Layton was a refreshing change from that, with puzzles 
 that weren't so much about exercising your mind, but more about actually challenging you to think 
 in different ways.
  
  You play as Professor Layton, the noted archaeologist and renowned puzzle-solver, or as his assistant 
 Luke (depending on the puzzle) . You have been invited to the village of St. Mystere to investigate 
 a mysterious will, only to have one of the family members murdered while you are out searching 
 for the "grieving" widow's cat. 
  
  You encounter puzzles all the time. Whenever you talk to someone or click on certain objects it 
 will lead you into a puzzle. The whole village is obsessed with puzzles, and they all want your 
 help solving the ones that they have been troubled with, or else you think of a puzzle to challenge 
 your counterpart whenever you see a certain item. (ie. when you click on a candle in a shop, Professor 
 Layton remembers a puzzle involving candles and challenges Luke) . Whether it is Luke or Layton 
 who is challenged doesn't make any difference, except the slightly dorky little "You Solved It!" 
 type of animation at the end of the puzzle. You can get hints by collecting "hint coins" which 
 there are only a specific number of, so don't waste them!
  
  Most of the puzzles start out pretty easy, but I was really surprised at how quickly I found myself 
 stumped. I mean, I lived on brain puzzles when I was a kid, I'm a college graduate, and Algebra 
 was my second favorite subject in high school, and I still found myself having to really think 
 hard about a lot of the puzzles. Some of them are really easy, but also easy to over think, while 
 others try to trick you with words. There are visual puzzles and mathematical puzzles, logic puzzles 
 and common sense sort of puzzles. And even if you miss one, have no fear, for a little house in 
 the center of the village collects all the puzzles that you skipped or missed, in case you want 
 to go back.
  
  I haven't played it long, I'm only just now in Chapter Four. But it's definitely reeling me in 
 and keeping me interested, because every puzzle is different and challenging and even though the 
 context for the puzzles is often a little contrived, and part of me wants to get on with the actual 
 story already, another part of me just really enjoys being so challenged. It's definitely a new 
 and different sort of puzzle game, and anyone who enjoys a good brain-teaser will enjoy it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Eat_the_Meek
Rating: 8
Date: Feb 15, 2008 6:08 pm PT
Review:  Edutainment? Bah Humbug.
  
  Usually I get my jollies hacking demons to bits or collecting various pieces of tri-force, but 
 I was immediately drawn to the art style of Professor Layton & the Curious Village. It's a damn 
 good looking game, and the fact that the puzzles involved are as addictive as crack rock is just 
 gravy on the biscuit.
  
  If you ever played the old Carmen Sandiego games (or any point & click adventure of the last 10 
 years) , then the gameplay should feel very familiar. Basically, you are presented with a series 
 of static scenes. Then you click around trying to find coins or puzzles or clues. I suppose this 
 simulates a sleuth poking his nose into everything, but it seemed rather arbitrary to me and I 
 mostly just clicked on every damn thing in the screen untill something happened. What usually happens 
 is you are presented with a puzzle.
  
  The variety of puzzles in the game is fantastic, and there are very few that really drove me nuts. 
 It wasn't the difficulty (which is varied and fair) , but rather that certain games (particularly 
 the match stick puzzles) would not recognize a correct answer from me even when I damn well know 
 it was correct. The first time this happened, I had my matches in the correct shape, but the sulfur 
 tips were pointing the wrong way. Annoying, but rare.
  
  overall, the graphics are slick, the puzzles are fun, and it's all held together with a mildly 
 interesting detective story.
  
  I just hope future games will be able to tie the various puzzles into the plot a little better, 
 so that the story is carried by the puzzles (as opposed to a bunch of random puzzles held together 
 with a little story) .
  
  This game was way outside my normal tastes, and I still loved it. For what it's worth. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pik-ku
Rating: 9.5
Date: Feb 13, 2008 2:57 am PT
Review:  'Professor Layton and the Curious Village' is a very beautiful game made by Level-5. The story 
 mainly resolve around Professor Layton and his little assistant Luke.
  
  One day, Professor Layton got a letter which asked him to find the 'Golden Apple', and so Professor 
 Layton and Luke set out to the Curious Village to meet Lady Dahlia, the client....
  
  Basically this game is made to train brain and IQ by using math and logic problems featured in 
 'highly addictive' quizzes and puzzles. 
  The puzzles featured in this game may seem kinda hard but with the hint given and a little 'brain 
 work' will surely solve the puzzle easily.
  
  The graphic in this game is simply amazing! The set is filled with classic and mysterious mood. 
 And there are movies in this game!! The cartoon movies that kinda reminds me of Ghibli movies and 
 the Professor kinda reminds me of Rin Tin Tin, they made this game AMAZING!!
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: mudhudshut
Rating: 9.5
Date: Feb 12, 2008 10:47 pm PT
Review:  I have been an adventure gamer for a good portion of my life and when I heard and saw the previews 
 for Professor Layton I was excited to say the least. Professor Layton and the Curious Village (A 
 curious village indeed) is a game that although I have finished in two and a half days I cannot 
 but stand to hold on for a little bit longer. The puzzles in this game fit well with the prescribed 
 storyline and just like any good novel there are twists and turns in the plot even up to the very 
 last moments. What I did enjoy is that the game did a very good job of giving you clues for objectives 
 in the game so you were never at a loss of where to go or what to do next. There have been many 
 adventure games where I am just at a lost of where to go next or what to explore. The opening video 
 sucks you into the world of Professor Layton and the first couple of puzzles set the stage and 
 builds your confidence for many more puzzles to come. Its hard to place this game in its right 
 place. As I sit here having just scrolled through the credits, tears nearly came as I was so amused 
 by what I had just experienced throughout the game. How the people who made this game were able 
 to create a world so imaginative and breath-taking is perhaps the mystery I would like to solve 
 someday. My only big gripe with the game is that there are several puzzles that are more in the 
 visual acuity range where you just have to eye-ball the answer. These seemed to not fit the best 
 into the game as there was really no way to figure out the answer without tediously untying and 
 rearranging objects with just your eyes. As well, when I used hint coins to help me solve some 
 puzzles, the first clue was rather pointless along with the second. And needless to say gamers 
 I think like to see a reward when solving a  puzzle, and 
 there are some of these in the game that garner you no reward whatsoever except another notch in 
 the total number of puzzles solved. But the voice acting was terrific and somehow the chemistry 
 between Professor Layton and Luke just works well. I did not think I would rush this quickly through 
 the game and although I did use some message boards to help me out with some of the puzzles a lot 
 of them just needed a few more minutes of logical thought to bust through them. In the end, the 
 story is over, but the game still allowed me to go back into the village to solve the rest of the 
 puzzles, some 30 of them I have yet to crack. So if you don't mind I will be returning to the village 
 to garner the last of the treasures that bathe well in the Curious Village... p. s. Please do a 
 favor to all video game developers and enjoy what they have created, you can reach the last check-point 
 by only solving 75 of the riddles but why would you wanna go and do a silly thing like that. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: zjohnsto
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 12, 2008 1:44 am PT
Review:  Not too many games strike me as 'beautiful', but this was immediatly appealing with its opening 
 animation, quirky music, and clear dialogue.
  The puzzles begin quite simple but quickly show their teeth in a most innocent way. You'll find 
 that some puzzles suit you more than others, but for those that don't you can 'buy' hints by using 
 'hint coins' (strangely enough...) that are found through the still scenes between puzzles.
  The best thing i found with the inbetween still-frames (think the original Myst) was that selectable 
 objects did not shout out 'touch me!' as so many puzzle or collecting games seem to do - they are 
 graphically identical to the surrounding textures. The interface is also very friendly, with unobtrusive 
 icons and easily selected options. You can save anywhere too, which no matter the game i find to 
 be an excellent thing!
  The music is fantastic, with a mood that matches the colours you see and the environments you stroll 
 through.
  The game has plenty of puzzles offered in a variety of stories, but with most 'solvable' puzzle 
 games you don't really need to replay unless you want to get your answers more streamlined.
  It's definitely a fantastic game, especially if you appreciete cohesive artwork, music and logical 
 play.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: SailorAide
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 11, 2008 9:02 am PT
Review:  Professor Layton and the Curious Village, at its core, is a puzzle game from legendary puzzle mastermind 
 Professor Akira Tago. The intent of the game is to solve the mysteries of a small village by answering 
 puzzles and riddles. Although the puzzles are certainly the focus in the game, the characters and 
 story are both fantastically done and will draw in most gamers. There are many other things to 
 do as well, from collecting painting scraps to finding and solving new mysteries (the game's version 
 of a side quest) .
  
  The puzzles themselves are both a strength and weakness of the game, depending on your personal 
 taste. As a logic puzzle veteran, I experienced trouble with many of the beginning puzzles in the 
 game, leading me to believe that younger gamers might be in over their heads. There is a hint system 
 that allows you to gain clues toward solving the puzzles, but the clues are limited by how many 
 "hint coins" you collect in the exploration mode. If you want a challenge, Professor Layton supplies 
 it. If you're looking to breeze through the game from start to finish, you might be frustrated 
 quite quickly.
  
  Overall, this is a wonderful title for the DS and an excellent addition to the edutainment genre. 
 The game makes almost exclusive use of the stylus and voiceover/sound is well above average. One 
 other thing of note is that this title makes use of Nintendo's new daily download feature, allowing 
 for new puzzles to be downloaded using a wi-fi connection every week. I highly recommend Professor 
 Layton and the Curious Village to any gamer looking for a quirky, challenging experience that can't 
 be found anywhere else. Take a stroll through St. Mystere with Professor Layton and his assistant 
 Luke... you won't be disappointed.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: strieeyes
Rating: 9.5
Date: Feb 11, 2008 8:42 am PT
Review:  I was very high on this game before it's release. So right from the beginning I had high expectations 
 for this little puzzler. I had to admit so far it has not let me down.
  
  Right off the bat we are introduced to the game through gorgeous cut scenes, and some of the best 
 voice work that I have seen on the DS to date. The backgrounds are very earthy, and you almost 
 seem to melt right into them. The characters are quirky, and also well done. I can't wait to get 
 to know them better. The music is appropriate, all in all the presentation is top notch.
  
  Before long you are thrown into you first puzzle. From the very first puzzle I found myself addicted. 
 The puzzles are fresh, even those that we have seen before are done with beautiful pictures and 
 background stories. The game play is well done, the touch screen is very responsive, and I have 
 yet to have a problem with the controls.
  
  To be honest, the only reason I put it down was because my DS needed to be recharged. :) If you 
 enjoy a good brain teaser than this is a must have for your collection. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: stehsul
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 11, 2008 6:13 am PT
Review:  I have played a lot of games in the past but Professor Layton and the curious village for the DS 
 is amazing. In the game you play Professor Layton and his sidekick Luke as they investigate the 
 caste of the golden apple. The game its self is beautiful and fun in game movies. But the greatest 
 is the fresh and exciting music. I would just buy the game just for the look of the game. The game 
 also makes you think and is great stimulator to the brain. The easy plot soon becomes complexes 
 and dark plot. The game also includes a weekly puzzle that is downloaded from the internet with 
 wi-fi that keeps the game game fresh. So what are you waiting for get out and buy Professor Layton 
 and the Curious Village for the DS at your city right now.  
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Aquabfan
Rating: 8
Date: Feb 10, 2008 6:19 am PT
Review:  Professor Layton and the Curious Village is a wicked fun puzzle game that you will not be able 
 to put down once you have started because the story will reach out and grab you, and put you in 
 the game. The puzzles you find in Professor Layton are not your typical puzzles, they are more 
 than that, you will have to solve many fun riddles as you go along. The puzzles are based on a 
 point system called Picarats. When you are offered a puzzle it's worth a certain amount of Picarats. 
 The more Picarats it's worth the harder the puzzle is. There are also hint coins scattered around 
 the town that can be used to unlock clues when you're trying to solve a puzzle. With all the additional 
 side quests and items to collect you know you will be occupied for a very long time. 
  
  You will be wanting more after it is all said and done and thankfully this is the first in a trilogy 
 from the acclaimed development team at Level 5, so the chances of a sequel being released in the 
 US are pretty high.
  
  Overall, I loved this game. I love these unique kind of puzzle games, so if anyone asked me if 
 it was a buy it first game, I would have to say "Yes". 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
