-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Puyo Pop Fever
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/ds/puzzle/puyopopfever/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 Classic Puyo Pop gameplay still stands up.
 Fever mode capably mixes things up.
 Amazing multiplayer support!.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 Annoying, buggy sound design.
 Poor touch-screen implementation.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Jun 14, 2005
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 7.3
Critic Score: 7.4, 28 Review (s)
User Score: 7.9, 311 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Atlus Co.
Developer: Sega
Genre: Matching Puzzle
Date: May 3, 2005
ESRB: Everyone

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
If you can tolerate the forcibly cute presentation, you'll find Puyo Pop Fever to be a solid, addictive 
 puzzle game. 

  Considering that the Soviet blockbuster Tetris served as the springboard for the original Game 
 Boy, it's kind of surprising that we've yet to see a real system-selling puzzle game for the Nintendo 
 DS. Make no mistake: Puyo Pop Fever is  not  that killer app. It's a port of a fairly modest GameCube 
 game released last year -- a game that was itself just a prettier version of a game Sega has released 
 over and over again for the past decade. It doesn't take advantage of the dual-screen format at 
 all, and its touch-screen support is all knees and elbows. But this doesn't stop Puyo Pop Fever 
 from succeeding on the strength of its underlying gameplay, as well as its rather liberal approach 
 to multiplayer.  

          Sonic Team's long-running puzzle series is now on the DS.    If you've played virtually 
 any puzzle game from Tetris on forward, Puyo Pop Fever's vertically oriented playing field and 
 gravity-affected, color-coded pieces should seem nice and familiar -- comforting, even. The gameplay 
 concept isn't radical. Basically, coupled sets of googly-eyed gumdrops fall down the playfield, 
 and your goal is to orient them to set up chains of four like-colored gumdrops. Puyo Pop Fever 
 is at its best when you're playing a head-to-head competitive game. Whether it's against the computer 
 or a friend, your real goal is to fill up your opponent's side of the field with colorless junk 
 gumdrops. The best way to fill up your opponent's field quickly is by creating chain combos, where 
 clearing one set of gumdrops causes another set of gumdrops to clear, and so on. This is where 
 the hidden depth in Puyo Pop really comes to light, and it's also the basis for the fever mode. 
 When you trigger fever mode, the regular gameplay stops, and you're presented with a preconfigured 
 field and a pair of pieces that, when placed correctly, are capable of creating massive chain combos. 
 The fever mode runs at a much faster pace than the regular Puyo Pop game. It can be jarring, but 
 it serves as a nice addition to the core gameplay, and it generally helps keep everyone on their 
 toes.  

  To win at Puyo Pop Fever, you need to be able to think methodically, as well as act quickly, which 
 makes the game's awkward touch-screen controls basically useless. Most of the time, all the action 
 takes place on the top screen, leaving the lower screen as kind of dead space. You can tap on the 
 lower screen to rotate the pieces that are currently in play, and you can drag the stylus around 
 the screen to move the pieces where you want them. But it's a method that's just not fast or precise 
 enough to serve much good.  

  Puyo Pop Fever puts a cheery, colorful wrapper around the action with a single-player story -- set 
 in a Harry Potter-turned-anime sort of universe -- that pits you against a series of bizarrely cute 
 characters. This mode, while not particularly long, does offer a number of genuinely challenging 
 opponents, and it's a decent substitute for playing against live opponents. If you're playing solo, 
 there are also three different "endless" modes, which will keep going as long as you can keep up. 
 These include a traditional Puyo Pop game, a mission mode that presents you with a series of specific 
 tasks you must complete before a timer runs out, and a dedicated fever mode, which has you constantly 
 trying to clear the entire screen in one fell swoop.  

  The single most impressive aspect of Puyo Pop Fever for the DS is the way the multiplayer game 
 is structured. The game has support for up to eight players. There's nothing too revolutionary 
 about that on its own. However, you can initiate a full-featured, eight-player game with just a 
 single copy of the game. The startup time can be a little brutal with just one cart, since it takes 
 about a minute to transfer all the necessary data wirelessly to one of your opponents, but this 
 option adds an incredible amount of value to the package. There are several different rule sets 
 to choose from, and you can even customize your own rules. If you have a copy of Puyo Pop Fever, 
 anyone you meet with a Nintendo DS is a potential opponent. Frankly, the only thing missing from 
 this package is online multiplayer support.  

  Sonic Team has maintained a laserlike focus on giving its games an intensely cute, cheery look, 
 and Puyo Pop Fever doesn't break this trend. There's a nice unified look to the game, and everything 
 runs smoothly. There are plenty of big, colored particle effects whenever you clear some pieces, 
 and the background gets downright psychedelic when you enter the fever mode. There are some other 
 nice, smaller touches that help bring everything together, such as the various looks the different-colored 
 gumdrops have, which gives each color a sort of unique bit of personality.  

          Don't let looks fool you. There's a deep, challenging puzzle game to be found in Puyo Pop 
 Fever.     

  Bright primary colors definitely work to the advantage of a game where the gameplay itself depends 
 on different colors; however, the game's overenthusiastic sound design ends up being screechy and 
 annoying. The music, which could be charitably described as techno for kids, is layered over with 
 the high-pitched voices of the characters, who will chime in whenever anything of importance happens. 
 There's an option to switch to Japanese voices, though it also changes all the menu options over 
 to Japanese as well. In both languages, though, we ran into a terrible sound bug where the character 
 we were playing as would just constantly repeat the same phrase over and over. It didn't happen 
 all the time, but this bug, coupled with the inherently grating sound design, made it easy for 
 us to kill the sound entirely.  

  For a puzzle game to have real longevity, it needs to be able to marry the two rather disparate 
 concepts of basic, easy-to-learn gameplay and significant strategic depth. Puyo Pop has had this 
 from the beginning, and Puyo Pop Fever maintains this tradition. The new fever gameplay helps pick 
 up the pace, and the single-cart multiplayer options make this an astonishingly great value for 
 multiplayer puzzle fans. If you can tolerate the forcibly cute presentation, you'll find Puyo Pop 
 Fever to be a solid, addictive puzzle game.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (13 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: netin2005
Rating: 9.7
Date: Aug 2, 2007 8:47 pm PT
Review:  That's right. I have my DS since January 2005, and I bought Puyo Pop Fever in august of that same 
 year. Since then, many games have passed throught my DS, including overrated games like meteos 
 ; kirby canvas course ; kirby squeak squad ; new super mario bros. animal crossing mario kart and 
 others. But I have to tell you I enjoyed all those game for some time (about 2 months each) and 
 I sold many of them already. But Since august 2005 I play Puyo Pop Fever and I can't get tired 
 of playng it. The game is just perfect for any puzzle fan. The difficult of the game is quite nice, 
 even for an expert player.
  The best thing about this game, sure is the multiplayer. Unfortunatelly, i have Never played against 
 real people, everytime I played I used CPUs and it is just perfect. I can't say the graphics are 
 great , or the touch screen is so fun ' (you hardly ever use the touch screen) . But the game doesn't 
 quit being the best DS game for me for those reasons.
  Many people complained about the game's Sound and its English voice dub. But I think it's quite 
 cool ^^ if you don't like it, you can change its language to the original one (japanese) and it'll 
 still be quite good.
  If you haven't bought this game, or if you're thinking Ok, this game sounds great... but there are 
 so many games I want to play first forget all them and give this one a try ^ ^ you'll be addicted 
 to it. that's why I don't recommend the game if you're too busy with your work or your school, 
 'cause you might be dismissed of it playng so much Puyo Pop Fever hehe
  
  Anyway, you got my point.
  thanks for reading this. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Viena-Dumpling
Rating: 7.5
Date: Nov 16, 2006 4:57 pm PT
Review:  This game is great to play, does get repetitive, but if your patient then you'll probably find this 
 game a lot of fun^^ Characters and graphics are really good for the DS! Giving the game it's colour 
 and spunk. Up to 14 players in the game, all presented well and definitely a good variety of choice.
 
  
  I found the multi-player was the best, I could play over and over with a friend and it can last 
 you a good few hours. There can be up to 8 players on Multi-player, I think that's a really cool 
 added bonus. You can customize your puyo pop game to whatever rules or liking you want. The game 
 play is very interesting and addictive!
  Create giant chains of puyo to drop nuisance puyos to your rival, filling their screen up and eliminating 
 them! Play your way into 'Fever' mode, where you create chains of puyo as fast as you can before 
 the time runs out!
  Challenge mode offers to you things to achieve while popping puyo!
  Story Mode lets you go through the story of Amitie at Magic school, learning new tricks to the 
 game and versing her rivals in different adventures!^^
  
  The game overall was great in the sense there are lots of levels to play, awesome characters and 
 graphics, Multi-player was really cool and the use of the stylus is very creative!
  
  Do you have the fever!?!?^^ 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Canon-D
Rating: 7.8
Date: Oct 21, 2006 9:35 am PT
Review:  Puyo Pop Fever brings the classic sonic team puzzle game to the ds.
  There's not too much to say, you'l be using super cute manga style characters to battle out in 
 classic puzzle style.
  It looks alot like your usual Puyo Pop game, just that it's on the DS.
  What makes this game 
 shine is it's multiplayer, even playing with people that don't have the cartridge is pure fun, 
 and it's sure to give you hours and hours of play.
  The game includes some new modes other than the classic and story ones, but they don't give you 
 much in the long run.
  If you're a fan of the series this is a must for you, if not, try giving it a rent or play before 
 buying it if possible.
  Overall, it's great fun for as long as it lasts, wich is a long ime if you have some friends to 
 play with! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: FeliciaPuff926
Rating: 9.2
Date: Jul 1, 2006 2:35 pm PT
Review:  I haven't been playing this for very long, but I speak for every puyo pop lover on this forum when 
 I say that this is one of the most fun puzzle games I've ever played. The gameplay is simple and 
 addictive; the graphics are sharp and refined. But there are certain elements of this game that 
 especially catch my interest. First, unlike the other Puyo Puyo games, Sonic Team has introduced 
 a new element into the normal gameplay: the Fever mode. Second, instead of just two different puyo 
 dropping in at a time, angle-shaped, stick-shaped, pong-shaped (stick and a single puyo) , yin-yang-shaped, 
 and giant puyo make creating and clearing large chains more of a challenge. Finally, but mostly, 
 unlike the other games, the player has the option of choosing a character to play as, each one 
 with unique abilities to suit the player's strength and needs. Set aside from the muffled sound 
 and complications of single-card play, anyone can say that Puyo Pop Fever is everything puzzle 
 fans want, and a perfect example of what any good puzzle game should be: Addictive, Innovative, 
 and Cute. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: IcE-Fu-
Rating: 7.7
Date: Mar 17, 2006 4:43 am PT
Review:  This is a good game but it will get boring very fast. for me it got boring after three days but 
 if you like puzzels and good game play like tetris then this is the game for you. This game is 
 simalar to tetris but in its own goofy way its not. But there is differant things about this game 
 and tetris. this game you vs other people or computer. it goes up to 8 players with one cartridge. 
 and if your expecting an adveture game this doesent have it. its just like a classic arcade game 
 were you could pick up fast and play for hours. the matches may be fast but maybe as long as a 
 half an hour. It is a game where you could play when you just in the car going somewhere. This 
 game also has great voice overs. the acting is top noach but my be a little fake some times. so 
 enough about details lets get into the game. There are these things called poyo and you have to 
 get them four in a row ( just like tetris and bust a move type of thing) . then on the side of the 
 screen there is a fever bar for a mode called fever mode and when you reach its limits you can 
 just say all hell breaks loose this is one way to either catch up or win the game. it is a seriouse 
 of poyos were one pop can create a whole chain of pops and can win you the game or do damage or 
 just catch up and put yourself in the game if you are loseing. so over all this is a great game 
 that is easy to play and matches are quick. but i say borrow it first then if you like it buy it. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Robio_basic
Rating: 8.2
Date: Feb 12, 2006 7:31 pm PT
Review:  Puyo Pop Fever is a fantastic game. Unfortunately it's been wrapped in a package that seems to 
 have been specifically meant for 10 year old girls. 
  
  Puyo Pop Fever is Nintendo DS installment of the classic Puyo Pop game that has appeared in various 
 forms on the SNES, Genesis, GBA, and Gamecube. It is a puzzle game, similiar in style to Tetris, 
 but done in a competitive manner. Each game is played against a computer opponent. Your goal is 
 to match up bubbles called Puyos next to one another. Once you combine 4 or more together they 
 will pop. Each combination you make pop will also cause a small avalanche of Puyos to fall on your 
 opponents screen. Hopefully you will create chain reaction of Puyo Pops and create a huge avalanche 
 on your opponents screen.
  
  Puyo Pop Fever also adds a "Fever Mode" that will appears mid-game. This is a mini-hyper version 
 of the game designed to allow you to quickly create chain reactions and ruin your opponent's day. 
 This helps add a new flavor to a series that has been around for a while, and only enhances the 
 game.
  
  While the gameplay is great, the story and setting surround it unfortunately detracts from it. 
 It takes place in a Magic School with characters that seemed to be designed for a 12 year old girl. 
 The character, Emite, shouts out "WICKED" and "NICE JOB" when chain reactions are made, and it 
 quickly becomes very irritating. Fortunately you can skip the storyline and turn the volume down 
 to keep these irritating attribues to a minimum. 
  
  So rest assured, the game is a worthwhile addition to your DS library. Still it could have been 
 a lot better if it were designed for a more general audience. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ignoman
Rating: 8.1
Date: Jan 19, 2006 4:14 pm PT
Review:  To be fair, I've always been a Puyo Puyo fan. It all started with Kirby's Avalanche back on SNES 
 (yep, Puyo Puyo was translated into a Kirby game) and I've played a handful of them from then on. 
 Puyo Pop Fever is my latest one... and the best handheld one I've ever played.
  
  The classic Puyo gameplay returns, with some new twists. Now pieces can contain up to 4 blobs instead 
 of just two. It really doesn't change all that much... you'll still working to make chain reactions 
 of four just like in every other game. Fever mode is interesting... when you get lots of boulder 
 warning icons (meaning you're about to lose) if you keep making matches, you'll delay your death 
 and possibly get FEVER. In Fever Mode you make huge combos rapid-fire, so you can eventually cancel 
 your impending doom and maybe screw your opponent. Now, sometimes its not a good idea to smack 
 your opponent  :) It kindof adds a random twist... but a good player can use Fever mode to severly 
 penalize inefficient play. That said, the AI in this game is much harder than I'm used to... on 
 Normal I was getting soundly beaten. The game supports up to 8 players (on one cart... HUGE) simultaneously, 
 which is cool but also rediculous... fever mode is lethal here.
  
  Now, I LOVE Puyo Puyo... so maybe that's why I'm able to tolerate the sound and graphics. They 
 are awful. PPF is the cutest game of all time. Period. That means it's TOO cute. Everyone has a 
 high-pitched rediculous voice in either language. It's irritating. All of the colors are of the 
 bright Crayola variety, which is great for the color-based gameplay but the still drawings used 
 for characters and movies are altogether skippable. You'll be treated to a squeaky clown horn at 
 the start of every match. I'd leave the sound muted... or at least memorize the menus so you can 
 switch it to Japanese. It's slightly harder for me to tell when a Japanese actor is hamming it 
 up.
  
  There's a bunch of play modes, most of which appear in other Puyo games. You can also edit the 
 rules for a custom versus match, which is nice. The "story" modes are at best 8 stages long... 
 but this game is hard, so that might last you a while.
  
  The Verdict:
  
  Puyo Puyo is my favorite puzzle game, so obviously I love Puyo Pop Fever. The gameplay is hyper-paced 
 and timeless. If you like puzzle games, you probably already own this one... if you're looking 
 for one on DS, this one's probably as good as any. At the time of this writing, I haven't played 
 Bust-a-Move or Meteos. I like Puyo games better than BaM games, but I hear Meteos got a good review. 
 It's your call. The only reasons I wouldn't buy this game are if you either hate puzzle games, 
 or are too ashamed to play such a cute game for fear of getting beat up in the locker room. I showed 
 all my friends Kirby's Avalanche back in the day, and they all got hooked... and because of the 
 multiplayer capabilities I've always got a challeger anytime any of my DS-wielding friends draws 
 near. Puyo is great... ignore the characters and dive in. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sonicphoto
Rating: 8.3
Date: Jul 4, 2006 5:24 pm PT
Review:  While the DS still doesnt have many hits of really good titles, is still getting a lot of interesting 
 puzzles titles to keep the handheld solid enough. Mr. Driller was actually one of the 1st puzzle 
 titles on the DS. It was a unique step for the franchise with the dual screen functionality that 
 let you see on the top screen the blocks that were falling down, it really helps you not getting 
 squish by the blocks. Sadly the gameplay itself was too repetitive and not addictive as other puzzle 
 titles out there. Then there was Polarium that had some interesting ideas too, but the game felt 
 too bland with his plain graphics. Meteos then changes all of this by giving a unique addictive 
 gameplay for puzzle fans. It was pretty simple but really entertaining in both eye candy and gameplay. 
 But that did not stop Sega to bring the Puyo Pop franchise onto the DS with Puyo Pop Fever.
  
  Puyo Pop Fever is pretty much Tetris with a few twists here and there. In Puyo Pop Fever you 
 must do a chain of 4 puyos that have the same color to disappear them. The interesting thing is 
 to make combos, which can be done by doing more than just 1 chain at the same time. Thats where 
 you have to create your own strategies in making those combos. Each time you create chains the 
 opponents will receive white puyos that cant be chained, but your opponent can also do combos 
 to send you white annoying puyos. By making big combos you will make the opponent receive a lot 
 of those white puyos. With the chains you create you can eliminate the white puyos that are close 
 to that chain of normal puyos. The goal of the game is to make your opponent get his screen up 
 to the top full of puyos and win the game. You have to be very careful when puyos are reaching 
 the top because your opponent at any time can perform a big combo and win you easily because your 
 puyos reached the top. But if you make a lot of combos you can destroy some white puyos before 
 they fall in your screen.
  
  The new addition to the Puyo Pop franchise is the Fever mode. To enter this mode you will need 
 to fill the fever bar on the right of the screen by making a lot of chains and combos. In fever 
 mode they gave you new puyos in which most of the time 3 puyos will be chained, you will have to 
 find a way to make a lot of combos with those prepared chains. You will receive new different Puyo 
 chains after finishing the previous group of chains. This is really sweet and actually helps you 
 to easily fill up your opponents screen with white puyos or save yourself from white puyos that 
 will soon fall to your screen, because you can make many combos with fever mode.
  
  Puyo Pop Fever is more of a port from the console version, mainly because the game does not use 
 the DS unique capabilities into the action. The top screen shows the action were you are joining 
 the puyos while on the touch screen you see the characters that are battling each other. Each time 
 you make a combo your character will hit the opponent. Is a pretty lame use of the touch screen, 
 although you can control the falling puyos with the touch screen, the d-pad is actually more responsive 
 then the touch screen. There is practically in other words nothing new or innovative in Puyo Pop 
 Fever with the DS capabilities, but still it doesnt low the fun gameplay experience that you are 
 getting.
  
  The game does offer other modes to play in: an infinite game of puyos, the fever mode only to practice 
 your combos, and other simple modes. While none of these modes are quite entertaining has the main 
 one is still offers something for everyone. The multiplayer is pretty nice since you can battle 
 with up to 8 people at the same time, which is madness of fun. The also really good thing is that 
 you can play it with only one single cartridge needed.
  
  The graphics on this game are not much to talk about since they are quite repetitive. There is 
 nothing fancy here to see only puyos appearing and disappearing. Characters look like anime ones, 
 in other words pretty weird. The backgrounds are very simplistic, but then again it gets all covered 
 up by puyos so you might not even know what the background is is all about. The background for 
 fever mode might look to plain but fits nicely when fever mode starts. The game itself might look 
 like a simplistic package in graphics, but is colorful and very active unlike Polarium that had 
 too many bland white and black blocks.
  
  The audio here is also nothing really big to expect. The music fits in nicely with the puzzle action, 
 although sometimes some songs sound similar to others which make things feel not so varied. The 
 sound effects are nothing to really hear, the only effects that you will hear frequent is when 
 you do a combo and disappear those puyos. There are some voiceovers on the characters saying they 
 are winning or screaming of happiness when they do a combo. Now there is one big problem I found 
 when using the headphones and it was that your character constantly started saying a line that 
 sounded like yeah so many times while playing. The thing is that this doesnt happen when you 
 dont use the headphones, must have been a glitch.
  
  Puyo Pop Fever does not deliver anything astonishing in the graphics or the sound department but 
 the addictive gameplay is what Puyo Pop Fever is all about. Multiplayer is certainly fun to play 
 with your friends too. Puyo Pop Fever may not be different has the consoles version but the game 
 itself feels more interesting to play it anywhere in a portable. Puyo Pop Fever is another puzzle 
 hit for fans of the genre that own a DS.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: DefaultGen
Rating: 7.1
Date: Aug 14, 2005 10:17 pm PT
Review:  I've been a "Puyo" game fan since Dr. Robotniks Mean Bean Machine. Naturally when I saw it for 
 DS, I hadn't played it in a while, and I decided to pick it up. Puyo Pop is a decent puzzle game 
 in which different colored beans fall from the sky, and you have to stack them in groups of 4 so 
 they explode and grant you magic powers (Yes explode and grant you magic powers) . The whole idea 
 of the game is to start racking up big combos by exploding more beans at once.
  
  ~ Mini Review ~
  
  Its a lot of fun for a while but the size of the screen kinda hinders gameplay 
 a bit and the tough AI may be too much for some puzzle game novices. The touch screen controls 
 are useless, but its a nice change to use the buttons. This game might as well be a GBA game since 
 only one screen is really used and the touch screen is useless. The sound is repetitive and kinda 
 boring and annoying. The game can get dull after a while unless you have lots of friends to play 
 with, but it's a good purchase for those looking for a DS puzzle game besides Meteos.
  
  - - - - - Gameplay 7/10 - - - - -
  
  Its exactly like any other game of it's type. You play 
 against an opponent (both of your playing fields are on the screen) while beans drop from the sky 
 and you work to position them in groups of 4. When you get big combos, useless nuisance beans start 
 to fall on your opponents area, hindering them a bit. When one player's screen fills up with beans... 
 they lose! Its fairly simple. The playing area seems a little small, especially on the DS screen 
 where you can have up to 4 playing fields on 1 screen in an 8-player battle. The fever mode is 
 basically just a little bonus where you get to see big combos play out. Its nothing too interesting 
 and if you already own a Puyo Pop for GBA, there isn't enough here to justify purchasing this game. 
 There is a solo-mode which is rather pointless and unchallenging (You can literally go through 
 dozens of levels of play without thinking) .
  
  The absolute best part about Puyo Pop Fever is the ability to have... 8 player matches! Nothing 
 like this has been done with a Puyo-type game before and it is absolutely FRANTIC. Especially with 
 the AI. You and 7 other people or CPUs start getting damaged by everyone elses combos. Its really 
 hectic and the sound becomes really annoying but it's very, very cool. It's single cart play so 
 if you have 3 or more friends who are into puzzle games... this is DEFINIETLY a must-buy for the 
 multiplayer. Its rather hard against the AI since the AI is kinda amazing but its still fun for 
 a while. 
  
  Other than the single duels, solo mode, and awesome multiplayer, there is a little story mode. 
 There are 3 sets of stages. A training stage mediocrely teaches you how to play (I wouldn't have 
 understood unless I'd played the game before and even then I had to read the manual) . The AI ranges 
 incredibly. At first, the game is very easy. Soon though, the AI becomes much faster than most 
 people can possibly react and you'll find yourself buried under absolutely rediculous combos that 
 the AI pulls off over and over and over. Sometimes the difficulty of the AI is just plain frustrating. 
 The AI plays at the same skill no matter what difficulty level it's set on. The difficulty just 
 changes how many colored beans he has. The single player won't last too long but it has good replay 
 value.
  
  - - - - - Graphics 6/10 - - - - -
  
  It's a puzzle game, you shouldn't expect much in this department. The game has a 2d anime art style 
 and in-game all you really see are 2d beans falling onto a flat playing field. The backgrounds 
 are OK, and there are a few lame cut scenes but really the only reason this even gets a 6 is because 
 it can't do much better for a puzzle game. The style is very cutesy. The menus kind of remind me 
 of Super Monkey Ball. On the positive side, however, everything is brilliantly colorful. You can't 
 possibly complain that the graphics are dull.
  
  - - - - - Sound 5/10 - - - - -
  
  The least important, and worst part of Puyo Pop Fever is the sound. The music is upbeat and fitting 
 yet far, far from memorable like in other puzzle games i've played. Theres some OK voice for characters, 
 but the girl has an annoying voice. Every time you get a combo the girl will (in her high pitched 
 voice) cast a spell and shout its name like "Lightning BOLT!!" Unfortunately, theres only about 
 3 or 4 spells. Meaning if you're good at the game and get a lot of combos, you'll be hearing that 
 repeating spell over, and over, and over. Until you just want to shut off the volume.
  
  I need to start a new paragraph to discuss the next issue. It is one of the worst parts of this 
 game by far. With the DS microphone, even in one player, if it picks up the slightest whisper, 
 your character will say a little catch phrase (depending on who you are) . Now I can understand 
 this in multiplayer to taunt the other players but... if you're taking a car ride and the car is 
 rather noisy or the radio is on... The sound of the game will be overtaken by your character taunting 
 "Right on" "Right on" "Right on" "Right on" "Right on" "Right on"
  
  Simply put, just turn off the sound.
  
  - - - - - Value 8/10 - - - - -
  
  As a puzzle game, 
 you can obviously beat Puyo Pop in a mere couple hours. And as a puzzle game, you can obviously 
 play Puyo Pop again and again. It's meant to be played in one sitting as there is no save feature 
 besides high scores. The game is pretty fun to play for about 20-30 minutes but it gets repetitive 
 and isn't really for long periods of play. The multiplayer in Puyo Pop Fever is simply extraordinary, 
 and should be your prime reason for buying the game (Even if you just get it to play against the 
 AI) . Puyo Pop Fever does get boring (as every DS game seems to) after a few weeks. But its still 
 fun to pick up and play every once in a while. And with single cart multiplayer, you and up to 
 7 of your friends can engage in the frantic puzzle battle if they haven't yet
  
  ~ Other Notes ~
  
  Difficulty: Puyo Pop Fever is hard. Its definetly not for the casual puzzle 
 player or people new to the genre unless you want to be stuck in the lowest difficulty (it's not 
 a lot of fun in the lowest difficulty) . The AI, no matter what difficulty you put them at, plays 
 at a frantic pace. Its very hard to keep up with the AI at later levels, especially on higher difficulties, 
 I find myself replaying a level 4 or 5 times before I just manage to beat it.
  
  Learning Curve: The tutorial is kind of vague. Definietly make sure to read the manual with this 
 one. You should be a little intuitive too.
  
  Overall, Puyo Pop Fever offers an OK single player campaign with some of the absolute best and 
 most frantic multiplayer i've played in a puzzle game ever. There aren't really enough changes 
 to make owners of the first Puyo Pop (GBA) want to pick this up, but anyone interested in the series 
 should definietly take a closer look at this, especially if 7 of their friends have DSs and want 
 to be blown away. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: falconclan
Rating: 7
Date: Jul 22, 2005 11:33 pm PT
Review:  awww, the glory that is puyo pop fever... some may know it as dr. robotniks mean bean machine if 
 you grew up with the sega genesis. In this game there are falling um blobs that come down in different 
 colors. you must match 4 or more of these blobs in basicaly any way except diagonal. You learn 
 what to do moderatly fast... each blob can contain 1-4 blobs. some may be 3 blues some may be blue/red. 
 the only really horrible thing about it is the girlyness... the girl with the weird hat always 
 says stuff like "totaly wicked" or "blizzard"... it reminds me of what someone would say in the 
 late 80's early 90's: s. the other thing that makes the game a lil too girly is the colors of the 
 blobs (all bright coming in blue, green, red, purple, yellow) and when i say bright i mean bright. 
 once you get over the girlyness of the game it is very fun. i wouldnt reccomend this game to anyone 
 that either A) hates puzzles or B) if you think your friends will laugh at you... if you dont have 
 anything in common with those two things then you will like this game:) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mooselover99
Rating: 7.2
Date: Jun 3, 2005 3:01 am PT
Review:  This is a fun game and if you like Zoo Keeper and Tetris kinds of games, you'll enjoy this. The 
 only thing I would like to say is the playing field that you are looking at to put your Puyo's 
 together is so small. Could they of made this area any smaller? I think not.
  
  The mission area is fun and challenging and so is the single pop fever area. 
  
  I am having 
 a hard time changing the game music and so on... because I hate listening to the music while playing 
 but the game won't let me change to what I want. I have to call Tech Support. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cartoons4andy
Rating: 8.5
Date: May 25, 2005 8:40 pm PT
Review:  
  Dear Puyo Pop Fever,
  
  Ah Puyo Pop, you are one of the many puzzle games that exist out there. You start simple enough 
 at the start  match up to five-colored bean like Puyos in rows of four and more to clear them. 
 Clearing them drops the ones above it down, making more color group match ups if you plan ahead. 
 The bigger the combos I make, the more blank beans fall on my opponent. Last to fill the screen 
 up wins.
  
  However, you are Puyo Pop FEVER, so a new level of madness has been added to your already maddening 
 gameplay. You see, youre not going to let me just sit there and let me take all those blank beans 
 my opponent is giving me. If I have blank beans waiting to fall and I get a combo, itll chip away 
 the number of blank blocks about to fall on me instead of dropping some on my opponent. And every 
 time I do that, I build up my fever counter. Get it high enough, and Im in fever mode. Here I 
 have the opportunity to set up massive pre-made combos to really bury the computer (or get rid 
 of that huge mess of beans theyre trying to drop on me) . Granted, the other player can do the 
 same thing, but you are a fair game.
  
  Youre also so nice to my friends. If they have DS systems, you let up to seven other people play 
 against/with me all by yourself. This alone makes you a must have for any puzzle fans whom happen 
 to have a DS. And even if I didnt have anyone to play against (which in this case I actually dont) , 
 you still give me plenty to do. You have a great computer component battle (though difficulty settings 
 is a little hard to set up) , basic classic fever-less play, and a long speech filled storymode 
 (which really needs a save mode, since the later battles take several tries to beat) .
  
  Not to be content with just that, you go the extra mile to provide me with a second, completely 
 different and unique way to play  the touch screen! Slide the stylus left, right, and down to 
 move the beans. A little tap and it spins. Its weird at first, but once I got used to it I discovered 
 I had a whole new way to play! Yes, it gets harder to control at faster speeds then the normal 
 game pad controls, but since its fun and it works its more of a challenge then an annoyance. 
 You temp me, asking if I can play with it instead of the pad, and I do. And it is fun.
  
  And last but not least, there is one more amazing thing about you  your presentation. Youre not 
 like those other puzzle games like Tetris or Polarium. No, youre bright and colorful and loud. 
 Youre tunes are catchy, your graphics are sharp and lively, and your characters are overflowing 
 my ears with their hysterical shouts of enthusiasm. Sure, some people may hate you for your slightly 
 cheesy dialog and noisy characters, but I think it helps it in making it a puzzle game that really 
 stands out of the basic blah of just dropping blocks.
  
  So once again, thank you Puyo Pop Fever. Youre my best DS game yet, and I bet Ill be playing 
 you longer then any of those other games on my shelf.
  
  Sincerely,
  Andrew 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Yagami-Iori
Rating: 8.3
Date: May 5, 2005 4:34 am PT
Review:  Puyo Pop may look to many like just another simple puzzle game, and in its basic classic form, 
 it really is. But with the fever mode and "nuisance puyos," on top of the need to set up & use 
 combos to stay ahead of the competition, this game will keep you thinking, otherwise, you'll be 
 dead in the water.
  
  Gameplay- 8- This gameplay is amazing. It's challenging without being cheesy. The hard part comes 
 from linking up combos together, which, while easy to do in fever mode, is a challenge in regular 
 play. It's not like Tetris with straight forward keep things clear, but about wisely building, 
 followed by a large combo.
  
  Graphics- 8- While only being 2D, everything is brilliant, colorful, and animated. It's fun look 
 fits the nature of the game perfectly.
  
  Sound- 5- Probably the Achille's heal of ANY puzzle game. The music is fun and upbeat & fits great. 
 The sound effects also are great, but the voices for the characters range from strange to just 
 plain irritating in some cases. Without some of the worst voices, I'd say it'd be higher, but they 
 are there, so there is the score.
  
  Replay/Value- 9- While single player could get old, the massive multiplayer mode (up to 8 playes 
 at one or 1-7 bots or any variation therein) really help to boost this games' replayability. You 
 can play in teams, solo, whatever catches your eye. Best of all, the multiplayer is single card 
 playable.
  
  Tilt- 10- Thanks to all the different modes and options that come with this game, this game deserves 
 all the tilt it can get. There is just SO MUCH that can be done to make the game play how you want 
 it to. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
