-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Puzzle Quest: Challenge of the Warlords
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/ds/puzzle/puzzlequestchallenge/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 RPG context adds depth to familiar puzzle gameplay.
 Puzzle gameplay makes traditional RPG structure way more addictive.
 Lush soundtrack.
 Main quest is ridiculously long.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 Enemies can be frustrating, even early on.
 Cramped presentation affects gameplay.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Mar 20, 2007
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 8.1
Critic Score: 8.1, 44 Review (s)
User Score: 8.5, 877 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: D3
Developer: 1st Playable Prod.
Genre: Matching Puzzle
Date: Mar 20, 2007
ESRB: Everyone

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
The parts may seem commonplace, but Puzzle Quest's blend of RPG and puzzle-game convention makes 
 for something refreshingly unique and dangerously addictive. 

  For as often as developers attempt to marry distinct game genres hoping for a  
 result, they usually come out more peanut-butter-and-onion. Infinite Interactive's Puzzle Quest 
 is one of the rare exceptions, and the way in which it integrates familiar puzzle gameplay into 
 a traditional Japanese RPG format makes for an experience that is far greater than the sum of its 
 parts. The way these disparate elements play off each other helps make it an incredibly difficult 
 game to put down, and it finds a smart balance between accessibility, challenge, and variety that 
 makes it an easy game to recommend to just about anyone.  

          Puzzle games and RPGs just got interesting again.     

  The game's story and setting 
 splits the difference between the Japanese and Tolkien styles of high fantasy, producing a world 
 filled with knights, dwarves, a variety of elves, orcs, ogres, wizards, warriors, dungeons, dragons, 
 and so on, but all portrayed with a distinctly anime art style. The main story concerns warring 
 kingdoms, uneasy alliances, and of course, an ominous, creeping force of darkness that threatens 
 to consume everything. As standard as the setup is, the writing in Puzzle Quest is better than 
 you might expect, especially when it comes to defining the various characters that you'll fight 
 with and against. There's a simple character creator at the start of the game that gives you four 
 professions to choose from -- druid, knight, warrior, and wizard -- as well as a handful of different 
 character portraits.  

  At the start it seems like RPG business as usual. There's a nicely painted overworld map dotted 
 with castles, villages, and enemy strongholds that you'll travel about, taking on quests and fighting 
 the random monsters that block your path from one location to the next. You'll get new weapons, 
 armor, equipment, and spells; new characters will join your party; and once you establish your 
 own personal citadel, you'll be able to capture creatures and use them as mounts, craft new items 
 out of special runes found out in the world, and eventually lay siege on opposing cities. What 
 makes Puzzle Quest so interesting is how it uses a familiar puzzle game format to perform these 
 actions. The gameplay in Puzzle Quest is most analogous to Bejeweled. You're presented with an 
 8x8 grid of pieces that you can slide around one at a time. By lining up rows or columns of three 
 or more identical pieces, those pieces will disappear, and a random assortment of new pieces will 
 drop down from above to fill the gap.  

  If Puzzle Quest were  just  Bejeweled, it would probably get tedious quickly, but by applying several 
 standard RPG combat conventions to the formula, it becomes something much more strategic. Standard, 
 one-on-one combat is the most common game you'll play, and it's also the deepest. You and your 
 opponent, each using the same board, will take turns moving pieces, trying to whittle down each 
 other's reserve of hit points. Attacks are performed by lining up skull-shaped pieces, though you've 
 also got several spells that you can use for both offensive and defensive purposes. The spells 
 you'll start off with, as well as the spells you'll earn as you earn experience levels, are largely 
 dictated by which profession you choose at the start of the game. Spells can require up to four 
 different types of color-coded mana to use, and of course, you charge up your mana reserves by 
 clearing out red, blue, yellow, and green pieces from the board. The back-and-forth dynamic demands 
 that you think several steps ahead any time you move a piece, since you want to avoid setting up 
 your opponent with favorable piece positions at the end of your turn. In addition to the mana and 
 skull pieces, there are gold coin and purple experience-point pieces that can earn you extra postgame 
 bonuses, as well as wild-card multipliers, which can make the pieces you clear out worth much more. 

  Setting up rows or columns of four or five pieces is of critical importance during combat, as it 
 gives you an extra turn, and any time you can buy is useful, because even just a few hours into 
 the game, the enemies you'll face in Puzzle Quest can be downright merciless. Their spells are 
 potent, they have a lot of hit points, and they have a knack for setting up lengthy strings of 
 attacks that leave you depleted before you even get a chance to retaliate. As easy as it is to 
 get into Puzzle Quest, it can be damn frustrating too, and there are times when it seems as though 
 the computer is stacking the odds in its own favor. Still, even when you lose a fight, you earn 
 a small amount of coin and XP, and the only punishment is that you have to fight that enemy over 
 again. The other activities you'll perform via puzzle proxy tend to be a little more evenhanded, 
 and are just different enough to keep them interesting. Training a mount is similar to straight 
 combat, except that your turns are time limited. When capturing enemies, you're presented with 
 a carefully placed board that you have to clear completely, leaving no extra pieces behind. Learning 
 new spells and crafting items introduces specific types of pieces that you'll need to clear to 
 succeed.  

  When you gain enough XP to level, you're given points that you can distribute between seven character 
 attributes. The air, earth, fire, and water masteries will determine how effective you are at using 
 the different types of mana; battle determines how much damage you do when you clear skull pieces; 
 cunning increases how much gold you'll earn; and morale increases your hit points. All these factors, 
 along with your gear, your mount, your party members, and your spells, can have a profound effect 
 on how Puzzle Quest plays, and it's what helps keep the game fresh. Even if you stick strictly 
 to the main quest, ignoring the numerous side quests, the item crafting, the sieging of towns, 
 or the numerous other activities you can get into, Puzzle Quest is truly epic in size. If you consider 
 all of the content on offer in the single-player game, along with the inclusion of local, two-player 
 multiplayer, there's easily 100 hours of gameplay to be had here.  

          The single-player adventure goes on for a long, long time.     

  Both the PlayStation 
 Portable and DS versions of Puzzle Quest have their quirks. On the PSP, loading issues can cause 
 the game to hang for a second. These disruptive pauses can strike at almost any time, whether you're 
 scrolling across the overworld map or casting a spell during combat. They don't really ruin anything, 
 but they're annoying nonetheless. On the DS, the problems with the presentation are much more severe 
 and end up impacting the gameplay. The graphics aren't as crisp and clear as they are on the PSP, 
 and there are barely any flashy special effects. Most significantly, the puzzle playfield appears 
 cramped on the lower screen of the DS, and it's difficult to discern certain pieces. Because of 
 the size of the pieces, it's also easier to make mistakes with the game's mandatory stylus controls. 
 The content is still good, but these problems make the DS version harder to recommend. While the 
 presentation can be uneven between the two versions of Puzzle Quest, both feature some really great, 
 sweeping music that fits the tone of the straightforward adventure quite beautifully.  

  The appeal of Puzzle Quest for fans of either RPGs or puzzle games is quite obvious, as it does 
 a great job of scratching two distinctly different types of itches simultaneously. What's most 
 remarkable about Puzzle Quest, though, is how a simple change of context turns some tired genre 
 conventions that have been done to death into something that's suitable for just about anyone, 
 regardless of your interest in the components.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (63 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: Elarielle
Rating: 8
Date: Mar 21, 2009 8:43 am PT
Review:  To keep this simple, I'm going to put my review into a "good" and "bad" category.
  
  --------
  
  The good:
  
  - The gameplay is very addictive. Whoever thought of mixing an 
 RPG with Bejeweled was a genious.
  
  - When starting your character, you have some classes to choose from. This will effect what kind 
 of spells you get and such. I thought this added a lot to replayability, as you can always start 
 up a character as another class if you're dying to play some more.
  
  - The game has a point system where you can add points to different stats to customize your character 
 a bit.
  
  - I was very happy when I found out that you can do things such as getting mounts and sieging cities. 
 This adds a lot of depth to the gameplay.
  
  - You can customize weapons with runes.
  
  - There are other party members that you can get that will help you out on certain types of monsters. 
 You can also get extra moves by capturing monsters and using mounts.
  
  --------
  
  The bad:
  
  - The music in the game is not the best, and it's repeated a lot. I found myself 
 keeping the game muted most of the time.
  
  - The storyline and setting of the game are trite and corny. I tried to read the stuff at first, 
 but I eventually just skipped all of the dialogue and went straight back to the gameplay. 
  
  - The computer always makes the best possible move that it can make. It will automatically 
 do the 4-in-a-row gems that you will not be able to find. Most of the gameplay depends on luck 
 because of this. 
  
  --------
  
  All in all, I really enjoyed this game. It's probably one of the best games that I have played 
 for DS. If you're a fan of RPG's or Bejeweled, you should definetely pick this up. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Rej72380
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 19, 2008 9:53 am PT
Review:  There have been many different video game genres other than RPGs, of course, to implement RPG elements 
 into their regular playstyle. It is evident of games such as Ratchet & Clank, Mighty Final Fight 
 and the countless post-PSOne era Castlvania titles available. Now D3 Publishers has blended RPGs 
 elements into a genre that is more known for it's simplicity than it's in-depth approach -- puzzle 
 games. The end result is Puzzle Quest: Challenge of the Warlords.
  
  
  Graphicswise, the game is as simple as you can expect from a normal puzzle game. While the character 
 portraits, or avatars, have no frames of animation at all, they're excellent works of art. Also, 
 the world map of the game looks more akin to a U. S. road atlas than someting from an RPG, but that 
 is only a minor flaw and not a really glaring one. The puzzle pieces, as one can expect, consist 
 of jewels, skulls, purple stars and the occasional multiplier piece for quickly increasing mana.
 
  
  
  As far as sound is concerned, it can be either a blessing or a curse. Sound effects are very minimal 
 and there's only a few clips of voice acting. What redeems it is the melodic soundtrack, which 
 plays songs at random intervals.
  
  
  
  Controlwise, the game is very intuitive and simple to learn. To play the battles out, you have 
 to touch a piece using the stylus and touch the piece next to it to swap them, hopefull to a couple 
 pieces that are the same color as the first piece you touch. The touch screen is also used for 
 casting the game's multitude of magic spells, given that you have the neccessary mana of the right 
 colors to cast the spell with. An interesting, yet useless control scheme is holding down either 
 the L or R button to swap the two DS screens with each other.
  
  
  
  Regarding the gameplay, it is extremely addicting. The game boasts a grand total of over 150 quests, 
 most of which are optional sidequests to increase your experience and gold reserves. The game also 
 gives you the opportunity to capture any of the monsters by figuring out a "clear-all-the-pieces" 
 type of puzzle, difficulty depending on the type of monster. Once you successfully captured a monster, 
 you can research and learn it's spells or use it as a mount around the world, again depending on 
 the type of monster.
  
  
  Overall, the game is definately worth it's price of admission, and deservely so, as the gameplay 
 is so addicting, you won't be able to put it down for hours to come. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gggames_se
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 16, 2008 12:51 pm PT
Review:  You are a young hero living in the world of Etheria. Your father tells you about cultist activity 
 in the vicinity, and you are set to investigate this. Your investigations quickly lead to what 
 the kingdom feared the most; undead creatures have become a common sight, and they relentlessly 
 attack people of the land. These monsters are linked to the cultists  could it be that Lord Bane 
 has new sinister plans in the making?
  You must gather friends and allies to take a stand against this growing threat of the land. Many 
 challenges and dangers await  the world outside the castle walls is filled with monsters and dark 
 magic!
  
  Puzzle Quest: Challenge of the Warlords is a puzzle game that mixes a fantasy story with a rock 
 solid puzzle game. To take two commonly seen elements and bake it into one product proves to be 
 quite effective and fresh  giving this game the addicting qualities of a fun puzzle game and the 
 deep storyline and character development of a fantasy roleplaying game.
  
  This game starts just like any other typical fantasy roleplaying game. You get to create a character, 
 choose class (there are four classes available; warrior, knight, druid and wizard) and then you 
 enter the world of Etheria. If you have played some of the Warlords titles earlier you might recognize 
 some names and places. It's quite fascinating to see a new type of game take place in a well known 
 world like Etheria.
  
  You will all the time be presented with dialogs that lead you further into the story of the game, 
 like many other RPGs out there. However all battles in this game is resolved using this puzzle 
 battle type of game where you take turns with your opponent to try to match different colored balls, 
 skulls, money and stars with each other. Your aim is to get at least three of the same color or 
 type in a row, either vertically or horizontally.
  When you match balls you gain mana of that color, when you match skulls you deal damage to your 
 opponent, when you match money you gain money and when you match stars you gain experience points.
 
  
  You play this game entirely using the stylus, clicking your way easily through the options in towns, 
 and even more easily drag the balls and items you want to move when it's your turn. Thanks to this, 
 I think this game plays the best on the DS.
  
  The game is very unpredictable because random objects enter the field from the top to fill up gaps 
 when you match something together. Also your heroes skills affects the amount of mana you gain, 
 the amount of damage you deal etc. When you gain enough experience points you will level up, and 
 gain access to skills. These skills can be used by spending mana. There is a host of different 
 skills you can learn  healing, damage dealing, entangling (forcing your opponent to skip a turn) 
 and so on. Some skills affect the play field, and can for example clear an entire row, giving you 
 all the mana, stars and money in that row. These skills can be very useful and can turn the tide 
 of a battle.
  
  Most opponents you will be battling will have their own set of skills and special abilities. Most 
 of these you will learn about the hard way  like the thief stealing your money or the spiders 
 poisoning you, making you lose hitpoints every turn. You will need to use the money you earn to 
 buy weapons and armor to help your odds in these battles.
  
  Other than your standard moves and skills you will get extra bonuses if you manage to line up four 
 or more items of the same type. Your opponents surely won't let these opportunities pass by!
  The AI in this game is very calculative  making you feel that it cheats, as it seems to have foreknowledge 
 of what items will appear next, sometimes making impossible chains of matches that quickly could 
 eat away your hitpoints and chances to win!
  
  Puzzle Quest: Challenge of the Warlords clearly has an emphasis revolving around these puzzle battles, 
 and it is rightly so. It's fun to play, easy to learn and very addicting. They have also done a 
 good job at making the player feel quite okay even if he/she happens to lose a battle. You are 
 still entitled to earn some experience and the money gained in the game, so no matter what your 
 win/lose ratio is, you will still be making progress.
  
  If you don't fancy playing the story mode, there is a game mode called "instant action", where 
 you can select an opponent matching or being close to your level and battle against it. This is 
 preferred if you don't have the time for epic stories and just want a quick match. The extra nice 
 touch here is that your character improves through this, as you get to keep all the money and experience 
 you earn. The same goes for the multiplayer mode!
  
  You can save two different characters on one DS card. And to play multiplayer you both need a copy 
 of the game, and it only supports local games. Apart from these limitations the multiplayer mode 
 is extremely addicting and really makes time fly.
  
  When you progress in your quest, you will earn enough money to start upgrading your citadel. This 
 means that you gain access to even more abilities, like crafting unique items in the forge, learn 
 spells from captured enemies, train mounts etc. As the campaign is huge you really will be busy 
 for a long time with this game. We're talking hundreds of gameplay hours!
  You could argue that the game is quite repetitive  but it always will be dynamic because of the 
 constant changes that are going on  like your skills, the enemies skills, items and so on. There's 
 also the chance that companions will offer to join you, which also adds a level of depth and replay 
 value to an already massive puzzle game!
  
  The graphics are very clear and lush  depicting the world of Etheria more glorious than ever before. 
 There aren't any excessive animations, so in that aspect the game sure isn't flashy. Another negative 
 point I should point out is that there are some minor frame rate drops some times. This generally 
 occurs when there are lots of balls and numbers fading in and out at the same time. This doesn't 
 affect the gameplay in anyway, but it doesn't look pretty all the time.
  Also worth noting is that the graphics aren't as flashy on the DS as they are on the Wii, PS2, 
 or PC version.
  
  The musical score in this game is very appropriate  it's bombastic and epic, and absolutely helps 
 in giving this game it's unique feel. I really enjoy the music, and the sound effects are quite 
 good too.
  
  Simply put: this is a massive game that has a lot stuff going on at the same time. One moment you 
 will be puzzling the heck out of a monster, the next you will be browsing for new weapons at the 
 local merchant in some town, later to be conversing with the baron of the land. There's no other 
 way to put it; if you like puzzle games like Bejeweled and fancy an epic story, or wish that you 
 could increase your odds in a Bejeweled-like game through items and skills  then this game is 
 made for you!
  I have had many exciting hours with this game, and I know that I will have many more! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: stuart1044
Rating: 9.5
Date: Sep 22, 2008 8:30 am PT
Review:  I got introduced to this game by a work colleague, and at first it seemed a little boring. However, 
 after an hour or so of playing i was convinced of their opinions. I have almost completed this 
 game now (i think) , but even though i am looking forward to completing it, i probably will still 
 play it, as there are different types of characters, with different abilities to play the game 
 with. One thing about this game is that i am sure it hates me! Have you ever played a game and 
 thought that it always cheats? well this is that game! The computer always seems to get "lucky" 
 with the gems and the skulls that do damage.
  
  Regardless of this i still love this game, when i go to sleep at night i am sure i dream of the 
 playing screen and see the skulls in my mind!
  
  The downside of this game is that i always want to play it, all the time. I get determined to beat 
 a boss that may have got one over on me the day/night before.! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SkeletalKnight
Rating: 8.5
Date: Aug 6, 2008 7:35 am PT
Review:  Puzzle Quest caught my interest quickly when I saw it on the shelf. "I'm a fan of puzzles," I thought, 
 "and I love RPG's too..." To be honest I had assumed it would be a sub-par game; generic puzzle 
 gameplay with an RPG story of terrible fare; A world in danger, a princess needing saving, and 
 a chosen-by-fate hero (you) who is the last hope to save the world. Thankfully I was wrong. The 
 story does have some standard qualities to it, but the RPG gameplay is extremely evident even in 
 battles. The puzzles are Bejeweled style -matching similar 'gems' on the board to clear them- but 
 with a twist. The entire battle is played in turns, alternating moves on the same board between 
 you and your opponent. Instead of simply scoring points to beat your opponent, the RPG gmeplay has 
 you attacking your opponent by matching three or more skulls or by casting spells. Matching red, 
 green, blue, or yellow gems will store up mana for your spells, which will do anything from changing 
 the color of gems on the board, healing damage from yourself, or dealing various amounts of damage 
 to your opponent. Matching three or more stacks of coins will add some gold to your coffers, which 
 can be spent on new items or used to upgrade your Citadel, allowing you to learn new spells or 
 capture and train a mount. Matching three or more purple stars gets you experience, which will 
 obviously add to your character's level. 
  
  As you progress through the story you meet special individuals called Companions. After you complete 
 their initial questline the companion will follow you throughout your journey, and provide a bonus 
 to your battles like dealing an immediate 10 points of damage to an Undead enemy right at the start 
 of combat, or the chance to backstab an enemy for 20 damage. Alongside the Companions are Awards, 
 which you get for completing difficult quests, and which give you permanent bonuses such as a bonus 
 to a skill such as Morale or Battle, or a bonus to the mastery of an element (which lets you collect 
 more of that color mana) . 
  
  All in all this game is amazing, I've spent a lot of time playing the DS version alone, and I would 
 definitely say this game is addicting. This is a must-buy for puzzle fanatics, but even casual 
 puzzlers or RPG fans might want to give this one a look. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: evil_snuffkin
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jul 7, 2008 9:24 am PT
Review:  I'm not a big fan of consol puzzle games but I really like RPGs so I decided to give this one a 
 go. Puzzle Quest combines two simple elements of connecting three or more jewels in a row and a 
 classic themed fantasy adventure and produces something that is fun and will keep you entertained 
 for endless hours.
  
  Although the story is not the most spectacular on this platform it is enough to serve it purpose. 
 There are a few laughs, plot twists and a variety of characters that you will meet (if you get 
 them to join you they will also give you boosts or other advantages during battle) . As far as I 
 can tell the story is pretty linear but decisions you make will affect who will join or stay with 
 you and there is also a final choice you will have to make near the end which was a nice change.
 
  
  When you start your game you will have a choice of which character class and gender you wish to 
 play. You also pick a name and there is a choice of difficulty settings. As you travel around the 
 board you will fight monsters, take quests, discover new areas and siege other cities if you so 
 choose. Cities you acquire as well as your home city will give you gold and there are various buildings 
 that once unlocked bring new dimensions to the game play (e. g. mounts, spell leaning, etc) .
  
  During battles you have a choice of connecting puzzle pieces such as skulls or using spells 
 / attacks (depending on your class) . Having characters in your team may give to boosts against 
 your enemy and capturing creatures will open up new options too. Winning is a little down to chance 
 but mainly strategy; you don't want to let your opponent line up skulls or get the colour orbs 
 they need to unleash an attack.
  
  The graphics are up to scratch and are pretty enough to be enjoyed. Music is worth listening to 
 for a while though there's not very many tunes available.
  Outside of the main game you can choose an enemy and level to practice your skills against which 
 is great if you only can play for a short while. Saving is also very easy and outside of battle 
 you can do it as frequently as you like.
  
  I can't think of anyone who wouldn't enjoy it. Price wise it seems to be a little cheaper than 
 others on this consol too. Its simple to pick up but with so much to keep you coming back for this 
 is a game that is worthwhile adding to any DS owners collection. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: liugeaux
Rating: 5
Date: Jun 24, 2008 11:03 pm PT
Review:  I love puzzle games, and I love my DS. So, when I heard that the "fantastic game Puzzle Quest" 
 was coming to this platform I was curious and ended up buying it used. When I first started playing 
 it, it was very familiar, then I realized that it used the exact same game as bejeweled. I didn't 
 initially feel ripped off, due to the adventure-esq nature of the game. I thought the story was 
 cute addition and the taking turns style game play added some sort of variety to the Bejeweled 
 style play. 
  
  After a few hours I realized the Bejeweled gameplay is not conducive to multiplayer because in 
 order to defeat your opponent you have to make moves that don't help you and the jewels falling 
 from the ceiling are completely random and could turn the game completely around without any moves 
 needing to be made. That was the the most frustrating part of this watered down bejeweled ripoff. 
 Having a large chunk of the game outcome being determined by uncontrolled jewels that the CPU characters 
 can use at their leisure.
  
  Also, the fantasy setting that Puzzle Quest is set in , is a tried genre that barely has enough 
 strength to work through the Lord of the Rings Trilogy. I'm tired of hearing about orcs, goblins 
 and mana. If you like this sort of thing, then you will love Puzzle quest story and setting, but 
 if you have any disdain for RPGs you need to avoid Puzzle Quest. 
  
  Overall, Puzzle Quest's story is too weak to carry a generic puzzle more than past mediocre, and 
 the unforgiving CPU opponents make the experience a daunting and boring puzzle experience. Where's 
 my copy of Lumines, I need to get a good puzzle fix.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: adeehr01eb
Rating: 8.5
Date: Apr 6, 2008 7:21 am PT
Review:  I am a huge fan of RPG games and I have really gotten into puzzle games lately. So this seemed 
 like a natural fit for my gaming style. And I was quiet correct. 
  
  The game itself as a story line is pretty shallow but the gameplay makes up for it. Taking a basic 
 bejeweled game and making it mix with RPG style gives the puzzle game new life. 
  
  You basically battle against your opponent to make lines on a bejeweled board. When you create 
 the lines it gives you different things depending on what you matched up. Different colored jewels 
 will give you mana to perform spells with while other jewels will give you money or experience. 
 
  
  While this is going on you are battling against a monster who is also playing the same board with 
 you. You have to be careful on what jewels you line up and where others will fall as to try and 
 not give the monster an easy attack on you. As most monsters after a few hours have much more life 
 than you this becomes increasingly difficult.
  
  Once you get the whole battle method down though it becomes easier to see where the monster will 
 go with thier moves. You will also get the hang of what type of mana you need to perform what spells. 
 
  
  Any one who is into RPG's and enjoy's puzzle games like bejeweled should pick this game up. Very 
 fun and addicting! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: brandi1leigh
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 23, 2008 10:57 am PT
Review:  I am not a huge gamer. I have a DS mostly to fill empty times when standing in lines, etc. However, 
 I thoroughly enjoyed Puzzle Quest. I rarely play RPGs because I always feel like they are too complicated, 
 like I'm missing important parts of the plot. I did not have that problem with Puzzle Quest. The 
 plot is pretty straightforward with some side quests that are interesting. The easy to decipher 
 system let's you know immediately where you need to go next. You are welcome to make side quests 
 (which builds your character to defeat the big bad -- Lord Bane) . The puzzle is a classic. It's a 
 version of bejeweled, but "spells" have been added which cause interesting effects. Part of the 
 quest is determining which spells work best for you, and what spells you should use in conjunction 
 with each other.
  
  If there is one drawback, it's that the puzzle gets a little repetitive once you reach the higher 
 levels. 
  
  Overall: I really enjoyed this game. It wasn't so hard that I was discouraged, but it wasn't so 
 easy that I breezed through it. Perfect for a beginner like me. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Nehine
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 15, 2008 11:48 pm PT
Review:  i wasn't sure what to expect from this game. i have read reviews and looked at screenshots and 
 knew what it was about- just not sure if i'd like it. finally i found the game for $20 and i figured 
 i might as well. so i bought it and WOW its very addicting. 
  
  its pretty much bejeweled (i think?) but with an interesting twist. you take turns battling the 
 computer and the lines of colors you make count towards mana points. so when you collect enough 
 of certain colors you can cast spells. you can either do this to create combos of spells, like 
 stunning the enemy and getting 2 turns (various other spells as well) or you can create lines of 
 skulls. these skulls directly damage the enemy life points so they come in handy all the time.
 
  
  this game is just very addicting, i never thought enjoy this game that much, but i find once i 
 pick it up i can play for hours. apparently the game is ridiculously long as well. gamespot said 
 with the single player and multiplayer you can put over 100 hours into it. personally you don't 
 even need multiplayer, you can just put in 100 hours by yourself.
  graphics are nothing special and the story is still unfolding (for me anyways) but the gameplay 
 is highly addicting.
  
  my only gripe is that the computer can be EXTREMELY cheap. for example... they make a combo at 
 the very bottom of the screen and suddenly they get 4 line somehow at the top. then they get another 
 turn and before you know it they somehow have had 5 turns in a row and you're life has dropped 
 50 points and you're left there scratching your head saying "what just happened..." and don't always 
 listen to the suggestion theh computers make, more often then not it only helps them...
  
  overall i give this game a 9 because its just so fun and so easy to get into and learn how to play. 
 having a simple gameplay but a worthy adversary to battle against makes a great game. if you've 
 thought about buying it... just buy it you'll be happy :) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: amozarte
Rating: 8.5
Date: Mar 14, 2008 8:39 am PT
Review:  I often hear people refer to Puzzle Quest as "Bejeweled with a couple of RPG elements mixed in." 
 I believe such a statement is akin to saying a Ferrari is a Yugo with a bigger engine. Puzzle Quest 
 is so much more and a fantastic example of how to take an existing gameplay mechanic and evolve 
 it into something new and exciting.
  
  PQ pits you, the hero, against zombies, skeletons, and various other baddies as you quest your 
 way through the kingdom. You travel the map, acquiring quests from Queens and townspeople alike. 
 Battles use the basic Bejeweled concept of matching "gems" to score damage to your opponent, as 
 well as to generate mana, boost experience, and earn gold for yourself. The basic mechanic is just 
 as addictive as Bejeweled, but choosing a class, leveling your character, finding companions, and 
 all of the other RPG elements add a surprising level of depth.
  
  One of my favourite features was the ability to capture monsters and use them as mounts or learn 
 spells from them. In order to capture a monster you use the familiar game board, but instead of 
 simply doing damage until your foe is defeated you must eliminate each and every tile on the board. 
 These puzzles serve to change up the pace just enough to keep things interesting and while some 
 of them can be pretty challenging, the rewards are typically well worth the effort.
  
  As simple as the game appears on its surface, Puzzle Quest will have you coming back over and over. 
 Individual puzzles are short enough to pass just a few minutes at the dentist's waiting room, but 
 don't be surprised if the quests and storyline cause you to pull an all-nighter without even noticing!
 
  
  I highly recommend the game to anyone looking for a wonderfully unique experience! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: JerWroten
Rating: 7.5
Date: Mar 8, 2008 6:52 pm PT
Review:  I loved Puzzle Quest for probably the first 10 hours of gameplay or so, then I settled into a "like 
 it" stage, and toward the end it was a little, not a lot, ho-hum. It's definitely a good game, 
 not quite great. I found that the game was challenging until about half way through when I gained 
 the really powerful spells. You have to work your strategy around a central color and a set of 
 spells, which takes awhile. Once you have the highest level spells and you're able to lock into 
 your strategy, you just keep doing the same thing over and over until the end. I loved the graphics, 
 maybe there could have been some more costly and high powered weapons to level up with, about halfway 
 through I had the same items equipped that I had at the end of the game. Perfect game for the DS 
 in my opinion, the stylus works perfectly. It was definitely a unique game, I don't know if it 
 is solid enough to be a classic. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: onlyforthetrnty
Rating: 8.5
Date: Feb 29, 2008 10:06 pm PT
Review:  From $10-20 dollars, this game is somewhat of a bargain. Lasting over 20-30 hours of game play, 
 its worth the money if you finish the game. That is, IF you finish the game. I'm starting to become 
 unsatisfied with it half way through, but it still sometimes holds its charm. As many review have 
 stated, this game is a mix between bejeweled and an rpg. Matching the right jewels does damage 
 to the opponent, matching other jewels stores up energy for you to preform magic. You and the opponent 
 alternate turns, trying to kill each other by matching jewels. Sounds kind of boring, but it is 
 for some reason REALLY addictive in the beginning. After a while, it starts to wear off, and you 
 sometimes become reluctant to play it. Overall, its a pretty fun game that will guarantee you at 
 least 15 hours of fun, 20-30 if your devoted. I definitely recommend this game to everyone because 
 its a neutrally fun game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Waskallywabbit
Rating: 7
Date: Jan 25, 2008 8:27 pm PT
Review:  I'm going to cut right to it. This game has become one of the biggest critical darlings of 2007. 
 And for the most part, it does deserve it. There is little else out there like it, and for what 
 it's worth, the game is very addictive. In all honesty, you can't go wrong if you like a good puzzle 
 game. 
  
  But, if we are going to be honest... This is like Bejeweled 2 with a medieval theme playing in 
 perpetual competition. You take turns matching gems in an attempt to gain mana (to use in spells) 
 or cause damage on your foe. Using spells are another layer of strategy you use to vanquish foes, 
 and as you level up, you get new spells and you can buy new equipment. Take these roll playing 
 conventions and a slew of others that I am not going to take the time to get into, and there is 
 quite a complex substructure to this game. The problem is that little of this is actually compelling. 
 After the novelty of much of it wears off, I actually used little of it at all. The story, while 
 very prevalent, is sophomoric to say the least. I found most of it to be quite skip-worthy. My 
 biggest gripe is that the game can be very cheap. I have never played a puzzle game that actually 
 gives you a hint for your next move that often directly benefits the computer directly. I often 
 ignore the hint knowing that it will lead to the computer gaining the upper hand. Call me crazy, 
 but I am sure that the computer opponent is way too lucky more often than not. I'm not just saying 
 this because I am not good at the game. After twenty hours or so with the game, it is obvious that 
 it is lopsided to favor the computer opponent in every match.
  
  I don't think that this is a bad game by any means. I like puzzle games and this is an original 
 take that works on many levels. All I want to impress is that the raving that many reviewers have 
 done about this title is a little over the top for a game that is ultimately just a puzzle game 
 at its heart. Play and enjoy, just don't expect the revolution that has been touted for it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ExileAegis
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 14, 2008 5:38 am PT
Review:  It is The Problem That Has No Name. That strange sense of yearning in gaming of wanting to be more, 
 more than just violence indulging rejects. America wants us to be angry, angry nerds. But no, we 
 want to be noble, fantastic, puzzle-ie.
  
  Throughout the ages, games have become more complex. Very fake explosions of your avatar that were 
 represented by a scattering of pixels has turned into a blood spray and a slumping of your now 
 lifeless form. But if we turn this complexity on its head, taking a simplistic "battle system" 
 instead of a  Instead of realistic 
 cities, tiny dots on a map. Instead of an equipment slot for every feasible body part, four - two 
 armors, one weapon, and an other.
  
  We as Gamers, as people, can break through and find Puzzle Quest, the answer to The Problem That 
 Has No Name. In the cacophony of new material, we are gifted with something with a simple yet robust 
 battle system, steeped in more simplicity that facilitates fun and addictive game play instead 
 of being propelled forward by prettiness and curiousity.
  
  One should note: this is not a holy grail of gaming. It is an answer to a problem that has begun 
 to plague us. Puzzle Quest [at least the DS version] suffers from a number of small bugs. And the 
 writing is a little too simplistic in a lot of places. The game does manage to steer away from 
 an everything turns out alright mood, but sometimes the characters and quests make you want to 
 punch in both screens.
  
  Just remember, it's fun, it's addictive, and it's socially responsible to tell people that you're 
 not exploding people to have fun... today. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: strandiam
Rating: 8
Date: Dec 12, 2007 8:09 pm PT
Review:  The Good
  ________
  
  -the base Bejeweled style gameplay is pretty fun and addictive.
  
  -putting a puzzle game in an rpg setting is just awesome!
  
  -surprisingly in depth. I 
 had no idea going in to this game how cool the crafting, mounts, capture, research spells, etc. 
 aspect of the game was.
  
  The Bad
  _______
  
  -For now reason whatsoever, you are penalized with 5 damage and your turn ending by making an illegal 
 move. Making an illegal move gives you no sort of benefit at all so there is no reason to punish 
 it. Assuming you know 
  the rules of the game and because you are playing on a small touch screen, the only way you can 
 really do this is by an accidental misclick. It's punishing and frustrating for no reason.
  
  -I'm sure some people could claim that I am ignoring my good fortune and focusing on the bad, 
 but seriously, the computer is lucky. Sometimes, when you make a move, the pieces falling onto 
 the top of the screen may match up with current pieces and you might get a bonus match or even 
 two. On rare occasion, you might get a free turn in this manner. The computer on the other hand, 
 will do this constantly, often creating long chains clearing half the screen and going on for numerous 
 turns in a row. You might get lucky in this manner on very rare occasion, but expect your computer 
 opponent to do it regularly. You WILL experience games where you have complete control over the 
 game, opponent 3/4 dead, lots of mana, lots of health, and really close to victory, then the computer 
 will take a turn that will combine a ridiculous amount of windfall combos and free turns and you 
 will suddenly be dead without knowing what happened. You WILL curse and be tempted to throw your 
 DS.
  
  -The game has frozen up, crashed, or bugged out about 3-4 times in my playtime. This could be ignored 
 if it were on PC, but seriously, this is DS. I have never had ANY DS game crash on me until this 
 game. COME ON!
  
  Summary
  ________
  
  If you like puzzle and rpg, this is a very cool game experience unlike anything you have probably 
 played before. It is sometimes frustrating and a bit buggy, but still worth your time.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: tuesdaynext
Rating: 8.5
Date: Dec 1, 2007 7:47 am PT
Review:  Among my friends, Puzzle Quest has become affectionately known as Puzzle Crack. Once you play this 
 game a tricked-out Bejeweled you will understand how its earned its nickname. 
  
  Unlike traditional Bejeweled games, in Puzzle Crack players "battle" the computer (opponent) to 
 align gems in a turn-based mechanic. This becomes challenging because the computer might be able 
 to chain several gem sets and apply the results to "power-up" his special skills on one turn. Alternately, 
 the player might not be so lucky. As the game progresses, the player can build up their skills 
 with each "level up" and gain more spells or skills to defeat the opponents. Adding the battle 
 and spells/skills dimension to Bejeweled was sheer genius and makes for an incredibly addictive 
 gameplay. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jekyll
Rating: 8
Date: Nov 27, 2007 3:30 pm PT
Review:  One day, at a meeting for new game ideas, someone said, "let's find a way to take a standard color-matching 
 puzzle game and merge it with an RPG." Instead of the result you'd expect -- being laughed out of 
 the boardroom -- they actually made the game and came up with this charming, addictive title that 
 overcomes it flaws by providing a lengthy, rich experience that's perfect for either quick sessions 
 or wrist-punishing marathons.
  
  With a very simplistic overlay of RPG elements on top of a game that's essentially Bejeweled, you 
 travel from locale to locale in effort to find who's taking your people slave and for what nefarious 
 purpose. Picking from one of four character classes (wizard, druid, knight or warrior) , each of 
 whom is suited to using different abilities, you set off on your own, and eventually form a small 
 party, with each member giving you a bonus against different monsters. Standard combat is done 
 via taking turns on an 8x8 puzzle board. Matching three of a color generates mana to be used for 
 spells, while matching skulls deals direct physical damage. The real fun comes in setting up combos 
 and longer matches, as four or more gives you another turn, and against some enemies you'll need 
 them. The real innovation to the puzzle comes in other areas, as special puzzle boards with their 
 own twists are used to forge powerful items from hidden runes, capture creatures, and learn spells 
 from captured creatures. Your inventory isn't directly used as you never actually wield a sword 
 or swing an axe. Instead, equipped items might give you mana for spells at combat's start, reduce 
 damage taken, inflict status ailments, or award extra experience or gold from battles. As you advance, 
 expect enemies to have greater items and skills at their disposal and be more likely to get extra 
 turns for themselves in combat -- a battle you're winning can turn against you shockingly quickly. 
 The whole package works so simply, intuitively, and so well, that you'll enjoy every bit of your 
 quest to find and vanquish the evil plaguing your land.
  
  The game's length (especially compared to its price) is a huge bonus. If you do all the sidequests 
 and spend a decent amount of time learning spells and forging items, you can easily surpass 40 
 hours of questing. The wide variety of spells you have access to via captured monsters gives great 
 customization to your character, and finding that just-right mix of compatible spells that can 
 work together to bring you hasty victory is a fun challenge. The humor in the dialogue helps compensate 
 for the text-only presentation, and no conversations are so long that your eyes glaze over from 
 boredom. The fact you can do battles in just a few minutes make it perfect for short commutes on 
 a bus/train/taxi as well as a lazy afternoon on the sofa.
  
  The biggest gripe is that the game freezes on you -- a lot. You may experience one roughly every 
 90 - 120 minutes. The game auto-saves after everything you do, so you never lose anything, but 
 that doesn't make it any less lame or agitating. The shops that you find in town are the most useless 
 ever in an RPG. If you've been hunting and acquiring runes to forge items, you'll likely never 
 buy anything after the first hour or so of play, and items you get as rewards are similarly unremarkable. 
 The difficulty is a bit reverse-balanced, leading to much frustration around the time you meet 
 the first boss, but if you've learned and picked the right spells as you head towards the climax, 
 the ending chapter tends to be a bit on the easy side. The fact that there's so much left over 
 map at the left and bottom make you wonder why they put it there, almost teasing you that there 
 could've been more.
  
  The simple, stylus-only gameplay works well, with you sliding puzzle pieces into their new positions. 
 Going to a faraway spot on the map is a bit of a hassle, and a setting to automatically avoid enemies 
 when you're on a mount (instead of making you manually cancel each battle) would be a welcome touch. 
 The graphics are somewhat blah, and your feeling about them may be colored by your expectations 
 from the game. There's little to do in the puzzles but slide pieces, and in conversation there's 
 never any movement, so graphics were clearly an afterthought. The sound is decent enough, and each 
 companion has their own catchy little ditty for your conversations, but the tinny swords-clanking 
 sound when a battle is starting is below par. For the $20 you can likely find the title, the game 
 is a super value, even with little replay to be had. While fans of both genres will love the game, 
 it's likely to hold more appeal with puzzle fans who typically shun RPGs than vice-versa, yet with 
 the holidays approaching, it's a great stocking-stuffer for any gamer in your household. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ninjamaster62
Rating: 8.5
Date: Sep 28, 2007 5:59 pm PT
Review:  This game is absolutely addictive. I picked it up cuz I thought it looked cool, and I havent put 
 it down since. I play it all day at work now, lol. The gameplay is awesome, the characters and 
 classes are great, and the story is even kinda cool. Even after I beat the game the first time, 
 I still keep going back to level more and start new characters, and defeat all the cities to make 
 my empire bigger and bigger. It simply doesnt get any more addicting than this. The variety of 
 puzzles and objectives really makes it easy to spend tons of time on this game. If you get tired 
 of one mode, which isnt likely, then there are a lot of other things you can do. Great buy for 
 any DS owner 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DaveGray
Rating: 8
Date: Sep 26, 2007 5:03 am PT
Review:  You may have played Bejeweled before. The puzzle game, turned downloadable Internet phenomenon, 
 involved manipulating and matching colored tiles on a grid, clearing the tiles from the board, 
 and having more drop from above. Advanced players were capable of stringing together complex combos, 
 but casual players could feel at home almost immediately. Such is also the case with Puzzle Quest: 
 Challenge of the Warlords for the Nintendo DS.
  
  Puzzle Quest borrows heavily from Bejeweled, using the tile-matching format as the battle mechanic 
 for a role-playing game. The idea sounds strange, mixing two totally different genres, but it actually 
 works quite well, and gives you rewarding elements from both. In battle, the player takes turns 
 with a computer opponent flipping adjacent tiles to match 3-of-a-kinds or more. The different colored 
 tiles represent mana, which fills up in one of four magic meters, as they are cleared from the 
 board. In addition to the basic colored tiles are various goodies sprinkled on the grid, including 
 stars, which when matched, add to your experience total, gold, which can be used to purchase items, 
 and skulls, which when cleared deal damage to your opponent.
  
  Magic Spells are earned through a variety of ways as you progress through the story, and can be 
 activated during battle, so long as you have the required mana reserves. Spells range from healing 
 yourself, to dealing direct damage to your opponent, to clearing sections of the board, and many, 
 many other choices. As you add to your spell list, you may pick and choose which spells to take 
 with you to battle, based on your enemies' weaknesses, your ability to gain the required mana, 
 and personal preference.
  
  The main story mode allows you to navigate an overhead map of the fictional world, choosing to 
 follow leads of the main quest, or to branch off on side quests. The story itself is cookie cutter 
 and silly, told through text boxes and still images. The tale of undead running amuck, while a 
 Dark Lord rises up from the shadows only serves as a throwaway reason to get you into the puzzle 
 system. Occasionally, you get to make a choice that will affect you down the road, but the opportunities 
 are few and far between, which is unfortunate, because those couple of instances really added to 
 the RPG feel. Further adding to the role-playing aspect is how you and modify your character. As 
 you win battles and complete objectives, you'll gain experience, which can be spent leveling up 
 your character in any variation you choose. You can add to your proficiency at any of the mana 
 color types, which gives a higher percentage of return on matched gems, as well as a higher opportunity 
 for extra turns when matching said color. Or you can add to your battle skill, which increases 
 damage from matching skulls. There are others, too involving bonuses when matching gold or experience 
 stars. You may decide to focus heavily on one area, or evenly distribute. You can also equip weapons 
 and armor, which give modifiers to your skills. They are acquired through quests or through shops 
 in the various towns you visit. In addition to the main battle system, there are a few tweaks to 
 the formula to accomplish different tasks. As you explore the side-quests, you'll have the opportunity 
 to capture certain enemies. Doing so will bring up a modified version of the puzzle system, where 
 the objective is to clear all the gems on the board. This is a refreshing change of pace, yet still 
 feels true to the game. Doing so will allow you to learn the skills of that opponent. And you can 
 find runes to create your own weapons, done through yet another modified version of the battle 
 mechanic, asking you to match a certain amount of gems without running out of possible turns. Lastly, 
 some enemies you capture can be added to your party, as mounts, in yet another mod, where you have 
 to defeat enemies within a specified time limit. The one negative about these variations to the 
 original game is that some of them dont help you with your quest very much, and are a waste of 
 time, in the big picture. Its fun to complete to puzzles to craft weapons, for example, but youll 
 find that those weapons usually arent all that useful.
  
  All of these variations, from the different game types, to the different character choices, to 
 the variety of enemies and spells you'll face keep the otherwise simple game from getting stale. 
 It's a good thing, too, because the game is long, and you'll get many, many hours from it. You 
 will most likely still want to play even after completing the main quest, following up on loose 
 ends, or building your empire.
  
  Though being very enjoyable, Puzzle Quest does have a few stumbles along the way. The game doesn't 
 look particularly good, but considering that it's just a puzzler, that's forgivable. What isn't 
 forgivable, though, is the missed opportunity with decisions within the story. For an RPG, Puzzle 
 Quest is disappointingly linear, made even more apparent by the few times that it lets you make 
 choices. Also, while the game is very simple in concept, there is no tutorial or hand-holding to 
 get you started. Getting going seems daunting, because you don't really know how to play, which 
 is a shame, because the game is incredibly simple at its core and can be enjoyed by all once they 
 know what they're doing.
  
  In short, Puzzle Quest is a great addition to the library of any DS owner. A single battle can 
 be completed in a few minutes, which is perfect for gamers on the go. Also, it makes a fantastic 
 gateway game for casual players looking to get their feet wet with some RPG elements. Regardless 
 of your gaming experience or skill, for blending two genres in a surprisingly good fashion, you'll 
 want to give Puzzle Quest a shot. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dryden555
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 11, 2007 10:04 am PT
Review:  I'm over a dozen hours into the single player quest mode of the game and I'm continually impressed 
 with the depth of gameplay. You have to spend several hours before you start earning the more interesting 
 weapons, armor, and new combat abilities. Then you'll see how much thought the developers put into 
 the game. You can take over castles, research new abilities and MUCH more. The most important issue 
 that will make or break a game like this is the computer AI and this is where the game really shines. 
 The enemies will fight a hard creative battle and there are many different enemies with different 
 strengths and weaknesses: you need to think when playing the board. Quick moves without thought 
 will you lose the battle. Any downsides? Not really but later in the game you and your enemies 
 will develop the ability to radically change the makeup of the board in one turn. That kinda ruins 
 the strategy and planning element if the board keeps changing. It also adds the random possibility 
 of either you or your enemy getting massive points simply from dumb luck. This doesnt break the 
 game since there are so many strategies to choose from but it does mean you will occasionally win 
 a battle and you didnt really do anything to win. The computer can win in the same way. This is 
 bound to annoy some but the game is based on the idea of random gems coming onto the gameboard, 
 so there's always going to be some randomness in the gameplay. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Paxtonra
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 8, 2007 1:01 pm PT
Review:  I was amazed at just how much is packed into this awesome little RPG/Bustagem combi. The premise 
 is simple, power up your character to enable you to fight bigger, badder monsters quicker and more 
 effectively than the last battle; using the classic mana to magic game style grown to be loved 
 by so many, it also throws in a fair measure of bustagem, but with a difference - once you've 
 moved they move and that really does make all the difference!
  With strategy being the focus of battles: you capture mounts to give you special abilities (with 
 a training system included so you can improve their powers as you go!) ; you capture cities to create 
 a revenue as you travel around the map completing quests; you have options of Orders to join as 
 you progress; special Runes to be found so you can create your own specialised gear; powers to 
 steal from the baddies you capture, making you a more powerful enemy to all who stand in your way!
 
  You will loose hours and days on this number as you hack your way across the world to save all!
 
  If youve never played bustagem, its a simple concept and easy to play, what makes it more 
 complicated is trying to not give too much to your opponent whilst presenting yourself with as 
 much opportunity as possible! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: robbiesama
Rating: 8
Date: Sep 7, 2007 12:48 pm PT
Review:  I've always enjoyed playing Bejeweled, however, never enjoyed admitting it, or doing it when anybody 
 was around. This is a spruced up version that you might have even been able to get away with calling 
 it Bejeweled Extreme if it wasn't already titled Puzzle Quest! Basically it's the same old Bejeweled 
 gameplay elements, where the jewels you destroy essentially harvest mana for you, so you can get 
 the appropriate 'mana recipes' you need to cast spells. Also, other than mana jewels, there are 
 attack skulls, gold coins, and experience points there for the taking on the gameboard.
  
  Outside of the gameplay/leveling up elements of the game however, lies a cheesy story. It's enough 
 to keep you playing along however in future installments of this series, if there are any, it'd 
 be nice to see something a little more compelling. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: classicgameR4
Rating: 8.5
Date: Aug 25, 2007 9:20 pm PT
Review:  the game itself and the idea of it sounds amazing and it is but the game is good but not amazing. 
 its a little cramped but not really bad once and a while you may mess up but its not to common 
 in less your using your fingers. the difficulty is hard not medium but hard can be frustrating 
 but makes a good challenge i wish it was a little easier though. i didnt finish it yet i like to 
 play in short bursts it seems like it will be very long.
  Graphics: well youll spend most of your time on the world map where the graphics arent great and 
 there not supposed to but still youll spend a lot of time there. the parts where they wanted to 
 make the graphics good were really good like when you beet dugog. i dont obsess over graphics a 
 lot of times i like 8 and 16 bit more then others. so if your one who obsesses over graphics your 
 not going to find the best here but the gameplay is good.
  Gameplay: 8.6 the battle gameplay may get a little tedious after a while but thats why i play it 
 in short bursts. youll use the same type of gameplay with everything but with different things 
 like making items or learning spells or capturing things it is slightly altered. but there is so 
 much to do like i said capturing enemies, training mounts, crafting items, ruling cities, learning 
 spells, upgrading your skills, and more. so theres a lot to do besides the main story but all that 
 well keep you busy and sometimes frustrated. like i said earlier the game can get really hard. 
 there are a lot of items to get equipment wise and the equipment effects lots of things. i bought 
 the gnollkryss sword it is supposed to raise my max lifepoints but as i found out you could get 
 your life points 5 up in battle then once you lose or even win you start back over so after the 
 battle your lifepoints go back to normal. youll understand when you get it.
  Sound: the sound was real great, it was kind of repetitive after awhile but it was good before 
 it just looped over again and again.
  Value: wasnt worth the 30 bucks i spent but is still good
  did i mention the partners are pretty 
 much useless. overall this game was good not the best but good 
::::::

::::::
UserName: LordDax
Rating: 8.5
Date: Aug 20, 2007 7:32 am PT
Review:  I purchased this game around 3pm, then I had then next 12 hours disappear inside this games puzzles 
 and challenge. The game is highly addicting, even if the enemies can be totally unforgiving. By 
 the time I was done with the second part of the tutorial battle I was lv5, thankfully you earn 
 experience even if you lose a battle.
  
  The enemies will constantly capitalize on any mistake you make so after a while you learn to stop 
 instantly grabbing the easy combo and to start predicting what is going to move where when you 
 get rid of spheres. Proper use of skills can mean the difference between hitting the enemy for 
 15 damage or losing 22 of your own hitpoints. This addicting blend of gameplay elements has you 
 glued to the screen waiting for that perfect oppurtunity to really stick it to your victim even 
 if you tried to go to sleep 2 hours ago.
  
  But don't screw up... cause they are certainly waiting for the same thing. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nghtcrwlr821
Rating: 8.5
Date: Aug 17, 2007 10:35 pm PT
Review:  Puzzle Quest is your traditional RPG meets Bejeweled. You start the game by picking whether you 
 want to be a knight, mage, wizard, warrior, and so on. Each class has there own strengths and weaknesses 
 and some are more powerful in melee attacks while others are more powerful with magic.
  
  Battles take place on the bottom screen with your character and enemy on the top and they are turn 
 based with each person taking turns matching pieces. All you really do is play Bejeweled but instead 
 of jewels on screen there are orbs, skulls, and purple stars.
  
  Orbs are in a variety of different colors ranging from red to yellow, matching 3 of a kind will 
 give you a certain amount of power for that color. For instance red is fire, blue is water, and 
 so on. Spells require a certain amount of each color before you can cast them.
  
  If you match skulls you do direct damage to your opponent. Sometimes there will be red pulsating 
 skulls that when matched to a considerable more amount of damage. And matching the purple stars 
 will give you experience points.
  
  The whole concept of the game is simple but there is a lot of depth to be had. As you travel around 
 the map, by tapping the towns and castles on the bottom screen, you'll run into fights, pick up 
 side quests, get new party members, and even train mounts that range from griffins to giant spiders. 
 The game also has a story that is very interesting and well written. The story is somewhat of a 
 mystery because the undead and orcs are becoming more vicious that usual and it seems as if they're 
 teaming up to take over the land. As the secrets are revealed new ones are thrown at your making 
 a great story that will grip you keep you wanting to truck forward.
  
  While the game is as fun as it is, it does have it's share of problems. Sometimes the AI seems 
 a little TOO smart and will get endless combos making their turns last forever and some fights 
 will end in defeat without you getting a single turn in. There are also audio glitches with the 
 sound popping and coming out at a low bit rate. The game also has a tendency to lock up on occasion. 
 All in all Puzzle Quest has a lot to offer to the RPG fanatic and if your looking for a puzzle 
 game for your DS this is a perfect choice. You'll just get the privilege of playing an RPG. It 
 will also take you a very long time to finish with it running up to almost 30 to 40 hours in length.
 
  
  I give Puzzle Quest an 8.5 out of 10 because it's a great RPG and puzzle game that's dangerously 
 addictive, but it does have some glaring problems that should be fixed in a sequel. This is a game 
 you should pick up without hesitation. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Quackerdrill
Rating: 7.6
Date: Aug 11, 2007 9:47 pm PT
Review:  Combining a puzzle game as simple and plain as Bejeweled with an RPG sounds like instant death 
 when written down, but in practice it proves to be an odd but complimenting pairing. Puzzle Quest: 
 Challenge of the Warlords, as the game is pretentiously called, does just that and wraps it all 
 up in a portable package that may be one of the most addictive portable puzzles yet. The puzzles 
 themselves are basically games of popular web game Bejeweled with a turn-based setup laid on top. 
 If Bejeweled is a new concept for you (or if you are not one who partakes in internet-based casual 
 titles) , the goal is to match up rows of three or more similarly-colored gems by swapping one gem 
 with an adjacent gem. Puzzle Quest takes this basic mechanic and adds experience points, spells, 
 currency, and skulls to damage your opponent to the playing field, adding to the RPG aura. I first 
 expected the game to be as relaxing and low-key as most puzzlers on the DS are, but the turn-based 
 nature of each battle cranks up the desire for more complicated combos and a want to keep your 
 opponent away from crucial gems. In a way, the game is more quest than puzzleyou level up 
 your character, buy weapons and armor and venture from city to city helping people out. The fact 
 that every battle is essentially the same puzzle would usually be a negative, but the random nature 
 of the gem placement and the clever differences between the monsters you face make each puzzle 
 unique. However, the presentation leaves something to be desired. There isnt much going on on-screen 
 whether youre in battle or on the map; characters and cities are static and the backgrounds look 
 bland. Some of the effects such as combos and damage during the puzzle are distracting and sometimes 
 block part of the playing field. Also, the music is dreadful (I turned down the volume altogether 
 after the first few rounds) . But ultimately, this is a puzzle game, even with its role-playing 
 trappingsthe presentation is not the draw here. What is, however is addicting gameplay, and any 
 person who wants a solid puzzler for the DS is in for a treat. Even the hardest of core RPG players 
 may want to give this game a spin, maybe only for the cheese-ridden dialogue had between the NPCs. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: deviru
Rating: 8.4
Date: Aug 11, 2007 12:44 am PT
Review:  This is one of the successful mix of bejewelled and RPG... for anyone who likes bejewelled, this 
 is the best u can get.. for RPG lovers, u dont wanna miss this old style RPG game... And for thorough 
 reviews...
  
  Gameplay... its 9 for me... luv the bejewelled- style gameplay... and i can skip the stories... 
 yay for that... lolz...
  
  Graphics... hm... not so beautiful... a decent 7....
  
  Sound... a bit annoying after a while tho since most of the songs r played over n over again... 
 i give the sound 6...
  
  Value... i give this 9.. its worth ur money.. thats for sure...
  
  I personally like puzzle games, and so this game is one of my faves.. n it will be in my collection 
 for sure.... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DrCruel
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jul 30, 2007 1:49 am PT
Review:  Normally I avoid games involving abstract puzzles. Puzzle Quest, however, uses a rather straightforward 
 puzzle scheme for combat resolution, in an RPG format that is reminiscent of the old AD&amp; D game 
 - basically, the player goes around killing off evil denizens for xps and gold (or at least trying 
 to) , using the puzzle format as one uses funny-shaped dice in AD&amp; D. The result is surprisingly 
 fun, and the RPG format (complete with unlockable spells and specialty items for purchase or construction) 
 really adds a depth ot play one does not expect in a puzzle game.
  
  This game is becoming quite popular, and has a following that already has out various strategy 
 guides and the like. I'd seriously suggest looking at a few of these before getting the game, if 
 only to get a feel for the depth this title has to offer - multiple choices for character type 
 (wizard, druid, warrior or knight) and cutomizable stats make the replay value high, and there's 
 an instant action mode if you just want to spar with some random enemy.
  
  I hate puzzle games, and i gave this title relatively high marks. One can imagine what an actual 
 puzzle game fan might think of it. Highly recommended. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ahappyfool
Rating: 9
Date: Jul 23, 2007 1:11 am PT
Review:  Soooo, you're kicking back with your wonderful DS and some time on your hands. You want to play 
 a nice RPG like FF3 or something - BUT - you're also in the mood for a fun bejewelled kinda meteos 
 game. The problem? You want to play both, but ya gunna have to decide between all your cartridges.
 
  
  Well not anymore!
  
  And then there was Puzzle Quest: Challenge of the Warlords. And what a fun and highly addictive 
 game.
  
  Collects spells and tame beasts and go on plenty (stress: PLENTY) of adventures and travel all 
 over a vast map and constantly upgrade your character (s) and enjoy hours and hours of fun and simple-to-clever 
 gameplay. When your not battling monster a la bejewelled, you'll be enjoyinmg a long storyline 
 and adventures like a nice ol RPG. And when you finish the story with one character type (like 
 sexy female druid) , try it again with a warrior or ???. This game has a nice replay value.. and 
 I don't even know if it has a multiplayer (my gf's attention tweaks happily.. lol)
  
  I loved it.
  
  And if you like both game genres swirled into one.. you'll love this game too!
 
  
  enjoy 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Bakkster_Man
Rating: 8
Date: Jul 18, 2007 11:12 am PT
Review:  I love that it's a combination of two of my favorite genres, and nothing feels forced about the 
 presentation. Enemies have sufficient variety to be unique, and minigames are a nice twist. The 
 main story is also longer than you might expect. It's plenty long enough to give you your money's 
 worth.
  
  Unfortunately, random chance sometimes plays a huge role, just like most puzzle games. This isn't 
 a huge problem, since there is no penalty for losses, but it can be frustrating when your opponent 
 strings together a large, multi-turn combo just because it got lucky. Also suffers from occasional 
 random crashes that can cause a slight loss of progress. Nothing that forces you to give up, though, 
 since the game auto-saves after every encounter.
  
  All together a fun game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: delcidanddarth
Rating: 6.6
Date: Jul 10, 2007 2:56 pm PT
Review:  Welcome to the wonderful world of puzzle RPGs. I'm not talking to the gamer, I'm talking to the 
 developers. What easier way to make a game than to take a relatively small time RPG series (Warlords: 
 Battlecry) , combine it with a ubiquitous internet/mobile puzzle game, and you've got something 
 unique, yet familiar.
  
  The most important aspect of a game like this is gameplay. How does a puzzle game translate into 
 an RPG? Well, very linearly, actually. The two types don't actually mesh well together, which is 
 why they are kept mostly separate. The puzzle aspect is used primarily for fighting enemies, but 
 also other generic slots of the RPG experience, such as crafting items, learning spells, capturing 
 enemies as pets. Success during the puzzle-parts leads to experience gained (increasing your stats, 
 the Holy Grail of RPGs) , powerful items made, devastating spells learned, and, uh... luxurious 
 enemies made into mounts.
  
  But as a generic description of how gameplay works, your character (chosen in classic RPG fashion 
 from a handful of classes) wanders about the map, in straight lines between designated rest-stops. 
 Quite in line with the Battlecry mechanics. In transit or upon arriving you will be accosted by 
 various enemies, which initiates the fighting puzzle game, which looks almost exactly like bejeweled, 
 except for three additions. You have your 5 jewel colors, but additionally you have skulls, coins, 
 and... uh, purple spikey dog toys. It then becomes a turn-based bejeweled game, wherein you swap 
 positions of two adjacent things, creating a chain of at least 3 like things. 3 jewels gives you 
 mana for that color, which you can then use to cast spells, use skills, etc. 3 coins gives you 
 some extra money. 3 purple things gives you extra experience. 3 skulls is the primary attack option, 
 directly causing damage to your opponent. Lining up 4 or 5 things gives you more of whatever it 
 is, AND an extra turn. So, it behooves you to always take the time to look for these 4/5 chains, 
 even if you don't necessarily need that particular mana type... because you don't want your opponent 
 to get that plus an extra turn, do you? The fight only ends when one of you loses all your HP. 
 If the puzzle runs out of moves, both sides lose all mana and the puzzle resets. The other, less 
 used puzzle types basically ask you to gather X amount of each mana plus scrolls (for magic) , or 
 attaining anvils (for creating items) , or another fight sequence for capturing monsters, all of 
 which test your skill at playing the longest game of bejeweled you can (if you run out of moves, 
 you lose) .
  
  The story really stretches for a long time, all because of puzzle fights taking too long, and too 
 many quests requiring you to travel to the other side of the map, fighting everything along the 
 way. Which is good if you like bejeweled. The different puzzle types keeps the bejeweled theme 
 minimally diverse, and the class system coupled with classic RPG leveling/stat-boosting can provide 
 for some comforting replayability, but only if you like bejeweled. Have I repeated this enough 
 yet? One more time? Okay. Only get this game if you like bejeweled.
  
  The only other gripe I have is that the DS touch screen, although seemingly perfectly suited for 
 this type of game (anything that points like a mouse, really) , does tend to lead to mistakes in 
 swapping things, especially if you have twitchy hands. The PSP version shouldn't have that problem 
 as much, and I hear that the PSP version has better graphics, but I haven't seen it, so meh. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dcangel
Rating: 8.1
Date: Jul 5, 2007 8:33 am PT
Review:  I'll admit, I wasn't exactly sure what to expect when I fired up the PC demo of Puzzle Quest. I 
 mean, using Bejewelled as a basis for an RPG combat system? They must be mad, I said. That same 
 afternoon, I went out and grabbed the DS version. Shows what I know. Puzzle Quest is essentially 
 a common-or-garden RPG, but the addition of the puzzle elements makes it feel very fresh. Of course, 
 it wouldn't be an RPG without statistics, and Puzzle Quest has plenty of character attributes and 
 masteries, all of which have a subtle but noticeable effect on the combat. To vanquish your foe, 
 you both take turns on a Bejewelled grid, matching various different tiles to increase mana, snarf 
 up gold and Experience points, and ultimately to beat on each other until one of you runs out of 
 HP. Instead of making a move, you can cast one of various spells using your accumulated mana to 
 cause a variety of useful effects. The same essential mechanic is also used when you want to capture 
 enemies, learn new spells or forge items, except that you play on a single grid and have to clear 
 a set grid pattern or a set number of tiles of each kind to win. Even early on, some opponents 
 will certainly take a few goes to defeat. The AI is extremely ruthless on Normal difficulty and 
 initially it can seem as if the odds are unfairly stacked against you, but I prefer to think of 
 it as the AI just doing what an AI does - making the best available move under the circumstances. 
 Sometimes it seems that the AI gets vastly better tile drops than you, but if you look at it objectively 
 it's probably about equal. With a game like this there is always an element of chance. Anyway, 
 adjusting the difficulty to Easy makes things far more manageable until you've learnt the ropes. 
 Better armour and weapons (which you can take from your foes or buy at one of the many in-game 
 shops) also help to offset things by absorbing or reflecting enemy attacks, and boosting dealt 
 damage. The presentation is pretty good, considering the space available. Everything is reasonably 
 easy to read and use, though the interface can be a little fiddly. You work the main game grid 
 using the touch screen, and it's generally very intuitive. Sound is less brilliant, but still good 
 enough, with a variety of sound effects, a little voice work and some decent enough music. As other 
 reviews have mentioned, Puzzle Quest isn't perfect. What it is, though, is an inspired amalgamation 
 of two very disparate genres into one very addictive and original game, and while some aspects 
 leave a little to be desired, the core gameplay is solid and challenging enough to warrant a look 
 from anyone who enjoys either genre. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Ernice
Rating: 8.1
Date: Jul 2, 2007 12:12 am PT
Review:  when i first read about Puzzle Quest, i was quite delighted as i'm a big fan of the RPG and Puzzle 
 Genre respectively, and when i picked up my copy, it turns out that it really is pretty good.
 
  
  Puzzle Quest is a game with a very simple concept. choose a character with different special powers, 
 train yourself up, and battle the creatures you face with each quest you accept. in certain quests 
 you can even choose to perform a good or bad task. unfortunately whether you choose to complete 
 the good or bad task, it doesnt really have any effect on how to game pans out later on.
  
  the battle system is in the form of a bejewelled puzzle board where you have to match colors in 
 rows of between 3 to 5. with each color you match, you are basically adding to your mana pool so 
 that you can execute your different array of powers accordingly. the only pieces on the board that 
 are not colours are the experience points and the skulls. when you match the experience points, 
 well, you gain experience during combat instead of after, and when you match skulls, you deal damage 
 to the opponent. thats the only other way to deal damade besides your powers on hand.
  
  the game starts off very hard. and i mean very. you will find yourself perishing time after time 
 and in a rising level of frustration you may even feel like giving up. however if you stick with 
 it and slowly level up, you will find a very rewarding game experience despite the very poor graphics 
 offered. theres nothing fancy to see in Puzzle Quest - unfortunately. it could have been better 
 improved with cleaner graphics and some action sequence perhaps.
  
  overall, Puzzle Quest is addictive. VERY. if you do get the hang of it, i guarantee you will playing 
 it hours on end without breaks. such is the pull of the gameplay in this simple yet fun game with 
 little to offer in the other departments. but it still manages to succeed in quite a big way 
::::::

::::::
UserName: expert-yeti
Rating: 8.4
Date: Jul 4, 2007 2:39 pm PT
Review:  Puzzle Quest is one of those rare games that not only uses the full potential of the platform, 
 but also presents itself unlike any other game by combining two completely separate genres- RPGs 
 and puzzle games- very smoothly and sophisticatedly. The mainframe of the game is that you are 
 a citizen of a country that is under attack by forces of the undead, orcs, and other fiends. At 
 the beginning of the game, you choose which of the four classes- Druid, Knight, Warrior, or Wizard- 
 you want to play as. This element of the consequences of your choices helps develop the RPG side 
 of the game, because each of the four classes plays differently than the others, such as the Warrior 
 having more attack abilities than magic abilities. At certain times in the game, this feature of 
 choices will be presented to the players again; like choosing to help free an evil necromancer 
 or capturing him. While these choices can be fun and interesting, they ultimately dont affect 
 the games outcome, which is very much a linear story with many loose ends.
  
  Looking at the game play itself, Puzzle Quest is played by battling minions by diminishing their 
 life-points on the puzzle field by lining up in a row three or more skulls (similar to Bejeweled's 
 gameplay) , which cause direct physical damage. Another way to claim victory over your opponent 
 is to collect enough mana-different colored orbs- to cast spells that will alter the playing field, 
 cause damage, give you life points, or cause status effects. Each of the different character classes 
 have different spells they can learn by leveling up. As you level up, you will be able to add points 
 to your health, damage, and other skills; this can become the breaking point in many battle encounters, 
 as you soon learn to collect more mana of a certain color because your character can gain more 
 power from that color, which also plays into the RPG aspect.
  
  As you progress throughout the story, other RPG references will become apparent to you. First, 
 you can capture monsters after defeating them three times, which allows you to learn some of their 
 magic spells that would normally be inaccessible to you. The way you capture an enemy is by clearing 
 a special puzzle field of all the mana and skulls; this soon becomes very, very hard. Another thing 
 you can do is search out and defeat powerful rune-holders to win their runes. These runes allow 
 you to forge your own weapons by combining runes together, the end result sometimes being a potent 
 weapon at your disposal. These game play aspects, as well as others, help set Puzzle Quest apart 
 from other normal puzzle games.
  
  Unfortunately, Puzzle Quest isnt a flawless game. First, as soon as you turn on the game and reach 
 the title screen, you will notice the annoying music. After about ten minutes of the same few tracks, 
 you will probably want to turn down the volume and listen to your own tunes. Secondly, I found 
 that many times the puzzles would be the same and that the enemy, no matter what kind or level, 
 would play the puzzle the exact same way every time. Of course, this being a puzzle game which 
 are supposed to being randomized, I soon found this quite frustrating. Finally, the difficulty 
 of this game is extremely hard during the first few hours, and I soon found myself having to turn 
 down the difficulty until later in the game. These few quandaries dont ruin Puzzle Quest by any 
 means, but they hamper the fun a little bit.
  
  Puzzle Quest is an exciting and interesting breed of the puzzle and RPG genres with a few minor 
 setbacks, but is definitely still worth purchasing. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pit-U-F-O
Rating: 6.1
Date: Jun 15, 2007 4:13 pm PT
Review:  It was a whirlwind three week honeymoon with this game, then I just hit a wall. The utter randomness 
 of jewels dropping into ridiculously long combos by accident can be infuriating after a while. 
 It helps you or your opponent with equal frequency, and every victory can be considered lucky. 
 Conversely, defeat is just as inconsequential, just bad luck.
  
  What I've learned: rpg's would benefit from more interesting battle engines than your average stat-building, 
 play 30 hours 'til you're strong enough drudgery. Imagine if your car in a racing game got incrementally 
 faster with better handling each time you race it... Silly isn't it? The car should be ready to 
 race a beautiful race from the moment I grab the wheel. If I'm a good enough driver that is...
 
  
  Puzzling is an intriguing novel idea for combat in an rpg, but it needs work.
  
  How about a TETRIS battle engine?
  
  P. S. Turn the music way down or off or you'll miss some 
 nice sound effects. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Detroit222
Rating: 8.9
Date: Jun 11, 2007 5:44 am PT
Review:  If you want an RPG with a LOT, and I mean a LOT, of replay value - THIS IS YOUR GAME! You start 
 out by choosing whether you want to be a knight, a warrior, a druid or a wizard, then male or female. 
 And you simply start off. There is a storyline, and a boss.... but for the rest, it's your choice. 
 Save the princess, give the girl to the barbarian? Your choice. Fight the ogre, run away? Your 
 choice. It's your story, you write what you do, when you do it. And you don't die. For people like 
 me who get frustrated when they get killed and have to start over, this is a relief. And for people 
 like me, who love the game BEJEWELED, this is a treasure. It's Bejeweled, only with clubs and swords 
 and maybe you play the game, and maybe you just wack your opponent along side the head until he 
 stays down! (G) I can see playing this game over and over again, trying different combinations. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: September_Grey
Rating: 8
Date: Jun 9, 2007 12:10 pm PT
Review:  If youre of the opinion that RPGs have become stale, do yourself a favor and check out Puzzle 
 Quest for the Nintendo DS. Thematically similar to classic sword-and-sorcery role-playing games, 
 Puzzle Quest casts you in the role of saving an Arthurian land from an overwhelming dark presence. 
 But whens the last time you saved the world with a game of Bejeweled? With its unprecedented mixture 
 of stat-building and puzzling, Puzzle Quest becomes a great game whose originality and general 
 weirdness will get you hooked for hours on end.
  
  Starting out in Puzzle Quest is as simple as picking a character class. After selecting the Druid, 
 Knight, Warrior, or Wizard, youll be able to adjust the look of your avatar a little, and then 
 youre sent out to the world of Etheria. The main quest consists of an ancient period of invasion 
 by Undead forces, although there are dozens upon dozens of optional quests that essentially dash 
 the context in favor of good old fashioned sword-and-sorcery. Quests typically involve an introductory 
 conversation, a little moving around a world map, and quick congratulations from the quest giver 
 as a bookend.
  
  Of course, no matter what the quest, it all boils down to whats essentially Bejeweled. As you 
 encounter enemies on the world map or as part of a quest, youll be transported to an eight-by-eight 
 grid full of colored pieces. Just like the addictive puzzle game you know and love, youll need 
 to swap pieces to match up three of a kind, eliminating those pieces from the grid. Theres a bit 
 more to it than that though; the colored jewels on the grid represent different types of mana that 
 youll need for casting spells. So youll need to strategically clear different types of jewels 
 to use abilities that will turn the tide of battle in your favor. In Puzzle Quest, spells and abilities 
 affect the board instead of your enemy; Thrust, for example, allows you to eliminate one piece 
 from the grid to set up for a huge chain; Divine Right will clear purple stars of experience 
 points completely off the map and toward your next level up.
  
  The big twist is that you and your opponent share the same grid. So if youre not careful, you 
 could inadvertently set up a large chain of skulls for your enemy to link together, which is how 
 damage is dealt in Puzzle Quest. As you could imagine, the key to succeeding lies in finding the 
 right balance between charging up mana and then using your skills to set up huge damage chains 
 to deplete the HP of your enemy. Of course, youll also need to take a look at your enemys skills 
 and try and block off his advances of collecting mana and doing you harm. Meanwhile, your character 
 creation options basically affect the potency of some of your options available in battle. So Wizards 
 can collect mana quicker and will have more spells at their disposal, while Warriors deal more 
 direct damage with skulls.
  
  The combat works and feels great, in large part due to its unique design. Puzzle Quest manages 
 to take the rock-solid Bejeweled template and make it even more addictive through a persistent 
 role-playing atmosphere. As you lock puzzle-pieces with dozens of enemies, youll earn gold and 
 experience points to advance your character. When you level up, you can assign skill points to 
 make certain types of mana more potent, increase your maximum hit points, make yourself stronger, 
 and so on. Youll also be able to purchase or forge your own unique weapons and armor to help you 
 in battle. The only real problem with Puzzle Quest on the DS is that the screen feels too cramped, 
 and youll occasionally swap pieces unintentionally on account of the small screen.
  
  Apart from its gameplay, Puzzle Quest makes no concessions and is quite credible as an RPG, especially 
 in its scriptwriting. Although the story is about as generic as you can get, the dialogue isnt 
 too bad at all, if a little banal. The scope of the game world, even though its presented via 
 a top-down world map, feels surprisingly big. Also, youll appreciate how different enemies can 
 change the grid of battle in lots of different ways, adding a more complex layer to a simple puzzle 
 template.
  
  Puzzle Quest may not take full advantage of the DS hardware  it has the look and sound of a Gameboy 
 Advance game in most respects  but its addictive gameplay shines through regardless. It also feels 
 pretty good to play with a touch screen and stylus, despite a couple fumble-ups you may have with 
 the cramped space. Puzzle Quest gives you lots of RPG trappings in the shell of Bejeweled, and 
 if that sounds like your type of thing, the games lengthy quest will give you plenty of time to 
 indulge. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: thejoert
Rating: 7.2
Date: May 31, 2007 11:34 pm PT
Review:  It's a very nice game. Got me hooked right off, and it looks superb. There are a few glitches, 
 but they are easily forgiven. However, when you 'accidentally' kill the final boss in 5 turns, 
 where some grunts take well over 12 turns, it gets you thinking.
  It's not a game that you can completely rock at, due to it's random nature. A novice can outrandom 
 you by accidentally doing a 6 hit combo with the random blocks that are generated after doing a 
 move, while you've been trying to play tactical chess with the field.
  It's still a very good game tho. Definitely worth it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: CrazyP33
Rating: 7.8
Date: May 30, 2007 9:40 pm PT
Review:  Who can argue with the majority of players out there that have already reviewed Puzzle Quest? It 
 is an addictive game and it does take a new spin on the classic desktop PC game Bejewelled (or 
 Diamond Mind if you played the Popcap version) . It succeeds in being a fun distraction. I would 
 like Point out a few flaws I discovered after playing the game all the way through once:
  
  First is the length of the main quest. If you avoided all the side quests then you probably have 
 an adventure game that lasts about 10 hours. You are given a huge world map and yet the entire 
 games only takes up a quarter of it. There should have been more to it.
  
  Second is the leveling of your character. The game caps at level 50. Maybe the creators didn't 
 want you to become too powerful. It doesn't make sense to me.
  
  Third is the citadel function built in the game. You create your own city, siege every other city 
 you come across, and it doesn't affect the story in the least. The whole forging of runes and researching 
 spells seemed more like filler than an attribute to the game as a whole.
  
  The entire game was great but it felt unfinished. It's like the creators left room for an expansion 
 pack, which would work for the forthcoming PC version, but not a DS cartridge. Still, high marks 
 for a fun game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nickaepi
Rating: 9.3
Date: May 24, 2007 1:22 pm PT
Review:  First, I would like to ask, What the heck was Nintendo Power thinking when they gave this game 
 a 40% review score? I almost have to argue with Gamespot's 8.1. The flaws in the game are obvious, 
 yes. The music is repetitive and boring and the 3-D graphics could have been spiced up a bit more 
 for the DS version. Ok, so turn off the music on your DS, or set it to very quiet . The gameplay 
 is so great, that concentration in the graphics department for the developers may have distracted 
 them from focusing on building this masterpiece of a puzzle-rpg hybrid. Quite simply, this is one 
 of the best puzzle games to be released in a long time, since Bejewelled. Guess what gaming formula 
 Puzzle Quest is based on? You guessed it! Bejewelled. Add in 150+quests, wi-fi multiplayer, weapons, 
 armor and a d&amp; d style level-up distribution formula, and you have the sleeper of the year for 
 the DS. I think this game should be a contender for GOTY on DS, hands-down. You can argue a few 
 other titles and it may not win, due to it's relatively small fan-base , thus far. Once this game 
 goes on x-box live, this will become the hardest-to-find ds game out there, as it already has started 
 to become so. Go buy this game now and you will see what everyone is talking about. Except for 
 the reviewer at Nintendo Power, who most likely is color-blind, so he did not enjoy the game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: CreativePlug
Rating: 8.2
Date: May 24, 2007 9:09 am PT
Review:  In our day of running around trying to get from point A to point B, having games you can quickly 
 pick up, play and then put away is really the way to go. Now, not to say that anyone who isn't 
 necessarily busy with life can't or won't pick up this game and enjoy it... those who are pressed 
 for a lot of free time will enjoy this game for it's quick game play.
  
  The basis of the game itself is pretty simple. You choose a character class. You have Warrior, 
 Knight, Wizard and Druid. Each class of course has their choice of 4 different avatars, 2 male 
 2 female. Each of the different classes have their own benefits. But.. bla bla bla. I won't go into 
 all of that. If you want specifics on the game... read the GS review ;)
  
  Anyway... what I enjoy about this game is the fact that it's puzzle game with a pretty good RPG 
 skin and mechanics whittled into it. You have your special abilities that help you here and there... but 
 the bulk of the game is really like any kind of Bejeweled rip off I suppose. You match colors up 
 (blue, green, red and yellow) to collect Mana (which is used in casting spells and using special 
 abilities) and also match up gold coins to get more money to buy armor and weapons and such. You 
 also gain experience by matching up purple hearts that represent 1 experience point for each star. 
 Anyway... not going into all that. You match up 3 or more of each to collect them. The way you deal 
 damage to your foes besides casting spells is by lining up these little skulls. I enjoy puzzle 
 games as it is.... and having the setting of you fighting against another creature or person (via 
 Wi-Fi) just adds a really cool compedative twist to it. Sure Dr. Mario and Tetris are fun and classic 
 games... but it's interesting to put RPG elements into it ;)
  
  I imagine PuzzleFighter Turbo was similar to this. I never got a chance to actually play that game 
 on the PS. But anyway... this game is not too difficult to get into. However... finding a class you 
 can enjoy and strategize with may be the only thing that will require some time. I've only played 
 2 classes so far. It does lend it self to have a bit of replay value just with that alone.
  
  Anyway... for anyone who enjoys puzzle games.. this is definitely a game to check out. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sshamma
Rating: 8.9
Date: May 24, 2007 6:37 am PT
Review:  This game starts you off by going over some of the basics of the game, it is much like the Bejeweled 
 game for those of you that have played it, with some additions. The idea behind the game of taking 
 a puzzle game and combining it with an RPG-fashion story was very well done. They also added some 
 additional nice features such as being able to capture monsters that you encounter after you have 
 beaten them a few times. Also if you want too, one can simply fight monsters that you have encountered 
 before from the main menu without having to play the story line. Other neat features in the game 
 include your main castle in which you can build several different buildings that allow you to train 
 mounts, make items along with a few other activities. As the story continues and you build up your 
 spell arsenal from your class selection and spells that you learn from monsters, you pick up extra 
 companions along the way who give you bonuses against certain people or simply happen randomly 
 during any fight.
  
  The story line is nothing amazing and the ending is slightly difficult however if you have built 
 up good combat habits it shouldn't be too much of a problem. At the end of the game you have the 
 ability to keep walking around in quest mode which is nice as it allows you to capture the rest 
 of the people and monsters for collectors like myself who like to get everything in the game possible. 
 This time is also nice for going around and capturing the rest of the cities. Sieging is something 
 i did not start until a little bit later as i found trouble trying to do it early, however once 
 pass around the middle of the game (level 25 or so) it became a fun challenge.
  
  I fully recommend this game for RPG style players who enjoy a good puzzle and puzzle players who 
 wouldn't mind a good story to go along with the game and create a more dynamic experience. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: chimairawr
Rating: 8.9
Date: May 19, 2007 2:54 pm PT
Review:  Okay, I'll be completely honest. I bought this game because it was:
  a) well reviewed here
  b) quite cheap (&pound;20)
  c) partly like Bejeweled, which is good.
  
  But then I played 
 it. And played it. And played it. It's seriously addictive. When you first get into it, it seems 
 simple enough but then along come 4-in-a-row s and 5-in-a-row s and the difficulty ramps up. It 
 never really becomes too hard too soon, but expect to lose on a fair few occasions. A lot of the 
 time, you find yourself thinking several moves in advance to try to ensure your opponent is not 
 left with any openings to obliterate your defences. I've found myself on several occasions wanting 
 to just play a couple of rounds and ended up playing it for several hours. The RPG element isn't 
 exactly huge in the game (in my opinion) , so those who aren't really that big of RPG fans can easily 
 get into it. You could choose to ignore the options to upgrade your weaponry and spells etc, but 
 it is a better game if you do so. I have been playing the game for the past two weeks or so, and 
 I can see myself playing it for a very long time still. In short, it's great addictive stuff.
 
  
  Some people have had problems with the graphics, but my only one fault of the game is the the words 
 of 4-of-a -kind etc do sometimes impede your view, but this is only minor. Sometimes the green 
 and yellow orbs do seem to be the same colour, especially after several hours' gaming but if you 
 take your time when you can this isn't really much of a problem either. The touch-screen controls 
 are excellent, and though sometimes it will perform moves you won't want it to because of an accidental 
 slip, I'd still rather it to using the D-Pad.
  
  I haven't noticed the sound that much because I tend to play on my DS with the sound off. But the 
 few times I have turned it on, the souns have been good and the skulls sound effect is particularly 
 fitting.
  
  Try this game. There is a chance you won't like it. But it deserves your attention. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: thegrimguy
Rating: 8.9
Date: May 15, 2007 1:30 pm PT
Review:  On my third hour of playing this game, on my DS, I thought that it was the greatest game ever played! 
 This game is also way beyond addctive, it is staying-off-school-sick addictive!
  However like all games it does has it's glaring faults, for example especially on the DS version 
 I found that the graphics were fairly poor, and the puzzle board looks fairly cramped. I found 
 the puzzling itself very similar to Zoo Keeeper, but a lot deeper and a lot more exciting. However, 
 the controls generally work brillianty, everything works brilliantly! You can chat to others, buy 
 new items, armour and weapons from shops and take on plenty of new quests.
  It has all the qualities of a solid puzzler, it has a great story, and a really great character 
 building platform helps you to focus on certain goals. This game is easily one of the best handheld 
 games around and definitely the best puzzler/stat-building game on the DS.
  
  Graphics-65%
  Gameplay-91%
  Length-90% (huge main quest plus side quests and multiplayer) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ErikWaters
Rating: 8.9
Date: May 2, 2007 8:10 pm PT
Review:  Unbeknownst to many video game fans out there, a new game has recently slipped under the radar 
 that contains one of the most unique and addicting experiences of the gaming year thus far. Simultaneously 
 released on the Sony PSP and Nintendo DS, Puzzle Quest: Challenge of the Warlords is unlike any 
 game currently on Sonys and Nintendos portable systems.
  
  By taking one half of the extremely popular PC puzzle game Bejeweled and mixing it with classic 
 RPG elements, the developers at Vicious Cycle have crafted the ultimate genre-blending puzzle game 
 that takes minutes to learn, but hours to stop playing.
  
  As players are dropped into a stereotypical medieval fantasy world full of knights, princesses, 
 and mythical creatures, they are given the choice of numerous job classes, male and female character 
 avatars, and other small variable details that make the game feel totally exclusive for every beginner.
 
  
  After deciding on the important beginning preferences, players are sent on their merry ways to 
 inflict some puzzle havoc on the world map. After brief tutorials on how to successfully play the 
 game, Puzzle Quest really begins to take off in terms of depth and fun.
  
  On the surprisingly massive overworld, players will notice an assortment of castles, villages, 
 and creatures on the many pathways to exploration. As characters traverse the vast lands, theyll 
 encounter many obstacles in the forms of quests and battles. This is where the games addictiveness 
 really begins to kick in.
  
  With a name like Puzzle Quest, its no wonder that this games main draw is an addictive puzzle 
 game. Players familiar with the PC game Bejeweled will feel right at home in Puzzle Quests world, 
 while newcomers will pick it up and enjoy it within minutes.
  
  In battles, the player takes turns against their enemy matching items of the same color or nature 
 on the onscreen grid. Aligning three or more skull emblems will attack the enemy for damage against 
 their HP while matching a handful of colored orbs in row will reward players with precious mana 
 to use special attacks that can have adverse effects on the battle situation.
  
  When unable to attack or gain mana within a turn, players are encouraged to match other items such 
 as purple experience stars or gold pieces that will produce experience and money respectively for 
 accumulation at the end of a battle. This in turn will accumulate experience points that can be 
 used to level up characters as theyll allocate skill points in order to learn more spells and 
 bulk up in strength and health. Much like experience points, gold pieces will also amass from battles 
 and allow for the purchase of new weapons, armor, and other supplementary items. The best part 
 about gaining experience and money during battle is that regardless of winning or losing the current 
 fight, players are allowed to keep what they earn for their next retry.
  
  Despite the brief summary above, the sheer amount and depth of role-playing elements in Puzzle 
 Quest is staggering. Players can literally spend hours customizing their characters with various 
 armor, weapons, skills, and mounts to create their own personalized puzzle warrior and never run 
 across a friend playing with the same combination of items.
  
  Speaking of fellow Puzzle Quest friends, the game allows for some much appreciated two-player action. 
 This mode also allows the two gamers to keep any money or experience they may earn during their 
 countless battles, but two separate copies of the game are unsurprisingly required to play. Puzzle 
 Quest: Challenge of the Warlords is easily one of the must-have games to recommend for the Sony 
 PSP and Nintendo DS, but a couple of tiny flaws hinder it from being the absolute quintessential 
 puzzle game around. The biggest of these blemishes is the blasphemous lack of Wi-Fi online multiplayer. 
 Local two-player mode is definitely appreciated, but the hardcore players out there looking to 
 challenge the best around the country are simply out of luck.
  
  The only other glaring problem is the exceedingly capable enemy intelligence. Even for beginning 
 players starting out, enemies are incredibly unforgiving and will capitalize on every mistake players 
 make, making them more or less omnipotent about every piece on the board and available move. A 
 varying difficulty level helps solve this problem for the most part, but gamers will inevitably 
 feel like a chess player up against the infamously relentless chess computers of yesteryear with 
 the amount of all-knowing moves enemies can string together.
  
  Despite these minuscule faults, Puzzle Quest: Challenge of the Warlords is undeniably one of the 
 most addicting and satisfying games out now for a portable current-gen system. With its genius 
 mixture of puzzle and role-playing elements, Puzzle Quest is nearly impossible to put down. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Herr_Niemand
Rating: 7
Date: Apr 30, 2007 12:36 am PT
Review:  The game is a lot of fun - you've probably read the review so you know what it's about. I have 
 played easily 40+ hours already! I would score it higher but the game cheats like crazy at the 
 Normal difficulty levels - the only reason I've played it so long is by playing it Easy. The game 
 dynamics are fun although it is possible to build up game balance-breaking skills &amp; spells. 
 Still, a fun title to pick up at a discount, particularly if you like Bejewelled. The fiction is 
 faux-fantasy funny and the writing is great in its total boredom with the subject. Good times!
 
  Of note - the audio on the DS version sounds broken! It's terribly repetitive and generally I 
 play with it off - mileage may vary. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: NickMach9
Rating: 8.1
Date: Apr 23, 2007 10:49 am PT
Review:  This game is freakin awesome! The puzzles are fun and addictive, the gameplay is great. If you 
 love RPG's and puzzle games, you'll LOVE this game. The only problems with this game, in my opinion, 
 is the soundtrack, its repetitive and boring but just turn it off and your good to go. The graphics 
 are obviously better in the PSP version but this game was made for the DS, lets face it. I wish 
 there was a wi-fi multiplayer option with this game too, once you get on a roll you just wanna 
 puzzle-battle like crazy! This game is great, it is seriously the most surprising title for the 
 DS so far. If you dont have it yet, Buy it now! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Zafrod
Rating: 8.6
Date: Apr 20, 2007 8:32 am PT
Review:  I like puzzle games. I spent countless hours futzing with Bejeweled on my Visor Palm device back 
 when Palm devices were sported black and white displays and puzzle games were simply quick diversions. 
 Puzzle Quest takes it to a whole new level, however. There is real innovation here, not in gameplay, 
 but in presentation. What if each game of Bejeweled I played meant something? What if all those 
 games were parts of a whole... one big storyline advanced by each victory? I never would have thought 
 of it, but somebody did, and Puzzle Quest is the result. If you like puzzle games, this is one 
 you should own. If you also like role-playing games, you will have a hard time ever putting it 
 down. The character customization options are ingenious, the spells and abilities are well-designed, 
 and the story is... well, it's a story, anyway, even if it's not quite up to literary journal standards. 
 It is certainly long, though admittedly even when it was finally over I wished for more.
  
  If Puzzle Quest has managed to get your attention enough to read Gamespot reader reviews, then 
 stop wasting time and go buy it. You'll be glad you did. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: PATD123
Rating: 9.1
Date: Apr 17, 2007 4:34 pm PT
Review:  Now usually, I absolutely despise puzzle games. But this game is different. It combines an RPG 
 with puzzle game qualities for a VERY nice finish. The gameplay is, like I said before, very different, 
 yet awesome. You get to equip items, have level ups where you get to choose skill points, and the 
 old match-three-in-a-row concept. The graphics are a downside in this game, nothing looks very 
 good at all. The sound is same-ol same-ol, you're not missing out on anything if you don't listen 
 to it. The value is good, because this game can last you a while, there are plenty of things to 
 do, and it's a fun experience. The tilt is pretty good, because I'm not sure if this kind of game 
 appeals to EVERYONE, but, this is a very innovative kind of game. (My apologies for not being funny 
 on this review, I got a moderation warning thing on a review. I have no idea what I did so I am 
 afraid to try anything.) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gamefan519
Rating: 9.4
Date: Apr 14, 2007 10:19 am PT
Review:  This game is the best game in the nintendo ds. At first I wasn't sure if I should buy this game 
 but whe I started playing it one word came to my mind AMAZING! I totally recommend this game to 
 any ds owner. I am going to tell you the good and the bad things about this game. 1. The gameplay 
 is great because it's like a puzzle and rpg game.2. The music is great.3. The controls are the stylus 
 all the time. And 4. The graphics are great for a nintendo ds video game. Now for the bad 1. the monsters 
 tiring when you are about halfway through the game. And number 2. If you've been playing games all 
 you're life this game is not really hard. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sfenty
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 9, 2007 3:06 pm PT
Review:  Every DS or PSP owner should get this game. It is that good. The descriptions of Bejeweled meets 
 classical RPG are accurate, as are the assurances by those who have played it that this combination 
 works really really well. The deeper you get into the game, the more impressed you become with 
 the battle system. The game is incredibly deep and well thought out. You don't fully appreciate 
 this fact until you get into the game enough to use some of the more advanced spells, create some 
 special items, capture some creatures to learn new spells, capture some runes to make new items, 
 train up your mount etc. It sounds complicated, but you learn the game gradually and the game rewards 
 you for learning how to play it well. Just give this game a chance, and you'll be addicted. I've 
 never put in as many hours into a handheld game as quickly as I have with Puzzle Quest. The only 
 real question you should have with this game, is which version to get. I'll leave that up to you, 
 but I'll point out that the PSP version looks and sounds stunning, while the DS version has good 
 graphics and sound, but also has fantastic controls for this sort of game, and does not have a 
 bug that the PSP version has that disables companion skills, which is really annoying. That bug, 
 along with my general preference for the DS as a handheld (better life, clam shell design, no load 
 times) makes me suggest the DS version, unless are just all about graphics. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sonofdabeach2
Rating: 9.2
Date: Apr 6, 2007 10:50 am PT
Review:  I was very suprised how good this game was when I first loaded it up on my ds lite. At first its 
 a bit overwhelming because most have played a little game bejeweled before. Its a fun casual game 
 that makes you match 3 or more of a kind to get points. This is far from just connecting jewels 
 together for points. First off you get to pick a class anything form druid, wizard, warrior or 
 knight. And they all have different spells to learn and different ways of fighting. By now you 
 like hold up classes, fighting , spells I thought this was a puzzle game?? It is and so much more 
 let me emphasize on the more part. You have a story line you follow and you can take on many side 
 quests to better get you accquainted with the game. Also if you not into questing or forging weapons 
 and capturing foes to learn their spells. You can allwayz just play the fighting part of the game 
 on any difficulting level you want easy , normal or hard. But trust me if your not a pro dont' 
 try hard this game is hard enough as is lol. This game is not for someone that gets fustrated easily. 
 This game is very rough difficulty to it even in the beggining. Good to see too I hate easy games. 
 You are going to have to know your spells and pick and choose your moves wisely or they will be 
 your last trust me on that. This game is not a graphical marvel but its jam packed with stuff to 
 do , to get your guy equipped and ready to battle. If you are looking for a game to keep you occupied 
 and test your wits this is the game for you. Enjoy !! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: WinWalter
Rating: 8.1
Date: Apr 5, 2007 9:03 pm PT
Review:  Combining two unlike things, such as puzzles and RPG elements hasn't been done before very much 
 before so it is definitely refreshing to see such a new concept being exhibited finally. At the 
 beginning, you might think this premise wouldn't work.
  
  Puzzle Quest for both the DS and PSP allow players to take the role of a character of their choosing. 
 There are multiple classes with focuses on different attributes. After choosing a class and gender 
 and name, you are placed on a world map. The game seems very odd but you would think it was an 
 RPG at first solely because of the avatars and the cities and maps. What sets this game apart from 
 others is that the form of the battles, take place as puzzles. Head to head, you battle against 
 monsters and other people trying to beat them before they beat you. To do this, you have to line 
 gems 3,4, or 5 in a row. If you can pull of 4 or 5 in a row, you get an extra turn and sometimes, 
 you can get crazy combos where you can go 5 times in a row. I've lost more than a few times because 
 of this but it takes a lot of strategy to pull it off.
  
  There are mana gems, skulls, gold and experience. You actually level up from defeating monsters 
 and doing quests making your character better. You can then improve skills and make your guy better 
 at red mana abilities and so forth. The mana is so useful because you can use the colours for abilities 
 to stun players or get extra turns or do damage. To add to the amount of variety in the game, you 
 can also take over other towns who then have to pay you when you visit. You can also capture monsters 
 and learn their special abilities and you can even craft items from runes and buy items at shops. 
 You even have equipment and the list goes on and on. This game has so many RPG elements, it is 
 totally engrossed to the point that if you like RPGs, you should like this game even if you're 
 not a big fan of puzzles.
  
  The graphics aren't great but they are pretty standard. There aren't too many animations but the 
 map looks good. When the characters are talking to each other, they don't move or blink, which 
 is too bad. At least in Fire Emblem, they blink. One thing I do have to disagree with in the Gamespot 
 review is the issue of clarity of the gems. I never had a problem identifying which gems to line 
 up so I'm not sure what they are referring to but I haven't played the PSP version either so I 
 don't know if that version seems crisper.
  
  The story in the game isn't too, too long but you can play it multiple times making different choices 
 that impact your story and there are over 100 side quests. Sounds are okay but the main porblem 
 I had was some of the battle music. One of the tracks sounds very slow and boring and yet you are 
 battling a gigantic orc how is trying to axe your face in. It doesn't seem to set the tone well 
 but other than that, the music and sounds of gems are quite adequate.
  
  I got the game for thirty dollars Canadian and it was definitely worth it. I've lost quite a few 
 hours to the game already and probably many more to come. If you like puzzle games, or RPGS, or 
 even both, you should definitely give this game a go and see what sticks. You won't be disappointed 
 especially at that price point. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: colecago
Rating: 8.6
Date: Apr 4, 2007 8:07 pm PT
Review:  This game is just plain fun. Gameplay:
  At its core, its a puzzle game, but it is so much more than that. It has elements almost that of 
 a board game, with two players playing the same board simultaneously, strategy and move planning 
 becomes a must. Each battle brings something different, depending on what/who you are facing, you 
 might want to switch your spells up or equipment for reasons such as, getting more of a certain 
 color mana for a certain spell, or destroying the mana of an enemy so they can't cast their most 
 powerful spell. Moderately easy to learn, but difficult to master. The game also has rpg aspects, 
 you level up and can increase stats which mostly deal with the amount of mana you get from combos 
 and chances of extra turns. You can also buy buildings to do various things in different towns. 
 You can take over towns to get money, you can capture enemy's to get spells, or even train mounts 
 to get spells. The rpg elements don't feel gimmicky or thrown in at all, they work well with the 
 game. You will find yourself saving up for that one awesome item that gets you 2 more fire mana 
 every combo and etc.
  
  Graphics:
  It is 2-d, and not very impressive. It does not really need to be for this type of game, but I'm 
 sure they could have done a slightly better job on the map screen at least. The battle screen is 
 well laid out and has no real problems.
  
  Sound:
  Not very impressed, most of the time I just play this game without the sound off. It fits the game, 
 but when playing for hours on end, it does not really add to the game.
  
  Value:
  $30 new, standard price, but I think you get your money's worth.
  
  I wish the scores averaged 
 out better, you don't play this game for the sound or graphics, you play it because its pretty 
 easy to pick up, especially if you are good at these types of games (bejeweled) and its hard to 
 put down, you will find yourself saying, just one more round. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mikerotch75
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 2, 2007 4:39 am PT
Review:  While challenging from the get-go, that only seems to fuel its addictive qualities. There's so 
 much to do in the game, I can't even estimate how long I'll be playing. You can create items, capture 
 enemies for their magic, even trap and train creatures to use as mounts. Every step of the way, 
 challenging puzzle action drives you along, rather than the traditional tedious turn-based battles. 
 The combat action takes the great premise of bejeweled and makes it into a strategic 1-on-1 board 
 game where all of your items, spells, and attributes shape your performance. On the flip-side, 
 to develop those components, there are challenging single-player puzzles to challenge your brain. 
 So far, there's nothing boring about this game. If you can find it, you should get your hands on 
 it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bbsfs
Rating: 9.6
Date: Mar 31, 2007 6:43 am PT
Review:  It was the best game which I ever play on a DS Lite so far. But too bad, my game seem having problem. 
 Keep on hanging and in the end, i exchange for another game. Will get this game once they confirm 
 the batch is ok again. : ( Been playing it since day one and non stop, no extra time for other games. 
 Charged DS twice inorder to play this game, you can imagine how much I played it. Anyway, recommended 
 for all gamers, worth every cent you spend on it. Go and get it before all gone, BEST DEAL!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Xantiriad
Rating: 8.1
Date: Mar 29, 2007 8:05 am PT
Review:  Pros: RPG elements work really well; puzzle game is addictive and fun; well thought out equipment 
 and spells; great value for money; also available on PSP.
  
  Cons: Music becomes tiresome; occasionally frustrating
  
  The DS is awash with both puzzle 
 and Japanese RPG games so on first inspection the prospect of a game that is a hybrid of the two 
 doesnt sound too appealing. Thankfully, Puzzle Quest turns out to be both an addictive puzzler 
 and a compelling RPG.
  
  You start the game by selecting a character from one of four classic RPG character classes: Warrior, 
 Wizard, Knight and Druid. Each class has the same attributes: Fire, Water, Air, &amp; Earth (these 
 will relate to colours on the puzzle grid) ; Battle, Cunning and Morale. Each character classes 
 spells will be different and reflect the classes profession. Like all other RPGs, as you level 
 up you increase your proficiency such that you either specialise or generalise your characters 
 abilities. Equipment can be bought from shops and earned on quests to further enhance your abilities 
 or protect yourself in combat.
  
  The game world is a classic Tolkien inspired domain and full of the usual clich&eacute; s: the world 
 is filled with Elvin sounding locations, dramatic landscapes, and classic middle-earth style monsters. 
 The story revolves around your coming of age against the backdrop of an impending doom. Yup, youve 
 heard it all before Im sure.
  
  You navigate around the world using a map that slowly expands as your explore. Each town you find 
 has a tavern, for rumours &amp; quests, and a shop, for equipment, weapons and armour. The game 
 is fairly open-ended in that you can accept local quests from towns (for cash and experience) or 
 simply follow the main quest.
  
  Your home town, around which much of the games story revolves, includes your own citadel. The 
 citadel is used to research and develop new spells, mounts, and equipment. Initially the citadel 
 is empty, but you can purchase and build additional structures to allow various research types. 
 Most of the early research is based on defeated+captured creatures, so your first structure youll 
 build will be a dungeon to house them in.
  
  Most of the quests require you to investigate a defined location and defeat any creatures or bosses 
 that you discover there. The games creature combat is fought out on the puzzle grid: an 8x8 grid 
 of coloured balls - if you are familiar with Bejewelled then youll know what to expect. The aim 
 of each puzzle grid is to build up your mana pools to reduce your opponents hit points to zero 
 through the use of spells and direct melee attacks obtained through matching colours or symbols.
 
  
  The board contains red, green, yellow, and blue balls that represent the elemental powers fire, 
 earth, air and water. Matching 3 like colours in a row generates a small amount that elements 
 mana and is pooled so you can then use it in your spell casting. A bonus turn or multipliers are 
 awarded for completing rows of 4 or more. The board also contains skulls, stars and coins. Matching 
 skulls deals melee damage to your opponent, whilst stars and coins increase your experience and 
 wealth.
  
  You and your opponent take turns to swap two adjacent items (balls/skulls/stars/coins) on the grid, 
 using the stylus, in order to make 3-in-a-row. If you cant find a row, the game will prompt you 
 with a potential solution after 20 seconds or so. If there is no move available the game automatically 
 refreshes the grid and resets both combatants mana pools to zero. If you make an illegal swap 
 (that doesnt make 3-in-a-row) then your turn ends. Each combatant has an array of spells that 
 they can perform for a small mana cost. Many of these spells require the mana for two or more elements. 
 At lower levels both you and your opponent will have a limited set of spells to cast, but as the 
 game progresses you can earn and research more. You can only take six of your spells into combat, 
 so there is a welcome degree of strategy in selecting spells that will counter your enemys stronger 
 attributes.
  
  The spells themselves have a wide variety of effects, and different character classes have spells 
 that specialise in their field. Warriors, for instance, have more spells that deal direct damage 
 to your opponent. Whereas, Druids have many spells that effect the game grid itself, turning it 
 in your favour. On the whole, the spells are appropriately defined and nicely balanced for each 
 character. Occasionally you might come up against a creature that is perfectly suited to counter 
 your strongest spells and this can sometimes be a little frustrating.
  
  The puzzle based combat is very addictive and offers a surprising amount of strategy for such a 
 simple game premise. For example: do you concentrate in collecting your strongest elemental colours, 
 or try to grab your opponents favoured elements? Do you try to bludgeon your enemy with direct 
 attacks, or slow them down with spells that change the grid or reduce their mana pools? There are 
 enough variances to ensure the combat is always a battle of skill, strategy and a little luck. 
 In defeat you still earn experience points and cash, so you can always return better equipped for 
 the rematch.
  
  The graphics are functional but nothing special. There are some nicely drawn 2D characters, particularly 
 in the Anime style story, and the puzzle grid is clear enough on the little DS screen. It would 
 have been nice to have some better effects on spell casting and perhaps a bit more variety in the 
 backgrounds and textures.
  
  The sound is also fairly basic and the in game music is occasionally grating on the ears. It doesnt 
 really effect the game too much as you can play with the sound off, if you wish.
  
  Multi-player is supported via DS Multi-Card play (both players will require a copy of the game) 
 where you can take your character into battle with a friends. The lowest level character is automatically 
 levelled up (for that match only) to ensure a fair fight. It is a shame that the game doesnt support 
 DS Download play (only one player needs a card) , but it is still good fun to battle it out with 
 a game-owning friend (or wife in my case. and she always beats me every time too!) .
  
  I cant comment on the length of the story mode because I am still playing through it, but there 
 is an additional quick-game option so you can always get a puzzle game going on the train, or 
 in your lunch hour, after youve completed the main game. The Nintendo DS has always been perfectly 
 suited to the puzzle game genre, with its compact size and stylus user interface, and Puzzle Quest 
 could well be the best example of a portable puzzle game yet. If you love puzzle games and want 
 something that is addictive and rewarding to play on the move then this game should be near the 
 top of your DS or PSP wish-list. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cr0w0lf
Rating: 9.6
Date: Mar 29, 2007 5:44 am PT
Review:  Join to classic game types and create a new fascinating game. It's the case of Puzzle Quest: challengeof 
 the Warlords.
  
  Every RPG fan will recognize some of the most important elements of that genre of game but will 
 be amazed with the new elements that this game provide. At first I was a bit suspicoius of this 
 combination, but after some quests I was totally in the game. It really is a breath of fresh air 
 in to the genre.
  
  I recomend this game for every puzzle and rpg fans, but also for everyone who likes a good and 
 different game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Rayza_X
Rating: 8
Date: Mar 26, 2007 9:08 pm PT
Review:  The only other game I had anticipated other than Puzzle Quest, was Club House Games. The concept 
 of these 2 games are so simple, brilliant and there's no way they could screw them up. I wasn't 
 let down in either case.
  
  Puzzle Quest is the popular online game Bejeweled, but with a point. You follow a story, challenges, 
 quests and characters that lead you on a full journey into magic, history and imagination.
  
  When facing opponents, you each take a turn moving the jewels. You can use the standard line 
 up the 3 skulls attack, or get fancier with magic spells that do more damage, skip the opponents 
 turn, or heal yourself, for example.
  
  As in any RPG themed game, you build up your characters strengths, abilities, magic powers, items, 
 animals to ride on and meet people that will help you along the way. All in all, it is a fantastically 
 deep and involved game, far more depth than I had imagined.
  
  There are however, some flaws. For the most part, these will not take away from your enjoyment 
 of the game, they're more like a rough edge here and there that you can put up with.
  
  First of all, there are random black screen hangs. Your game is periodically saved automatically, 
 so when this happens, you can reboot, and pick up where you left off.
  
  There are graphic issues, the DS version obviously being the weakest but for this type of game, 
 the graphics will not detract from the experience all that much. However, there are glitches that 
 happen. 2 layers on top of each other on the map for example will happen randomly. You can try 
 refreshing with the X button, but it won't always help. Also, when you line up 4 or 5 gems in a 
 row, a text graphic will pop up and fade out telling you that you have a free turn. Sometimes 2-3 
 of these will all pop up together and get a little glitchy, not fading out properly. This is especially 
 true when forging a new item from runes.
  
  The actual graphic in question could have been done a lot nicer as well. It is a picture of text, 
 whereas a custom made font would have looked a lot cleaner in this regard.
  
  There are some sound issues, such as the music not being set to the volume you left it at the last 
 time you switched your system off. The music itself is somewhat clicky due to sloppy loop points 
 in some of the sampled instruments.
  
  The local multiplayer (no wifi) could have been done a little cleaner, like a rematch button rather 
 than disconnecting both players and returning them to the main screen after each match.
  
  There are a few other details, but I'll leave it at that. This game is fun, addictive and well 
 worth the money. Once you get used to the rough edges, you'll be losing hours of your hard earned 
 time in this game.
  
  Lets hope Infinite Interactive takes some of these points to heart when working on their next puzzle 
 RPG, Galactrix. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Dapsone
Rating: 9.7
Date: Mar 29, 2007 7:36 am PT
Review:  Puzzle quest has instantly garnered a place in my heart by effectively merging these two genres 
 of RPG and Puzzles. I have been an avid RPG fan for years and was looking for something on the 
 DS. However, it is very hard to get into a modern RPG on a handheld. Well, this merger with a Bejewled 
 style puzzle game is pure genius.
  
  You start by creating a very standard fare character amongst 4 types and you play the game as you 
 would any other simple RPG with obtaining quests and gathering gear and fighting mobs. But it's 
 in the way that you fight the battles that makes this little gem unique (I'll defer to the GS review 
 for details) .
  
  But the game doesn't end there; you have the ability to create a virtual castle with such addons 
 as the dungeon where you can capture your foes (if you've beaten them 3 times) and then learn their 
 spells. There are other addons as well, but I have not made it that far yet.
  
  You want more in this little package? Exit the game, and you can just do battles (i. e. puzzles) . 
 You can pick your foe, scale them to your level, or just let the game pick. And if that wasn't 
 cool enough; any gold or XP you gain from these side battles count toward your main character! 
 Perfect for if you just want to do a puzzle while waiting in line.
  
  The graphics are quite nice, however, I happen to have good eyesight. There is a lot going on and 
 plenty of detail in both of the screens, so if you wear glasses, you'll probably need to wear them. 
 But the colors are bright and there are some basic visual effects.
  
  The sound is nice as well with some actual voices (such things as quest completed , etc.) The music 
 is interesting, although I have already found it to be repetitive and have started to turn the 
 sound off.
  
  I have one complaint, however, the DS version is absolutely unplayable without using the stylus. 
 this is completely ANNOYING... I happen to hate using the stylus for gameplay and so usually do 
 not use it, however, in Puzzle Quest, you are forced to use it because the buttons/D pad do absolutely 
 nothing. The GS review mentions that this increases mistakes; well, I was fine until riding the 
 train today and ... tons of of mis-strokes due to the jerky ride. So, if you happen to have a PSP, 
 I would probably recommend getting that version.
  
  In short, this is the funnest game I've played in a long time, but the stylus only gameplay distracts 
 significantly.
  
  ----------EDIT ----------
  
  I wanted to edit this review: I changed my rating of the gameplay from a 6 to a 10 based on the 
 fact that:
  1. The stylus gameplay becomes second nature after just a few hours of play, and 2. The stylus 
 actually allows you to choose gems in the puzzle very rapidly; this is essential in some of the 
 higher level puzzles when you are playing against a clock - I can't imagine having to do this using 
 a D-pad to scroll around the grid.
  
  So, Get this Game! It totally Works ! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: smullster
Rating: 8.6
Date: Mar 25, 2007 11:26 am PT
Review:  Puzzle Quest... My Dark Mistress A name like Puzzle Quest doesn't evoke excitement, depth of play, 
 and fun - which is a shame, because this game has all of the above plus addictive game play. If 
 you've played Bejeweled, then you have the basic premise of Puzzle Quest. Mix in spells, Magic: 
 The Gathering-like mechanics and RPG level advancement and you begin to realize that this can be 
 a deep game.
  
  Puzzle Quest begins with the RPG element of selecting a character type (warrior, druid, etc.) . 
 Your choice of profession determines your starting spell list. Although I haven't looked much into 
 this (I'm still playing my first character as a warrior) , it appears that each profession is associated 
 with a color on the board. For those completely unfamiliar with Bejeweled, the object of the game 
 is to make horizontal or vertical runs of 3, 4, or 5 jewels of the same color. Runs are formed 
 by swapping adjacent jewels. At times a run can cause a cascade effect where more jewels are eliminated. 
 As runs are completed the jewels disappear (in the case of Puzzle Quest, the colored jewels represent 
 different kinds of mana) , and points are added to your mana pool for spell casting. As they are 
 eliminated, they are replaced from those that are just above them, with new jewels appearing at 
 the top of the screen. Play proceeds in a I go You go duel with the exception of runs of 4 or more 
 where you gain extra an extra turn. With a bit of luck and skill you can take multiple turns before 
 your opponent gets a chance. Besides jewels populating the board, skulls also appear which when 
 matched together subtract hit points from the dueling players. When a duelist reaching 0 hit points 
 the battle is over and the victor takes extra experience points and gold - all of which can be 
 used to improve the stats and equipment of your character.
  
  While this may sound convoluted, it holds up quite well. Your spells have various effects, from 
 dealing direct damage to your opponent, to increasing your effectiveness in adding points to your 
 mana pool. Set all of this to a story of undead creatures and monsters invading your home land 
 and you have the makings of a good story. Themes of betrayal, love, and honor weave throughout 
 the dialog and the choices that you make to advance the story. Even though you are playing the 
 same game for each encounter, you will need to modify your strategy to defeat your opponent. Do 
 you try for the quick kill or take your time gaining experience, gold and mana instead? It remains 
 to be seen if Puzzle Quest becomes a 'best seller', or a sleeper hit. In either case, it is definitely 
 worth checking out if you are a puzzle fan or RPG adventurer. There are huge helpings of both for 
 each kind of gamer. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: poohbear12
Rating: 9.1
Date: Mar 25, 2007 9:09 am PT
Review:  The good:
  Lengthy RPG with side-quests, and all the standard features, except a puzzle-like combat system 
 to keep things fresh. Music doesn't suck.
  
  The bad:
  You really gotta like playing Bejeweled.
  ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
  
  You might be wondering who to believe at this point. on the one hand, GS gives Puzzle Quest a rather 
 positive review, accurately describing the mechanics of what sounds like a ridiculous concept on 
 paper: take a standard RPG and make the combat a version of Bejeweled.
  On the other hand, Nintendo Power gives this a pretty negative rating, but no review. Who to believe?
 
  
  Well. it depends.
  
  If you are a fan of the style of RPG where you level up your character at will, buy and craft new 
 armor and weapons to outfit him/her, and head out on main and subquests to save the land, you might 
 like this game.
  The reason I say might has to do with the combat: as the official review indicates, this is not 
 as simple as pushing the A button repeatedly. To hack and slash at your opponent, you must play 
 the bejeweled game. Fortunately, the game is so full of elements of strategy that it keeps things 
 pretty interesting. The different jewels, when cleared, add money, experience, or mana to one 
 of several mana element types, allowing you to cast spells (to stun your enemy, do damage, etc) , 
 in addition to doing direct damage to your foe, who alternates taking turns on the same board as 
 you are using.
  
  There is no way around the combat system, so if you dont like playing Bejeweled, you probably 
 wont like this game at all. If you do, however, then wow, are you in for a treat.
  
  The official review is pretty clear in the description of the game, so I wont repeat it here. 
 What I will mention, however, is that they are way off the mark in terms of the graphics for the 
 DS.
  I find them crisp, clear, and easy to see. Using the stylus to click on your jewels to move them 
 is far easier than having to scroll around a pointer, making the DS version superior in terms of 
 control features to the PSP. Plus, no stuttering at all on the DS.
  
  One other thing I disagreed with was the frustration level playing this game. Basically, like any 
 RPG, if you want to have an easy time of things, you need to level up sufficiently, and have good 
 weapons and armor. This game is no exception. If you try to go too far on the main quest without 
 taking on some side-quests and random battles to buff up your character, you will indeed find yourself 
 in deep water pretty quickly. Luckily, there is no shortage of ways to level up (side quests, random 
 monsters blocking the path, buying trait boosts in your Citadel, etc.) , not to mention the item 
 crafting system, the monster-capture system (which allows them to confer extra spells, etc.) . It 
 is a deep deep RPG, disguised as a puzzle game.
  
  In closing, let me just say that it is about time games developers finally got around to making 
 proper use of the stylus. Recent releases tend to see it as a mouse pointer, allowing for PC-style 
 game control, something I think Nintendo was hoping would happen when they designed it. The new 
 games coming out (Theme Park, Settlers) are capitalizing on this feature, allowing some fan favorites 
 to become portable. Well done. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
