-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Puzzle de Harvest Moon
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/ds/puzzle/puzzledeharvestmoon/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 Unique design translates planting and harvesting crops into a fast-paced competition.
 You can link up four systems with just one cartridge.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 Not enough items, depth, or strategy.
 Whoever can scribble the fastest will win every time.
 Graphics and audio are low rent.
 No story mode for solo play.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Nov 26, 2007
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 4
Critic Score: 4.3, 3 Review (s)
User Score: 5.0, 31 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Natsume
Developer: Platinum Egg
Genre: Puzzle
Date: Nov 6, 2007
ESRB: Everyone

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Bad design choices transform this cheaply produced puzzle game into a mere exercise to see who can 
 scribble the fastest. 

  Puzzle de Harvest Moon tries to make a competitive puzzle game out of the sorts of farm-related 
 activities that normally occur in the Harvest Moon role-playing games. Up to four players compete 
 to see who can plant, nurture, and harvest crops on a small plot of land. The game is very simple 
 in that each step takes just a second or two and requires only a couple taps of the stylus. Unfortunately, 
 the designers took the simplicity too far. There's hardly any depth or strategy involved, so the 
 whole thing is really just an exercise to see which player can scribble the fastest.  

  The puzzle board on the touch screen contains a plot of land measuring seven squares wide and five 
 squares high. To the right of the puzzle board is an action menu that contains five randomly generated 
 items, such as seeds, watering cans, fertilizer bags, buckets, and farm animals. When you tap one 
 of these items and then tap a space on the game board, you perform that action on that space.  
 

           Players plant and harvest crops in real time just by tapping and scribbling on the touch 
 screen.      

  To represent the four seasons, matches last four rounds, and players score points by harvesting 
 crops during each of those rounds. To create crops, you first have to plant seeds on one of the 
 board squares then water and fertilize them. When you want to harvest a square, you can use a bucket 
 item to grab the veggies automatically or rapidly scribble the stylus back and forth on the touch 
 screen to haul in your crop. If you drop an animal on the game board, it will harass other players 
 by eating their seeds or slowing their harvesting efforts. Players have to share the same game 
 board and everything happens at breakneck speed in real time.  

  The developers made an effort to inject some strategy into the design by allowing you to claim 
 ownership of other players' squares just by planting seeds in adjacent squares. Ownership comes 
 into play when you're harvesting crops. When you scribble and yank up your own crops, you get full 
 points. However, if you yank up crops belonging to someone else, you only get half the points. 
 The problem with this setup is that the owner doesn't get points when you steal his or her crops. 
 So, it really doesn't matter who owns the crop if you can scribble quickly. Furthermore, you needn't 
 bother planting or watering at all because you can just sit back and scribble like mad to get points 
 from the other players' hard work.  

  Even if you strive to play fair, it doesn't change the fact that there isn't much to the design 
 apart from tapping to plant crops and scribbling to get points for them. Once you get tired of 
 constantly moving the stylus back and forth on the touch screen, you'll lose interest. The two-on-two, 
 quota, and survival modes shake things up a little -- especially because you get more points for 
 harvesting specific crops in the quota mode -- but not to the extent that you'll feel compelled to 
 play them any longer than you will the normal every-man-for-himself mode.  

  The cheap production values don't help. Visually, the game looks like it could have been made for 
 the Game Boy Advance. There's not much detail or color evident in the dirt patch or vegetables, 
 and the only life you'll see onscreen are the simple animations that show water droplets falling, 
 the plants jostling, or the animals walking around. As for the audio, it consists of some cheery, 
 nicely composed music, but the sound effects are just a repetitive collection of ticks, chimes, 
 and animal noises.  

  About the only thing Natsume and Platinum Egg got right with Puzzle de Harvest moon is that you 
 only need one cartridge to play wirelessly against one, two, or three other people. That's nice, 
 though you probably won't feel compelled to play the game yourself, let alone subject your friends 
 to it.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (3 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: darlene_vile
Rating: 1
Date: Mar 2, 2009 11:32 pm PT
Review:  I've never wasted $10 on a more worthless game. It's one of those games that's so awful that it 
 has you confused afterwards, thinking 'Is that the game? Surely it was just some weird minigame 
 and now I'm gonna get to the real game, right?'. Wrong! When you make a game that's really hard 
 with a frantic pace, it should be exciting with satisfying payoffs, like in Trauma Center: Under 
 the Knife. Not so with this piece of crap game. The box is very misleading, as it makes it sound 
 like another cute little farming game, where you grow plants and harvest them in a series of minigames. 
 And it starts out cute -- you get to pick your character out of an adorable roster of kids, each 
 with their own personality. But that's where the cuteness ends. You're thrown into this chaotic 
 level with this grid of soil squares and you have to select actions from the scrolling icons on 
 the right, like seeds for planting, watercans, fertilizer, etc. Dang it, even that makes it sound 
 more grand than it actually is. You get like 2 minutes per level to get crops to grow on your squares 
 while competing against three other computer opponents who constantly steal your squares and always 
 manage to grab up all the action icons you happen to need, hence scoring 4 times more points than 
 you. At one point, a minute and half went by without a single watercan icon appearing, but yet 
 amazingly my opponents' crops weren't fazed a bit. When the level ends, you're like 'What the hell 
 just happened?' It's a terrible mess of a game, and I can't figure out how a game this lousy made 
 it's way onto the shelves of videogame stores. Don't the videogame designers actually play the 
 games before shipping them off to Walmart to be sold to unsuspecting customers? I don't know. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sjesseph
Rating: 2
Date: Dec 21, 2007 9:00 pm PT
Review:  This was a rotten Crop! I bought this game because I am a huge fan of all the other Harvest moon 
 games even the ones with bad graphics for the Game SP. However.... This game was just a rotten crop 
 and need to be thrown away. I was so sorry to see what a stinker this game was because I was so 
 excited to see another Harvest Moon game. This one is a Puzzel game where you try to grow and harvest 
 your crops faster then other players or computer playes. It was hard and boring! The graphics were 
 bad and the sound was worse and the game play was just not there at all! To be honest I am amazed 
 that Harvest Moon would even think about putting there name on such a crappy game! Mind you this 
 is a puzzle game and I knew that when I bought it because I like puzzle games from time to time 
 but in the end the only thing that puzzled me was why anyone would make this game at all! Do not 
 be fooled By the Harvest Moon Name THIS GAME WAS THE WORST! DO NOT BUY! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: StillWingless
Rating: 3
Date: Nov 27, 2007 1:26 pm PT
Review:  It feels like there could have been more of a game to Puzzle de Harvest Moon, but someone forgot 
 to include it. The box looks cute, professing of wonderful Harvest-Moon-related fun to be had. 
 We enjoy raising our farms, right? A fast-paced, versus-style, puzzle game based around it would 
 be good, right?
  
  Yeah, no.
  
  The menu is simple. Choose the tutorial to get filled-in on everything that you need to do to win. 
 Jump into a game... and do nothing that was mentioned in the tutorial.
  
  Correction: you CAN do everything mentioned in the tutorial. You might get bored for the first 
 minute or so while there aren't any crops to harvest on the board. However, once things start growing, 
 the game doesn't care if the crop was your own or someone else's (with the exception of when certain 
 animal power-ups are used) , as long as you're ripping them out of the ground. So go ahead, scribble 
 away at whatever crops you like. As long as you reap what everyone else sows, you'll win every 
 time.
  
  The concept could have been really good. A story mode would have been perfect for this game, and 
 was honestly expected when I picked it up. Each character could have had a specialty or bonus. 
 It wouldn't have taken long to bring the graphics from GBA-pleasant to DS-crisp. The sound wasn't 
 even bad. But there needed to be something to tie it all together.
  
  Sad that something that looked like it could be so addictive would end up being so bland. There 
 was a lot of potential in this game; sadly, it was all wasted. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
