-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: QuickSpot
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/ds/puzzle/quickspot/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 Multiplayer gameplay is fairly fun.
 sharp-looking puzzle images.
 a few interesting uses of the touch screen and microphone.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 You'll be pretty much done with the game in just a few hours.
 could have used more image variety.
 brain-training aspect is lame.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Mar 15, 2007
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 6.3
Critic Score: 6.9, 18 Review (s)
User Score: 6.9, 55 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Namco Bandai Games America
Genre: Puzzle
Date: Mar 19, 2007
ESRB: Everyone 10+

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
QuickSpot has about as much lasting value as you'd expect from a game that is exclusively about 
 spotting differences between two pictures, which is to say, not much. 

  How much fun can you have looking at two pictures and spotting the subtle differences between them? 
 You'd best hope the answer to that question is "a whole heck of a bunch" if you plan to invest 
 in Namco Bandai's QuickSpot for the DS. It's just about the simplest premise in the world, revolving 
 exclusively around variations on the aforementioned descriptor. Sometimes the images animate, sometimes 
 they're upside down, and sometimes there are multiple differences between the same two images, 
 but the underlying concept remains the same all throughout. At least QuickSpot won't cost you much, 
 and it does have some reasonably solid multiplayer. But once you've played for a couple of hours 
 and blasted through the bulk of the game's available images, you'll have had your fill.  

          If you can't spot the difference in this picture, consult your local optometrist.     

 
  The primary single-player mode in QuickSpot is a rapid-play mode that puts you through a progression 
 of stages, each of which tasks you with spotting a set number of differences before time runs out. 
 These get progressively more obscure as time goes on, and at the final level for each stage, there's 
 a "boss" stage. This stage flips the script a bit and has you wiping away a bunch of crud with 
 the stylus so you can see what's on the second screen or blowing into the DS's microphone to float 
 a bunch of leaves off the second screen, all while still under a time limit. Other than these few 
 changes, you don't do much in QuickSpot apart from drawing circles around things. Even the menus 
 require you to draw circles around the start button or other various options to continue. In gameplay, 
 you simply spot the difference between the two presented images and draw a circle around it. That's 
 pretty much it.  

  You can blow through the first set of stages in about an hour, though there are some new stages 
 and challenges that unlock as you progress. However, within that first hour, you'll have seen practically 
 every image the game has to offer. Granted, many images have several available differences that 
 alternate depending on the stage and relative difficulty level, but after a while you will start 
 seeing a lot of repeats. The added challenges, such as the animated images, add some value to the 
 mode, but the fun wears thin relatively quickly. The only other motivation to continue playing 
 through the mode is a weak brain-training angle that judges you in a few specific categories, such 
 as concentration and judgment. The trouble is that it's never clear exactly how you're being judged 
 in a lot of these categories. There are times when you might screw up royally but only lose a bit, 
 and then there are times when you think you did really well, but you'll see decreases in certain 
 categories and increases in others. The mode seems kind of tacked on because it's not very well 
 spelled out.  

  Beyond that mode, there's a concentration mode that nixes the time limit and tasks you with spotting 
 10 differences in a single set of images; a fortune mode that tells you your fortune in money, 
 health, romance and work, based solely on which individual differences you spot in the images it 
 presents you; and a multiplayer mode that's both multicard and download play. The multiplayer modes 
 are probably the best thing QuickSpot has going for it. Time bomb is a hot-potato-esque mode where 
 up to eight people can play on a single DS. You simply pass the DS around to the next player once 
 you've solved the current puzzle, and the one left holding the DS when the bomb explodes loses. 
 Scramble mode is a multi-DS mode that has you and up to three others competing at the same puzzles. 
 The one who circles the fastest is the winner, but those on the losing end can eventually build 
 up a meter that gives them access to some unique power-ups, which can turn an opponent's screen 
 into a negative view or obscure an opponent's screen by sending crazy frogs across the screen. 
 The novelty of this mode wears thin after a while, but it's inherently more fun to play these puzzles 
 with others along for the ride.  

          Nice to see the King of all Cosmos is still getting work.     

  At least QuickSpot 
 does a solid job of presenting itself. A good chunk of the puzzle images are culled from various 
 Namco Bandai brands, so you'll see Pac-Man, Katamari Damacy, and other, similarly familiar games 
 pop up now and again. The rest are mostly a peculiar variety of anime drawings and sketches, as 
 well as a few random claymation shots and other strange pieces of artistry. Even though there's 
 very little animation and you are basically staring at still frame shots over and over again, the 
 game presents a good look. All the images are also pretty crisp and colorful. The audio doesn't 
 consist of more than a bunch of hypercheery MIDI tunes that are either going to be catchy or painful, 
 depending on your disposition.  

  At $20, QuickSpot isn't a terrible investment for those in need of some kind of new, simplistic 
 distraction to go with their DSs. Just be aware going in that the novelty of the concept and the 
 game's execution of it won't last beyond a few reasonably enjoyable hours.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (4 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: sjesseph
Rating: 5
Date: Dec 21, 2007 10:33 pm PT
Review:  I bought this game because I thought it looked kind of fun and I got it home and it was fun for 
 about day. You look at two pictures that look a like but you have to find the differance in the 
 pictures and circle it as fast as you can because you only get so much time to do it. It was fun 
 for the first day but that is all this game is about. Now I do not know about you but I like games 
 that have more too them because I can not play a game for very long if it is always the same thing 
 over and over and over and over and over .... I think you get the point. One the up side the graphics 
 are pretty good and so is the sould and they game play is good and good and good everytime you 
 do the same thing over and over and .... Sorry! It woud be a good game for kids and a good game 
 to pass the time while you are waiting in the doctors office or something like that. My kids like 
 it but then again the younger kids like just about any game???? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: clawt
Rating: 3.8
Date: May 3, 2007 1:40 pm PT
Review:  Do you remember the 'Highlights for children' Magazines your mom used to get you? on the last page 
 there was a game that you had to find what was different between the two pictures. This is what 
 this is, over and over again.
  Its great for kids, but for teens and adults there are much better options for you.
  Your performance 
 is displayed on fancy spider chart, that seems to analyze your progress. Occasionally you get to 
 blow leaves or rub sand of the bottom picture, but its still looking at the top screen, then looking 
 at the bottom screen and circling the difference. My girlfirend got this game the same time time 
 I got Pokemon Mystery Dungeon... She ended up taking over the Pokemon game for me :) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ayumichan
Rating: 8.1
Date: Apr 10, 2007 11:56 am PT
Review:  I got this game today, and played a little bit of it. First impressions... My first impressions 
 were that of the game is alot of fun to play. You have to spot differences in pictures before the 
 round is over, and it tells you about your brain activity afterwards. There is another mode where 
 you can take your time and really take a look at the picture and it times you. I love this game 
 because there are so many different references to other Namco and Bandai games, like Katamari Damacy 
 in it and Kolona. The music is great and some is very silly, but the music fits in with the pictures, 
 very fun and very silly. This game will get your thinking cap on, so you might want to tighten 
 yours before you start playing. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SadPSPAddict
Rating: 8
Date: Apr 10, 2007 6:17 am PT
Review:  Well where to start... what a lot of fun. A fairly lengthy game with a few interesting variations 
 on the old spot the difference routine. As a video game I'd say the idea was excellent and well 
 presented. A career type mode is the main focus where progressively more difficult levels are presented, 
 for example solving 10 problems within a time llimit to gain points. Each problem is to find one 
 difference between the presented images. The quicker and more accuratly you spot the difference 
 the more points you get. Bronze, Silver and Gold medals are awarded if you score enough points 
 and more levels are unlocked. The other mode is the find all the differences for a picture, typically 
 10 and boy are some of them frustrating (or is it me?) .
  There is a multiplayer option as well and that has been a source of somne amusement in my household 
 (imagine the embarrasment of being beaten by a child whose age is still in single figures - well 
 happens to me a lot!!)
  All in all something a bit different that uses the touch screen nicely and is what the DS should 
 be all about. Forget mainstream , multi platform games lets see some more like this on the good 
 old DS!
  And as a cut price release this has to be considered a good purchase! 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
