-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Race Driver: Create & Race
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/ds/driving/racedrivercreaterace/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 Loads of content.
 Strong multiplayer component.
 Racing is fast and fun.
 Solid frame rate.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 AI can be obnoxious.
 Grainy tracks make it tough to see turns.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Oct 16, 2007
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 7.5
Critic Score: 7.8, 16 Review (s)
User Score: 7.8, 81 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Codemasters
Developer: Firebrand Games
Genre: Driving
Date: Oct 2, 2007
ESRB: Everyone

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Race Driver pushes the DS hardware to its limits, and the result is a deep and enjoyable racing 
 game. 

  Racing games on the Nintendo DS have been hit-and-miss. Most of them haven't been much to get excited 
 about, but the handheld has seen its share of good racers. Thanks to Codemasters' Race Driver: 
 Create &amp; Race, you can add another one to the "good" category. The game is chock-full of content, 
 and most importantly, it's fun.  

           Race Driver lets you create your own tracks in just a matter of minutes.      

  Race 
 Driver has a large number of game modes, but you'll probably want to start in the world tour. Not 
 only does world tour ease you into the game with a series of races, but you'll also earn credits 
 to unlock new content. The championship circuits here are similar to many other racing games and 
 are broken down by car type. The game features a large number of vehicles from manufacturers such 
 as Nissan, Audi, and Honda. You participate in a series of races and earn points based on where 
 you finished. In the early races, your goal is simply finish near the top. If you do so, you'll 
 unlock another series of races, either on the same tier or the tier above your current category. 
 If you win the series, you'll earn credits that can be used to unlock a variety of items.  

  Up to this point, Race Driver may sound like a simulation, but once you hit the track you'll 
 find it's arcadelike. The cars (and even big rigs) accelerate quickly, can handle tight turns with 
 ease, and are very responsive. That's not to say that each vehicle feels the same. You can easily 
 tell the difference between a peppy Japanese compact and a big American muscle car with rear-wheel 
 drive. The game does a nice job of conveying a strong sense of speed thanks to its fast and consistent 
 frame rate -- it's amazing to see a DS racing game move so smoothly. In fact, sometimes it feels 
 a bit too fast; the somewhat grainy visuals make it difficult to see approaching turns. You can 
 refer to a map on the bottom screen, but trying to alternate between two screens while dealing 
 with seven other drivers isn't easy.  

  Your opposition does not do you any favors when taking turns in a pack or pretty much any other 
 time. The artificial intelligence is forgiving for the first few series, but it quickly cranks 
 things up a notch and becomes totally unwilling to share the road. AI-controlled cars take intelligent 
 lines around the track, which is good, but they also could care less if you're occupying the space 
 they want to be in. This means that if you're in a tight pack, you're going to get knocked around 
 like crazy. Not only does this make it difficult to drive, but it also damages your car. There 
 are damage indicators for your gears, steering, suspension, engine, and tires on the bottom screen. 
 If you sustain enough damage, then your car will start to drive poorly and you'll have to take 
 a pit stop. Reckless driving can also be penalized and is indicated by a series of flags. Damage 
 and penalties are all well and good, but you're the only one who ever seems to have to deal with 
 the consequences of swapping paint, so by the end of a race you're fighting to keep your car on 
 the track and the AI cars are zooming merrily around, seemingly just fine. They never seem to get 
 in trouble for slamming into you -- you always seem to take the blame.  

  Even with these issues, the racing is fun and intense. There are 24 licensed vehicles and 32 tracks 
 on which to race, so you won't be getting bored anytime soon. Once you do master the world tour, 
 you can head to the pro tour, which is even more difficult because it forces you to drive with 
 a manual transmission. There's also a simulation option where you can participate in a free race 
 or a time trial. Additionally, you can take part in a number of challenges to improve your skills. 
 Here you'll be put through events that test your ability to brake, steer, follow a racing line, 
 maneuver through cones, and pass other cars.  

  If you need a break from the rigors of racing, you can get creative by customizing your car or 
 creating your own racetracks. The car-customization options aren't particularly deep, but you can 
 change your ride's colors and apply a number of decals to the hood, roof, and doors. The track 
 editor lets you easily drag and drop pieces of track onto a grid to create your own racing paradise. 
 It's easy to use thanks to the touch-screen capabilities of the DS, and you can finish a basic 
 course in just a matter of minutes.  

  But wait, there's more. Race Driver features an impressive multiplayer component. Even with a single 
 cartridge, you can play local multiplayer with up to four players and choose from a large number 
 of courses and vehicles. There are even AI-controlled drivers on the course. The game features 
 an online component as well, but we were never able to find anyone to race against to try it out. 
 Assuming that you can find someone to race, there are a wide number of options to choose from, 
 and you can even bring your created tracks online.  

           Even the big rigs can zoom around the track.      

  It's obvious that the developer's 
 focus was on getting Race Driver to run well, not on making it look pretty. As mentioned earlier, 
 the frame rate is fast and ultrasmooth, even with the occasional smoke and dirt effect onscreen. 
 The car models look nice and are recognizable, but the damage modeling is pitiful. You'll see a 
 few polygons fly off your ride and that's about it. The biggest visual problem is the grainy tracks. 
 It's really difficult to see what's ahead of you, so unless you know a course well, you'll probably 
 miss a few turns or get to know a few walls up close and personal. The game has an instant replay 
 that runs after a race, but it's not very flattering -- you'll see cars that appear and disappear, 
 and vehicles that are only half rendered. Nevertheless, even a partially broken replay is better 
 than the game's audio. The cars don't sound like cars, there aren't any other effects other than 
 the occasional tire squeal, and there's no music while you race.  

  As long as you don't expect a shrunken-down console-racing simulation, you'll find a lot to like 
 in Race Driver: Create &amp; Race. It's obvious that a lot of care went into the game; it's not 
 some quick and dirty way to cash in on an established franchise. There's no shortage of ways to 
 stay occupied and, most importantly, the racing is exciting and fun.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (14 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: NardBasket
Rating: 6.5
Date: Dec 23, 2008 11:56 am PT
Review:  Race Driver: Create and Race has some neat features, but some basic mechanics make the game very 
 frustrating not only at first, but every time you come back after a while to play it again. 
  I'll start with the bad: At the beginning of every "World Tour" championship, you start out in 
 the rear of the pack, which is to be expected. This presents the first hurdle in enjoying this 
 game: Vehicle damage is unrealistic, and extremely easy to acquire, so much so that it is unfairly 
 forced onto you. Simply tapping or rubbing lightly on cars damages you constantly (accompanied 
 by a sound of a door slamming) and the part of your car that is damaged just doesn't make sense- 
 for instance, as you're turning a corner and an opponent turns a bit sharper than you do and lightly 
 bumps into the side of your car, your transmission will take damage. Tap the car ahead of you that 
 you're trying to pass? Your motor takes severe damage, even if you're in a rear or mid-engined 
 vehicle. 
  The key to winning in this game is to fight your way to the front of the pack without having your 
 car rendered undriveable, and stay in first while the pack bumps into each and keep themselves 
 behind. The other factor that works against you is the camera angle, because turns come up on you 
 very quickly at 140mph, so you've constantly got to be watching the other screen for when you're 
 getting close to a turn. This detracts from overall immersion, as you can imagine. One bad turn 
 can not only put you in last place quickly, but also total your car.
  One thing i love about GT style games, is that in most of them you get to purchase and own different 
 vehicles, and buy parts for them to improve their performance. That is not the case here. RD: C&R 
 lets you do no such thing, instead, every set of races you start is focused around 2 or three different 
 cars, but only one is ever actually available for you to drive. 
  There is a good thing about this game though- the Track Editor. It's pretty detailed and easy to 
 customize, and you've got a lot of track peices to work with. But then when you go to race on your 
 custom track- you don't get to choose the car you use! 
  Overall, its the little annoyances like that, crappy collision damaging, and lack of seeing distances 
 that hold this back from being way cooler. Do yourself a favor and pass this up. I'd suggest checking 
 out it's bigger brother, Grid.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Jamez634
Rating: 6.5
Date: Jul 26, 2008 2:03 am PT
Review:  V8 Supercars 3: Create and Race is just a racing DS game with some some pretty cool features. To 
 give you a good idea of the game, I'll start with the graphics. I'm rather fond of V8 Supercars 
 3's graphics because they stand out on a DS. I bet someone would even mistake it for a PSP (if 
 it didn't have two screens!) . The cars look great and the little racing movies are fun to watch! 
 Though, I bet someone watching you play it would enjoy it more than you playing it. It's fun to 
 someone watching you because you can easily smash into cars and obstacles and destroy your car 
 (though it never is totally destroyed) but is extremely frustrating to the player. Some corners 
 are tight and sharp that make it almost impossible to drive on, forcing you to drift off the track 
 into the dirt. Goodbye gold trophy.
  Then there's the camera view. There are only 3 of them. One on the bonnet, one below the car and 
 one facing the back of the car. None of these camera views are really that good. The one facing 
 the back of the car is really too close to it which makes it even harder to turn. Just none of 
 them work as good as you'd hope.
  Overall, V8 Supercars 3: Create and Race isn't a bad platformer because there are HEAPS of tracks 
 to race on, but I've seen better racing games for the DS.
  
  GAMEPLAY -----------------5
  GRAPHICS -----------------9
  SOUND ---------------------6
  OVERALL -----------------6.5
  
 
  Check out my blog for other review on other great (and not so great!) DS games! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Excelsior82
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jul 14, 2008 6:08 am PT
Review:  Addicted to the driving simulation, I suddenly wanted a good game from the genre to play on wy 
 new DS...
  
  But which game could give me the real sensations from sport driving ?
  Race driver, Create & Race almost fill the contract.
  
  I have to say that the game isn't perfect 
 but still, maybe the better driving game we could do for the small DS which is more nimble when 
 you have to use the stylus.
  Thus, the game is really immersive. You have to stay concentrated at every moment to stay on the 
 road and to take curves correctly.
  
  It's even a bit hard to see when the curves happen, but thanks to the second screen, the map indicates 
 you exactly where you are.
  
  Second thing, the AI is a real pain-in-the-ass. Other cars keep on their way whatever happens, 
 no matter what you do.
  
  In addition, in the normal championship you only race 2 laps in every race, which don't let the 
 place for any fault.
  
  
  Except these little disadvantages, the game is a good simulation and would be better on a larger 
 screen, which would be less tiring.
  
  Whatever, it's a good game for purists but on a portable console. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Iain-Kinloch
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jul 1, 2008 6:00 am PT
Review:  Race Driver Create and Race is a great racing game. Even though it has one or two little flaws, 
 this is a must buy for any racing fan. Race Driver on the DS is pretty much Toca Race Driver on 
 the PS2, squeezed onto the DS. It has lots of modes that offer an almost ridiculous amount of things 
 to do. 
  
  The first mode is World Tour. It's a big, long series of championships that you race through to 
 win points that can then be used to unlock bonus stuff (more on that later) . 
  When you have completed the World Tour about 9-10 hours later, you can have a go at the Pro Tour. 
 Pro Tour is essentially the same as World Tour, but the AI is better, the damage is more severe 
 and you are forced to use a manual gearbox.
  
  After that, we have Simulation. This mode allows you to have normal races against the computer, 
 set your best lap times and try your hand at many challenges that involve driving through rings, 
 reaching a top speed, overtaking as many cars as you can as well as several others.
  
  Also, you can play some Multiplayer too. With just one copy of the game, four of you can race each 
 other and the computer with a limited number of tracks and cars. If everyone has a copy of the 
 game, you can all race using any car or track in the game. There is also an online mode so you 
 can show the world your amazing skills. There is one problem though. This game doesn't appear to 
 be very popular and so there aren't many people online. I have managed to get a few races going 
 without any real lag, it just takes a lot of patience.
  
  Speaking of online. This game also has online rankings for all the tracks in the game. The lists 
 show the top ten times for the track and allows you to download any ghost you like so you can try 
 and beat it. Race Driver also keeps track of EVERYTHING you do in the game. It knows and can tell 
 you who you've raced in multiplayer, how many races you have won, what your favourite car and track 
 is, how much time you've spent in each different mode etc. It even knows how much distance you've 
 covered whilst racing.
  
  Graphically, the game is quite good. It runs very smoothly and all the cars (and trucks!) look 
 very real. The only downside is, as GameSpot pointed out, everything is quite grainy, which makes 
 taking some of the corners a bit trickier than they should be. Also, if you look for it, you can 
 see buildings and pieces of scenery pop in to view all of a sudden. It's nothing to worry about 
 when your racing, it's just noticeable is all.
  
  The only real problem is the sound. When you're in the menus there is an OK tune that never really 
 gets annoying. It all falls apart when you're racing though. Whilst on the track there is no music, 
 just a few rubbish "car" noises. Y'know, a few tyre squeals, a general brum brum noise and that's 
 about it.
  
  Does that matter? Not really. Just mute the sound, win the race, and take your winnings to the 
 rewards shop. From here, you can buy bonus challenges, bonus championships, cheat codes, decals 
 that you can use to customize cars for multiplayer and most importantly, track designer items. 
 Yep, the word "create" is in the title for a reason. Race Driver on the DS has one of, if not the 
 best level/track/park creator I've ever seen. You choose a starting point. From there you can select 
 other pieces to put together in a scalextric sort of way. Or if you're feeling lazy, you can just 
 draw out a basic circuit and then tweak it later. And thanks to the stylus, it's quick and easy 
 to create masterpieces in only a few minutes. And with, all sorts of different straights, corners 
 and scenery items to choose from, you are almost guaranteed never to see the same track twice. 
 Also, it's possible to send created tracks to other people and download other's creations yourself 
 so you can try creating and sending completely evil tracks that will torment your friends. 
  
  All in all Race Driver Create and Race is a brilliant racing game for the DS. It may not be 
 the prettiest, and definitely not the best sounding game in the world, but the fun gameplay and 
 almost insane amount of content is sure to playing for a long, long time.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: klidron02
Rating: 8
Date: Jun 7, 2008 2:34 pm PT
Review:  Race Driver: Create and Race is a wonderful racing game, almost as if it were a realistic Mario 
 Kart with no drivers. In this great game, you got two main modes; World Tour and Simulation. In 
 World Tour, you try to become the champion by defeating every tier. Each tier has certain cups, 
 such as Tier 1 has the Autoport Clio Cup and Japanese Works Cup. Each cup has certain cars you 
 are restricted to, just as most racing games do. After you defeat each Tier, you unlock the next 
 Tier and from there it's pretty self explanatory. As soon as you win each cup, as well, you'll 
 unlock that in Simulation mode. As soon as you complete all the World Series races, you'll unlock 
 Pro Tour, which is World Series, only a lot harder. The multi-player on this game is great, too, 
 just not to many have this game so it's hard to find a race over the internet. But if you get past 
 that and somehow do find a game online, it's very fun. Now, onto some pros and cons about this 
 game. The game has great graphics, the second best I've seen on a DS game, plus it's got a pretty 
 big selection of cars, and while it does have some bugs, the bugs and glitches in the game are 
 very funny and easy to do, such as going through a wall. One last pro about this game is the fact 
 that the sound effects are amazing, especially for a DS game, the only other game with better sound 
 effects on the DS is Call of Duty 4: Modern Warfare. Now, some cons of the game are it does have 
 a few bugs, plus the music isn't the best, and there isn't any music playing at all during a race. 
 But besides that, there aren't any other cons to think of. So, do I recommend this game? Highly. 
 Any DS owner should go out and get a copy of this great game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: AjayRaz
Rating: 7.5
Date: Dec 6, 2007 4:28 pm PT
Review:  Well, yeah. I picked it up yeserday at best buy and i'm glued to it. 
  
  The good:
  -In depth single player mode
  -Tons of stuff to do and alot of unlockables 
  -Easy to use track 
 creator, tons of parts to mess around with.
  -You can take those tracks online
  -Amazing graphics 
  -Great multiplayer with pretty good options 
  -You get more for your money 
 
  
  The Bad:
  -Draw distance limit and low camera makes it hard to see what's in front of you
  -A. I. can get 
 rough at times
  -Online mode is empty of players 
  -Sounds could be a LITTLE better 
  -Damage system but damage dosen't appear on the car
  -----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
  Graphics: Amazing, detailed cars and tracks, good shadowing. Pushes the DS to the limit. 8/10
 
  
  Presentation: Menus CAN be confusing at times, but most of the time, they're easy to navigate through 
 and easy to use interface. 7/10
  
  Controls: Good contol, but it's a realstic game, so it's gonna take a while to get used to driving 
 through tough corners without wiping out. 7/10
  
  Sound: Decent sound from cars. Music is good but not memorable.7/10
  
  Gameplay: Top notch 
 game. Fun racing game with tons of cars to play around with. You unlock more parts to buy in the 
 rewards shop and you progess through story mode. Racing is fast, with a great Frame rate of 60fps 
 and most importent of all, it's fun as hell. Very addictive. The Track creator is simple, easy 
 to use and tons of parts to work with. It could of used a couple more cars, but it's still good. 
 9/10
  
  Multiplayer: I haven't tried Download or Multi card play, but I have tried online play, and it's 
 fantastic, lag free and still fast and fun. Although, there's hardly anyone online so either you're 
 gonna have to wait like 10 minutes or set up a Friend code match. Overall, great online play. 7/10
 
  
  Replay Value: ALOT to do.. I won't even bother talking about it...9/10
  
  Overall, I can see codemasters put ALOT of work into this game and it ended up being a fun, in-depth 
 racer that all DS owners can enjoy. I HIGHLY reccomend DS owners buy this game. It's fast, fun, 
 tons of replay value, great multiplayer options and just plain fun to pop in and play. 
  
  Tons of content, An in-dept single player mode and impressive multiplayer, Is this game worth owning? 
 Defentaly, perfect for ANY ds owner's collection. 
  
  Overall Score: 9.0/10. Great.
  
  Award for Best DS Racing game in 2007 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dreamdust
Rating: 8
Date: Nov 17, 2007 11:09 am PT
Review:  This is a very interesting racing game considering the typical lack of racing games on Nintendo 
 systems. It's not exactly Gran Turismo or Forza Motorsports but if that's what you are wanting 
 then your expectations are simply too high for what the Nintendo DS is capable of. This game is, 
 for obvious reasons, a track back to the PS1 or N64 era in terms of graphics and playability. It's 
 definitely a solid package that will satisfy your thirst for racing when away from home.
  
  The real strength of this game is its breadth of content. The track editor is an excellent addition 
 that gives the game that extra replay value. The track editor is actually very well done and I 
 was thoroughly impressed. Is it perfect? No, but you can make near anything you want and you can 
 even make the backgrounds the way you want it. One grip I have is that I haven't seen any banked 
 corners in the map editor. It could be that I just haven't unlocked them yet but being a NASCAR 
 buff I wouldn't mind creating some ovals of my own. It was nice to see Indianapolis, Nazareth, 
 and Dover in the game.
  
  To add to this there's Nintendo Wifi, plenty of races and championships to complete and an impressive 
 host of different types of automobiles to race with. The game even uses the Rumble Pak which hasn't 
 been used by even Nintendo lately (for example I was shocked to find that LOZ Phantom Hourglass 
 didn't use the Rumble Pak) .
  
  All this sounds great but we haven't even talked about the actual gameplay; the racing. It's in 
 the racing where the game because a little more mediocre. The graphics are good for a DS game in 
 full 3-D but there's some little issues here and there that detracts from the experience. One of 
 the first issues I always noticed was the CPU opponents bouncing off of each like pinballs. It's 
 also not uncommon for cars to strangely merge and then bounce apart. Further the CPU always seems 
 to brake later than you but pick up the throttle later leaving the corner. I can't fault this too 
 much because I go through the same thing in NASCAR 08 on the Xbox360. It's really annoying to get 
 your rump shoved going into every corner only to blast by the CPU coming off of the corner. Now, 
 some of this may be my own doing because this same thing happens when I play online with real people 
 but I don't get ran-over every corner. I am an early braker so maybe its more me than the CPU but 
 still. 
  
  An area that can be particularly frustrating is running up on a corner and never being able to 
 gauge how much you need to slow down until after you have raced the track several times. This isn't 
 all that bad but there can be a bit of a learning curve. Braking is hard to "feel" in this game 
 and can make it difficult to be conservative. However, when I popped in the Rumble Pak this changed 
 and I felt the game was much more enjoyable because the Rumble Pak gives you feedback when braking. 
 This is more a mental thing but it did help me quite a bit.
  
  Ultimately the cars drive in an arcade style pitched in a simulation universe. The cars are based 
 off of real vehicles, and the tracks are modeled after real tracks, but everything drives like 
 an arcade game and for a handheld that makes perfect sense. I couldn't imagine trying to tackle 
 cars on the DS the same way that you would have to tackle cars on Forza 2. You would never finish 
 a lap. I believe Codemasters made a good compromise and the end result is a racing game that, while 
 not perfect, is an enjoyable handheld experience to behold. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: av10
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 5, 2007 1:13 pm PT
Review:  If you like racing and you love your DS this is the game for you.
  With this game you get your moneys worth.
  The visuals are amazing and it definitely pushes the 
 DS to its limit as GS said.
  
  The gameplay is great also, you dont easily win, you actually have to work to win. The AI is just 
 incredible and you feel like you are actually racing, not like you are racing a stupid computer 
 (although you are but its not stupid) .
  
  The different types of cars is outstanding and each car handles differently, [like its supposed 
 to be] .
  
  The track designer is really good and creating your own tracks is lots of fun. The main championship 
 mode is great and the difficulty changes along when you move up from championship to championship. 
 For example the difficulty of the first one you play in, compared to the last ones changes so much 
 like its ,again, suppossed to be.
  
  The only bad thing about the game is the sound. It makes it really difficult to change gears because 
 the engine sound is bad, but changing gears isn't as bad as you would think, despite the sound 
 problem.
  
  All in all this game is a must have to all racing fans, racers, and anybody looking to buy a great 
 game for the DS. I highly recommend this game to anyone. If you own a DS you should own Race Driver: 
 Create &amp; Race. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Zero1981
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 3, 2007 7:31 am PT
Review:  Although the game doesn't have a cool opening movie with spectacular crashes, the game kicks off 
 very good and let's you begin in the dtm championship right away.
  the career option is good to learn all the different race classes and makes clear that every class 
 has different dynamics and feel.
  it is more arcade than on the consoles but it has the same feel and keeps in touch with real race 
 driving.
  the online option is great! although it is a hard time finding competitors, but that's where uploading 
 your best time trails come in play. you can upload your best time and compare with world rankings! 
 great feature and it makes you want to go a bit faster so you can reach number one.
  single card and multi-card options are both available and is good.
  the trackeditor is nice works 
 excellent.
  the sound could be better. it sounds a bit rough.
  all in all the best racegame on the ds and probably the best on any nintendo console. it is as 
 realistic as you want it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ston3henge
Rating: 8
Date: Oct 27, 2007 2:03 pm PT
Review:  Before you read this review, stop and think about what you consider a racing game... is racing 
 about drifting corners at 170mph? Is racing about collecting power-ups and blasting your opponents 
 off the track? Is racing about hitting the NO2 button while in second gear to get back up to speed 
 after crashing?
  
  Or is racing about gas &amp; brake, gearing and line, and trying not to cause any damage?
  
 
  If you answered Yes to anything but the last question, move along... this game is NOT for you. But 
 if, on the other hand, you like the idea of real-world physics, real-world driving rules, real-world 
 tracks (from ALL OVER the real world!) then get down and do the Happy Dance... your game has arrived! 
 Codemasters has been behind some of the best console racing titles of all time like Colin McRae 
 and the ToCA series, and now they've set their sights on handhelds with the issuance of Race Driver: 
 Create &amp; Race for the DS.
  
  If you've played ToCA , then you'll be right at home here down to the menu screen music... all 
 of the tracks are taken from real raceways around the globe and you'll spend most of your time 
 climbing through the different leagues in the Career Mode, which is a tiered system of races you 
 need to beat in order to unlock the series for Free Race or Time Trial. If you beat all of the 
 challenges a Pro Tour will open up, which requires use of Manual Transmition - More on this later.
 
  
  Opening tiers and other accomplishments give you points, which you use to unlock bonus championship 
 races as well as track parts to use in the track editor which you can then use to design your own 
 tracks... a brilliantly easy feature which easily extends the replay value of an already depthy 
 title.
  
  Even though there are no analog contrtols, the cars control handle well, giving you a great sense 
 of speed and weight... for those of you into Sim-style racing the lack of analog may seem a bit 
 daunting at first, but as with the other compromises in the game, once you get playing you hardly 
 even notice. There are three views: Chase, Bonnett (Hood) , or Bumper, all of them working exceedingly 
 well without the slightest dip in framerate. The amount of in-game tracks is staggering - thirty-two 
 tracks (not all of them available to all classes of car, mind you) spread across 24 types of car... 
 the only classes missing from the console brothers to this title are Go Carts and open wheel or 
 off-road racing... but there's all sorts of fendered racing, Super Trucks, and even a lil' NASCAR-style 
 stock cars in the Dodge Challenge!!! Sorry, personal favorite, and Indy looks and drives GREAT, 
 take it from someone who lives close to the real track and has seen it many times...
  
  The drawbacks? Well, there are a few if you're looking hard enough... some of the scenery is kind 
 of sparse on certain tracks making on-coming corners hard to judge, and the roadside distance indicators 
 are a touch inaccurate in the scale... also, opponent AI is a bit unforgiving when they're in the 
 racing line and they can thrash about a bit violently when jockeying for position at times... there 
 are no car tweaking menus to adjust anything, and there are no parts to upgrade, but aside from 
 those small grievances I have no complaints especially considering the platform this title is running 
 on. Qualifying can be toggled on or off and the game saves after each race so if you're getting 
 off the train your progress won't be totally lost in a championship... there are driving minigames 
 to test your skill and unlock stuff, and a rediculously feature-filled online that works really 
 well rounds out one of the best racers this system has ever seen.
  
  If you want to knock the competition into next week with a mushroom bomb stick to MarioKart , but 
 if you want a handheld cousin of Gran Turismo and ToCA , then look no farther 'cuz here it is!
 
  
  8 out of 10. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: wakkydude
Rating: 6.5
Date: Oct 12, 2007 8:29 am PT
Review:  INTRO
  The TOcA series has been a long way since the first game on the PS1, so you will expect a good 
 game, create and race is a DS version of this franchise where you can make tracks and race them 
 and with WI-FI this HAS to be good.
  DESIGN
  The game has a lot to offer for eye candy, pushing the ds's graphics capacity to almost the maximum 
 but with no graphical damage model that lets it down. The sound will MAKE YOU'RE EARS BLEED! Be 
 sure to turn it down. The track designer is a bit limited but it's good altogether.
  GAMEPLAY
  The gameplay takes a small backseat, firstly they made the game fast The DS is a fun 
 console so we make it faster FASTER YOU'RE Censored (sorry I had to say that!) Whenever you brake 
 you go WHAM into a wall, and again! The GAMEPLAY itself, that's a bit better. Once you get past 
 the slow ai and the close grids then you find the true
  shine in create and race
  DESIGN: 8.3/10
  GAMEPLAY 7.5/10
  OVERALL 79% 
::::::

::::::
UserName: wiggy-fuzz
Rating: 8
Date: Oct 1, 2007 12:09 am PT
Review:  the good:
  
  every car handles differently
  a realistic sense of speed
  cars look like cars and not square lumps
  multiplayer
  track editor
  stable frame rate
 
  many tracks from real life
  you don't hear the guy who used to lecture you on your driving like in race driver 2 and 3
  ds 
 v surround sound works great
  
  the bad:
  horrible textures on closeup on some cars
  simulation mode is a little short
  no open wheeled cars
  game is a little too forgiving
  
 cars still sound like lawnmowers
  
  the rest of this text is just there to fill up my 100 word limit, gamespot better review this right 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gamefan519
Rating: 9.5
Date: Sep 30, 2007 9:33 am PT
Review:  This game is the best race game in the ds it's basically like Gran Turismo on the ds . The game 
 has 5 game modes ( World tour , Pro tour , Simulation , Multiplayer and Track designer) . In World 
 Tour you race in tournaments . They give you a certain car to use in the race depending on the 
 type of race . OK I haven't unloked the Pro tour mode so I'm going to jump to simulation . IN simulation 
 the give you a mission for example: get to a top speed of 145mph . It's just like the liscence 
 mode on Gran Turismo except that they don't give you a liscence . OK now to multiplayer in multiplayer 
 you have single-card play , multi-card play and nintendo wi-fi connection you basucally select 
 a track and race race race . Now my favorite game mode track designer in track designer you basically 
 create a track . You choose from the starting line to the enviorment you want the track to be in 
 then you can test the track . Well that's preatty much it I hope you buy this game and enjoy it 
 as much as I am . Until my next review good-bye . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bridej
Rating: 9.5
Date: Sep 29, 2007 7:25 am PT
Review:  This game mix all the ToCA Race Driver formula, in an arcade experience. I could say that this 
 is the best game in the DS, with no complex. The multiplayer is one of the best that i've seen 
 on the DS, with and incredible replay value. The only part in the game that isn't very good is 
 the sound, but it doesn't matter when we have a game like this in our hands
  
  -Gameplay: 10
  -Graphics: 9
  -Sound: 7,5
  -Value: 10
  -Tilt: 10
  
  Finally i can say 
 that, if you want racing games, just buy it, your money will worth. I hope the second part announced 
 on the FireBrand Games webpage, will be more intense, and please, with formulas!!! 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
