-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Rainbow Islands Revolution
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/ds/action/rainbowislandds/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 Includes all 40 levels from the original arcade game.
 touch-screen controls make this old-school classic seem somewhat fresh.
 bosses have new attack patterns and require new strategies.
 never a dull moment.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 Play mechanics are a bit too old school.
 the graphics and audio are too simplistic.
 a few more levels would have been nice.
 some diehards will cry foul that a classic mode wasn't included.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Oct 11, 2006
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 6.2
Critic Score: 5.3, 17 Review (s)
User Score: 5.7, 57 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Codemasters
Developer: Taito Corporation
Genre: 2D Platformer
Date: Oct 3, 2006
ESRB: Everyone

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Rainbow Islands Revolution is a classic arcade game reworked to use the touch screen almost exclusively. 
 

  Rainbow Islands Revolution for the Nintendo DS is basically the same Rainbow Islands that has appeared 
 on countless consoles during the past 20 years, except that the controls and gameplay have been 
 reworked to take advantage of the handheld's touch screen. What used to be a standard 2D platformer, 
 with jump and attack buttons, has been transformed into something entirely new that uses the touch 
 screen almost exclusively. The graphics, audio, and overall gameplay still come across as decidedly 
 old school, but this touch-centric platformer does at least manage to revive a classic in a way 
 that some people should find interesting.  

          Rainbow Islands Revolution is the classic arcade game remade with touch-screen controls. 
     

  Like most platform games, the goal in Rainbow Islands Revolution is to guide the main character 
 to the furthest reaches of the screen while dodging and attacking enemies. Generally speaking, 
 the furthest reaches of the screen are up, up, up. In the original game, you used a joystick to 
 move the character around and pressed buttons in order to make him jump or unfurl a rainbow. Rainbows 
 would knock out enemies on contact and could be used as steps to reach lofty platforms. In this 
 Nintendo DS remake, all movements and actions are controlled using the stylus and touch screen. 
 You drag your character, now stuck inside a bubble, using the stylus. There's no need to jump anymore 
 because the bubble can float, but you still need to watch out for any enemies or spikes that may 
 peck away at your character's health. Instead of pushing a button to cast rainbows directly in 
 front of your character, you can now use the stylus to draw them anywhere on the screen. There 
 are even special shapes that can be drawn to capture or vacuum up enemies.  

  The "boy in the bubble" motif doesn't really change the fact that all you're ever doing is avoiding 
 enemies, grabbing power-ups, and pressing to the goal line, but it does make the game seem livelier 
 than a typical old-school platformer. Between pulling the bubble through spiky tunnels and slashing 
 rainbows across whatever enemies and power-ups appear, the stylus is always being put to use. Those 
 power-ups mainly refill your rainbow meter and contribute to your score, although there are a couple 
 of power-ups that can blast away all of the enemies on both screens. Some aspects of the game had 
 to be tweaked to account for the new input method and the hero's transformation into a floating 
 bubble boy, but these changes generally tend to work to the game's benefit. The time limits are 
 longer, for example, and the bubble can now absorb multiple hits before popping. One especially 
 sweet change is that all of the bosses at the end of each world have new attack patterns and require 
 new strategies to beat. There are times when the touch screen doesn't respond fast enough, or it 
 will mistake your attempt to drag the bubble as an attempt to draw a rainbow, but these instances 
 are uncommon and rarely hazardous, thanks to all of the life points you'll usually have in reserve. 

  If there's one prevailing criticism, it's that this remake wasn't remade enough. Apart from showing 
 an extra portion of the level on the upper screen while you maneuver around on the lower screen, 
 the graphics haven't changed much since the original arcade game. The backdrops and characters 
 are colorful and flaunt some shading here and there, but nothing beyond what was common in arcades 
 back in the late 1980s. Thankfully, the scenery isn't garish. Some of the environments are downright 
 cute, particularly those patterned after a toy land or a haunted graveyard. The music and sound 
 effects are similarly cute and catchy, although they, too, come across as simplistic compared to 
 what we've become accustomed to within the past five years or so.  

          The only new features are score attack and multiplayer modes.     

  A few more levels, 
 or at least some new ones, would have been nice. The DS game has all of the same levels as the 
 original arcade game. There are 40 in all, split into 10 worlds. That seemed like a lot back in 
 the day, but most players will be able to blow through them in a day or two, thanks to the extra 
 life points and continues provided by this version of the game. There's some replay involved in 
 gathering up remaining crystals to see the best ending, but even that won't take dedicated players 
 more than a few hours. Of course, you could argue that the game doesn't overstay its welcome either. 
 The only new additions in terms of features are the score attack and multiplayer modes, which are 
 similar to one another. In the score attack mode, you try to get the highest score possible in 
 any of 10 different levels. In the multiplayer mode, as many as four players can compete to see 
 who can amass the highest score in any of 10 different levels. You can't interact with the other 
 players in a multiplayer game, but you can send enemies to your friends' screens by clearing them 
 from yours. These modes are OK for what they are, although it is a shame that such a simple multiplayer 
 mode requires each player to have a copy of the game.  

  For various reasons, Rainbow Islands Revolution falls just short of the mass-appeal plateau that 
 other touch-centric games, like Kirby: Canvas Curse and Mario vs. Donkey Kong 2, inhabit. The changes 
 that were made to revamp the classic game for the touch screen help freshen it up somewhat, but 
 this is still a very old game, and more should have been done to justify its existence as a full-priced 
 release in the Nintendo DS library.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (3 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: loopy_101
Rating: 5
Date: Jun 7, 2008 5:59 am PT
Review:  Remember Rainbow Islands? It was the sequel to the cutesy platformer Bubble Bobble. What was significant 
 about Rainbow Islands is that it took Bub and Bob of Bubble Bobble fame and transformed them from 
 dinosaurs to humans, so we finally got to see what they looked like. Although even without this, 
 Rainbow Islands was a good game. The objective of the game was simple, get to the top of the level, 
 but the addictive nature of the game kept us playing to the very end, despite how hard the game 
 got. Infact, Rainbow Islands took pride in having great graphics for it's time, nice music, fantastic 
 gameplay and a worthy lifespan. Overall it is something that we should all play, whether we're 
 hardcore or casual gamers.
  
  This review however isn't about Rainbow Islands, it's actually about it's terrible remake made 
 for the DS back in April 2006. This game, would ultimately change the delightful smiles of Bub 
 and Bob to the demented grin of the devil, it's just pure terror in a cartridge. So much is wrong 
 with Rainbow Islands Revolution and so little is right it's madness that the developers never took 
 any other approaches to the game when they came up against theses problems.
  
  Now the first thing you'll notice as you start the game up is simply how different it is to it's 
 original version and in a bad way too. For starters, the graphics look far below the expected standards 
 of the DS, it's hard not to say that this looks more like a Gameboy Advance game than DS game, 
 even with the touch and dual screen additions. The graphical style also looks very poor, especially 
 since we had such beautiful cartoon visuals in both Bubble Bobble Revolution and Bust-A-Move DS. 
 And lastly, the game runs exceedingly slow in comparison to those games which is clearly unacceptable 
 on DS or perhaps even Gameboy Advance.
  
  The sound has also been changed in the remake, but again, not for the better. The famous theme 
 music has been altered so much it is almost unrecognisable, but it does make a change because of 
 the higher quality. It also seems the developers were nice enough to include different music for 
 each stage although it only seems to be a variation of the, eventually annoying, theme tune.
  
  Although with the graphics and sound out of the way, let's talk about the biggest disappointment, 
 gameplay. Rainbow Islands Revolution tries too hard to different, it shows. The game takes uses 
 of the DS' touch screen and dual screen capabilities but it uses them poorly. It's also disappointing 
 because it plays nothing like the original Rainbow Island because of these features, leaving fans 
 bitterly disappointed by the change. So what has been changed?
  
  Well the stylus is now used to control the character in a floating bubble, very unlike the original 
 game. Also rainbows are created using the touch screen and simply slashing it across the screen, 
 which is not a bad idea. However combining both ideas doesn't work and it shows. There are moments 
 in the game where you will simply have to stop to either shoot a rainbow, both can't be done in 
 conjunction which was the idea with the original game. It clearly doesn't work with this game either.
 
  
  Why couldn't the developers given multiple control schemes? Or better yet, why was the character 
 in bubble featured in the first place? Taito could've done a lot more with this DS version in every 
 way, not just the gameplay but it's unacceptable that there are no options in the game at all, 
 so you have to use the control scheme that's available. It's sad Taito didn't take time with this 
 game either because there are clear signs that the developers lack knowledge of how to use the 
 DS in the controls also. The control feels very sloppy and the level design that accompanies this, 
 is just as foul
  
  The game is also quite long, but there is little point playing it, because the game will dull you 
 long before then anyway. As for value though, it is nowhere near worth the RRP and you're much 
 better off playing the original game that is likely to cost over 50% cheaper.
  
  Overall, it's best that you avoid this "Revolution". Rainbow Islands fans themselves will find 
 it hard not to be disappointed by the problems they'll face with this game. If you're new to the 
 franchise however, try finding the Taito Legends Compilation that can be found on PS2, Xbox or 
 PC, because trust me, there is much better value that way! ;) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sensei_Pong
Rating: 4
Date: Oct 25, 2007 8:17 am PT
Review:  The classic sequel to Bubble Bobble, Rainbow Islands. Ingenious with the fact that it carried the 
 story further, but drastically changed game feel with awesome success. I've always been a fan of 
 the old retro games, and Taito's arcade productions will always reign as some of the best.
  
  When I found Rainbow Islands Revolution in the used game area for only nine bucks, I nearly 
 creamed myself recalling the addictive gameplay of the original before it. I had bought Taito Legends 
 and was first introduced to Rainbow Islands when I was four through a very old arcade machine. 
 Excitement bolted through my nerves as I anxiously awaited to shove that little card into my DS. 
 What did they add? New Power-Ups? New Bosses? New Levels?
  
  I've never been truly disappointed in any game I've ever purchased. When I found E. T. at Goodwill, 
 I knew what was coming. When I went to my friend's house and dug up Pac Man 2 for the SNES, I laughed 
 wildly to see how horrible it really was. But with Rainbow Islands Revolution, my feelings became 
 a sudden wave of mixed frustration and sadness I haven't felt since my cat died.
  
  I sat confused with my stylus in hand.
  
  How could Taito allow such blasphemy to one the games 
 that made them great!?
  
  I was in denial. I knew deep down inside, Rainbow Islands was a great game, but with the stylus 
 format of Revolution, I thought twice.
  
  The biggest problem I found with Revolution was that, Bubby and Bobby were both floating in some 
 damn bubbles... I thought they took care of that whole bubble problem in the first game. They can 
 run, jump, and play like real boys now! I literally sat tapping at Bubby, and messing around with 
 the control settings to see if I could pop that stupid bubble. I turned off my DS, went to the 
 computer, and looked up Revolution on the net for any answers to my bubble popping query.
  
  I came back to my DS, giving the game another shot.
  
  Control of the main characters finally 
 got the best of me and I got tired of slashing my stylus at the countless foes, realizing that 
 Bubble Boy started floating towards the spikes on his own, dragging him back in the corner so I 
 can deal with the baddies, and then realizing that Bubble Boy just sat there watching me do all 
 the work, I became annoyed and angry at that vacant stare Bubby shot to the distance. I can see 
 why the two boys gained some weight over the years. If they could just get off their lazy --
  
  I bowed my head in silence, then sighed heavily.
  
  After an hour, I came back to my DS 
 to give the game another shot. This time I knew some good techniques and got through the first 
 two worlds pretty quickly. It had that old-school feel of an arcade game, but it still lacked 
 any of the charm the original had. And constantly dragging the little Bubble Boy felt like work 
 more than play.
  
  I came back the next day, still in denial, only to be disappointed for the last time. This time 
 I stuck my DS to the charger and went to my computer to play the original version on Legends, wondering 
 where the receipt for Revolution was.
  
  Overall, Rainbow Islands Revolution, like many revolutions in history ended in a bloody mess with 
 some crappy dictator at the top and pure chaos... Gameplay was sloppy, Control was horrid, and 
 it lacked the fun the original had. It's definitely not the worst remake I've seen, but definitely 
 the most disappointing. Taito... how could you let Codemasters manhandle one of your children like 
 that? I'm truly disappointed in you...
  
  Bad Taito... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Creapy_team
Rating: 4.3
Date: Apr 12, 2006 6:36 am PT
Review:  Really, what is it? 
  
  It is somekind of Yoshi's Touch & Go ripoff, where you controll this ugly boy in a 
  bubble while 
 his flying up and killing creatures with the magic touch of the stylus.
  
  The problem here is that the killing happends when you draw a line and REALEASE your pen from the 
 screen, which is REALLY ANNOYING because the eniemes is quiet quick and does evreything to bring 
 that Game Over screen up to you as quickly as possible. I could even get farer then level 2 on 
 EASY before I lost, and quickly put out the game card and put it on fire.
  
  The game has just 3 modes. Story mode, which is 7 islands with 3-5 levels each. And the Score Mode, 
 where you try to do those levels again with the goal to make as much score as you can in killing 
 those annoying eniemies, which isn't fun at all. And, right, the Multiplayer mode. But I didn't 
 play that 'cause noone beside me got the game. Lucky bastards. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
