-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Ratatouille
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/ds/action/ratatouille/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 Adventure levels are lively.
 Chopping vegetables and stirring pots with the stylus is fun.
 Remy's acrobatics are amusing.
 The 3D environments are loaded with cute details.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 You'll blow through the story in three hours.
 Doesn't incorporate much footage or voice from the movie.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Aug  2, 2007
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 7
Critic Score: 6.8, 9 Review (s)
User Score: 7.1, 55 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: THQ
Developer: Helixe
Genre: 3D Platformer
Date: Jun 26, 2007
ESRB: Everyone

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Ratatouille for the DS serves up a lively mix of 3D levels and touch-screen cooking tasks, but it's 
 over too soon. 

  Ratatouille for the Nintendo DS transforms key events from the popular Disney/Pixar movie into 
 a collection of adventure levels and touch-screen cooking tasks. In the adventure levels, you'll 
 help Remy the rat to run, jump, climb, and sneak his way through intricate 3D environments in order 
 to gather the ingredients necessary to prepare Linguini's recipes. Once you've collected the necessary 
 ingredients for a recipe, you'll then use the stylus and touch screen to chop those ingredients, 
 mix them together, and cook them up into the dishes that'll be served in the restaurant -- just like 
 Remy and Linguini did in the film. The game won't occupy more than an afternoon of your time, but 
 you'll probably enjoy every minute of it if you're a fan of the film it's based on.  

           In the adventure levels, you climb up shelves and scurry around the pantry hunting for 
 food.      

  All of the adventure missions take place in 3D replicas of the pantry, kitchen, cooler, and dining 
 areas at Gusteau's Restaurant. The environments aren't huge, but they're intricately laid out. 
 Each one has plenty of chairs and stacked boxes to climb on, sinks and stove surfaces to run across, 
 and multiple layers of shelves that allow you to ascend from the floor to the ceiling. Your job 
 is to gather the ingredients Linguini has requested without getting caught in too many mousetraps 
 or being seen by one of Skinner's goons. Remy is an athletic rat. Using the directional pad and 
 buttons, you can make him run, jump, climb up vertical wires, and perform a backward somersault 
 that doubles his leap. You can also ride on top of melons to spring traps, and use springboards 
 to hurtle Remy upwards. There aren't any enemies to speak of, at least not in the traditional sense. 
 Instead, a meter gradually fills up to represent how close you are to being seen. The meter will 
 decrease if you hide in dark cubbies or under overturned cans and boxes. If it fills up, Skinner 
 will catch you and you'll have to start the level over.  

  After you collect the necessary ingredients for a recipe, you'll then have to make the dishes for 
 that night's menu. This is accomplished through a series of minigame tasks that require heavy use 
 of the system's touch screen and microphone. First, you have to cut and chop the vegetables and 
 slice the breads and cheeses. As individual food items appear on the touch screen, you have to 
 trace the stylus along the indicated lines in order to cut the food before time runs out. Next, 
 you have to mix and cook the dishes. Using the stylus, you drag items from the side of the screen 
 into the three different pots, and then stir the pots to make them cook faster. If a pot gets too 
 hot, you can blow into the microphone to cool it down. Lastly, you have to plate and garnish the 
 dishes. Much like the cutting minigame, this is accomplished by tapping and drawing the indicated 
 patterns on the food with the stylus, which is supposed to represent laying down garnish and drizzling 
 sauces.  

  The 3D environments in the adventure levels are rather impressive. If you land on a bag of flour, 
 a white puff will erupt. If you run through a flaming cooktop, Remy's fur will turn dark and smoke 
 for a little while. As it is, Remy has a healthy range of animations. Watching him ride a melon 
 like a unicycle is hilarious, and seeing him use his back legs to push his way onto a ledge is 
 just plain cute. The 2D and 3D food items and pots in the cooking stages aren't nearly as impressive, 
 but you'll be too preoccupied by sliding the stylus around to care. In both types of levels, your 
 actions are accompanied by upbeat Parisian-style music and whimsical sound effects that mimic the 
 film's atmosphere. Meanwhile, the story is told through scenes displayed between stages that consist 
 of still images taken from the movie along with some text dialogue. Overall, the presentation is 
 about what you'd expect from a polished DS game, though it would've been nice if they had recorded 
 some speech clips.  

           Once you've gathered the ingredients, it's time to chop, cook, and plate the dishes in 
 the cooking game.      

  Each adventure mission takes about five minutes to finish, while the cooking tasks usually last 
 five or 10 minutes. You're always on the move in the adventure levels, and Remy's smell ability 
 ensures that you'll never get lost. The cooking minigames aren't terribly difficult, but using 
 the stylus to chop veggies and stir boiling pots is actually quite a lot of fun in small doses. 
 All told, the two alternating styles of play complement each other. The downside is that the short 
 levels combine to make a relatively brief game. You'll blow through the whole story in three hours. 
 There aren't any side quests or hidden bonuses to lure you into replaying missions. However, you 
 can kill some extra time by playing the stand-alone cooking minigame. You can even beam a copy 
 of it onto a friend's system and compete to see who can finish the dishes the quickest.  

  Short and sweet is the story with the Nintendo DS rendition of Ratatouille. The adventure levels 
 are lively and the touch-screen cooking game is very engaging, not to mention in line with what 
 Remy did in the film. It's just a shame that the game can be polished off in a single afternoon. 
     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (2 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: RingCollector
Rating: 7
Date: Sep 30, 2008 10:41 pm PT
Review:  Story: Based on the movie
  
  Music: Nothing special
  
  Graphics: Pretty good for a ds game
  
  Gameplay: In this game there are to ways to play. The 
 cooking mode and the platforming mode. The cooking mode is great. You cut up the food and cook 
 it and set the food on the plate. THQ made great use of the touch screen. Although sometimes this 
 mode will not be responsive. In story mode you will not only cook but be able to play as the rat. 
 Your goal is to get to the end of the stage or collect ingredients for a recipe while avoiding 
 the humans. It is quite fun but to easy. It is more intended to kids then hardcore gamers (obveusly) . 
 Story mode will last for a good 10 hours but thats about it. There is like no replay value in the 
 game. 
  
  Overall: Cooking mode is great. But the platforming part could have been longer and more challenging 
 but it is still a great game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TheGameGuy
Rating: 7
Date: Jul 4, 2007 8:30 am PT
Review:  I just finished playing Ratatouille for the Nintendo DS. Based on the Pixar film of the same name, 
 this game lets you follow the adventures of Remy (a young rat) as he pursues his dream of becoming 
 a chef. Not surprisingly, you control Remy as he scurries, leaps and climbs his way through scenes 
 inspired by the film. Not only does Remy have to avoid mouse traps and rat poison, but if he's 
 discovered while lurking in somebody's kitchen, they'll throw things at him. Fortunately, Remy 
 can hide under objects if it's likely he might be detected. This part of the game was okay, if 
 a little predictable. The reason it worked for me is that it did a good job of conveying the feeling 
 of being a small rodent scurrying around in a human world. Then there's the cooking.
  
  To prove his worth, Remy has to cook up some delicious French dishes. These cooking games are a 
 nice addition to an otherwise mundane platforming game. Those of you familiar with Cooking Mama 
 will find the cooking games quite familiar. You have to slice food, add it to the pot and keep 
 a sharp eye on everything in your kitchen lest anything overcook. One advantage that Cooking Mama 
 has over the Ratatouille cooking games is that you actually get the feeling that you're cooking 
 something. Each step has a purpose and every ingredient you prepare is going to get used. Ratatouille 
 obviously can't offer all of the cooking steps that Cooking Mama does, but in Ratatouille the ingredients 
 are irrelevant. You could be dicing a shoe and dropping autoparts in the pot - it makes no difference 
 to you and that lack of connection to what you're preparing really diminishes the sense of accomplishment 
 you get from the game. One thing that Ratatouille does improve over Cooking Mama is plating - as 
 fans of Iron Chef all know, plating is preparing your dish for the best visual appeal. At this 
 point, things really come together and makes you feel like a real French chef.
  
  Ratatouille is designed for a younger audience and an accomplished gamer will go through it rather 
 quickly. I collected over 40 lives when the game was over, and I hadn't died a single time. Still, 
 for it's innovative approach and fun gameplay, I give Ratatouille a 7 out of 10. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
