-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Rayman DS
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/ds/action/raymands/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 Solid and diverse platforming.
 Loads to do and many new abilities to unlock.
 Multiple areas within each level.
 The beautiful scenery and funny dialogue induce smiles.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 Full of frustrating camera problems.
 Inconsistent frame rate can induce nausea.
 No DS-specific features, except touch screen.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Mar 28, 2005
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 6
Critic Score: 6.0, 26 Review (s)
User Score: 7.2, 727 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Ubisoft
Developer: Ubisoft Montreal
Genre: 3D Platformer
Date: Mar 24, 2005
ESRB: Everyone

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Rayman DS is a port of the N64 version of Rayman 2, which was a great game. Unfortunately, the DS 
 game is full of frustrating graphical and camera problems. 

  Anyone who's played the Nintendo 64 version of Rayman 2: The Great Escape will immediately recognize 
 Rayman DS. That's because the DS game is a port of the N64 game, though with touch-screen support 
 added. Normally, that would be fine, since Rayman 2 is widely considered to be one of the best 
 and most endearing 3D platformers ever made. Unfortunately for Ubisoft's big-nosed hero, however, 
 his outing on the DS is dogged by a number of graphical issues that often interfere with gameplay. 

          Rayman DS is a port of the Nintendo 64 version of Rayman 2.     

  Just as Mario 64 did, Rayman DS combines a wide range of 2D and 3D gameplay concepts within the 
 framework of an expansive 3D world. On his own, Rayman has a healthy assortment of abilities. Right 
 off the bat, he can walk, run, jump, helicopter in midair, and shoot bursts of energy from his 
 fists. Upgrades are available later on that enable Rayman to fire stronger energy bullets, fly 
 for extended periods, and cause rain to fall on plants and electrified gates. In addition to his 
 own inherent arsenal of skills, Rayman can also interact with many of the objects and geographical 
 features within the environment. When you jump toward a ledge that's just outside his range, he'll 
 grab onto it with his hands. You can then tap up on the controller to pull him onto the platform. 
 If you land in a pool of water, you can make Rayman dive downward and swim, often revealing hidden 
 tunnels that normally aren't visible on dry land. In some levels, you can ride around on rockets 
 or water-ski by hanging onto a speedy snake. Other good examples of interactivity include mushrooms 
 that act as trampolines, grappling hooks that can be grabbed onto and swung from, overgrown ivy 
 that can act as ladders or handholds, and steep slopes that Rayman can slide down.  

  For the most part, the controls are simple and accommodating. The directional pad or touch screen 
 can be used to move Rayman, the B button activates jumping and flying, the A button activates his 
 attacks, and you can hold down the R button to lock on to enemies. One particularly nice aspect 
 of Rayman's bullet attack is that his shots will automatically fly toward enemies, so long as you're 
 pointing in their general directions. That means you can strafe and jump around without wondering 
 whether or not your shots are going to hit the heavily armed pirate that's shooting back at you. 
 In the original N64 game, you could make Rayman tiptoe, walk, or run, depending on how far you 
 pushed the analog stick. The DS implements the same scheme using the touch screen, so Rayman will 
 move more quickly depending on how far you drag the stylus beyond the center point.  

  Meanwhile, the story, characters, and dialogue are also all very charming. The game starts out 
 with Rayman and all his friends locked up in cages. We quickly learn that a pirate named Razorbeard 
 has locked everyone up and has broken something called the "heart of the world" into 1,000 pieces. 
 As luck would have it, Rayman's friend Murfy wasn't captured, so he helps Rayman bust out of his 
 cell. Murfy tells Rayman that the only way to free everyone and obtain the power to beat Razorbeard 
 is to collect the 1,000 Lums that form the "heart of the world," as well as track down four ancient 
 masks that will awaken a powerful being known as Polokus. For the player, that means exploring 
 levels, getting into fistfights with enemies, collecting the yellow orbs and cages necessary to 
 enhance Rayman's powers, and interacting with a hilarious cast of characters. You won't need much 
 of a sense of humor to crack a smile at Globox, the fat blue crybaby, or the Teensies, who are 
 a group of birdlike crackpots that open up new portals by performing a Russian folk dance.  

  The trippy, lighthearted music lends the perfect atmosphere to the environment, as does the voice 
 acting that accompanies much of the dialogue. Instead of recording plain old English speech for 
 the dialogue sequences, the developer recorded a unique kind of gibberish that sounds like a language 
 you might hear if you were stuck in an animated fantasy world. The only real complaint to be made 
 against the audio is that there aren't enough different sound effects. You'll hear the same splashes, 
 explosions, and creaking sounds constantly, and since the majority of enemies are robot pirates, 
 you'll also hear the same metallic grunts and death cries over and over.  

  At a glance, the graphics in Rayman DS are exceptional. The environments resemble the kinds of 
 tropical, cave, and volcanic settings you might expect to see somewhere in Africa. They're also 
 huge and heavily stocked with trees, rope ladders, and swings to interact with, as well as dynamic 
 features such as streams, waterfalls, and air currents. All the characters are extremely detailed 
 and have a good variety of different animations for things such as walking, jumping, reacting to 
 danger, and landing on their backsides. Some of the textures look muddy or blocky if you look at 
 them close up, but the trade-off to that is the ample draw distance, which makes it possible to 
 see most of the level at any given moment without worrying whether objects and hazards will just 
 pop into view up ahead.  

  While the graphics are gorgeous in some spots, there are problems related to the DS screen and 
 the in-game camera that have negative consequences toward the overall graphical quality of the 
 game, and, frequently, toward its gameplay as well. The game uses the graphics from the original 
 Nintendo 64 version, but the DS screen is much smaller and darker than a television screen is, 
 which often means it's difficult to make out small objects or to notice dark pitfalls, even when 
 they're right in front of you. The frame rate has a tendency to vary between silky smooth and full-on 
 jumpy... so much so, in fact, that in addition to making it tough to make precise jumps, you may 
 also find yourself feeling physically ill because of how the animation is constantly speeding up 
 and slowing down in certain levels. Worst of all, the camera has a mind of its own and tends to 
 shift focus at the most inopportune moments. It's easy to just walk right off a platform or fly 
 the wrong way because the camera failed to change position or decided to point in a useless direction. 
 Three different buttons can be used to shift to a first-person viewpoint, as well as move the camera 
 around. This helps a little, as do unlimited continues. Regardless, these screen and in-game camera 
 issues are extremely bothersome.  

          The jerky motion in Rayman DS might be enough to make your stomach churn.     

  Those 
 who do manage to cope with the game's graphical problems will probably manage to squeeze a fair 
 amount of enjoyment out of Rayman DS. Every level offers a wide range of places to go and things 
 to do, and you'll gain access to new areas within earlier levels once you upgrade Rayman's abilities. 
 All told, the story mode includes 45 individual areas spread across 19 levels, along with 19 short 
 bonus levels and three minigames.  

  In most respects, Rayman DS is a passable 3D platformer and a good alternative to Mario 64. However, 
 due to the various camera and graphics-related problems, you should probably stick to playing Rayman 
 2 on the Nintendo 64, PlayStation, Dreamcast, or PlayStation 2, assuming you either already own 
 the game or happen to own one of those other systems and are just now interested in playing it. 
     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (56 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: zcds
Rating: 5.5
Date: Mar 27, 2009 8:37 pm PT
Review:  In the steps of Mario 64 Ubisoft hoped that gammers would love a port of the Rayman classic on 
 their new hand held. What the developers forgot however was smooth playable game play. Rayman moves 
 like he has concrete shoes facing a strong wind in slow motion. he can't even walk in a straight 
 line and the environment will turn with out any warning leading to many cheap deaths. The camera 
 will fight you every step of the way swaying in unfriendly places or zooimng so far out you can't 
 see whats going on. The fighting is even more clunky than ever. it's hard to evade and attack with 
 how fast the game goes. The game looks decent for it's time and it has a nice sound track. Even 
 with the camera being bad it still focuses on the action at hand so it's not a big headache like 
 Mario 64. I can see a good game here but it's buried underneath some bad game play. Playing this 
 is like playing a damaged copy of the N64 version on a small TV. Just pick up the N64 version if 
 you want to play this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: marioboy333
Rating: 4.5
Date: Nov 26, 2008 6:40 pm PT
Review:  This game is bad. Don't even rent it. The camera is horrible. the controls are bad, the graphics 
 are bad everything is bad about it. When you are riding something you have like no control over 
 it.
  
  Those ball things are very weak. Also the flying is bad. the bosses are interesting. the story 
 makes sense. It gets very boring as you go through the game. I have beaten this game the last part 
 you ride a rocket. You have like no control over it. Which makes it almost impossible
  
  The battles are short. What I mean is there is not a lot of enemies. The PC version is a bit better 
 but still bad. The baby frogs are very annoying. The walking isn't straight. The walking is hard 
 to do. Also the life can be short. The game is bad so never get this game. The rushed this game. 
 My money could of been better spent. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: HappyGamingNerd
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jul 5, 2008 11:02 am PT
Review:  Rayman 2 is a classic one for PC and other consoles like dreamcast and playstation. I have the Rayman 
 2 for PC and its great, so i decided to pick up Rayman 2 for the Ds because i tought it would be 
 cool to have a portable version of it, because then you can take it evrywhere you go. Well i bought 
 it and i love it! Why Did gamespot give it a 6.0. Ok the controls are a bit clunky, but i dont see 
 any wrong with the graphics, and ones you get used to the controls youl be rocking back and forth 
 :) . Its Rayman 2 portable! isnt it awesome to play this game wherever you want? i like the funny 
 dialogue and the graphics, they are as good as the playstation version.
  
  Thats all i have to say about Rayman 2 Ds. If you dont buy this game when you can still get it, you 
 will miss one of the best game on DS. I Give it a 8.5 because of the controls that are a little 
 clunky, but like i said once you get used to it it is fun as hell! You will ride, swim, surf, and jump 
 on platforms every second, its AWESOME!
  
  Thanks for reading -HappyGamingNerd 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sega31098
Rating: 6.5
Date: Jun 23, 2008 2:59 pm PT
Review:  It's good because it's the classic Rayman 2 in the palm of your hands!
  The bad part is that the camera suddenly shifts and the laggy D-Pad gameplay will probably hurt 
 your thumb, especially in the bonus spage: You could get carpal from that! The game is designed 
 for left-handed people, so this is your lucky day left guys! The graphics are OK, but the framerate 
 is awful during gameplay; cutscenes have good framerate. There are no FMVs; just polygon cutscenes.
 
  There are no touch screen support other than movement. The music was dumbed down quite a bit like 
 the N64 version was from the PC version; the N64 music is the same as the DS version because this 
 is a direct port of the N64 version.
  The voices are in an amusing gibberish.
  Overall, you should find out if it's good before playing. I suggest you get Rayman Revolution; 
 that is perbably the best version as it has voice-overs and runs at a great framerate. The Dreamcast 
 version is great as well, as is the PS1, PC and N64 versions. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: xmreaper
Rating: 4
Date: Nov 6, 2007 4:55 pm PT
Review:  I absolutely do not like this game one bit im kicking myself for even buying it i would waaaaaaayyy 
 rather have bought final fantasy tactics a2 that game looks really good but the problem with this 
 game was that you can barley jump on to other platformes i find myself useing the helicopter spin 
 so much i get reallly impatient because he slow moving. there are barley any upgrades for your 
 charecter except that the little ball you shoot out changes color and gets bigger. the boss fights 
 are so confuseing you have to figure them out yourself you have no instructions on how to kill 
 or defeat them. If you read this review my opinion is to buy any other game for ds besides this 
 is it really is crappy... :/ 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Jamesey11
Rating: 7.5
Date: Oct 14, 2007 12:32 am PT
Review:  This is a nearly great game. In this game you play as a character called rayman (obviosly) and 
 go through some different levels. This game doesn't just keep going. By that i mean that after 
 you complete a level you go back to this swamp and click on the level you want to go in. You can 
 only unlock one level at a time and you start of with one level. The point of this game is to get 
 four masks. You do a series of levels before you get the mask. By that i mean that you do a couple 
 of levels then you do a boos battle to get one mask. Then you do a different series of levels and 
 do a boss fight to get another mask and so on.
  
  Gameplay: 8
  The gameplay in this game is great. You move around nice and smoothly and the controls are great 
 aswell.
  
  Graphics:8 The graphics in this game are great for the DS.
  
  Sound:7
  The sound in this game is just good. The music may get a bit annoying though.
  
  Value:7
 
  This game is a bit to short. I would of liked it to be a bit longer but the the length is still 
 good
  
  Overall:7.5
  Overall this is nearly a great game with great gameplay, great graphics, good sound and good value. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DaDude253
Rating: 5
Date: Oct 2, 2007 2:49 am PT
Review:  GAMEPLAY: It's the remake of the old N64 game this game was free for me with m DS so i diden't 
 exspect much. Now you start off in a ship with some blob i cant realy remember bit a hummor in the 
 words but all that is killed by no speach sound what so ever. The game play is basicly using the 
 pad or even stupider the touch screan and if you use the touch pen with your right hand u cant 
 press the a b buttons and oh did i mention you cant fix or change the button latout whatsoever. The 
 camara angle is awkward is ever you can move it around with the back trigger but moving around 
 changes it and its unstable if you moving. Its basicly a paltform jump on head ect. it can be fun 
 sometimes but bosses are booring and frusteraiting and unintresting boss fights that get old fast 
 [5]
  
  GRAPHICS: This game cameout around the time of the DS and this game did nothing to show off the 
 DS Graphic Cababiltys. The frame rate is 20 never goes higher and its containly jerky. the grpahics 
 look worst than the N64 back in the day [4]
  
  SOUND: Sounds are all there music is the same as the old game but the sounds are very unrealistic 
 and disodrdered the sound effects are proberly the worst part of the game but the music is still 
 good but tirrible sound effects [3]
  
  VALUE: Its a pretty shallow package with not much to keep you going for long but with a $20 price 
 tag its perfect for children [7] RESULT: Its a good game for a kid about 7 years old and its cheap 
 so its not realy apleaing to older poplem so if you exspactations are't high you can't go wrong 
 with this 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mnmguy94
Rating: 6.9
Date: Jul 4, 2007 11:07 am PT
Review:  At first this game didn&acute; t appeal to me, but after a awhile I played it and got a little interested. 
 Gameplay-The story as far as I know makes sense and has meaning. An evil Pirate named Razorbeard 
 broke the heart of the world and locked everyone up. Rayman needs to collect forms of energy called 
 lums to restore the heart of the world. He has to collect all 1000. Yes 1000. But, it loses points 
 for frustrating controls that sometimes refuse to obey you. The game could get pretty boring since 
 there aren&acute; t sufficient enemies. Most of the time your just walking around following a path 
 to conquer that level.
  
  Graphics-The graphics are bad. Even for a DS game. Its blurry and fuzzy and you can see the pixels 
 making up the game. The scenery in some areas are creative and pretty, which makes the game come 
 to life. But, there isn&acute; t enough lighting to see clearly so things can get pretty dark.
 
  
  Sound-This area of the game is decent. Yes, it tends to repeat the same sound effects over and 
 over again with different situations, but while playing you could hear sound from the background 
 such as wildlife and the cages holding prisoners. Value-I&acute; m not sure about this one since 
 it was a present. But, I suggest $20 or less. If anything above, then it&acute; d be recommended 
 to buy something else. Tilt-I&acute; m not really sure what this category is all about, but all 
 in all, its an ok game. My experience so far has been fun (frustrating when I die) .
  
  Probably a good game for fans, but if your not a fan, like me, then maybe you should rent this. 
 The touch screen was completely useless for this game. All you can do is move and its simpler just 
 to use the directional pad. So you might be better off with Rayman for PS2. It doesn&acute; t win 
 the best game of the year award but its ok for a DS game. Warning, playing this game for a long 
 period of time may make your head hurt. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: elfsong
Rating: 2.4
Date: Jun 16, 2007 8:32 am PT
Review:  This game is virtually unplayable, the camera twists and spins sickeningly making you feel dizzy 
 and well, just sick in general!
  
  The gameplay is often extremely difficult and you cannot save whenever you want. This is so annoying 
 as you have to play whole chunks over and over again! The touch screen was a total waste of time- 
 controlling movement on it is impossible- they should have just left it blank!
  
  The graphics are 3D and OK expect often too dark or lacking detail. The sound I can't really remember 
 so it must have been pretty boring but not as horrific as the game.
  
  Overall this game is terrible and I will never try another Rayman game ever! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: summer_star17x
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jun 9, 2007 8:41 am PT
Review:  I'm a fan of Rayman, and when I saw this game only got a 6.0 on Gamespot, I was shocked. So I skimmed 
 through the few player reviews that gave this game a 7 and higher. They seemed to like it pretty 
 good. So I went with my gut, and bought this game the other day for 14.99, not bad since it's regular 
 price was 19.99.
  When I started playing the game, the first thing that popped out at me were the graphics. The horrible 
 pixelated background graphics. When a movie scene was going on, I just couldn't keep my eyes off 
 of the pixels in the clouds. It's like I could count them, literally. But after I got into the 
 game, the pixels weren't that noticeable. And they kind of grow on you, too.
  One thing that got me were the controls. You can either move Rayman with the D-pad, or there's 
 a D-pad like diagram on the touchpad, and you're either suppose to use your thumb to control it, 
 or the stylus. I haven't figured that out yet, because both ways are EXTREMELY uncomfortable to 
 me, and since I'm right handed, there's no way I can use my right hand to control him, and my left 
 to make him jump and shoot. Just impossible. So I decided to stick with the D-pad to control Rayman. 
 However, there is a downside. Using the D-pad makes Rayman walk really funny, and kind of slowly 
 too. But using the Touchscreen D-pad, you can make him run as fast as you want. When I first tried 
 using that touchscreen d-pad, I always found myself running off cliffs or into walls. Definitely 
 not fun. You'll have to be really skilled to use the touchscreen D-pad.
  I found the gameplay to be really fun. Sure, the camera angles are a little screwy, but I learned 
 to ignore them and just enjoy. You could just be standing there scratching your nose for a second, 
 and the next thing you know, the camera is going all haywire on you, moving around like a crazy 
 cat. But besides that, Rayman can run, swim, jump, shoot fireballs, punch, climb, and even use 
 his hair to helicopter. The obstacles can be pretty difficult too, so you spend a little bit of 
 time trying to get through them. This game is a pretty fun game. I would love to give it a higher 
 rating, but because of the few flaws it has, I can only give it a 7.5. But this game is definitely 
 worth playing, whether you're a fan of the series or not. A great 3D platformer fun for anyone. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: PHJ69
Rating: 5
Date: May 7, 2007 8:28 pm PT
Review:  When I first started playing Rayman DS I didnt think it was that bad. In fact it was quite fun. 
 The characters are cute and the humour will make you chuckle. But as I got further into it I discovered 
 what its major fault was; the control system.
  
  The graphics, sound, and camera are average and you could forgive this on the DS if the game play 
 was better than average. Unfortunately game play is affected by the controls which really let Rayman 
 down, and at times make it almost unplayable.
  For example in one level I found myself having to zigzag Rayman across a platform as the camera 
 would not centre and trying to depress the d-pad diagonally is impossible.
  
  There have been many instances where the unresponsive controls have caused Rayman to die and it 
 will test your patience when it happens more than once in the same spot.
  
  Rayman DS had the potential to be a great game and a little more time and effort in fixing the 
 control issues would have made it a classic DS title. Extras such as unlocking mini race games 
 at the end of each level by successfully collecting all the Lums are a good incentive to keep gamers 
 interested. There are even some levels that are fun and challenging to play.
  
  Rent or borrow this title but buy it only if you like throwing your DS across the room in frustration. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Gorge-a-Maniac
Rating: 4.5
Date: Apr 2, 2007 2:16 am PT
Review:  I never played Rayman 2, which this game is a port of, but I got this one thrown in free when i 
 bought my DS Lite. The graphics are very hard on the eyes, and textures are not flattering to the 
 already jagged object models. The gameplay is a bother to get your head around as the camera is 
 unintuitive, controls have no finesse and the poor graphics make it hard to spot important game-objects. 
 Largely negative comments yes, would I buy it out of pocket? No. Although I cant complain as it's 
 a freebie. Save your money for Advance Wars or the upcoming Zelda: PH. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sbanhatti
Rating: 6.1
Date: Feb 12, 2007 1:10 pm PT
Review:  Graphics:
  I'll start with the graphics of the game first of all. At first, this game looks sort of impressive, 
 because it is a completely 3d world on the ds, but eventually you start to realise the graphics 
 are terrible. There is not one curve in the whole game, and the textures are so pixelated, they 
 hurt your eyes!
  
  Gameplay:
  Controlling rayman is a bit difficult, due to the lack of an analog stick. There are SEVERAL narrow 
 pathways in the game, and its really hard not to fall off them. The joystick simulator the game 
 makers chose to put on the touchscreen is even worse and is unusable!! Despite all the control 
 issues, the actual game is okay; there are a lot of unique levels that I havent seen in other games 
 (for example, water- skiing while attached to a snake's neck!)
  
  Difficulty: In some places this game is really hard - some of the levels are huge and whenever 
 you die, you get massively frustrated!! you can only save after a complete level, which is a bummer.
 
  
  IN SHORT, IF YOU ARE LOOKING FOR A CHALLENGING GAME AND DON'T MIND DYING A LOT AND GETTING FRUSTRATED 
 WITH THE CAMERA CONTROL, GET THIS GAME. ITS NOT QUITE AS BAD AS IT SOUNDS, REALLY :-) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: strangeseraph
Rating: 5.6
Date: Jan 15, 2007 5:30 am PT
Review:  This game actually gave me a physical headache trying to play it. The camera angles were so bad 
 and the character was so hard to control that I just couldn't get to the end of the first level. 
 My eyes hurt.
  
  There were some clever points, like the faerie things you could get tutorials from, and the landscape 
 was pretty. But you can't save your game until you finish the first level, and I couldn't find 
 my way around because of the camera. It was bad. Don't buy this game. You'll thank me for it later. 
 Beleive me. : (
  
  One thing I'd like to point out is that the characters were nicely designed. I think if all these 
 flaws above were fixed, this game would be much better to play. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: shengongwu3000
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 31, 2006 6:08 pm PT
Review:  Based on the Nintendo 64 game, Rayman 2: The Great Escape, this is the revamped version of the 
 original one. There are some changes in the game. He can shoot balls of light out from his right 
 hand limitless. My favorite part of this game is that I have to collect all 1000 yellow lums throughout 
 the whole game. Lums are mystical fireflys of energy that balance the world. The red lums restore 
 life, blue lums store oxygen while you swim underwater, green lums are level checkpoints that save 
 your spot in the course, and the purple lums let you shoot a ball of light and convert it into 
 a rope to swing from one place to another. There are only three silver lums; the first one for 
 shooting tiny balls of lights, second for throwing blue ones, and the last for chucking yellow 
 balls. The golden hands give you superpowers only to maximize the yellow balls big enough to knock 
 out the robot pirates. This is the best game ever. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: YoungStacks
Rating: 7
Date: Dec 17, 2006 8:03 pm PT
Review:  Its just basically a port if you played it on the 64 you will be once again replaying it on the 
 ds. I like all ray man games even if i played them already . you have power ups , you can get upgrades, 
 you glide. jump, you swim, and the graphics are just fine in my opinion ( just not too up close) . 
 The only problems I have is the camera and that theres not to much to do with the touch screen 
 other than moving your character ( if you wish to) but nothing to big and I really do not have 
 much to say but it is an alright game and if you like ray man but it but if you hated it on the 
 N64 do not but it but its all up to you. It can occupy your time if your into it so overall i give 
 it an 7.0 because theres nothing that would make you urging to get this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: romanator
Rating: 9.1
Date: Oct 23, 2006 12:31 am PT
Review:  Repeat after me, RAYMAN DS IS NOT A BAD GAME.
  Get that stuck in your head and your in for a heck of a ride!
  One, Rayman ds is still a 3D game. 
 +2
  Two, Rayman ds is full of creative enemies and Heros. +2
  Three, Rayman ds captures what it originaly set out to do. +2
  People bagg this game way to much 
 for stupid reasons, so what if there are some bad camera angles.
  So what if there are no multiplayer aspects or minigames.
  What it does, it does well.
  All 
 you need to enjoy Rayman ds is imagination.
  His interaction with the world is astonishing, his animation is fluent, he is Rayman.
  Thats 
 good enough for me. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GeekyDad
Rating: 6.7
Date: Sep 9, 2006 9:12 pm PT
Review:  ... but you just didn't deliver. 
  
  I was late in purchasing this title, and did so against the advice of pretty much every professional 
 game reviewer. I loved Rayman 2: The Great Escape so much, and wanted to be able to both actually 
 finish the game -- which I never had the opportunity to do -- and have it for play on the go. Perhaps 
 I should have heeded those reviews... The game is, however, not a total disaster, as some critics 
 contend. But it is rife with flaws. Much of my disappointment stems from the fact that DC -- the 
 folks who did the actual porting of the game -- didn't seem to put much consideration into the 
 unique interface of the DS. What you end up with is an N64-like game that you're meant to play 
 on the DS. In that I mean controlling Rayman (and the camera around him) are not compatible with 
 the DS. The virtual analog stick is a valiant effort, as is the ability to use the D-pad in lieu 
 of it. However, the D-pad responds so unnaturally that you're constantly forced to battle with 
 the controls to get Rayman to perform the way you intend. I wouldn't mind the constant-run state 
 that Rayman stays in when using the D-pad if his movements were more fluid like the characters 
 in Animal Crossing: Wild World. However, Rayman's movements are spastic and floppy (all over the 
 place) . 
  
  That said, there's still a fair amount of fun to the game. The level designs still manage to conjure 
 a smile from me each time I start a new area. What I loved about the original is still mostly here 
 in Rayman DS. Rayman 2 was the one platformer that spoke to me in a way that allowed me to always 
 have fun and never get frustrated. From a level-design aspect those qualities are still present. 
 But the controls definitely hamper that experience.
  
  If the controls hamper the experience, the camera frustrates it to the point of being disheartening. 
 I haven't finished the game, and find myself only coming back to it when I'm pretty bored. At the 
 halfway mark the gameplay becomes somewhat of a chore, and I personally can only tolerate it in 
 small spurts. Most reviewers were sure to make mention of how the camera could jerk in undesired 
 directions "at the most inopportune times." They were right. Many reader reviews try to refute 
 this fact, but I can definitely attest to it. Believe me when I say, I wanted to prove reviewers 
 wrong about Rayman DS. But the truth is, for the most part, they were right. 
  
  The "additional levels" are, so far, little more than the same racing level repeated 20 times over. 
 I haven't unlocked them all, but there's really little incentive to so. 
  
  Graphics: The main disappointment here is not that Rayman DS doesn't look as good as it did perhaps 
 in previous versions of Rayman 2, but that it doesn't look as good as it could on the DS. Some 
 of the graphic elements are really quite beautiful, but the amount of blocky-looking textures definitely 
 outweighs the good. In the absense of texture filtering, DC could have perhaps done more in the 
 area of anti-aliasing -- a technique that should have helped to give a more smoothed-out look to 
 most textures in the game. 
  
  The music is perhaps one of the game's strongest elements. Though there are some really sweet themes 
 and cadences missing that were in the original Rayman 2, the DS version still offers a very lovely 
 array of level themes, sounds and quirky voice jibberish. 
  
  Overall, Rayman DS is still a wealth of platforming genius. Unfortunately, poor controls and an 
 even poorer camera system prevent you from getting at most of that gameplay treasure. Graphics 
 are acceptable, but much of the beauty of the original is lost due to what I interpret as poor 
 translating. And though there are no real unlockables to speak of or a multiplayer mode, the story 
 mode is pretty sizeable. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ---DSLite ---
Rating: 7.1
Date: Aug 23, 2006 2:23 am PT
Review:  Gameplay:
  The Gameplay in Rayman DS is let down by extremely frustrating difficulty. You can be going fine 
 at one second and then get stuck all of a sudden. Or you can just as easily die. So basically the 
 gameplay is exactly the same as in Rayman 2 The Great Escape but now it is alot more frustrating 
 because of a shocking camera at certain times and increased difficulty. The game also suffers from 
 a few glitches. Them few glitches are absolutely terrible, for example in level 4 at a certain 
 point..... You can hover through the walls!
  Also Ubisoft's attempt at using the touch screen is appaling. You will only be able to use the 
 touchscreen if you are left handed and wish to walk with the stylus rather than simply using the 
 d-pad. So really if you are left handed you might like this game more.
  
  Graphics:
  The graphics are exactly the same as they were in the N64 version of the game which really is excellent. 
 Enviroments are very detailed and the only exception is when you look closely at something. Clouds 
 move, sky changes between night and day it can rain. A first for what I have seen on the Nintendo 
 DS.
  
  Sound:
  The sound in Rayman DS is exactly the same as it was in Rayman 2 The Great Escape and then and 
 now it is great. It is nothing that will stick in your head say like the super mario brothers theme 
 but still the theme is good. Unfortunately the voices by all of the characters in the game are 
 done in simlish as compared to the Playstation 1 version of the game where they are all in english. 
 It would have been good if the voices were in english but still the simlish is good and often quite 
 funny to listen to.
  
  Value:
  This game can be found relatively cheap nowadays. The prices vary a lot from store to store but 
 a lot of the stores have this game under the RRP which is a good thing. So if you can get it for 
 under the RRP I would recommend this game. But really the game is still not worth it because it 
 suffers from terrible glitches and extremely hard levels. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: loopy_101
Rating: 6.5
Date: Feb 23, 2008 12:24 pm PT
Review:  Rayman DS is a simple port of the Nintendo 64 game Rayman 2: The Great Escape, a platform adventure 
 turned classic. What Rayman DS features that's significantly different to Rayman 2 is the touch 
 screen feature that's one of the DS' highlights and reasons for purchase. Unfortunately Rayman 
 DS does not take full advantage of the touch screen and pretends it's the joystick from the Nintendo 
 64 controller.
  
  Unfortunately too the touch screen is specifically better for left handed players due to the lack 
 of right-handed touch screen capabilities (That Mario 64 DS featured, mindful of its players) . 
 Again it is upsetting as there would be multiple uses for the touch screen involving mini games 
 and the bonus level (that all made our thumbs sore after playing) . 
  
  So while playing you would probably prefer to use the standard D-pad for interaction with Rayman. 
 However due to the DS' button layout, lack of the joystick from the Nintendo 64 controller and 
 the poorly converted controls it is difficult to control Rayman with ease through sequences that 
 need quick reflexes and thinking. 
  
  Also the graphics while as lush and detailed as on Rayman 2 expericence real frame rate issues 
 again wreck the game in spots that experience lots of activity and action. However the fortunate 
 news is the sound and music of Rayman 2 have been restored brilliantly to DS although featuring 
 some minor missing tracks (maybe due to limitations of space on the DS cartridge) . 
  
  Yet still the bizarre, but wonderful music and sound effects can return the nostalgia from the 
 earlier Rayman games. That too, and the actual length of the game is still as lush and expansive 
 as before another advantage however to Rayman DS is there are few loading screens and when they 
 do appear the length of them is short between 5-10 seconds. 
  
  However to value's worth Rayman DS features short of anything new compared to conversions of other 
 popular Nintendo 64 games returned to the DS. Thus because of this there's little reason to purchase 
 Rayman DS at full price or maybe even at all. Maybe Rayman fans should just wait until Rayman Raving 
 Rabbids is released for the Nintendo Wii or just purchase a more reliable platform game for the 
 DS 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DJG24992
Rating: 4.4
Date: Jul 18, 2006 10:02 am PT
Review:  I loved this game on the N64 and got this on the DS hoping to relive the experience... I was wrong. 
 This game all around sucks. The graphics are painful and ugly. The sound in this game sounds like 
 it's muffled and hard to understand what is coming out of the speakers. But the worst quality is, 
 yes, the controls. There are 2 choices to control this game - Crappy touch screen method, or crappy 
 Buttons method. I couldn't tell you how the stroy is because I couldn't even finish the game. Whatever 
 you do, don't even waste time thinking about this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Spongemario
Rating: 3.2
Date: Jun 14, 2006 4:41 pm PT
Review:  What this game is, is a 3-D platformer/adventure which is a direct port of Rayman 2: The Great 
 Escape which has already appeared on many other systems. This version is simply portable. That's 
 about it.
  This game, again, is a direct port of what gamers hail as a "really great game." For me, this was 
 the first time playing Rayman 2. I've been disappointed.
  Razorbeard, leader of the robot pirates from space, come to take over the Teensie's homeworld. 
 Rayman and his friend Globox fight the robot pirates, and end up getting seperated. Now Rayman 
 has to fight off the pirates, rescue Globox, and rescue all 1000 of the Lums, known as the "Heart 
 of the World."
  This game is decieving. On the box, it says there are over 40 levels. There's really like...18. 
 Sure, there's additional mini-game type levels in which you have to beat rapidly on your DS's face 
 buttons, but that doesn't count for the game's meat.
  Also, the box displays screenshots of Rayman 2... playing on the Dreamcast. In reality, all you 
 see is a blocky Rayman, and green and brown. Sometimes red and blue. Yeah, you're really not seeing 
 much here. It just looks like a mess.
  The music for some odd reason likes to play and not play at times. When I'm walking around, it's 
 all quiet except for Rayman's steps, then suddenly music starts playing. Shouldn't music be playing 
 all the time?
  People actually like all of the gibberish that Rayman and all of the characters speak, but it seems 
 like each character has their own one piece of trademarked gibberish and that's all they ever say. 
 I've never heard Rayman whine so much.
  Voice acting, or at least a much bigger variety of gibberish would be better.
  Controlling it? 
 Ha, don't bother. Believe it or not, using the Dpad in a 3-D game is bad. In this case, it's the 
 better of the two options. The touch screen control is flawed because the virtual control stick 
 is far too large to use. Oh look, you can move it around on some parts of the touch screen! Rayman's 
 Dpad movements feel delayed for some reason, so when you're trying to get somewhere, be prepared 
 to be running for a bit.
  It's nice that the game has an auto lock-on system to defeat baddies. Really, it's nice. That's 
 something positive about this game.
  For the minigames, you have to rapidly hit a button to make a small creature run to beat one of 
 Razorbeard's minions. Though, believe it or not, it can be accomplished, it is NOT fun to rapidly 
 hit DS face buttons. It hurts.
  
  Find this game on a different, better system. Avoid the DS version. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kg316kg
Rating: 8
Date: Jun 7, 2006 7:38 pm PT
Review:  This game is not what I expected it to be but it was okay. The DS game looks like the Nintendo 
 64 game. It also had the same graphics. I thought since it was going to be on the DS, that everything 
 would be better. But I was wrong. But overall it is a good game. I really like the game. But dont 
 you think it is weird that he has no legs or arms? That is cool and funny. Also it took me like 
 a year to get it because I could not find the game anywhere. I enjoy this game a lot. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: wee_ged_2005
Rating: 8
Date: Apr 13, 2006 9:04 am PT
Review:  Rayman DS is a cool fantasy adventure game but I think they could improve and make more powers 
 and a better story line. I think the graphics were good for a Rayman game but they're all the Rayman 
 games have the same powers and none added. The gamplay was pretty good the cut scenes were cool 
 the could be a bit annoying it's good value very cheap and the grows on you it doesn't take long 
 to get used to it's easy and all people would like it buy it play it love it. Also a bit of improvement 
 in the bad guys they aren't good enough they're too easy to kill. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: baseballboy6595
Rating: 5.4
Date: Apr 12, 2006 6:35 pm PT
Review:  Rayman is a poor game but not as bad as you can get. The worst game I own is Pokemon Dash and this 
 game rates second. This game is not very good because it has only 1 gamemode and no extra unlockables 
 except powers.
  
  Gameplay- The game has a bad storyline. You are out to save some planet with a bunch of guys. This 
 game is really hard acctualy. The gameplay is the most imporant part of any game and this game 
 is what it lacks most in. Also, this game makes no use of the touch screen.
  
  Graphics- The graphics are not very good. Kinda fuzzy, but the camera will push you over the edge. 
 It will move the wrong way and totally mess up up bigtime. It is also hard to see where you are 
 going cause of the camera and the camera is the #1 cause of death in this game.
  
  Sound- Who pays attention to this sound? The sound is weak and there is no point in the sound because 
 there is about no noise.
  
  Value- So- So. But with only 1 gamemode this game will get old fast. It is only about $20 dollars 
 so go for it if you don't care about anything I've said.
  
  This game is only reccommended to a hard- core Rayman gamer. I thought it looked great, but I made 
 a mistake. It isn't horrible, just could use some big ajustments. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: liljakey_06
Rating: 1.9
Date: Apr 11, 2006 3:45 pm PT
Review:  this game is horrible. its got a horrible camera, horrible gameplay, horrible everything. whatever 
 u do dont buy this game its just a waste of money. when u finish it theres no extras which is very 
 dissapointing. compared to every other ds game this is rubbish. the graphics are okay but the camera 
 ruins that for u. on the playstation i thought this game was as bad as it could get until i played 
 it on the ds. 
  final verdict:
  dont buy this game it belongs in the bin buy something good like nintendogs instead. 
  i have 
 just one thing left too say. ubisoft how could a good developer sink this low??????? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Supadan
Rating: 7.2
Date: Mar 6, 2006 9:55 am PT
Review:  personally i dont think it is... it has too much of a story to it and not enough action and fighting, 
 it is more finding things... the graphics are good for a nintendo DS gamme but i still don't enjoy 
 the game that much... i prefer the other rayman game on other consoles like PS2... if you were 
 thinking to get this game i would definately rent it first, you will not be impressed, and i think 
 that this is a let down for ubisoft when they have produced better games like Rayman 3, but then 
 again this is the first rayman game on the DS and there could be more better things to come, but 
 the decision is totally up to you, you might like it but i was a bit unhapy, have fun playing... 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: s0uld4rk
Rating: 8.2
Date: Feb 26, 2006 4:40 am PT
Review:  It was a good game, but it has some parts that are extremely boring. This game has some levels 
 that are dificult. This my first impression because I didnt finish it yet.
  The graphics are good, but it should be better. The gameplay is the worst thing in the game, some 
 controls dont respond and it's boring. The sound is normal for this type of game, but the next 
 time it must be better. The tilt is very good, levels well designed and with a lot of colours.
 
  I am enjoying this game very much and you should by this game.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: crypto-236
Rating: 6.8
Date: Feb 14, 2006 5:57 am PT
Review:  Nintendo are legends in platforming action, italien plumber anyone? And while most will be putting 
 mario 64 ds in their shiney new systems there is some of the most solid platforming action around 
 in the form of rayman. 
  Its got some excellent level design, loveable characters, nice graphics and overall top notch gameplay 
 but its also got a questionable framerate, muddy colouring and NO DS SPECIFIC FEATURES!!!
  The touch screen control is a decent effort but where are the mini games, lower screen map, multiplayer 
 even? Its a bare bones port that has so much unrealised potential. However if u want a darker take 
 on mario and can overlook some flaws there's a lot of fun to be had here. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: YearoftheSnake5
Rating: 5.6
Date: Feb 13, 2006 1:05 pm PT
Review:  The classic Rayman 2 for the N64 comes to the DS, however, your interest in this port will be short 
 lived.
  
  You play as Rayman, who has been captured, along with everyone else, by pirates. The world is overrun 
 with the pirates, and with Rayman captured, their hope dwindles. Rayman's good friend Globox brings 
 him a silver lumb to give him his power back, and the two escape. After escaping, Rayman finds 
 that Globox is nowhere to be found. Rayman then sets out on a quest to rid the world of pirates 
 and find his friends.
  
  The graphics are on the glitchy side. Although the graphics are solid in the 64 version, you'll 
 be plagued by choppy frame rates, and poorly ported character animations. Rayman looks alright, 
 but does seem a bit off in places. Same goes for everyone else. The envirnment looks pixilated 
 in spots, and in others, it looks like a drunken mess of pixels. If you start to swing, or use 
 your hair-helicopter in a large area, the frame rate really slows down. The camera gets in the 
 way a lot. When running around in the world, the camera will steadily wander in front of you, or 
 not go the way you want it to. When swinging, the camera goes all over the place, and makes landing 
 more difficult than it needs to be. Eye effects and others will be a bit off target. As in the 
 eyes are in one spot, and the effect is taking place in another.
  
  Gameplay can be a hassle as well. Jumping and finding your way though the envirnment is made doubly 
 difficult thanks to the camera, and inresponsive controls. You can choose to control Rayman from 
 the touch screen, or from the controller pad. However, controlling rayman with the controller pad 
 is so inresponsive, that it takes 3/4 sec for the game to react. Steering him from the touch screen 
 works the best in terms of being responsive, but you won't be able to reach the L button which 
 you will need time and again. Locking onto enemies to fire your energy blasts gets annoying. The 
 lock-on doesn't stay on the character too often, and will give out after being on for so long. 
 But enough of this negetivity, now let's get to a good part about Rayman DS. The levels are huge 
 and there's a lot of them. There is also secret levels to unlock, but nothing that's not in the 
 original 64 version.
  
  The sound is great. It's clear, and makes sense for each envirnment. The sheer creativity of the 
 music is also a good point. Sound effects are also on the good side in terms of being clear and 
 making sense.
  
  After you beat Rayman DS, there isn't anything to go back to. There isn't any extra features, minigames, 
 or replay value in this game. So if you're looking for something that'll entertain you for long 
 after the game is complete, it's best to look elsewhere.
  
  Rayman DS fails to live up to the pedigree of it's console counterpart, and doesn't provide the 
 gameplay experience that it once did. With it's frustrating camera, graphical issues, and overall 
 lack of effort, there really isn't any reason to own this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: barkera0
Rating: 8.4
Date: Jan 24, 2006 12:45 pm PT
Review:  Introduction: 
  Rayman 2 was first released on the N64 and PC. It was an amazing game with its environments and 
 its content. It has now been remade for the DS. It is just as good as its previous versions except 
 for one thing. It makes a hopeless use of the touch screen.
  
  Graphics: 9/10 
  The graphics in this game are very good. They are outstanding and provide a different environment 
 on each level. There are many explosions of pirate ships and the graphics show that extremely well. 
 Rayman himself looks great. His face is particularly animated and has a good expression. The graphics 
 on this game are also unique with the different characters such as Ly the fairy and Globox. 
  
  Sound: 9/10 
  The sound on this is really good. The character have their own language on 
 this game and it is translated at the bottom of the screen. The sounds on each level are very good 
 but could be a little different as some levels have very similar music. Something that is not heard 
 a lot on other games is you can hear Rayman when he walks. There is also a good range of character 
 voices. The sound can also be quite dramatic. 
  
  Gameplay and Controls 
  (Non-Touch Screen) : 10/10 
  (Touch Screen) : 4/10
  Averaged to: 7/10
  The gameplay is really, 
 really good on this and so are the controls. There are only a few so it doesn't get to confusing 
 but Rayman still has lots of moves and attacks. Such as a power shot and if you hold it down longer 
 the shot will be more powerful. Just with a single button you already have 3 Separate moves. The 
 controls are also close together so it is easy to get to as well. 
  However, that is for the control pad. The touch screen controls are terrible. You get a tiny arrow 
 pad on the touch screen you are expected to tap to make him move. It doesn't work very well at 
 all.
  
  Replay Value: 9/10 
  The replay value on this game is huge. Apart from going over the main quest again and again like 
 many have done. There is also the quest to collect all the 1000 Lums. This will take a lot of time 
 and effort but is also a lot of fun to do and you will be very proud of yourself when you manage 
 to complete it. 
  
  Challenge:9/10 
  This is a very challenging game but not so hard that after a while you will just want to give up. 
 There is a lot to do and some of the puzzles you must complete will take a lot of practice. 
  
  Rent or Buy? 
  In my personal opinion (being a Rayman fan) I would buy the game. However, 
 if your new to Rayman you may want to rent it first. There is endless fun and a lot of replay value. 
 The graphics, sound, controls and gameplay are all fantastic. There is so much to do in this game 
 it will keep you entertained for weeks. 
  
  Conclusion: 8/10 
  I gave this game a 8/10. If you have read my Rayman 2 review for PC then you'll know I gave that 
 a 9 and this an 8. That is because the game has not been improved enough and does not make enough 
 good use of the touch screen. However, it is still a fantastic game. If you have never played a 
 Rayman game before you can still just go onto this one without any trouble. I strongly recommend 
 you get this game and Good Luck to you when you get it! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: booo95
Rating: 8
Date: Dec 27, 2005 4:12 pm PT
Review:  First of all this game has lots of gameplay. You'll have to go around finding things called lums 
 and destroy cages to get to 100% of the game. And it'll be awhile to find those unless you look 
 at an faq. The graphics are great. The graphics are gamecube quality. Real good. Time to go down 
 a score. The sound is not good at all. Well the voices at least. The voices are bad. The voice 
 overs aren't even english. They're speaking gibberish. Now this game is hard. Really hard. Espeacially 
 at the end of this level where your riding a walking shell. That's tough. Believe me. But this 
 is still a great game port. Check it out. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GamerPlayer914
Rating: 5.7
Date: Dec 22, 2005 7:58 pm PT
Review:  Even with no arms and no legs, Rayman is one of the most recognizable videogame characters around 
 the world. The fearless and friendly Rayman heroically arrives on the Nintendo DS to defeat the 
 pirate terror that has enslaved his world. Players will assume the role of Rayman and travel through 
 magical worlds with surreal landscapes and gorgeous eye-popping 3D graphics. The Rayman series 
 is well known for its diverse gameplay. In Rayman DS, the limbless hero can run, jump, ski, swim 
 and fly with his helicopter hair. Rayman can also tame objects and devices in his world to surf 
 on lava, ride whirlwinds and fly on a rocket.
  
  Race and battle through 45 intricately designed areas. 
  
  * Explore waterfalls, deep sea caves, 
 and pirate hideouts rendered in rich 3D. 
  
  * Monitor your progress, track your lums, and keep an eye on Raymans health on the interactive 
 bottom screen of your DS.
  
  But the game gets boarding. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pimpactor
Rating: 3.8
Date: Dec 7, 2005 4:25 pm PT
Review:  i baught this game thinking of all the great rayman games for the ps2. but when i wasted my thirty 
 dollars, i was fulyl dissapointed! the graphics trully suck on this game, and the story is really 
 gay and pretty much stupid. the camera angles suck! it is so hard because off all the hard camera 
 angles, i mean if your really bored then play it but if you have a life you wont! you would think 
 that the ubisoft people would want to make a good game with good graphiocs but aparently tey want 
 us to waste our money. PLEASE DO ME A GREAT BIG FAVOR AND JUST DONT BUY THIS GAME! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: copperlover
Rating: 5.8
Date: Dec 2, 2005 4:22 pm PT
Review:  I loved Rayman 2. Not so much for Rayman DS. This game is one of the Ds firsts that nobody really 
 liked (hint, hint me) . Now that I have played games such as Castelvania I feel very sorry for the 
 people at Ubisoft for trying to make a good port. The game is based around rayman trying to find 
 1000 lums (preety much immposible) , Finding four masks of poluris (or whatever his name is I can 
 never get it right) , and trying to find globox. I hated the story and the graphics and gameplay 
 stunk. The N64 game was great, this game however is filled with frustration mostly graphicly. I 
 would say chack your bargin bins people. See ya! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MrCHUP0N
Rating: 4.8
Date: Jan 9, 2006 10:30 am PT
Review:  [This review appears originally on Trigames. NET]
  
  Rayman 2 was one of the absolute finest 3D platformers on any and every system it came out on (and 
 it came out almost quite literally on every system at the time) . Making its mark on the N64, Dreamcast, 
 the PC, later the PS2 and even the PSone, Ubisoft's limbless wonder gave gamers a wholesome, polished 
 experience almost unmatched by any 3D platformer that didn't bear the Mario name.
  
  Switch gears from hardware to software. The Nintendo DS launch was one of the absolute worst launches 
 of any hyped up and eventually successful system. Its best game was a port of a 10-year-old game 
 - mind you, a very well done port of a revolutionary game - but a port nonetheless, and without 
 the luxury of the control mechanism that made it so revolutionary (an analog stick) . From November 
 to March, before Wario Ware and Yoshi's Touch and Go! came stateside, the DS was dying for a hit. 
 But even when they came along, this wasn't enough to satiate the hungry DS owners clamoring for 
 some sustenance.
  
  So what did Ubisoft do to help amend this? Make a port of one of its best N64 games, a 3D platformer, 
 and without the luxury of an analog stick. Except in contrast to Super Mario 64 DS, it wasn't very 
 well done at all.
  
  "Ray the Great"
  
  Rayman 2: The Great Escape consists entirely of 3D platforming which means lots of jumping, lots 
 of switch hitting and area exploration, and lots of collecting. Your task is to collect as many 
 Lums - or globes of energy - as possible, or just enough to open portals and advance to the next 
 stage. Throughout, you'll gather special Lums that give Rayman additional powers - such as the 
 ability to swing Bionic-Commando style from special rings.
  
  The core gameplay mechanics and goals are intact here, but the way in which they're executed is 
 simply sad, really. If you remember gaming mags from 1999, you may remember ads for Rayman 2 featuring 
 "Ray the Great". It was a cutout of a slovenly, overweight dude in his boxers and a wifebeater, 
 in a stilted running pose, and I think the idea was - if I remember correctly - that this guy, 
 "Ray", was a shoddy cheap and incompetent attempt to be Rayman 2: The Great Escape. If I'm correct, 
 Rayman DS is basically like Ray the Great without the wifebeater - a shoddy, cheap and incompetent 
 attempt to recreate the beauty that Rayman 2 had to offer.
  
  "Rayman DS: D-pad Sucks"
  
  It's very possible that, while Mario 64 DS was done very well, some of you were still offended 
 by the lack of true analog control. I would claim that the atrocity that was the thumb-shoe analog 
 control in Mario 64 DS was mitigated by the fact that the d-pad control wasn't that bad. In fact, 
 Nintendo did a commendable job in making the movement more adaptable to d-pad conventions.
  
  No such commendable jobs were done for Rayman DS, however. When you press on the d-pad, there's 
 an ever-so-slight delay between your push and Rayman's actual response. Given that this is a 3D 
 game with many a precarious edge to avoid falling off of, you'll find trying to navigate narrow 
 beams and ledges a chore of unfathomable proportions. To be fair, I loaded up Rayman DS on my PC 
 and tried using the d-pad on my gamepad and found that this precise problem existed on that version 
 too. I would press on the d-pad and watch as Rayman took his time in responding to my commands. 
 However, the PC version - as well as all the other console versions - controlled fine with an analog 
 stick, which as we know, the DS doesn't have.
  
  It does have analog thumb-shoe control, just like Mario 64 DS. In fact, it's even done a bit better 
 than Mario 64. The area used for analog movement on the touch screen is fixed in one spot that 
 you can choose in the configuration screen, which means that it doesn't move along with your thumb 
 if you reach too far. In Mario, the moving bullseye resulted in the damned thing following you 
 every time your thumb slipped even the slightest bit out of range, and thus when you tried to change 
 direction, Mario swiveled around in a way you'd never expect because the bullseye was in a different 
 place than you thought it was. The fixed "stick" in Rayman works better; as long as you're cognizant 
 of the general position of your thumb on the touch screen, you'll be fine.
  
  Given that, it's still no proper way to control a fully 3D platforming game. Tactile feedback for 
 precision movement is simply necessary to have a coherent gaming experience. Surprisingly in many 
 cases, the thumb shoe control worked much better than the d-pad if you were running down a mostly 
 straight path with very light turns, even a narrow one. It just takes a bit of getting used to 
 to know how to adjust your thumb. But anything windy or curvy, or platform jumps requiring direction 
 changes while in midair? Forget it. Neither the thumb shoe nor the d-pad works well. It's a shame 
 because Rayman 2 was one of those platformers that controlled so elegantly such that running and 
 jumping between platforms and ledges required little to no thought.
  
  "Rayman DS: Dithered Scenery"
  
  Next on the laundry list of things that Rayman DS royally 
 futzed up during the port process is the visual presentation. Rayman 2 looked great on every system 
 it came out on, even the PSone. It had a steady framerate and bright colors that brought out a 
 great whimsical Burton-esque art style. The DS version has... well... the art style. Taken on a 
 screenshot and absolute level, yes, the game looks halfway decent for a rushed DS game. You can 
 clearly make out Rayman and the original backgrounds from the source material.
  
  But taken on a relative level, relative to what Rayman 2 should look like and relative to what 
 the DS is capable of, Rayman 2 looks downright awful. First off, the entire game looks like someone 
 closed the blinds everywhere. The bright visibility from the console and PC versions is totally 
 gone. It's not entirely hard to see, per se, but on a comfort level basis it just doesn't feel 
 right to look at.
  
  Secondly, the whole damned thing is so framey. In the best cases, it looks like it tops out at 
 just under 30. It more than often goes down enough to jar your eyes when you're trying to focus 
 on making that jump or dodging that laser. Given that it's a platformer and inherently a slower-paced 
 game than a full-out FPS, it's not as much a question of playability as it is of comfort. It's 
 simply too distracting.
  
  Thirdly, everything is dithered and grainy. It could be anything from the attempt to match the 
 resolution of the source material to the DS screen's lower pixel count, or that the color pallette 
 wasn't fully used, but whatever the case may be, the entire thing looks rushed from a detail standpoint.
 
  
  Given, Rayman 2 was a better looking game than Mario 64, but considering how much the DS version 
 of Mario 64 was cleaned up significantly, it's puzzling why Rayman DS doesn't at least attempt 
 to clean up some of the mess. I'm convinced that the DS can do better than this, especially given 
 what I've seen in recent months.
  
  "Rayman DS: Decent Sound"
  
  I guess the sound fares the best in the conversion over. Some of the samples are a bit dumbed down, 
 both from the music and the voice perspectives, but in general most of it is far more intact than 
 everything else in the game, from the little fake Rayman-speak to the haunting Elfman-like melodies 
 that permeate through the game's environments.
  
  In fact, the sound is actually very satisfactory - at least in relation to the rest of the game. 
 The tunes ring through the DS' stereo speakers and stay very close to the source material in terms 
 of quality. Maybe it echoes a little less, perhaps it's a bit more tinny, and just overall not 
 as rich, but all told it still does the original music justice. It's the only thing that truly 
 makes me remember what a joy the game was to play on the bigger screens.
  
  The sound effects suffer the same negatives - the compression for the sound files is subtle but 
 noticeable. Again, though, they do the original justice. I didn't notice a drop in the amount of 
 sound samples that made it through - Rayman himself sounds as active as ever, yelping and grunting 
 as he jumps from platform to platform and rescuing those encaged. All the Rayman-speak during cutscenes 
 is here in full force as well and sounds the same as the original, without missing any of the variety 
 in the dialogue. (Believe it or not it's possible to remember what that gibberish sounds like even 
 though it's all fake.)
  
  "Rayman DS: Dopey Screens"
  
  At the end of the day, you've got a product that makes poor use of both screens. The gameplay screen, 
 as you know, displays some atrociously dumbed down visuals from the original game, and it's just 
 sad to look at. As for the bottom screen, I've given up on trying to convince myself that touch-screen 
 analog "emulation" is good enough to play a 3D platformer with.
  
  Furthermore, Ubisoft didn't even so much as include a map - the easiest thing that can enhance 
 the playability of a 3D platformer on the DS. Especially given the fact that the camera control 
 is handled poorly in this game (you hold down a button while pressing left or right icons on the 
 touch screen, effectively making it too difficult to run and rotate the camera simultaneously) , 
 a map really would have helped navigation efforts. But we're not even given that - just analog 
 emulation and a purplish background and some menial stats, like lives left. Where's the effort 
 here?
  
  "Rayman DS: Disappointment Supreme"
  
  If all we were going to get was a straight up port of Rayman 2, Ubisoft and developer DC Studios 
 really should have expended more effort in bringing this game to life. The game deserves more justice 
 than what we have, and gamers deserve a better version of the game than what is presented. I'm 
 fully confident that Ubisoft has the headroom to create good ports, and I'm also fully confident 
 that the DS' hardware is so much more capable than what was shown off by Rayman DS.
  
  If you really, really want to have Rayman 2 on the go, or have never ever played Rayman 2 in your 
 life before, the DS version isn't going to fully satisfy. For those in the former category, either 
 understand that this version is totally NOT representative of what glory the original game has 
 to offer, or just admit that for right now no decent 3D portable version of Rayman 2 exists yet. 
 For those in the latter category, you'd be better served by finding a dusty old copy for any of 
 the home consoles or the PC.
  
  The bottom line with Rayman DS is this. As brilliant as Rayman 2: The Great Escape was, its port 
 - Rayman DS - is the polar opposite: every bit as dull. This is absolutely not the version to get, 
 I did a disservice to my wallet and self-esteem by purchasing it, and I'd be doing you a great 
 disservice by recommending this to you. Stay away from it. Stay far away from it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ariel_king
Rating: 8.9
Date: Nov 16, 2005 9:59 pm PT
Review:  This game is like rayman 2 for the PC but still is it a really fun game for the nintendo ds.
  
  Gameplay: Like the second game for the PC, you need to gain some power and defete your enemies. 
 You don't really use the pen but it is a really fun game.
  
  Graphics: The graphics are great. Rayman looks better than ever and the areas are fantastic.
 
  
  Sound: The same sound as the second Rayman game for the PC.
  
  Value: You can play hours and hours trying to finish the game. But still I wish for an online feature 
 for the next titles.
  
  Reviewer's tilt: Overall this game is awsome and you should definitely buy this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Cool_Grant
Rating: 6.5
Date: Nov 13, 2005 3:41 pm PT
Review:  Rayman DS is the nintendo 64 version compacted into a tiny game card that plays well and looks 
 pretty good, but controls might throw people off.
  The graphics in this game are good. Just good. It can be blocky, and very jumpy, but it is still 
 playable.
  The gameplay sort of drags a bit. Rayman can be very hard to control, and getting the camera right 
 can be hard.
  The sound is just right. It has the music, sound effects, and everything else to make an RPG.
 
  Once you finish the game, you can go back and get a 100% or maybe you don't want too. 
  Rayman is an alright game, it could have been better, but its not bad at all, check it out. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: U_Never_Know
Rating: 8.1
Date: Nov 3, 2005 12:28 am PT
Review:  I remember Rayman 2: The Great Escape on the Nintendo 64. It was one of the greatest platformers 
 of its time and considered to be a classic among many gamers. We awaited the port of Rayman 2 for 
 Nintendo's new hand-held.
  
  Gameplay:
  Unfortunately, the port doesn't come without flaws. The camera often falls behind or gets stuck 
 behind objects, and the game's color sometimes leaves you to fall into ditches you could not see.
 
  
  However, most of the great points that the N64 version carried are brought over to the DS port, 
 making Rayman DS a great game for a DS owner.
  
  Graphics:
  Another category where flaws were picked up. The DS port has many graphical issues, including framerate 
 and choppiness. Although it does show the DS's capabilities, it didn't have to have as many flaws 
 as it does.
  
  Sound:
  The great sound effects are still present, along with the original voice acting and music. Gamers 
 will be satisfied in this category.
  
  Value:
  Aside from the game's fun factor, there were quite a few "lums" you must pick up to completely 
 finish the game. Unfortunately, no new game modes were added to the port, leaving the replay value 
 a little lower than it could have been.
  
  The N64 version of Rayman will forever be a classic, but its port will most likely be forgotten 
 within a year. Don't mistake my words, though, Rayman DS is still a worthy purchase, and still 
 a great game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Kev3331
Rating: 7
Date: Nov 1, 2005 7:00 pm PT
Review:  Nintendo are legends in platforming action, italien plumber anyone? And while most will be putting 
 mario 64 ds in their shiney new systems there is some of the most solid platforming action around 
 in the form of rayman. 
  Its got some excellent level design, loveable characters, nice graphics and overall top notch gameplay 
 but its also got a questionable framerate, muddy colouring and NO DS SPECIFIC FEATURES!!!
  The touch screen control is a decent effort but where are the mini games, lower screen map, multiplayer 
 even? Its a bare bones port that has so much unrealised potential. However if u want a darker take 
 on mario and can overlook some flaws there's a lot of fun to be had here. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Lukanot
Rating: 6.9
Date: Jul 30, 2005 7:34 pm PT
Review:  Rayman DS is abit of a disapointing game. Rayman DS is a port from the game Rayman 2 which came 
 out for the PS, N64, Dreamcast and PC. Rayman 2 was a great game. Sadly Rayman DS isn't as good 
 as the original.
  First of all the controls are not that good. Ryman DS hardly uses the touch screen at all except 
 for moving around. Moving around using the touch screen is much more accurate and precise than 
 using the D pad. Using the D pad is very inaccurate and feels akward. The camera angles are also 
 very annoying. One good thing about the camera angles though is that when you fight an enemy and 
 you press R the camera will automatically lock on to that enemy.
  Despite the dodgy controls Rayman DS has some acceptable graphics. Its a 3D game which is good. 
 Some of the pixels are noticable but you can put this aside. Overall the graphics are OK.
  The sound is much more quiet than other DS games. This makes the DS feel weaker. But the sound 
 effects themselves are great. You can hear the tropical birds singing and the waterfalls pouring. 
 In a way the setting of the game is quite relaxing beacuse of the sounds.
  Rayman DS has alot of levels. Its a very lengthy game which will keep you playing for some time. 
 You'll get alot for your money with Rayman DS.
  Rayman DS doesn't live up to the standards of Mario 64 DS but its a decent platformer with bad 
 controls and gameplay, respectable graphics, OK sound and great replay value. Rayman DS is certainly 
 not one of the great games out there but its alright.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Se_BBB_e
Rating: 7.4
Date: Jul 25, 2005 12:13 pm PT
Review:  This is an underrated game. The graphics are not dark and murky, they are just right and they have 
 a lot of detail. For example, there is a huge forest with trees, leeves and creatures. The environments 
 are many and varied. Many official reviews also said the framerate was bad. It isn't. There are 
 some minor drops, but they are rare and only last for short whiles.
  
  You'll meet many funny creatures and they all talk this funny gibberish language. The whole storyline 
 is good and full of humor. There are many short cutscenes, which I think is very good. They don't 
 distract you too much, but they are there, like small rewards for completing various tasks.
  
  The touch screen is used for practically nothing, and that's probably this game's weakest point. 
 You can use it to control your character (it works better than in SM64DS) , but it's much easier 
 to use the d-pad. After a while, the d-pad will give you an acceptable control over your character, 
 but not much more.
  
  The sound effects are clear, natural and varied and the music fits very well with the feel of the 
 game. The volume is slightly lower than some other DS games, but nothing you'll notice too much.
 
  
  If you like platform games, I suggest you get this game. Although it has some obvious flaws, the 
 things they did right really works perfect, like level and character design. And in the end, this 
 is a quite difficult but very, very fun and enjoyable game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: erikthorsen
Rating: 7.7
Date: Jul 6, 2005 3:31 pm PT
Review:  This is my review for Ubisofts Rayman DS, essentaly a remake of rayman 2: The great escape originaly 
 released for the nintendo 64, ps2 and pc, this is obisly the ds version and in some way its better 
 then rayman 3 and the previously released rayman 2 versions.
  
  Gameplay: The basic gameplay of rayman and many other platform games, so if you playd rayman before 
 you now whats this is about, on the other hand if you never playd rayman before you will get into 
 this quite fast, and just go on and have fun.
  
  Grafics: The enviroments and textures looks quite good, but some things just pop in when you close 
 in, in other words the draw distance isent perfect, but its acceptable overall.
  
  Sound: The voice-overs sound like some languge from a fatasy world (witch it proberbly is to) And 
 for some reason i like that much better then the real english voise in rayman 3.
  The music is basicly good and and the sound quility overall is acceptable.
  
  Control, basic 
 controls are ok, but the touch-screen is prakticly useless (unnless your lefthanded that is) and 
 the camera sometimes suck, making controls a litle clunky here and there but overall its isen't 
 bad either.
  
  Overall: This is a all in all good remake of a realy great game, while some aspects have aged better 
 then other and the controls should have been a litle bit tighter, enghouf has been done rigth to 
 make is a good port of rayman 2 and new players will surely find much to like here to, but don't 
 expect innovative gamplay/controls couse you wont find that here. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Spike_Cannon
Rating: 5.9
Date: Jul 2, 2005 6:12 pm PT
Review:  Rayman DS is one of those games that are on the borderline between being fun, to being incredibly 
 frustrating. This is one for those who have patients.
  
  Rayman himself is a pretty agile character. He can jump, swing, climb and even hover with his little 
 cool helicopter-ears, and hell need all of them to go through the levels. Think of them as an 
 obstacle course, a varied obstacle course. There are some levels you will like and some you will 
 loath. One of my many favourites is where you have to glide down a particular area via hanging 
 from a rail, kind of like being on a single track roller coaster. Then there are ones I hate, like 
 the one where you have to pilot a ship through an area and there are four caves, North, South, 
 East and West, where you have to rescue a friends babies. Youd often find yourself doing the levels 
 again and again and again. Another thing thats difficult is that you could get lost in the process. 
 Yeah, theres no map in the game from which I have seen.
  
  Fighting is another difficult task to do in the game, too. It is a little easier with a manual 
 targeting lock, but if your enemy is faster than you are then theres no absolute point. The camera 
 is also a pain and the graphics can be hard to make out. 
  
  However, there are some pretty good boss fights and if your mission is to collect all of the lums, 
 then good luck to you cause you will need it. A pretty average game, nothing special. But its 
 better than some others out there.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: mik19
Rating: 7.3
Date: Jun 13, 2005 1:11 pm PT
Review:  I like this game. How can anyone hate it. ( Unless youre a stubborn PSP fan and any game that is 
 good you hate on the DS.) The Gameplay was good. The Graphics were o. k. And the controls were good. 
 (Unless you r used to playing Super MArio 64 Ds. Which happened to me, but youlle get use to it. 
 Sometimes the camera view gets to u, and you end up falling in the lava or something else the makes 
 you die. It is fun when youre bored. But when you have something else to do don't waste ur time 
 on it. I thought the game was average and if you beat Mario 64 or u have no other game to buy get 
 this one. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: latin_boi
Rating: 7.5
Date: May 31, 2005 5:16 pm PT
Review:  Rayman 2: The Great Escape was an instant Nintendo 64 classic. The DS version looked just the same. 
 Unfortunately, this doesn't live up to the expectations set by the original. My biggest problem 
 with the game is how it plays all together. All the action happens on the top screen, and only 
 your stats appear on the touch screen. Also, the game suggests you use the stylus to move Rayman, 
 but it gets too complicated to press all the buttons and control him at the same time. Also, the 
 game sports a terrible camera. Camera angles that make it hard to manuver, and also rapid camera 
 angle changes make the game a stressful effort to complete each level. The graphics to me look 
 a little more rough than the N64 for some reason. There seem to be more glitches and graphical 
 problems, but the graphics on the whole are not the DS's worst. My second big problem is the sound. 
 No, the game has great music, and funny voice acting, but the sound altogether is so very dim. 
 I can't play while someone else is watching TV, or I won't hear a thing. The game and story make 
 the game great, but each little glitch or problem take away from the overall experience. This game 
 is good, but it could have been so much better with a little more time. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: btnheazy03
Rating: 5.2
Date: Apr 25, 2005 7:10 am PT
Review:  In a nutshell, with Rayman DS, 5% of the time you're having fun, 5% of the time you're enjoying 
 the good graphics, 90% of the time you're presented with inexcusable frustration that completely 
 destroys the other ten percent.
  
  It saddens me as to how Rayman DS could have been a much, much better game than this smoldering 
 crater of a game, let alone realize that people were actually paid money to assure this game's 
 "quality" and integrity. I miss the good ol' days of PS1 Rayman, with imaginative and memorable 
 character and environment design, with challenging, but enjoyable gameplay ...
  
  What makes the maddening (in a bad way) gameplay even MORE maddening is the control scheme. why 
 ubisoft went with a static virtual analog control, rather than Super Mario 64 DS's superb dynamic 
 virtual analog control. So instead of re-training myself to become accustomed with an awkward control 
 scheme, I simply opted for the more direct, but obviously less precise digital pad.
  
  The final portion of this game is basically the perfect summation of Rayman DS, which is nail-biting 
 anger and rage-filled game time. It amazes me how Ubisoft's quality assurance team OK'd this title 
 to have the gold copy published by the factory, let alone have Ubisoft suits green-light this title 
 in the first place. It's a bug-filled foray into the adventure genre, chock full of sub-par gameplay 
 with generic and forgettable characters.
  
  If Ubisoft hopes to have the Rayman franchise reach the astronomical success the Mario franchise 
 has achieved (which it obviously "borrowed" several elements from) , then they have to stop making 
 the game's setting cutesy and generic kid stuff mixed in with patience-testing, infuriating gameplay. 
 But for now, stay far, far away from this sad excuse of a game as you would the black plague
  
  Single-Word Review: UNPOLISHED 
::::::

::::::
UserName: zaxxmom
Rating: 6.6
Date: Apr 23, 2005 8:54 pm PT
Review:  Rayman DS is basically Rayman 2 slapped onto the DS with no extras. If you're a fan of the original, 
 you will be literally disappointed by the graphic desplay and how the game runs.
  
  The gameplay is the same as the original. Go from world to world, collect powers, kill bad guys, 
 and ride rockets. Although you do the same thing as the original version (literally) , it is much 
 harder due to the inresponsive controls. It takes the controller pad takes a full second to understand 
 a direction contol, believe me, I timed it. Because of this, you will be constantly frustrated 
 due to techical difficulties. The lock-on system is buggy, and occasionally it won't even lock 
 onto your opponent. There are camera problems as well. Sometimes the camera will go in front of 
 Rayman, or will change at the last minute when you are trying to pull yourself up off a ledge, 
 killing you instantly. There are slowdowns in this game too, mostly when you are swinging or using 
 your hair-chopper.
  
  Let's not forget the graphics. I'm sorry but this game looks like crap compared to its N64 counter 
 part. There are tons of choppy environment desplays, and sometimes eye effects will be off taget. 
 As in there eyes are in one place and the effect is taking place on the side of it's face.
  
  The sounds are exactly the same, nothing new.
  
  Trust me, this game is not worth picking 
 up. If you own the N64 version, just keep that; it looks better and plays better. If only they 
 had delayed it to fix the bugs... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: JesusDude4ever
Rating: 7.4
Date: Apr 21, 2005 12:25 am PT
Review:  So I sat with my DS in my lap saying, "Man I wish this system had a game as good as Mario." To 
 my surprise, I learned that it did! Rayman DS was coming out soon, and I just had to own it. 
 
  
  The hype over this game was immense at first, but died off quickly. Why you ask? Simple. This game 
 lacks everything except for gameplay. Let's go over the details.....
  
  Control - Either you use the D-pad to control rayman, or you use the touch screen as an analog 
 stick. Seem simple? Not quite. For one, all the buttons you use for shooting and the camera are 
 on the right side of the system. For us who are right handed, it is very unnatural to hold the 
 stylus in our left hand. Even though you can adjust where the analog is located on the bottom screen, 
 it doesn't help any. Sometimes you have to move and shoot at the same time. Your'e probably saying, 
 just use the D-pad. Well its not that simple. Pushing it diagonally doesn't work much in this game. 
 It's hard to maneuver him where you want to. Plus, the D-pad only makes him run, while the touch 
 analog makes him walk faster or slower, depending on how far you push it. So in the end, you'll 
 be using the thumbstrap with your left hand curled under the DS. And before I forget, be prepared 
 to wait about 1 second before Rayman responds by moving to your button imput.
  
  Graphics - Ok, graphics don't make a game, I admit. But they sure do make you want to play a game 
 more or less. These graphics should have been better, but the texture just doesn't look right, 
 and everything looks blocky. It drove me crazy at first, but your eyes will eventually adjust to 
 it.
  
  Sound - It's way too bland in many cases. It has almost no variety.
  
  Besides all of that, the gameplay kicks serious butt. 4 masks to collect and over like 50 levels, 
 this game will entertain you for hours. All you need is patience, and a will to win. Overall, this 
 is a great platformer that is worth every penny.
  
  Warning : If you have played Rayman 2, I don't recommend this game. Nothing has changed.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: lunarmanx
Rating: 9.6
Date: Apr 17, 2005 2:30 pm PT
Review:  I don't know why so many people are saying this game is not good, it's great if you ask me. The 
 graphics are really awesome, everything looks very detailed and good. 
  
  The gameplay of this game is also very good. The only problem i'd say is with the controls. If 
 your using the D-Pad to move around then you'll notice at first when you press the button, that 
 it doesn't respond right away. It's not much of a problem once you get used to it, and if your 
 one of those people who care way to much about this type of thing, then you can use the analog 
 for this game. It works very well, you position the little joystick wherever you want on the screen, 
 then slip on the thumb strap, and start using it.
  
  The sounds in this game arent really anything that good. There are some pretty nice songs in this, 
 but most of it is just pretty basic. You have the option to turn the sound, or sound effects off, 
 but i prefer them on.
  
  This game is currently set at a good price, not like many other DS games that come out at a high 
 price, then you buy it, then after a week you see it for a lower price. This game starts off at 
 that lower price.
  
  I would say rent this game first, because i can understand how some things in this game might not 
 be to some peoples likings. But if your in the market for a new 3-D, awesome DS game, then i'd 
 definitely recommend this. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: no-register
Rating: 5.6
Date: Apr 8, 2005 2:03 pm PT
Review:  The "fanboys" insist that gamespot and the like are biased against the DS -- but of the games I've 
 played, the mediocre scores dealt were quite fitting. I picked it up a few weeks ago with a little 
 hope that it would be something like SM64. An enjoyable trip back -- resurrection of a classic title 
 in convenient, portable form 
  
  The game, however, is absolutely awful. When they say it's a bit dark, they don't mean a bit dark 
 like Castlevania for the GBA was. I mean, it really looks/feels like they video taped the game 
 play and put the recording in the cartridge. The opening screens have greys in place of whites. 
 The only thing that stands out is the bright yellow "press start" text which is in a font you'll 
 see for all the dialogue -- painfully choppy. An attempt at softening the edges would have been a 
 nice touch. 
  
  Color aside, playing this game made me claustrophobic. You really feel like you can't see much 
 and the camera angles are at best mediocre. The only time you can see what you're doing is if you 
 go into first person camera for a look-see. That's no help when you're trying to swing across the 
 roof though.
  
  All of this would have been forgivable if not for the controls. The controls are what I found to 
 be the worst, most counterintuitive aspect of this game. What I loved about SM64 DS were the many 
 control schemes available. After toying around and getting a feel for the system, I ended up settling 
 on using the D-pad for actions and the stylus (with my right hand) for navigation. Worked really 
 well. But with Rayman, you have one set in stone control scheme. If you're going to use the touch 
 screen, you have to do so with your left hand (thumbstrap) -- since the action buttons are assigned 
 exclusively to the A/B/X/Y buttons on your right side. Furthermore, the touch screen has a fixed 
 movement compass -- you can, via the settings, move it around to try to find a place that works 
 well for you -- but you'd better be good at finding that "center" or you'll be sprinting unintentionally 
 into bottomless pits. Using the D-Pad is at least every bit as bad. I found no way to manipulate 
 the controls comfortably -- which made it virtually impossible for me to enjoy the game.
  
  There were a few other annoyances. Another big one for me, was that the instruction manual said 
 you could save and quit at any time via the pause menu. But the "save" and "quit" options talked 
 about in the manual don't exist in the game. The only way to save is to actually get to the finish 
 point of the level you're in. When it comes to a "portable" system, I like to think that starting 
 and stopping frequently is an option. Fortunately, it does take advantage of the DS's sleep mode 
 -- so you can just close it and watch the batteries slowly drain until you have a chance to pick 
 it up again. As a testament to the quality of the production of this game, they also documented 
 the controls wrong -- citing A as jump and B as attack when, in reality, it's quite the opposite.
 
  
  This game is barely playable, let alone enjoyable. I really think that the only case in which people 
 will find enjoyment for it is if they're just -so- desperate for a new bit of software for their 
 DS that they'll play anything. (That was the case for me, but I guess I wasn't desperate enough.) 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: breadstickguy
Rating: 7.9
Date: Apr 6, 2005 7:28 pm PT
Review:  OK, so I love Rayman. I have been playing Rayman games since they first were released. So naturally 
 when I heard that Rayman64 had been ported to the DS I jumped for joy and instantly ran to the 
 store and bought it.
  
  Well, after taking it home and playing it a little, I've changed my opinion a little.
  
  This 
 is a really fun game, but there are some glaring issues with it.
  
  The first is the graphics issue. All the reviews point to this one and i argee on some points. 
 The graphics are lush and beautiful, in general. Once you get down and dirty and really look at 
 them, you will notice they are a little dark. Well the problem with that is that it makes it difficult 
 to see pitfalls and such in the game. I'm on level 3 and I have walked off more ledges than in 
 any other game, cos they blend in. Now this isn't the biggest deal cos you aren't really penalized 
 for it. You might have to redo some of the level, but its ok.
  
  The only other real issue with the game is the controls. They are just awkward. The D-pad is not 
 meant to be used. Its slow, and there is no speed adjustment at all. You can only run at full speed 
 with the pad. The touch screen controls are lightyears above SM:64DS. Once you get used to them 
 you will be running about the levels just as if you had an analog stick. But it takes time and 
 patience to learn the controls. You will die a thousand times on the first few levels learning 
 the controls, so if you don't have that kind of patience, just rent this game.
  
  Other wise its a solid game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Jones
Rating: 9.8
Date: Mar 31, 2005 4:20 am PT
Review:  i just like to say wtf is wrong with u people? i mean this game is one of the best handheld games 
 ive EVER played. the graphics are not only the best graphics for the ds but also to me they are 
 better than any game for the psp so far. the sound i must admit is a little quiet but the music 
 is great and the sounds are fine. this game is great dont listen to those reviewers caus they must 
 have been drunk while reviewing the game. its fine and its kinda sad that no ones gona pick it 
 up but if u do ur gona have a good time. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: AquaMantor
Rating: 8.3
Date: Mar 31, 2005 3:28 am PT
Review:  Note: for my reviews, 5 is average
  
  
  Either I'm crazy or everyone else is, but Rayman 2 is still one of the best games ever. I know 
 that, and nobody can argue with me on it. So what's up with all the hate? Blaming imaginary camera 
 problems? (the camera does NOT shift in the least oportune moments) Or completely unfounded graphical 
 problems? What is up with this? But trust me here, this game is still amazing. Sure, it could use 
 an analog stick, but unlike Mario, it finnally gets touch control right. Of course, it WILL take 
 a while to get used to, just like the stick at first. But at the end, it won't be AS good. But 
 you'll still think of it as the best substitute possible.
  
  The original Rayman 2 was the best platformer ever made. And now it's portable! I'm getting giddy 
 all over again! Ahem, anyway, like I said before, the game's main problem is that it still really 
 doesn't manage to substitute for the analog stick, and the learning curve set above really isn't 
 the curve for the game in general, but the controls. It will take a long time for expierienced 
 3D gamers to accept this. But if they practice with it, they will be rewarded with much more precise 
 control than a D-pad in the later levels.
  
  For those of you who have never been blessed with the power of limblessness. Yes, I hold a very 
 very strong opinion that this game, or at least the previous versions of it, is the best platformer 
 ever. From the moment you start playing, just how surreal the game is will hit you like a lead 
 can. In the first few moments, you'll see robot pirates that look like steam engines, a blue, overweight, 
 walking-whale-like creature that seems to have some kind of Native American origins (Globox) . And 
 the general absence of arms and legs. This world has a very very strong charm to it. A very surreal 
 and comedic sense of beauty. The near-perfect level design helps in this. And the great motivation 
 to unlock new levels and learn more about the world presents an excellent reason to collect yellow 
 lums. (fairy like creatures that are sort of like coins in a mario game) If you like platformers, 
 you'll go insane for missing this one the first few times. It's probably best just to buy the game 
 now, with a low price point and portability.
  
  So no matter what anyone says, I believe that Rayman DS is a great port of a masterpiece. I seriously 
 don't understand what's so wrong with it, I'm confused here, I really am. But hey, I'm GREATLY 
 enjoying the game. And the reviewers who gave it bad scores probably aren't. But if the whole world 
 thinks that this game stinks so much, my review could be misguiding. I still have trouble believing 
 that all the hate is for no reason, you should probably play this game before you buy it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: B-bad
Rating: 7.3
Date: Mar 30, 2005 3:42 am PT
Review:  Rayman is fun and if you played the N64 version of Rayman 2 you'll be right at home. I just found 
 the game to be fun, and I really did enjoy the story, graphic, characters and gameplay. You do need 
 some time to get use to controlling 3d game with the Dpad, but come on if you played Mario 64DS 
 then you'll get the hang of this one in no time. They also let you use the touch screen for free 
 control but it take time to get use to, it does grow on you quickly. All the classic Rayman abilities 
 are here and they are easy to use with a lock ability for you power shots (nice) . The only problem 
 that I had with the game is the lack of use of both screens meanly I wish there was a map like 
 in Mario, but this is a fun platformer that shouldn't be missed! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DScrazy
Rating: 7
Date: Jan 9, 2005 2:44 am PT
Review:  When I first got this game i was like OMG OMG OMG and now I'm still like OMG OMG OMG. I bought 
 it in the states from k-mart yesterday, and it seems to be a big hit here in the states.
  
  People may be wondering, why is it called rayman? The answer: Not sure. Why wouldn't it be called 
 rayman is also a question be asked more frequently, and the answer, and I quote myself "intelligence 
 on terrorist threats seems to be prosecuting unknown resources in various scripts, especially those 
 after the migration of '66"
  
  It's the best thing I have ever played, ever. It has lots of great features and I'd highly reccomend 
 it to any platform gamers out there. There isn't much to say except the controlling is great and 
 the story is funny. Good game, thumbs up. Buy it. When it comes out in 3 months. :D
  
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
