-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Rayman Raving Rabbids
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/ds/action/rayman4/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 Rabbids.
 Insane soundtrack.
 Rayman's got a decent variety of abilities.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 Controls feel a little off in some situations.
 Unsightly graphics.
 Short adventure without much replay value.
 Level designs get too bogged down by repetition and backtracking.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Mar 30, 2007
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 5.9
Critic Score: 5.8, 13 Review (s)
User Score: 6.4, 125 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Ubisoft
Developer: Ubisoft Bulgaria
Genre: 3D Platformer
Date: Mar 6, 2007
ESRB: Everyone

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
There's a functional, if utterly unremarkable, platformer to be found in Raving Rabbids on the DS. 
 

  Rayman Raving Rabbids for the Nintendo DS has a lot more in common with the Game Boy Advance version 
 of Raving Rabbids than any of its console counterparts. This is a pure and simple side-scrolling 
 platformer with a few touch-screen-oriented minigames sprinkled in -- not a minigame collection, 
 as was the case with all of the console versions of Raving Rabbids. It also must be said that Raving 
 Rabbids for the DS is a rather middling platformer that relies more on repetition and backtracking 
 than it does solid controls or an interesting adventure. Certainly, there is the boon of those 
 creepy, cuddly rabbids to the game's credit, but even they aren't quite enough to pull Rayman's 
 latest DS adventure out of mediocrity.  

          Rayman's back at his old platforming antics in Raving Rabbids for the DS -- pity it's not 
 a better adventure.     

  Like the console and GBA games before it, Raving Rabbids on the DS has Ubisoft's armless and legless 
 hero up against an invasion of brain-dead rabbids. They're rabbitlike creatures with a penchant 
 for self-injuring antics, plungers, and high-pitched screams that are equal parts adorable and 
 frightening. These rabbids are out to take over the world for some reason, and you have to stop 
 them by traveling through a series of stages, collecting trophies and finding hidden exits as you 
 go. It's not much of a setup, and the rabbids don't get nearly enough screen time here. Occasionally 
 they pop up to fight you, and you'll get a few moments of silliness with them during the minigames 
 between levels, but that's about it.  

  The gameplay is platforming boilerplate. Rayman can jump, hover in midair, punch enemies, launch 
 glowing projectiles, and gain a few new abilities along the way. Most of these new abilities come 
 from costumes you pick up at various points in the game. Rayman's goth-punk outfit, for instance, 
 lets him generate bombs at specific stations within a stage, which can then be tossed at impassible 
 barriers. His grandma outfit lets him create huge boulders for some inexplicable reason, which 
 can then be pushed along to the proper spot and used as a platform to reach areas too high to access 
 otherwise. The trick with the costumes is that there are frequently multiple paths to explore within 
 a stage, and some of them can't be accessed until you have one or another of these abilities. However, 
 this isn't a case where you end up crossing all the paths in one sitting. You'll sometimes find 
 an exit and then have to go back to that level later with your new ability to trek through the 
 new path. And even when you do beat an entire level in one shot, you still tend to cross the same 
 ground multiple times to get to the end, which feels more than a bit like an artificial lengthening 
 process for an otherwise fairly short game.  

  The backtracking and repetitive nature of the level designs might be forgivable were the gameplay 
 more inventive or enjoyable, but none of that is the case. The basic platforming mechanics are 
 sound, but the jump controls are overly loose and in some situations unwieldy. There are instances 
 where you'll hold down the jump button at the very edge of a cliff and still undershoot a ledge 
 that's very close by. Trying to grab hold of monkey bars to swing across also sometimes doesn't 
 work. Though you won't run into issues like this on a constant basis, they happen enough to be 
 annoying.  

  When you're not controlling Rayman directly, you're indirectly controlling him in some scrolling 
 levels. In these sequences, Rayman is constantly moving forward, and you're using the touch screen 
 to keep his path clear. Usually this just involves tapping a launch pad to send him up to a nearby 
 ledge or tapping enemies to kill them. However, sometimes you have to use costume-specific abilities 
 to get by. The punk outfit, for example, lets you slice away at chains that hold nearby drawbridges 
 up, or you'll have to freeze water using his chill outfit. These sections of the game are fast-paced 
 and certainly more interesting than the standard platforming bits, but they also suffer from inconsistent 
 controls. There are times where you'll be slicing or tapping away at something and the game just 
 won't respond properly, which inevitably leads to Rayman getting hit.  

  And then there are the minigames. These games appear from time to time as filler, sandwiched between 
 the platforming and scrolling levels. They often only involve solving basic block puzzles or playing 
 a game of whack-a-rabbid, but they're amusing enough (and unlike all the other gameplay sections, 
 the controls work just fine, all the time) . Some of these games can be played separately in the 
 extras mode, as can some of the scrolling sequences in a time-attack mode. Beyond that, there's 
 some unlockable rabbid artwork and a Catch the Fish minigame that's pretty self-explanatory. However, 
 very few of these extras are worth coming back to after a few looks.  

  Another knock against Raving Rabbids on the DS is that it's not an attractive game in the slightest. 
 The game goes for the whole 2.5D thing, with three-dimensional backgrounds and the side-scrolling 
 gameplay. The problem here is that it all looks just barely above GBA quality. The backgrounds 
 are extremely repetitive, blurry, and bland; characters have limited animations, which are all 
 pretty stiff to boot; the frame rate chugs on a regular basis; and occasional clipping issues and 
 other glitches tend to rear their ugly head as you play. The only saving grace of the game's visuals 
 comes from the minigames and the basic art design. The rabbids are as adorable as ever, and when 
 they appear in short cutscenes or random minigames, there's usually enough wacky stuff going on 
 that it keeps you from focusing on how pixelated and nasty everything looks.  

          Costumes give Rayman some unique powers, though few of them are all that interesting.  
    

  The audio is on the other end of the spectrum. Apart from those goofily pleasing rabbids and their 
 freaky shrieks, the game uses an awesomely bizarre soundtrack that consists of pop tunes sung all 
  Chipmunks  style. Many of these songs appeared in the console versions of the game, including 
 renditions of "Girls Just Wanna Have Fun," "Good Times," and what sounds like a DJ Screw remix-in-reverse 
 version of "Hip Hop Hooray," which pretty much has to be heard to be believed.  

  But an enjoyably oddball soundtrack isn't enough to salvage Raving Rabbids on the DS. While the 
 idea of a new Rayman platformer sounds well and good, this game feels perfunctory and undercooked 
 in most every capacity. It's not pleasant to look at, the gameplay is inconsistent, and the level 
 designs are more dull and repetitive than anything else. It's playable enough for those anxious 
 to get a proper Rayman fix, but once you're done, you'll probably forget you ever played it.   
   
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (5 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: DraugenCP
Rating: 6.5
Date: Aug 6, 2008 12:53 pm PT
Review:  When the Rayman series took such a dramatic turn with the arrival of the multi-platform game 'Rayman 
 Raving Rabbids', there were mixed reactions. The video gaming public in general liked the game 
 for its lightheartedness, the focus on fun, and the great media campaign that was attached to it, 
 while a large part of the Rayman fans were disappointed with the series' departure from the platforming 
 genre. Rayman Raving Rabbids no longer saw the title character appearing as the limbless pirate 
 killer we knew from the first three games, but rather as the centre of a series of mini-games organized 
 by a horde of deranged rabbits, called Rabbids.
  
  The DS version differs from its console counterparts, though. While the concept revolving around 
 the Rabbids is still there, the game is a platformer with some party game elements instead of the 
 other way around. Although technically this game does return to the 2D platforming roots of the 
 franchise (with 3D character- and object models) , it's unlikely to ease the pain of those Rayman 
 fans who were disappointed with the sudden switch their hero made on the home consoles. 
  
  While there is nothing wrong with a good side-scrolling platformer, Rayman Raving Rabbids fails 
 to stand out in nearly every area. From the beginning and onwards, the gameplay defines the term 
 'linear'. Every level involves having to make your way through largely generic areas, beating enemies 
 by either punching them or launching lums (the famous fairies from the Rayman series which have 
 now adapted the function of bullets) at them a few times, and having to find certain items to aid 
 you in your quest. Not only do most of the levels look very much alike, but you'll even have to 
 come back to the same levels quite frequently in order to discover new power-ups, or to unlock 
 branching paths. This would be less of a problem if the levels were remotely graphically impressive, 
 but they're not. Even within the uncomplicated overall layout, the character designs and level 
 tilesets look sloppy and unsharp, and don't push the system's graphical abilities in the slightest.
 
  
  Still the DS version of Rayman Raving Rabbids isn't completely unable to generate the same appeal 
 as the console editions in some parts. The music, for example, is surprisingly enjoyable, with 
 the surf-rock classic Misirlou being included, as well as 'Rabbids versions' of songs such as Hip 
 Hop Hooray and Girls Just Want To Have Fun (which basically means that the vocals are [even more] 
 high-pitched) .
  
  Another nice touch (literally) is the inclusion of some short bonus levels that you play with the 
 DS touch screen. It basically features Rayman running through the level automatically, with the 
 player having to use the special powers he acquired in the normal levels to move certain hazards 
 out of the way before Rayman reaches them. For example, if there's a gap lurking in the distance, 
 you'll have to prevent Rayman from falling in by quickly lowering a bridge using wind force, while 
 enemies blocking your path can be taken care of with the use of fire power. These levels offer 
 a nice little break from this otherwise generic platforming experience, but they don't save the 
 game either as even these bonus levels will get boring after a while. Basically the same goes for 
 a small collection of mini-games that you can unlock as you play through the game.
  
  In conclusion, there are but few elements that try to lift this game beyond anything out of the 
 ordinary. The twisted humour and constant screaming of the ever so adorable Rabbids give the game 
 some of the charm that made the console versions so popular, and the great soundtrack is among 
 the finest the DS has to offer. The overall experience, however, is a typical case of 'been there, 
 done that'. Side-scrolling platformers can still be original and enjoyable if they feature innovative 
 gameplay or an artistically interesting layout, yet Rayman Raving Rabbids offers no such things, 
 bar the relatively cool touch screen levels. Fans of the traditional Rayman games won't have anything 
 to get excited about with this platformer, especially considering Rayman DS, a port of the smash 
 hit Rayman 2, has already made its appearance on the DS. Rayman Raving Rabbids is not a bad or 
 broken game, and can even be enjoyable in some parts, but the overall experience is not impressive 
 enough to make it live up to Rayman's platforming reputation.
  
  
  Report Card:
  + Rabbids!!!
  + soundtrack is nothing short of great
  + touch screen levels are fairly interesting
 
  - uninspired level design
  - way too linear to remain interesting for longer periods of time
  - sloppy graphics
  
  Score:
 
  65% 
::::::

::::::
UserName: atombomb_S93
Rating: 7.2
Date: Apr 11, 2007 5:03 am PT
Review:  this could have been better, in quite a few ways. for one thing, in ds they take away raymans plunger 
 gun! and all of the cool gfame you do in the ps2, they turn into levels with costumes for differnt 
 abilities, and it completely screwed the stoiry line. dont even make me go into the thingabout 
 how you have those weird warthog enemys most of the time instead of rabbits, i wanna kill bunnys, 
 not weirdo pig creatures! never the less, it is still fun. but i still aslo must say, that the 
 grapghics suck crap!!!!!!!!!! and so dose the music. i rest my case! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: awperk12
Rating: 3.3
Date: Apr 7, 2007 9:24 am PT
Review:  The game is extremely repetitive. You do the same things over and over again but with newer powers. 
 It is an easy play and basically takes no skill. I'd say not to ever waste your money on this game. 
 On top of the fact that it was easy, I was quite upset that they called it raving rabbids . I expected 
 it too be something similar to the Wii version but it wasn't even close. There were something like 
 5 or 6 mini-games in this and they sucked. There is next to no replay value in this because there 
 is only one difficulty and few mini-games. Just to add to the disappointment, not that it mattered 
 much but, the graphics were the same or worse than Rayman DS that came out like 2 years ago. Bottom 
 line, buy a real game like New super mario bros or EBA. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: negativenetwork
Rating: 6.7
Date: Mar 22, 2007 2:37 pm PT
Review:  Rayman hits the portable! This is a fun platforner. Better than your average DS game, but nothing 
 worth dying for. When i first sat down to play this it seemed a little roughly done for me. The 
 screens in between the action are mediocre in my opinion. The whole game could have been smoother 
 with more attention payed to the finer detail in the game. However, the actual gameplay was very 
 enjoyable for me. It plays as Rayman in a 3D scenario. The graphics aren't too shabby, but aren't 
 exactly anything mind blowing either. The controls are excellent. The variation in gameplay from 
 normal control to touch screen control is done very well and keeps you changing between the two 
 happily. There are various mini games in between the main story mode that are ok. The DS seems 
 to have exploited all it's avaliable mini games in previous games. Whack a mole etc. is nothing 
 new and this one adds little challenge to the average gamer.
  
  If you're looking for a long lasting game that will have you coming back for more many months after, 
 i doubt this is the right game for you. If you're after some quick and fun DS action give it a 
 go. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: war_monger1983
Rating: 6
Date: Mar 19, 2007 7:22 am PT
Review:  Those of you who stick with Gamespot in a daily basis, have probably heard about one of the Ubisoft's 
 launch titles for the Wii. Rayman Raving Rabbids for the Wii is a very addictive game, with some 
 funny moments, and a nice Mario Party style. But, the best of all, no doubt, the rabbids.
  
  So when I first heard about a DS version, I really though Ubisoft's going to repeat the same 
 formula, with more insane bunnies jumping trough the dual windows of my DS.
  
  But the game is a 3D platformer. The gameplay is by far one of the easier in the system. It's very 
 much like New Super Mario Bros, but with very nice twists like the special suits. The argument 
 is pretty pointless, so you have to just concentrate in just playing the game. Each stage is basically 
 divided in 3 sub-stages. The first is the classic platformer style, with Rayman jumping, hitting 
 and throwing lumings to his hideous enemies. It's very strange at the beggining, not because the 
 gameplay, but for the fact that there are no rabbids in the first stages. They just make cameos 
 from behind and in the lower screen.
  Once you finish the pretty linear stage, in most cases you are notified about ready your stylus 
 and play one of many boring minigames the game had.
  And then, the best of the game. It's what I call the Touch Challenge. It is a course where you 
 don't control Rayman, you control the environment. You have four special suits (Earth, Fire, Wind 
 and Water) that allows to interact with the boulders and enemies. For example, the Earth suit lets 
 you break boulders and move platforms. The Fire suit lets you burn ropes and enemies; The wind 
 suit lets you move platforms with the power by just rubbin' your stylus and the water suit lets 
 you freeze waterfalls.
  In this kind of stage, you have to collect all the trophies in order to unlock new stages and bonus 
 elements. It's by far the reason I didn't score lower this game.
  
  The graphics are not the best in the system, but luckily they aren't the worst. But they're definitevily 
 bad. Ubisfot had great experience in the portable N, so it's no excuse to find a game with graphics 
 compared to a first generation title. Even the original rayman ds have better graphics. About the 
 sound, it's quite funny to hear maddona and pulp fiction at the beggining, but they get boring 
 and repetetive again and again. the critters don't have any sounds at all, except for some rubber 
 duck sound and the rabbid's scream.
  
  Although the game is very short, it has some nice unlockables, like movie-like pictures of the 
 rabbids, and the minigames that you unlock once you play it in the maingame. Apart from that, the 
 game has very little replay value, mainly because it doesn't have any kind of multiplayer support. 
 it would have been very nice to play all of the crappy minigames with your friends.
  
  What it's missing? The rabbids. They simply aren't enough rabbids in this game.
  
  Worth buy? 
 Try to rent it first, or ask a friend to do that. It's really not a good buy.
  
  Good luck with the rabbids... If you manage to find them.
  
  Javier Rivera
  Gamespot Chile 
 (lol) 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
