-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Rayman Raving Rabbids 2
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/ds/action/raymanravingrabbids2/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 Nice touch-screen controls.
 Plenty of crazy rabbits.
 Good single-cart multiplayer options.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 Not enough minigames.
 Structure of the single-player game breeds repetition.
 Minigames are often too simple.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Feb  7, 2008
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 6
Critic Score: 5.6, 8 Review (s)
User Score: 6.9, 122 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Ubisoft
Developer: Ubisoft Paris
Genre: Party
Date: Nov 13, 2007
ESRB: Everyone 10+

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Brutally insane bunnies can be fun, but there aren't enough minigames to keep those in Rayman Raving 
 Rabbids 2 interesting for long. 

  At some point you have to wonder why Ubisoft feels compelled to continue putting the Rayman name 
 on its Raving Rabbids titles. As on other platforms, Rayman Raving Rabbids 2 for the DS barely 
 even features that limbless French guy with the hair, instead focusing almost entirely on those 
 adorably deranged rabbids. If only they had focused instead on providing lots and lots of fun minigames, 
 we might be raving too. As much fun as it is to watch the rabbids twitch, whack one another with 
 hammers, and scream incoherently at the absolute tops of their lungs, the game itself feels a little 
 thin. There simply aren't enough minigames, and what's there is often so simple that it usually 
 doesn't merit revisiting.  

           This particular minigame requires you to yell nonsense into your DS, guaranteeing an empty 
 seat next to you on the bus.      

  Rayman Raving Rabbids 2 operates under the premise that the rabbids, having run roughshod across 
 Rayman's world, have now come to Earth. This means that minigames now occasionally get some regional 
 window dressing, and the single-player adventure mode has you going all Carmen Sandiego, trotting 
 across a world map to play different rabbid-filled minigames. While there's no shortage of rabbids, 
 the game could definitely use a few more minigames. There are six different locations in the game, 
 each with six minigames. Expect plenty of repetition, as the minigames aren't always unique from 
 location to location, and the sixth minigame in every location is always a crude four-button rhythm 
 game featuring rabbid karaoke versions of goofy songs like "Funkytown" and "Smoke on the Water," 
 though instead of playing the songs you just tap buttons to trigger canned sound effects in a rhythmic 
 fashion. The game is structured in such a way that you'll have to play minigames repeatedly in 
 order to advance, as well as to unlock weird extras to dress your bunny up with.  

  That repetition wouldn't be so bad if the minigames were more consistent in quality and a little 
 deeper, though to its credit, Rayman Raving Rabbids 2 fully embraces all of the DS touch-screen 
 functionality, and the simple gameplay is used to prop up some pretty good gags. You'll spit in 
 another rabbid's milk shake while he's not looking; you'll speed-eat sinister-looking chili peppers 
 and use the ensuing flames to rocket yourself into the air; you'll toss another rabbid as far out 
 of a wrestling ring as you can; you'll go inside your rabbid's stomach to help relieve gas; and 
 more. Unfortunately, a lot of the minigames seem to involve a lot of scribbling really fast, or 
 simply matching images as quickly as possible. There are a few minigames that use the mic, which 
 can be fun if you can get past how alternately embarrassing and frustrating they are to play.  
 

  After you beat a minigame in the adventure mode, you can revisit it in the score mode, which generally 
 just offers higher-score requirements. The multiplayer, which can be played locally and includes 
 single- and multicart play, would be more enticing if there were more minigames worth revisiting. 
 You can customize your bunny by mixing and matching costume pieces, as well as by drawing on the 
 bunny itself. For what it's worth, the bunnies look pretty good, and the game's art style does 
 a nice job of blending 2D and 3D elements. On the other hand, the sound consists largely of lo-fi 
 shrieks and squeals that you'll hear over and over.  

  Rayman Raving Rabbids 2 is engaging enough for about an hour, but after you've played all of the 
 minigames once or twice, you'll be done with it. The inclusion of four-player single-cart multiplayer 
 is a nice touch, and it's got the right kind of slapstick attitude, but there's just not enough 
 of a game here to get into.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (6 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: foomf11
Rating: 7
Date: Mar 8, 2009 3:48 pm PT
Review:  I personally like this ds game. It has a lot of flaws, though. For instance, the graphics are REALLY 
 shoddy, the gameplay is sort o' lame, and the storyline is flat. I like the hilarious plot and 
 settings though. I also enjoyed the mini clips. One thing you need to know about his game though, 
 is that it gets old very, very, very quickly. So, buy this game if you enjoy funni short ds games, 
 don't buy it if you think mutant rabbits are annoying, bad graphics bother you too much, or you 
 think a game with a storyline that is flat is evil. Well, that's it for 2day gaming fans. I will 
 write back soon, or i will see ya in gamestop or eb games. (the choice is your, really. I prefer 
 gamestop, though.)  
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sk8more67
Rating: 5
Date: Aug 8, 2008 4:46 pm PT
Review:  This sequal isn't very great for the DS, and actually could have been good as a PSP game instead 
 of a DS game. And it kinda makes you wonder how fast they slapped this game together for the DS, because 
 the Wii version is a lot better. Some of the minigames are funny, but they don't sound like they 
 should. Now, a funny minigame is the second one in the first level. The objective is to make a circle 
 with the stylus, making the carrot you're eating turn into a disgusting liquid, then you let go when 
 the other rabbit is not looking, to spit into his milkshake. The other rabbit then drinks it, and 
 then falls off his chair and orders another one. Man, these guys are even more stupid than I thought. Something 
 really cool is the band minigames. You touch the drum squares which act as insturments playing with 
 the songs. The songs include Smoke on the Water-Deep Purple, and Funkeytown (I can't remember the 
 band name.) . This only has twenty five minigames, so you're not garunteed a great for your money, however 
 a redeaming quality is the rabbid creator. You get to have a rabbid and collect items by beating 
 minigames. You can then use them to custimize your rabbid, and four of the items are ones that you 
 can play with. Three of them are the microphone (you talk into it, and then it repeats what you said) , the 
 drum set (you hit it with your stylus with a variety of sounds) , and the boxing gloves (you beat up 
 the rabbid, need I say more?) . This game is okay, but I wouldn't recommend it to a friend, an enemy 
 however, I would easily recommend it.
  
  -Sk8more67 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ShawnEffect_58
Rating: 1
Date: Jun 19, 2008 10:19 am PT
Review:  The worst DS game I have played in my life. Seriously. All the mini-games are very boring and dull. 
 This game is so repetitive. All this game does is take time out of your life that you will never 
 get back. I mean, come on! This isn't even Rayman anymore! PLEASE GIVE US CLASSIC RAYMAN BACK!!!! How 
 can they even call this rayman?! I don't think it even has rayman on the box art! Lets try and get 
 this up to 800 characters: this game sux this game sux this game sux this game sux this game sux 
 this game sux this game sux this game sux this game sux this game sux this game sux this game sux 
 this game sux this game sux this game sux this game sux this game sux this game sux this game sux 
 this game sux this game sux this game sux this game sux this game sux this game sux this game sux 
 this game sux this game sux this game sux this game sux this game sux this game sux this game sux 
 this game sux this game sux this game sux this game sux this game sux this game sux this game sux 
 this game sux this game sux this game sux this game sux this game sux this game sux this game sux 
 this game sux this game sux this game sux this game sux this game sux this game sux this game sux 
 this game sux this game sux this game sux this game sux this game sux this game sux this game sux 
 this game sux this game sux this game sux this game sux this game sux this game sux this game sux 
 this game sux this game sux this game sux this game sux this game sux this game sux this game sux 
 this game sux 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tikiz
Rating: 8
Date: Jan 4, 2008 11:58 am PT
Review:  I didn't expect this game to be fun, but it actually is. There are lot's of minigames and areas. 
 HOWEVER, adventure mode is really short and can be beaten in a few hours. Although there's a score 
 mode to keep the fun going for longer.
  
  You can collect clothes for your Rabbids, and there are some funny things. You can also design 
 your background and color your Rabbid. There's no zoom option for either of these things however, 
 which can make it frusturating.
  
  The graphics aren't the best on the DS, but they're overall pretty good. The Stylus controls are 
 pretty good, although sometimes frusturating. The cinematics are pretty lame, but can be funny 
 too. 
  
  The game really doesn't have much of Rayman at all. You'll see him when you need to beat a highscore, 
 in cinematics, and after you win a challenge. But he appears very little still, and the game might 
 as well be called "Rabbids Raving Rayman" because they're the main characters.
  
  The Rabbids are sometimes cute, sometimes ugly, and always kinda nuts, but oh well. What are you 
 gonna do? Right? Yeah... they're not really the sharpest knifes in the drawar.
  
  The challenges are usually fun, but they're sometimes very frusturating. In score mode, it can 
 be hard to beat some of Raymans scores. EXAMPLE: In some games, you'll make it past a round, then 
 it will show a little short clip, but the time still goes as the clip shows. This is annoying when 
 you're low on time.
  
  Pros: Good graphics. Some fun challenges. There are ton's of things to collect for your Rabbids. 
 Very funny.
  
  Cons: Adventure mode can be beaten in a few hours. It can be very frusturating. There isn't much 
 of Rayman.
  
  It's a fun game for Rabbid fans, but Rayman fans won't enjoy fully enjoy it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: yaya_k
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 20, 2007 11:29 am PT
Review:  great collection of mini games for any age. my mom loves playing 'funky town' and 'celebration' 
 and she is terale at playing games on the DS. its not as good as the Wii version but its still 
 realy fun to play. some of the games are really easy but some are really really hard for me to 
 win. it was a good challenge tho :) . and you can paint your bunny any way you want and you unlock 
 accesories every time ou win a game. i do think they could've added some more games to it but its 
 still a good collection. i recomend it to everyone. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cyrone0us
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jul 17, 2008 4:55 am PT
Review:  To be honest, this is one of the best games on DS (of which there are maybe like 4) . A solid mini-game 
 compilation. The adventure mode can be beaten in a good 45 minutes it seems like. The true timekiller 
 is when you go collect the accessories for the rabbids outfits. Everybody loves rabbids, great 
 game, too short. The score mode doesn't do much for you either. the developer scores suck, so you 
 gotta set your own bar. They say there are 35 minigames, I haven't counted but it seems like the 
 way they got to that number is by counting the minigames that they basically remade with different 
 settings. There is absolutely no problem with that however because the game is fun, there's no 
 getting around that. And truly, on a system with an amazing lack of good games, it stands out as 
 a playable, lovable, retarded game that is extremely creative and fun. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
