-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Real Time Conflict: Shogun Empires
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/ds/strategy/shogunwarriorthelostarmy/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 Good concept and the beginnings of some decent strategy gameplay.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 Broken artificial intelligence during battles.
 Broken artificial intelligence on the strategic map.
 Numbingly repetitive minigames.
 No real differences between two playable characters.
 Various noticeable bugs.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Jan  6, 2006
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 3.3
Critic Score: 4.2, 4 Review (s)
User Score: 5.6, 130 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Namco
Developer: Box Clever Int.
Genre: Historic Real-Time...
Date: Nov 21, 2005
ESRB: Everyone 10+

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
You'd think that a real-time strategy game would be a great fit for the Nintendo DS, but stay away 
 from this one and its busted artificial intelligence and half-baked minigames. 

  Ritual suicide may be the only way for Real Time Conflict: Shogun Empires to make up for its great 
 dishonor. This strategy game for the Nintendo DS has a strong premise that pits two sibling warlords 
 against each other in an effort to take control of feudal Japan by any means necessary. But so 
 many aspects of gameplay are simplistic, buggy, or clearly unfinished that the end result is really 
 disappointing.  

          Seppuku is too good for you, Shogun Empires.     

  The setup for the nationwide samurai warfare is that the Shogun is dying and challenges his two 
 brothers to fight for succession. Whoever is the one to unite Japan under his banner will learn 
 the Shogun's dying secret: the location of a mystical, all-powerful sword. One of the brothers 
 is Takashi, a noble leader and capable diplomat. The other is Kenshin, a seasoned and temperamental 
 warrior. You can play as either character in the game, and the other automatically becomes your 
 rival. In addition, you'll find provinces occupied by either bandits or ronin, and these neutral 
 provinces typically won't turn over to your side without a fight. You start off with several provinces 
 flying your colors, and then take turns moving your armies across Japan, claiming land as you go. 
 When you run into an occupied province, you generally must fight for it, at which time Shogun Empires 
 puts you into a real-time strategy battle or one of several minigames. This all sounds good in 
 theory -- in fact, it sounds kind of like the strategy classic Shogun: Total War.  

  Unfortunately, things quickly start to come apart at the seams as you play. The real-time strategy 
 battles that are supposedly at the heart of this game are practically a joke. You've got just three 
 types of units on the battlefield: archers, swordsmen, and spearmen, though once per battle you 
 can also summon your warlord, who will magically show up on his horse and cut down several enemies 
 before going away. That's all right, but the problem is you can't do anything with your units except 
 throw them at their enemies. Even if you did have more tactical options, you wouldn't need them 
 to overcome the game's completely brain-dead artificial intelligence. Enemy units will just kind 
 of mosey around, sometimes rushing to certain death, other times just standing there under a rain 
 of your archers' arrows. What's more, the battles are completely unmanageable unless you play them 
 while zoomed out to where you can see the area around your units -- but at that point, you can't 
 even distinguish your units from each other. So you just throw your blob of guys into the enemy 
 blob of guys, and then you win. Over and over again. For some reason, you also always seem to start 
 out with the same exact number of soldiers, so there's no concept of having to replenish your armies 
 or wear down the enemy or anything like that. There's really nothing strategic about this game. 

  But wait, what about the diplomacy portion? There's nothing to that, either. When you get to a 
 neutral province, you have a "diplomacy" menu option, which you might as well try before you attack. 
 There you have two choices: "negotiate" or "strong arm." Pick either option and you'll get some 
 text telling you whether you were successful or not. Succeed and the province is yours; fail and 
 your only option is battle. It comes across like a random roll of the dice. Ridiculously enough, 
 we had much more success with diplomacy as the warrior-brother Kenshin than as the supposedly diplomatic 
 Takashi. In case you were wondering, both brothers are completely identical to play as in practice, 
 despite the supposed differences in their skills and dispositions. By the way, the artificial intelligence 
 during the turn-based map portion of the game isn't any better than in battle. When playing against 
 the cunning warlord Kenshin, we were amazed when early on in our campaign, he got all of his armies 
 killed by bandits and ronin (the computer's battles are automatically resolved, but the results 
 seem completely random) . We proceeded to claim the remaining provinces one after another, while 
 Kenshin could do nothing. Things only got easier as we earned "honor points," with which we quickly 
 upgraded our soldiers' speed, making the battles blissfully shorter.  

  What remains of Shogun Empires are a handful of simple, silly minigames and some crash bugs. We 
 had the game freeze on us no fewer than three times while playing through the campaigns, further 
 suggesting that Shogun Empires isn't ready for prime time. At least the game prompts you to save 
 your progress between turns. As for the minigames, there are a few different ones that all will 
 get tedious within a couple of hours if not a few minutes -- certainly by the time you've finished 
 a campaign. Castle sieges and ship-to-ship battles require you to use the touch screen to aim ballistae 
 against enemy archers. You just draw with the stylus until a big arrow points to the enemy archers, 
 and watch them get gunned down. Horse pursuits often initiate after the real-time strategy battles. 
 From a first-person perspective, you fire away with your bow while the enemy general fires back, 
 trying to escape. Simply pressing the shoulder buttons over and over to shoot is literally enough 
 to win in these cases. There's also the ninja duel, since you can occasionally recruit ninjas to 
 take out the leadership of a province. Here you just walk back and forth, wildly swinging your 
 sword and hoping you kill the other guy before he kills you. The animations are laughably bad in 
 this rarest of Shogun Empires' minigames.  

  Amazingly enough, all these bad parts somehow congeal into something that's mildly compelling for 
 a little while. You'll naturally want to see all that the game has to offer, and you might initially 
 mistake a complete lack of depth for your misunderstanding of subtle nuances that, apparently, 
 just aren't there. This means you might have fun with Shogun Empires for a little while, but you'll 
 probably feel cheated at the end of it. A versus multiplayer mode is there, but should you inflict 
 this experience onto a friend of yours, the animosity that'll erupt between the two of you will 
 probably make Takashi and Kenshin's pale by comparison.  

          If only Shogun Empires actually delivered on its compelling premise.     

  The presentation 
 in Shogun Empires is decent at times, but mostly feels rough and unfinished like the rest of the 
 game. Some decent battle sounds can be heard while your swordsmen and archers clash, but you'll 
 hear the clamor of battle as soon as you select a target for your soldiers, rather than when your 
 forces actually start fighting. The goofy death screams are at least amusing, and a few nice bits 
 of music are in there, in the menus and such. Some of the minigames also look decent -- at least, 
 the first few times you see them. The map screen also looks good, though the interface for checking 
 and moving between provinces is clunky.  

  Of course, the graphics and sound effects in Shogun Empires are the least of the game's problems. 
 It's basically got some good ideas, from the premise to the actual mechanics that mostly involve 
 using the touch screen, but they're purely conceptual and far from being fleshed out into a reasonably 
 entertaining strategy game.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (25 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: reidwii1
Rating: 4.5
Date: Mar 25, 2007 11:54 am PT
Review:  shogun is a good try... but almost no prevail.
  
  GAMEPLAY: godd map use i like that part . the war part were u summon people to go places is pretty 
 fun. cuz u have to use stratagy..... thats the only good things.... the arching part were u invade 
 the castle is wreckless, so is the horse fights and sword play. in the castle seige u cant even 
 move. u just aim and it takes five min. to even shoot!. horseback u just ride side ways and press 
 L at the guys head! and the sword play.... lets just say i could even figure it out. over all the 
 game play is very broken
  
  GRAPHICS: ya know what....... the graphics are alright. the war part is preetty realilistic. and 
 the map is too. the graphics are glitchy but satisfying.
  
  SOUND: almostbut not quite... the battle cries are great. everything else is awfull
  
  VALUE: 
 i wouldnt buy it... i regret buying it any way. if u like stratagy u might find some use
  
  Im reidwii1. later 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Raudeldormr
Rating: 1.1
Date: Mar 16, 2007 11:13 pm PT
Review:  Well, here we go. This bieng my first review. I just had to pick this game because of its excessive 
 amount of CRUD! Real Time Conflict: Shogun Empires was my second game for the Nintendo DS and I 
 was dissapointed for alot of reasons. Number one reason is that I completed the game on both sides 
 in an hour and a half. Way too short! Number two was the graphics. Way under my standards (which 
 are pretty low) . When I got this game, I expected something like Starcraft, not a strategy game 
 that requires no stragetic gameplay at all. This game almost makes me barf. The only slightly better 
 parts of this game is the sound and the minigames (which I got highly addicted to for about 10 
 minutes) . The sounds countless looping does get annoying, just like the fps. Dont get me started 
 on the FPS count of about 5. When you think Strategy for DS, you think, SWEET! But not for this 
 one. Horrible. Thats all. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ZKB
Rating: 3.4
Date: Dec 31, 2006 3:04 pm PT
Review:  Shogun Empires.... tsk tsk tsk. If you look at the cover art, it might look like a fun game, but 
 then insert the card into your DS and you'll want to throw it off a cliff. Lets take a look at 
 why it sucks.
  
  Graphics:
  The graphics were alright in Shogun Empires. However they seem abit grainy at times. Also, the 
 animations are horrible, the people look like they are taking 2-inch steps as they march. Gameplay:
 
  The gameplay is boring. The fights have almost no strategy whatsoever. I found myself constantly 
 slecting the auto fight mode. Occasionally you will come upon a sort of mini game. These include 
 chase the enemy general, board a ship, attack/defend a caslte, and thats it. The most common is 
 the chase the general one. In this game, you can't control where your general goes, just fire arrow, 
 oh which you can't aim. the other ones just have you shooting arrows at archers. Boring and bland.
 
  
  Music/Sound:
  The music is probably the best part of Shogun Empires, too bad theres only two tracks. The sound 
 effects are horrible. the death screams sound like five year olds crying and there is one sword 
 sound, which is shared with the spearmen too. There are about 3 arrow noises and they are ok.
 
  
  Story:
  Very unoriginal. Two brothers fighting over control for Japan. I often found myself just not caring.
 
  
  So yeah, Shogun Empires had a good concept, it just was executed badly. I wouldn't recomend this 
 game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pinpals
Rating: 1
Date: Dec 25, 2006 10:38 pm PT
Review:  I end this game on 2 hours, because is bad. I end this game on 2 hours, because is bad. I end this 
 game on 2 hours, because is bad. I end this game on 2 hours, because is bad. I end this game on 
 2 hours, because is bad. I end this game on 2 hours, because is bad. I end this game on 2 hours, 
 because is bad. I end this game on 2 hours, because is bad. I end this game on 2 hours, because 
 is bad. I end this game on 2 hours, because is bad. I end this game on 2 hours, because is bad. 
 I end this game on 2 hours, because is bad. I end this game on 2 hours, because is bad. I end this 
 game on 2 hours, because is bad. I end this game on 2 hours, because is bad. I end this game on 
 2 hours, because is bad. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: REVOLUTIONfreak
Rating: 1.9
Date: Dec 24, 2006 11:53 am PT
Review:  Gameplay: The sad part is, there really isn't any gameplay to this game. You command an army and 
 then move around your troops in a Risk board game type manner. Once you commence combat, you end 
 up either shooting down enemies using the touch screen or commanding troops in an RTS style.... 
 without the strategy aspect. This game truly is the most repetitive game I have ever played, because 
 you literally are doing the same combat technique over and over again. In reality, there are only 
 about three or so different battle areas also.... which adds even less strategy. Basically, I cannot 
 stress enough how important it is to stay away from this game for this reason and this reason alone. 
 Compared to this game's PC counterpart this game is utter junk.
  
  Graphics: While it is done in 3D, the detail is lacking. Character models are ugly, and the environments 
 don't feel lively at all. The menu is ok though, which is something I guess...
  
  Sound: Again, reused sounds get pretty old. Same old grunts, same old music. Nothing is very exciting 
 or enthusiastic about the sound in this game at all.
  
  Value: Literally, there is absolutely no replay value to this game. Mainly this is because even 
 though you have two campaign options they both are nearly identical. The story is lackluster, the 
 entire game and presentation is lackluster and will never leave you wanting more even from the 
 start of the game. Take my advice and do not buy this game, even if it is on the clearance shelf. 
 There is so much more that is worth spending your money on. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DrCruel
Rating: 2.7
Date: Oct 12, 2006 10:24 pm PT
Review:  I really wanted to like this game. Even after all the bad reviews, I still ended up buying it, 
 just to check it out.
  
  The game is virtually unplayable. The layout looks good, but whoever did the coding never bothered 
 to polish it or even finish it. Some of the mingames, such as the ship game, simply don't work. 
 The tactical combats are uncontrollable and tactically shallow - the game mainly devolved to having 
 your blob of guys randomly collide with the enemy's random blob of guys. Sometimes the troops get 
 stuck on the borders, and sometimes the game simply hangs.
  
  The developers could have simply ported Koei's turn-based NES title, Nobunaga's Ambition, and they 
 would have had a hit. A touch screen version of this game would have flown off game store shelves. 
 Instead they opted for a RTS approach, got frustrated with trying to make it work, and finally 
 gave up and released it unfinished.
  
  All in all a very poor effort, for something that could and certainly should have been made to 
 work, especially before releasing the game to the retail public. I'll certainly be more leery of 
 other Namco titles in future. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bushidoboi1
Rating: 3.6
Date: Oct 2, 2006 9:06 pm PT
Review:  It's like a car crash, you can't look away. the graphics were pretty good (DS wise) . that's the 
 only good part of this game. the game play was like a action/retarded Civilazions III clone, the 
 reason why I bought the friggen thing was because of a couple of reasons: I thought the turn based 
 strategy was gonna be kick ass, The ninja assassination mini games looked cool, and finally! a 
 turned base samurai game set in japan! Sweet! . I was completely wrong. the ninja fights were so 
 boring, I almost thought hitting my thumb with a hammer would be better, in the turned base game 
 play you coulden't call for more troops. sound effects were really crappy. and for value... DON'T 
 BY THIS GAME!!! and for tilt, same thing for value. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: a99aSix
Rating: 4.2
Date: Sep 26, 2006 3:20 pm PT
Review:  When Shogun Empires was announced for the Nintendo DS, many were expecting, PC like control and 
 precision. Especially considering the new innovations that the DS now provides. What was found 
 was a totally missed opportunity to make what could of been a great game.
  
  Shogun's in-game controls are off key. The only time when the controls are near good is when you 
 are at the menu screens. Even then, you'll find yourself double tapping. The camera angles during 
 the on screen fighting don't really help. You can either choose to zoom in on one area of the battlefield, 
 or see a total over view of the map, (thus the characters and everything else will be small; yet 
 visible) . You'd expect that the touch screen would make for an easy substitute for drag/point/highlight 
 your units and send them into battle, but it is far from enjoyable on this game. You will find 
 yourself frustrated and aggravated that your units do not respond well to your directions, and 
 more frequently than not, will arrive off-point from where you want them to settle.
  
  Another area that was really affected, is when you have the 3rd person view of aiming a cannon 
 or giant arrow launcher to shoot down an opposing boat or castle. When is simply a drag and aim 
 motion the DS is again, heavily missed and off target. More so than the in-field fighting.
  
  Controls alone are not the only thing this game suffers. There is no real pure story. You do 
 get a summarization of your progression after you take over certain territories, as you would in 
 the game RISK. But nothing more... no cut scenes, no images, no CG. Just 1 - 3 paragraph's that 
 sum up your acquisition of land that expanded your army.
  
  As for multiplayer, it will be hard first of all to find more than 1 person with this game in the 
 nearest vicinity around you. This game requires that 2 people have a copy.
  
  The sound of the game is captured pretty good, you do hear the sword clanking and the sound of 
 agony and pain from the warriors in combat. And the graphics are ok, considering it is a 1st gen 
 DS game.
  
  All in all, this game is a poor example of an RTS on the Nintendo DS. Purchases aside, rentals 
 beware as well. Even if the game lands in the clearance, there is no sense of joy in this game. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nunourbeezwax
Rating: 2.5
Date: Mar 20, 2006 10:59 am PT
Review:  this game simply sux. theres no point, its boring, easy and its got the worst soundtrack ive ever 
 heard in my  swear. want advice. 
 if u wanna make the biggest mistake of ur life then buy this game .its the most basic strategy 
 game on earth and i dont think it would appeal to anyone except fanboys. its that bad. its one 
 of the biggest waste of money i ever did. just dont buy it. its not even worth riting a 100 word 
 review for.
  seriously, its thaaat baad. d d d d d d d d d d d d d d d d d d d d d d d d d d d d dont buy it 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: fft_ramza
Rating: 2.8
Date: Feb 24, 2006 9:11 pm PT
Review:  The plot of Real Time Conflict: Shogun Empires is a very obvious thing, It is about the Samurai 
 brothers during the Japanesse wars and the eternal struggle of armies that their only purpose in 
 life is to obey the leaders orders to acomplish their ambitions.
  
  The graphics are very very BAD, the Sound effects are mediocre and the AI is TERRIBLE.
  
  This 
 game probably has the worst AI ever, it would appear that the AI was programed by a stoned 16 year 
 old teenage. It has a lot of ''bugsy'' gameplay, the battles are TEDIOUS, the minigames are TERRIBLE 
 and the game completely lacks the basics of a decent game.
  
  The real-time strategy battles that are supposedly at the heart of this game are practically a 
 joke. You've got just three types of units on the battlefield: archers, swordsmen, and spearmen, 
 though once per battle you can also summon your warlord, who will magically show up on his horse 
 and cut down several enemies before going away. That's all right, but the problem is you can't 
 do anything with your units except throw them at their enemies.
  
  The brain-dead AI is the worst, and even if you had more strategies to chose from everything would 
 be ruined by the pathetic AI.
  
  Overall: Real Time Conflict: Shogun Empires is a very bad RTS game and it will not fulfill the 
 basics you seek when aqcuiring a game 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Vash_7511
Rating: 3
Date: Feb 23, 2006 7:36 pm PT
Review:  This game is basically a video game version of risk. The game goes extremely wrong by making you 
 constantly repeat the same scenario over and over until you capture every province. Once you have 
 successfully captured every province you are told congratulations and then its the end. The graphics 
 are rigid and the sound is atrocious, especially after trying to siege a castle and hearing the 
 sounds of soldiers getting hit and arrows flying. The game also tries to make the game interesting 
 by adding little mini games like chasing down a general as he runs from battle. However, all you 
 have to do during that game is hit the "L" button repeatedly while moving your character from left 
 to right. After playing this game for about 20 minutes, it is likely that you will have experienced 
 all this game has to offer. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Jtrain3470
Rating: 3.4
Date: Feb 4, 2006 4:51 pm PT
Review:  Real Time Conflict: Shogun Empires (SE) is a game that relied on the series popularity to sell. 
 This game is horrible in almost every way possible.
  
  Gameplay:
  The map in SE has about 30 regions that you can take over. This sounds like a lot at first but 
 you soon realize that if you take over each region within 10 minutes, 30 regions is not something 
 to be excited about. You will use the map to move your armies and assassins around and to look 
 at you and your enemies regions. If you were looking forward to the "city controlling" (building, 
 setting taxes, making soldiers, etc.) in SE you will be VERY disappointed. SE has absolutely no 
 "city controlling" in it, the only thing that cities are good for are...... getting closer to taking 
 over the world and putting an end to this awful game. Also this game is short, i beat it in like 
 5 hours
  
  Battles in SE are the main attraction to this game and its main downfall.
  I will start out by saying there are a total of 3 units in the game for you to use.
  You will 
 get to use swordsmen, spearmen and archers. The swordsmen are supposed to be your "shook troops" 
 yet they move like a snail just like every other unit on the battlefield. You can beat half of 
 your battles just by using your archers, which takes all of the tactics you will need to beat 
 this game. Another thing I found to be bad was there are about 6 different battlefields that you 
 fight on. It doesnt really matter which one you fight on because none of them have any effect 
 on the fight. The AI in this game is TERRIBLE. The AI will send one group of swordsmen at your 
 whole army (which is and will always be in every battle a group of swordsmen, spearmen and archers) . 
 The AI is so dumb that normally if you shoot an enemy with arrows they will just stand there and 
 take the hits and then die. Another thing that will get annoying is the speed that your soldiers 
 move, after all the excitement of the game goes away (which is probably after 1 battle) the battles 
 more likely turns into a waiting game as you wait for your soldiers to chase the enemies down. 
 You use the styles to move and choose your soldiers, which is a nice touch (and the only one if 
 you ask me) but a lot of the time you will touch an area for your soldiers to go to only to find 
 that they are going in the opposite direction.
  
  The minigames in SE are a nice distraction at first but then become an annoyance. In one of the 
 minigames you are your armies general and you are chasing the enemy general. You use the styles 
 to move your general from left to right to dodge in coming arrows, and push the L button to fire 
 your arrows. You can beat this minigames with out trying to dodge the arrows or aiming your bow, 
 all you need to do is be able to press the L button really fast and you will beat the minigame. 
 Most of the minigames are like this once you know how to beat it, it becomes supremely easy making 
 it really boring and more like a chore.
  
  Graphics:
  The graphics in Real Time Conflict: Shogun Empires is only good enough so you can make out what 
 it is, and thats really all there is to say about the graphics in SE.
  
  Sound:
  The sound in Real Time Conflict: Shogun Empires is not bad but some music in the game gets repetitive. 
 The music in the game is alright but does not change, for instance every time you begin a battle 
 you hear the same going into battle music every single time. The sound effects are not that repetitive 
 and add a nice aura to the battles as you hear swords, arrows and men scream as they are hit. Although 
 overall the sound isnt bad it is nothing to talk about.
  
  Overall:
  Real Time Conflict: Shogun Empires is a severe disappointment to all DS owners and Total War fans. 
 I tell you now DO NOT BUY THIS GAME!!! I REPEAT DO NOT BUY THIS GAME!!
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: murraylemmon
Rating: 1
Date: Jan 7, 2006 4:47 am PT
Review:  Its rubbish i mean this was the first RTS game for the DS and they were saying OH this two screens 
 wowzers man who really cares, So what sure that cool in all but you can't build unit's and then 
 the minigames are bad I mean come on they spend this much money on this game! I really regret buying 
 this game but i guess thats just my opinion. If i were u i wouldnt buy this game. Its just..... Not 
 good. Its so so so so so so so boring man. Its just so boring dude! i dont think this game should 
 have been made! It's just going to give misery to ones that waste their money!
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: falco1029
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jan 1, 2006 1:16 pm PT
Review:  This game is an attempt to be innovative with a war game. It combines TBS, RTS, and minigames together 
 to fight a war. While it's a nice attempt, and there's some fun to be had, it falls short.
  
  Gameplay: As I said, there's turn based, real time, and minigame combat combined. Basically, 
 you choose your character (the diplomat or the war monger) , and you're given a risk style board. 
 You're given about 4 or 5 armies with which to take over the entire continent. During your turn, 
 you move an army onto either a gray area, where you automatically take the province, a yellow area 
 or green area, where you can either try to negociate surrender or just attack (or possibly castle 
 siege, more on that later) , or your brother's province (either red or blue) , in which you may only 
 attack. negociating is merely picking strong arm or negociate, and the chance of success seems 
 to depend on the option, the morale, and the stamina of the enemy province. Also, if you choose 
 the diplomat brother, he seems to be able to negociate better.
  
  If you attack, you're thrown into a small scenario (or the battle is done randomly, depending on 
 what you choose) , which might be elimination or getting to a banner to capture it. you're given 
 5 archers, 5 spearmen, and 5 swordsmen to do your mission. THe controls are done like they should 
 be, with dpad scrolling, touch screen selecting troops, and using the a, b, and x keys for hotkeys 
 for troops. Supposedly, there are voice commands, as the options say, but i havent figured that 
 out yet, and the instructions dont help.
  
  After the battle, the enemy general may try to escape. You're then givin a little shooting minigame 
 where you ride after the enemy general, dodging arrows, and trying to shoot him with your own arrows. 
 If successful, you'll get more honor points.
  
  Honor points are used to either make your troops better, or hire an assassin. If you hire an assassin, 
 you pick a province to atatck, then wait. Within a minute or so the ninja strikes. You're then 
 given a small fighting minigame to defeat the general. Its a bit hard, as the ai seems too computer 
 responsed, and thus i dont suggest using this option.
  
  Another way that you may take a province is castle siege, where you're given 2 ballistas and you 
 have to protect your catapult from archer swhile it attacks the castle. The aiming is a bit akward, 
 but the minigame would be too eays if the controls were perfect anyway. If you pick off all the 
 archers or your catapult destroys the gate, you win the province. 
  
  Another minigame is ship battles, which occur at random times when ships on the sea meet. you basically 
 use ballistas to attack archer son an enemy ship. It's much easier than the castle minigame though. 
 
  
  When it's the enemy's turn, all their battles are random, unless they attack you. THey do tend 
 to run out of armies though, which is a pretty bad bug, as it dulls up the game if only you're 
 attacking (and thus will definitely win) . When he attacks you, you're given the opposite scenario 
 as if you were attacking, meaning you're either defending your troops or stopping the enemy from 
 getting to a banner. 
  
  You win by getting all of the provinces. There's also multiplayer, but none of my friends have 
 this game, so I don't know how good it is. 
  
  Graphics: Well, the models are pretty nice, and the textures are mediocre (they suck for certain 
 areas though, like the attacking the general minigame) , and sometimes grainy. They could be better. 
 THe animations are kinda funny and quirky, but work nicely. However, the levels dont have much 
 scenery to them, and this can be a bit of a downer. Otherwise though, they arent too bad.
  
  Sound: The sound is alright. Little bits of music here and there, with ok quality, nothign 
 special. Attackign sounds can get annoying, as a rioting sound plays whenever you order an attack. 
 Basically, the sounds are as mediocre as the graphics.
  
  Value: It might start geting boring after a few playthroughs, as the enemy ai is stupid and doesnt 
 mix up the game at all. Also, you seem to always win, which isnt much fun. However, if you have 
 a friend with this game, it's worth keeping, as i imagien a human opponent would be more challenging 
 and interesting to play.
  
  Tilt: I like the game, and can forgive the repetitiveness. It has a bit fo a charm, so im keeping 
 the tilt at 8, not too low, not too high 
  
  All in all, anyone who likes strategy and has a ds would do well to at least try the game out. 
 If not buy it. It's not the greatest gam eof al ltime, but it's fun while it lasts. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SageIgna
Rating: 4.1
Date: Dec 26, 2005 3:55 pm PT
Review:  As background information for those who don't know, Shogun Empires is a real-time strategy that, 
 as the name implies, takes place in Feudal japan. You lead troops into battle, negotiate with other 
 powers in the world, and can hire ninjas to assassinate leaders. It seems like a solid game and 
 was something that DS definitely didn't have... Advance Wars is spectacular for strategy, but is 
 turn-based.
  
  When I actually got the game, I learned that you can control one of two people: Takashi and Kenshin. 
 The former is good with diplomacy, and the other has mastered the art of chopping people's heads 
 off. The plotline is pretty simple. They're both the sons of the Shogun, the leader of Japan. But 
 *teh gasp* Japan is divided with bandits and leaderless samurai, and there is no unity amongst 
 the people. Chances are that the plot won't offer anything new to you.
  
  Not that it's really such a big flaw that the entire game suffers, but the cliches get worse. There's 
 a legendary sword that's supposed to be really powerful, and your father is the only one left who 
 knows where it is. And to top it all off, he's old and dying, and on his deathbed he wants to see 
 Japan reunited by one of his sons. Whoever brings back order to Japan will be told where this godly 
 sword is.
  
  None of that really matters though. The game has no skits or cinemas, or even any remote sign of 
 conversation/interaction with anyone when you play through the game. At key points you get textboxes 
 explaining what they really -should- be showing you in a cinema, but are too lazy to do. It's generally 
 an elongated "Good job!"
  
  While the plot is cliched and is never built onto, the gameplay is better. You have three classes 
 of soldiers: the swordsmen, the spearmen, and the archer. The swordsmen start off fast, the spearmen 
 start off slow but strong, and the archers are pretty average. As you play through the game, you 
 get 'honor points' which can be used to buy strength, health, or speed for any of these units. 
 In this way you can customize how you use your units... for instance, I made all of my swordsmen 
 really fast and powerful but didn't bother with their health, meaning that they could run three 
 times as fast as the other units and basically kill their enemies with a small tap, but died like 
 lemmings in front of anyone who could get the first hit on them. Consequentially they were a good 
 answer to other swordsmen or spearmen, but were poor in the face of archers.
  
  But you'll find that this bit of freedom is a rarity in the game. The dumbest part of the game 
 is that when you 'click' on an enemy province it shows you how many soldiers they have. That's 
 pretty comic, because it's a fact that every army in the game has a determined amount of 20... you 
 have 15 (5 swordsmen, 5 archers, 5 spearmen) . You never 'gain' or 'lose' troops. If all but one 
 die, you still keep 15. The only way to lose soldiers is to get completely demolished, in which 
 case one of your 'armies' (which are like chess pieces, so you can have many more than one) dissapears 
 forever. They also have enemy morale and stamina... don't worry, none of that actually effects the 
 battles in a notable fashion.
  
  As I said, you always have 15 men, and the exact numbers of the 3 types. You control your men by 
 pressing a certain class-specific button which automatically highlights all the soldiers of that 
 respective class to do what you want. Or you can use your stylus to 'click' and drag over all of 
 them (or almost all of them) ... if you plan on commanding one or two people at a time, forget it -- the 
 controls are a bit too clumsy for that type of manuevering. Besides, in groups of less than 5 your 
 men would die pretty much instantly anyway, so that doesn't actually restrict the controls.
  
  While there aren't any problems with the controls, there's a serious problem with the battles. 
 When you choose to attack, you're put into a random scenario. Either you have to eliminate everyone 
 or take the banner. In all there's 5 maps, and for each 5 the enemies are positioned in the exact 
 same way. So let's go through this... you have a set number of soldiers, a set number of enemy soldiers, 
 a limited number of maps, and a set position of enemies according to the map. By the third battle 
 you'll have experience everything the game has to offer.
  
  As for negotiations... well, there's really nothing to it. You just get the option to negotiate, 
 and when you click the button and it tells you the outcome. If you picked Kenshin you'll never 
 amount to **** with diplomacy unless you use the 'strongarm' option and basically threaten your 
 enemies (in which case you'll still have a low chance of succeeding) , and if you picked Takashi 
 you'll start off really bad, but the more you try the easier it will be to succeed. When you succeed 
 in diplomacy you win the province without battling, but otherwise there's no difference. And since 
 the battles themselves are really easy, and your army cannot lose soldiers as long as you don't 
 majorly screw up, you aren't saving anything but time.
  
  Also, when you start off after you picked one of the brothers, the opposing brother commands his 
 own armies and tries to conquer his own provinces. This AI is ****tier than pong. I beat this game 
 twice... in both files, the other brother killed himself by constantly losing to bandit provinces. 
 Since the brother's armies are the only others that move across provinces, it's pretty impossible 
 to experience an enemy invasion.
  
  This is a real shame, because I would be willing to put aside all of the other shortcomings if 
 I was given a challenge and forced to seriously use all of the tactics like diplomacy and assassins 
 to weave my way through enemy forces. What ends up happening is that your brother commits suicide 
 immediately, and the next 55 minutes of playing the game is you, fighting one after another mediocre 
 battle with lone samurai and bandits. There's no variety at all.
  
  To sum up the game's difficulty, Shogun Empires tops even the most dissapointing of games (I'm 
 looking at you, "Battalion Wars"!) ... I beat the game in 1 hour or less and the game has no difficulty 
 settings. It has multiplayer, but the likelihood of having a DS owning friend who has this game 
 is too slim to put into account. After playing this game I'm ready to play Ninja Gaiden a bit more 
 to rub off this insult to my intelligence.
  
  Putting the nice controls into account and just the fact that you can use honor points to decide 
 how to use your own men, this game is something worth a rental if you have the money. If you're 
 strapped for cash though, don't bother. The game is lost in its unbelievably stupid AI and blatant 
 lack of detail.
  
  Gameplay -- 4 (for the honor points)
  Graphics -- 7 (it's good for the DS, but not spectacular)
  Sound -- 5 (nothing worth noting)
 
  Value -- 1 (easy, short, repetitive... if I didn't get this as a gift I'd be really pissed for 
 wasting money) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Calborr
Rating: 4.2
Date: Dec 22, 2005 7:27 pm PT
Review:  I mean come on this was the first RTS game for the DS that I know of, And they were saying OH this 
 two screens WOW who flipin cares, So what sure that cool in all but you can't build unit's and 
 then the minigames suck I mean come on they spend this much money on this crap do not buy this 
 game I regret buying it, but that's just my opintion and you mite want this game don't it's not 
 good, and further of that it get's boring so fast you can't change the difficulty at all you can 
 change brothers,
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Kornknot
Rating: 3.1
Date: Dec 21, 2005 6:06 pm PT
Review:  Seriously, I just want my money back... thats all I really have to say. I mean, if I had that thirty 
 dollars, I could go buy a better game with it. Or hell, I could even pay someone to kick me in 
 the nuts, it would still be money better spent. But it looks like i'm going to have to suffer... those 
 bastards, they promised tactical samurai death action and all I got was a lot of stylus poking. 
 Yippee. Folks, if you are considering buying this, look at yourself long and hard in the mirror 
 and ask yourself if you really want to endure this much pain, because if you don't you should consider 
 saving yourself the heart-ache and disappointment and just not bother with this rushed, easy, mindless 
 waste of time. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Ziphion
Rating: 2.6
Date: Dec 19, 2005 7:48 pm PT
Review:  When I purchased this game, I was expecting a RTS similar to the popular Total War title Shogun, 
 a fantastic game which I own for PC. But I soon discovered that what I had thought was something 
 worth my time was indeed a candy-coated turd.
  
  The player can choose between the two sons of the dying Shogun, who will give a magic demon-slaying 
 katana to the brother who can unite Japan under one flag. The brothers, despite the game's claims, 
 are completely identical. The "warmongering" brother is just as likely to have success in negotiations 
 as his diplomatic sibling. But the number one most absurd, annoying reason not to play this game 
 is the fact that, no matter which side you choose, your brother will lose all his armies within 
 his first four turns, when he chooses to attack surrounding Ronin or Bandits and suffers a defeat. 
 This means he can no longer move (it is impossible to raise armies, you simply "get" new ones after 
 victories once in a while) , meaning he has no more turns, meaning YOU CANNOT LOSE THE GAME AT THIS 
 POINT. Ronin and bandits do not attack you, and with your brother unable to, it is only a matter 
 of time before you take over Japan one province at a time with little to no resistance.
  
  To attempt to gain a new province, the player moves an army from a neighboring province to the 
 desired one, similar to a board game. If the province is already occupied, you then must choose 
 between three options: Attack (or Castle Siege, if the province happens to have a castle) , Diplomacy, 
 or Cancel. Choosing Cancel will return the army to its previous province and call off the attack, 
 but the player loses 1 out of his 4 moves per turn (as explained above, this doesn't matter whatsoever) . 
 Choosing Diplomacy brings up two more options: Negotiate or Strong-Arm. As both brothers, I've 
 had success with either option, but both have completely random success rates. If the diplomacy 
 goes well, the player attains control of the province. If it fails, the player LOSES THE OPTION 
 to cancel or retreat. The only remaining option is Attack/Castle Siege. It is impossible in Shogun 
 Empires, as either brother, to leave a province peacefully after failing diplomatic negotiations.
 
  
  Choosing Attack brings up two more options: Simulate Combat (no matter what your army's stats are, 
 it's always a 50% chance of winning) or command your troops personally (unless you're an infant 
 or braindead, it's a 100% chance of winning) . If you choose to command your troops personally, 
 the game hands you a random objective: destroy the enemy, reach the flag, etc. Mostly destroy the 
 enemy. The player will ALWAYS have the same number and type of soldiers, and will ALWAYS outnumber 
 the enemy in encounters, no matter how many of your men died in the previous battle. You just get 
 them all back at the end of the fight. The battle AI is abysmal, to put it lightly. Hitting select 
 will summon, well, yourself, to ride out on your brilliant steed and save the day -- no, wait, all 
 you do is kill a random 3 enemy soldiers and take off. You cannot control this unit; the only uncontrollable 
 unit is YOURSELF. Logical. In short, the battle system in Shogun Empires is severely, frustratingly 
 lacking.
  
  At the end of almost every, if not every single battle, another required minigame presents itself 
 before you: kill the escaping enemy general. Crosshairs for your bow and arrow are in the center 
 of the top screen; they are immovable. It is impossible to aim at the bastard, you must simply 
 button-mash. The touch screen is instead used to dodge enemy arrows, but, if you do happen to see 
 an arrow coming (usually they just hit you without any warning) , you often can't steer your horse 
 out of the way fast enough to avert the incoming projectile. So it's best simply to button-mash 
 your arrows in the general direction of the general until he dies. You will never lose this minigame 
 with this mindless strategy.
  
  The Castle Siege minigame actually isn't too bad the first or second times you play it. Your catapult 
 is in the center of the touch screen, but you don't control this; with the stylus, you aim the 
 ballistas on either side of the catapult at the enemy archers littered over and around the besieged 
 castle. If there weren't so many damn castles to attack throughout Japan, the game wouldn't get 
 so ridiculously tiresome and just plain old. But Castle Siege is not the worst part of this game, 
 so I won't dwell on it.
  
  Taking over a province or winning a random ship-to-ship battle (naval battles occur when the ships 
 sailing around the map come right up beside each other; the premise is exactly the same as Castle 
 Siege, but much easier) will earn you Honor points. With these points, you can raise the strength, 
 speed, or health of your troops, forming an illusion that this makes any difference at all in the 
 already insipidly easy battles. You can also dish out a hefty 550 Honor points to train a ninja 
 and send him to an enemy province to take out its leader. Instead of actually assassinating the 
 leader, the ninja engages him in an extremely crappy version of a side-view fighting game. Attack, 
 block, move. If you lose, the province remains under that leader and you lose your ninja. If you 
 win, the province becomes neutral and YOU LOSE YOUR NINJA. Where does he go? Maybe he commits sepukku. 
 Who the hell knows.
  
  If you can make it through all these mind-grinding distractions, you can finally conquer every 
 last province of Japan to recieve absolutely nothing for all your hard work. There is no ending 
 sequence; you receive a message saying "You got Japan and your dad gave you the sword, hooray, 
 good for you." I wanted to throw my DS at the wall when I received this message and returned to 
 the title screen.
  
  But I must give credit where credit is due. The graphics of this game aren't bad for what the DS 
 is capable of, but they certainly aren't spectacular. The sound isn't bad either, but can be annoying 
 at times. For instance, every time you close the menu in which you use your Honor points, a horridly 
 vexing sound of what appears to be a horse being violently killed is blasted into your eardrums. 
 Thank goodness for volume control.
  
  In conclusion, Shogun Empires is the most irritating game I have ever played. For your own sake, 
 please do not buy this game. I wasted a good 30 dollars on this; at best, it's worth a tenth of 
 that.
  
  -Ziph 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lajinnsolo
Rating: 2.5
Date: Dec 10, 2005 2:58 pm PT
Review:  The game play is awkward and annoying. There is a VERY repetative castle seige mode, a slow and 
 boring combat mode, and a few other terrible choices. 
  The graphics are really bad. The men don't run; they twitch. They don't attack; they twitch. The 
 three (3) classes of troops look exactly alike.
  The sound in the only good thing; it is decent in most ways. It generally fits in well.
  Thirty 
 dollars for this piece of #$%^? You've got to be kidding. I wouldn't pay five dollars for it.
 
  
  The game can easily be beaten in an hour and a half. Only one difficulty mode. Practically no story 
 line. A nonexistent ending sequence. I bought this game two days ago; I'm selling it tomorrow. 
 I only bought it because it looked cool (yes, I know I'm an idiot) .
  
  The number GS gives this game is an average; cut it in half for a PROPER score. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ablesquad
Rating: 2
Date: Dec 8, 2005 4:39 am PT
Review:  I really wanted this game and luckily it came out the day before I left for Japan on holidays. 
 So I got it, thinking it`d be kind of a cool strat/RPG game like Advance Wars DS - but not as good 
 - but good enough to kill time at the airport and on the plane. Well, I finished it twice - once 
 with each brother - within a few hours while in mid flight. I found the AI was horrible, and that 
 if you played it, eventually the enemy will run out of armies leaving you the duty of cleaning 
 up the provinces with very little opposition. Speaking of which, the opposition sucked as all you 
 had to do was select all of your units at once and gang-bang the enemies` units one at a time; 
 and just for the kicks, you could call in your General on horse back and kill 50% of the enemy 
 in one swift slaying. Also, when upgrading your own units, once you`ve maxed out their stats, they 
 all become the same, except for the archers who are ranged and the swordsmen and spearmen who are 
 close combat. All in all, don`t buy this game unless you`re looking for something to do while you`re 
 sitting on the can, becuase you could probably finish it by the time your done wiping yourself. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: NickMach9
Rating: 6
Date: Dec 6, 2005 10:20 am PT
Review:  Well they tried, ill give em that but Shogun wasnt really all that wonderful. It is a very intersting 
 game, mixing RTS with FPS and board game! but sadly each level is exactly the same as the one before 
 it and it gets pretty boring. The graphics are pretty good and the music is beautiful but thats 
 not enought to really save this game. the controls are a little weird too.
  omg and whats with that little Chasing the General thing after every battle?! This isnt much of 
 a RTS or a TBS at that, you cant build units or manage anything. gah! so irritating. You can get 
 this is you want, but i wouldnt, just wait for AOE2. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Yagami-Iori
Rating: 6.5
Date: Dec 5, 2005 10:12 am PT
Review:  RTC: Shogun Empire is the first strategy-type game that we have seen thus far on the DS. The story 
 is about two brothers that have different views on what it is to rule an empire and therefore, 
 fight for supremacy in feudal Japan. While there is a good story here, everything else comes off 
 as bland.
  
  Gameplay- 7- The gameplay really can be classified as a large game of risk. You are shown an area 
 map that have territories under different control. What you must do is move around the map in an 
 attempt to take over the other territories, eventually becoming the victor. After selecting a territory, 
 there are a few different battle options, usually though, you will be doing a battle or castle 
 siege. The battles usually have an objective that you must carry out to win, like capture a area 
 on the map or defeat all enemies. The movement of the troops is done through highlighting the forces 
 & touching where they should move. This technique does take a little getting used to, as it doesn't 
 operate as smoothly as I think it should, but is overall effective.
  
  In castle siege, your catapult will automatically fire on the castle gates. What you must control 
 is the aim of two ballist to shoot the forces firing upon your troops. You can win by either knocking 
 down the gate or killing all the opposing troops (I recommend the latter, so that you don't lose 
 all your troops that load the catapult) .
  
  Graphics- 6- The 3D is ok, they really needed to do a little more overlap on the ground, because 
 when you move the camera, you will see a black gap every now & again. While this doesn't destroy 
 the game or anything, it is definately something that shouldn't have been overlooked.
  
  Sound- 7- Ok sound, many things get overly repetative like the hitting/dying noises of the soldiers, 
 but they do the job they are suppose to.
  
  Value- 7- Its a good game, not bad being its only a 30 dollar game. But if you don't like risk, 
 you may wanna stay away.
  
  Tilt- 6- This really could have been better, but wasn't that bad overall. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jdsteffen
Rating: 7.1
Date: Dec 1, 2005 2:38 pm PT
Review:  Reat Time Conflict: Shogun Empires is the first attempt for a Real Time Strategy for the Nintendo 
 DS, and overall it's not Too Bad. To make a long story short, your one of two brothers fighting 
 for territory in a combination Risk/RTS game. You make choices on where to move your armies next 
 in a Risk style game, moving from one territory to the next. When you choose to attack, the game 
 moves into a Real TIme Strategy game. 
  The Real TIme Strategy part of the game is fun, but lacks a few things that could of made this 
 game great. First, you start out with troops, and do not have the option of creating more. No defensive 
 buildings, unique characters that make one side an advantage, nothing. You're also limited to one 
 group against another, so don't expect battles to span out over a decent amount of time. Plus you're 
 limited to only 3 types of characters, and you can easily win an entire battle with just archers. 
 It does have the option of upgrading your soldiers after battles with reward points you earn from 
 winning, but I didn't seem to notice much difference in performance during the battles. You can 
 also spend your reward points on an assassin, but it seemed like a waste of points. The game does 
 do a good job of keeping parts of it challenging by putting you into situations that are hard to 
 win. But almost everytime I managed to win.
  Some parts of the game allow you to try and negotiate before you fight, but this rarely works. 
 At certain parts of your turn, you jump into one of four mini games that keep the game a bit more 
 interesting, although each of them are a piece of cake after you figure out what you need to do. 
 
  Graphics in this game are decent, with room for improvement. The mini games look great, but the 
 RTS part of the game could use a little variety in colors.
  Sound in this game is great. You can hear clashing swords and guys being hit by arrows.
  The 
 other main thing that this game suffers from is difficulty. Yes its easy to pick up and play, but 
 overall, you can beat the entire game without losing a single battle. The length of the game is 
 also fairly short. I beat both sides of the game in a few hours. If the game had included around 
 4 or 5 more civilizations to play as, it probably would of had a higher replay value.
  I havn't had the chance to play this multiplayer, but it's probably a decent amount of fun and 
 challenge compared to the main game. 
  Overall it was a decent attempt at a RTS game and if you're a fan of RTS games I'd recomment picking 
 it up as it's the only RTS out for the DS as of now. Not as in-depth as it should have or could 
 have, but its still fun to play. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Alunanite
Rating: 7.2
Date: Nov 28, 2005 7:55 pm PT
Review:  Graphics: The renderings are very good for the DS, not excellent, but certainly on par with Super 
 Mario 64's redux. Especially considering the battles. The overview map is pretty basic, but it 
 still is detailed enough for the game. You basically have your color, your brother's colors, Ronin's 
 colors, and neutral and outlaw colors. Each province is either a homestead, town, seatown, or castle 
 and is shaded by the owner's color. The animations in the battles are normal, you see the arrows 
 fly and the guy the person is attacking is the guy who dies, so that all adds up logically in the 
 RTS battles. Don't expect anything gorgeous though, unless you are doing one of the mini-games. 
 Chasing down the energy general and enemy ships in sea battles are quite detailed. There are only 
 four or five different battlemaps for the land battles though.
  
  RTS: This is everything that an RTS should be command wise. You use L to toggle the minimap from 
 the action and use it to flash around the map. It is crisp, clean, and easy to use. I have had 
 no problems controlling my people with the stylus, and I hope StarCraft and Age of Empires copy 
 this format (there was no toolbar though for creating new units, as this is a Shogun: Total War 
 type game, so it remains to be seen how that will be added) . Think Total War when commanding troops. 
 Each troop engages in combat with an enemy, but you only command squads. Telling each squad where 
 to go and kill is flawless, after that not so much in depth. Its a good start for where you want 
 to see the RTS genre to go on the DS.
  
  Story: Extremely detailed backstory and plot, with some cool text dialouges about how the sun god 
 be shining on you after you win a territory. Basically you are two brothers who are out to inherit 
 this Kingdom from your dying father/shogun. He also has a magical sword (go figure) . After that 
 its all about the campaign, but it keeps you going with updates. Unfortunately you only get these 
 updates if you actually fight the battle and not have it simulated by the computer.
  
  Gameplay: This is where the game falls on a solid 7 rating, instead of a 8 or 9. There are two 
 things you do, you move armies to provinces and then fight the battles. If you move an army to 
 a castle province you have a castle siege. This is a DS mini-game where you use your stylus to 
 aim your archers at the archers on the castle walls. The idea is to kill them before they kill 
 all your catapult workers. Ideally you kill enough of them so your catapult has enough time to 
 break through the game. This can be hit or miss though you get better at it as you go along.
  
  Usually you will fight in a ground battle where squadrons of either Spearman, Swordsman, or 
 Arhcers (the last are the most useful) square off. The AI is not too difficult, but you can get 
 slaughtered if you don't pay attention. Once its obvious you will win, the battle is declared in 
 your favor and you play the 'Hunt the General' minigame. You basically chase him down on a horse 
 using your stylus and the R and L buttons to pump his ass full of arrows. I haven't found out what 
 happens if you let him escape, but if you kill him you always seem to gain an extra army. Speaking 
 of which, don't lose these as you can't make more. Finally there are sea battles fought on port 
 towns, these are like the 'Siege the Castle' minigames except you each have a boat. You aim your 
 crowssbowman and try to kill the enemy archers before they kill yours. Pretty simple.
  
  Through any of these battles you can choose to fight them yourself or choose the simulate battle 
 option. If you go with simulate battle, you don't get story updates and there is literally 50% 
 chance you lose no matter what. You can upgrade your army with your honor points all you want, 
 it makes no difference unless you actually fight the battle. Also casualities have no bearing on 
 the army after the battle is over, as long as you win it. If you lose it, the army disappears. 
 Once your lose all your armies its all over. You can hire Ninjas too for assassinations, I accidently 
 hit simulate so I am not sure how that mini-game works, but from the status report its a duel between 
 two ninjas when going for the other side's head honcho.
  
  Edit: There are also heroes in the land battles. If you hit select your Prince/Shogun/General comes 
 out to whip some ass. If he dies the game is over completely though.
  
  Overall: Its a solid RTS/Total War game, and a good show for a first try. It will start to wear 
 on you the 2nd or 3rd time you play it as the AI is really not too bright. Multiplayer will probably 
 be very fun, as its Total War sped up x10, but it needs two carts to play it so. Get the game if 
 you want a Total War experience on your handheld, or just like Ninja Duels. Otherwise you probably 
 want to wait for a more fleshed out RTS. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: metalfreak_1
Rating: 3.5
Date: Nov 28, 2005 1:36 pm PT
Review:  After seeing that an RTS was finally coming to the DS and was going to utilize the stylus, I was 
 extatic. With the success of handheld strategy games such as Fire Emblem, Advanced Wars, and the 
 not-so-well-known Mech Platoon, Shogun Warriors could have been great. However, this game falls 
 short in almost every aspect. 
  
  The game starts out at a risk-style map. You choose your army and what area you want to attack. 
 You then get options such as attack (the RTS style gameplay) , diplomacy, or castle siege. The Attack 
 option consists of 3 maps with the objective of A. Kill everything on the map or B. Take this point 
 (or kill everyone on the map) . These maps get VERY old after a few battles. Also, you only get 
 three different units and about 5 total per map. Sometimes after a battle you will play a horse 
 chase mini game, but this gets old quick. That's it. The game can be beaten in three hours. Despite 
 it's potential, this game falls short in every area.
  
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
