-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Resident Evil: Deadly Silence
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/ds/action/residentevilds/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 A faithful translation of Capcom's original survival horror classic.
 Features two playable characters plus two distinctly different single-player modes.
 Some excellent sound and music, plus voice acting that's so bad it's funny.
 Creative minigames make use of the touch screen and microphone.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 Visuals look grainy and washed out.
 Controls are clunky and can take getting used to.
 Cheesy video and dialogue don't really fit with the game's serious theme.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Feb  6, 2006
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 7.9
Critic Score: 7.1, 49 Review (s)
User Score: 8.4, 2,260 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Capcom
Genre: Horror Action Adventure
Date: Feb 7, 2006
ESRB: Mature

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
The PlayStation survival horror classic makes an unlikely appearance on the DS, complete with some 
 surprising new twists and all of the original's memorable scares. 

  Nearly 10 years after Resident Evil first shocked and amazed game players around the world, it's 
 been squished down to a portable format that preserves most of what made the original so great. 
 Resident Evil: Deadly Silence is basically a straight port of the 1996 PlayStation classic, though 
 it adds a few neat twists made possible by the Nintendo DS. While the graphical presentation isn't 
 as impressive as you'd expect from Resident Evil, it's still impressive to have the whole game 
 playable in the palm of your hand. More importantly, Resident Evil DS still packs some good freaky 
 fun, and it's a cool way for the series' newer fans to experience the game that coined the phrase 
 "survival horror."  

          Now you can take Resident Evil with you wherever you go. The 1996 horror classic still 
 holds up well to today's standards.     

  Resident Evil's story comes straight out of a horror movie -- a bad one if you judge it by the quality 
 of the so-awful-it's-funny voice acting and the cheesy full-motion video cutscenes seen in the 
 intro and endings. But apart from some dialogue that's every bit as painful as the various gruesome-looking 
 scenes of violence the game is filled with, the story of Resident Evil effectively sets the stage 
 for plenty of tense and suspenseful action. The premise is simple but compelling: The elite S. T. A. R. S. 
 alpha team is sent in to reconnoiter with bravo team, which disappeared while investigating a disturbance 
 near an old mansion. But alpha team is promptly attacked by monstrous things and forced to split 
 up. Now Chris Redfield and Jill Valentine, together with several other surviving comrades, are 
 trapped in the mansion and trying to regroup and escape. But are their conventional weapons enough 
 to protect them against the living dead? After an awkward start, the story becomes quite captivating 
 as Chris and Jill begin unraveling the mysteries of both their hideous enemies and the mansion. 

  Similarly, the gameplay feels rather clunky at first, but once you get accustomed to the controls 
 and few odd quirks, it gets fun. The action is still satisfyingly visceral after all these years, 
 so you can look forward to blasting zombies' heads off, sticking your knife into killer crows, 
 stomping baby giant spiders, and other good stuff like that. Aiming and shooting is as simple as 
 pressing and holding the right shoulder button to ready your gun, then tapping the fire button 
 to squeeze off rounds. However, the tight corridors of the mansion coupled with the relative scarcity 
 of ammo means you'll really need to make your shots count, especially since some of your foes aren't 
 as slow and lumbering as the zombies you'll frequently encounter. At least it's easy to tell where 
 you're going; the top screen on the DS persistently tracks your progress on a highly legible map. 
 The top screen also starts flashing when you're injured, a useful but somewhat distracting visual 
 cue that lets you know when you should be scrounging for a health power-up.  

  Moving around is trickier than shooting, partly because the game's cinematic camera angles can 
 be disorienting. Pressing up on the D pad always makes your character walk forward, which doesn't 
 seem intuitive at first but helps let you stay in control as the game keeps switching up camera 
 angles from one static scene to the next. This control scheme carried the Resident Evil series 
 through numerous installments, but the behind-the-back perspective of last year's amazing Resident 
 Evil 4 changed all that. If you've played RE4, you'll probably find it tough to go back to these 
 old controls.  

  A few other gameplay contrivances stick out, betraying the fact that this is an old game. Your 
 characters' inventory space is very limited, for example. Chris can only carry six items at a time, 
 so if you've got two keys, a shotgun, some spare shells, and a medicinal herb, you're practically 
 full. If your inventory's tapped, you can't just drop stuff to make room for more, but must find 
 a storage chest in which you can dump off your spare equipment. In some parts of the game, you 
 naturally wind up going back and forth through areas multiple times just because you don't have 
 enough room to transport all the stuff you find. Also, your ability to save your progress is limited 
 to the number of ink ribbons you have. You use these up at the typewriters scattered around the 
 mansion each time you save. This limited save system might seem cruel and unusual, but you'll probably 
 grow to appreciate how it helps build tension without really hurting gameplay -- besides, you'll 
 find ink ribbons in fairly generous supply. However, the inability to save at any time or as often 
 as you like means Resident Evil DS isn't really well suited for quick play sessions, which you 
 might expect out of a portable game.  

          The new first-person stabbing sequences are reminiscent of the House of the Dead series. 
 It's a jarring but entertaining addition.     

  Resident Evil DS features a classic mode that's mostly identical to the 1996 original, the updated 
 "rebirth" mode that introduces some new surprises, and a Wi-Fi mode in which up to four players 
 can either compete or cooperate as they fight through several different areas. You've also got 
 two playable characters to choose from and multiple endings to discover in the single-player modes, 
 and many more characters are unlockable for use in multiplayer, which helps create lots of lasting 
 value. The underlying gameplay is a pretty simple mix of blasting zombies and other monsters at 
 close range while solving occasional puzzles, but it's good enough to sustain multiple plays through 
 the storyline (which takes maybe six or seven hours the first time) , especially since enemy placement 
 changes depending on the mode and your character. Chris and Jill take slightly different paths 
 through the game, but apart from that they play almost identically. Jill has an easier time because 
 she can pick certain locks and carry more stuff, but Chris can take more punishment. Both will 
 need to overcome a few fairly well-thought-out puzzles besides just blasting zombies, though.  
    

   

  The game's occasional puzzles are appreciably more interesting in the rebirth mode, which challenges 
 you to use the DS touch screen and microphone in a few clever ways. For example, you'll need to 
 blow into the DS' microphone to try to resuscitate an injured team member, and you'll even need 
 to do the equivalent of that popular parlor trick where some tough guy quickly stabs a knife in 
 between his fingers without cutting his hand. Rebirth mode packs a number of neat little surprises 
 such as that, but one of the most jarring is how first-person-perspective battles occasionally 
 break out when you enter a new room. All of a sudden you'll see enemies shambling towards you. 
 You can't move, but instead must slide across or poke at the touch screen to slash at your foes 
 with your knife. These bits seem really tacked on at first but they're pretty entertaining, especially 
 since you can perform flashy-looking critical hits by hacking at your enemies the instant before 
 they hit you.  

          It doesn't take that long to finish Resident Evil once, but there's plenty of good reason 
 to go back through this game multiple times.     

  The rebirth mode is generally more action-packed than the classic mode, forcing you to take on 
 more monsters but also giving you a lot more ammo -- but that doesn't automatically make it better, 
 since having to really watch your ammo while not knowing whether something's going to jump out 
 at you around the next corner is what Resident Evil's always been about. Having more enemies to 
 fight gradually just lessens the impact of each individual encounter. At any rate, it's worth playing 
 through both modes if only to appreciate the differences.  

  Some unlockable extras give you further incentive to explore the single-player modes, but you've 
 also got the multiplayer options to consider. You need from two to four players (each with a DS 
 and a copy of the game) in order to play these, and you can choose either a versus or cooperative 
 game type. These modes can be a good diversion but aren't quite what you'd probably hope for, especially 
 since other players are depicted on your screen as large colored stars, rather than as other operatives 
 running and gunning alongside you. Both multiplayer modes put you in one of several different maps 
 based heavily on areas from the single-player storyline, and whether you're playing cooperatively 
 or not, you're still trying to reach the goal area as quickly as possible within a time limit. 
 The difference is, in the versus mode you can indirectly slow your opponent down by shooting certain 
 types of foes, while in co-op, you share the same health meter and have other incentives to work 
 closely with your allies. Since you can't directly interact with other players, let alone see them, 
 the multiplayer modes in Resident Evil DS aren't inherently that engaging. But they're a nice extra. 

          The graphics aren't jaw-dropping, but they definitely get the point across. And the gory 
 bits are still nice and gross.     

  When Resident Evil first appeared on the PlayStation, its incredible 3D graphics did a lot to draw 
 players in. On the DS, the game still looks good if not particularly impressive, mostly because 
 the prerendered backgrounds look plain and grainy on the system's small screen. Thankfully, the 
 3D characters moving around in the environments are more detailed, and the game's gore effects 
 are as over the top as ever. Fans will even spot some new animations in the rebirth mode. It's 
 remarkable that all the content of Resident Evil now fits onto a tiny DS game card, but it's still 
 a bit of a shame that the visuals suffered some in translation. Meanwhile, the audio is completely 
 intact, including all that bad dialogue that's just as amusing today as ever. There's plenty of 
 eerie music throughout the game, along with some terrific sound effects, like the chilling "clack, 
 clack, clack" of some of your foes' clawed footsteps. The audio isn't just for show, either -- it's 
 often the only indication you'll get that there's danger lurking nearby. The excellent stereo separation 
 on the DS also helps you to use sound to your advantage, since you can actually hear where a noise 
 is coming from relative to your character.  

  You know a game's a classic when you can play it years later and still have a great time. Resident 
 Evil: Deadly Silence is surprisingly successful at translating the scary bits of the original to 
 a much smaller format, and the end result has a lot to offer Resident Evil fans as well as those 
 who've always wondered what the fuss is about. You wouldn't expect a portable game to be able to 
 scare you, especially since this version's visuals simply aren't on par with the cutting-edge graphics 
 Resident Evil is known for. But Resident Evil DS packs in a lot of gory, atmospheric moments. It's 
 pretty wild that now you can play a game like this on the go.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (231 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: OverlordEX
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 28, 2009 1:06 pm PT
Review:  This game is great. It has the best graphics I have ever seen on the DS, even though the backgrounds 
 are a little washed out, the rest looks incredible. One of the nice graphical touches is the way 
 spent bullet casings fly out of your gun, and bounce around the environment for a few seconds making 
 very realistic *CLINK* noises. Which brings me to the sound. The incredible detail put into the 
 sound effects is apparent. In the entry hall, which is one of the largest rooms in the game, everything 
 sounds suitably hollow and echoey. The voice acting is some of the worst I have ever heard, but 
 in a good way. It provides some "comic relief" if you need that kind of thing. The gameplay is 
 solid, even though the control scheme is very confusing at the start of the game it's really the 
 only thing that could be used in this type of game. And once you get used to it, it gets really 
 easy to use. This game has some very memorable startling moments in it, and when the zombies moan, 
 it sends shivers down your spine. My bottom line is: if you can handle a lot of gore, and jumping 
 near out of your seat, buy this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: penspot
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 16, 2009 12:20 am PT
Review:  Most DS games you buy are like travel games or something to kill time with when you are at your 
 grandmother's house. But not Resident Evil DS. The fun factor and interesting story, and lack of 
 many save points require you to keep going a little further until you play longer than you expected.
 
  
  I rented this game for the playstation years ago. When I sat down to play it, I only played it 
 for 10 minutes and took it back to the store. I had played RE2 before it and I felt like I was 
 downgrading to something not as good. Doing that gave me a good opportunity to try game for the 
 DS. 
  
  Being able to SKIP the door opening between rooms is better so you don't get so frustrated. That 
 was a feature I really liked.
  
  I'm glad I got this game, this game was so much fun, i spent so many hours playing the game. this 
 game had a lot of replay value. And for a handheld, the graphics are great. I'm itching to try 
 cooperative mode though. I need to find someone who has this game. I am from TX and my friend from 
 CA has this game so WIFI co-op would of made this game a 10. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GenXPm
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 27, 2008 3:54 am PT
Review:  Resident evil Deadly silence is a great game from the start of the great series of resident evil 
 with the series hero's/heroine's Barry, Jill, Chris and Rebecca and the most odd bad guy spoilers 
 Albert Wesker spoilers who's coming back inthe new title Resident evil 5 which is a must, with 
 its cheesy voice acting to the script and featuring classic lines like you were almost a Jill sandwich, 
 this game is perfect for an experience for horror on the go with the original game from the PSX 
 with some little features to using the touch, REbirth was a great feature to add more puzzles and 
 the adding of the knifing to make the game a tad harder, The masters of knifing is a great mini-game 
 to unlock god knows what but a great pass time and the graphics are great for the DS with Yawn 
 not looking too bad and the hunters looking great for the killers they are. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ston3henge
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 18, 2008 7:02 pm PT
Review:  There are certain games which, though they are not the first of their kind, can be called the epicenter 
 of a gaming movement. 
  
  Back in 1996, "Resident Evil" caught my eye like a viciously whipped fish hook. Having grown up 
 in the 70s and 80s on George Romero movies like "Night of the Living Dead" which sent me to bed 
 with the closet light on more than a few times, it had always been some sort of masochistic dream 
 to be thrown into a zombie-infested landscape, sink or swim, to blaze a path to safety. Up until 
 "Resident Evil" on the PSOne, the only horror games out there were games like "SplatterHouse", 
 "Zombies Ate My Neighbors", or the game creditted as the first Survival Horror "Alone in the Dark" 
 - A game who's polygon count probably registered in the low 100s. They were either action games 
 hiding behind some blood or darn-near point-and-click Find'n'Fetch adventures mascarading as action, 
 but none of it was well-balanced and certainly none of it was very horrifying (outside of the controls, 
 that is) .
  
  "Resident Evil" was different. Though the game certainly wasn't perfect, it was one of the few 
 titles that would keep my roommate and I infront of the television from dusk til dawn playing... 
 and sweating, and biting our lower lip off, nerves shot from being so on edge.
  
  And while the game would take a few turns I didn't appreciate at the time plot-wise (zombies and 
 dogs were enough, "we (didn't) need the Umbrella Corporation messing it up with SciFi & Cloak'n'Dagger 
 bally-hoo", I thought at the time - How WRONG I was!) , and the voice acting was then as it is now 
 some of the most laughable in the entire industry, the first "Resident Evil" is still pound-for-pound 
 one of the high water marks ever made in the name of scares coming from a game. The port of this 
 landmark game has come to the DS, after a face-lift on the GameCube and countless sequels and spin-offs... 
 could the original, "un-upgraded" game still hold magic on a tiny screen well over a decade later? 
 My answer is a solid and smiling "Yes".
  
  There will be some people who prefer the new RE4 presentation, making the game more shooter-friendly, 
 but the gameplay in the old cinematic style with it's limited resources of ammo and other supplies 
 made for a delicate balance of shooter vs. puzzles, and heightened my over-all tension factor... 
 I'm happy to say that it's all here in being not as much here, if that makes any sense. The feeling 
 of being under-powered keeps you from being overly brave, and that's what being in a horror game 
 should be about.
  
  Just like in the original version of the game, you can choose between Jill or Chris, with each 
 character having their strengths and weaknesses (although Jill is STILL "the Master of Unlocking"!) 
 and each has their limited plot branching. The graphics are spot-on from the pre-rendered backrounds 
 to the maddening camera angle shifts at poorly timed moments, every last detail of the original 
 is here in this smaller, more portable version. The sound is exact, with haunting synth ambience 
 music and jarring action cues and nicely attentive effects. The dialogue, as previously stated, 
 is terrible... but it's all here. I'm not sure if they re-recorded some of it because it doesn't 
 quite jibe with my memory of the game, but if they DID re-record it, they got the same stilted 
 performance out of the actors as if the director had been hospitalized and the production got finished 
 unsupervised.
  
  I was worried about control and presentation on the smaller screen and with the smaller control 
 surface of the DS Lite, but it turns out there was no cause for alarm... the character controls 
 very well and combat is not nearly the chore I expected it might be... in fact I have found that 
 it has been easier this time through. They may have made some allowances for the platform in the 
 programming when it comes to aiming, but it never feels clunky or put-up like auto-targetting can 
 feel in a hand-held port of a console title. The touch screen comes in handy when combining stuff 
 in your inventory or shifting contents around... they still have some of the goofy menu shifting 
 in order to do certain things with your stuff, but again that's how it was in the original version 
 so I wouldn't want them to change it here. The touch screen is also used for some knife slashing 
 in an FPS view, but it feels tacked on and frankly you'll probably never bother shifting to it 
 in combat. One other thing about the knife - It's actually VERY useful in this version wielded 
 either way (again, they might have amped it up a bit for this version but I couldn't say for sure) .
 
  
  In addition to the same unlockable costumes and other minor goodies of the original game, they 
 have packed in a Survival mode which makes the game a little more shooter-friendly for people who 
 just wanna blow stuff away, upping the monsters, changing item locations, and altering the quest 
 in other ways to freshen it... a nice little bonus considering how much game is already on this 
 cart.
  
  In short, the game is a classic, and if you consider yourself a fan of the genre but haven't played 
 it... then, well, shame on you. But here it is, you don't need to buy a used PSOne to play it either... 
 and it fits in your pocket. So go ahead, pick it up, turn out the lights, and come back with me 
 to 1996.
  
  It's a killer place to be! "Itchy... taaasty..." 
::::::

::::::
UserName: InsultToInjury_
Rating: 7.5
Date: Nov 18, 2008 5:03 am PT
Review:  This game has been out for a while now. It was the reason I bought a DS and the first game I purchased 
 for it. I did this because with being a fan of the series I had to play this game and yet having 
 playing every RE game to date this one for being a lil ol' port of the RE1 classic did not disapoint.
 
  
  We all join the STARS gang like in a Scooby Do cartoon. In a haunted thunder sounding mantion, 
 with eerie sound effects to boot. Depending on who you play either as Jill Valentine or Chris Redfield 
 the story will differ which also gives you the satifaction of getting more gameplay out of it as 
 you combat the story on all modes possible. 
  
  They game makes good use of the DS touch screen features. I said this game is a port, that is bending 
 the truth slightly depending on which mode you play it on you will face knife fight sequences and 
 new puzzles. 
  
  As fans of the series will expect the dodgy voice acting and PS1 graphics are all still there and 
 it looks great on the DS. Some people may not appreciate the sheer cheesyness of it all but I tell 
 you - 1998 was the year to be scared when the original came out. 
  
  Overall you will get many an hour gameplay out of this if you wish to see the story from all angles. 
 Depending on how you play the story will differ each time with various endings etc. You need to 
 be patience as there is a lot of collecting keys and running about. But this is all part of the 
 RE way.
  
  New fans of the game will enjoy playing the classic if they never got a chance to back when it 
 was released and old skool fans will enjoy the terrible voice acting of Barry and co and also take 
 the original on a slightly new spin. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: masterarbider
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jul 18, 2008 12:12 pm PT
Review:  While there are some minor flaws the game has made a great transition to the ds. The game also 
 features a new mode of play,"Rebirth Mode". This enables more thrills nand fun. With two characrters, 
 two modes of play, four different endings, co-op, and multiplayer, the game's replay value is very 
 high. Even if your not a fan, BUY IT! Also you should check into "Dementium: The Ward" for the 
 ds, just as fun. The story has very few changes from the GC and PSone versions. The game takes 
 about 10-11 hours for your first time and about 4-5 for your second and beyond. Some scary moments 
 that will catch you off guard.
  
  The four person co-op adds a new mode for RE and the master of knifing game are both fun. With 
 co-op you will share a life bar with your friends and when someone kills an enemy the enemy is 
 dead to all players. You trade items with item boxes and have about 6-8 characters that once unlocked 
 you can use, all with different talents and features. In master of knifing you choose from two 
 characters and fight through five stages of zombie knifing horror. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Reeper42
Rating: 9
Date: Jul 11, 2008 10:25 am PT
Review:  This game is one of my favorite games on the ds. if you didnt play the Psone version heres your 
 chance and even if did you should pick up this game. There are to mode you can play, you can play 
 the classic mode or the rebirth mode. the rebirth mode is a differnt style of play. In some places 
 you go into this first person view and use your knife to kill the zombies. after you kill them 
 you can get a clip or herb sometimes in classic mode you dont. in rebirth mode ther are little 
 puzzle boxes that you try to open which sometimes is a challenge. the graphic are a little washed 
 out and the zombies AI is ackward. all the zombies at times while coming at you will all of a sudden 
 turn another direction so its easy to pass them but youll want to kill them. in rebirth mode there 
 are differnt zombies in differnt places. the replay value in this is good i played 4 times with 
 out careing because of the classic mode and rebirth mode an the 2 diffculties. i would recamend 
 this game to any one who likes shooters and horor games. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: loopy_101
Rating: 8
Date: Dec 17, 2008 4:19 pm PT
Review:  Resident Evil, you've come a long way since entering that mansion way back in 1996. From the Playstation, 
 the Saturn, The N64 and the Gameboy, you've certainly effected many gamers with your vast supply 
 of influential games, and now Nintendo DS. 
  
  Cool right? Very. Resident Evil Deadily Silence (or DS for short) offers the original Resident 
 Evil on Nintendo DS. All of the game has been remastered and restored. The graphics, sound and 
 gameplay of the original survival horror game on Psone comes to life on Nintendo DS, hell bent 
 with fury, and of course, a few changes also.
  
  So what exactly makes this DS version unique from every other version of Resident Evil? Is this 
 just a straight port? Yes and no. The game is designed to take advantage of the DS' hardware and 
 does a good job in doing so. 
  
  As a result, we have new puzzles and gameplay elements created by the DS microphone, touch screen 
 and general dual screen access. For those who have been away for the past 10 years, Resident Evil 
 is a survival horror adventure game that revolves solely on how the player approaches issues throughout 
 the game.
  
  Ways in Capcom make this game a challenge and a interesting game compared to other games at the 
 time, is that you could only carry so many items at a certain time, depending on who your character 
 was. Also, the game made simple tasks like finding health and save points, which were generally 
 taken for granted before the release of the game, sparsely spread out, provoking a strategic way 
 of playing the game. items had be carried then consumed, if you ran out of space you would have 
 to go without.
  
  Capcom have gone all out to impress DS gamers and RE fans out there with a vivid presentation and 
 array of settings and modes, which pays homage to the good ole' N64 version of Resident Evil 2. 
 If you aren't accustomed to the new DS changes, Capcom have made it an option to have these features 
 as "Rebirth mode" as well as the old game in portable form as "cla$$ic mode"
  
  When I said this game was a straight port however, I meant it, as gameplay elements from the future 
 Resident Evil games aren't featured in this re-release of Resident Evil, despite fixes made to 
 this version compared to the rest. An example being the inability to drop weapons or use items 
 that you've immediately picked up, a feature gamers met with much relief in Resident Evil 4. 
 
  
  Also, it seems that Ink ribbons are featured in this game, where as they were completely rid of 
 in future RE releases, although is likely intentional to keep the game in the survival horror genre 
 instead of action adventure.
  
  The game also involves a little exploring and trial and error, something that may bore some gamers 
 new to the franchise. However, the amount of guns on show with full gore and blood are certain 
 to please the casual action gamer when they play this game. Also, since this is a Psone port of 
 Resident Evil, the game has retained all the comical video and voice acting sequences made famous 
 in the original. 
  
  Some gamers will dislike it, and agreeably it takes away the serious approach made in the future 
 RE games what people are now used to, but it ultimately shows RE isn't afraid to admit its B horror 
 movie roots. Plus, it will bring back good memories of those gamers who want to imagine a Jill 
 Sandwich...: P
  
  However, the big flaw is, this is dated. This has already been hinted several times, and RE gamers 
 themselves will find this game to be a little weak, especially the ones who joined in after the 
 Resident Evil 2. There is no stopping references between this game and the newest releases and 
 the fact remains the same; this would've been better off as a remake than a re-release. Everything 
 will feel old in this game for Resident Evil fans and it is hard to not find the presentation, 
 even with its alterations in this DS version to be slightly quirky and undoubtedly hilarious.
 
  
  Graphics feel generally good, although not exceptional by any means. The characters look great in 
 their improved 3D looks with details on both clothing and hair, but the pre-rendered backgrounds 
 look poor in comparison and are pixelated, this is worse of an issue on Nintendo DS with its brighter 
 and bolder colours. 
  
  Also, the movies and sound do appear to be compressed a little shaky, likely due to being produced 
 before Act images Video Coding was introduced to DS games. However, these problems are never noticeable 
 or annoying enough to disrupt the experience and the game still proves to be enjoyable nevertheless.
 
  
  So, with that in mind. Resident Evil DS is worthy of a Purchase. The new-comers to the series may 
 be shocked by the immense differences in terms of design between this and the newer, more famous 
 games in the series. Old school gamers on the other hand will be in for a real treat, and those 
 with a nostalgic enough of a sense to actually pick this game up will be playing what was the best 
 gaming had to offer, once again.
  
  Even in its ageing condition, Resident Evil DS proves to be one of the most defining experiences 
 for Nintendo DS and might possibly prove to be one of those games that creates the changing point 
 for the system. It's surprising what potential can be found in old games on new consoles...
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: HappyGamingNerd
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jul 5, 2008 11:54 am PT
Review:  Resident Evil DS is a port of the original Ps1 version (wich ive never played before) with some 
 new bonuses like the touch screen knifing and a new rebirth mode with some new puzzles and monsters. Resident 
 Evil is good, but sometimes a little frustrating, because your ammo is low and you dont have enough 
 ink ribbons for example. You can also play the original Classic mode. Its fun to kill zombies in 
 the game, and other creatures and the knife mode is awesome. You can also unlock Master of knifing 
 minigame wich i havent unlocked yet.. because i havent played it trough yet. You can play as a girl 
 agent jill (Normal mode) or Chris (Hard-Mode) . You can also choose how the story ends. Its good the 
 play Again the game with Chris, because the game is totally different with chris, the keys are in 
 other places, some weapons arent even there and so on. The Game doesent scare me at all because of 
 the cheesy dialogue and the monsters look like nickelodeon monsters, so they dont scary you at all. 
 (a user here in gamespot mentioned it before and i agree with him :) ) Its also fun to do the puzzles 
 with the new touch screen mode :) .
  
  Anyway, Resident Evil DS is a good survival horror game that you will play long enough... but if 
 you dont like such type of genre then you wont like this at all.
  
  I give it a 7.5 because it has some tiny flaws and sometimes is frustrating. But still a good game. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Junior_AIN
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 23, 2008 9:25 pm PT
Review:  I've been a Nintendo maniac throughout my whole life, so my first encounter with a Resident Evil 
 game was with the second one, which was released for the Nintendo 64, because of that I lost the 
 true beginning of the series, of course we were granted the great remake in the GameCube era, and 
 that's am excellent game, but it's always good to play a classic in it's true form, and that's 
 what you get here, a classic in it's primordial form, and better, portable!
  
  Now, Resident Evil is a perfect game to be ported to a handheld, especially the first, the graphics 
 weren't great, at least not for today's standards, at the time they were hot stuff; the mechanics 
 fit well in a handheld with no analog stick, it's the good old Resident Evil controls that many 
 learned to hate, and some, like me, still love; two screens, one for navigation and the other holds 
 the action, no touching features though, not that it was necessary, nor it was unneeded, it's just 
 the way it should be, for a brand new Resident Evil game the touching screen must be used properly, 
 but this is not the case because the game's beauty ends up being it's classic appeal.
  
  If you played the original, and don't feel inclined to go through the whole game again, maybe the 
 addition of a "rebirth mode", which includes some new twists, and a Wi-Fi multiplayer mode, change 
 your mind.
  
  So the whole package is there, all the zombies, rooms, sounds and atmosphere that crafted a perfect 
 gloomy ambiance, thrilling and creepy, it's Resident Evil in it's true form and ported magnificently, 
 no fan of the old series formula should miss this one, a classic in portable form, ready to be 
 played anywhere you go! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: aggelos6
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jun 11, 2008 6:28 am PT
Review:  I cannot deny that when i heard that a RE game would come for the handheld of Nintendo , i was 
 a bit worried. I thought that i wouldn't be able to scary us because of the console's small screen. 
 I was WRONG.
  From the first minutes of the game it becomes obvious that Deadly Silence has everything a horror 
 fan asks for : Terrifying monsters , incredible music and an empty place (empty of people , because 
 the monsters are plenty) where death is behind every corner. The graphics could have been better 
 but they are satisfactory .As for the gameplay, there is the rebirth mode that makes a good use 
 of the touch screen. Now the puzzles are solved much easily and there is a new combat style which 
 allows to slash zombies with your knife using the touch screen when you enter the room. There is 
 also multiplayer which is exciting and is the main reason i've played the game for such a long 
 time the game. While playing , you will unlock new playable characters (for multiplayer) . This is 
 extremely addictive and you will probably get stuck until you unlock all of them. Furthermore after 
 you finish the game, you will surely play it for a second or even third time in order to see the 
 multiple endings, wear other costumes and play with the other playable character. On the other hand, the 
 gameplay doesn't really differ from the original's. Even the option to slash zombies can be annoying 
 as it stops the action. Moreover the multiplayer is kept from being perfect because the other players 
 are shown as stars and not properly. 
  In general ,however, it is a great game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: NinjaBrownie
Rating: 8.5
Date: May 21, 2008 6:02 pm PT
Review:  The DS is ons game system that doesn't see many horror/action games. You could play Dementium, 
 or sit through Monster House, but I suggest you don't.
  
  The original Resident Evil game started its own genre of horror-survival-and for good reasons too. 
 If you want a good remake of the original at yor finger tips, then look no further. 
  
  The storyline is truly like something out of a Stephan King book; a zombie outbreak occurs and 
 a research team is sent in to servey the biohazard of the dead Raccoon City. The only problem is 
 that they have an accident, and all the people who were there are eithir dead or a walking corpse 
 who craves flesh. So it's your team who's sent in to look for any survivors, but no one told you 
 what kind of hell you would be up against. When chased into a somewhat "empty" house by zombies, 
 it's up to you to solve the mysteries of Umbrella and find a way to escape with your life.
  
  Armed with only a handgun, a knife, and a backpack that only holds 7 items, the feeling of 
 being rushed pumps the adreniline forcing you in desperate corners at points in the game. The thrils 
 are high, along with the stakes, and the background music keeps your heart racing when in the heat 
 of battle. The re-made design and playability is better than the original, and the knife battles 
 against the undead that inhabit the deathly mansion are entertaining. But, what's wrong with the 
 game?
  
  The controls suck, and takes some time to getting used to. The forward is backwarsd and vis versa. 
 And when put into a battle with little health and nothing but 3 bullets left, it can get a little 
 tricky. Another thing that sucks is the save spots. Save spots usually don't get bad reviews as 
 often as gameplay or othet important stuff, but in this game it does. Even if you find a save spot, 
 you might not be able to save, unless, that is, if you have a special ink roll. There are only 
 a couple in the game, so players cannot waste them. It requires a lot of plannin to decide when 
 to save and when not to. For example, your character has low health and no herbs. You just got 
 the key to a unlocked room, but don't know what lies in it. You only have one ink roll left, and 
 don't know where to get more at. You know if you die you have to do what progress you made over 
 again. What do you do?
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: i_am_game99
Rating: 4
Date: Feb 29, 2008 2:58 pm PT
Review:  OMG. omg... this game is c-r-a-p. Its proberly the worst game i have ever played on the DS. It 
 ishorrible, a nightmare remake of the playstation version. The graphics are terrible, the gameplay 
 its pretty bad, and the controls are horrific.
  
  Whoever designed this game should be ashamed, i almost cryed at how bad this game is. I have enjoyed 
 playing prevoues RE game such as 4 and i love the movies, but this game is just disgusting. Do 
 not buy it, dont even think about buying it, if you have it-sell it.
  
  It has some good vidios, normal repeated RE storyline, but even if you are a RE fan this game is 
 not worth buying. Not much else to say about this game exept its bad bad badbadbadbabbad.
  
  THis game now fits under the list of the worst games i have ever played, mabye one of the worst 
 in history, it makes big rigs over the road racing look good. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: saskue327
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jun 6, 2008 10:27 pm PT
Review:  resident evil deadly silence takes the plot from the re1 where alpha team has to investigate a 
 mansion while trying to find bravo team members.
  Gameplay-there are loads of new stuff on here and a minigame also, sometimes when you enter a room 
 you go in fps and fight zombies with a knife and try to repel if you do correctly and dont get 
 hurt you might get a herb ammo etc etc. you also solve some puzzles with a touch screen which is 
 kinda cool, but gets frustrating in some times.
  Graphics-graphics been a little bit upgraded which is good
  Sound-sound a little bad but you 
 will get over it. and at the end you get a mini game called masters of knifing, cool eh.
  
  If you are a re fan or just someone whos new to this game get it will grow on you and you will 
 be playing again and again 
  
  P. S lets just hope so capcom makes one for re2 or re3 
::::::

::::::
UserName: catmen122
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 29, 2008 9:27 am PT
Review:  here is to one of the ds m rated game on the ds and the hope that the game is as good as the resident 
 evil game on the ps2 and the game is good but i would like to play it my self and in the off chance 
 of that i can play or own the game but you should e-mail me for an update on the game is for you 
 and for the the halo 3 fan you will like like the game so have fun and thanks for reading this 
 review. and the game is fun and the game play is great to do the more time you spend on the game 
 the more you can go deeper into the story and the fun will start when you turn off the light and 
 start to play the game so if you like to shoot zombies and monsters the game is for you but the 
 fact that the game is gory and is what make a game so good so i hope that you will like it so if 
 this review is good 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Leonidas123
Rating: 4.5
Date: Jan 8, 2008 7:20 pm PT
Review:  This game is a total copy of the initial game, including C-graded animations and poor voice acting. 
 You can imagine just how much fun it is to move around with 3D characters on 2D backgrounds on 
 an 3" view screen (the upper one is reserved for map) . When the camera zooms in really close the 
 image turns into a pixelfest, which looks really ugly. The same can be said about sound, which 
 is the same as playstation one, and often sounds like MIDI music. What's worse, crappy DS speakers 
 simply can't keep up. Headphones are a must.
  
  The other problems are fixed camera, digital control scheme, which makes it hard to move around 
 and shoot accurately, and the save game system, which allows you to save on typewriters IF you 
 have ink ribbons left. This is very frustrating, since you'll die often and because of the stupid 
 save system, you'll often have to waste 30 minutes or more just to get back to the point of death. 
 Not something I appreciate on a handheld at all.
  
  You have multiple game modes, of which classic is a 100% conversion of Resident Evil game, which 
 will appeal only to absolute worshippers of the game. The other game mode, "rebirth", is more interesting 
 and action packed, as you get to use the microphone (blow candles) and the touchscreen (for slicing 
 zombies) . Again very basic usage of the DS capabilities.
  
  The local multiplayer requires each player to have his own cartridge of the game. Needless to say, 
 this makes it completely and utterly useless, since there is a pretty good chance you'll never 
 find another player with this game.
  
  To conclude, RE simply doesn't come to light with this latest conversion. Capcom should've made 
 a totally different kind of game, because pure horror games are not that hot anymore, and even 
 the tiny little bit of it is lost on a 3" screen. I just wasn't scared.
  
  But why bother with a review, when the subtitle says it all: deadly silence is all that will be 
 left of this game after a while.
  
  4.5/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sycosis5
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 23, 2007 4:18 am PT
Review:  Well this game gets a mixed review from me. I'm a Resident Evil mark and love the games. The game 
 has a terrific story and has everything the PlayStation, Saturn and Nintendo 64 game had. The game 
 also has some new features like knifing with the stylus, This adds some urgency when knifing them. 
 There are 2 modes in the game. Normal and Rebirth mode. Normal is a straight port of the PlayStation 
 origional and Rebirth is a new action packed version which you Knife with the stylus, Blow into 
 the mic and solve puzzles with the stylus. The voice acting in this game is horrible and is hilarious. 
 It actualy made me laugh ona few ocasions. I like the voice acting for some reason it makes the 
 game feel like a Shaun Of The Dead or Slither type game.
  
  Overall the game is great I give it a 9/10 and a high recomendation 
::::::

::::::
UserName: PrimeHunter30
Rating: 7
Date: Dec 10, 2007 11:28 am PT
Review:  I'm going to be brief but harsh. 
  
  Firstly the combat. There was a good selection of weapons and some good additions. But the way 
 they were handled wasn't exactly ten out of ten material. The controls were fiddly and there was 
 a bad aiming system. In fact there was no aiming system, you just had to turn in the direction 
 of your enemy and fire like mad. 
  In a way this was good because it was easier to kill your enemies. But it also made it hard to 
 turn around and kill them before they attacked you. Furthermore the damage system was rubbish. 
 I shot a wall where a hunter was standing at with a bazooka and it did not do one bit of damage. 
 After that it still wasn't aware that I was there. However the damage an enemy inflicts on you was 
 clever. It depended on where they hit you which meant you had to be extra careful when you were 
 in battle because the damage could range from a small 4 hit points to an instant kill. You never 
 knew.
  But again outweighting the balance was the way weapons were portrayed and the effect they had on 
 the environment. As mentioned before if you shoot at an enemy with a bazooka it is not going to 
 stand there and stare into blankness. It should get knocked back or attack you. And if you shoot 
 the wall there will be some damage. I know it is only a DS game but it should at least attempt 
 these things.
  
  One aspect of the combat I did enjoy though was the knife battles. They are a great way to stock 
 up on items like herbs and ammo and were almost the only chance to use the touch screen purposely.
 
  
  Secondly I have to comment on the music. What is going on there? Some tunes are quite catchy but 
 most are just really bad and repetitive and boring. I also managed to pin the fear factor not to 
 the monsters and winding corridors but the music and sound effect. So if you turn the music off 
 it almost loses all of its horror rating. This may not be the same for you.
  
  Thirdly there is the storyline. I actually have to give this credit despite all of those wierd 
 notes and stories about the dreaded 'T Virus' (They are quite creepy) because the background of 
 the story and the initial finding your teammates dying or dead is honestly intresting and has many 
 twists in it.
  
  Finally there are the puzzles. These were incredibly addictive and I found them fun. They are yet 
 another excuse to use the touch screen (something barely seen in this game) and make up the game 
 and the story. Without them the game would be nothing. 
  The multiplayer levels are quite poor but the addition of 'The master of knifing' mini game softens 
 the blow. The graphics are fairly average but it is the game play that really matters.
  
  Overall it is not a bad game. Many imperfections but it may well be impossible to get a perfect 
 DS game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tsurubami
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 22, 2007 9:31 am PT
Review:  If you have played through the original countless times like me, this is a must-buy. Not only is 
 it nice to have Resident Evil in the palm of your hand, but this version warrants at least two 
 more playthroughs with the Rebirth mode (as both Jill and Chris) . My score of 10/10 is of course 
 very biased as this game brings so much nostalgia to me, being my favourite game since childhood. 
 Some people hate the controls, the camera-angles and so on. For me, the camera-angles are paying 
 homage to Night of the Living Dead, and the controls just add to the tension. I love everything 
 about this game. However if the only RE title you have played is RE 4 then I can't guarantee you 
 will enjoy this one as the first 3 are very different. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mao6542
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 12, 2007 10:59 pm PT
Review:  This is newer version that includes all of the old-school feeling. With both the rebirth and classic 
 mode, it makes for a nice change if you so desire. The game-play and graphics are almost identical 
 to the PS1's and has a few extra puzzles and twists along the way. The multiplayer modes are solid 
 with many characters available to unlock. It includes a master of knifing game that lets you take 
 on stages strictly with the use of the knife (the ds pen) . I would recommend it to any Resident 
 Evil Fan and also to those new to the series. Its replay value is fair, if your desire is to end 
 up unlocking all of the characters available for multiplayer modes. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: connor4536
Rating: 8
Date: Nov 9, 2007 2:28 am PT
Review:  It's always nice to see a remake of a classic survival horror game. The Gamecube remake was delicious 
 in every way. This doesn't quite match up to that but it's still the only way to play Resi on a 
 portable.
  
  The graphics have been spruced up quite a bit since the Playstation, particularly when it comes 
 to animation. It's still very pixellated, though.
  
  Deadly Silence manages to carry over the ambience over from the first game. You really do feel 
 like you're stuck in a mansion full of zombies. Wear headphones for the best effect.
  
  There aren't enough new features to excite old fans to play through again. That said, who doesn't 
 want a knife fight with a giant snake? The bad acting has been carried over too! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Linik0007
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 2, 2007 4:51 pm PT
Review:  Lets just put this in short words, it not like resident evil for the game cube at all, its like 
 the one for the PS1, so you will not encounter any of the new spooky and challenging puzzles, but 
 have to go back to 1996 standerds, there is some new content on the Rebirth mode but not alot, 
 although, the game is a all around good game, the graphics look great for DS standards, the game 
 plays well, and its only 19.99! now what more could you want?
  
  but when you beat this game once or twice you wont want to come back because it gets boring, fast.
 
  
  If your a resident evil fan who wants to re visit the mainsion, this game is a must buy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DreFullCircle
Rating: 8.5
Date: Oct 26, 2007 10:36 pm PT
Review:  Resident Evil has a definite place in history. If you owned a Playstation or a Sega Saturn in the 
 mid-90's, you HAD to have this game. My older brother had it on the Saturn, and I played every 
 second of it with the lights on. The game pushed the envelope and had the truest cinematic horror 
 feel of it's time. Numerous games have copied the formula in one way or another over the years, 
 but none is as cemented in video game culture as RE. A decade after it's original release, it has 
 been ported to Nintendo's handheld intact, becoming one of the first M-rated games for the DS, 
 and another fine port in the console's library. For the uninitiated, RE tells the story of a series 
 of unfortunate events that would make Lemony Snicket blush, leading to the outbreak of zombies, 
 giant baby spiders (which are giant themselves) , undead dogs, and a host of other creatures which 
 are vicious enough in real life, and even worse mutated or reanimated. It is up to you, as either 
 Chris Redfield or Jill Valentine to get to the bottom of things, and more importantly, stay alive. 
 You will have a selection of weapons to defend yourself, but your most important tool is your mind 
 to solve RE's puzzles. The beauty of the game is you'll solve puzzles without realizing it. The 
 ribbon save feature is still here, but it's not needed with the sleep feature and portability of 
 the DS. It does add somewhat of a sense of strategy. Also still here is the herb system where you 
 make your own health packs and antidotes. New the DS is a Rebirth mode, which is an action-oriented 
 version of the game with first-person sequences and other new content. Also available is a mini-game 
 called Master of Knifing where you slash zombies with a knife by swiping your stylus or finger 
 across the touchscreen. The game also includes a multiplayer mode, but I haven't tried it, seeing 
 as how the game is hard to find and reqires two or more game carts. The game could have utilized 
 download play by actually loading during doorway transition sequences, which can thankfully be 
 skipped in this version. In terms of presentation, the game includes all of the music, spoken dialog 
 and FMV sequences from the original, which instantly brings back memories around every corner. 
 It's not surpising, seeing as how the DS cart hold more than a CD. The graphics are actually better 
 than the original. The smaller screen makes the game look less rough than the poorly aged console 
 versions. The first person sequences look nice, as they are built from the ground up for the DS. 
 While the dialog and acting in the FMV's seem even cheesier today than ever, it's still impressive 
 to have them fully intact on the go. Everything you loved or hated about RE is back on the DS. 
 While it doesn't add enough new features for my taste, such as single cart play, what it does include 
 is the entire game that breathed new life into the horror game genre. that's good enough for me, 
 and it should be for anyone old enough to remember the original. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: CreatureRising
Rating: 8.5
Date: Sep 28, 2007 3:07 pm PT
Review:  Ok lets get this outa the way Deadly Silence is a remake of the PS1 classic so thats outa the way. The 
 game follows you as a team of guys going to look for Bravo team who were on the trail of some murders 
 hideout but they have been a bit quiet Deadly Quiet so your going in to see if there ok and stuff 
 when creatures attack via a cutscene and you escape into a huge mansion. In the mansion you discover 
 a Zombie eating one of your squad mates and thats when the action kicks in. (and also it says as 
 soon as you start the game THIS GAME CONTAINS EXPLICIT VIOLENCE AND GORE aka that means more of 
 what fans of the series want) Graphics-ok but sence its on the DS and a remake there kinda bad 
 (6.5)
  Gameplay-awesome lots of killing zombies (8.9)
  controls-complicated but they work when you get used to them (7.3)
  sound-ok but not the greatest (7.0)
 
  overall-worth a check if you likke horror a buy if you like the series (9.0
  Score- (8.5) Deadly silence has alot of great things and bad things as well but overall its a game 
 thats alot of fun short bursts and long bursts as well. Oh yea one more thing the voice acting 
 is HILLARIOUS! (lol) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: uno-dos
Rating: 7.5
Date: Sep 26, 2007 5:03 pm PT
Review:  Nearly 10 years after Resident Evil first shocked and amazed game players around the world, it's 
 been squished down to a portable format that preserves most of what made the original so great. 
 Resident Evil: Deadly Silence is basically a straight port of the 1996 PlayStation classic, though 
 it adds a few neat twists made possible by the Nintendo DS. While the graphical presentation isn't 
 as impressive as you'd expect from Resident Evil, it's still impressive to have the whole game 
 playable in the palm of your hand. More importantly, Resident Evil DS still packs some good freaky 
 fun, and it's a cool way for the series' newer fans to experience the game that coined the phrase 
 survival horror. 
  
  Now you can take Resident Evil with you wherever you go. The 1996 horror classic still holds up 
 well to today's standards.
  
  Resident Evil's story comes straight out of a horror movie -- a bad one if you judge it by the quality 
 of the so-awful-it's-funny voice acting and the cheesy full-motion video cutscenes seen in the 
 intro and endings. But apart from some dialogue that's every bit as 
::::::

::::::
UserName: zerohour38
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 24, 2007 9:04 am PT
Review:  Resident Evil Deadly Silence Is A Port OF Resident Evil From The Original Playstation. As you would 
 probably already know Resident Evil Has has plenty of ports and a Remake Which Have All Turned 
 out to be Nice. Well lets get to the point Resident Evil DS is pretty much the same as the original 
 appart from the Stylus Compatiblity and Dual Screen Mode. Nothing has changed due to dialouge to 
 weapons and to characters everything is mostly the same as the original not saying this is bad 
 this game is still an instant classic.
  
  The Good: Resident Evil Reborn Again, Knife Fights are Fun and Great Gameplay.
  
  The Bad: Some 
 Of The Graphics Look A Littile Washed Out, The touch mode can be unwanted at some time.
  
  I would say if you own a DS GET THIS GAME 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SilentFireX
Rating: 8
Date: Sep 22, 2007 9:55 pm PT
Review:  Story: 10
  The story is simply great. It has one of the best stories for a game. you can choose between two 
 characters Jill and Chris. They have slightly different story lines, but both completely immerse 
 you in the game.
  
  Gameplay: 8
  The gameplay is great, but it may take a little time to get used to. Once you get the hang of it, 
 it becomes really fun. The only thing that is kind of bad is the controls can be very stiff at 
 times. The implementing of the stylus into the game for the knifing was a fun addition to the game.
 
  
  Sound:8.0
  The voice acting is VERY funny (though it's not meant to be) . The zombie moans and gun shots and 
 such are great, and the music fits very well with the different sequences.
  
  Graphics:7
  For a portable system the graphics are excellent. In my opinion the graphics may surpass those 
 of the game on the Play Station.
  
  Overall: 8.0
  A definite must buy for any Resident Evil or horror survival game fan. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TreetarD93
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 14, 2007 6:09 pm PT
Review:  Resident Evil: Deadly Silence review
  By: TreetarD93
  
  Resident Evil DS is an overall great game for the DS, and one of my personal favorites. It has 
 a few flaws, but runs perfectly fine. It has a great storyline, fun fast gameplay, and above average, 
 but not the best graphics. Im pretty sure it is the first Resident Evil game to have multiplayer, 
 which isnt half bad. This is my review for Resident Evil: Deadly silence.
  
  Story/Gameplay: To put it short, this game has a great story. It is one of the few games that made 
 me want to play it through to the end just to see what happens. Its defiantly an oldie but goodie. 
 I wouldnt recommend to someone who has never played a RE game before, but at the same time I would. 
 Its hard to get used to the controls if youve never played RE before, but could still be fun to 
 a first timer. It lays out the story for the next Resident Evils. If you have played RE before, 
 this is a must have, mostly because you can take it with you on the go, the first person knife 
 fights, which are awesome, and the multiplayer. The story starts as you, either Chris or Jill, 
 get dropped with your team from a helicopter to investigate an area near the Appalachian Mountains. 
 You soon find yourself in a masion where unimaginable horrors await, and you must discover the 
 mystery behind it all. Im not going to ruin the ending for you, so you have to play the game your 
 self. The combat is pretty basic: hold R or L to lift your equipped gun or knife ,and press A to 
 shoot, B to reload. Dont expect this game to be a shooter, because it isnt. You auto lock on 
 to the nearest enemy and tap A to shoot. The game is more about survival then being a shooter, 
 because you have few weapons and hardly any ammo. Overall the game is focused mainly on solving 
 the puzzles and mysteries than shooting down thousands of zombies, but the combat is still pretty 
 fun.
  
  Graphics: The graphics in RE: DS are fairly good. It has a weird graphical style to it though; the 
 humans, zombies and all other creatures/objects are in 3D, while the surrounding are still pictures, 
 which in my opinion looks great. But theres a catch: since all of the backgrounds are still, the 
 camera must stay in one place, which is one of the main flaws of the game. So when you run, every 
 few feet the camera will switch around to a completely different viewpoint. One second it could 
 be facing you from behind, while the next its an overhead view. This game has to have the worst 
 camera angles of all time, but you get used to it soon enough. Knife fights/Multiplayer: The new 
 features about RE: DS are the touch screen knife fights and the multiplayer. The touch screen knife 
 fights is where RE: DS really shines. During the story, every few rooms or so you will encounter 
 a touch screen knife fight. They are similar to house of the dead, but with a knife. This is what 
 makes you play this game over and over and over again. Once you beat the story line, you can do 
 a mini-game called Master of Knifing. Its basically difficulty increased knife fights one after 
 another, and at the end, you get rated on how well you did on combos, not getting hit, number of 
 hits, damage, etc. This is extremely addicting. I only wish they included a multiplayer option 
 for knife fights. Next is the multiplayer. This is ok, but could have been way better. You basically 
 have the choice of coop or head to head with 3 other friends. This is kind of hard to do though, 
 because each one of your friends needs to be within 30-50 feet of you and needs a copy of the game 
 and a ds, of course. But when you do, its pretty fun. You either have to race out of the mansion, 
 or help eachother out of the mansion. This isnt the best part of the game, but its pretty fun.
 
  
  Overall: Resident Evil DS Is a great classic game remade for the Nintendo ds with plenty of new 
 features. I would sudgest this game to mostly everybody. It can be fun for just asbout everyone. 
 Now go out and get this game for your DS, and support Capcom to remake RE2 for the DS also. And 
 have fun. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Knightes
Rating: 8.5
Date: Sep 2, 2007 10:48 am PT
Review:  The game is almost as good as the original but due to the smaller screen, you don't get the fear 
 effect but never the less the game is still a great recreation. In the original version I was never 
 able to defeat the game with Chris so it was nice to finally see what his ending credits were. 
 The game is easier than the PS version and with the use of the stylus screen it makes the game 
 even more interesting. The only draw back is to play multiplayer, you need to play with someone 
 who also has the game in the ds. I only hope they continue to make the others, especially Resident 
 Evil 2, for the DS. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rex97213
Rating: 10
Date: Aug 27, 2007 1:49 am PT
Review:  this game is so great its clearly one of the best in the series it had great puzzles and axual 
 video clips for the ds this is amazing first person video clips are the best when introduceing 
 new enemys and very interesting story its learning curve is easy and boss fights are awsome last 
 part of the game is prety cool and its neat that they put the original remake and jill and crisis 
 campaigns all in one little card along with best mini game ever called masters of knifeing its 
 neat cause its first person and your actuoly slashing with the pick theres even bosses on the mini 
 game with end game boss the snake little mini games in campaign like spinning a record and other 
 very fun things creatures are scary and detailed graphics are great cause of non moving backgrounds 
 you even have weapons like the flame thrower shotgun handgun revolver rocket launcher and many 
 more mixing herbs is cool to like a red herb triples the effect of any other herb that its mixed 
 with blue herb heals poison and the green herb gives you more health theres even a startup video 
 clip you cant put this game down till the very end.
  buy it resident evil fan or not. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: AmazoLK
Rating: 8.5
Date: Aug 17, 2007 3:21 pm PT
Review:  Resident Evil Deadly Silence for the Nintendo DS is nothing more than a port of the original game. 
 When I first saw the game in 2005 I thought awesome, DS gets a Resident Evil game before PSP, but 
 just another stupid remake. But once I picked it up and started playing it, its 10 times better 
 than the original for the PS1. The new touch screen puzzles and the knife battles are a cool 
 new way to kill in Resident Evil, but the way you do the battling get annoying fast. The touch 
 screen and microphone puzzles are awesome, they did a really good job on those.
  
  Resident Evil: Deadly Silence is a basic horror film/game story. You get stuck in a mansion because 
 monsters were chasing you. Once you get in, you may never get out. Blah, blah, blah. I actually 
 liked the story even from the original. You can either be Chris Redfield or Jill Valentine from 
 the S. T. A. R. S. alpha team from Raccoon City police. You go into the Raccoon Forest to look for 
 a crashed helicopter that had S. T. A. R. S. bravo team members in it. But once you step in the forest 
 you get chased by zombie dogs from the forest into a huge mansion. If youre Chris, Berry Burton, 
 a S. T. A. R. S. alpha team member is gone, and its only you, Jill, and Albert Wesker (the antagonist) . 
 Once in the mansion you hear a shooting and you go to check what it is, and you find a zombie eating 
 a S. T. A. R. S. bravo team member! Once you go back to the main hall where you start, you find nobody 
 there, but you find Jills pistol. It goes on from there.
  
  Some people might think Im crazy to give this a 90% rating, but to tell you the truth, for the 
 DS, I find these graphics very good. Compared to the original, theyre more smooth, clean, and 
 theres no bad collision. Overall, the graphics for a Resident Evil game can be much, much, much 
 better (look at Resident Evil 0 or REmake) , but for the little DS, theyre quite impressive. Overall, 
 awesome graphics, I find the game to be beautiful.
  
  Music is scary as hell. Freaks you out every time you go into a new room. Every room has a creepy, 
 I dont want to go in, music to it. The sound though is on the other side of things. Sure the voice 
 acting is just ported on the DS, but come on, they couldve made it much, much better. The shooting 
 sounds and grunts are okay, but could be better. Overall, the sound sucks, but mixed in with the 
 awesome music make it a definite 90%.
  
  Great, great gameplay. It can get clucky, but still awesome. Theres two control types. One is 
 A and X is action, and B id cancel/run, R is aim, and while holding R A or X is shoot, and B is 
 reload. Hold L to get out your knife and while holding it, a is to knife. The second is basically 
 the same, but B is action, and X/A is cancel. I use the first, but my bro uses the second. Anyways, 
 theres two games with two characters each. The remake mode is called Rebirth, or REbirth. 
 This mode is almost exactly the same as the original except there are touch-screen puzzles and 
 touch-screen knife battles. The knife battles get really, really annoying. Sometimes theres like 
 3 zombies, a dog, and a hunter, and hunters/dogs are really hard to kill with the knife. He puzzles 
 on the other hand are really, really easy, but O wont spoil them for you. Some things in the game, 
 you have to use the microphone, which is also really, really easy. The second mode is the exact 
 original from the PSX. The two characters are Jill Valentine who is weaker than Chris. But gets 
 the Bazooka, which Chris doesnt. Obviously the second character is Chris Redfield who is stronger 
 than Jill, which he cant die as easy, but doesnt get the Bazooka. Anyways, overall easy controls, 
 easy concept (except the knife battles) and great fun.
  
  Nothing to really come back to, to play. Just multi-player and the original game. Im always interested 
 to come back though. I have to mention this somewhere, but I didnt know where, but anyways. You 
 can skip the door scenes, you know, when they slowly open the door, yeah, you can ship it. Isnt 
 that freaking sweet! Yeah, anyways, not so good replay value.
  
  I always knew once I saw the preview the game would be good, and fun. But it turns out other people 
 dont like it as much *cough*IGN*cough*, but I love this game. I cant say its the best Resident 
 Evil game out there, but its very good. Konami did a very good job of this game, and I wouldnt 
 change a thing except the stupid knife battles, but overall, great game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: acurban
Rating: 8.7
Date: Aug 6, 2007 12:26 pm PT
Review:  I am thoroughly enjoying my newest addition, Resident Evil Deadly Silence! This has been a very 
 cool game that i remembered playing on PS2. Its a very easy learning curve and while the controls 
 can seem odd at first, you will get used to them quickly enough. While the video quality and soundtrack 
 are definitely lacking ,I am not put off enough by it to put down the game. No matter which character 
 you play, they both have strengths and weaknesses but play very cool either way. The fun part is 
 trying to complete the game with enough ammo and saves . They are easily overspent and once you 
 do, your going to have trouble! I think its great that they aren't giving you unlimited ammo and 
 game saves.. It makes t much more interesting and challenging. I have not put so much time into 
 any DS game before this. I hope that you will give it a try and an honest chance before judging 
 it yourself. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Leon_888
Rating: 6
Date: Jul 20, 2007 9:43 am PT
Review:  I got this game as a gift a while ago and i admit i was very happy and i enjoyed it quite thoroughly. 
 I admit as a Resident Evil fan i was a little disappointed that the hand held version, fairly fun, 
 lacked the better graphics that were on the Nintendo Gamecube version. The stylus was also a little 
 annoying down to the fact that you hardly get to use it but when you do it's pretty enjoyable like 
 the knife fights in rebirth mode. I also found that my overall playtime on this game was only around 
 16 hours and 45 minutes so that was a bit of a let down as well. Also i might as well make a point 
 while i am here. The gameplay although fairly good were also fairly hampering when it came to the 
 intensity of the game ( which was lackluster in all it's glory) . While trying to use the control 
 pad to steer and trying to run to i found that Jill/Chris spent most of her/his time against walls 
 rather then killing zombies. The other point i should try and make is that the sound of the game 
 is lame but it's still good for a hand held but that's my opinion. I'm not the type of person who 
 likes to complain, but if Nintendo and Capcom decide to bring Resident Evil 2 or more onto the 
 hand held they better get it right. Because Resident Evil 2 is one of my more favorite of the series 
 and it would be very disappointing to see that instead of hitting the ground running it hit the 
 ground burning. I realize this is a long review but I'm mostly finished. My final arguement is 
 that why didn't Nintendo and Capcom come up with something new and terrifying while at the same 
 time tying up as many loose ends from the series that they can and taking extreme advantage of 
 the hand held's function and putting them to better use. That is what i want to see and hopefully 
 i will soon. My overall thought for this game is that it's makers figured they could repeat the 
 success the original had with the new DS features but i say this and stand by it if you really 
 want to play the original do it on a system it's much better even without the DS features . That's 
 my final say.... Leon_888 Out 
::::::

::::::
UserName: horror_spooky
Rating: 9.2
Date: Jul 16, 2007 12:13 am PT
Review:  Since Resident Evil: Deadly Silence is one of the very few survival-horror games released on the 
 DS, I scrambled to get a copy. After the disappointment that Mario Kart DS was, I was hoping that 
 this new re-visioning of the PlayStation classic would change my taste about the Nintendo DS, and 
 thankfully, it did.
  
  I always hear people complaining about the poor controls in Resident Evil games, but they really 
 aren't that bad once you get used to it. However, the way the Nintendo DS D-pad is built, having 
 to constantly hold it down may actually cause minor physical pain to your thumbs. However, this 
 will only come from consistent playing (like I did) . If you can make yourself take a break from 
 this game, which is very doubtful, then you shouldn't have any problem.
  
  The object in the game is to solve (sometimes extremely confusing and difficult) puzzles and defeat 
 enemies to get out of the mansion alive. However, since the mansion is filled with zombies, crows, 
 spiders, and other monsters, this won't be as easy as it sounds. Like I said, some of these puzzles 
 are just insanely hard, but this is usually a seller for some gamers.
  
  I'm not going to spend time explaining the Classic Mode portion of the title (though that is included 
 for die-hard RE fans) since the main focus should go on the new actions that the Nintendo DS has 
 to offer with its unique capabilities. For example, there are knife fights added which adds some 
 excitement to the gameplay. You use the stylus as a knife (the game switches to first-person mode 
 for an easier view) to slash at various monsters. These knife fights are pretty easy to master, 
 but you get small rewards for completing them (like a little handgun ammo or a green herb) .
  
  Also, the story and puzzles are somewhat mixed-up for better capability for the Nintendo DS. 
 Any Resident Evil fan remembers grabbing the serum for Richard, well, not anymore! This time around 
 (if you chose Jill and you are playing in the new Rebirth Mode) you have to get Richard CPR using 
 the built-in microphone, which is pretty hilarious. Nearly all the puzzles are different to either 
 incorporate the stylus or the microphone in some way, which gives more life to the game, even if 
 you played the original and the remake for the GameCube.
  
  Like I mentioned in the before paragraphs, there is a Rebirh Mode and a Classic Mode to choose 
 from. The Classic Mode is the original game, while Rebirth Mode has all the new features and more 
 enemies programmed into it. However, since there is such an excess amount of enemies at the start 
 of Rebirth Mode, it might take a while to get into the game. But once you get rolling, you will 
 have a hard time putting this awesome DS title down.
  
  Of course, it wouldn't be Capcom if there wasn't some sweet unlockable items. For beating the game 
 quickly and getting good endings, you can unlock things like new outfits for Chris and Jill or 
 weapons with inifinite bullets. There is also a new unlockable mini-game which requires you to 
 do the knife fight battles in various locations in the game, which can earn you an new character 
 for the multi-player mode.
  
  Oh yes, there is a multi-player in a Resident Evil game. And no, it's not lame like the Outbreak 
 games are. There is a co-op and versus mode, and you can choose from nine different characters 
 (who each have different stats, usually chosen by their sex) . The co-op mode has you working together 
 with up to three other people to get out of a small part of the mansion and fight a boss (like 
 Tyrant or the giant spider) , but the other players just show up as stars on your screen, which 
 is kind of disappointing since it would've been much cooler to have to work together more to complete 
 the tasks. The versus is similar to the co-op with some new items added in different places and 
 made slightly easier for fast play-throughs. However, there is some small twinks to it, like killing 
 enemies of certain colors negatively effects your opponent. For example, killing an enemy that 
 is purple will take away your opponent's ability to run. Sadly, this rarely ever causes any major 
 distress to your opponent since it wears off quickly and there are only three multi-player stages 
 to choose from, which is also a disappointment. However, the multi-player can add some enjoyment 
 for an hour or two.
  
  The graphics are slightly improved from the original game, but I saw that some of the graphics 
 weren't as good in Classic Mode as they were in Rebirth Mode. The character models are pretty damn 
 good for the DS and the monsters look great.
  
  With all the replayability available, unlockables, and the multi-player, Resident Evil: Deadly 
 Silence is a must-buy for your Nintendo DS. Whether you're a survival-horror fan or not, you'll 
 find something to love about this game. However, if there were some more new features to really 
 make it stand out from other versions and if the multi-player was more immersive, this title would 
 be very close to a perfect score. I'm just hoping the next DS game I play has better multi-player 
 features and still holds solid replayability and single-player modes. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: diablobasher
Rating: 8.7
Date: Jul 9, 2007 2:07 pm PT
Review:  I must stress before I go into any for of detail, I will be reviewing only the single player portions 
 of the game, as I do not currently have access to a second copy of the game, nor do any of my friends 
 own a copy.
  
  The classic, genre defining survival horror Resident Evil, despite being released 3 times on 
 the PS1, and then remade spectacularly for the Gamecube, is rearing its zombie infested head on 
 the Nintendo DS. While the game may be somewhat tame by todays standards, it still bears a 15 certificate, 
 and somewhat helps to shift the kiddie image slightly. Sure, it doesnt put a dent in the masses 
 of family friendly titles, it provides some blood and gore for hot blooded male DS owners to 
 enjoy.
  
  The game itself features both characters from the original 1996 hit, Chris Redfield, and Jill Valentine, 
 as well as a new game mode called Rebirth Mode that features new item/enemy locations, smarter 
 enemies, and some added minigames and puzzles that use the DS functionality. One such example is 
 using the stylus to slash as advancing enemies from the first person perspective, another being 
 to blow into the mic to perform CPR on a downed comrade, all of which work well and provide an 
 interesting use of the controls, while it doesnt add much to the game, they are not poorly implemented 
 or out of place, so dont detract from the experience either.
  
  The game still has the familiar tank control method that is a signature of the series (or was 
 up until Resi Outbreak) which some people will take a lot of getting used to. A lot of people dislike 
 this control scheme, and while it happens to be my favorite control scheme ever, I cant ignore 
 the sheer number of people that cannot get to grips with it. Other controls should be relatively 
 familiar, however the addition of a knife button (ala Resident Evil 4) gives quick access to 
 the knife without having to equip it every time, keeping the action a little more fluid.
  
  Graphicaly, Resident Evil: Deadly Silence is very pleasing for a DS game, character models look 
 good and animate very well, the backgrounds are quite detailed, although due to the smaller screen 
 size, there is much less detail than in the original backgrounds. The game performs very well, 
 the majority of the time the game maintains constant, pleasing framerate, and offers responsive 
 controls. However, one part in particular offers an inexplicable framerate drop which is highly 
 noticeable, this is in the water underneath the guardhouse, in which the frame rate drops a lot. 
 Fortunately, this doesnt make too much difference as this section only lasts a few moments, it 
 still detracts from the quality of the overall experience. The games sound is relatively well implemented, 
 the voice acting all sounds (technicly) good, and the music and enemy effects are clear and sound 
 nice, some of the weapon sounds are a little dulled though, but then they were never very loud 
 on the original either.
  
  Overall, Resident Evil is as fun as it ever was, but now portable, cheesy voice acting in tact, 
 but with some limited multiplayer ability added, and a new game mode. These make for a good purchase, 
 all the regular unlockables, as well as the two different game modes (classic and rebirth) give 
 the otherwise short game a hefty amount of replay ability.
  
  Such a high profile series landing on the DS is surely a landmark, and the gateway for future iterations 
 of either this series, or many of capcoms other highly successful franchises to appear on the console 
 in the future. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: deadrevolver93
Rating: 7.1
Date: Jul 4, 2007 11:13 am PT
Review:  Resident Evil: DS For the Nintendo DS is a remake of the original RE for the PSX. The Story bases 
 around the Raccoon City Police Special Forces Units Alpha And Bravo investigating mysterious appearances 
 and Eerie occurences by the Arklay Mountains by Raccoon City. They land and get attacked by mutant 
 dogs and have to retreat to a so-they-think Safe Haven - The Nearby Mansion- as one by one member 
 dies, what will Jill Valentine and Chris Redfield (MAIN CHARACTERS) unravel while adventuring into 
 the depths of the mansion? (PHEW)
  
  RATINGS
  Story- Anything that has to do with zombies, I like, so of course the story is gonna get a good 
 rating- 9 out of 10.
  
  Graphics- Of course it's on the DS, so the graphics have been downgraded a bit. PS1 graphics, but 
 downgraded a bit, good for the DS- 6 out of 10
  
  Gameplay- Shoot And Explore!- 7 out of 10
  
  Controls- WOW, they were bad on the ps1, but, 
 woah! the DS version is clunky and annoying- 4 out of 10
  
  Difficulty- moderate to hard depending on your skill level.- 1 being easy, 10 being hard- 5-8
 
  
  Sound- Holy Crap I cannot tell you how HORRIBLE the voice acting is... Very cheesy and crappy most 
 of the time-especially in the beginning Cinematic, But The Gun Sounds And Zombie Sounds Sound Spooky- 
 6 out of 10
  
  OVERALL-I really love the resident evil series.
  This game is an awesome remake, with multiple new multiplayer options, a new touch screen mode, 
 and just cool reminiscence.
  I recommend it to people who like action/adventure/zombie games and who like nostalgia of the game.
 
  _________________ 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bball927je
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 27, 2007 2:14 pm PT
Review:  amzing  lsdhfa dsflkj asdflkjh asfpiefalks fasldfhas dflahsdfdfas 
 sdf sadf sdaf sadf g h tgrgv grfgdhgf dfgsdfgcvx dfgdfs ghjyjt juyukff rfhrfg gf hytty xdvxcvb 
 dfgjyt dhfgndvbf sfdgvsdfs sdfsdf htryh kjn vcbxcv sdvvfsdf mytjty sdfsdfj fs; ldkfpom sf; sdfje 
 sdf; fjsofjik prtuerpituj sdpfouerp dfg fsd dfs dg dfsdsf dsf dsg dsfgf dsf dsf sdf dsfg dsf dfg 
 dg df dfg sdf dg dsfg dsf dsf sdf sdgf sdf dfs er df dsfg dsfg er sdg dsfg df ser ds srg dfer dfsgf 
 rsgr rsgr dfgsf esr dfs erse df r dsgd sr ers dsger s gsr ser dg erg df ds rthrt fg ht fh frth 
 yrt fhtyj jhf rht rth dtg eg er er ererg rg egr rthrt etg rt rtg esrfsd dfsg srge fdg serdsg erd 
 sg esr 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Pangster007
Rating: 7.4
Date: Jun 7, 2007 9:23 am PT
Review:  This a good port of the original RE game on the PS although it's a little grainy on the graphical 
 side and the controls need getting used to.
  
  The original had some really cheesy moments in video and voice acting, and this is the same for 
 the DS.
  
  This about killing zombies or these 'monsters' created from a T-virus. The story is nothing too 
 special but it works well. The game takes place in a mansion filled with keys, switches, items 
 and littered with 'things' out to kill you. You get to choose playing as a male or the female, 
 which opens up the replay value.
  
  If you've played the original, there is seriously very little reason to get this game. The DS version 
 has some in-game moments which require you to 'swipe' and tap the touch screen in a first person 
 view as zombies and dogs approach you. Timing is key in this mode. While, they are pretty 'cool' 
 at first, it's quite detracting from the main game and it also can catch you off-guard; you don't 
 know when it will come up, and you have to quickly get out the stylus once you see the first person 
 view.
  
  The graphics are slightly worse than the original but is still decent for a handheld. There are 
 puzzle elements which require you to use the touch screen, although they work well, it feels very 
 'tacked on'. The biggest addition to the game is the multiplayer, up to 4 players can play together 
 when connected wirelessly. With the time i played with, it was decent but was not fully featured 
 and short-lived. The second biggest addition would be the first person mode 'time attack' (?) which 
 is unlocked after completing the game. You now have to slash through enemies wave after wave, building 
 up a high score.
  
  Overall, this is the same game as the original, but with a few additions. If you've played the 
 original then just forget about buying this (unless it's extremely cheap) . For those who haven't 
 played the first game, this deserves a rent. If you want to keep a copy, then search the bargain 
 bins. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mikijoraygor
Rating: 8.5
Date: Aug 28, 2007 7:15 pm PT
Review:  This game may not be scary... but it probably has some of the most hilarious moments and acting 
 ever. but it probably has something no other DS game has. This game has probably the some of the 
 best use of the DS features out of alot of other DS games. There are 2 modes rebirth and classic 
 let describe them. Classic is pretty much like the original on the ps almost every way. Rebirth is 
 diffrent there is things called knife fights where it goes to first person and you have to kill 
 the monsters on the screen and now in almost every saveroom there is a blue box that has a lock 
 you have to solve a combination puzzle to open it this is a bit like other puzzeles too. There are 
 2 characters Jill and Chris who have diffrent scenarios and there is multiplayer where you can 
 COOP or VS. The good thing about COOP it can go up to 4 player action bad thing you share a life 
 bar {Grr} whats bad about that is you could be playing with someone who sucks real bad and gets 
 you and your whole team killed just because of he/she. VS mode is where you see who can win the 
 level first. The good thing is you can be against alot of sucky people and get the unlockable in 
 like 2 min. just because the person or people your against suck. The bad is you don't got someone 
 that's got your back. There are actually more people for multiplayer mode then just Chris and Jill 
 there is also the whole Alpha team and Bravo team people like people who even get killed in the 
 actual game too like Richard. There are alternate endings so if you got all the endings and costumes 
 think twice before purchasing this. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Master_Shane
Rating: 6.8
Date: May 6, 2007 8:05 pm PT
Review:  OVERVIEW:
  
  Classic game that really open the door for the survival horror genre, and other games to follows 
 in its design path. What made this great made ( or for me) when I played it many years ago was 
 that you have to fight monsters (zombies, hunters, snakes, etc) while trying to conserve your ammo 
 and herbs. Another favorite was the way the game tries to jump out and scare you when you least 
 expect it! For example you may be walking down a hallway when a dog plows right through a window 
 when you least expect.
  
  Differences: Original vs. Port
  
  Both games are the same, with the exception, the port contains three new features; multiplayer, 
 reborn, and surivival. Multiplayer is basically two players are either competing in a race or working 
 as a team to work their way to the end of the scenario. Unfortunatly, the downfall of this aspect 
 is that you can't actually see the other player, more as you see a star where the other suppose 
 to be, taking away the realism aspect. I can't really say anything more else on that because I 
 haven't been able to play it yet.
  
  Reborn is the basically is the same as the main game, except minigames games have been added to 
 different parts of, some fun, while some frustrating. Most of the minigames you'll come across 
 will pit you in a knife battle against different foes ( zombies, dogs, crows, etc) . the fun part 
 about these knife battles is that it uses the touch screen in where you can make different kinds 
 of slices, plus the challenges do get challenging, but not to a point where its gets frustating 
 or have to retry many times. Last are the puzzle minigames, where it can get frustrating = ( , such 
 puzzles include using your knife to hit the corresponding buttons that light up can be annoying 
 as you have to do it quick and not hit Chris's/Jill's fingers in the process.
  
  Survival is where you compete in a series of knife battles, simiar to the ones in reborn. Unfortunatly 
 I can't tell you any more because I haven't unlocked the feature in the game.
  
  Conclusion
  
  Really this game is probably gonna be more enjoyable to fans of the series or 
 suvival horror fans. If you like old games, and don't care much about graphics, then this game 
 may just be what your looking for! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DiabeticDood
Rating: 7.1
Date: Apr 26, 2007 5:59 pm PT
Review:  REDS is a good game for a handheld survival horror game. Its a remake of the first RE game that 
 was on the PSone the only thing changed is that its using the touch screen, So you may solve a 
 puzzle by using the touch screen, or you may have a knife battle between a few zombies with the 
 touch screen. Its new and creative Ill give them that but I just dont think survival horror 
 games are meant for the DS. While the voice acting is cream cheesy and the sounds are not the best 
 this game is just not meant for the DS. I found myself doing a lot of looking closely at the screen 
 saying to myself Whats That? you see the graphics on this game are just horrible. You can really 
 tell that they had to bring the graphics down for the DS. If this were put on the PSP they could 
 have easily bumped them up a bit. While this is still a great game either playing the new mode 
 of the old game that doesnt use the touch screen youll have a few good jumps. Dogs still jump 
 through windows. However if you found your self liking the RE series but not the first one this 
 game is not for you its just a remake. But if you did like the first one and would like to play 
 it on the road then this is the game for you. I found this game really hard to find so I really 
 cant say a price because my uncle gave me his copy. But if I had to guess Im sure you could find 
 it at EBgames for 15 dollars or so. But this is a really good remake. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: HolyCheesus
Rating: 7.7
Date: Apr 21, 2007 10:34 pm PT
Review:  Its the PS1 classic ported to the Nintendo DS to celebrate the 10th annverssiery of Resident Evil. 
 I was surpridded to see this game game to DS, even though I never played the original.
  
  The gameplay works well, giving you a button to push to quicly pull out a knife for a quick attack, 
 similar to RE4. Also now you can do a quick turn around, also like on RE4. Unfortunaly, thr game 
 still has the akward camera view.
  
  The graphics look almost as good as the original, but suffers from dark corners and pixilated surfaces.
 
  
  The game is still a 3 hour game, but if you had a choice to pick up this game, os the REmake for 
 the game cube, pick up that version. This is still a good classic, but play it with the sound off. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GeekyDad
Rating: 8.5
Date: Feb 1, 2008 9:30 am PT
Review:  Resident Evil: Deadly Silence (REDS) is a port of the original Resident Evil title from the Playstation 
 (PSx) , circa 1996. I never played that game nor any other Resident Evil title, so I won't be able 
 to compare Deadly Silence to anything else in the franchise. I will, however, attempt to give you 
 my best reflection of what this particular title has to offer.
  
  Story: Upon starting a new game, you will be treated to a full-motion video (FMV) with live actors. 
 (Well, they're live people, but acting?) As stated, I'd never played the original, but I was well 
 aware, before playing REDS, just how bad the acting was supposed to be for this game. True to its 
 reputation, the acting is horrendous. However, it actually lends a lot of character to the overall 
 feel of the game.
  
  The story takes place in Raccoon City, a mountainous region of Anywhere, U. S. A. A special unit 
 of the local police force, known as S. T. A. R. S., is sent out to an area of the town's nearby woodlands 
 to investigate bizarre murders that have recently taken place, but the investigation team, Bravo, 
 eventually goes missing themselves. Now the Alpha team must be sent in to find their fellow S. T. A. R. S. 
 teammates and try to piece together just what the heck is going on at the outskirts of town
  
  Gameplay: REDS is an adventure game, not a shooter, really. Regardless of what some folks might 
 tell you, Phoenix Wright is not a true adventure game, in my opinion  it's more of an interactive 
 novel. That's not to take anything away from it as a quality DS title, but REDS is more what I 
 think of when I think adventure. Yes, there's definitely going to be some shooting; you acquire 
 weapons such as a shotgun, bazooka and .357 Magnum, but shooting isn't the main focus of the game. 
 The main focus is getting out alive. Doing so will require lots of exploration, puzzle solving, 
 thinking on your feet and, of course, keeping zombies and other creepy creatures from devouring 
 you alive.
  
  Before going any further, I want to talk about the game's controls; they will likely be an issue 
 for anyone who plays this game. You move your character is a most awkward fashion, but, in order 
 to describe this awkwardness, let me first offer some perspective
  
  Everything takes place on the touch-screen and your character is played from a third-person perspective. 
 If you think of the top of the touch screen as north, the bottom south, the left west, and the 
 right east, you'll probably be better able to understand how the controls for the character work. 
 You'll move the character using the control pad (D-pad) and, in order to move forward, you press 
 up on the D-pad; to move backward, press down; to turn left, press left, and so on and so forth. 
 Now, even if the character is facing south and you want to move her/him forward, you'll have to 
 push up on the D-pad; if the character is facing west and you want to turn her/him to face south, 
 you'll have to press left on the D-pad (not down, as might seem natural) . It's weird  plain and 
 simple.
  
  The game's producer has stated that this type of control scheme was necessary in order to keep 
 the player oriented as they make their way through the environments, which are made up of static 
 scenes (Nintendo Power, v200) . By "static," I mean the camera never moves. This actually works 
 wonders for the mood of the game, as well as allowing for some really scary moments where things 
 jump out at you. Of course, it also makes controlling your character extremely difficult.
  
  That said, REDS is still quite an amazing game. In spite of this counter-intuitive control 
 scheme, the game offers a lot of great scares and a lot of excitement. The controls might actually 
 lend something to that excitement, as well. The game never allows you to become so familiar with 
 the controls that you eventually feel in total control of the situation. You're always left to 
 feel like you're fighting for your life, that at any moment something more powerful than yourself 
 could quickly and easily jump out and bring you, suddenly, to some gruesome end.
  
  When the Alpha team  you and a handful of comrades  goes in to look for the Bravo team, they 
 get cut off from their transport (helicopter) . While being pursued by some unknown, deadly creatures, 
 the team makes a desperate dash for a nearby mansion. It's here where you'll make your final stand, 
 trying to piece together clues, as you discover the resources that will allow you and the rest 
 of your team to make it out alive. Some kind of abomination has occurred out in these woods and 
 now terrible monsters are roaming about.
  
  The game has a great pace to it, lots of clever puzzles and enough action to keep your heart pumping 
 pretty much throughout the entire romp. There's loads of excitement  just when you thought a hall 
 was clear of enemies, something lurches forward to take a bite of your neck. The scarcity of healing 
 items and ammo also add yet another level of urgency to this already spooky adventure.
  
  There are two modes you can play through and two characters to choose from. There's the Original 
 Mode, which, from what I understand, is pretty much the exact same game as that of the original 
 PSx version, and there's the Rebirth mode, which offers DS-specifics gameplay elements. I opted 
 for the Rebirth mode and played as Jill Valentine (you can also play as a character named Chris 
 Redfield) . Jill is suggested for an "easier" game experience. The game's not hard to understand, 
 by any means, but the difficulty of the game, overall, is pretty high. As far as I can tell, this 
 is due, mostly, to three main factors:
  
  1. The controls. You'll never feel like you're in total control, and that was probably the exact 
 intention of the developers. The awkwardness with which the character moves definitely adds to 
 the excitement and difficulty of the game.
  2. Scarcity of healing items and ammo. By the end of the game, you'll be sweating whether or not 
 you have enough of each to make your way to the end. You won't want to use your best ammo on lesser 
 ghouls, and hanging onto shotgun ammo can be quite difficult. You're also only human, so when a 
 zombie takes a nibble on your flesh it hurts. You'll be healing quite often, and healing herbs 
 are in limited supply.
  3. Ribbons. The game allows you to save your progress whenever you're at a typewriter, but in order 
 to use the typewriter you need typewriter ribbons. These, too, are in short supply. So, you'll 
 have to be strategic on when to save and be extra careful not to waste ammo and herbs so as to 
 have enough of each to get you through based on the limited number of saves you can perform.
  
  As mentioned, there are some DS-specific game elements (in Rebirth mode) . One being seemingly 
 random first-person encounters, upon entering a room. When this happens, your character cannot 
 move about the room and must use only a knife  by slashing with your finger or stylus across the 
 touch screen  to defeat a certain number of enemies. It's usually a very brief encounter, but 
 the game's later battles can be quite dangerous. Other DS-specific elements include touch screen 
 puzzles and use of the microphone in order to perform certain actions.
  
  Overall, the game is a masterpiece horror-adventure title with extremely "wonky" controls. Some 
 have said that you'll learn to love the controls, and to some extent that's probably true. But 
 part of you may, simultaneously, always be wishing for something different. However, better control 
 for this particular game, with its static-camera environments, would probably take away a lot of 
 the scare factor. Accept the controls for what they are and you'll likely be amazed and thrilled 
 by this spooky rollercoaster ride.
  
  Presentation: Resident Evil: Deadly Silence is a wonderful gaming package and, unlike many other 
 adventure games, there's a lot to come back to. The graphics and sound are, for the most part, 
 really top-shelf and everything comes together extremely nicely to make a very spooky experience 
 on the DS.
  
  On the graphics front, it can perhaps be said that REDS is one of the nicest-looking games on the 
 platform. Character models from afar can be a bit unsightly, but close up have a lot of detail 
 and their textures are very smooth. The same goes for the backgrounds  some of the best I've seen 
 on the system. The pseudo-lighting is intensely atmospheric and the use of color is masterful in 
 setting the mood for this creepy horror-fest. The only thing that appears blocky, really, is the 
 blood, which can appear red or green depending on your preference. But, overall, the look of the 
 game is really wonderful, and you'll be exploring a lot of area with little or no repetition from 
 location to location.
  
  The aural aspects of Deadly Silence are, with respect to the DS, amazing. The music is totally 
 creepy, totally scary. The only respite you'll ever get from being creeped out by the sound is 
 when you enter a safe-room. These areas are sparsely placed throughout the entire realm of the 
 game, and only there does the music change to a cadence of resolve, cuing the player to the fact 
 that they're now in a safe haven of sorts. There are several themes  most, recurring motifs  
 and they play no small role in setting the stage for the horror that is Resident Evil. Creature 
 sounds, too, lend a lot to the excitement, and other ambient sounds and noises add much to the 
 overall atmosphere of the game. And, if you're not already aware, the game comes complete with 
 extensive voice acting. Many fans contend that the terrible acting wasn't done on purpose, but 
 I suspect otherwise. The game seems to be an obvious homage to the infamous Night of the Living 
 Dead movie, and what ode to that masterpiece would be complete without true B-movie melodrama? 
 Either way, it's nice to hear people talking in a game, and the voices are presented in fairly 
 high fidelity. Lastly, the game's silence.... They don't call it Deadly Silence for nothing, and 
 the game uses silence wonderfully at just the right moments, often leaving nothing but the sound 
 of your own footsteps and the pounding of your heart in your ears.
  
  REDS offers the two aforementioned variants of the story mode, as well as a multiplayer mode, which 
 I haven't and likely will never have the opportunity to report on; I just can't imagine finding 
 someone else nearby who also owns the game. Yup, it's another one of those useless local-only, 
 multi-card multiplayer offerings. When will developers realize how utterly impractical that type 
 of gameplay is for DS owners? That option aside, there's still a lot that REDS' presentation has 
 to offer.
  
  The manual included with the game is quite beautiful, with a clever introduction to the game's 
 story by way of a front-page article from a newspaper. The entire manual is in color and offers 
 pretty much all the basics for gameplay, including background info for all of the various characters 
 involved in the story. It's the finest DS-game manual from a third-party publisher that I've yet 
 seen included with a game. Kudos, Capcom!
  
  More importantly, however, Deadly Silence offers a lot of replay value. Regardless of the fact 
 that the multiplayer option will likely be useless to most players, there's plenty of meat to be 
 scoured (ew, poor choice of words when talking about this game) from the single-player experience. 
 Selecting from the two different characters offers the option of two somewhat different perspectives 
 of the game, with slightly different story elements for each. But it's in the excitement of the 
 gameplay where you'll find the desire to play through REDS multiple times. Unlike many other "adventure" 
 games  Phoenix Wright, Trace Memory, Hotel Dusk  in which the story's end leaves little or nothing 
 to come back to, REDS will likely remain fun no matter how many times you frolic through this house 
 of frights.
  
  In the end, Resident Evil: Deadly Silence (DS, if you haven't yet caught the publishers' play on 
 words) offers a really entertaining gaming package. It's not perfect and the character controls 
 will likely be a source of contention throughout most of the game. However, it still manages to 
 do what it sets out to do and does it quite well, at that. It's scary  perhaps not for veterans 
  but being scary on the DS seems no small feat to me, and this game delivers in spades. If you're 
 into this sort of thing  which, for myself, I have to be in just the right mood  chances are 
 you'll really dig this title. I got it new for $20 and it will be staying in my DS library permanently.
 
  
  Thanks for reading, and happy hunting
  
  -GD
  
  ---------------------------------------------------------
  
  The Breakdown
  
  Presentation 
 / 8.5
  A wonderful gaming package, manual and all. I'm knocking off a full point, however, because of 
 the fact that the multiplayer isn't available for either single-card or online play and is just 
 an impracticality in its current state. The multiplayer was obviously a huge selling point for 
 vets of the original game, and it seems an unappreciative response from the publishers to entreat 
 their loyal fans thusly.
  
  Graphics / 8.5
  Not everything looks stellar, but overall the game's look fits to mood perfectly. Additionally, 
 the textures for the backgrounds are not in the least noticeable and there's a ton of variation 
 to the environments throughout the game  great stuff.
  
  Sound / 9.5
  Love it or hate it, there's voice acting and it's recorded with clarity. It also fits the game's 
 motif very well, as do all the creature sounds and music; the music alone creeps the heck out of 
 me and this is a game where you want that.
  
  Gameplay / 9.5
  It's completely scary (for a first-timer) , it's adventurous and it's a lot of fun. It's not the 
 kind of game I probably want to play everyday, but when it comes to some truly frightful gaming 
 on a handheld, I can't imagine finding better.
  
  Controls
  I'm not going to rate them, because I'm not exactly sure what to make of them. They're a bit annoying, 
 and yet there's something about the controls that works for this game. Be warned, though, the controls 
 for Resident Evil: Deadly Silence are not your typical fare. I guess you'll just have to fill in 
 the blank on this one and rate the game's controls yourself.
  
  Overall / 8.5
  This is, admittedly, going to be one game that I take a more subjective view on. The pacing, set-up 
 and cleverness of the gameplay are all topnotch. But those controlsthey've come up a lot in this 
 review. I just think it's going to be the main consideration for anyone contemplating getting this 
 game. It's not hard to get over the controls -- they're not Metroid Prime: Hunters by any means 
 -- but you should probably ask yourself if you're in the mood to go down that road right now. For 
 myself, I say yay. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: JLB92
Rating: 8.1
Date: Mar 28, 2007 3:38 pm PT
Review:  Resident evil is one of the first games that made people scared of a 3D enviroment and figures. 
 Developed by Capcom, Resident Evil takes gameplay ideas from a game made for the PC in 1992 called 
 Alone in the Dark. Resident evil has had its ups and downs in its history (Gaiden for the GBC and 
 the survivor series.) , but now DS owners can get a taste of what started the famous franchise.
 
  
  The story is that a special team named S. T. A. R. S has lost its Bravo team in a search of whats been 
 causing grisly murders in their city's surrounding forest. Alpha team was sent to find them and 
 comes across their helicopter that has crashed and gone up in flames. Alpha team searches the area 
 and finds a hand that belonged to one of the Bravo teams members. They are suddenly attacked by 
 doberman with their skin falling off. The team runs to a nearby mansion owned by a company named 
 Umbrella and dicovers the dark secrets that it contains.
  
  RE's game controls have been described like moving a tank (press up you go up, down you walk backwards.) 
 You get used to it after awhile. You basically explore the mansion and solve puzzles and plot twists 
 to reach the games conclusion finding new enemies, characters, and items as you explore. The pick 
 of two playable characters has the story's events change a little and determines how many items 
 you can hold , how hard the game will be and other things. Deadly Silence has a feature that has 
 you use the stylus (optional) to solve new puzzles and defend yourself from enemies. This is a 
 good port that has all the stuff that made it so great. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ColdstoneX3
Rating: 8.4
Date: Mar 26, 2007 8:25 am PT
Review:  Resident evil DS is a port of the much acclaimed Resident evil that came out for the Playstation 
 so long ago. Is it still worth it after such a long time, id have to say yes.
  
  
  Gameplay:
  
  Resident evil Ds has 2 main mods of gameplay which are Classic, in which you play 
 the original game that is pretty much identical to the old PS classic or you can play REbirth mode 
 in which there is a bit more emphasis on action, and many of the puzzles have been altered to include 
 the DS unique possibilities. For Example you can blow out candles, to solve puzzles. A new feature 
 of Rebirth is also the Knive fights, upon entering a certain room you will trigger a scene in which 
 you will have to use the knive to kill all the enemies coming towards you using the stylus. This 
 delivers more suspenceful moments and adds to the atmosphere of anything can hapen. Graphics:
 
  
  The Graphics have changed little since playstation times, the Characters look a bit more refined, 
 but the envirement seems to have suffered a bit, for example, if you have never beat the game as 
 an original, you might have trouble noticing certain buttons on the wall, or holes in which to 
 put cranks. it can be frustrating and might cut down enjoyment.
  
  Sound:
  
  The Sound as with any resident evil game is essential since it can be the only warning that you 
 might be dead in the next 5 seconds. The Music is still as good as it used to be and delivers a 
 great atmosphere.
  
  Value:
  
  All in all the game is still worth it after all this time. A alternate mode to play through including 
 new boss battles, new enemy positions and many altered puzzles make this worth playing through 
 once again. If you can get another player, you can get together and play Koop or Vs mode using 
 the Wi-fi capabilty of the Nintendo DS. Whether you have beat this game before or are new to the 
 genre, its definitly a great buy and well worth the money. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: xL-phrutz
Rating: 7.5
Date: Mar 8, 2007 5:33 pm PT
Review:  Game is awesome even for me a first timer on an original RE port. The only one i played was RE4 
 and that was awesome but this was is great too for a port.
  
  Gameplay- 8, has fun killing monsters and cool different kinds, dogs, hawks, not only zombies!
 
  
  graphics- 6, okay for a ds, but hell the graphics doesnt matter that much its all about the gameplay
 
  
  Sound-6, kind of disapointed at this part, the voice acting of the zombie arent that scary, and 
 dont seem so bad that they are funny... still okay.
  
  Value- 8, Can play for while of a time, is difficult in the beggingn if your first RE game. good 
 replay value.
  
  Tilt- 8, Great game overall, could use better controls but its all good, the inverse controls are 
 a lil tricky at first but you get used to it. Still fun killing things =) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mike360xoxo
Rating: 7.8
Date: Mar 4, 2007 9:20 am PT
Review:  It was fun when your first got it and then you beat it. after that.. it was over for me. i got 
 bored of solving the same puzzles and what not. i beat the game as jill th first time, Very fun. 
 it just has to replay value imo. i got it fo $20 and it was worth the price but i don't think it 
 was worth a buy at $30 or $35 if you payed tht much. it's not a great idea to bring back a really 
 old game. but still was worth playing. rebirth mode wasn't that great. moved items and like 5 puzzles 
 using themic and touch screen. capcom made a good move selling this old game back. but they could 
 of made a better move making a new RE for the ds. i thought it was a good game but not worth more 
 than $20. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: white143papi
Rating: 8
Date: Apr 27, 2007 9:37 am PT
Review:  the fact that this game is in a handheld should be more than enough to make a gamer buy this game. 
 when this game originally came out it started it's own genre and if that wasn't impresive enough 
 it scared the crap out of people. it is nice that you have a option to play classic or rebirth 
 mode. classic mode is self explanitory, in rebirth mode it is like the director's cut version of 
 the game which has more enemies and for me some parts made me flinch plus a add gameplay which 
 you cut enemies down. In these knifing scenes you (of course) only use a knife, you can touch the 
 screen to have a stab motion, you can touch across the screen to have a motion and you can also 
 slash diagonally and horizontally. also in the rebirth mode are puzzles dealing with the touch 
 screen like having to stab dots as the light up and not stab your hand. so for those like me who 
 never played this game but played RE4 should check this out. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sillygostly
Rating: 8
Date: Feb 27, 2007 4:41 pm PT
Review:  The Good: Stabbing zombies with the touch screen is loads of fun! :D
  Hilariously bad voiceovers and dialogue.
  
  The Bad: Censored intro scene... WTF?! The game 
 is M rated yet they removed the innocuous scene where Chris has a cigarette in his mouth?! I for 
 one am outraged! &gt;: ( And the intro is hardly scary in black &amp; white and without all the 
 blood and gore. It wasn't until I watched the original PSOne intro when I realized that the gun 
 that Joseph picked up was attached to a severed hand. Ugh! Whoever suggested that the intro should 
 be censored should have their limbs cut off! &gt;: (
  
  End rant.
  
  I just wanted to get all that off my chest lol.
  
  Well, I can certainly see why Resident Evil 
 was such a classic on the PSOne over a decade ago although my first ever Resident Evil experience 
 was in this very DS game.
  
  Basically, a bunch of cops are stranded in a haunted mansion, and your character (you can either 
 play as Jill Valentine [NORMAL] or Chris Redfield [HARD] . I started off as Jill, and I really enjoyed 
 the game for what it was.
  
  The fixed camera angles and clunky controls take some time getting used to, but once I adjusted 
 to these minor quirks, I found myself enjoying the game more and more. As you progress through 
 the game, more enemies and weapons are introduced, however in proportion to the weaponry offered, 
 the game's difficulty remains consistent from start to finish.
  
  The entire game isn't just confined to a mansion though, as there is a garden, a laboratory, a 
 guardhouse and an underground tunnel to explore. The cut scenes are hilarious as well, as they 
 were obviously poorly translated from the original Japanese script, and some moments will have 
 you rolling your eyes and frowning at the ludicrousness of the dialogue and acting. The live action 
 sequences are a nice touch. :)
  
  The game took me just under 6 hours to beat the first time, but playing it a second time only took 
 me 3 hours. However I was reloading so often that it would have taken a little longer than that. 
 And at only AUD$24, this game was an absolutely bargain and it was worth every cent.
  
  Nothing much to say about this game that hasn't already been said time and time again over the 
 past 11 years, but Resident Evil: Deadly Silence is a great introduction to the Resident Evil franchise, 
 and although it doesn't have much to offer for players who have already experienced the game back 
 in 1996, it's a classic (perhaps for all the wrong reasons :P) and I'd recommend it to anybody 
 who's into this sort of gory game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: indra_agustia
Rating: 8
Date: May 20, 2007 4:33 am PT
Review:  Resident Evil is one of my favourites. I'm delighted that this one actually made it to DS instead 
 of PSP. The gameplay is good, however the graphic is a bit pixelated sometimes. The sound is quite 
 okay eventhough it's a bit soft and you have to turn the DS volume higher.
  
  The use of touch screen is quite awesome, from knife battle to performing CPR. The other good thing 
 is for RE fans, you can play the same game more than once and still like it. It'll be good to see 
 another one from this series come to Nintendo DS, especially Resident Evil 2. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 2deluxe
Rating: 8
Date: Sep 14, 2007 7:00 pm PT
Review:  Resident Evil truly is my favorite game in the series. It was such a genius game that put the term 
 survival horror into everyone's radars. Sure Alone in the Dark came out earlier, but Resident Evil 
 left the games alone in the dark. The original title has been released several times on many formats 
 and the DS is next to get the game. Sure it sounds like an easy cash cow effort for Capcom, but 
 you simply just can't frown at this classic.
  
  Back in 1998, the S. T. A. R. S Bravo team was inspecting a mansion in the Arclay mountains in the 
 outskirts or ficticious Raccoon City. Stories of zombie-like creatures and other monsters have 
 surfaced the deep forrests where the mansion lies. With no return response from Bravo, the Alpha 
 team was set in to check out the situation. There, Albert Wesker, Jill Valentine, Chris Redfield, 
 Barry Burton, Brad Vickers, and Joseph Frost, will suffer the same faith that the Bravo team has 
 endured, in that awful mansion.
  
  Everything that made the original game a classic is here. The cheesy B-rated story and acting (including 
 the amazing lines It might be helpful if you, the master of unlocking, take this with you , and 
 the corny live action cinematics) . The blood and gore is still here as well.
  
  New to the DS are touch screen puzzles that I personally thought wasn't gimmicky. They fitted with 
 the game quite nicely, you'll love that stone and knife puzzle, hilarious stuff. Also you'll get 
 into knife fights ever so often where you must draw your stylus across the screen to slash or tap 
 it to stab monsters. Pretty cool stuff.
  
  The graphics look much better here than the original PS version. The character models look sharp 
 (oh baby I love Chris with his hott bomber jacket outfit, brings me back memories. . .) and the 
 zombies got some new animations. The game's biggest flaw is that its much easier than the PS original. 
 Chris alone can take way too much damage before getting killed (my baby!) .
  
  Resident Evil: Deadly Silence may seem like a cash cow attempt but its atleast pretty freaking 
 sweet to play a true RE game on the handheld. The graphics look better than the PS original, it 
 also performs so much faster. You can skip those tedious loading screens if you press B or A when 
 you enter a door. This is a must for any hardcore fan of the original who haven't played the true 
 original Resident Evil for years. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: microwavedapple
Rating: 9.3
Date: Feb 2, 2007 10:34 am PT
Review:  Ever had a dream, where you're in a huge mansion that's infested with flesh eating zombies? No? 
 Me neither. And we won't need them when we have Resident Evil: Deadly Silence.
  
  More than just a port of the original Resident Evil game, that came out for the PlayStation all 
 those years ago. Resident Evil: Deadly Silence offers new modes, new difficulties and it uses the 
 Nintendo DS's touch screen better than alot of games before it. And if you're thinking I've played 
 through the PlayStation Resident Evil dozens of times, it's not going to scare me because I'll 
 know where the scary parts are! , then there's another surprise, the enemies are in different places, 
 so no matter how many times you've completed the original, you'll still get scared by this.
  
  After landing in a helicopter in the middle of no-where, right beside a creepy looking house, 
 the S. T. A. R. S crew are suddenly attacked by unknown creatures. They head into the house for cover, 
 but little do they know about the adventure ahead.
  
  The game starts as a basic survival horror game. Little ammo and healing items. But as time progresses, 
 that isn't what you'll be worrying about. You'll never know what's around the next corner, it could 
 be a zombie, ready to feast on you're unsuspecting brains, or it could be absolutely nothing. The 
 suspense is literally killing you. You slowly walk around the corner. You see nothing. A few more 
 steps a giant dog covered with wounds jumps out the window and attacks. Almost gives you a heart 
 attack!
  There's also lot's of decision making in Resident Evil: Deadly Silence, as alot of you're choices 
 affects the storyline of the game. And with little healing items you'll often be thinking Heal 
 now, or heal later? . Basically, this creepy mansion is huge! So big in fact, it offer's almost 
 10 hours to complete the game. Only 10 hours? Well, there's also lot's of replay value to be had. 
 With two playable characters, lot's of endings and two modes to play from, you won't be getting 
 bored of this game easy.
  
  Though the gameplay isn't all about making zombies heads explode with you're shotgun. There's also 
 lot's of puzzles throughout the game. They're nothing mind boggling, they just give an awesome 
 use for the touch screen. On the subject of using the touch screen, you can also have first-person 
 knife fights. You use the touch screen to control the knife, moving your stylus upwards for example, 
 would let your character stab upwards, and vice-versa.
  
  The music is just as sinister as the zombies themselves. It creates an eerie atmosphere to the 
 game, as if the lunging zombies around every corner, and you have little ammunition isn't scary 
 enough. Although the cheesy voice acting is still here. It's so bad it gets humorous and really 
 calms you down from your paranoid state. And that isn't a bad thing!
  
  The graphics arn't exactly the best looking graphics for the DS, but nor are they the worst. Being 
 a horror game, it's actually quite colourful. With paintings scattered through out the rooms, and 
 the brightly coloured wall-paper. The stars of the game, don't look too bad either. Very detailed 
 for a 10 year old game. With that said, it doesn't lay back on the violence either. Stabbing a 
 zombie to death will leave it lying in a puddle of blood, or sometimes you can make their heads 
 explode.
  
  The new modes are Rebirth mode, which allows the use of the touch screen and items and enemies 
 in different places, and classic mode which is just the same as the PlayStation Resident Evil.
 
  
  Overall, Resident Evil: Deadly Silence is a great remake of a classic game, which is guaranteed 
 to deliver scares, excitement and enjoyment. Even if you have played the PlayStation Resident Evil 
 to death, there's still something new to be found in Deadly Silence. The game looks gorgeous, it 
 sounds just as good, and it makes fantastic uses of the DS's touch screen and microphone. It is 
 definitely worth a purchase, even to those who don't usually like the horror genre. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: blutdurstig
Rating: 8.7
Date: Feb 1, 2007 2:45 pm PT
Review:  Ever since Resident Evil first came out, I've been addicted to it. The RE series has had some of 
 the best survival horror games ever made. Those games have spooked some of us with the some of 
 the oddest creatures and eerie sound effects and at times they made us laugh, from horrible voice 
 acting to cheesy jokes. Yeah, sure the graphics in newer games are much better then their predecessors, 
 but the original Resident Evil is a pure classic and being able to play it once again on the DS 
 just makes it even more exciting then it was so many years ago. Resident Evil Deadly Silence has 
 brought back some awesome old memories. Sure, it's nowhere near as spooky anymore, since we're 
 used to better graphics now and most of us know exactly what's coming next, but while playing in 
 the Rebirth Mode, the gameplay is enhanced by making the touchscreen an effective and interesting 
 aspect of the game. It's pretty nifty to be able to hack and slash zombies in a first person view 
 (Sorry, Survivor and Dead Aim) . The touchscreen is also used in the puzzles along the way. Definitely 
 a fresh breath of air in the RE world. I'm sure some people won't even bother with the Rebirth 
 Mode and they'll stick to the original gameplay and that's okay! It's still awesome to be able 
 to take the original masterpiece wherever you go! In conclusion, I suggest if you can find this 
 game, buy it. It's an awesome part of any RE collection, but at the same time, it's a nice alternative 
 game for any Nintendo DS owner. Well what are you waiting for?! Go out and get it if you haven't 
 already! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: aflactive
Rating: 8.3
Date: Jan 28, 2007 2:03 pm PT
Review:  RE is known for its clunky control scheme, horrible voice acting, and being... sortof scary. Now, 
 its been re-realeased... again... for the DS, with a few new gameplay options. There's classic mode, 
 which is basically the same game that was originally on the PS, then there's REbirth mode, which 
 is RE with more enemies, more ammo, a few new puzzles that use the DS's touch screen, and knife-fights 
 with zombies on the touch screen.
  It also has a new quick knife function, and a 180-degree turn, which were inspired by RE4.
  
 
  Story
  The story is the same as it always has been, Chris Redfield and Jill Valentinne, who are S. T. A. R. S. 
 (Special Tactics And Rescue Squad, I think) members, find a mysterious mansion while searching 
 for their other S. T. A. R. S members. This is shown in the opening video of the game, which has been 
 tuned down to fit the touch screen.... making it nearly impossible to see it, if you don't have 
 a DS Lite. Once you're in the mansioin, you go around killing zombies, solving puzzles... surviving 
 the horrific, cheesy voice acting... which is kinda funny, in a weird way... Anyway, the main point 
 of the game is to escape the mansion.
  
  Gameplay
  Who doesn't love the classic, clunky controls of RE? ... Me, and a ton of other people. As many 
 other people have said, you control the characters like a tank. It's not as bad as they make it 
 seem, but its definitely outdated, too... The other annoying aspect of this game is the camera, 
 which switches perspectives when you move out of the current camera's perspective. This keeps you 
 from seeing certain enemies, allowing for cheap hits by zombies, hunters, zombie dogs, and the 
 other enemies in this game...
  Aside from the annoying aspects of this game, the good ones are pretty... good. It's fairly easy 
 to shoot zombies and other enemies, and you have to use logic to solve the puzzles, which aren't 
 very hard. (After playing through Twilight Princess, and not using any FAQs, or having any help 
 of any kind, the puzzles in RE are extremely basic to me) There are some pretty decent boss fights 
 too, and the weapons, which include a handgun, your not-so-trusty knife, a shotgun, and a grenade 
 launcher, along with an unlockable Rocket Launcher, aren't half-bad.
  
  Sound
  The sound is... pretty horrible. Not only because of the voice acting, but because of the gunshots 
 and other sound effects too. The gunshots sound exactly like someone snapping their fingers... even 
 the shotgun. Once again, the infamous voice acting, takes a toll here too... From cheesy lines like, 
 Here, take this lockpick, it might be better if you, the master of unlocking, took it, to You were 
 almost a Jill sandwich, and even Jill, you're here too? Yes, you're here too? Its so bad, it's 
 fun to listen to...
  
  Graphics
  This is a DS, not a PSP, so the graphics aren't amazing. From what I heard, they're a little better 
 than the PS1 version. They are half-decent though, so I don't really have a problem with them. 
 Just don't expect anything amazing, like how RE4 was.
  
  Value
  I played the game for a fairly long time. There's a multiplayer mode too, which can help increase 
 the game's value... It's too bad you need a game card for every person though, because you're not 
 too likely to find someone with a copy of this game... Unless you're like the RE fanboy/supernerd 
 in my school, that asks everyone they meet if they have this game... If you like the RE games, 
 and you've played one besides RE4, you should probably get this game. If you have only played RE4, 
 you might want to rent this or borrow it from a friend, because it's amazing how different it is. 
 If you're one of those people that can't stand bad graphics, stay away from this version, and get 
 the gamecube version. (If you want it) It has similar graphics to RE4, and is basically the same 
 game, except way harder and without touch-screen capabilities and the portability that comes with 
 a portable system. I own both, and prefer the DS version... No, scratch that, I enjoyed them both 
 equally as much. So, basically, if you've never played RE, and you want to, it's up to you to choose 
 either the Gamecube version for better graphics, voice acting, and increased difficulty, or the 
 DS version, for DS quality graphics, the same game that was origanally released on the PS, and 
 a revamped, slightly harder version of the game, with touch-screen capabilities. So... If you want, 
 get this game. If you're into games like this, you won't be too dissapointed. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tommyisthebest
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 19, 2007 5:11 pm PT
Review:  i love this game u should really buy it is a world wide franchise that i love i have all the resident 
 evil games ever made i love it if u wanna no more about resident evil stuff that i no and love 
 got to my custom website at biohaze. com ull love it and also gon on rehorror. com trust me its worth 
 buying if this wans a scale from 1 to 5 id give it a five of course im the biggest fan ever so 
 this is mt] y shot summary or review of this gamke i hope u like the game Enjoy! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ThE_bOmB_123
Rating: 8.7
Date: Jan 18, 2007 9:16 pm PT
Review:  This game was amazing! it is just so addictive. Just when you are going to turn off your DS. You 
 have something in your inventory and you know what to do with it. Then after you have done that 
 you get something or learn something and you have to accomplish another little step before turning 
 it off and it never stops. Making it so addictive. There is actually allot of great things in this 
 game like the puzzles. They are easy puzzles in the fact that you know what you are doing. But 
 there is one problem. For an example there might be a door blocking your path and you might need 
 multiple items to open it or just one key. You might have one or none of the items or just don't 
 have the key. So to get this item you have to go to the other side of the house or defeat a monster 
 to get it. Making it challenging and fun. The only problem i have with this game is the voices 
 of the characters. Your player could interact with the other players and they speak kinda strange. 
 It is hard to describe so you have to see it for yourself. But don't let that hold you back from 
 buying it. Because the voices actually make the game kinda funny. So it is never dull. It makes 
 you laugh for a bit then makes you serious about the game again. That little laugh makes the game 
 even better. Another thing about the game is the controls. For new players it can be kinda hard 
 and so annoying. I know cause i faced this problem. But when you start the game there is a room 
 to the left. Go in it and practice because it has no monsters. You will get the hang of it. No 
 worries. After that it is a just great game. I recommend this game to anyone. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: parkej
Rating: 8
Date: Jan 14, 2007 8:51 pm PT
Review:  Bad graphics and ok gamplay but the camera STOP MOVING!!! It is so annoying.
  This is the only game on DS that is MA 15+ but it isn't that scary because the graphics aren't 
 that good. For the price of AU$40 it is pretty good value all up but in pieces it is not that good 
 as u would think. I will rate this game 8.2 because of the graphics it lets the game down and the 
 rating should be at least M +15. They should make an other one but with better graphics and gameplay.
 
  
  
  
  Join Ze Metroid Union 
::::::

::::::
UserName: candy_love
Rating: 9.7
Date: Jan 13, 2007 10:24 am PT
Review:  love it such a great classic brought to pocket nintendo ds lite. it is every bit as good as the 
 original but extra added puzzles and i love that it gets the gamer more involved ( if that is possible) 
 still as scary as it ever was and keeps you in great suspence it is very easy to be all out of 
 ammo tho quite a few times i have been caught out by haveing no ammo and a room full of foes. also 
 the firts person knife game that is involved with this game makes it extra cool and you get little 
 presents for killing them all 
::::::

::::::
UserName: garydbzfan
Rating: 8.3
Date: Jan 3, 2007 6:37 pm PT
Review:  well where can i start resident evil ds is brilliant i cant put it down the ds just goes so well 
 with this game the touch screen and the top screen ............. well then resident evil ds is STARS 
 team invesagating the dissaperance of BRAVO TEAM . AND ALPHA TEAM. they land to see whats going 
 on and see BRAVO TEAM'S helicopter crashed and investagated all round the area and only to find 
 some monster that has killed 1 of their members so they all run to this mansion for cover and safty 
 .. the main people are jill and chris .... well thats the start of the story..... when playing as 
 jill u are looking for her lost partner chris redfield.. [has gone missing] and when playing as 
 chris you are looking for barry burton also gone missing... its quite a big game if u dont no what 
 are doing the graphics are ok in the ds version its better then the previous resi 1 for ps1 anyway 
 ..
  its very enjoyable to play and makes u jump out your skin from time to time the touch screen is 
 amazing in some rooms u can kill the zombies with the stylus ... solve puzzles with the stylus 
 also ... the game fetures.. rebirth mode with is the ds version. or classic mode which is the playstation1 
 version which was crap really 2 be honest .... the story is the same but theres so many more thing 
 u can do in rebirth which is truly amazing i reccomend this game to any 1 that likes resident evil 
 and horror games and films its a very good game indeed i have had it like 4 months and still playing 
 it ..... so thats my review i hope u like it peeps :) thanks 4 reading ....... :) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: UnDeAdEviL
Rating: 8.4
Date: Jan 3, 2007 11:51 am PT
Review:  Going back to the basics with RESIDENT EVIL with new features.
  So to start with the graphics.
  Its the same old PS1 graphics which where not good but you get 
 used to seeing them.
  Gameplay.
  Pretty solid gameplay but there is disappointing things about it but not to bad just you have to 
 stop the shoot and good puzzles pretty simple aswell.
  Sound.
  Good sound effects the old bang bang roah brains ahh and good gun effects i participially like 
 the knive sounds
  Value.
  Ok the value well the game will last a couple of days (if your good at it) . and theres a new mode 
 Rebirth it's the same game with the new first person view mode where you have to use your knive 
 and stab and cut zombies dogs and more and new puzzles like in some rooms theres chests you must 
 use your stick to unlock them. And there's mulitplayer where there's two modes Verus and co-op Verus 
 is you have to kill yellow or purple enemies Co-op is where you and your freinds share the same 
 health bar and enemies also do and when everyones in the room at once you get a attack bonus you 
 can share items by putting them in storage boxs but only one person can use it at once. Overall 
 its a great game with good replay value i'd recommend it to anyone that likes a decent surival 
 horror game and has a Nintendo DS. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DuskLord
Rating: 8.7
Date: Dec 14, 2006 1:37 am PT
Review:  (I've gotta admit, I wouldn't have bought this game for the DS myself, but my wife bought it to 
 me as an early christmas present.)
  
  I like the way they've added some additional things to the game, making use of DS's built-in mic 
 and the touch screen to solve some puzzles. Also, at some points (seems completely random?) when 
 you enter a room, you'll get a first person view, wielding a knife, and you'll have to slash the 
 zombies into pieces on the touch screen, that is some major fun, I tell you!
  
  The game looks and sounds just as good as the original version. Might complain about the FMV's 
 being damn blurry, but it really doesn't matter since there isn't too many of those anyway. The 
 game is best when played with headphones, like every great horror game is.
  
  The cartridge holds the improved DS version, the entire original version (which doesn't make use 
 of any DS built-in thingies) , and some sort of a multi cartridge multiplayer mode, which I'm unable 
 to try due to lack of friends with a DS...
  
  Propably the only points of complain I have with this are the controls (PSX's analog stick works 
 WAY better than DS's small d-pad) , the tiny tiny and illogical inventory (a bazooka takes the same 
 space than a lighter etc) , and the ridiculous save system, which was annoying in the original RE 
 as well. During the course of game, you'll discover items called Ink Ribbons. These are very limited, 
 and they take one spot from your already stuffed inventory. These are the items you'll need to 
 save. And it's so friggin stupid...
  
  Overall I'm saying... If you still own the first RE on the PSX, you propably won't find this game 
 worth your money, since there aren't too many new additions... But for the newcomers of the series 
 : Get a hold of this! It's a damn classic! Just be sure you have a roll of toilet paper and a spare 
 pair of pants near you... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Facemeat
Rating: 9.2
Date: Dec 8, 2006 8:25 am PT
Review:  Now, onto the review.
  
  Gameplay: 9/10 I must admit, when I started this game, I was a little skeptical. I didn't like 
 the camera angle, or the controls. But after getting the hang of it, I loved it! It fits the game 
 perfectly! I also liked the implementation of puzzles, and the fact that that you couldn't just 
 shoot everything that moved.
  
  Graphics: 9/10 WOW! For a DS game, these graphics are amazing! The characters, the backgrounds, 
 so much goodness!
  
  Sound: 9/10 The sound is really good in this game. The footsteps, the music, the zombies, this 
 game is atmospheric.
  
  Value: 8/10 It's taken me about ten hours so far, so, fairly high.
  
  Tilt: 10/10 As you can 
 tell, I loved this game. The thrills! The chills! And... the puzzles?! RE is truly a classic. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DeathaXx98
Rating: 9.6
Date: Dec 7, 2006 11:23 am PT
Review:  ... I just wish that they would of used the voices from the gamecube remake instead and not old 
 crappy ones. But this said, that is the ONLY thing wrong with this game.
  
  If you like survival horror games then it is understandable why you should play this. This game 
 offers the old original version and REbirth mode. Original takes you way back to when the series 
 was starting on and since i haven't played this game first (and before this have only played the 
 kickass fourth, this game put together all of the pieces of the puzzle. There are so many ways 
 to beat this game for both characters that you will become fascinated with unlocking all of them. 
 After that is done you can play the new REbirth mode. In this mode you play through the classic 
 mode but this time you are even more active. There are new puzzles, special knife battles, and 
 you actually get to use that microphone you can see on your DS but have no clue why it has one. 
 The last special feature is the Master of Knifing mini game. Using your finger of stylus the game 
 goes into first person view, you see enemys coming at you so you swing or stab controlling the 
 knife. This is extemley hard the first time you play (much like the actual game) , but you will hooked 
 and better in no time.
  
  All in all a great game for any RE fan, and i definitely, recommend you to buy this game.
  9.6/10 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mcrfan44
Rating: 8.7
Date: Dec 2, 2006 9:22 pm PT
Review:  Resident Evil: Deadly Silence (or RE: DS as I like to call it) is the same Resident Evil released 
 for the Playstation in 1996. At least, Classic mode is. Youve also got a new mode called Rebirth 
 mode. Which adds new gameplay additions like touch-screen knife fights, new enemies in different 
 places, and a completely new way to complete puzzles. I played and beat both modes so Ill tell 
 you about them and compare them throughout the review. For those unfamiliar with the story: Youre 
 a member of an elite team called S. T. A. R. S, Special Tactics and Rescue Squad, and youve been sent 
 to investigate a rash of disappearances and strange murders in Raccoon City. Youve also been sent 
 to locate Bravo team, which has gone missing while investigating the same occurrences. As you fly 
 over a forest, you see a fallen helicopter, presumably Bravo teams. You go down to investigate 
 and are attack by some kind of monster. You run toward a mansion, the only shelter in sight. However, 
 once you enter, youll start to wonder whether you wouldve been safer outside
  -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
  The gameplay in both modes still holds up pretty good. But basically, if you hated Resident Evil 
 before, youll still hate it now. Your character still controls like a tank, although to help a 
 bit, Capcom has included the one button 180-degree turn that debuted later in the series. At the 
 start of the game you get a choice of two characters, Chris or Jill. Jill is automatically set 
 to Normal mode, while Chris is set to Hard. Also, Jill can hold more items (2 to be specific) but 
 cant take as much damage as Chris. Classic mode is Resident Evil exactly as it was in 1996. Its 
 all the same puzzles, enemies, and weapons as before. Rebirth mode changes the puzzles around a 
 bit and adds those gameplay elements I mentioned earlier. The save system for both modes is still 
 the same. You can only save when you find typewriters and then only if youre carrying ink ribbons. 
 But there are enough ribbons lying around to almost guarantee you wont run out, so it never gets 
 to the point where the save system is frustrating. Also the item system remains unchanged. You 
 can only carry a limited amount of items and you cant drop them. You can store your extra items 
 in item boxes, which are located all throughout the game. And, thankfully, all the item boxes are 
 connected. This can lead to some frustration, as most items arent stackable (with the exceptions 
 of ammo and ink ribbons) . So it can be annoying if you find an item that is essential to a puzzle 
 only to find out that your inventory is full. But this doesnt happen often. One cool thing about 
 the gameplay is that each character has a different viewpoint and storyline. In other words, its 
 worth it to go back and play as the other character after youve beaten the game. Overall, gameplay 
 is RE: DSs biggest strength.
  -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
  RE: DSs graphics arent good. The game looks pretty terrible compared to other ds games. But 
 its by all means still playable. You wont have a hard time distinguishing static objects from 
 moveable ones. One thing that does look pretty nice are its FMV sequences and Im pretty sure 
 that its the only ds game Ive played thats used them.
  -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
  The sound in RE: DS is amazing and somehow made a perfect translation to the dss little speakers. 
 You can still hear a zombies footsteps or a Hunters growl with perfect clarity. This is essential 
 to gameplay and Im glad it turned out as good as it did. One thing youll notice is the horrible 
 voice acting. Although at this point, its not so much bad as hilarious. Some of the quotes are 
 the most famous in videogame history.
  ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
  The value of this game is good for a couple of reasons. One is the multiple run throughs for each 
 character and mode. And another are the things you unlock after you beat the game once. You unlock 
 a new Master of Knifing mode, which is a series of knife fights. And you get a key, which unlocks 
 alternate costumes for the character you beat the game with.
  ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
  Overall, RE: DS is a great addition to any ds owners collection as it is the only one of its 
 kind out for the ds right now. The graphics may not be the greatest, but its gameplay and replayablity 
 make up for it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SilentBliss
Rating: 8.8
Date: Dec 2, 2006 7:52 am PT
Review:  The game resident evil is an excellent game. Porting from the ps 10 years later with some graphical 
 improvements and new controls like the first person knife cutting thing and the mouth to mouth. 
 The game is is the sam as the first so if your new to the series you should start from here. The 
 only thing I found wrong with this game is the controls. The ds lite its harder to control unlike 
 the regular DS. The game has two playable characters. Another bad point of this game is the horrible 
 voice acting I wonder if capcom even cared about the voice acting. Awesome Game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Endlessinstant
Rating: 8.9
Date: Dec 1, 2006 9:50 am PT
Review:  In 1996 one of the most amazing, shocking, and brilliant games of all time was released on the 
 Sony Playstation. In this legendary title you took the role of an operative for the S. T. A. R. S unit 
 as you investigated a series of murders that had plagued the nearby town. What began as a mundane 
 criminal investigation soon spiraled into a gene defining game - survival horror. The goal of Resident 
 Evil was to make it through the game whilst trying to find ways to get past the legions of scary 
 things on limited supplies. It was very, very good at what it did. So good in fact, that it's sequel 
 became one of the most highly anticipated titles of the late 90s. We all loved it back then. It 
 was new, it was fresh, it was brilliant.
  
  The original game was not without it's flaws - the acting was simply god awful. Sure, we were all 
 impressed by the full voice acting, something that hadn't been seen in a console game, but none 
 of us were stupid enough to believe that this was ~good~ acting. So we just snickered through the 
 cutscenes and kept playing because blowing heads off zombies with a shotgun was just so damn satisfying. 
 Well, a lot of things change in ten years. Nintendo finally switched to a disc-based medium. Those 
 weird DVD things are on their way out. Microsoft is in the console making business. Sonic is on 
 Nintendo. Lots of things change. And lots of times people say that older games just aren't as fun 
 as they used to be. With the way games have improved they say, it's hard to turn back to those 
 old classics and get the same kind of fun out of them. After all, they just aren't as advanced! 
 Well, as a retro gamer I must grudgingly acknowledge that with some old games it can be hard to 
 see what was fun about them. Take the original Mario Bros for instance - a game I spent hundreds 
 of hours on as a kid - but to play it now, on the Wii, it seems dreadful. Fortunately for all of 
 us, the same thing can't be said about Resident Evil. It's still just as fun and exciting as it 
 was back in 1996. The visuals might look frighteningly dated on a console but the strength of Resident 
 Evil's trademark pre-rendered backdrops proves to be just as potent on the portable DS as it was 
 on the PSX back in 1996. The game looks absolutely gorgeous. Compare it to a game like Grand Theft 
 Auto: Liberty City Stories on the competing Playstation Portable then realize that this game is 
 ten years old. In some ways I missed the pre-rendered backdrops when we moved to the PS2 era. Capcom 
 used them so well! Here they look just as great as they always have. - This game looks good. So, 
 great visuals? Check. We already had great gameplay - though in fairness the original Resident 
 Evil will seem frighteningly easy compared to some of the later games in the series such as the 
 tiring Code Veronica (Fifteen bullets for Fifteen zombies eh? No problem! What? A field of bandersnatchers 
 with just a combat knife? A cakewalk!) . There are plenty of health drops in RE1 (In fact too many 
 some might argue) and enough ammo that you ought to be able to drop mostly every enemy you run 
 across. There have been a couple upgrades to the game too, for instance you now have access to 
 your combat knife on the fly - much like in Resident Evil 4. It no longer takes up a precious inventory 
 space making it go from useless to quite useful. You'll be able to save at least 1 to 2 handgun 
 bullets per zombie if you know how to use it and those bullets add up to make the game much easier 
 to manage. Still, this doesn't detract from the gameplay, you'll still find RE1 just as challenging 
 as it always was. The Dual Screens are also put to fine use as the top screen is used to give you 
 a permanent map to use (How I love this! Having to check the map in the menu constantly in the 
 original... oh the annoyance) while also displaying your health and ammo. The Advanced Mode from 
 the Director's Cut sadly doesn't make an appearance in this game. But the original game is completely 
 intact along with the double item training mode (You have to use a 'code' to access it) so if you're 
 thinking 'Man, the original RE1 in portable form would be sweet!' then you'll be very VERY pleased 
 to know that that is EXACTLY what you are going to get. For a total RE freak it might very well 
 be one of the best titles ever released on a handheld. But the brilliance of Deadly Silence isn't 
 just that it's a port of a 10 year old masterpiece, there's also a Rebirth mode that once again 
 remixes the game we all know and love. This time instead of making puzzles more challenging though 
 we're greeted with a mode clearly influenced by Resident Evil 4 with an emphasis on action - a 
 lot more enemies but also a lot more ammo makes this mode fast paced and fun. Plus it takes excellent 
 advantage of the DS's touch screen and microphone to present some very interesting puzzles, things 
 you've never done before. In short, even a veteran of the original game whose played through it 
 one hundred times is going to find something new with this lovely little game card. There are also 
 some very interesting multiplayer modes if you've got some buddies with DSes and copies of the 
 game. These modes even give you the opportunity to jump in the skins of some of the BRAVO team 
 characters. I always wondered what it would be like to be Forest... So, who is this game for? Just 
 about everybody. The visuals are on par with anything out on the DS or PSP, the gameplay mechanics 
 are still solid - albeit different from RE4- and the game is just plain fun. Be you a veteran of 
 the series or someone who never got the chance to touch RE1 this game is worth checking out. And 
 it gives hope. What other great N64/PSX/Saturn era classics might appear on these little handhelds? 
 For portable gamers this ten year old masterpiece has become a masterpiece all over again. Be sure 
 not to miss out on it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: legochip10
Rating: 8.9
Date: Nov 26, 2006 1:57 pm PT
Review:  A great game to add to the Resident Evil collection. I only have this and RE4 so far, but i will 
 get RE2 at some point.
  
  Gameplay: 9/10 If you like blasting zombie heads off and the guts out of giant spiders you'd give 
 this rating too! I gave it a nine because there are points where the graphics are blocky, like 
 the blood, but it still looks awesome! There are cheezy scenes just listening to them talk, seriously 
 I can act better than them. This game can get a little frustrating but has an unlockable minigame 
 at the end of the game and has about 4-6 different endings to the it. There are 2 different choices 
 to how you want to play the game.
  Classic - the original ps game no changes really.
  Rebirth - more enemies, more puzzles, and use of the touch screen from knifing to solving a puzzle.
 
  Both take about 6 hrs the first time, but about 3 hrs from there on.
  
  Graphics: 9/10 Cool effects of the zombies loosing thier heads just a little bit blocky thats all.
 
  
  Sound: 8/10 Good sound effects and can really help you to hear the footsteps around the corner. 
 The only problem is the sound of the footsteps. Doesn't really sound like they are walking on a 
 rug when it sounds like walking on rocks, but this is something you get used to.
  
  Value: 9/10 A game I'd like to play alot when i get back into playing it. For example, i hadn't 
 played this in a while, but about 3 days ago i picked it up and liked it as if i was playing it 
 for the first time. It's fun!
  
  Tilt: 9/10 You can unlock a minigame. Can get an INFINANT ROCKET LAUNCHER if you beat the game 
 in 3 hrs. I know alsome! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: katman
Rating: 7.4
Date: Nov 21, 2006 3:43 am PT
Review:  I admit, I somehow never played a Resident Evil game. I managed to miss out on all of them, so 
 I was happy to have the chance to play this first game of the series on my new DS-Lite. Popped 
 in the cartridge and was transported back in time 10 years to bad graphics and horrible but funny 
 voice-overs.
  
  First of all, the tank steering controls suck! There is no getting around that it is very frustrating 
 and hard to adjust to. My girlfriend gave up on the game because of them, and was amazed that I 
 had enough patience to finish the game.
  
  I admit I played thru as Jill (easy) on the even easier Training level, so maybe that had something 
 to do with me being able to finish the game.
  
  With all that said, I admit I had a lot of fun playing this game on my DS. Maybe not enough fun 
 to replay the game on a harder setting, but I clocked in just under 10 hours, and feel good about.
 
  
  Maybe someday I'll go back and play thru as the other character Chris, to see the story from his 
 point of view.
  
  In summary, if you've never played the game before, I can recommend it if you think you have patience 
 to deal with the horrible controls.
  
  Plus, I finally got to hear the famous Jill Sandwich line! Pretty cool. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: andydecorte
Rating: 8.3
Date: Feb 11, 2007 7:42 am PT
Review:  Zombies ? Let's Kick Some Asses !!
  
  Resident evil is all about zombies :D they are fun too kill and they make great uuuuh sounds :p. 
 I never thought that i would have a chance to kill zombies on my Nintendo ds lite... but capcom 
 surprised me with resident evil ds.
  
  The game is a horror genre but if you play it you can see that the graphics don't show much Horror 
 :d But i didn't had any problem with that because the gameplay is good and the real horror is the 
 story.
  
  The game has some fun extra's on the Ds.
  You can solve puzzles with youre stylus and sometimes you need to do knife fights against zombies 
 when they are at 1 inch away from you... Slash them and walk over them :D...
  
  You can play with Jill &amp; Chris if you do the story mode (and sometimes with Rebbecca) and thats 
 the fun about this game... you get 2 different story's and stuff but they all come together at 
 the end, and thats why this game is good if you want to play it again because it's not the same.
 
  
  When you complete the game for the first time you get Master of knifing with is a little bonus 
 game for people who want to get more skilled in their knifing experiences.
  
  They say the voice acting sucks but really ... while you are playing you don't give a damn about 
 it :|.
  
  Conclusion : This game is worth his money, graphics are very good for the nintendo ds. Capcom ... 
 Bring out resident evil 2 &amp; 3 :D 
::::::

::::::
UserName: f8al13
Rating: 8.1
Date: Oct 29, 2006 9:50 am PT
Review:  The re-make of the classic playstation version of resident evil is a very fun game. Although it 
 has horrible voice acting from the playstation it is still a very fun game. Resident Evil: Deadly 
 Silence actually has two versions two play the classic version wich is actually exactly like the 
 paystation and then theres the newer version version wich I don't know what its called because 
 my ds is down stares and I don't want to get it but back to the point the newer version is basically 
 the same version as the classic but it has ds controls. This game has awesome game play with horrible 
 sound and pretty bad graphics. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hawkeye_12
Rating: 8.7
Date: Oct 29, 2006 4:08 am PT
Review:  Resident evil DS is unfortunately not a whole new game for nintendo's double screen wonder, it 
 is, in fact, yet ANOTHER remake for the origianal on the Playstation, it has been remade various 
 times, but unfortunately, it it brings very little new to the game.
  
  OK, first off when you go to start, you will be faced with a choice of classic mode, or rebirth 
 mode, classic mode has got nothing but a new quick draw for the knife, whearas the rebirth mode 
 has more ammo, new puzzles and a stupid new minigame (sort of) where you slash zombies usuing the 
 touch- screen. For those who have played and completed the origianal (or any remakes but the one 
 on the GC) , rebirth is the way to go, for non- fans of the series, rebirth is the way to go, as 
 classic is really hard, but for any fans of the series that have not played this or have only played 
 the REmake on the Nintendo Gamecube Classic is certainly the way to go, as it is that classic resident 
 evil game.
  
  Then, you will be faced with another decision, Jill valentine, or chris redfield, jill is easy/easier 
 than chris, chris is hard, and they take pretty different paths through the game, so its worth 
 playing the game a good few times.
  
  From there and on, you have a resident evil adventure, but anyone who adores the fresh, brand new 
 4th resident evil will be dissapointed, as its the older resi, the clunky controls, the saving 
 bullets and stuff, and even when on the rebirth, its just slightly more bullets, and a few new 
 touch- screen related features, and there is a whole lot of dissapointment waiting to happen on 
 this game.
  
  And resident evil newcomers might not like it, purely because resident evil has always been a love 
 or hate game, as were all of its sequels but 4, many gamers could never find any appeal to it, because 
 of its so apparent things that seperate it from being a zombie killing game, many people dislike 
 saving bullets and controlling a person like a tank.
  
  Even though resident evil has always had an aquirred taste, the origianal was huge, and pretty 
 much everyone will have played it, so its another thing bad, everyone will have played it before, 
 the only one which was actually different from the origianal was the great gamecube remake so if 
 thats the only version you have played, this is a must.
  
  Well, you must be wondering why such a high score, then? well thats simple, i adore resident evil, 
 any resident evil, on any console, i have played almost every version of this, and i will never 
 get bored of it, and i like the rebirth mode because there is new touch- screen related puzzles, 
 its graphics are very well done, and i love going back to the cheesy and terrible cutscenes and 
 most of all blood, hope its not chris's blood that hilarious line.
  
  Multi- player section coming soon, i havn't had a chance to play it yet. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: RaidersR2Nice4U
Rating: 9.1
Date: Oct 22, 2006 6:31 am PT
Review:  you think resident evil for the DS, kinda poor (is what you think) and your a little scared to 
 buy it cuz it might not be that good. well if u thought that like i did, BUY IT! this game rocks 
 the DS and brings it to new hights. if u never played the original for the Play Station or Gamecube 
 and u loved it, this game is awsome, and its portable so if your bored an your not buy a TV then 
 you got the game right in your hands. this game sets difficult puzzles, hard types of enemys and 
 a great story line. but most of all, ITS A RESIDENT EVIL GAME, COME ON EVERY SINGLE RESIDENT EVIL 
 GAME WAS GREAT! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: -Predatorian-
Rating: 9.7
Date: Sep 28, 2006 5:49 am PT
Review:  This game is the perfect Resident evil because it fits even to your pocket!
  The gameplay mechanism is perfect like everything in this game!
  Except that i don&acute; t like 
 the size of the item pockets. A couple blocks more space and this game would be perfect! And even 
 the difficulty level has been set to just right. (allthrough the Jill mode is a little bit too easy) And 
 i would recommend this game to everyone who has a DS (or to all who want to play a REALLY good RE) . 
 And the graphics... WOW! They are far more better than in the original PlayStation. Their so good 
 i can&acute; t really discribe them! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Bobinjobin
Rating: 8.8
Date: Sep 16, 2006 12:22 pm PT
Review:  Resident Evil DS is the First and maybe last resident evil game for the DS I would recomend this 
 game for anybody who is a fan of resident evil series or owns a DS. This game is pretty easy consiering 
 the last boss only takes about 3 shots from the magnum to kill it any way the new mode rebirth 
 is just great you use the touch screen when you see a first person view and your knife is in front 
 of you to swing it, you use the touch screen for some puzzles and even the microphone. all and 
 all Resident evil DS is a great remake of the classic Resident Evil. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: irsteve
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jan 15, 2008 6:05 pm PT
Review:  This game is addictive for a while, the people of capcom did not decide to redo the graphics in 
 the slightest and I do believe the DS's graphical power is a bit better than a regular PS's. But 
 its still a good game. I really like it because the idea of fightin off zombies and runin around 
 is totaly cool, but the story is also really good, and for the most part easy to follow especially 
 if you have watched both movies (3 now) . So.... ya this game is pretty hard on either mode esspecially 
 since the first part of the game in not very liniar. Hard mode isnt much harder than normal... 
 the only diffrence, as far as i got was you dont start out with a gun and you have to visit storage 
 crates more often, considering you can only carry six items.
  The Deadly Silent's pet... boastyness is a few touch functions were you slash enemy's in a first 
 person stab and slash the enemys, the other touch functions mainly involve solving puzzles and 
 beating enemys on your character. Rebirth mode (the only part were you can use the touch functions) 
 is easyier because after a knife battle you may aquire something like mabye a green herb or ammo's 
 of various types. Another thing that you may find attractive about rebirth mode is that although 
 there are more zombies you will find more ammo and usefull things throughout the game, and this 
 makes it way easyier. Lastly... This is a really good game aside from bad old voicing, and theres 
 nothing new about the graphics and following the storyline or finding your way around isnt really 
 liniar. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DonDougan
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 7, 2006 12:43 pm PT
Review:  Resident Evil DS is a great game the controls can take a bit of getting used to but once you get 
 the hang of them your off and it seems so easy from there on. I like the fact that they kept the 
 characters from the first Resident Evil for the Playstation because the characters were great. 
 The other great thing is the touch screen battles i like it how they added it in so you can use 
 the DS to its max by using the touch screen and using normal controls. The strory line is exactly 
 the same as the first Resident Evil right down to where the enemies are which is a goos thing if 
 you completed the first one because you know what to expect next. Overall i think this is a great 
 game and i hope that people will read this review and enjoy the game as much as i did. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DbleBassDrummer
Rating: 4.8
Date: Oct 2, 2006 8:58 pm PT
Review:  Resident Evil is the game that launched a phenomenon. It set the standard for horror games, and 
 terrified gamers for sequels to come. Now, the DS makes use of it's impressive hardware by porting 
 the game in full. That's right; everything that was in the original Playstation version, including 
 the live action beginning and ending sequences is here. Although a Resident Evil title is welcome 
 within the DS's small desperate circle of action games, another version of Resident Evil may just 
 be a bit too much. Not only has everyone played this game to death, and its controls dated horribly, 
 it doesn't even translate into a handheld game well at all.
  
  Unless you've been living under a rock, you know all about Jill and Chris, members of S. T. A. R. S., 
 a police special forces team. They are the two playable of Resident Evil who find themselves trapped 
 inside a mansion on a mission to find their compatriots. Inside, they find zombies, monsters, mutants, 
 you name it. Everything about the game is the same, for better and for worse. The voice acting 
 is still so utterly horrible that it's great. (mm.. Jill Sandwegde!) The controls are still difficult 
 to get used to, and if you've never played before, you'll likely run head first into zombies and 
 die a few times. You'll also run out of bullets if you get too trigger happy. The idea of this 
 game is to conserve ammo, and most gamers don't get that right away. You'll need to collect keys 
 to open different rooms, and solve geographic puzzles to move objects or gain access to other ares. 
 In the meantime, zombies are popping up around corners. Surviving isn't easy, as you have a limited 
 number of items. You need ink ribbons to save, mix herbs to heal, and have a magical chest to store 
 all your items in. Some of these things may seem like they're long outdated methods, but keep in 
 mind when this game came out. The thing that must be said about Resident Evil is that the second 
 installment made the first obsolete in every way, and even that came out a good number of years 
 ago. It can't be helped how horribly obsolete it feels.
  
  When grading a handheld game, which obviously doesn't support the power that next gen systems, 
 or even current systems have, I take a few things into consideration. Also, I tend to factor in 
 the distinct advantages that a handheld game has to one for a console, which Resident Evil makes 
 no compromises with. For example, I tend to take my DS with me on the go and play it between classes, 
 waiting on line, or in the car. Rarely do I ever sit down and play a handheld game in anything 
 other than a few short spurts a day. This is one reason that Resident Evil is not supposed to be 
 a handheld game. The saving methods are exactly the same as they were in the original, where you 
 have a limited number of ink ribbons, and have to save at specific points where a typewriter is 
 placed. No sort of tempsave feature is presented, which makes this game a difficult one to play 
 if you're on the go. Another advantage the DS has is the touch screen. Instead of utilizing it 
 in a ninteresting way, Deadly Silence throws in a number of pointless mini-games at seemingly random 
 spots in the mansion. It's interesting, to say the least, but not worth the price of admission. 
 Another issue that Resident Evil faces as a handheld is that your ability to aim is severely limited, 
 and it's hard to see what direction your gun is pointing on such a small screen. Resident Evil 
 was not intended to be played this way. If you choose to, however, do so with caution. Another 
 thing that hurts Resident Evil as a handheld is that sometimes, you may need to play with the sound 
 off, depending on where you are. Sound is critical to creating the suspense that made this game 
 so popular in the first place.
  
  Visually, Resident Evil: Deadly Silence looks great, especially in the palm of your hand. The graphics 
 look smooth, and the zombies look extremely detailed without being muddy. The pre-rendered backgrounds 
 look nice as ever, and even do a better job of mixing with movable objects. Maybe this can be attributed 
 to the size of the screen, but nontheless, it no longer feels like an old Scooby-Do cartoon where 
 you can tell which object in the back is going to move. The live action cutscenes, as few and as 
 laughably horrible as they are look great, but they are shrunken a little bit, likely to reduce 
 the resolution. The sound on the other hand, is horrible. The footsteps and gunshots all sound 
 like they were done on a poorly made MIDI system. It's the same as the Playstation version mostly, 
 but the DS speakers are not good at all. It can also be hard to hear, and sound is crucial to a 
 title like this. Bring headphones.
  
  The biggest problem with Resident Evil: Deadly Silence is strictly a financial one. It feels a 
 little weird paying up to $35 for a game that most people have not only played already, but have 
 a copy or two lying around. Though the rebirth mode throws in a few new twists and gameplay mechanics, 
 it still feels awfully similar. In light of Resident Evil 4, a behind the back perspective would 
 have been great. The new suprises and the even the semi-pointless touch screen sequences don't 
 really make Deadly SIlence feel like its own new game. When you get down to it, the only real big 
 new thing you're paying for is the novelty of having this classic in your pocket. The question 
 is, how much is that worth to you? It's nice to have, but if you're on any sort of budget, no price 
 may be worth it.
  
  This is not even one of those cases where you can say, This is a great chance for those new to 
 the series to get acquainted with it's roots, as a remake already exists for the Gamecube, which 
 not only looks prettier than every other version, but fixed some of the bugs and clunky controls 
 from the original Playstation version that the DS is plagued with. Although the inclusion of the 
 quick 180 degree turn helps, you still feel like you're controlling a tank rather than an actual 
 human. Many joke that the reason the game is so tense is because the poor controls make it harder 
 to get away. It probably wouldn't be so funny if it weren't so true.
  
  I realize that I've been extremely negative on this game. It's a shame, too, since it's actually 
 a lot of fun to play. As outdated as it feels, it's still one of the most beloved games out there. 
 As I said before, the novelty of being able to keep in your pocket despite it's obvious issues 
 of being a handheld game may warm the heart of the deepest Resident Evil fans. The only other reason 
 you'd want to play it on DS is because of the non-existantloading times, which feel like such a 
 blessing. The multi-player mode of this is something I have not yet experienced, as cool as it 
 looks, I must admit. It's multi-card play only, and it was hard or me to convince myself to finally 
 cough up the dough for this one. How can I ever convince my friends to do so?
  
  In the end, Resident Evil: Deadly Silence seems to have a rather pointless existence. It's great, 
 and rather impressive that a Playstation game can be ported to a cartridge based handheld system, 
 but too often it feels like it was made just because it could be done. Resident Evil: Deadly Silence 
 feels extremely obsolete so that it would turn away new gamers, and it's way too pricey to attract 
 nostalgia seekers, especially when most already have a copy of it lying around somewhere. If you 
 can manage to pick up a copy at a price that feels right to you, do so, since its by no means a 
 bad game. Hopefully next time a Resident Evil game comes out for DS, it will be an original game 
 that makes use of the uniqueness of the system; Because for God sakes, a new version of this game 
 should never be released, not again. Or better yet, Capcom, stick to consoles. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: oddballrulez
Rating: 9.8
Date: Sep 6, 2006 9:03 am PT
Review:  S. T. A. R. S Alpha team is sent to the outskirts of raccoon forest to search for their buddies from 
 BRAVO team. The team consists of Albert Wesker. Barry Burton. Chris Redfield. Jill Valentine. and 
 Rebecca chambers. Chris and Jill take role as lead characters, (as they are playable.. makes sense.)
 
  
  Now anyone who may have played the origional shall instantly recognise that this is no 'new' game. 
 This is infact, a rather excellent port of the playstation classic, just with 'Deadly Silence' 
 slapped on the box. This is in no way a bad thing, as everything has come across brilliantly, from 
 graphics to gameplay, its all there.
  
  As previously mentioned, you are banged straight into the action (and puzzle solving) as Chris, 
 or Jill. Depending on the character you choose, the game's story shall role out in a slightly different 
 way. SO, you guide your character through the mansion with the good ol' tank controls, solving 
 puzzles killing zombies and generally smashin to mutant teeth. (i wont go in more depth incase 
 i spoil anything.)
  
  Anyway, if you can ever get this game cheep enough (or hell, just buy it!) then definitely give 
 it a shot! unless you are an absolute ANTI resident evil fan. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jessicaevil
Rating: 9.3
Date: Sep 6, 2006 5:09 am PT
Review:  Really I dont really like handhelds other then the PSP im more of a console/pc girl but I have 
 to admit I played this on the ds and it was really cool but you will only like it if you are a 
 hardcore resident evil player like me for instance. i think its cool that you can actually hold 
 resident evil in you r hands... SWEET! But overall it is a good came it has good grapics for a handheld. 
 Its adictive and fun to play. Its not as good as the others and its alot easier (to me) But it is 
 still a good game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: LedFanatic4
Rating: 7.1
Date: Sep 5, 2006 1:41 am PT
Review:  In March of 1996, the first installment in the Resident Evil series, Resident Evil, was released 
 the the Playstation. Later remade on the Gamecube with improved graphics and gameplay, the 2002 
 version was much much better than the original. Now being remade for the DS, Resident Evil Deadly 
 Silence is lacking many of the important elements found in the previous versions.
  
  Graphics: 6
  
  The graphics overall are grainy and not polished whatsoever. Capcom could have 
 taken more time in making the graphics clearer and more defined, because the DS could handle better 
 graphics than the game offered. If Capcom had used the DS to its full potential, the graphics could 
 be much better than they are in this version of the game. Also, compared to the Gamecube's graphics, 
 the DS's visuals look dull and the atmosphere isn't frightening at all. There are no dark corridors 
 to explore, and the zombies look more hilarious then they do threatening.
  
  Gamplay: 7
  
  Absolutely nothing is wrong with the gameplay, it's just that they could've added more. Basically 
 you play as Jill (or Chris) and you have to solve some puzzles which are fairly difficult at times, 
 and shoot zombies to help you find your way out of the mansion. In this version of Resident Evil, 
 you would want to kill more zombies than the Gamecube, because running away isn't as easy, and 
 ammo is plentiful.
  
  Controls: 6
  
  The controls are clunky at first, and take a very long time to get used to if you hadn't played 
 any other installments in the series (besides RE4) . For some, the controls could be so frustrating 
 that it ruins the entire game, but for those who are experienced with terrible controls and characters 
 that move like tanks, it gets okay after some practice. Wielding your weapons is easy, just hold 
 R and pressing the fire button, while aiming with your D-pad. In some cases, the lack of a joystick 
 could make movement difficult, but the D-pad works fine (like always) once you adjust.
  
  Sound: 8
  
  The sounds are fairly good during the game. The music isn't as scary as in the 
 other Resident Evils, but it does use the most that the DS can offer. Character sounds are terrible, 
 however. The dialogue and the voices are cheesy as hell, but sometimes add some entertainment.
 
  
  Overall: 6
  
  Resident Evil DS could've been much better if Capcom had put more time into the game, but it still 
 does have its shining moments. In case you were too lazy to read the review, here's a quick list 
 of Pros and Cons.
  
  Pros:
  -Shooting zombies' heads off is still fun
  -Puzzles are challenging at times
  -Lots of fun exploration
  -Music adds to the atmosphere 
 Capcom is trying to achieve
  
  Cons:
  -Graphics aren't clear, sometimes interrupt with gameplay
  -Dialogue=extremely cheesy
  -Controls 
 take some time to get acclimated to
  -Not much different in the regular version from ther others in regards of gameplay
  
  Buy or 
 Rent?
  
  Well, you have to buy this game, because you can't rent DS games (at least I don't think you can) . 
 However, if there is a place where you can rent this game, that is recommended, or you should borrow 
 it from a friend. Unless you are a die-hard fan of the Resident Evil series, you aren't recommended 
 to buy this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: CastlevaniaFan
Rating: 9.1
Date: Aug 25, 2006 9:45 am PT
Review:  Being a fan of the original Resident evil's, I was quite disappointed by the new Resident evil 
 4. Not having a playstation, I stumbled upon Resident Evil on my dreamcast and missed out on all 
 of the Outbreak games. (though I have played them) I was just crying for a good Resident evil I 
 can buy, and I found it- even better, for the portable DS!
  I played classic mode first, and it was a great update of the game that started it all. The graphics 
 were awesome, the sound was clear, and it was just as cool as when the first came out in 1998. 
 This was great and all, but I felt alittle disappointed as if that was all there was to it. Looking 
 to unlock some more characters for multi-play, I started up rebirth mode just for the hell of it 
 (to be truthful, i wasn't too excited about it from what little the reviews said about it) Then 
 this game became GREAT!!
  Rebirth mode is a remade version of the classic game, adding and using the DS's features innovatively! 
 First person knife fights using the touch screen, solving new puzzles, and even reviving a fallen 
 team member. (That part is awesome, give the guy too much air and his body starts exploding :D) 
 And not only that, it carries the story mode farther and makes it scary as hell! Having said all 
 of this though, it is highly reccomended that you have played the original playstation game first 
 or play classic mode first before trying rebirth, as it is obviously aimed at veteran players and 
 messes with their heads.
  Now on to the multiplayer, here the game starts looking more like the Outbreak series. You and 
 4 other players can team up or knuckle up in multi co-op or versus. The characters you unlock throughout 
 the game are only usable in this mode, but just like outbreak- they all have their own special 
 traits.
  Jill= big inventory
  Chris= accurate with handguns
  Barry= .357 magnum
  and so on and so forth...
  I noticed in many reviews, people were complaining about how there 
 are only 3 levels and you can't see the other players' characters- only colored stars. But to me, 
 I didn't have too much of a problem with this- multi in resident evil has only been seen in outbreak. 
 And for the lack of levels, what are they supposed to do? There are only two other levels than 
 the ones they have, garden and underground. Underground would be a good level, but it is too small- 
 and the garden is small as well. They could combine these levels, but that would undoubtably kill 
 framerate terribly and violently. So through and throughout, I highly reccomend to anyone reading 
 this to buy this game if they are considering it- and to reccomend it to all of their DS owning 
 friends. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: PelekotansDream
Rating: 7.5
Date: Aug 21, 2006 9:55 am PT
Review:  Resident EVil DS is a remake of Resident Evil which was on the SEGA Saturn and PlayStation 1.
 
  The plot goes like this: In the American city of Racoon city there have been strange killings 
 in the surrounding forests. Victims were eaten, to investigate this matter S. T. A. R. S (Special Tactics 
 And Rescue Service) Bravo team go to investigate the surrounding forests, contact with them is 
 lost and the rest of S. T. A. R. S, the Alpha team go to investigate why contact with Bravo team has 
 been lost. Shortly after arriving in the forest Alpha team is forced into a mansion where their 
 goal changes to fighting for survival, your aim is to survive and escape. The plot never gets complicated 
 but there will be some good twists but the ending leaves you wanting to know more simply because 
 the ending is very short and poor.
  Gameplay is basic, very simple, the backgrounds are pre rendered and all characters models and 
 enemies are fully 3D, the game is very gory and when you are not killing enemies you are spending 
 time finding items and putting them in the right place. Top screen displays the map while the bottom 
 shows you all the 3rd person action. Amazingly this game can scare you even if it is on a tiny 
 screen.
  The settings are really nice, you have a spooky mansion, the courtyard, a guard house and there 
 is some more but I won't spoil the fun.
  There are two modes of playing single player and another two for those playing with more than one 
 person. For single player there is classic mode which is not the exact same as the original version 
 (There are a few little changes, more on that a bit later) and there is rebirth mode which includes 
 1st person action sequences where you use the touch screen to slash at enemies and there are new 
 puzzles which involve using the touch screen and microphone and a couple of new bits to unlock. 
 For playing with more than one person you have a mode where you co-operate with other people to 
 survive the horror and another to compete against each other, other players are represented by 
 stars on screen, you never really see your team members in their true form sadly so it kinda makes 
 the experience a bit less realistic.
  Now what about sound? Well it is crisp and clear, the soundtrack is remixed in a few places and 
 a few new lines of dialogue have been recording but this new dialogue does not add more depth to 
 the storyline because it is only lines like "What the?" The dialogue is pretty bad though, the 
 slight pauses between lines have been shortened to improve the dialogue. Also some sound effects 
 could have been a bit better, all of the sound effects are clear but... at some parts a different 
 sound effect would have been better.
  The game is short, but there are 2 playable characters, unlockables and two modes of play and for 
 multiplayer there is a good amount of fun to be had.
  But how does this compare to the original Resident Evil game? Well before I compare them I made 
 sure I played the PS1 version of the game again so I know what I am talking about. The pre rendered 
 graphics on the DS are slightly worse, now the new backgrounds made for the 1st person aspect of 
 the game prove the DS could handle such graphics, my guess for why most backgrounds are of a lower 
 quality on the DS is because like an image when you shrink it and make it tiny it loses some of 
 its sharpness as everything is being squashed together. A few pre rendered backgrounds from the 
 PS1 Directors cut version are in the game and the pauses between lines of dialogue have been shortned 
 a bit. 3D models are also slightly lower quality in some places but in some places they are better. 
 The "classic mode" of gameplay is not the exact same as the PS1 version, your handgun looks different, 
 your combat knife can no longer be put away in an item box and does not take up inventory space, 
 your inventory menu looks different and there are a few more minor changes also.
  This is a great game, if you have been dying for a gory, voilent game on the DS you will like this, 
 the dialogue is very poorly acted but hilarious and the graphics are good but the new pre rendered 
 backgrounds prove it could be better. Classic gameplay, and still addictive makes this not a bad 
 choice to your collection, problem is that it is a bit short. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sgately869
Rating: 5
Date: Aug 18, 2006 2:52 am PT
Review:  After the excellent remake for the gamecube, capcom had given me a breath of fresh air where resident 
 evil is concerned. After releasing it on the ds, I wasn't as pleased. When I went to buy the game, 
 my first reactions were at the price. 30 (don't know what it is for dollars but i'm sure you know 
 the price yourself) for a remake thats been done twice!? I couldn't believe what I ws seeing. Even 
 so I reluctantly decided to take a chance and buy it. When I loaded up the game, everything went 
 downhill from there. I was looking forward to an improved opening scene, much like the opening 
 to metroid prime hunters. Instead I had to relive the true nightmare of the horrible acting sequence 
 of the original. Finally it was time to enter the mansion. Thats when my worst fears were confirmed. 
 The horrible voice acting of the original was back. I was disgusted. Back on the PS1 era we all 
 had a good laugh at it. Even now I find it funny. But when its brought into a remake when its an 
 obvious falt that could've easily been fixed, I stopped laughing. Forgetting about that, I've heard 
 many people say about how good the graphics are, well I've got news for you..... they're not as 
 good as you think. Many people say its as good as the PS1's graphics. Well yes that may be true 
 but the DS easily outdoes the PS1's graphics. Mario Kart Metroid Prime Hunters are fine examples 
 of what i'm talking about. In reality, the graphics are average. Moving on, we all expected the 
 controls to be bad, especially since it's on the ds, so I can easily accept this and did not judge 
 the game on this. What I really didn't like was the rushed multiplayer aspect of the game. I had 
 heard great things about it but in reality it is sickening. Instead of seeing other players, you 
 see little pointers/arrows. What fun is that? No fun at all. However despite all this the game 
 does have some good qualities. For example, sometimes your put in positions where you have to slash 
 zombies with the touch screen. There are also little puzzles to be done using the same method. 
 However these could be just to mask up what is essentially an uncalled for remake which has had 
 all the scary moments stripped away by being brought to a handheld. In my eyes, this game would've 
 been better on the PSP and no i'm not in favour of sony as I have both consoles. Those who wish 
 to play the original, leave this alone and buy the gamecube version. Those who are not satisfied 
 with the gamecube version, I suggest renting it first. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: X-7
Rating: 9.1
Date: Aug 13, 2006 2:01 pm PT
Review:  Resident Evil Deadly Silence is an awesome game. The singleplayer gives you two playable characters 
 to use who are very different. There are also alot of unlockables. You can get a infinite rocket 
 launcher if you beat the gam in under 3hrs. RE: DS includes classic and rebirth modes. Rebirth is 
 a more action intensive version of the game.
  
  Gameplay: The controls are a little clunky at first but you will get used to it. You stand still 
 while using a weapon. The gameplay is really fun.
  
  Graphics: The graphics for this game are impressive. The blood is fake though. The environments 
 are pre-rendered and the enemies and player look great. 7.8 / 10
  
  Sound: The voice acting is so horrible that you love it and you have to hear it over and over again. 
 The sound is unfortunately bland overall. 6.9 / 10
  
  Value: With two characters and two modes not to mention the ammount of unlockables this game is 
 a great value. 9.5 / 10
  
  This is one of my favorite games for the DS and I give it my highest recommendations. 
  
  OVERALL: 
 9.1 / 10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sw0rDMaN
Rating: 8
Date: Aug 13, 2006 9:38 am PT
Review:  When i saw this game, i was very skeptic about it. I could'nt think of a portable Resident Evil 
 game being good. But after playing it, I realised that i was wrong.
  
  This game is an excellent Port from its Original game on The PS1.
  And even more there is a new 
 Rebirth mode to play which adds new stuffs that wasn't in the original one.
  
  The Graphics look very good on the DS, The sounds effects are pretty decent and the gameplay is 
 actually very good when you get the hang out of the controls whichs takes about 10-15 mins to Master 
 them. And the Game makes good use of the Stylet..
  
  Overall , Resident Evil: DS is a very good game for the Ds and i recommend it to anyone looking 
 for a good Horror/Adventure game.
  
  Hopefully Capcom will now give us Resident Evil 2 on DS 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Heathcliff
Rating: 7.9
Date: Aug 12, 2006 12:13 pm PT
Review:  It's always great to see console classics show up on handhelds. And this DS version of Resident 
 Evil is a good translation of the Playstation classic. On its own and as a console game, the game's 
 visuals and gameplay are both outdated. But its visuals are forgiven on DS, which is comparable 
 to an N64. The classic RE gameplay remains unchanged on the DS.
  
  Deadly Silence's single player game consists of two modes: Classic (the original game) and Rebirth. 
 Rebirth is basically the original game with added touch-screen functionality. At designated areas 
 in the game, the camera goes into a fixed first-person view and you can then use the stylus to 
 guide the motions of your combat knife and defend yourself from oncoming zombies and other monsters. 
 For me, these stylus/knife fights are the best part of the game. You can slash vertically, horizontally, 
 diagonally and make stabbing motions all with the stylus. There's a bit of strategy involved since 
 you have to time your knifing motions to coincide with the monster attacks. It's immensely satisfying. 
 The stylus is also used in several puzzles throughout Rebirth mode. Some are tedious, and some 
 are fun. In addition, you can use the stylus to get zombies off of you when they manage to grab 
 you. Tapping at them with the stylus makes your character get them off by punching them. But Touch-screen 
 functionality is not all Rebirth mode offers. The DS microphone comes into play in some parts of 
 the game when your character has to give mouth-to-mouth resucitation to a fallen partner.
  
  It's become tradition of RE games to include a mini-game that's unlocked when you beat the 
 main game. In this case, it's Master of Knifing. It's basically all the first-person knife-fights 
 of the main game put together in sequence, but with a few more monsters. At the end, you're ranked 
 depending on how well you did with the knife. The game also has multiplayer modes, in both co-op 
 and competition, which are pretty fun.
  
  Now that the series has evolved with Resident Evil 4, it might be hard for some to go back to the 
 old style of RE. But the game is still satisfying for those willing to go back, and the DS-specific 
 features make it all more worth while. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Necroneko4life
Rating: 4.4
Date: Aug 11, 2006 8:58 pm PT
Review:  Hate to say this, but i've done this before, why would i want to do it again.
  It may be good if your just starting the series, but for people like me who played the original 
 and the remake, this doesn't really bring alot to the table.
  
  The traps are still scary...... if you never played the others, and the gameplay isn't too bad, 
 the graphics are a little good, considering it is on the ds, and the enemies are still fun 2 kill. 
 but, for a game called "deadly silence" there sure are alot of moans and noises...........
  
  This game almost lived up to the original, and didn't come close to the remake, the only thing 
 it lived up to was the ps graphics and the voice acting......
  
  If your a die-hard re fan, or missed the first and can't get the remake, than get this, it just 
 didn't live up to my expectations........ 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Buffy-fly
Rating: 7.8
Date: Aug 10, 2006 10:15 am PT
Review:  My Brother got this game the game it came out where i got Animal Crossing instead. 
  I did like resident evil DS but it was just the same as the Play station 1 game.
  I kinda thought 
 it would be like the game cube Graphics but i was wrong.
  The graphic's were quite blocky and a bit out of date.
  I was glad to see a rebirth mode which 
 has a few different things.
  Overall i say but it for about 19.99 but the muiti player mode will make up for it. I'd just wish 
 they would have added more to it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dragon_king64
Rating: 9.6
Date: Jul 27, 2006 10:54 pm PT
Review:  Story: It's basically the same storyline from the first Resident Evil game. If you haven't played 
 the first Resident Evil, then here's the story: For years a secluded mansion and its grounds have 
 been the site of top-secret biotechnic experiments. The research staff has been funded by a respected 
 (if slightly unethical) corporation named Umbrella. The weekly laboratory reports have been increasingly 
 vague and now they have stopped completely. Recent gory attacks near the mansion have lead to rumors 
 of unnatural canines on the prowl. Something has gone terribly wrong. Two S. T. A. R. S. teams (Special 
 Tactics and Rescue Squad) are sent to investigate these strange and gruesome developments. Bravo 
 Team mobilizes first and disappears almost immediately. Alpha Team follows, urgently driven towards 
 the mansion. As either Chris Redfield or Jill Valentine, two valuable parts of the Alpha team, 
 you work your way inside. Everything is quiet... too quiet. In my opinion, this is like one of 
 the best stroylines for a horror game ever made.
  
  Gameplay: In this game you play as one of two S. T. A. R. S. (Special Tactics and Rescue Squad) members, 
 either Chris Redfield or Jill Valentine. Both having their own special abilities. Like for Chris, 
 he excels in weapons handling and he can pull off some amazing gun wielding feats if caught surrounded 
 by enemies. As for Jill, she has a large item capacity (unlike Chris) and she can also lockpick 
 certain doors which is pretty nifty. Well anyways, there are 2 main single player modes to play, 
 the first is Classic mode which is has the same game as the Original Resident Evil on Playstation. 
 The premise of the gameplay is you have to survive through the night of this mad house, uh, I mean 
 mansion. You'll have to fight through an array of scary ass mutations such as zombies, zombie dogs, 
 giant spiders, and many more. To fight off these creatures of the night, you'll find a nice arsenal 
 of weapons such as a handgun and combat knife (both which you start out with) , shotgun, flamethrower, 
 .357 Magnum and many more. Don't get your leg caught by a zombie, if that happends than you can 
 simply kick it's head off with a couple taps of a button. It amuses me so. If you get damaged there 
 is a nice healing herb and first aid spray to help you with your medical needs. Very useful. There 
 is also a nice venue of bosses just dying to meet you like a giant spider code named: The Black 
 Tiger. This boss still gives me the creeps. Along with just busting a cap in a zombies head, you 
 also have to solve some puzzles. They're all pretty simple accept for this one that has to do with 
 wires, yeesh! Ok, now for the other mode which is called Rebirth mode. Rebirth mode is somewhat 
 the same as classic mode accept they added more zombies and you get to use the DS features. Those 
 DS features include the new 1st person knife battle mode where you can use a stylus to slash zombies 
 on the bottom screen which is pretty fun and addicting. With that said their is also a knifing 
 minigame called Master of Knifing that you can unlock by beating the game the first time on classic 
 or rebirth mode which is pretty tight. Another DS feature is using the stylus to solve puzzles 
 on the bottom screen which is pretty fun and another feature is using the microphone which you 
 blow into and it's used for at least one puzzle that has candles and the other is for recessitating 
 your friend Richard, who is dying from a fatal snake bite. Opps, I said to much. Now for the best 
 DS feature of them all and a first in any Resident Evil game is Multiplayer mode. It's Wireless 
 DS Multi-card Play which is freakin' awesome. There are 3 different stages to play which include 
 the Mansion, the Guardhouse, and the Laboratory. My personal favorite is the Guardhouse. There 
 are 9 characters total to play with but you only start out with Jill and Chris, but you must unlock 
 the other 7 . Well, anyways the multiplayer modes include a Versus and Co-op mode. For Versus, 
 the objective is to compete for the fastest escape time or highest score based on enemies defeated. 
 Their are some weird but cool little gameplay quirks to it such as when you kill a certain colored 
 enemy, it will affect your opponents somehow like for example if you kill a purple enemy, then 
 your opponents will be able to run. It's crazy. The versus mode is both fun and challenging but 
 I still prefer Co-op anyday. Ok, now for Co-op, you guys just work together to escape the place 
 you chose (ex: The Mansion) before time runs out. The gameplay quirks in this one is you and your 
 allies share the same life bar so a good way for everybody to survive is teamwork. Another quirk 
 is when everyone is in the same room, you get an attack bonus, which is pretty cool. I forgot to 
 mention that at the end of each multiplayer mode that you must fight a boss before exiting. You 
 didn't think you were gonna get off that easy, did you? Co-op is definetly fun against the boss 
 because your friends got your back.
  
  Graphics: As far as graphics go in this game, it's pretty similar to the Playstation version and 
 as far as 3-D games go on the DS this definetly one of the best looking in my opinion. Though the 
 live action intro at the beginning looks just plain funny to me. The levels look great like The 
 Mansion for instance when you go into the bathroom and you can see your self in the mirror . Now 
 that is great detailing. I also like when you open a door and you can see it open and it's dark, 
 it gives it a nice eerie feeling. The characters and the monsters look awesome especially in first 
 person where you get to see the zombies up close, there creepy. From the gun smoke of firing your 
 gun to the bloody splatter of a zombie's head after a decap from your gun is pure eye candy.
  
  Sound: This game has some of the best video game music ever made. It's creepy and ambient at 
 the same time. The music is a treat for the ears. My favorite tune is where you find a room with 
 a typewriter in it and it's all abandoned and it starts playing this calmly soothing but eerie 
 music which is just plain weird because your in a horror game and it's playing peaceful music. 
 I still like it though. I own the soundtrack for this game, so yeah, that tells you how good it 
 is. From the groans of the zombie to the zombie munching on human flesh is just a treat for the 
 ears. Also, hearing the gunshot of your weapon sounds so authentic it almost sounds like a real 
 gun. The voice acting in this game is so bad it's funny. The dialogue and the way it's presented 
 at times is just plain hillarious. Like for example, the very famous line by Barry Burton, his 
 most famous bad line is the legendary "You were almost a 'Jill Sandwich!'" line, just comedic gold 
 right there.
  
  Replay Value: This game is definetly replayable anyday of the week. It's a very good game for a 
 long roadtrip. Both the single player and the multiplayer will definetly keep you coming back for 
 more. Whether it be just to play some multiplayer co-op with some friends or to replay the single 
 player game all over again. Even if you beaten it a million times, chances are you'll still come 
 back for more. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: chanester
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jul 25, 2006 2:41 pm PT
Review:  Surprisingly, this game is good. when I picked up my new ds lite, this was the first game I picked 
 up. Slow at first, but once you get used to the new ds platform, it's good. For all of you gamers 
 out there that love the gory action games, this is for you, plus, if you're a puzzle lover, this 
 game has a lot to do with solving puzzles. When you start your game, you can choose between who 
 you want to be, and either the classic mode, which is from the original version for the PS1, or 
 rebirth mode. Which is the newer game, which consists of more puzzles and zombies. Overall, this 
 is a good game. I can't say it's a must buy, but if you're a fan of the series, and you own a ds, 
 I think you should check it out. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: wmg1299
Rating: 7.3
Date: Jul 24, 2006 3:27 pm PT
Review:  Resident Evil DS captures everything that made the series famous when it was released in the late 
 1990s. Unfortunately, the few gameplay additions made for the DS touch screen could not breath 
 new life into the classic title.
  Both the graphics and controls are virtually identical to the PS1 version of the game. Neither 
 of these aspects have ever been seen as a strong point of the title. The control system will frustrate 
 and anger gamers whose first experience with the series was RE4. Players who never experienced 
 an early Resident Evil, Tomb Raider, or Onimusha title may have a very difficult time adjusting 
 to the control system.
  Resident Evil was never a very graphically detailed game, and may actually look worse on the DS. 
 The sound is possibly a little better than the original, but the voice acting is just as bad.
 
  The touch screen is used for short bursts of close-quarter knife combat and puzzle solving. These 
 segments of the game are fairly well designed, but players can tell that they were not originally 
 intended to be part of the game.
  What the title keeps is the original cheese. The voice acting is downright horrible, and the wardrobes 
 are laughable. This is actually a good thing. Gamers who were initially awed by the dark atmosphere 
 and shocked by the plot twists can look back and appreciate how far games have come. Its like 
 a 30 year old watching a cartoon/anime that was state of the art when he was 6 or 7. The person 
 would still like the show, but would have to admit that it is now kind of campy and just cant 
 technically hold up to current competition.
  Fans of the series would do well to experience the game that started it all. However, Im not sure 
 the experience is worth $39.99. I loved this game when it was released in the 90s, and really 
 wanted to love it this time around. This is without a doubt a legendary title, but it feels out 
 of place in my current game library.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Jera372
Rating: 6.6
Date: Jul 15, 2006 3:47 pm PT
Review:  I was very ticked off about the total game play of RE DS. Playing this on the original DS... not 
 the DS Lite is poor. It is too dark and you have to have the stylus in your hands when you are 
 playing. I don't like this game at all.. trust me I am a huge RE Fan. Nintendo needs to make major 
 changes on this video game all around. I do not recommend anyone purchase this game. Rent it yes.. buy 
 it no. Take your time to learn the buttons (controls) and play this game some place bright!! Be 
 sure to conserve your ammo and take your time in memorizing the map. Trust me when I say you are 
 better off letting the Zombies get you then purchase this. I learned the hard way. I learn this. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: madmattx92
Rating: 7.9
Date: Jul 15, 2006 10:25 am PT
Review:  Lets start with the gameplay. It has very fun and immersive gameplay much like the other Resident 
 Evil games. It keeps you on the edge of your seat for the whole game. You start to think you are 
 doing well for example I have 20 pistol rounds left that should last me a while and then you run 
 into a room full of zombies and you run out of bullets. It can be very erie at times as well. It 
 is a must have for any Resident Evil fans.
  
  Now lets go to the graphics. The graphics in this game were decent but they are very watered down 
 if you have played any other versions of the game. But if you consider you are playing the game 
 on a portable console they are good.
  
  The sound in this game is very funny it still has all of the original voice overs and cut scenes 
 which makes it sound very corny but it is good.
  
  I recommendthis game to any one who is a fan of the original Resident Evil Games or someone who 
 wants to play Resident Evil and is going on a trip. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Rated_R_Gamer
Rating: 8
Date: Jul 10, 2006 8:10 pm PT
Review:  Goning into this review we all know that Resident Evil Deadly Silence has very large shoe's to 
 fill. If you are reading this review then you already know exactly what I mean. And you know whay 
 the origonal was in many people's opinion the greatest survival horror game of all time.
  
  Getting right in there I feel confadint in giving this game a solid 8.0 score. Knowing that its 
 like what? The 3rd or 4th remake of the origonal back in 1996? SO we all understand a game this 
 whored out wont get the best skills, but lets get into it.
  
  Gamplay- Very good gameplay with those controls that turn many gammers away from it. The player 
 controls there in game character much like a tank. So that really doesnt leave much fun. After 
 a quick half hour like this though any solid gammer will have adapt to it and been able to move 
 on. 
  
  Graphics- Very good for a DS game. It sticks to the same capabilities of the PlayStation 1. So 
 thats how good they can get. Those graphics really help immerse the player in the game, and those 
 cut scenes where your in the eyes of the enemy are some of the creepiest things you can find in 
 anygame. Capcom did a good job with mixing in the PS to the DS.
  
  Sound-Almost every Resident Evil game except RE4 has had some of the worst voice acting you have 
 ever heard, along with the originals terriable real people cut scenes, this is no exception. The 
 voice work in this game was done with little or no effort. Some ppl have argued over the years 
 that dialog like this was used to make RE seem like a B-Grade horror movie. Its all in opinion 
 I say.
  
  Value- I only rented this game and must say it is not worth over $30.00 price tag. The game is 
 short and very little replay value is offered once all 4 storylines are beaten. (very little difference 
 between storyline's except for characters, endings and some extra stuff using DS fetures) 
  
  Reviewer's Tilt- I Love Resident Evil games (except Outbrake File 1 and 2) so I have to tilt 
 this towards a buy, but knowing that not all are like me and some dont like the controls at all, 
 I must say rent. BUT if you rent it get it for at least a week so then you will have time to fully 
 immerse yourself in the game. FOr those who find themselves in love with this game, I reccomend 
 buying Resident Evil for the gamecube. Much better remake an deffanitly worthy of a purchase.
 
  
  Final Note: Good solid horror game. Deffanit buy for RE enthusiasts, but I reccomd a rental for 
 at least one week for everyone else. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: CoChOn-DiNdE
Rating: 7.2
Date: Jul 4, 2006 7:28 pm PT
Review:  There is no one who fears nothing. For that, a good part of people are afraid of this. Even me. 
 *Ahem* All right, let me start this.
  
  First of all, I started RE on last year. I wasn't much interested into Resident Evil until I got 
 REALLY addicted to Resident Evil maps on Starcraft. Then we traded for one of my brother's friend 
 on NGC. We played it. We were like... really scared at the start, eventually we got "used" to it. 
 You never knew if something would strike into the window or make strange, creepy noises. You also 
 had to save on bullets and recovery. Then on and on. Next I played Resident Evil 0; never finished. 
 I could never do it within the time I rented it for. After a few months, we tried 4. My brother 
 liked it, but somehow... I didn't.
  A week ago, I was looking for DS games to go with my Lite. I thought... hmmm... Resident Evil DS 
 and Sonic Rush! I DID GET THEM! I started playing... I had NO idea of what to do, but I just played 
 anyway.
  
  --Gameplay --
  This is what does the whole difference. The gameplay on most Resident Evil is... like... unique. 
 The gameplay controls have been a bit damaged because of the graphics, but not THAT much. You start 
 with either Chris Redfield or Jill Valentine. Anyone you pick, you'll receive a Handgun before 
 REALLY getting into fights with zombies. The thing I hate in this games is the supplies; which 
 are quite limited. Some may say "This is ez", but those that are smart enough to play other than 
 Resident Evil or not playing only ONE kind of a game, or anything I don't know, won't find it so 
 ez. As I was saying, because the ammo is limited, you must choose what to just try to avoid to 
 attack and what to kill. This isn't much of a problem at the start of Rebirth Mode... but on the 
 end of both modes, it REALLY tends to be hard to save ammo. Even sometimes, you have no idea if 
 you just wasted ammo. And as for the Ink Ribbons... about 1/3 of them are placed where you are 
 VERY far away from a typewriter. I mean, WTH. Anyway, your health in this game is oftenly balanced, 
 although you must be prepared for serious mauling sometimes.... or even having a Hunter, thinking 
 (since you only fought 2-4 of them and killed them quickly) unexpectedly jumping on you, killing 
 you, without having recovery items. Ah, yes. Rebirth mode is the thing that helps REDS' gameplay 
 score go up. The enigma's are great and not too complicated. And my favorite thing: the FPS knife. 
 I love it when it happens; it gives life to a survival knife and gives a better feel of... y'know, 
 struggling to kill things. It isn't too hard, but sometimes a bit too easy. Plus, it sometimes 
 gives (I have never gotten anything else than what I say) 3 handgun or magnum bullets or a green 
 herb. Cool. It preserved the classic NGC RE gameplay.
  
  --Graphics --
  Ok, maybe the DS isn't the best graphics there is and that the NGC is much more capable in visual 
 stuff, but honestly... the environement seemed TOO fake. Not necessairly the pixels, but the places 
 man... TOO MUCH LIGHT! The graphics weren't dark enough to enhance the horror. The movie cutscenes 
 were good though.
  
  --Sound --
  The sound isn't significant in most games, but this is an exception. Maybe not. I mean, both of 
 the points. Yes and no. Sometimes the music was just not scary at all (Like when Jill runs back 
 to Barry at the beginning of the game) ... a good thing is that it isn't always like that. Calm 
 music makes us more paranoid; we will be more surprise if we get surprised.
  
  After all, I haven't finished this yet. Although the game isn't so bad, it lacks of the main element 
 of Resident Evil: fear. It isn't FULLY non-scary. Anyone knows that part in the library (which 
 you get to through the mansion elevator) ? That "thing" that was in black that popped out in front 
 of me make me freak out. Like, "WHOA! WHERE DO YOU COME FROM?". This game isn't bad.
  
  My recommendation: If you'd like to try it, if possible borrow from a friend. If not, just buy 
 it. The chances that you'll like it are high enough if you liked Resident Evil on NGC. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: fjgamer
Rating: 8.8
Date: Jun 29, 2006 11:30 pm PT
Review:  I didn't know what to expect when I bought Resident Evil for the DS. It was previously released 
 on the PlayStation, and really isn't different from that version. With some few differences, the 
 game is really kind of the same thing as the original. However, it's still a fun game to play, 
 but it's mostly reccomended to people who never played the original. However, it's still cool to 
 play Resident Evil anywhere you go.
  
  This game places you in a mansion, where you have to explore, fight zombies, solve puzzles, and 
 find the occasional key. The puzzles are pretty simple, and use common sense to solve. Everything 
 in the game is limited, including the total number of saves (almost 40 as Jill, and around 20 as 
 Chris) , ammo, and the amount of herbs. This really pushes you to try and use as little of everything 
 as possible, and really makes you act in a way you never could in a game. It gives the game suspense, 
 because sometimes you don't have all the ammo in the world, and need to dodge zombies in a room 
 until you have the ammo to fight them. The game is relatively short, with around a 5 hour span 
 the first time you play, and 2-3 (mostly) for every other time you play. If you never played the 
 original, you can get a lot of play time out of this little cartridge. Every time you play the 
 game it's still fun.
  
  Now, the differences between this version and the original isn't very different. It makes it different 
 by adding a couple of new minigames and puzzles. These incorporate the DS's unique functions, which 
 are pretty cool. Normally most game ports stray away from this, making this different from a raw 
 port. If you want to play the game just to play the remade version, you'll have a better time with 
 the Gamecube version. In the "Rebirth Mode," it uses the microphone and stylus to do things like 
 connect wires, use a scale, blow out candles, and more. There are a good couple of these in the 
 game, but there's a whole new part of the game. It involves using the knife and swiping at enemies 
 using the Stylus. This is actually some fun, but can do unnecesary damage to you if you don't know 
 exactly how to do it at first. This can kind of be annoying, but is still fun. The full 360 turn 
 and holding knife with the L button make a return, as well as the auto aim feature in the Director's 
 Edition. The final, and biggest difference, is that there are more enemies everywhere in the game. 
 It tries to be more like RE4 because you'll have to kill more with more ammo. It manages to be 
 a lot more forgiving if you waste a couple of shots.
  
  There are two things that you can select other then the single player. The first is a multiplayer 
 option in this game, which can be pretty fun. However, because you need multiple cartridges it's 
 hard to get a game set up. It's fun though, and worth a try if you have a buddy to play with. These 
 versions include a Co-op mode and a Versus mode. However, if you don't get a chance to play the 
 multiplayer it's not that much of a loss. The second is the Master of Knifing minigame after beating 
 the rebirth mode. This can be fun, especially since it's so short. It's the most challenge you'll 
 get out of the knifing minigame.
  
  The graphics in this game are practically the same. The character models, including enemies, have 
 all been improved with better animations. The models look better and brighter then in the original 
 version. However, the pre-rendered backrounds are all the same. They look a little grainy after 
 being ported to the DS, but they still look fine. Finally, all the full motion video from the original 
 version is still perfectly fine and intact. There are a couple of FMV (Full Motion Video) sequences 
 from the original too. The graphics for the DS version are a little better, and there are absolutely 
 no load times in the game. This game features some of the best graphics i've seen on this console 
 to date.
  
  The audio in this game is also completely intact. It's almost been completely untouched except 
 for a couple of short new lines said in the knifing minigame and some short phrases after being 
 selected in the multiplayer. The stereo system in the DS can tell you which direction a monster 
 is in, and is still useful for telling if a monster is in a room or not. So, for those that are 
 worried, Jill Sandwich is still in the game as well as the bad voice acting and others.
  
  The value for this game can varry. It's only a 30 dollar game, which is good for people that've 
 never played it before. However, if you've played EVERY Resident Evil game and are hungry for more 
 Resident Evil you might want to wait for a price drop. If you've never played it, you can get the 
 length of a console game and a little more from this game.
  
  I personally had a lot of fun with this game. It's a faithful port, and reminds you it's still 
 fun to play. If you haven't played the Playstation version since the 90's, you can find a lot of 
 fun in this game since you probably forgot how to do everything. The game still manages to scare 
 you through shock with several new monsters appearing in different rooms. This game is a good pickup 
 for anyone who wants to play the first game again and see what invented survival horror. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Rico_06
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 27, 2006 6:19 pm PT
Review:  This game was so good!!! I wasn't expecting anything like this and totally blew me off my seat! 
 I must say that the graphics were pretty good for a game brought back and the sounds were so funny 
 but good. The story made sense but still got a bit of questions?!?!?! I would reccomened this game 
 to people who are after one BIG adventure i never had much time to play so it took me a few weeks 
 since i only played 1 or 2 hours a week and yet i didn't get sick of it! After a while it grows 
 on you and the ink ribbons can get annoying but you end up getting heaps!! The save points were 
 done perfectly! The perfect time for playing and suspense! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Dannyboi68
Rating: 6.8
Date: Jun 26, 2006 10:49 am PT
Review:  Lets see a show of hands: who here hasn't already played the original Resident Evil four times 
 over and is dying for a chance to take it on the road in significantly less terrifying circumstances?
 
  
  Playing RE in the dark using a stylus on the tiny screens would probably make you go blind anyway, 
 and its hardly anymore frightening. 
  
  The new gameplay techniques are very handy (RE4's quick 180-degree turn around, easy gun reloading, 
 and easy access to your knife) , but the clunky controls and antiquated inventory system feel more 
 limiting than ever after RE4. 
  
  But in terms of the quality of the port, its all here: the cheesy voice acting, cinematic sequences, 
 pre-rendered backgrounds, 3D character models, and sluggish zombie shooting action. It's actually 
 pretty impressive though, for a portable title.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: blazewind191
Rating: 5.7
Date: Jun 22, 2006 7:42 pm PT
Review:  Resident Evil: Deadly Silence is basically a remake of the first Resident Evil. Unlike REmake though, 
 the graphics havent improved other than the additional REBIRTH mode.
  
  RE: DS is overall very short if you played the first RE for PSone. However, there's the new REBIRTH 
 mode which takes advantage of the DS features. The voice acting is still bad as usual. The graphics 
 also look very grainy. The sound and gameplay haven't changed much either.
  
  Enough with the bad. The good parts of the game just pretty much uses the DS features. Such as 
 the touch screen, mic, and wifi. The multiplayer modes involves players with their own RE: DS games 
 and either cooperate or compete. The REBIRTH mode also changed a few things here and there to make 
 the game slightly different from its predecessor.
  
  Overall grainy with not much change, RE: DS is just another transfer of an old game to a modern 
 hand-held console. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: agile1
Rating: 6.8
Date: Jun 22, 2006 7:09 pm PT
Review:  Like above, this is no different from the PS resident evil, other than multi-card play and Rebirth 
 mode. Here is the Pros and Cons list
  
  Pros
  -Original, but for a smaller system
  -Additional features like Multi card play and Rebirth mode
  
  Cons
  - Short
  -Horrible 
 game play
  -Too easy to complete
  -Basic Multi card play (in other words... BORING)
  
  In my opinion, this game is a waste of your money, and you are better off getting a gamecube and 
 buying all of the resident evil games for it (Resident Evil, Resident Evil 2, Resident Evil 3, Resident 
 Evil 4, and Resident Evil Code Veronica) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Time_Echos
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 21, 2006 10:23 am PT
Review:  is great for getting a good scare and first timers it will leave a good impression on you leaving 
 you for more each time you finish playing and the fun never stops. And theres is so much to do 
 the whole game theres survival mode rebirth mode story mode and more and also has the whole cast 
 from the original resident evil. The knife mini game is so cool.
  And playing it on the ds lite will give it the extra push to give a better feel. multiplayer is 
 good also but no as much as you would think. I would give it a 6.3 just becouse it does fully make 
 up for it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gammagoat
Rating: 7
Date: Jun 18, 2006 12:11 pm PT
Review:  I thought that Resident Evil: Deadly Silence would be an improvement from the PSX original. It 
 wasn't. It has the same messed up speeches, which state the obvious too much. The gameplay isn't 
 any smoother. The major difference is the multiplayer function, and the "Rebirth Mode." Rebirth 
 mode increases the action, and uses the stylus to engage in first-person knife fights, but isn't 
 too different from the original mode, although some puzzles have been changed. Multiplayer is a 
 joke. Kill things to get points. That's it. You have to do certain things in single player mode 
 to unlock certain characters, though, which is kind of nice.
  
  Overall, don't spend $35.00 on this DS game, when you can pick up a used copy for the PSX for $5.00, 
 and get the same feeling. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: neon_tetra
Rating: 7.9
Date: Jun 17, 2006 10:07 pm PT
Review:  Being new to the Resident Evil series, I wasn't entirely sure whether or not this would be right 
 for me, as survival horror isn't for everyone. Being new, of course I have died 1000 times and 
 restarted a new game whenever all hope is lost, yet I still enjoy playing this PS classic.
  First thing to comment on is Graphics. They are pretty good for the DS, helping to maintain an 
 eerie atmosphere a game like this should have. I feel they could be better but bear in mind this 
 is just a port with a few new features thrown in. 
  The sound in the game is a bit blurry when it comes to the music. It's not bad! I don't mean it 
 in a bad way! I jumped at some bits so it goes hand in hand with the visuals to give the game the 
 effect it needs to creep people out. I absolutely love the voices!!!! HAHAHAHA! Gives light to 
 the horror that is happening.
  The game is full of puzzles and all kinds of riddles. Damn I found it hard! *ahem* as I was saying, 
 this mansion is no ordinary one! What kind of house has gems hiding in statues! It would have made 
 it so much easier if I knew where to find it! Made me angry, I was stuck for ages because of that!
 
  
  It's a cool game, I like it a lot! I really hope to see ports of the next two games in the series, 
 or a completely original Resident Evil DS game altogether!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: NCAA06_dude
Rating: 9.7
Date: Jun 17, 2006 9:37 am PT
Review:  Resident Evil may not look like the hottest DS game todady with all of its scores but it's number 
 1 on my list and thats probabbly because iv'e never played the original. In this game you choose 
 between Chris Redfeild or Jill Valentine. Tou travel thhrough a mansion and other places battling 
 T-Virus victums other known as "zombies". Resident Evil has a well developed story and some great 
 gameplay once you get used to the controls. This game also features two modes, Rebirth mode, a 
 mode that is different from the original with smarter zombies, 1st person knife battles, and other 
 DS features, like many touch screen puzzles, and DS mic activity. The other mode is Classic mode, 
 it's the exact same as the one you loved in the PS-1 era.
  
  Heres my review.
  
  GAMEPLAY: 10/10 the gameplay in this is phenomenal. The DS handles it very well and should take 
 on more 3-D adventures like this.
  
  GRAPHICS: 9/10 I don't know why many people say the graphics suck? they probably have only seen 
 the screens, but in motion this game truly is a pleasure to look at.
  
  SOUND: 8/10 I think the music and sound effects were great, but I guess the voice acting sort of 
 ruined it but i didnt have that much a problem with the voice acting.
  
  VALUE: 10/10 I know this sounds strange, but the value for a single player adventure game usually 
 isnt that great, but iv'e played this game 3-4 times in a row because of different modes and characters.
 
  
  Overall this game is a must- buy if you havent already played this, but if you have then you should 
 check it out from gamefly, just for the nostaglia andnew DS features in Rebirth Mode. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bettsy1987
Rating: 7.9
Date: Jun 16, 2006 5:58 pm PT
Review:  Well i bought this game for a great 19.99 at my local Gamestation. I was looking for an action 
 packed adventure that would really show off what the DS can do. 
  
  The gameplay in this game is what has become the standard for the genre, a mix of exploration, 
 shooting and puzzle solving the game, and is genuinely fun for a while. The controls feel extremly 
 clunky at first but i adapted to this control system within an hour and was soon extremely comfortable 
 with them. The main game itself is challenging thanks to many things such as the scarcity of ammo, 
 limited save system and limited inventory space, the latter leading to a lot of backtracking in 
 places.
  
  The games main game can be played in either a classic mode or a rebirth mode. I would recommend 
 playing the game in rebirth mode as it brings many new elements to the core game play such as knife 
 battles which really are a fantastic addition and a great use of the DS's abilities. There are 
 also two characters to choose from. Chris offers a more combat orientated character but has limited 
 inventory space and cannot pick locks while Jill can pick locks but is generally weaker. It is 
 advisable to use Jill as your character during your first play thought this game.
  
  The graphics are good for a hand held but still look grainy. The cinematic camera angles help to 
 make encounters more exciting and help to pick out some of the lovely prerended details. Character 
 models and enemies look good with suitable amounts of gore. It really is amazing to think all of 
 this can be stored on a tiny DS card these days.
  
  The audio is also very good. The music has always been brilliant and the music here sets the atmosphere 
 brilliantly giving a feeling of imminent evil and foreboding. The character voices are okay but 
 there dialogue is pretty terrible, however, Capcom had very little room to change the dialogue. 
 
  
  The story in Resident Evil is your standard horror sort. You are attacked by the undead who force 
 you to take refuge in an old mansion. There are a few plot twists here and there but the story 
 is pretty basic and only really exists to give you a reason to kill more zombies. The story does 
 get better in future installments of Resident Evil though and it is nice that they built on the 
 story in future games. 
  
  Resident Evil also has some brilliant replay value. There are many unlockables through out the 
 game as well a multiplayer mode which really adds to the games length. The main game took me 9 
 hours to complete and there are plenty of reasons to go back to it again and again, however, I 
 doubt I will for quite a while.
  
  Overall Resident Evil offers a good solid action game that made use of all the DS's unique abilities. 
 It has all of the gore, frights and action that make Resident Evil so much fun and the new features 
 help make the game feel fresh and exciting. Now al we need is a remake of 2 and 3. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Zweihanderhero
Rating: 7.8
Date: Jun 14, 2006 8:13 am PT
Review:  Its been years since I went back to the Spencer Mansion. While I do have pretty fond memories 
 of the mansion, time, as well all known, can make some things seem better than they really are. 
 Yeah, Ill admit, if I had to choose a definite Resident Evil game based on the first game, itd 
 be the Gamecube remake of the title but hey, considering that my second choice would be the DS 
 edition, its pretty good for a portable system.
  
  Deadly Silence takes us back to the Arklay mountains in 1998. Bravo Team is missing and the Alpha 
 Team, led by Albert Wesker, is sent in to investigate their disappearance. Yup, this isnt a remake 
 of Resident Evil, its a straight port. All the rooms, the story, the text files and items are 
 where youd expect them to be and if you can remember what goes where and who does what (like I 
 do) , youre gonna have a breeze playing through the game.
  
  I remember the original Resident Evil having an insane amount of difficulty. Ammo is hard to come 
 by, the enemies bite (or claw or chomp or whathaveyou) hard and health is rarely available. That 
 said, I didnt find the game to be hard at all this time around. With two main modes of play, Rebirth 
 and Original, the game gives players to experience it in all of its original glory or play the 
 enhanced DS exclusive Rebirth mode. The original mode seems easier than I previously remembered. 
 I dont know if I got better at gaming the last 10 years or if the difficulty has been toned down 
 but for those who havent played the original, jump straight into Rebirth mode.
  
  Rebirth mode features some exclusive touch screen puzzles and a new first person mini-game in which 
 you knife zombies and other monsters as they come at you. The puzzles arent that hard and strangely 
 enough, the box puzzles remind me of Onimusha for some reason. Its the mini-game that irritates 
 me though. Some areas of the game has the mini-game and its randomly activated. You may pass through 
 a room with no fuss one time and when you reenter you find that you need to knife your way to freedom. 
 To be honest, I enjoyed the first few times the mini-games happened. Then I got irritated by them. 
 The objective of the mini-game is to use the touch screen to slash the zombies. You can do combos 
 by chaining your slashes but thats all there is to it. It gets dull the 100th time you have to 
 do it. Since it randomly triggers in some rooms, there is no way to tell if its gonna happen. 
 Add the fact that Resident Evil is famous for its backtracking and youll encounter the mini-game 
 more times than youd like.
  
  Rebirth mode is more action oriented than the original game. Ammo is plentiful and so are the enemies. 
 Even health items are distributed liberally. While its fun to play through undeniably, the feel 
 of exploring a mansion with monsters lurking around every corner and you short on ammo is gone. 
 The tension is just not there. I remember in the original Resident Evil, I dreaded facing a hunter 
 due to the fact that shotgun shells are scarce in the game and those bad boys take a ton to kill. 
 Not so in Rebirth mode, by the time I made my way back to the Mansion from the Guesthouse, I had 
 nearly a hundred shells in my possession. I dont know why but I found that the crows in the game 
 are terribly overused. The bastards make an appearance a lot more in this game and with the shoddy 
 hit detection, youll likely be wasting a ton of ammo on these guys cause you cant see them or 
 you cant hit them.
  
  Some good things did make it into the cut though. Ammo reloading is not no longer tedious as you 
 can reload straight from the main game without going into menus. The 180 degree turn is also in 
 the game, making those about tactical retreats easier to do now. One thing that I missed most is 
 RE4s ability to use herbs without taking them. Here you need an inventory slot to first place 
 the herb in and then use it if need be. While Jill rarely has the problem of not having enough 
 space, playing as Chris is a major pain as I kept making repeated trips to the Safe rooms to clear 
 my stuff. Loading is immensely faster too and you can even skip the opening door animation now!
 
  
  Using the same prerendered graphics, the DS version of Resident Evil is certainly no slouch. Sharp 
 looking models (even nicer looking than the original in my opinion) and nicely done backgrounds 
 capture the feeling of the Spencer mansion nicely. True, the backgrounds are all the same as the 
 original RE and therein lies an issue. The camera angles in some rooms completely suck. If you 
 had problems with them in the original game, know that youre gonna have the same problems here. 
 Its a pain in the ass in Rebirth mode especially since now you cant really rely on memory to 
 tell you how many baddies there are in an area as some of the areas now have a ton more bad guys 
 and roms that were previously empty now have some surprises in store for you. The small screen 
 also makes some items harder to see as they blend in well with the background. I advise to play 
 this game in a dark area so you can see the environment perfectly!
  
  Other than that, everything is unchanged from the cheesy (so bad its good!) opening movie to the 
 hilariously bad lines (I hope it isnt Chris blood! or You were almost a Jill sandwich!) . How 
 Capcom managed to cram all the voices, music and FMV into a small cart is a mystery for the ages. 
 I dont know if its the DSs speakers or the compression technology Capcom used, by the voices 
 in the game seem tinny and muted, even with the volume set to the Max. Still there be subtitles 
 so there really isnt any big issue there.
  
  All in all, Resident Evil Deadly Silence is a great walk down memory lane. While Capcom didnt 
 fix all of its problems, at least some of the more irritating ones got the axe. Now if only theyll 
 do a port of RE2
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: AKKjuuji
Rating: 8
Date: Jun 12, 2006 12:42 pm PT
Review:  Resident Evil: Deadly Silence is a reselling of the original Resident Evil made for the DS in celebration 
 of the series' 10th anniversary, and it's great fun on the portable.
  
  I'm a big Resident Evil fan, and going back to play the original RE (which I had only played once 
 before, and it was a while ago) was great fun.
  
  The controls, commonly known as "the tank" do not bother me whatsoever, and I have never understood 
 people's issue with them. It doesn't seem intuitive, but it's not as bad (at least to me) as everyone 
 makes it seem like it is.
  
  The basic story, for those who aren't familiar with the game, is that the S. T. A. R. S. Alpha team 
 has gone in search of the Bravo team, whose helicopter went down in the Arklay mountains. When 
 searching for their teamates Alpha team is attacked by a zombie dog. They run and go into a large 
 mansion, which is a lab in which the T-virus is being experimented with, turning all its inhabitants 
 into zombies. You play as Jill Valentine or Chris Redfield in order to find a way out.
  
  There are four modes: Rebirth and Classic, and then the normal and hard versions of each. Rebirth 
 is far more fun, incorporating new puzzles and a first person knife mode which uses the stylus 
 to hack and slash your enemies.
  
  The entire black and white opening FMV is preserved here (though now with subtitles) , and all the 
 cheesy dialogue is funny as ever.
  
  And now on to the ratings that gamespot uses:
  
  Gameplay: With fixes to the original gameplay (the knife is always accesible with the L shoulder 
 button, and the button-D-pad turnaround ideas from RE4) it makes the game a lot more enjoyable. 
 Because the tank controls have never bothered me (though I dislike how slow the walk speed is, 
 though fortunately one can just run.) A huge problem is just how easy the bosses are, and in fact 
 several of the bosses don't even need to be fought (such as Neptune) , but fortunately the Hunters, 
 Zombie Dogs, and zombies make the rest of the game challenging enough to be worth it. The first 
 person knife mode is quite a bit of fun, though isn't implemented enough.
  
  Graphics: When it came out it had the best graphics of any DS game. Now it has been trumped by 
 the almighty Metroid Prime Hunters, but remains looking very good. The look and feel of original 
 Playstation version is perfectly preserved. Although the graphics look dated by today's console 
 standards it still manages to create a creepy atmosphere.
  
  Sound: From the moan of the zombies to the whistle of the wind to the eerie soundtrack, this game 
 sounds great. The moans of the zombies get somewhat repetitive, as well as all the other such noises 
 but overall it's not a problem (unless that sort of thing really bothers you) .
  
  Value: This game is not one that I found too much replay value in. Once I finished the rebirth 
 mode I found it too monotonous to go through all the same puzzles again, and take all that time 
 to do everything. I don't know if the multiplayer is fun, as none of my friends have bought the 
 game (a single-card play would have been a great addition) . But overall this is not a great game 
 for replay value (although the master of knifing is fairly fun) .
  
  Tilt: It's Resident Evil, my favorite series ever, so I'm a bit biased with the tilt. But it definitely 
 is a good game. I'd reccomend to any fans of the series or people who have never played the series 
 before and can get through a bit of repetition. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DS-man
Rating: 8.3
Date: Jun 5, 2006 2:26 pm PT
Review:  This is the best Resident Evil game with the survivle init, (RE4 is the best)
  
  GOOD- Good graphics, pretty scary for an handheld, puzzling, Re-birth mode is realy good with the 
 new puzzle system and knife jabbing
  
  BAD- Bad voice acting, DS could do better graphics, bad movment
  
  GAMEPLAY:
  The gameplay 
 is totaly like the original one for the PSOne, which i dont like, but for some weird reason i like 
 this, maybe cos it feels different, i dunno,
  but the controls are tight and takes getting used to, but once your in... Your IN
  
  GRAPHICS:
 
  Gotta admit the graphics are good, but they are blocky, i know for afact that the DS can do a 
 smoother graphic on there consol, never the less, its not 2D, its a good 3D one.
  
  SOUND:
  To be honnest with ya, i dont know if the voice acting is bad or good, its funny, which 
 makes it good, but the reason its funny cos its rubbish.... strange! O. o!, but the gackground noise 
 and sound effect are realy good
  
  WHY SHOULD I BUY THIS GAME?:
  Cos its a fine exsample of a horror survivle, and if you liked the orignal then there is'nt no 
 reason you should'nt like this. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Smoke0
Rating: 7.8
Date: Jun 5, 2006 1:20 pm PT
Review:  It is kinda strange why Capcom has released the first Resident Evil game on the DS. After all this 
 is the fourth time, Resident Evil 1 has been released (PSone, Directors cut PSone, Gamecube, and 
 now DS) , but that dosent mean the game is bad. Its a good game, even after 10 years. Yes the 
 game is 10 years old. The games story is still good, but many people allready know this story. 
 Its June 1998. After some bizarre murder cases in the mid-vesten town Raccoon City, the city decides 
 to send in the S. T. A. R. S. (Special Tactics and Resuce Squard) Bravo Team, but the city loses contact 
 with them, and then they send in S. T. A. R. S. Alpha Team to find them. They quickly find out that 
 something is wrong, as they are attacked by a zombie dog. The flee into a mansion, which by all 
 means wasent a smart move. The mansion is filled with zombies, and other monsters. Now you must 
 find a way out. You start by selecting one out of two characters. Jill Valentine, and Chris Redfield. 
 Jill is weak, and gets killed quickly, but she has a lockpick which enables her to unlock doors 
 with simple doors, and she can carry 8 items. Chris is strong, and can take mch damage, but he 
 has to use small keys in order to unlock simple locks, and can only carry 6 items. Then you select 
 the mode you want to play. Rebirth, or Classic. Classic is the same as the PSone version, and Rebirth 
 uses to Touch Screen to make new puzzles and moves (even through the new moves also are in classic 
 mode) . The new moves include quick turn, reload, and a new attack. Thew new attack is exucted by 
 pushing the pin up and down on the touch screen, when zombies takes a snap of you, which is very 
 helpfull. Then there are the new touch screen puzzles. Some envolves place the right stones in 
 the right holes, (one of my faviortes) , first aid, which requires you to blow air at the DS. Another 
 one of my faviortes include you placing your hand at a stone, and then hitting the small circles 
 that light up between your fingers. The most cool feature is the knife mini games. When you enter 
 a spefic room, the game switchs to first-person. You can see your knife, and you must kill your 
 enemys, by moving your pin across the touch screen. Its a nice new addtion, which makes the game 
 better. There is also mutilplayer now, but its not as good as it could have been. There are two 
 modes, which focuses on you escaping. In the first mode, you work agasint other players to reach 
 the goal, in the other mode, you work with the other players to reach the goal. A strange thing 
 is that you cant see other players. Insted they are replaced by stars, which is kinda strange. 
 Other then that, there isent anything new in the game. No new characters, no new locations, no 
 new story elements, which i think is dissapointing, compared to the Gamecube remake. Everyone who 
 has played the orginal game, may be a little disappointed. Another disappointment is that the gameplay 
 hasent been fixed. Its still good, but there are so many flaws, and things that makes the game 
 furstrating at times. The graphics is the same too. Only some high resultion on the characters, 
 and the characters now breath. The locations are still great, but they arent filled with as much 
 detail as you would like. There hasent been added any new monsters unfortunely, which may be a 
 disappointment. The sound is just as we remember it, good effects, ok music, and awfull voice acting. 
 When you hear the voice acting, you will laugh you butt off, cause its so bad. Its now a joke 
 that it may have some of the worst voice acting ever. The game is about 5-7 hours long for each 
 character, so thats at least 14 hours for completing the game with both characters. Plus two game 
 modes makes the game longer, so it should be at least 20 hours. Overall Resident Evil Deadly Silence, 
 is a good DS game. Its nice to see the old Resident Evil game again, even if its 10 years old. 
 Its nice to see the good old mansion. This is a great start for (which i hope) a series of Resident 
 Evil games on DS. It would be nice to see Resident Evil 2 coming to DS. But since we really cant 
 talk about big improvements, it leaves a feeling that there could have been done more for this 
 game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Kingofunrealuk
Rating: 6.5
Date: Jun 1, 2006 5:36 am PT
Review:  Resident Evil returns... again with a rather terrible name to boot. In its third rendition (technically 
 fourth if you include Resident Evil Directors Cut) , can it still deliver after all these years?
 
  
  For the three of you who have never played the original Resident Evil game, it takes place in a 
 wood on the outskirts of Racoon City in a mansion. The game opens with the original and now famous 
 FMV, which unfortunately doesn't look great on the lower DS screen; it's terribly compressed and 
 it has thick black borders all the way around it. However, this doesn't stop you from manically 
 laughing at how bad the acting is. Once you are chased to the mansion by a pack of crazed dogs, 
 you and your fellow members of the STAR's Bravo team go in search of your collogues on the Alpha 
 team. Who of course, have gone missing after their chopper crash landed in the wood; where is the 
 Alpha team? What has become of them? Well, thats the storyline to Resident Evil: Deadly Silence. 
 
  
  Although the original Resident Evil game is still in this game, there is now a "Rebirth" mode specifically 
 designed with the Nintendo DS in mind. Not only have the enemies been moved around and the difficulty 
 nudged up a notch, but now there are touch screen and microphone specific puzzles for you to enjoy. 
 
  
  There are also rather bad uses of the touch screen to begrudge however. The random knife battles 
 you encounter in the game put you in a first person perspective and you must use your trusty stylus 
 to kill off any enemies, usually in the form of zombies and crows. As fun as this may sound, its 
 very frustrating as the controls aren't responsive enough. You swipe the screen and nothing seems 
 to happen sometimes and you're forced to be either bitten to death or tap the screen in a psychotic 
 fashion to stab them to death. Oh the fun. 
  
  That being said the core game play of Resident Evil is quite fun. When you first start the game, 
 if you've never played an RE game before, you will die. You will die ALOT, believe me. Stick with 
 it, because its worth it. Although the game suffers from its infamous "Tank Controls", it has 
 some great combat where you must use everything at your disposal to kill of enemies. However, you 
 can't just go around saving every 5 minutes and using up all your ammo on one enemy. Bullets and 
 save ribbons are rationed and this is something you must get used to very quickly. The game also 
 has some rather inventive puzzles, some new and some from the original. They don't offer too much 
 of a challenge but you may be scratching your head for a while at first.
  
  For the first time, Resident Evil also has a multiplayer aspect. Although a slight let down, it 
 allows you and a friend to go around the mansion together or race against each other. The only 
 problem is, due to the lack of the DS's power or Capcom being lazy instead of seeing your friends 
 character model, you see a coloured arrow. This really looks daft, especially in the thick of things 
 when your team mate is killing one of the enemies and you just see it drop to the floor dead at 
 the hands of an arrow, without even being shot at.
  
  The graphics in this game are both fantastic and a let down. Although the character models look 
 great on such a small screen, probably better than the Playstation originals, due to it being on 
 a handheld it suffers from one major problem. Because you're not using a proper TV screen, using 
 dark lighting that we're used to in survival horrors just isn't possible. This means that the atmosphere 
 is seriously damaged and no amount of zombies screaming "Braaaaains!" is going to help with this. 
 Seriously, if the music in this game was replaced with Mario Kart music and all the zombies were 
 given masks to wear, it would be a different affair all together. Another downfall is of course 
 the screen size of the DS; although Capcom isn't to blame it really hinders the experience. Countless 
 times I couldn't see my enemies because my own character was stood in front of the camera. RE: 
 DS would have been better suited to a new camera angle to compensate for this, possibly a top down 
 view or a Resident Evil 4 behind the shoulder perspective which the fans were crying out for.
 
  
  The other major graphical concerns are the blocky blood effects and the lack of top screen use. 
 The blood doesn't really look all that great in either green or red and the DS could have definitely 
 done better. The top screen is only used to display a map; although handy it could have probably 
 been used in a better way. It also blinks different colours depending on how much health you have 
 left which can be slightly misguiding; many a time Ive thought I had only one hit till I was dead, 
 when in fact I could have taken a couple more.
  
  The best part of this game is by far the sound. This game has some of the worst dialogue Ive ever 
 heard and hearing it will make you laugh out loud a lot of the time. "After all Jill, you are the 
 master of unlocking" makes me laugh even to this day. All the dialogue has voice acting and sounds 
 great on the DS and Im surprised they fit it all on the cart. The music is midi-esk however; it 
 fits the mood of the halls of the mansion perfectly. One other great thing; because the DS has 
 virtual surround through its two speakers, when you hear an enemy and he's standing right behind 
 you, it really will sound like he's behind you, a fantastic addition to scare you senseless. 
 
  
  In short, Resident Evil: Deadly Silence does and doesn't deliver. The lack of atmosphere hinders 
 this game in many ways. If you've never played the original Resident Evil game, you should really 
 play RE-make on the GameCube which is probably the best version of this classic you can play, plus 
 it looks amazing. I guess the question is; how much do you want to play this on the move, with 
 its few added gimmicks yet hindered atmosphere to warrant it a worthy purchase over the Cube?
 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: payne6705
Rating: 8.6
Date: May 29, 2006 5:09 pm PT
Review:  basically this is the whole PS1 game shrunk down into the DS but this time there are two modes 
 the old PS1 version or the new deadly silence one which is basically the same game but u can use 
 the touch screen to do some puzzles and shake monsters off you other than that there is no diffrence 
 but the down side is the controls are ehhh and of course the old classic cut scences and voice 
 overs and it makes you say why was i scared of this game again?? but if you enjoyed the old resident 
 evil on the PS1 play this game if you want to get scared and like updated grapics play the remake 
 for the GCN 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rapouc
Rating: 7.9
Date: May 21, 2006 3:31 am PT
Review:  The original Resident Evil revolves around a series of cannibalistic homicides that occur in the 
 Arklay Mountains region, situated north of the fictional Raccoon City in 1998. The local police's 
 Special Tactics and Rescue Squad (S. T. A. R. S.) are commissioned to investigate the sources of these 
 murders. When Bravo Team, the initial team deployed to the area, fails to report back, Alpha Team 
 goes on a rescue mission to find them. They are led to a seemingly abandoned mansion, where the 
 team encounters zombies and other creatures, leading them to discover the remains of most of their 
 comrades in the house.
  
  Before you begin the game you choose which of the S. T. A. R. S Alpha team you wish to play as. At 
 the beginning you can only choose from Jill (Normal difficulty) or Chris (Hard difficulty) , although 
 once you complete the game as different characters you can unlock more characters to play as.
 
  
  The Game opens up with a cutscene exactly the same as it was on the Playstation, explaining the 
 story, and I was amazed at the quality of the video they managed to fit on the DS. Once in the 
 mansion you set out to find the missing members of the Bravo team and, depending on which difficulty 
 you picked, certain members of Alpha team also go missing in the panic.
  
  Resident Evil: Deadly Silences graphics really impress and show what a DS can pull off. The game 
 has many cut-scenes all of excellent quality. Resident Evil: Deadly Silence is also the first DS 
 game to have a 1GB game card to hold these cut-scenes and, of course, the massive game which will 
 take quite a while to complete depending on what difficulty its on, how good you are with the many 
 puzzles that occur throughout the game and of course whether youve played the game before.
  
  The sound on Resident evil DS really creates a scary atmosphere and its suprising that even 
 Resident Evil on the DS can make you cringe when you hear a zombie round the next corner. This 
 plays a vital part in the game as you never want to get to close to a zombie so you always want 
 to keep the sound up so you can hear there oncoming footsteps. There is also the voice acting which 
 comes out quite well through the DS speakers even if it does sound corny.
  
  Resident Evil DS controls do take about an hour to get the hang of , and can be quite frustrating 
 but you do get the hang of it. Now for something that I havent talked about yet, Re-Birth mode.
 
  
  Rebirth Mode is the same game but with features that utilize the feature of the DS. As well as 
 rebirth mode there is classic which is an exact port of the PS1 game. for example one of the main 
 features is Knife slashing with the touch screen, which is actually not too gimmicky and really 
 fun killing zombies with a swipe of your finger.
  Other DS features include blowing off zombie puke by blowing into the microphone, saving fallen 
 allies by giving CPR that requires blowing into the microphone and there are also quite a few touch 
 screen puzzles.
  
  Resident Evil: Deadly Silence will last you quite a few weeks and with all those characters and 
 outfits to unlock youll be playing the game quite a few times if you want to unlock everything. 
 The fact that there are practically 4 versions to play, Easy classic, Hard Classic, Easy Re-birth, 
 Hard re-birth.
  
  Overall Resident Evil DS is a great buy to anyone new to the Resident Evil series and even people 
 who just want to relive the classic moments of the original. Well done Capcom!
  
  Graphics  8/10
  Sound- 7.5/10
  Gameplay- 8/10
  Lifespan- 8/10
  
  Overall 7.9/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TheTuff
Rating: 8.6
Date: May 16, 2006 2:59 pm PT
Review:  Previous to owning this version on the DS, I'd only played a few Resident Evil games for probably 
 a few hours in total, and I'd never actually owned one.
  
  Fear always stopped me getting to a certain level. But, I found, 10 years on from the original, 
 now at 18 years of age, and it being squeezed to a portable version, I found I could actually play 
 it and be entertained.
  
  And so, tonight, I completed the normal classic mode, using Jill Valentine. Finally! I found it 
 to be an enjoyable game, and I might be 10 years behind most, especially my friends who finished 
 it back then, but, its still fun!
  
  I never found it too hard, and while some areas were a challenge, it was never too hard to find 
 my way round them or work out the puzzles. While some of them may be challenging, the solution 
 always appears and even more horrib; ly affected monsters appear!
  
  And so to conclude, as a good majority of gamers already know, its a great game, and well enjoyable.
 
  
  Time to get a start on RE2! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: super_smitersux
Rating: 8
Date: May 14, 2006 8:01 pm PT
Review:  The game is still good even though it is so old, i enjoyed the story line and the acting was quite 
 funny to just laugh at. I would love it if they brought out a first person shooter of resident 
 evil. especially if they did it in the style they had in this game with the touch screen to move 
 the knife to cut the zoombies up. i found the controls slightly hard to get used to but you do 
 catch on after a while. But over all i believe that they can make it look better than that with 
 the ds and also polish up the graphics more. still a good game and i had fun playing it, wouldn't 
 have hurt to have a survival mode or something though where u just use the touch screen in first 
 person mode.
  cheers 
::::::

::::::
UserName: JL2K6
Rating: 8.6
Date: Aug 26, 2006 6:36 am PT
Review:  RE DS has gotten many mixed reactions. People are saying that the controls are ruining it. The 
 controls are akward but okay when you get used to it. And some people complain about the graphics. 
 Sure, some of the character models are akward but the backgrounds are pretty well done for 1996. 
 Plus it is a retro game. It has many good points. It combines fun shooting with interesting puzzles. 
 The voice acting is terrible. Just terrible. But that's one of the great things. It makes the game 
 VERY fun to play. Resident Evil DS is a great experience for anyone with a DS. If you played this 
 and decided you don't like Resident Evil games, you're missing a hell of a lot in Resident Evil 
 4. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: H8TD1
Rating: 8.8
Date: May 8, 2006 6:09 am PT
Review:  Resident Evil for the ds is a port of the original game first released for the ps1. This game offers 
 two modes , classic mode which allows you to play the game without using the stylist , and "Rebirth" 
 mode. Some of the music in this game has been either changed or altered and has been done nicely. 
 In the opening intro , you'll notice that the original actors and the FMV are there for your viewing 
 pleasure. Right off in the beginning you'll see Kenneth Sullivan's head fall to the floor as the 
 first zombie you encounter appears to be eating him. In rebirth mode , you'll find extra monsters 
 in a lot of the rooms , and what surprised me often is when I found myself in "First Person" view 
 wielding my trusty knife as the only weapon of choice. In 1st person , you'll have to sometimes 
 time your attack which helps in defeating the cerberus dogs or defeating the Hunters with one attack.
 
  
  The controls are simple enough to use and offers a quick 180 degree turn. Using the "R" shoulder 
 trigger draws your selected weapon and the "L" trigger draws your knife .The "in game options" 
 allows you to view the blood in either "green" or "red" .The items menu is easy to use and is quicker 
 if you touch the items and the command you wish instead of using the crosspad and action button.
 
  
  The pre-rendered backgrounds are nicely done , with a few exceptions such as in some areas where 
 the shadowing shows a nasty blob and doesn't look good .Otherwise ,3rd -or- 1st person really looks 
 impressive .The cut scenes shows what looks like to me to have a blurry pixel problem ,but still 
 looks Okay.
  
  RE: ds offers automatic targeting and you can switch targets by pressing the "L" trigger .You can 
 save a lot of ammo by shooting your enemy then followed by a knife attack .RE: ds also has quite 
 a few puzzles to solve using microphone and the touch pad and some are quite ingenuous .The tyrant 
 in this game look a lot more scarier this time around .Finishing this game you'll receive the usual 
 items the original has to offer and a whole lot more . You can open up characters for multi-card 
 play and even an extra game .Depending on how you play through the game and what your actions are 
 ,you will have multiple endings just like the original. As someone who has played the original 
 to death , (no pun intended) Resident Evil for the DS has been a fresh breath of air , a lot of 
 fun and is well worth getting . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Natey168
Rating: 8.8
Date: May 6, 2006 9:00 pm PT
Review:  This is the original RE in the palm of your hands! No longer do you have to sit around your PlayStation 
 for the experience of RE:1! You can take it on the road! Ok, this is a pretty good port of the 
 original, and the new Rebirth mode is action-packed! The knifing mini-game is pretty fun, too. The 
 graphics aren't very good, but, it's a port of a PS1 game to a handheld, so, what do you expect? 
 Since it's from the ORIGINAL and not the DIRECTOR's CUT, the voice acting is HORRIBLE! But it is 
 SO funny, too. "Jill,  I haven't had a chance to play 
 the multi-player yet, but I want to. Ummm..... There's really not much else to say. FUNNY VOICE 
 ACTING! ok. Awesome game 
::::::

::::::
UserName: josh3735
Rating: 9.6
Date: May 6, 2006 1:53 pm PT
Review:  I bought a nintendo d. s. just so i could play deadly silence and i was very impressed. I have always 
 loved the resident evil series and i have completed all the other resident evils apart from 2. 
 
  
  Any ds owner who likes resident evil has to play this game! Its Scary, fun and will keep you gripped 
 for hours.
  
  The touch screen brings a lot of lovely extra's that make the game great! The first person knife 
 slashing scenes are excellent, You can slash at the touch screen with the stylus or your finger 
 to bunch together some terrifying combo's! 
  
  It also features a rebirth mode where there is hell more enemies, puzzles and more horror! 
  
 
  GET IT NOW!!!!
  
  "The Fear is close enough to touch!" 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DidiCardoso
Rating: 7.7
Date: May 4, 2006 5:06 pm PT
Review:  The Resident Evil series is pretty much a landmark in the survival-horror genre. Ten years ago, 
 the original game impressed and horrified gamers all over the world, and today Capcom gives us 
 the chance to play it anywhere on the DS with a well executed port of the 1996 PlayStation classic.
 
  
  While RE Deadly Silence offers a Classic Mode to make the retro fans delight, there is a new Rebirth 
 Mode which offers quite a few twists to the gameplay and make good use of the capabilities of the 
 Nintendo DS.
  
  The storyline remains untouched. The S. T. A. R. S. Alpha Team goes in search of the missing Bravo 
 Team, wh was reportedly investigating a series of cannibalistic murders in the outskirts of Raccoon 
 City. As the Alpha Team flees to an old abandoned mansion, they come across a horde of zombies 
 and whats left of the Bravo Team.
  
  Youre given a choice to play as Jill (Normal Difficulty) or Chris (Hard Difficulty) . Jill is more 
 fragile, but shes able to carry eight items. Shes also handy with a lockpick. Chris is a lot 
 more weapon-savvy and strong, but can only carry six items at a time. More characters become available 
 as you complete the game.
  
  The dual screen proves its usefulness by constantly showing us the map, equipped weapon and health 
 status on the top screen. The Rebirth version offers a few new features specfic for the DS, making 
 use of the stylus and the microphone, and resulting in more interactivity with the game. 
  
  In several occasions where opening a chest would happen at a press of a button, you will find 
 a color code puzzle instead, with a dial and several gems that you must match with the respective 
 colored rings in a limited amount of moves. To move the dial, you use the stylus.
  
  Randomly while exploring the mansion, you get thrown into first-person view for a knife fight. 
 These are actually pretty fun, since you get to use the stylus to slash and stab whatever comes 
 at you. I got the hang of a triple slash combo right away, its all in how you move the stylus. 
 Since these are spontaneous events, the only downside is that you have to keep your stylus handy 
 at all times. You can use your finger, but it just doesnt seem to work that well. 
  
  It gets cooler than that though: you get to use the microphone to actually perform CPR on dying 
 allies by blowing on it.
  
  Techincally, there are two game modes: Rebirth and Classic. But there are extras! If you make it 
 through the game in Rebirth mode, you can unlock the Master of Knifing Mini Game. Then, theres 
 the Wi-Fi multiplayer mode that puts up to four players together in the same map (there are three 
 maps to play on) in either cooperative or competitive mode. The purpose is to find the exit of 
 the area as quickly as possible.
  
  If youre playing cooperatively, all the players share the same health meter so you need to act 
 as a team to get through the stage. If youre playing against others, you cant exactly affect 
 them directly, but you can make their progress tougher by killing as little as possible and dodging 
 zombies instead.
  
  The sad part about the Wi-Fi modes is that you dont get to actually see any 3D representation 
 of the other players, as they are represented by stars on the map.
  
  Resident Evil Deadly Silence offers some new features but preserves a lot of the original game, 
 including the grainy graphics and the bad voice acting (which somehow seems even more comical today) . 
 The clunky controls are also there, so if it was awkward playing RE back in the day, it will still 
 be akward now, with the strange camera angles not helping. They do make up for the same Oh crap! 
 feeling that I used to get when I first played RE on a Sega Saturn though!
  
  Although it could have used a few improvements - specifically better controls, live action video 
 sequences, voice acting - Resident Evil Deadly Silence is still an experience that old and new 
 fans of the series shouldnt miss.
  
  Review text part of Grrlgamer. com. Full review and screenshots at:
  http://www. grrlgamer. com/review. php? g=residentevilds 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: zcds
Rating: 8.2
Date: Apr 29, 2006 10:54 pm PT
Review:  I was unsure on to get this game or not but once I got it i could not put it down. This game rocks 
 the DS. I had no problems controling it at all. The cammra can be a paine at times but oh well. 
 Of cosre the classic fmv cis here but looks a bit grainey. The touch screen things are cool like 
 first person kinfe fights and the puzzels. The nice thing about rebirth mode is you get more bullets 
 so you can shoot more knife later. The dule weapon layout is a nice change to. L button to get out 
 the knife and r to get out the gun, it works well. The puzzels do suffer due to little to no tell 
 on how to solve it. This game is stilll scarey i jumped a lot of times. Like when you first find 
 out the zombies on the floor are not dead. When it started chomping on my leg i jumped up! Any way 
 moveing on this is a soild port and I liked it. Reviewers did not like it much but this was made 
 for the fans and most of them love it. You can tell Capcom worked hard on this and it shows. Capcom 
 you did what you came out for RE DS lives up to the RE name. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ze1daplayer
Rating: 9.8
Date: Jul 20, 2006 3:29 am PT
Review:  This game was great. I've beat it in both modes: Classic and Rebirth. Classic is the same as the 
 Playstation version, and Rebirth is ....... Remade. They just added a bunch of Zombies and made 
 some touch screen stuff. I thought that Rebirth mode was harder, cause even though they lay more 
 ammo around the place, you will walk into a room and have 4 zombies crawling on the ground towards 
 you and 2 giant bees. It was a long and fun game. Then when you beat it and you get Masters Of 
 Knifing, thats a fun game if you don't feel like playing the real game. It's in first person view, 
 but you can't walk around, and you move your stylus on the touch screen to slash or stab your enemies. 
 This game is fun to just play over and over again, speaking of the game and the mini game. Yep. 
 The graphics are great and you can see everything all clear, for the DS. It was pretty funny to 
 watch them talk to each other. They have late reactions and wave their hands around even when they're 
 not talking. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tbui54
Rating: 7.3
Date: Apr 25, 2006 7:41 pm PT
Review:  Resident Evil: Deadly Silence is a remake with a few extra features.
  
  Gameplay is the same as it was on the Playstation except with a some added knife touch screen action 
 and a few other DS exclusives. However, the game doesn't control as well as it did on the console 
 and the multiplayer mode isn't online. 
  
  Graphics are almost as good as the original and the item menu has been revamped. 
  
  Sound 
 is excellent. The voice acting is classic.
  
  Value is not that great. If you own previous iterations of Resident Evil, it isn't worth owning 
 the DS version.
  
  Overall, if you haven't played Resident Evil before, play this. But if you've never played Resident 
 Evil, Resident Evil: Director's Cut, or the Resident Evil remake on the Gamecube, what's wrong 
 with you? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: RedPanther95
Rating: 7.2
Date: Apr 23, 2006 10:21 am PT
Review:  Remember backing down a hallway to escape a couple of bloodthristy zombies. The camera shifts and 
 you get ate. Well Capcom is bringing it zombie game to the NINTENDO DS is this game any good?
 
  
  The gameplay is okay the camera isn't so bad on this adventure while you can go to First Person 
 mode to kill zombies with a knife. The game makes use of the stylus.
  
  The graphics are just the same as they were on the PlayStation. While this is the 3rd remake of 
 the game I would liked this game to be like Resident Evil 4 instead of Resident Evil 1.
  
  The sound is okay. The  of the zombies is annyoing.
  
  
 It is just like Resident Evil 1 for the old Playstation 1.
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: WildWorlds
Rating: 9.3
Date: Apr 22, 2006 7:21 am PT
Review:  Resident Evil for the ds is a port of the original game first released for the ps1. This game offers 
 two modes , classic mode which allows you to play the game without using the stylist , and "Rebirth" 
 mode. Some of the music in this game has been either changed or altered and has been done nicely. 
 In the opening intro , you'll notice that the original actors and the FMV are there for your viewing 
 pleasure. Right off in the beginning you'll see Kenneth Sullivan's head fall to the floor as the 
 first zombie you encounter appears to be eating him. In rebirth mode , you'll find extra monsters 
 in a lot of the rooms , and what surprised me often is when I found myself in "First Person" view 
 wielding my trusty knife as the only weapon of choice. In 1st person , you'll have to sometimes 
 time your attack which helps in defeating the cerberus dogs or defeating the Hunters with one attack. 
 
  - 
  The controls are simple enough to use and offers a quick 180 degree turn. Using the "R" shoulder 
 trigger draws your selected weapon and the "L" trigger draws your knife .The "in game options" 
 allows you to view the blood in either "green" or "red" .The items menu is easy to use and is quicker 
 if you touch the items and the command you wish instead of using the crosspad and action button. 
 
  - 
  The pre-rendered backgrounds are nicely done , with a few exceptions such as in some areas where 
 the shadowing shows a nasty blob and doesn't look good .Otherwise ,3rd -or- 1st person really looks 
 impressive .The cut scenes shows what looks like to me to have a blurry pixel problem ,but still 
 looks Okay. 
  - 
  RE: ds offers automatic targeting and you can switch targets by pressing the "L" trigger .You can 
 save a lot of ammo by shooting your enemy then followed by a knife attack .RE: ds also has quite 
 a few puzzles to solve using microphone and the touch pad and some are quite ingenuous .The tyrant 
 in this game look a lot more scarier this time around .Finishing this game you'll receive the usual 
 items the original has to offer and a whole lot more . You can open up characters for multi-card 
 play and even an extra game .Depending on how you play through the game and what your actions are 
 ,you will have multiple endings just like the original. As someone who has played the original 
 to death , (no pun intended) Resident Evil for the DS has been a fresh breath of air , a lot of 
 fun and is well worth getting . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: juanito5
Rating: 6.5
Date: Jul 12, 2006 12:21 am PT
Review:  Well the remakes aren't common in the gaming world but some companies tries and end well (Not such 
 as Movies end bad) as RE: DS.
  The story is the same as the original, the director's cut and the Gamecube Version.
  The funny 
 thing is that the original Real Life Videos are in here, so you can laugh at what can you do best 
 in a home made horror movie.
  The controls are good but a little difficult to learn.
  The graphics stay as the 1996 PS game.
  So you think I'm reviewing RE: Director's Cut, no!, I'm 
 reviewing RE: DS so what's new?.
  Well some puzzles are solved with the help of your stylus (Or your finger) and they're very funny 
 to solve, a FPS (First Person Slasher?) where you scratch o touch thye screen to move a knife and 
 slash Zombies, crows, and Dogs.
  The multiplayer sucks so don't try it please.
  So if you love Resident Evil this will be a jewel but other gamers stay away.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: willkorn
Rating: 9.7
Date: Apr 19, 2006 10:28 am PT
Review:  I loved this game when i watched my friend play it through when it first came out ( i didn't play 
 it until director's cut came out on ps1) , and i've loved it for every system it has come out on... 
 the graphics may be a little outdated ( yet still great for a handheld) , but i'll take amazing gameplay 
 over graphics any day, i also plan on beating it every way i can and unlocking everything... besides 
 being on my new fav system, the d. s., i can take it anywhere and that's worth its weight in gold... i 
 also love stabbing zombies in the face : ) my only regret is alot of my friends are holding out 
 for psp and aren't taking advantages of all the great games like this for d. s., which boils down 
 to not being able to play multiplayer just yet........................... r. e.2 for d. s. anyone? 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DoomMarine23
Rating: 8.5
Date: Aug 25, 2008 8:33 pm PT
Review:  Game play 4.3/5 Two people to play as (Chris Redfield, and Jill Valentine)
  Third Person Auto aiming shooter. Some Puzzles mixed in, with a slight inventory RPG element. Good 
 controls, Camera responds well and does not annoy you.
  
  Graphics 3/5 Same as the PSX version, clear and crisp. Of course, it shows age.
  
  sound 4/5 
 Well done voice acting with expressions and emotion. Sounds them-selves, especially gun shots are 
 good for PSX/DS. Most are crisp and clear
  
  Replay Value is high, due to two playable characters with different events and personal stories. 
 Among some gameplay differences (showing the sealed fates of your comrades) . The Port also has 
 an DS mode/remix, with knife fights which also take use of the DS' built in mic. The Remixed mode 
 contains different layouts for enemies and items. (And some bosses use the knife mode!)
  
  Overall, an old dog with new tricks. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SHUTupNrocK8
Rating: 9.7
Date: Apr 16, 2006 12:20 pm PT
Review:  WOW ... Resident Evil on a handheld system and the DS? Im not mad or questioning I am happy because 
 I hate the PSP and I love my DS and the Perfect game for me on the DS ... Resident Evil DS! Graphics 
 are really good for the DS dude .... Weapons are good and the mosters orignal. This game is so 
 kool just for a hanheld system. Gameplay is awesome, just like the PS1. The value on this game 
 is very very high; if you are a Resident Evil fan you need this game. I cant wait 'til Resident 
 Evil 5 for Xbox 360 comes out ... Feb. 25, 2007 I heard. Thats okay ... take your time Capcom. 
 Please, just make this game perfect! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: revolutionrulez
Rating: 8.9
Date: Apr 14, 2006 11:20 am PT
Review:  it isnt a bad game considering it is for the ds and it is one of the best ds games out there i 
 havnt played multiplayer i will edit the review when i have.
  
  wow a ds resident evil i never thoght the ds was capible but i have been prooved wrong this is 
 a great remake the voice acting and graphics could be improved a bit but it is a good game and 
 worth the money but if your not a resident evil fan you might want to rent it first because you 
 need to be a fan to understand the genius of this game so that is my resident evil deadly silence 
 review please buy this game go on the internet look at it and you will like it go and buy it 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sashak87
Rating: 9.1
Date: Apr 14, 2006 3:31 am PT
Review:  Im not even a resident evil fan and i love it. The graphics are impressive for a ds and the cut 
 scenes are fun to watch and with the addition of rebirth mode it makes it more fun for me because 
 im not good at puzzles but good at slicing zombies up.
  People are saying the controls are hard to get used to but there not up goes forward and down goes 
 back left and right go left and right its not that hard but the aiming is hard to get used to.
 
  Slicing up zombies with the stylus was good fun but got annoying when one appeared in front of 
 you.
  If you like resident evil games get this 
  but if its your first resident evil game id recommend playing a friends first to see if you like 
 it.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: dehearik_nova
Rating: 7.5
Date: Apr 11, 2006 12:05 pm PT
Review:  Resident evil on the ds is the remake of the original everyone grew to love, featureing all but 
 the lisa trevor enemy, the game will keep you going for hours, the new re-birth mode gives great 
 use to the touch screen letting you slash a zombies face of or hack an annoying crow, one of the 
 major let downs is that it isnt online and you have ot be playing with somebody you live near, 
 also the games only takes about 4hours to complete and there arent enough nlockables to keep you 
 going for months. The master of kniving unlockabel is a very amusing minigame thoguh letting you 
 go through levels killing zombies using the tocuhscreen to kill the zombies, dogs, crows , hunters 
 and even a giant snake. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jcheek13
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 8, 2006 11:03 am PT
Review:  This game is perfect, it has everything the original had and then some, the muliplayer is a little 
 weak but the single player game is great. If you love any resident eveil games then you need to 
 get this game. Resident eveil on the go what a great concept.
  A few other gameplay contrivances stick out, betraying the fact that this is an old game. Your 
 characters' inventory space is very limited, for example. Chris can only carry six items at a time, 
 so if you've got two keys, a shotgun, some spare shells, and a medicinal herb, you're practically 
 full. If your inventory's tapped, you can't just drop stuff to make room for more, but must find 
 a storage chest in which you can dump off your spare equipment. In some parts of the game, you 
 naturally wind up going back and forth through areas multiple times just because you don't have 
 enough room to transport all the stuff you find. Also, your ability to save your progress is limited 
 to the number of ink ribbons you have. You use these up at the typewriters scattered around the 
 mansion each time you save. This limited save system might seem cruel and unusual, but you'll probably 
 grow to appreciate how it helps build tension without really hurting gameplay -- besides, you'll 
 find ink ribbons in fairly generous supply. However, the inability to save at any time or as often 
 as you like means Resident Evil DS isn't really well suited for quick play sessions, which you 
 might expect out of a portable game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: NFD
Rating: 8.6
Date: Apr 4, 2006 8:43 am PT
Review:  This game is great! I just got it and love it! It has great graphics, gameplay and lasts a long 
 time. 
  
  The two best things about it are that instead of just text it has ( cheesey ) speech.
  
  The 
 other is that it will last a long time because of the original game and the remake. It also has 
 two playable characters which you pick at the beggining.
  
  The controls are fine when you get used to them.
  
  I don't know about tthe multiplayer but 
 multiplayer resident evil!
  
  I think its the best ds game you can get because its a change from the usual kids stuff nintendo 
 release. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: avee69
Rating: 6.4
Date: Apr 1, 2006 12:37 pm PT
Review:  Resident Evil: Deadly Silence is a re-make of the original classic on the Playstation. It adds 
 on touch screen features, microphone features, aswell as a new mode called Rebirth.
  
  When Resident Evil for the Playstation was originally released, it was a big thing. Fans loved 
 the game. Resident Evil is a series that truely defined the term "survival-horror" to game franchises. 
 It's competitors such as Silent Hill or Fatal Frame can compete, but they cannot win.
  
  Resident Evil adds gameplay elements that will make you jump from your seat. It is scary, unique, 
 and really made survival-horror games what they are today. Resident Evil: Deadly Silence for the 
 DS is the exact same game with some added puzzle, DS features, and the same old crappy voice acting 
 we all enjoy. 
  
  The graphics translate quite well from the Playstation version to the DS version. The game looks 
 great for a DS title. Although the game is kind of pixelated, for a DS title it passes. It gets 
 an 8.
  
  The gameplay department is actually kind of tricky to review. The game is a remake and you have 
 already played this game before. This game should appeal to people who haven't played the original 
 back on the Playstation. Buying the game for one extra mode, a couple more puzzles, and some gimmick 
 DS features would certainly not be worth it if you have already played this game. 
  
  For people who haven't played the game, the game is a refreshing title. This game should also appeal 
 to people who have only played the new and enhanced version of Resident Evil, which is the fourth 
 game on the Gamecube and Playstation 2. If you have only played Resident Evil 4, then playing this 
 game would give you some sort of idea of where the series all started.
  
  The sound is pretty bad, to sum it up. Resident Evil for the Playstation was known for its atrocious 
 voice acting. I actually laughed when Barry said "You could have been turned into a Jill sandwich" 
 because it was so bad. The only part where it scores points for it's sound is when tension is building 
 up when going into a certain room. Other then that, the sound is garbage.
  
  Value would be another tough category to decide. You should already own this game if you like Resident 
 Evil games on the Playstation one. I have mentioned before that buying this game for its little 
 add-ons wouldn't be worth it. The game will last you about 6 hours for people who know what they 
 are doing. Max 10 hours to beat the game for newbies. After that, there really isn't much left 
 to do other then re-birth mode and the extra character. The extra character would just be like 
 playing the game over again, except the guy can carry less items but has more strength. Rebirth 
 mode is more action, but it won't hold your attention for very long. 
  
  The controls are still clunky, but once you are used to them they are alright. Resident Evil 4 
 definetely fixed the little issue, but if you want to play Resident Evil: Deadly Silence you are 
 going to have to deal with it. 
  
  Overall, you should NOT buy this game. After you beat the game, it will just sit there and collect 
 dust. Especially for people who have already played this game way back on the Playstation, it would 
 be a waste to spend your money buying this game or even renting it. If you haven't played the game, 
 it is a rental at most. I speak the truth. Once your done beating it, you won't really go back 
 to it. 
  
  Resident Evil was a great game back on Playstation, but it is the exact same game, that is the 
 reason why I can't reccommend buying it.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: MrMartinLee
Rating: 8.4
Date: Apr 1, 2006 11:27 am PT
Review:  The bottom line is this: if you like RE and own a DS, then you should get this game.
  
  Yes, this is a ten-year-old game ported from the PSOne, so the gameplay and graphics are a little 
 dated. However, this game looks good on the small screen, and it just plays so well I've had a 
 hard time putting it down.
  
  Little touches like the easy-access knife, quick 180, first person battles and Master of Knifing 
 minigame make it simply the best way to play the original Resident Evil.
  
  I haven't had a chance to try the multiplayer, so I can't comment on that, but come on... multiplayer 
 Resident Evil!!!
  
  Probably more for fans of the series and collectors than casual (spoiled) modern gamers... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ardie4352
Rating: 2
Date: Mar 31, 2006 5:24 pm PT
Review:  This Resident Evil game is worst in the series. This game went way way WAY overboard on the blood 
 and gore. They made a great game and stomped on it, threw it into the fire, and took the ashes 
 to be buried. I was really excited when I first saw this game that I bought it right away. Since 
 I like the original Resident Evil, I thought I would like this. Guess what, I didn't! I got my 
 money back the day after I bought. This game is a worthless piece of junk that belongs in the trash 
 can, not in your DS. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: megaplayer742
Rating: 7.7
Date: Mar 30, 2006 7:51 pm PT
Review:  I have been playing Resident Evil games for the past six years now, and I have enjoyed all of them 
 immensely. Resident Evil 1 is one of my most favorite in the series, so naturally, I was excited 
 when they announced a port to the DS. But this game is more than just a port, but not enough to 
 be called a REmake either. This game uses many different features of the DS in its REbirth mode, 
 and ultimately feels like a different game at times. Here is my review.
  
  Graphics 7/10
  
  The graphics in this game are, for lack of a better word, true. They stay the same from the 
 original game, and even contain the beginning cut scene in all its cheesiness. The game also contains 
 a few tweaks to the graphics as well. The character models are a little blocky, and some parts 
 contain some clipping issues. Enemy models are really good, with zombies containing the core parts 
 that made them ever so scary in the original. The graphics are not up to todays standards, even 
 on a DS, but are still decent for what they are.
  
  Sound Music/Sound Effects: 9/10 Voice Acting: 4/10
  
  First, lets start off with the music. 
 The music in this game is great, with each original musical number being brought to the DS. There 
 are also some different sounds for rooms that weren't in the original, and they are fantastic. 
 One complaint I have is that some times they seemed to stop, and go again, but it wasn't really 
 notice able in my play through. The sound effects are also great, but some problems with it are 
 the guns not sounding loud enough, and some of the zombie moans are great at first, but start to 
 get repetitive. Now on to the voice acting. The only thing positive I can say about the VA is that 
 they didn't change any of it, for the nostalgia purposes I guess. I won't get too into detail, 
 but lets just say, don't expect good Voice Acting at all, and expect to hear MANY, and I mean MANY, 
 corny lines in the game. But hey, we always need something to laugh at.
  
  Game play 7/10
  
  Now, since this game is mostly for nostalgia, I can't really complain much 
 here. However, the controls take A LOT of getting used to. The controls are very tank-like, and 
 it can take a while to figure it out and master it. They could of put in a different control scheme 
 for people who don't enjoy the nostalgia, or don't want it. Now, the gun fighting in this game 
 is pretty good. You have your basic hold R to aim and press A to fire controls, which are nothing 
 new if you are a Resident Evil vet. They have also added some cool features for the REbirth mode, 
 such as touch screen knifing, touch screen puzzles, and using the mic to resurrect one of your 
 former teammates (name with held for spoiler reasons) and also for blowing out candles. While all 
 of this is great, it wears thin after a while, and feel like a last minute tacked on gimmick. The 
 monsters in this game usually take about 4-6 shots to take down with a hand gun, and 1-3 shots 
 from a more powerful gun. One complaint I had in the first game is the uselessness of the knife. 
 Now, they have mapped the knife to the L button, which is great, because now you have one more 
 inventory space and can knife whenever you want. At the beginning, when you choose Chris or Jill, 
 your decision changes the game play a little, such as Chris having more health and a better knife, 
 or Jill having a lock pick, and being able to mix chemicals. The story is also affected a little 
 by who you choose, but i'll let you find that out for yourself. The game is pretty difficult to 
 complete the first time, but once you get the hang of everything, it becomes a little easier, and 
 you might even be doing speed runs and the such later on. Overall, the game play stays true to 
 the original formula, and that is both good and bad for the game.
  
  Overall
  
  This is a great game for nostalgia purposes, and if you are that kind of gamer, than by all means, 
 pick this up. Just don't expect it to last you more than one to two months max, because there's 
 only so many times you can de zombify a mansion before it starts to wear thin. If you can, I suggest 
 you rent it.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Elementguy13
Rating: 8.8
Date: Mar 30, 2006 4:03 pm PT
Review:  First of gameplay - same gameplay as the game back from 96'. I never played it but to me its still 
 a good story and gameplay for a game that debuted 10 years ago.
  
  graphics- its all nice with this game, the prerendered backgrounds where a really smart move. Better 
 graphics then the ps version back in 96, i bet your saying '10 years ago? Yeah big achievment.' 
 yeah well it is I mean its a portable game and on the ds. Which isnt a graphically that good of 
 a machine, but I still love it. The only bad thing is the blood! Ahh so haggard in the new version 
 when its on the screen!
  
  sound-you where almost a jill sandwhich, hahaha so freaking funny and it wasnt even intentional, 
 yes capcom was that stupid 10 years back! hah! But the sound is overall good but the dialouge... 
 which comes out of the speakers... which = sound is HAGGARD!
  
  value-not half bad for a game that came out 10 years ago.. think i said that.
  
  Game is good 
 for resident evil fans and non because i only ever played RE4 which is a good game i must add.
 
  
  8.8! Thats what it gets! uh HUH! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gstonyr
Rating: 8.9
Date: Mar 29, 2006 8:01 am PT
Review:  The I was afraid that they were going to change the hole storyline and try to make it to fancy 
 but they didn't they made a good remake of the game. The only thing I wish they changed from the 
 original is the key. The Gameplay is amazing one of he things that they did add is the knifing 
 mode witch is amazing and brilliant [grate idea] . The graphics were better than I expected. The 
 sound is pretty good but nothing special. There are so many different modes like the different 
 people you could be. The game is long but never gets, boring witch makes the value really good! 
 Personally I loved the game I thought that it was a success. The original was a success and so 
 is this one. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DarkoAvenged
Rating: 9.6
Date: Mar 28, 2006 2:45 pm PT
Review:  For those who played the original RE when it was released on PSone, and loved it will fall in love 
 again. To be honest I didn't think I was going to play the game that much, but being a big RE fan 
 I had to buy the game. Much to my surprise I could not put it down.. and after beating the game 
 over 30 times it still hasn't gotten old.
  
  Ok now that I'm done showing my affection for this franchise =P I'll talk about the game play.
 
  
  First off the fact that you don't have to have the knife in your inventory (wasting an inventory 
 slot) and you can just pull it out with a simple click of the L shoulder button makes fighting 
 a zombie with low ammo more fluid and fun. Have you tried beating the game with nothing but your 
 KNIFE?!?!
  
  Second the new DS touch screen use through out the game adds some new feeling to a classic game, 
 though I'll admitt I did throw my stylus across the room a couple times when prompted by a random 
 zombie knife fight. (note to new players: pause the game to save yourself from getting munched 
 while looking for your airborne stylus or having to get finger marks all over the touch screen 
 =] ...) 
  
  Lastly its the original RE with all the same funny voice acting.... (WESKER: Go to Hell...) , and 
 running around with Chris dressed like a ninja knifing everything is just plain fun (Am I the only 
 person who sat for 15 mins pulling Chris's knife out of it sheath just cuz it looked to cool??) .
 
  
  In all this is a great game for new and old fans.. oh the memories. I really don't have to talk 
 about the main game cuz, if you never played it I don't want to ruin the great story. If you played 
 the original its basically the same cept you can play anywhere... for those times when you need 
 your RE fix...
  
  ::sits on toilet, opens DS::
  "Resident EVIL DS"
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: desperado2503
Rating: 9.6
Date: Mar 27, 2006 11:16 pm PT
Review:  The game is pretty good, it doesn't have anything very very different though the rebirth mode add 
 relatively more challenge since you can't let go your pencil for an second you get out from a room 
 because there are 1st person fights in which you use the knife & sometimes.... attacks are far 
 a bit more faster than you can expect (i personally hate the dogs) .
  
  Also the puzzles are a bit different in rebirth mode, but aside everything. 
  It's a must have 
 for those who are loyal for Resident Evil & also who have an nintendo ds of course.
  
  Also what really impressed.. HTF they can compress basically 647 mgbt's of space into 104 mgbt's 
 & the movies, sounds are alike the same as the ps version except they tooked away some of the music 
 like the mansion's 1st floor, etc.
  
  I really was hooked up with the knife mini game Master Of Knifing. In which you have to pass through 
 5 stages of knife madness.
  
  Hope everyone enjoys the game.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: darklord_toccsn
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 27, 2006 5:05 pm PT
Review:  Resident Evil: Deadly Silence is a great game with the combination of pure nostalgia and feels 
 perfect on your handheld, but sadly they must have forgot that the original Resident Evil was not 
 perfect some things are comically bad, such as the horrible Voice Over and Terrible Script along 
 with the absolutely TERRIBLE CINEMATICS but they are so funny to watch I enjoy them (though I shouldn't) . 
 The reason to buy RE: DS is because of the new REBIRTH mode which offers up a harder and enhanced 
 version of the original Resident Evil but the problem with this is the difficulty is extremely 
 spotty considering the lack of item space to hold things and the over population of very difficult 
 enemies, but some new feautures make the killing eaisier like the First Person knife slicing using 
 the stylus. So in the end I think RE: DS brings the old RE game back to life with a whole new batch 
 of fun involved to make a very worthwhile RE experience for your DS. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sicncrazy7816
Rating: 9.3
Date: Mar 21, 2006 8:29 pm PT
Review:  Resident Evil Deadly silence is a very fun game espcecially when your playing it on the go.
  
  Gameplay 
  As always MOST resident evil games have the cinematic camera angle so the game 
 is a tad bit hard to control but other than that the gameplay is great and fun and full of puzzles
 
  
  Graphics
  Great graphics, ultra violent like all resident evil games, and pretty to look up, (if anyone finds 
 out why the blood is set to green tell me, I changed it to red)
  
  Sound
  Everything you enjoy about resident evil is on the DS version, all ther creepy music, the scary 
 sound effects, the zombies eating at you bear flesh, the memories of the PSX days...
  
  Value
  The value to this game really adds up because you have many different game modes, you 
 have classic and rebirth, they have distinct differnces classic with all the puzzles and rebirth 
 with the heavy gunfire, each with clair and jill to choose from, each characters have distinctly 
 differnet stories, and the master of knifing minigame. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: HunkAtYourNeck
Rating: 8.9
Date: May 12, 2006 10:22 am PT
Review:  I know what youre thinking: youve played this game ten years ago, and after a half-dozen more 
 incarnations across numerous platforms, including the complete makeover on the Nintendo Gamecube, 
 why should you bother with the latest re-released version of Resident Evil? Well, lets get to 
 that, shall we?
  
  Concept and Story
  
  Resident Evil was an absolutely revolutionary game for its time and spawned hundreds of clones, 
 but few were ever able to compare. By todays standards, its puzzling as to why this was, since 
 Resident Evil feels extremely archaic in 2006. The basic concept of Resident Evil was exploring 
 a creepy and dangerous world to uncover clues and items to help you proceed and explore new areas. 
 It actually sort of sounds like a classic graphic adventure game. However, there is the dangerous 
 aspect of it. Across the areas youll explore, youll find yourself confronting dangerous and inhuman 
 creatures, including shambling, flesh eating zombies, skinless and vicious guard dogs, gigantic 
 serpents and other surprises. However, to many gamers, these probably wont be surprises anymore. 
 Or, maybe they will?
  
  Resident Evil: Deadly Silence, like the previous editions of the original Resident Evil, follows 
 the tale of two police officers; Jill Valentine and Chris Redfield. These two operatives are part 
 of the STARS task force of the Raccoon City Police Department. Raccoon City is small mid-western 
 community surrounded by forest that has been haunted by things that go bump in the night. After 
 about a dozen or so murders of gruesome cannibalism, STARS is sent into Raccoon Forest to investigate, 
 but all of the members are either brutally killed or chased into a nearby mansion, in whichever 
 order. After escaping into the mansion, you play as either Jill or Chris, each with highly different 
 scenarios. Theyll visit similar areas and find similar means of progressing throughout the game, 
 but Chris and Jill will each meet entirely different characters with different cut-scenes, weapons, 
 and voice-overs, so replaying the game is highly suggested to get the most out of it.
  
  Gameplay
  
  Anyone who doesnt already know how Resident Evil works, well, youre way behind 
 times. Instead of fully-polygonal environments, most Resident Evil games use pre-rendered 2D backgrounds, 
 which forces the game to use fixed camera angles. This means you can only see what the game wants 
 you to see. It makes for some very stylish cinematic shots, and works well most of the time during 
 combat, but it can be a bit unfair as your character is highly vulnerable to off-screen attacks. 
 
  
  Along with the fixed backgrounds and camera angles, Deadly Silence (like most Resident Evil games) 
 uses tank-style controls, meaning that no matter where you are in relation to the camera, your 
 character always moves the same way. This means instead of using the d-pad of the DS to simply 
 move your character in the desired direction, you use left and right to steer them. Resident Evil 
 veterans will have no quarrel with this, but newcomers may find themselves at an odd with the control 
 scheme. If youre afraid of enemies because of this, dont worry too much. After about an hour 
 of play, even the most of weary of gamers will ultimately feel comfortable with the movement scheme, 
 but veterans of the series can jump right in very easily.
  
  As mentioned earlier, you control either Chris Redfield or Jill Valentine throughout the game. 
 Aside from the obvious story differences, there are gameplay differences also. When choosing a 
 character, the game specifies Jill as the Normal difficulty, and Chris as the Hard difficulty, 
 and for good reason; Jills game is much easier. She begins with a knife and gun, uses a lock pick 
 to open certain doors and drawers, can hold eight items at a time, and can often get a helping 
 hand from her partner Barry Burton who will give her items and help her out of tight spots from 
 time to time. Chris, even though he can take a bit more damage from enemies before dying than Jill 
 can, he can only hold six items, begins with only a knife, doesnt have a very useful partner (Chris 
 has Rebecca Chambers, whom can only heal him at certain points in the story) and doesnt get the 
 bazooka, which is an unbelievably useful weapon that only Jill can use. 
  
  Aside from the different characters, you have three different modes to choose from once you boot 
 up the game; Classic, Rebirth, and Multi-Card Play.
  
  Classic mode is basically the original Resident Evil, but with a few key differences. First of 
 all, the games map is always shown on the top of the DSs two screens, along with precise movement 
 of your character as he or she travels. And, with a bit of Resident Evil 4 inspiration, you can 
 now reload during gameplay at anytime, perform a quick 180-degree turn, and draw your knife by 
 simply pressing the L-trigger button on the DS. The knife this time around is extremely useful, 
 whereas it is a waste of space in most Resident Evil games. Due to how easily it can used, and 
 how it does more damage so it can drop enemies faster, makes the game more intense and enjoyable, 
 and saves lots of ammo. 
  
  And of course two timely Resident Evil traits have made it here; the herbs and the item boxes. 
 Herbs are the primary source of healing in Resident Evil. There are three kinds of herbs; green, 
 red, and blue. Green herbs heal your character, red make green herbs stronger (so they heal more) , 
 and blue herbs cure the poison status effect (slowly drains your life) which youre most likely 
 going to become victim to eventually. Item boxes are the magic storage unit of Resident Evil. There 
 are quite a few item boxes throughout the game, but it wouldve been nice to have a few more added. 
 It kind of sucks to finally find that key or crest you were longing for, but only to be full on 
 items in your inventory. This forces you to backtrack to a save point where most of these chests 
 are located. Fortunately, all of the chests are really the same chest in a sense, since no matter 
 what you drop in or take out of one chest; it counts for all chests in the game. So, once again, 
 Resident Evil veterans will cope very well with this, where as newcomers to the series will still 
 turned off.
  
  The second mode is Rebirth, which also contains the new gameplay mechanics featured in Classic, 
 along with some new surprises. The biggest of these new features is the knife battle mode. Sometimes 
 when entering a room you will be thrown into a sort of pseudo first-person view. Make no mistake, 
 the backgrounds are still 2D, so you are completely immobile during this mode. When this happens, 
 swarms of enemies including zombies, crows, dogs, and the clawed reptilian apes known as hunters 
 will ferociously attack you. Here, you use the DSs touch screen to hack away at your foes from 
 virtually any angle using your knife, and enemies have different reaction animations depending 
 on how you slash them. You can chop horizontally, diagonally, vertically, or tap the screen to 
 perform a quick jab that can be repeated in rapid succession. You can also perform a critical attack. 
 When an enemy is right on top of you and readying his attack, slashing at the right time will launch 
 the foe backwards in a one-hit fatality. The bodies will even react accordingly if there are any 
 obstructions in the environment they hit. For example, in one of the first areas, critically attacking 
 a foe will send him flying painfully against the pedestal of a statue in an art gallery. What is 
 so great about these battles is that, while they are scripted, theyre also random, so they reoccur 
 while you backtrack across areas. And since you dont waste valuable ammunition, its a harmless 
 way to have fun once you get the hang of it. And youll be rewarded with prizes like ammunition 
 and healing herbs. However, while this may sound like a screen-swiping easy mini-game, some of 
 the later ones, including one boss battle fought in the knife battle mode, can get shockingly difficult. 
 And to make even more use of the touch-screen, you can use it as a defensive move also. When a 
 zombie grabs you, you scratch the screen to have Jill or Chris perform a damage-inducing kick in 
 retaliation.
  
  Another great new addition to Rebirth are the new enemy combinations. Youll fight enemies in areas 
 that you might have thought were once safe in the original and youll battle more interesting enemy 
 varieties. Something that is a little trait of Resident Evil is that when you fight something, 
 its always that same thing. Meaning, you wont fight two different enemies together. In Deadly 
 Silence however, you may end up fighting spiders and zombies, zombies and crows, dogs and hunters; 
 all kinds of challenging and nifty bouts. If you cant already tell, Deadly Silence is certainly 
 more action-oriented than the original. Youre going to fight way more stuff, way more often, and 
 its fun and keeps the game exciting and at a good pace.
  
  However, Deadly Silences Rebirth mode still boasts other smart additions, including all new puzzles 
 that make fine use of the DS touch screen, including some chests youll find commonly that have 
 a puzzle lock you must solve to obtain the prize inside. Or you can use the microphone to simulate 
 CPR while reviving a teammate. Keep in mind that on-screen icons show up while performing these 
 events, so youll always be aware of what to use and when. There were quite a few times where a 
 simple task from the original was quickly elevated into a life threatening crisis in Rebirth mode.
 
  
  It is a bit disappointing to know that the old typewriter save system in intact. This is a portable 
 game, and some kind of quick-save feature would have been much appreciated. The DSs sleep mode 
 (close the DS without turning it off) works great if you need to halt progress before reaching 
 a typewriter though. Still, having a limited amount of saves seems like an extremely dumb idea, 
 since theres always more ink ribbons than youll ever need to use. 
  
  Any Resident Evil veteran will know exactly what to expect, and when they hear things like tank 
 controls, item boxes or fixed camera angles, its more like music to their ears. Resident 
 Evil newcomers should assume some difficulty adjusting, however. But its still a fantastic way 
 relive or dive into the one that started it all.
  
  Visuals
  
  The graphics in Resident Evil: Deadly Silence are, as expected, pretty similar to the original 
 on Playstation save some few key differences. The background lighting is much brighter now (which 
 allows more contrast between colors so environments look less bland, but more vibrant) , the character 
 models are vastly improved (tons more detail, more vivid colors and far less clipping issues) and 
 many of the animations have been redone so they too look more up-to-date. Its definitely an impressive 
 piece of eye candy for the Nintendo DS and a substantial improvement over the original. When facing 
 off against the undead in the knife battle mode up close, the models really do look quite spectacular. 
 
  
  The effects are where the game kind of falls short. Gunshots, explosions and blood spurts are all 
 shown through cheesy over-sized 2D pixels. Really, the blood effects just look downright silly. 
 Capcom could have halved the size of the clouds of gore, and in the process make them look much 
 nicer (less pixilated) and more realistic. Its a minor complaint, but an annoyance nonetheless. 
 And even though the live-action FMV cut-scenes (yes, played by real-life actors) look great on 
 the DS, the CG FMVs look like total garbage. The compressions methods used on these scenes were 
 a bit too harsh. 
  
  Sound
  
  Thank God Deadly Silence uses the score featured in the original instead of the awful remixed tracks 
 in the Playstations Resident Evil: Director Cut Dual Shock Version. The music is by no means fantastic, 
 but it is still quiet and mellow enough to help settle in that creepy, atmospheric feeling, but 
 when things heat up during boss battles and such, the intense and exciting music can sound a bit 
 silly.
  
  The sound effects are pretty weak also. Footsteps are satisfying and passable, and the sound overall 
 is extremely sharp and clear for a DS game, but gunshots and crunching sounds all echo pretty inanely. 
 Gunshots sound too weak, and zombie munching just sounds too fake. However, enemy roars such as 
 zombie moans, hunter screeches, and dogs barking and growling all bleed through the DS speakers 
 in great fashion.
  
  And you saw this was coming; the voice acting. It starts with a truly awful script, and is propelled 
 into worldwide famous hilarity thanks to the characters truly unforgettably bad delivery. Jill 
 will sometimes seem to change voice tone and even accent mid-sentence, as if she was bipolar and 
 double voiced. Chris sometimes seems happy when being attacked or faced with extreme danger. Barry 
 cant keep up with the conversation well enough to stay consistent to the topic, and will inexplicably 
 spout randomly dumb things. Really, Resident Evil: Deadly Silence is a treat for the ears. A B-treat, 
 but a treat nonetheless, and is arguably the best aspect of the game. You and your friends will 
 get a kick out of this.
  
  Multi-player
  
  Thats right, multi-player. Deadly Silence contains two full-fledged multi-player modes for two-to-four 
 players. Cooperative mode is pretty self explanatory, but also the more compelling of the two. 
 In this game mode, you and your friends choose one of nine (!) characters to work together and 
 escape one of the three areas you can select from in less than fifteen minutes. Fifteen minutes 
 may seem strict, but youll soon realize some of the maps can be completed in less than two minutes. 
 Also, exploration and ammo conservation is kind of discouraged actually since when you face boss 
 creatures in multi-player, they die when they take enough total damage, or when the team runs out 
 of ammo. Walk into the battle with one pistol bullet and fire away; that Tyrant is no more. 
  
  In competitive, the same rules apply, only youre indirectly fighting the other players to 
 the escape the area, also in under fifteen minutes. There are some nifty versus mode gimmicks such 
 as killing special enemies that will make enemies for the other player much more aggressive, or 
 nasty status effects such as giving other players the inability to run. 
  
  Replay Value
  
  Resident Evil: Deadly Silence has a lot to offer to help justify that thirty-five dollar purchase. 
 In addition to the first six-to-eight hour completion time, this leaves another character to play 
 as, and more goes at the game via Classic, Rebirth, and Multi-Card play. There are also unlockable 
 costumes, a knifing mini-game with a ranking system, an infinite ammo rocket launcher and seven 
 unlockable characters for multi-player. Plus, Resident Evil is probably the most popular game out 
 there among speed runs (the art of finishing the game as quickly as possibly possible) , and with 
 the new ability skip cut-scenes and loading screens, expect all new world records. Can you beat 
 my Jill/Classic record of 40:10?
  
  Finishing Touch
  
  Resident Evil: Deadly Silence is the perfect purchase for that hardcore Resident Evil fan. The 
 simple fact that its Resident Evil on the go done (almost) right makes it a worthy buy, but even 
 with the new Rebirth mode there still isnt a whole lot of new content here thats accessible for 
 newbies. The multi-player mode most likely wont be enjoyed by too many people since each player 
 requires their own copy of the game, and the chance of not only finding someone who owns a DS, 
 but also this game, is kind of slim. And despite how enjoyable the game is, its obviously a cash-in. 
 The original Resident Evil has been ported time and time again so that everyone and their mom should 
 have played it by now, and anyone who hasnt probably isnt reeling in to their local EB Games 
 to play this version. There are a few nice changes done to the game that make it more friendly 
 to newcomers, but everything they hated about Resident Evil before is still intact, so this wont 
 bring many new fans to the table. So, what was Capcoms objective of even making Deadly Silence? 
 To blatantly exploit the DS owning Resident Evil fans out there, of course. It really does pain 
 me to buy this game and give it such a high score since all Im doing is encouraging the milking 
 that Capcom is known so well for. Regardless, it is a high quality port of a high quality title, 
 and its just as enjoyable as it was ten years ago; I cant deny that. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ericcartman3722
Rating: 9.7
Date: Mar 19, 2006 2:01 pm PT
Review:  Resident Evil: Deadly Silence is a remake of the original 1996 version which was released for the 
 Playstation. With the DS' new features, you are able to use the touch screen for solving puzzles 
 as well as knifing zombies. 
  
  The story starts off as you playing as either Chris Redfield or Jill Valentine.
  You are a member 
 of the S. T. A. R. S alpha team and you are in search of the missing bravo team that have seemed to 
 mysteriously disappeared in the woods of Racoon City. Basically, the alpha team is attacked by 
 a wild pack of dogs infected with the T-Virus. The T-virus is what kills the living and brings 
 the dead back to life as stronger, but less intelagent creatures looking to feed on the living. 
 The alpha team is chased by the zombie dogs into a large mansion. Depending on which character 
 you choose to play as, you will have a somewhat different story. Overall, gameplay is pretty much 
 the same for both characters. Chris has more health while Jill is able to unlock doors and carry 
 more items. For most starting players, I would reccomend playing as Jill just because it makes 
 the game somewhat easier.
  
  The gameplay is pretty much the same as the original game. The controls are set so that you REALLY 
 feel like you are playing as the character not just controling their movements. They take some 
 time getting used to, but if you are a TRUE fan of the original games, you will catch on very quickly. 
 Since the DS has a touch screen, two screens, and a built in microphone, gameplay will be massivily 
 expanded. You can now use the stylus on the touch screen to attack zombies and other monsters as 
 well as solve puzzles and iteract with items. The top scrren of the DS is now used a map. No more 
 going into your inventory every two minutes to look at the map! There is also one point in the 
 game where you are gien the option of preforming CPR using the microphone. You have to blow into 
 the mic in order to revive one of your fellow S. T. A. R. S members. If you are looking for a HUGE 
 change in gameplay, well it's not here. Besides the use of the DS' features, you will find no major 
 difference in gameplay. You are also given the option of playing the original game without any 
 of the DS' features if you prefer.
  
  Graphics: The graphics in this game are actually pretty well done. Backgrounds in the game are 
 VERY detailed and are 2-D, while players and monsters are in 3-D. Even though the characters aren't 
 that detailed, you have to realize how huge the games environment really is and give RE: DS credit 
 for it. Overall, it pretty much looks just as gory and is just as scary as the original.
  
  I see no reasonwhy gamespot gave this game a 7.9 and would highly reccomend it to any DS owner 
 who is ready to take a step out of the Nintendo based genre and into a more dark environment. This 
 is my favorite game on the Nintendo DS so far and should definetly be praised for its awsome story 
 and gameplay. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Armor_Key
Rating: 8.4
Date: Mar 17, 2006 1:49 am PT
Review:  It's like a original Resident Evil with a few extra things like 1st person knife battle, where 
 you can get a certain rewards if you win, which is very interesting addition, but can sometimes 
 get really annoying, well it does me. The other things are those puzzle boxes located in saverooms, 
 where you can get more items, like a Red Herb for example, other minor change is when you beat 
 the Plant 42, and later when you come back, in the same room where you killed the Plant 42, you 
 will go head to head with the Yawn the giant snake in 1st person knife battle. This is one of the 
 hardest fights in the game. There are also few more changes, like some different enemies can be 
 found two at once, like a crow and zombie. And adding Chimera in the Mansion Library was pretty 
 neat. There are more of these changer, but if you don't like them, there's a Original classic style 
 to play. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: wsaf
Rating: 5.3
Date: Mar 15, 2006 6:23 pm PT
Review:  I am a huge fan of the Resident Evil franchise. I completed Code Veronica on the Dreamcast and 
 Resident Evil 4 on the GameCube. I waited with anticipation for Deadly Silence and based on my 
 history and the Gamespot review I happily went down to my local EB and picked up a copy. It was 
 all downhill from there. 
  
  After enjoying the starting animation, I chose the standard character, Jill Valentine and dug in. 
 After some exploring and a couple of easy to handle zombie attacks I became very frustrated with 
 the controls. Up on the D-pad is always forward. Although this sounds simple enough, it is actually 
 quite confusing. If the character is facing right, your instinct is to press the right D-pad to 
 go forward. Instead, Jill turns right. Animal Crossing: Wild World got it right, the character 
 moves in the direction you press. Too bad Capcom didn't use AC's control scheme. 
  
  Next, I wandered down a corridor and a wolf jumped through a window behind me. What followed convinced 
 me to immediately trade the game in. The camera panned out making Jill and the wolf so small I 
 could barely see them. If I took a couple of steps the angle changed dramatically. It took me several 
 attempts to survive the attack (a second wolf joined in) because the controls and camera. Sadly, 
 I gave up.
  
  If you have lots of patience and can get past the controls and camera angles, this may well be 
 a fun game. But for me, it was a bust.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: jotaxxx
Rating: 8
Date: Mar 13, 2006 4:48 pm PT
Review:  The fact that this game is a remake for DS doesn't make it a great game. In fact, the graphics 
 doesn't make this game as scarry as it was on the PS, we are just used to the fact that zombies 
 go around eating people, so the grafics must be great for us to jump off our seats crying for our 
 mothers, so, wanna make a resident evil... make it on Game Cube!!!. the sounds of this game give 
 it a real boost. The silence on each room you visit makes you're DS get rumble feature in fear 
 or something jumping from a window or out of a closet... try playing it with good headsets, the 
 graphics doesn't matter, you just don't want you're friends see you jumping just because the sound 
 a zomby dog made as he broke down a window. Try killing a zomby really using a knife... the new 
 controls are just great. the rebirth mode gives great interaction with the game. playing rebirth 
 mode is like really killing a 64-bit zomby that pukes in you're face. 
  In general, this game is a good game (not great, not bad... just good) . It is like playing the classic 
 "Resident Evil Survivor" reality show (thanks Tom, J. T and the rest of the Super Fash Bros crew 
 for this saying) where you have to escape alive but with the DS capabilities. Great try Capcom, 
 just another good game... try again on the Revolution and PS3!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: NooBPwNaGe
Rating: 7.9
Date: Mar 12, 2006 2:09 pm PT
Review:  This game for me was kind of weird when I first started playing it. As usual in most games, you 
 have to get used to the controls. In some ways the controls are just slightly different than resident 
 evil 4 for the gamecube. A good thing was they kept the concept with the L button to draw out the 
 knife like in resident evil 4. This game is the play station classic with a few twists added to 
 the game to make it fairly enjoyable. For example, the touch screen controls reallly change the 
 gameplay for the Nintendo DS. There are also various puzzles to solve using the touch screen. I 
 would suggest this game to any resident evil fan and others who want a good third person shooter 
 game for the DS. There are a lot of unlockables to fill such as different characters in ds download 
 play. When I got further into playing this game, it turned out to be a good game. Although you 
 may get stuck at parts, it's still an outstanding game. The voice acting is as hilarious as ever. 
 I give this resident evil game a two thumbs up. Although I must warn you, if you never played a 
 resident evil game before, don't go playing this game at night. IM WARNING YOU!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DarkStarBlack
Rating: 8.7
Date: Mar 10, 2006 8:35 pm PT
Review:  Resident Evil Deadly Silence is a great game, full of nice dark but detailed environments and your 
 classic dead, zombie enemies. When you first get the game you will definitely think that the controls 
 are HORRIBLE for movement, but then you begin to understand why capcom decided to make it that 
 way. You use the left and right D-pad buttons to rotate instead of moving left and right, this 
 is because it makes it easier to shoot and slash your enemies without getting attacked.
  
  The most amazing features of this game for me were sound and graphics. REDS really takes the DS 
 to its full potential, with great voice acting and sounds for everything, including music and screams 
 from the zombies (which I VERY much enjoyed) . The graphics were exactly like the original resident 
 evil, which is needless to say perfect.
  
  All in all, this game gets an 8.7 and I highly recomend you pick it up for the DS right away! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bear_bryant90
Rating: 8.2
Date: Mar 9, 2006 5:27 pm PT
Review:  This game is absolutely wonderful. The utilization of the touch screen and microphone give this 
 remake the feel of a completely different game all together. Another good thing in the game is 
 that fact that the map is consistently on the top screen. You know where you have been and where 
 you haven't. You also don't have to pause the game, get to the map to figure out where to go next, 
 un-pause, forget where you need to go and go back into the map (a very annoying thing) . But the 
 thing that probably dumbfounded me the most was probably the way Capcom was able to place the entire 
 opening movie (along with the bad voice-overs) into the game. This game is definitley worth checking 
 out and possibly buying to bring back the great memories of the classic, as well as, the new memories 
 of the new features. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: eminem550
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 7, 2006 8:06 pm PT
Review:  GO Resident Evil DS ,this is my first time playing Resident Evil, and I liked this one so I am 
 going to buy the other one's. anyways lets talk about this games gameplay, its good , but need some 
 improvement on the control, for example , moving the character, and using the knife. now the graphics: 
 as I told you they are the best, but when using the touching screen, it makes the graphic a little 
 bit suck , but I didn't count this one in. sounds may get annoying , because there isn't that much 
 of soundtracks in this game.
  oh I almost forgot , the voice acting and the movie is really nice on the DS.
  
  I am telling 
 you that this game will be scary if you have played Resident Evil first time. so this game is not 
 for kids , its for teenagers to adults ,so if you are a kid , and you are reading this, get out 
 from this board right now , if you won't listen to me , you may get eaten by zombies in your Nightmares.
 
  
  superb 9.5 
::::::

::::::
UserName: M_Maestro
Rating: 8
Date: Mar 7, 2006 1:49 pm PT
Review:  Exactly a decade on from the original's release, you'd think that Resident Evil has no right being 
 re-packaged & re-sold for full-price retail. Of course though, were in a new era as to where this 
 seems to be the common trend for retailers finding new homes on the portable platform for their 
 classic back-catalogue. Resident Evil is my undisputed favorite game of all time, no mistake about 
 it. I still get that nostalgic feeling wherever in the infamous mansion I venture, the magic is 
 still there. Alas, it's just a shame it's not realized as well visually as the Playstation original. 
 However, this at the core is a carbon-copy-like port with a few additions to give it that unique 
 distinctive feel. Everything from the full-motion videos (though scaled down) to the memorable 
 one-liners, are all in-tact here. The 're-birth' & multiplayer modes offer a vaguely different 
 path for veterans who've played the game through before, though wont really challenge too much. 
 In summary, faithful port with inferior graphics. If you're a Resident Evil veteran, for nostalgic 
 effect, you may want to pick this up, and if you've never experienced survival horror in its original 
 form, what are you waiting for? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Zoi_Maru
Rating: 8.3
Date: Mar 6, 2006 8:42 pm PT
Review:  This game is a great port, with good graphics and sound, with decent controls. The two modes in 
 the game are both enjoyable, and allow for a wide audience of players. If youre a veteran of the 
 series, the rebirth mode adds extras that dont feel unnecessary, and are actually pretty fun, 
 giving new life to the classic. Whereas, for casual players who missed out on the original, there 
 is the classic mode, which speaks for itself. Keep in mind, however, this game retains much of 
 the contents from the original, even the live action intro and ending sequences. 
  
  Gameplay: This game retains the clunky RE controls, with some RE 4 twists. For instance, pressing 
 the left shoulder button will make your character of choice draw their knife, while pressing B 
 in Ready mode, will have your character reload the equipped gun. The rebirth mode adds some new 
 puzzles, and a new knife combat mode, as well. 
  
  Graphics: Some of textures are poorly done, and seeing the same zombie numerous times may take 
 getting used to. With that said, though, the graphics are relatively good as far as hand helds 
 go. 
  
  Sound: There isnt much to say about the sound quality, as it is great. The creatures and zombies 
 sound good, and actually have a sense of location in the rooms if you listen closely. The music 
 is very well done, and adds to the overall atmosphere of the game. 
  
  All in all, this game will make an excellent addition to anyones collection, even for veterans 
 of the series, or just casual players who happen to own a DS. Even with the awkward camera angles 
 (Which may annoy some people) , and minor graphics complaints, this is a game which I highly recommend 
 for fans and new players a like. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: EliteDForce
Rating: 9.3
Date: Mar 6, 2006 6:23 pm PT
Review:  White knuckled action that keeps the tension high and the thrills frequent and preserves the amazing 
 game it began as. That eventually unraveled as a shining series that still thrives. Being confided 
 in the walls of a chilling and memorable mansion you find yourself stuck into a situation of desperation.
 
  
  Juggling between limited amo (often) , carefully placed enemies and a memorable environment. While 
 it has some extremelycheesy dialogue and voice acting that acts as a major buzz kill and some lackluster 
 animations (such as gunfire) , and many times the graphics look grainy and sort of lackluster.
 
  
  Though inside of your DS, (and with a extremly convenient map on the other screen) it tends to 
 look overall stunning and impressive, especially the cut scenes. The rebirth mode adds many new 
 interesting twists and turns, utilizing the hardware into many new curves that only adds to the 
 experience.
  
  The only flaw this game really has is it can be very frustrating, and when you rome for to long 
 it becomes bland. Though if your a RE veteran thats not a problem, and even for the first timers 
 it runs pretty smoothly and most of the puzzles are intresting, but easy.
  
  The controls are clunky and unresponsive, but when you get used to them you start to really enjoy 
 them.
  
  Gameplay - 8
  A few efficientweapons, a few efficient puzzles, some extremly intresting controls and angles that 
 portray desperation and hopelessness that adds to the already chilling atmosphere.
  
  Graphics - 9
  Occasionally grainy and sometimes ugly, but for the most part it looks pretty nice.
 
  
  Sound - 10
  Some slick and creepy sounds and tunes that really make a memorable atmosphere
  
  Overall - 
 9.3
  This game is simply satisfying, it builds up a wave of horror and delight that becomes a guilty 
 pleasure. Though it does contain many flaws, such as a lack of diversity in the gameplay itself. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Canuuk
Rating: 8.8
Date: Mar 6, 2006 10:00 am PT
Review:  I didn't remember much about the original version on the Playstation until I bought RE: DS. I was 
 very anxious to buy this game and it took me close to a week to find a copy in stores. I was pleased 
 and still am since I purchased my copy. 
  
  I played the Rebirth mode and it is sweet. It makes good use of the touch screen and microphone 
 features on the DS. The graphics are pretty nice too and quite better than the PS version. The 
 controls can get awkward at times but nothing too serious. 
  
  Overall, it's a great rated Mature game for everyone's favorite portable. Bring on the guts and 
 gore! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Geostrike
Rating: 8.5
Date: Mar 5, 2006 1:50 pm PT
Review:  All-and-all this is the first resident evil game remade with some new secrets and new features. 
 Everything is the same, same cut scenes and same bad voice acting. I'm glad they kept it this way 
 though. The main point is the game is the same except it's on the go! This means that when and 
 when ever you want to blast the heads off of zombies you can. They also added a multiplayer function 
 so now you can blast zombies with friends. In short this game is for resident evil fans who like 
 the old resident evil and like having their resident evil on the go. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Abzebel
Rating: 7.3
Date: Mar 5, 2006 1:43 am PT
Review:  Everything from the original release is included, 
  all the original enemies are included, the zombie, the dog, the crows, the hunters and of course 
 all of the original bosses though unfortunately the director's cut arrange game isn't included, nor 
 are the saturn exclusive enemies, battle game or extra boss battles, and the pc extra weapons aren't 
 , though the ability skip doors are but the some of the edited cut scenes are. Plus the knife has 
 been made a little more worthwhile and the quick turn has been implimented, plus ds exclusive puzzles 
 and costums Overall it's all of what made the original great, but with a handfull of ds exclusive 
 extra and mild enhancesments 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DeadParrot145
Rating: 8.8
Date: Mar 4, 2006 5:59 pm PT
Review:  Gameplay: Resident Evil DS features a few different game modes, they are similar for the most part, 
 but you can definately see major difference between them. If you have played Resident Evil before 
 I reccomend playing Rebirth Mode first, it features the game, but takes advantages of the DS's 
 unique features. In some areas of the game you will go in to a First Person view, and you use the 
 sylus to slash at your opponet. If you never have played Resident Evil before I still recommend 
 going Rebirth, but Classic is also an enjoyable experience. Gameplay features two different characters, 
 Jill Valentine, and Chris Redfield, The different Characters each feature unique abilitys. For 
 example, Jill has eight item slots, will aquire the grenade launcher later in the game, and has 
 a lockpick to unlock unimportant desks, and doors. Chris only has six item slots, and must locate 
 keys for those desks and such.
  
  graphics: Resident Evil Is a two dimentional game, but you can move like in a 3d world. I know, 
 I suck at discribing it. Think of it kind of like doom, but MUCH cleaner, and characters are 3d.
 
  
  Sound: The first DS game that i've seen that features voice overs (though they really suck, but 
 it's part of the game that should never be fixed) the gun shots are beautiful, and the satisfactory 
 screams of sheer terror. I never thought much of the zombie noises though.
  
  Value: Unless you want to collect all the characters for the multiplayer, It only takes twice to 
 get the full value of the games modes. Playing Rebirth with once with Jill, and once with Chris 
 was enough for me.
  
  Tilt: What makes this game so unique is how it takes advantages of the DS feautres. I loved the 
 stylus for zombie slashing, and the mic is used for a few things too. 
  
  
  Misc: Overall this game handles very well, But I must make it very clear that THIS IS NOT RESIDENT 
 EVIL 4! IT IS NOT OVER THE SHOULDER. The controls are akward at first but you adjust to them very 
 quickly. Many people also are upset with the camera angles but its part of the game. If you ever 
 played the gamecube remake, or the ps1 version back in the day, the game was meant to scare you. 
 It doesn't really happen on a portable but the gameplay still makes it worth a purchase. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jdeurlein
Rating: 8.7
Date: Feb 28, 2006 3:29 pm PT
Review:  For a long time, I've watched friends play the original three Resident Evil games. They seemed 
 alright, but I never gave them a chance. I got into the series with Resident Evil 4, and have been 
 hooked ever since. Then Resident Evil: Deadly Silence came out, so I decided to give the game that 
 started it all a chance. The game has two single player modes, Classic and Rebirth, and both can 
 be played by either of the two characters in the game, Chris or Jill.
  
  When I played this game, I was greatly surprised with how good the original Resident Evil was. 
 I started on the Classic mode so I could experience the direct port of the Playstation classic 
 before going to the upgraded Rebirth mode. Being the first time I really played the game myself, 
 I was very surprised by how much the game had to offer.
  
  The graphics in Resident Evil: Deadly Silence aren't exactly easy on the eyes compared to current 
 gen console standards, but the game has excellent graphics for DS standards. The game runs quite 
 smoothly, and the character models look rather decent. The only problem with the zombies is that 
 there are only two models for zombies, so you're basically blowing the head off of the same looking 
 creature over and over again. But still... when you blow their heads off, you get quite a display 
 of gore.
  
  I've payed enough attention to the original Resident Evil to know what the sounds are like. The 
 sounds in the DS remake are exactly the same. On one hand, it's not so bad, seeing how sounds like 
 footsteps, gunfire, and zombie moans are quite good. And then there's the fact that the music is 
 almost always playing something to keep the atmosphere of the game creepy, especially in a tense 
 situation. However, a possible disadvantage of the ported sounds is the fact that the voice acting 
 in the DS remake is just as bad as it was in the original. However, some of them are quite amusing. 
 A couple of examples are Barry's "Master of Unlocking" and "Jill Sandwich" lines, which are familiar 
 to anybody who's played the original. The fact that the voice acting is so terrible that it's funny 
 is enough to make me overlook the bad voice acting.
  
  There's a surprising amount of content in Resident Evil: Deadly Silence. As mentioned before, there 
 are the two single player modes, Classic and Rebirth, that can be played through as either of the 
 main characters. That means even if you don't try to unlock every little detail, you'll still be 
 able to play through the game 4 times and still be tense the whole way through the game each time. 
 
  
  Rebirth mode has a lot of different things than Classic mode. Rebirth mode takes full advantage 
 of the DS capabilities. If a zombie grabs you, you can tap the screen so your character attacks 
 it and kills it on the spot. There are plently of touch screen based puzzles, such as putting jewels 
 on a balance scale just right so it balances out. There are also knife fights where you use the 
 touch screen to fight off a room filled with zombies from a first-person perspective. The microphone 
 is used as well for things such as doing "mouth-to-mouth" to save another person on your side, 
 or for blowing out candles. All of these things can only be done on Rebirth mode.
  
  The Multiplayer mode nicely adds to the game. There are two modes, Co-op and Versus. Up to 4 people 
 can play in a game. In versus mode, you basically race through one of the three maps given to try 
 to escape before your friend (s) . In co-op mode, you obviously fight together to help each other 
 out of the area that you're in. The downside of co-op is that everyone shares the same amount of 
 health, meaning that if you have 3 great players, and one that sucks, you'll all suffer for the 
 person that sucks, so you better help him out. The only bad thing about the multiplayer is the 
 fact that you can't actually see the people you're playing with onscreen. All you really see is 
 a big star indicating the person's location if you're in the same room. However, you can have enough 
 fun that it's an easy detail to overlook.
  
  One last mode that this game has to offer is the "Masters of Knifing" minigame. You really don't 
 get much out of it, but it's a lot of fun, and can be challenging as well. It's fun to slay an 
 army of zombies using only a combat knife.
  
  After starting on the Resident Evil series with RE4, I was reluctant to try this game, because 
 I didn't think I'd be able to go back to the old controls and camera angles of the original game. 
 I was surprised with how well the game handles, even after playing RE4 a lot. The controls are 
 simple and effective for the camera angles. Left and Right make you turn, and then you can walk 
 forward or backward with Up or Down. They also added a couple of control mechanics to both modes 
 of the single player game, which should immediately be comfortable to RE4 players. You are now 
 able to reload at any time without going into your inventory, and you are now able to equip your 
 combat knife on the fly by simply holding the L button, much like in RE4.
  
  I liked this game a lot because it was my first time playing through it, and anybody who started 
 the series with RE4 should definitely check this game out. If you've played the original, this 
 game still offers enough to warrant a purchase, especially if you're a hardcore fan of the series. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: YearoftheSnake5
Rating: 8.4
Date: Mar 16, 2006 6:29 am PT
Review:  Resident Evil: Deadly Silence is very much the same game released for the Playstation a few years 
 back, but isn't quite at the same time. It manages to take a classic game, and make it seem new 
 again.
  
  In this game, you either play as Chris Redfield or Jill Valentine, two members of Raccoon City's 
 special STARS units. Lately, there have been strange incidences in Racoon City involving "Cannibal" 
 attacks. STARS has been sent into the mountians to investigate, but things go wrong and you end 
 up trapped in a mansion. From the point you enter the mansion, the mission is to find a way out... alive.
 
  
  The graphics are a mixed bag. It's cool to see that a CD based game has been transferred over to 
 the DS cart and look so well, but some videos look a bit washed out. It's nothing serious, but 
 still noticable. Other than the difference with the video, the graphics are pretty much the same 
 as the original version. The character's aren't all that well detailed, and neither is the envirnment. 
 The characters look more like a bunch of blocks slapped together up close, but you forget about 
 it once you start into the game. The envirnment varies between looking really good, and dull as 
 dirt. In some areas you'll see some really nice lighting and detail in the walls and floor, and 
 in others it looks more like a rushed art project. Basically the graphics aren't extremely good 
 nor bad. 
  
  Gameplay is sort of the same as the original, but adds several new elements that are DS specific. 
 You control your characters like tanks. You push up on the controller pad to make the character 
 go forward and left and right to turn. This works well with the prerendered envirnment, but definately 
 takes getting used to if you haven't played any of the previous Resident Evil games. Aiming and 
 shooting are made far easier than the Playstation version, thanks to a quick lock on system to 
 spot enemies in bad camera angles and those off in the unseen distance. The controls can take some 
 getting used to, but it doesn't take very long to get them down. The only thing that's really odd 
 about the controls is the wierd placement of "ok" and "cancel" buttons.
  
  Overall, gameplay is done nicely, but the question remains; Is Resident Evil Deadly Silence scary? 
 Suprisingly, the answer is yes. Even veteran RE players will get a jump here and there.
  
  There are two different gameplay modes, Rebirth and Classic. Rebirth is mainly action and involves 
 the DS features and Classic is the original game that was on the Playstation and involves more 
 puzzle solving than action. Rebirth mode throws in a few interesting features, such as knifing 
 and touch screen puzzle solving. Knifing is a minigame that'll come at you suddenly in certain 
 areas and allows you to use the touch screen to direct your slashes on the zombie or other monster.
 
  
  The game even has a multiplayer feature. You can either play Co-operatively or against each other. 
 However, you really don't see your opponent or teammate at all in either mode. They're simply represented 
 by stars on your map. Seems a bit odd since you cannot see your ally or opponent, but once you 
 get used to it you won't notice too much.
  
  The sound is ok when it comes to moans, music, and guns, but the voice acting is terrible. It's 
 so bad to the point that it'll make you laugh. It's not half bad in some parts, but that's about 
 as good as it gets. Once you get passed the crappy voice acting, you'll find that the rest of the 
 in-game music and effects help to pull the scary atmosphere together.
  
  Deadly Silence has enough value to keep you coming back even after you've completed the game. With 
 the two modes, alternate stories for each, and a decent multiplayer, you'll come back to play even 
 after you've beaten it.
  
  Resident Evil: Deadly Silence manages to capture the feel and look of the Playstation version nicely, 
 and throws a few extras in. This is a game for those that never got to enjoy the original, but 
 people that have already played it will find something new and challenging with the Rebirth mode. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Scooter540
Rating: 9.2
Date: Feb 27, 2006 1:05 pm PT
Review:  I never had the chance to play the original on the ps1 so i can't compare it to that one. But overall 
 I am very pleased with this game. I have always liked the resident evil series and I believe that 
 this game is up to the RE standard. It pushes the ds to the limit. It is a challenging game that 
 makes you think, the graphics are good for a ds game, and the sounds of zombies sneaking up on 
 you will send a chill down your spine. It makes you think, and will keep you busy for hours at a 
 time. The only downside I see is that it requires quite a bit of saving, and the ink ribbons are 
 scarce. It's not fun to play for an hour straight, and then die. Other thatn that, and excellent 
 gane and a must buy for any ds owner who likes the RE series. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nobodylive
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 26, 2006 4:39 pm PT
Review:  sweet sweet swet sweet sweet w00000000000000000t sweet sweet swet sweet sweet w00000000000000000t 
 sweet sweet swet sweet sweet w00000000000000000t sweet sweet swet sweet sweet w00000000000000000t 
 sweet sweet swet sweet sweet w00000000000000000t sweet sweet swet sweet sweet w00000000000000000t 
 sweet sweet swet sweet sweet w00000000000000000t sweet sweet swet sweet sweet w00000000000000000t 
 sweet sweet swet sweet sweet w00000000000000000t sweet sweet swet sweet sweet w00000000000000000t 
 sweet sweet swet sweet sweet w00000000000000000t sweet sweet swet sweet sweet w00000000000000000t 
 sweet sweet swet sweet sweet sweet sweet swet sweet sweet w00000000000000000t w00000000000000000t 
 sweet sweet swet sweet sweet w00000000000000000t sweet sweet swet sweet sweet w00000000000000000t 
 sweet sweet swet sweet sweet w00000000000000000t 
::::::

::::::
UserName: inuyasha31405
Rating: 8.7
Date: Feb 25, 2006 4:08 pm PT
Review:  I thaught overall the game was good. The graphics made it as how do you say, not as scary but the 
 overall gameplay was pretty good. I personaly thaught it was great. the only downside i saw in 
 the game was the graphics but its a DS so i dont worry about it all that much because the sound 
 and gameplay make up for the graphics, did i mention the suspense? anyways the bosses were difficult 
 because of the character movement style but by the first boss you shouldnt be having trouble moving 
 around somewhat better than what you first started out as. the first boss to me was easy because 
 i used the rocket launcher and the shotgun, i used 1 round of shotgun shells and 1 rocket so it 
 was easy just avoid the snake bites lol. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DouglasBuffone
Rating: 7.8
Date: Feb 25, 2006 8:13 am PT
Review:  Gameplay:
  The controls are really nice in this game, something that I wasn't really sure was going to be 
 effective when looking at videos for the game. The game is pretty long and has a lot of objectives 
 and other missions to do. The game uses great storyline and good controls to create a fun experience. 
 
  
  Grapics:
  The graphics are pretty good, about your standard N64/DS graphics and they include some pickups 
 from the original game. Framerate is not a problem in the game but some of the environments and 
 character models have some really rought edges. 
  
  Sound:
  The music in the game is nothing special, and I think it does hurt the overall game. The music 
 is not scary and the sound effects are not good enough to make the overall game experience one 
 where the player will feel scared. 
  
  Value:
  The game has a long storymode, but I don't really feel like I am going to go and play the game 
 again. Make your own decision, but it feels like you might want to wait until the price goes down 
 or you can buy it used. 
  
  I would buy this game if you are a fan of the original one, but I would not necessarily buy the 
 game if you want a good DS game. It is a pretty good overall game, but one that you really don't 
 need in your collection. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DarkSnakesoul
Rating: 8
Date: Feb 24, 2006 11:20 pm PT
Review:  They just had to bring the classic back to life but on handheld. The game is like the old playstation 
 version in other words bad graphics now but was good at its time but its good for the ds since 
 the game is pretty big in away. The game also adds rebirth mode... i hope you know what that mode 
 is because i do and its fun.
  
  The game has everything and nothing left out from the ps version. But there is some problems in 
 the rebirth. Some puzzles in the rebirth are hard and annoying such as turning a wheel on the touch 
 screen because if you don't do it right in a way it will not turn getting you killed in the process. 
 
  
  They game also adds a firstperson type thing which only occurs now and then in the rebirth mode. 
 Its easy and all done by you with the touch screen. Only problem is you only get to use a knife 
 in this mode when it occurs.
  
  The game also adds online which is fun after a few gameplays. There are 2 modes coop and battle 
 both are not what you think. Coop is 2 players working together to escape from area aka the map 
 they pick at start. They can't see each other only see a star on the screen which represents the 
 other player. But they can attack the same target killing it easier also if both players are in 
 the same room they both get +damage making it easier to kill stuff. Only problem is that when you 
 battle creatures they will go for you on your game and not your friend but on his it will go for 
 him and not for you.... also you share the same health.
  
  The battle is just both players running around trying to escape first before the other not attacking 
 each other but attacking creatures along the way... The health is not shared which is good though.
 
  
  But overall great game for the ds and should be bought if you have it..... The classic is back and 
 its here to say so might as well join the party and get it because they are selling pretty fast 
 .
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Miroku83
Rating: 9.4
Date: Feb 23, 2006 2:26 pm PT
Review:  I love the resident evil series and this is where my addiction started. I was very excited to hear 
 that a classic version of resident evil was coming to the ds with all the old acting and short 
 corny cut scenes. Game play had a few tweaks to it but for the most part it was all the same. I 
 loved all the new features the ds added to this great title i just wish they had added wi-fi to 
 the multi player. I mean what could be better than blowing up zombie heads with a friend in japan!?! 
 All in all though GREAT GAME. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Seraphim_24
Rating: 7.3
Date: Feb 23, 2006 9:28 am PT
Review:  Anyone questioning how powerful the DS is has a relatively good answer now. The original Resident 
 Evil on the DS holds its own pretty well on the handheld with clean graphics, slightly improved 
 over the original. Basically, on the small screen, the game resembles the N64 RE2. But those of 
 you who are not interested in retro gamming may not exactly be excited about yet another port/remake 
 of the original RE. 
  
  It's not the masterpiece that the GCN version is, and what was scary a decade ago about this game 
 is laughable now. To be truthful, aside from a couple of DS exclusive puzzles, and the knife fights, 
 and a couple of much needed tweaks to the interface Deadly Silence really doesn't offer anything 
 new or innovative so the motivation for picking this title up has got to be entirely about reliving 
 the cheese-fest that was the original PS Resident Evil. 
  
  The game is fun, as it always was, but doesn't light a candle to its GameCube counterpart. In fact, 
 the original live action fmvs are included, intact, as is the original horrible voice acting (the 
 only element of the game that really is scary) . Ever wonder what all the hoopla about the "master 
 of unlocking" is? Well now's your chance to wince in pain as the dialogue passes through the DS 
 speakers into your unsuspecting ear. But that's where the fun lies. We can use this game to remember 
 how far the survival horror genre really has come over the years, and more importantly, we finally 
 have a Resident Evil handheld game that isn't completely unplayable (Unlike RE: Gaiden) . 
  
  My only gripe really is that this game is the original RE... Again. I picked this up only because 
 I want RE games on handhelds that are good, and also because you can't resist an old favorite on 
 a handheld. It means there's actually time to play it. It's also the reason that I've picked up 
 the re-releases of Final Fantasy for the DS/GBA despite having their PS1 counterparts. I have more 
 time for handhelds. 
  
  Even though there are nearly as many ports of RE2, I think that one would have been a better choice 
 to port to the DS. Mainly, it's voice acting (while still bad) isn't nearly as horrid as RE1, and 
 it didn't have the glory of being remade into a masterpiece of gaming for a newer console like 
 RE1 did, basically playing RE2 would feel more natural, since I don't have memories of significantly 
 better graphics and dialogue to contend with. 
  
  In all REDS is a fun addition for the DS library for a handful of reasons. It is the first M rated 
 title for the DS, making it a milestone of sorts. It's a classic, it's so bad it's funny, but still 
 retains enjoyable game play and even has a few new surprises up its sleeves. I just hope Konami 
 sees how good this turned out and brings Silent Hill to the handheld as well. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: falconclan
Rating: 8.6
Date: Feb 21, 2006 6:02 pm PT
Review:  Resident evil: deadly silence was on of the games that i thought could be Very good or Very bad. 
 After finally playing it first hand I can tell you it lived up for the hype i had for it. Resident 
 evil is about the STARS team. The S. T. A. R. S. are a team of special force police, like a more extreme 
 swat who look into more complex, even paranormal crimes. The game starts out with You, either Jill 
 or Chris, in a helicopter where you land in the woods and get attacked. Wesker, Jill, and Barry 
 are the only ones who have made it to their not so safe house. While Wesker is sent to search on 
 his own Barry and Jill are sent together to look for clues. 
  
  The gameplay is, as you may know, survival / horror, and im sometimes tempted to put Puzzle in 
 there too. In this mansion, zombies lurk, giant spiders crawl, and the occasional chimera attack. 
 You must learn how to conserve your limited resources, and read files on occasion for clues on 
 how to solve the puzzles. The puzzles shouldn't be too complex for the veterans of the series, 
 but for the new comers, it may seem a bit harder. The gameplay should be a lot of fun, as long 
 as you dont get stumped on a harder puzzle. 
  
  The game looks far better then the original in my opinion. The first person knife fights are grainy 
 and pixelated, but other then that it looks great. In classic mode, you wont have to deal with 
 the random knife fights so graphics shouldnt be even the slightest of a problem to the average 
 ds owner.
  
  Personaly, i think the games sound is the greatest seen in any ds game. The nasty blood gushing 
 sound to the music, it all sounds good, and it is pretty funny listening to the horrible voice 
 acting, but its not really the games fault, the actors were horrible and its a conciderably old 
 game, making me want to lower my standards on voice acting.
  
  This is my favorite ds game yet. After only a week or so of having it, i have been hooked and probrably 
 have more hours logged into this game then any other ds game (unless were talking castlevania ^_^) . 
 If your a fan, or if you have the money BUY THIS GAME... no gamefly, or anything like that... simply 
 buy it...
  
  LEARNING CURVE: 30-60 for begginers, 1-15 for veterans.
  DIFFICULTY: Variable. You can choose from- training, normal, and hard.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: TYLERPOWERS
Rating: 8.7
Date: Feb 20, 2006 6:57 am PT
Review:  i remember this game when i was just a little kid lol. this game is really good. they have two 
 modes that you can play in including rebirth mode which has 80% action and 20% puzzles. then there 
 is classic mode which has 20% action and 80% puzzles. you can also do multiplayer mode in which 
 you can play with your friends through 3 levels. the thing about multiplayer is that when you see 
 your friend he doesnt look like a human.... he looks exactly like a star running around.... but other 
 than that the multiplayer is fun. the funniest thing in this game is the voice overs... i know that 
 this game is old but still.... they are the funniest things in this game. but all together i really 
 like this game. this is truely an old school classic. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: C0deZer0
Rating: 9.2
Date: Feb 19, 2006 1:39 pm PT
Review:  This year marks the 10Th. Anniversary of Capcom's hit, Resident Evil. During these past 10 years, 
 there has been countless semi-sequels, and actual sequels. Resident Evil was the game to originally 
 coin the phrase, "survival horror," and meant just what said. The game starts out as a team by 
 the name S. T. A. R. S is sent into a mansion to find out the fate of their bravo team. As STARS is 
 dropped off near the mansion, they are almost instantly attacked by what looks like mutated dogs, 
 and they make a beeline to the "safety" of the mansion. Once the team makes it into the mansion 
 they realize that part of their own team is missing and decide to start searching the mysteries 
 of this huge house. 
  
  First thing that Deadly Silence offers besides the original Resident Evil, is a brand new "Rebirth 
 Mode," that adds some new puzzles, new surprises, and new twists to your game, including a new 
 first person knifing mode. You will get to choose between two of the STARS members, Jill or Chris. 
 Each has their own strengths and weaknesses. Jill, while able to pick locks, and carry more items 
 is generally weaker, and Chris may not carry as many items or be able to use a lockpick, but is 
 stronger, Not to mention the story changes a little for each character. The controls are exactly 
 like what they were on the original PSX version of RE, and you will find that your character is 
 controlled more like a tank, so any time you push up, your character will move forward. If you 
 are familiar with this type of control, it won't take long at all to play this game like a pro. 
 As I mentioned before, you will sometimes enter a room, and will enter a first person perspective 
 in which you will only be able to use a knife. This, while a little cheesy, can be fun and surprise 
 you. You will have zombies and crows coming at you, while you use the stylus to swipe at them. 
 Of course, this is only in the Rebirth mode. Also added in RE: DS is a lot of little new puzzles 
 that you will be solving with your stylus. While this can be extremely goofy at times, it is fun 
 to play with the puzzles and see what else they have to offer. A lot of little things stay the 
 same. Like for instance having to collect Ink Ribbons to save your progress with, so playing this 
 game in small bursts is near impossible. Then there are the item chests all around the mansion. 
 You will be able to find a chest and put items in it while you pick up other items that you need 
 right at that point in time. While that can be tedious, it adds a small element of strategy in 
 where you are going and what you are doing.
  
  Surprising enough, the DS does a fantastic job of displaying you everything from the original RE 
 game. Everything from the pre-rendered backgrounds to the animations of the characters and creatures 
 have been stuffed into the DS cartridge. The only real noticeable difference between the two games 
 is a lack of polish in the backgrounds, giving a little more blurry image than the PSX version 
 would have given. Both of the screens are used extremely well. On the top screen, you are given 
 the map to the mansion, with a little display of your ammo, and a blinking background if you are 
 wounded. The bottom screen shows the game itself. While it's great to have it set up this way, 
 the bottom screen can tend to be a little dark, and makes it hard to see some of the background 
 at times. One more little tidbit that Capcom have crammed in RE: DS was every video from the original, 
 so you will see all of the cheesy acting in its glory, and I do mean CHEESY!
  
  Well where do I begin with the sound to this game? If you have EVER played the original PS version, 
 one of the most unforgettable elements in the game was the voice acting. Thanks to some horrible 
 writing ever in a game, you are given some side splitting lines like "you, the master of unlocking," 
 or "I don't need it, I have THIS!" You can't help but laugh at how incredibly bad the lines are 
 in this game. The music is just what you would expect from a game like this. It's a lot of eerie 
 music that is played with instruments like the violin and cello, while it repeats a lot, it still 
 does set a good mood for the game. Things like gunshots are nice. You will hear the gunshot and 
 even the empty shell hit the ground. An eye, or ear should I say for detail like that makes for 
 a great game. Other things like explosions sound good, and zombies munching on you or other zombies 
 sounds gross. The stereo separation of the DS really works with this game, and you can hear the 
 difference.
  
  Being skeptical of this game is all but natural. I have never been a big fan of the Resident Evil 
 games, and to this day I'm still not a big fan. After seeing all of what the game offers, you are 
 given a fun game that will fit in the palm of your hands, and you can take anywhere with you. It 
 is no problem to say that Resident Evil: Deadly Silence is one of the best games for the DS, and 
 should not be overlooked. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: metswonin69
Rating: 9.6
Date: Feb 19, 2006 11:46 am PT
Review:  This game is a port of the original Resident Evil with some extras added on. It is still a very 
 fun experience even after ten years, and with the additional content and a couple of gameplay tweaks, 
 it has become one of the best games on the DS. This game features two modes, Classic and Rebirth. 
 Classic is almost an exact copy of the Playstation version while Rebirth has extra puzzles but 
 is more action oriented. Rebirth is a very good addition to this game and helps make it more worthwhile 
 to buy. Capcom also added a multiplayer mode into the game that looks very fun but unfortunatly 
 I haven't tried it yet. The graphics may not look good in the screenshots, but you will never be 
 confused on what something is, they are good enough. All in all, this is a great game and I highly 
 sugguest you buy it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: citrus_oranges
Rating: 8.9
Date: Feb 19, 2006 7:51 am PT
Review:  I saw a portable resident evil game for my DS. I just love resident evil and bought the game. The 
 game was fun and the multiplayer was great. The is just exactly like the playstation version with 
 newer modes and puzzles taht is portable.
  
  graphics-looks good, might be a bit cheesey, but some places in the game is even better looking 
 then the playstation versions!
  
  controls-If you think you can do the controls just like the other resident evil games, but with 
 a d-pad then you will be okay. If not... you will improve from bad controls to okay controls at 
 least.
  
  gameplay-its fun like resident evil and is even funner with multiplayer. Luckily, my friend have 
 DS' and we don't mind the multiplayer time limit because... we always played it again!
  
  sound-the sounds of the game is okay. Not good because it sounds kind of small. you can still hear 
 the cutscences priceless voices stil which was really 25% reason i was about to buy the game.
 
  
  value-it is worth it if you like resident evil, if you just play resident evil then it will be 
 good enough to worth playing.
  
  tilt-the game is great and i always dream of a portable RE someday. It made an unlikely appearance 
 on the DS, but I got one and it was a great game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Reverted_X
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 19, 2006 12:53 am PT
Review:  Everyone is giving this so-so reviews. I for one LOVE this game. It has everything from the first 
 game, either that's good to long time RE fans, or bad for the average gamer that doesn't understand 
 the complexity of a 10 year old game. All the voice acting is back, yes it's terrible but like all 
 the other RE fans, we love it. The graphics are pretty good considering it looks better than the 
 original. Overall the gameplay plays like every other RE game, but I don't care I love the series 
 a lot. Another thing everyone complains about are the controls, but again, if you're a long time 
 fan you won't care.
  
  Sound-10
  Graphics-10
  Controls-Solid
  Gameplay-10
  
  Buy this game so Capcom can make RE2: DS already! ;) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Wesker22222
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 19, 2006 12:40 am PT
Review:  WELL ABOUT TIME there is a actually pretty scary game on a handheld. you 
  just cant imagine how good this game holds up on the ds. Of course the voice acting isnt good or 
 the cutscenes but so what dont tell me youre gonna ditch a game just because of bad voice acting 
 and cut scenes and have a gcn might as well go with the remake but anyway this game is sooooo sweet 
 the new rebirth mode keeps the game from seeming exactly the same if youve played the game before 
 throwing in some first person kniging and new puzzles ect. Also theres multi play which i barely 
 tried out and its good not perfect but good adding replay ability. it is quite amazing to see how 
 much was packed into this small catridge. This over all validates me buying a ds before a psp EXACTLY 
 its that good. and best ds over all. The atmosphere in the game is terrific turn lights off and 
 put on head phones for handheld experience like no other. THIS GAME IS PERFECT but i guess if I 
 had to point something out it would have to be that even tough rebirth mode had new things it was 
 too much of the same so i basically knew allot of the puzzles from before they should have of done 
 what they did with the remake because i had not known any of those puzzles when i played it and 
 they should of allowed for people to drop items on the floor a la re zero . and have the ability 
 to make a bigger inventory space like re 4 but still great game best handheld game ever of all 
 time RE TILL DEATH 
  
  in closing ....... WTF are you doing reading this GO BUY THIS GAME ...... L8r 
::::::

::::::
UserName: b-baller1415
Rating: 7.2
Date: Feb 18, 2006 8:50 pm PT
Review:  this is the first resident evil game for the ds and looks okay, i think it could be better in looks. 
 The fighting system looks kind of weak, but i could be wrong. the game's cheasy look makes this 
 one look unapealing but looks CAN be decieving. The gun fights look okay and the knife fights are 
 weak looking, but i'll just have to try this one out for myself. I'm thinking about getting this 
 though i played a short demo. i guess i will wait until I hear some more nice things about this 
 horror shooter. So far, I heard nothing but good things from this game , Bravo Capcom. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 0wn4g3_14094
Rating: 9.3
Date: Feb 18, 2006 7:17 pm PT
Review:  I give it a high rating, it was a great game, i havnt beat it yet... but the graphics are good, 
 the gameplay is good, its all good, xept for one thing... y did they have to get the cutsenes from 
 the movie?? they cutsenes and the intro movie are painfull to wach, but considering the game came 
 from a painful movie, i was surprised at how good it is!!! 
  
  All i gotta say is get this game asap, cause if u dont, ur missing out!!
  
  The part that made 
 me not wanna play anymore was when the killer un-dead dogs came after ya, i need to kill them to 
 survive, but... i dont want to, i love dogs, always have, always will, when i shot them w/ the 
 shotgun, i felt guilty i killed the dogs, u know wat i mean? but still, the game is worth the painful 
 cutsenes and the killer dogs, have fun! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Double_Zeta
Rating: 8.3
Date: Feb 18, 2006 4:17 pm PT
Review:  What am I reviewing? Oh yes, Resident Evil: Deadly Silence for the DS. 
  
  Nothing new to see here, Classic RE style gameplay. "Tank-like" character movement, cinematic camera 
 angles, ammo conservation, and zombies. Except now the knife is permanently mapped to the L button, 
 and you can quick reload your weapons with the Y button. Courtesy of RE4. You can choose either 
 Jill Valentine, or Chris Redfield. Jill has looks, a lockpick, a bazooka, and... has looks. Chris 
 has more stamina and better aiming, but he has to find old keys to unlock stuff. They both get 
 a knife, and each get special costumes. Different depending on the mode you're playing.
  
  There's two modes here. Classic and Rebirth. Classic is the first RE game from the PS1. Unmodified. 
 For now though, screw the old. Let's get to the new. 
  
  Rebirth gives you more enemies, more ammo (not much more) , and with pretty unique first-person 
 knife battles. The knife battles in Rebirth happen pretty often, when you're backtracking through 
 an area mostly. You even get a boss battle in first-person! Neat? Not really. The knife battles 
 can get tedious and bland, and don't add much to the game. Sure, you can get "Masters of Knifing" 
 once you beat the game... but 15 stages of the same knife battles doesn't add much replay.
  
  There's multiplayer here, not playable online, but it's multiplayer. Cooperative or competitive. 
 These aren't too exciting either, considering you just run through killing zombies in stages, racking 
 up a score. 
  
  Overall: 8.3
  
  For those who prefer the old-school Resident Evil, you'll dig it. Never played the old RE games? 
 Pick it up. Want a original game that takes advantage of the DS's capabilities? Look elsewhere.
 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: dvader654
Rating: 8.5
Date: Feb 18, 2006 2:42 pm PT
Review:  I have been an avid fan of Resident Evil since the very beginning. The original RE holds a very 
 special place in my heart, few games have meant more to me. So when I heard they were porting the 
 original with new features I was excited to say the least. Thankfully Capcom did not disappoint, 
 this is everything you want in a port and more.
  
  Every cut-scene, every room, every detail from the original is reproduced to perfection on the 
 DS. If you have played the original you know what to expect, if not, get ready for some very old 
 school Resident Evil. If you never liked the RE control scheme then you are out of luck, the tank-like 
 controls are back and in my opinion work better than ever. The DS d-pad is the best d-pad I have 
 used for a RE game, it makes it easy to run around the mindless zombies. Every feature, even the 
 ones people complain about, is reproduced in this game including using ink ribbons to save your 
 game. If you know you don't like this style of game then skip it, if you love old Resident Evil 
 then read on.
  
  Deadly Silence includes two modes of play: Rebirth and Classic. Classic of course is the original 
 game, the only difference are the new moves included with this version which are quick turn and 
 auto aim. Rebirth mode offers a new experience; more enemies, touch screen puzzles and a few surprises 
 populate this remixed version of the game. Though it's not as different as you might believe, every 
 item is still in its same location (except one) and the game still follows the same basic path.
 
  
  What Rebirth mode does excel at is making the game more action intensive. There are more enemies 
 scattered around, more ammo, new intense puzzles that make excellent use of the DS features, and 
 a first person knife mode. The first person knife mode is the most prominent new feature, this 
 will pop up about 15 times during the game when you enter certain rooms. You control the knife 
 with the stylus and you just slash enemies as they come, in-game its rather simple. With the influx 
 of more action and new moves, the game feels more like RE2 in the RE1 mansion which to most people 
 would be a good thing. 
  
  Yet I feel that they missed a great opportunity to make to really make the game feel new. Just 
 adding new enemies and mini-game like puzzles isn't enough to make it feel like a whole new game. 
 In fact the best part of rebirth mode was a small part where you went an alternate route which 
 differed from the normal script of the original game. The game makes you revisit an area you never 
 needed to revisit before, this was the only time I honestly had no idea what to expect, it felt 
 so fresh and exciting, plus it lead to a new boss fight. That was the only time in the whole rebirth 
 mode that I really felt they changed the game enough to make it feel new again.
  
  Luckly the game includes great extras to complete the package. The Master of Knifing mini-game, 
 which you acquire after you beat the game is excellent, I would say its the best use of the touch 
 screen so far. This mini-game takes the simple first person knife mode battles of the rebirth mode 
 and creates a very complex game. You go through 5 stages of knifing various monsters, each stage 
 getting harder and harder. The beauty of the game comes from its scoring system. The game starts 
 a combo when you slash two enemies in sequence, you have a few seconds to continue the combo, each 
 new combo hit adds to a multiplier which increases your score. You can also attack doing a critical 
 hit, which is done by slashing right as your enemy is about to strike, this gives you a large boost 
 in your multiplier plus gives you more time to continue the combo. To get a high score you will 
 need to master the scoring system, lets just say its very addicting. The mini-game also includes 
 two difficulty levels.
  
  RE: DS also includes a multiplayer mode, but since it is not wi-fi and everyone needs to own a 
 copy of the game to play, I can't play it. They are unreasonable demands to play such a simple 
 multiplayer mode so I expect very few people could even try it. But from what I have read the mode 
 could be quite fun.
  
  The graphics are nearly a perfect translation from the PS1 version. I would say the backgrounds 
 are not as crisp and vibrant as the PS1 version but the character models make up for that. The 
 models on the DS seem to be more detailed and the colors stand out more. The sound is rather weak 
 on the DS, all the music and sound effects are represented but the speakers are not powerful enough 
 to really make an impact on you. Lets just say when the dogs come crashing through the window you 
 won't be jumping.
  
  Overall Resident Evil: Deadly Silence does exactly what its set out to do, make a perfect handheld 
 version of one the most influential games of all time. For the hardcore RE fan there is enough 
 in this game to warrant a purchase, plus how can you pass up having this game on the go. I wish 
 they did more with the rebirth mode but that is just me being picky. If you are a fan of survival 
 horror games in general you will find this game to be a worthy buy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: fnakhi
Rating: 8.5
Date: Feb 18, 2006 1:34 pm PT
Review:  At first when I read the reviews of this game here on this very website I was not very convinced 
 that this will be a decent game.... But after playing it on I must say I cant seem to put it down... Highly 
 addictive. Almost a replica of the original PS version....
  Anyone who has not played the one on PS and is currently owning a DS this is a must have for anyone 
 looking for great entertainment... I never really enjoyed my DS before playing this game but after 
 this my prespective has changed. 
  Decent graphics, easy controls, engaging storyline and plenty of modes to keep anyone busy. This 
 truly is value for money.... Double thumbs up. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: monsoon56
Rating: 8.8
Date: Feb 22, 2006 12:34 am PT
Review:  i have not beat this game yet but so far it is pretty fun, i like how there are new puzzles in 
 this game. the one thing i didnt like about this game is the sound!! lol especially when u blow 
 a zombies head off!! that is just AHAHAHAHAHAAHAHAHAH BAD!!!
  
  overall it was a solid, must play for DS game
  
  the main reason i bought this game was because 
 i was looking forward to the coop mode, but it was not that good, its like ur fight the same enemy 
 but tehre are 2 of them! if u no what i mean ( like when i was fighting tyrant, he chased me, but 
 on my bros DS, he chased him!!! i dont get it!!! (its the same for teh other enemys!) ) and ur buddy 
 in coop is a star!!!! 
  
  besides these 2 flaws (coop (but still fun) , and sound) its good! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jh3isme
Rating: 7
Date: Feb 18, 2006 10:07 am PT
Review:  I JUST RECENTLY BOUGHT THIS GAME AND SO FAR ITS WHAT I EXPECTED. THANKS TO ALL THE INFO ON THIS 
 GAME. FROM GAMESTOP. I KNEW BEFORE HAND WHAT I WAS GETTING INTO ON THIS INVESTMENT. THE GRAFFIC'S 
 ARE TO BE EXPECTED FOR THIS LEVEL OF SYSTEM .THIS GAME WAS NOT ORIGINALY DESIGN FOR HANDHELD GAME 
 PLAY. BUT IT IS A VERY WELL AJUSTED EFFORT FOR THE DS. THE THEME REMAINS INTACTED. ALONG WITH THE 
 CARACTORS . IT IS A FUN GAME AND AT TIME CHALLEGING. WITH THE SAVE POINTS ONE HINT IS PRETTY COMMON 
 IN ANY GAME IS TO SAVE YOUR PROGRESS. EVERY TIME YOU GET SOMTHING NEW .YOU ALL KNOW THIS. BUT FOR 
 THE MOST PART I WOULD RECOMMEND THIS GAME IF YOU DONT MIND A CONSOL GAME SQEEZED INTO A HANDELHD. I 
 LIKED IT WHEN IT WAS ON THE PS AND I LIKE IT ON DS. HAVE FUN, PLAY HARD. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: udnoe
Rating: 8.5
Date: Feb 16, 2006 10:00 pm PT
Review:  This is a great game. I'm still playing it, discovering the power the game and every time I awe 
 to the amazement of tha game. At first its hard to control the lady but I got used to (I wish it 
 had an analog stick so I can play better) . once you get a feeling of the game. The game come alive 
 like a scary picture. I have never played this game on the ps so this game is new to me. I recommend 
 this game to every mature 17 yrs old kid except to 9 yrs and younger. It's really hard to get the 
 feeling of the controls. I sure like this game and ds is the best console on the hand held market. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Juggernaut587
Rating: 7.8
Date: Feb 16, 2006 8:18 pm PT
Review:  Resident Evil DS basically adds a few new extras to freshen up the game. While the graphics and 
 controls may seem a bit awkward at first, this overall is just the same thing players knew and 
 loved 10 years ago. RE-DS dosent try to pull off an RE4, it just breathes new life to a very old 
 game. Complaints of the game usually start with the graphics, they're very reminscent to the PS1 
 and the cinemas are very cheesy due to the game being on a very small cartridge but that can be 
 overlooked later on. The online play of the game is not what anyone would expect I thought this 
 would be similar to RE outbreak on a smaller scale minus the crappiness but it does add some replay 
 value to the game. The new parts of the game add some variety which is always a good thing because 
 their executions dont break the game while trying to change the pace. RE-DS isnt revolutionary 
 but nonetheless it is a decent addition to your library so if youre a fan or new to the series, 
 it is definitely worth your time. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bayroot88
Rating: 7.5
Date: Feb 16, 2006 6:10 pm PT
Review:  This all look famliar to me oh yes because i want to get my hands on resident evil deadly silence 
 for the nintendo dual screen i saw the video review is and it was very good.
  
  Grachics
  
  The grachics are really outdated but it looks very for the remake of the game oh when i saw 
 the review we see pixles yeah not so very nice.
  
  Sound
  
  The voice over in the game maybe weak and cheesy but the music in the game sounds great and the 
 oming sounds good.
  
  Gameplay
  
  Gameplay may fells clunky but the knife combat system fells alright and puzzle with the stlush 
 fells good.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: LtTora
Rating: 7.1
Date: Feb 16, 2006 8:21 am PT
Review:  If you have ever played the first RE game you know what to expect. If you have never played the 
 original I should warn you that the controls in the game a clunky in the first order. Sadly this 
 kept me from wanting to continue to play the game. On the plus side the game is a genuine scare, 
 and the greater focus on action is a nice touch too but like I said before the poor controls almost 
 destroy the entire game. 
  This game is obviously not for everyone, however if you can get the hang of the bad controls I 
 think you would really enjoy the game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mikewrestler5
Rating: 8.7
Date: Feb 15, 2006 4:24 pm PT
Review:  Resident Evil DS brings new and old features. One is called, Classic Mode the other is, Rebirth 
 Mode. With the touch screen and microphone you will use those for certain features in, Rebirth 
 Mode.
  
  Classic Mode: Basically the same thing as the original Resident Evil nothing new in this feature.
 
  
  Rebirth Mode: New camera angles, puzzles, creatures, touch screen features, microphone features. 
 Rebirth Mode is what makes Resident Evil on the Nintendo DS fun and creative. Puzzles are really 
 cool when using the touch screen, also innovated. I just think the, Rebirth Mode is a great feature 
 let alone the other features in the game. 
  
  Two player mode: Could be fun besides the fact that you dont see the other player on the screen. 
 But there is also another good reason to buy this game. 
  
  Gameplay: Nothing much has changed since the original. You still have the basic controls, but there 
 is one thing new that I noticed the 180 degree turn.
  
  Control: Same as the original Resident Evil games.
  
  Graphics: The character models are slightly 
 better than the Playstation version, but the rooms, walls, background environments are not as good 
 as they were on the Playstation version.
  
  In the end, Resident Evil DS is a great port from the original adding new things and old things 
 are there. I suggest you pick up this game if you like the old one, or other Resident Evil games.
 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: wrokmyds
Rating: 9.3
Date: Feb 14, 2006 8:47 pm PT
Review:  In the beggining, I wasn't expecting much of this game. But being the mad Resident Evil fan that 
 I am, I went out and bought it. I was surprised it was only 35 bucks. This game has great graphics, 
 is surprisingly scary, and makes great use of all of the DS's features.
  
  Like all Resident Evil games, this is improving on the last. The character models are drastically 
 improved, it has multiplayer, and there are a few new single player modes. 
  
  I picked Rebirth Mode for single player, for I have been playing RE: Director's Cut too much over 
 the two last weeks. The game is different, I'll tell you that. I found myself stuck again a few 
 times. And man did I get scared. With the new knife fights and different placing of monsters, this 
 game is horrifying. I often get a bite taken out of me when I have to enter a knife-slashing mini-game 
 after relative calm for a while. The AI is also much better. Zombies will wait until you go around 
 a corner, and then run, not walk, at you. 
  
  I haven't gotten to play multiplayer any, as this game is criminally underplayed/bought by my friends. 
 I'm sure it is great though, because I have already unlocked two characters by beating the game 
 a few times with decent ranks. You can unlock eight characters total. There is Co-op and Race modes. 
 The three levels are the lab, the mansion, and the residence.
  
  Along with newer graphics and a few surprises, rebirth mode has even scarier music. I am usually 
 on the edge of my seat because I think I am going to trigger some event when the music is just 
 different and more suspenseful. The horrible voicce acting is still there, and they put in a few 
 lines that aren't in the original, all equally terrible. 
  
  This game is really worth it. If you love the first one or have never played it, and if you have 
 the hardware, you need to buy Resident Evil: Deadly Silence. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: fft_ramza
Rating: 9.2
Date: Feb 14, 2006 4:56 pm PT
Review:  This game is considered by many as a port of the original PS1 game, but this one is far better 
 than that and has a lot of originality when it comes to innovation.
  
  The two screens make your game experience a lot better, as it displays different things on each 
 screen, the graphics are amazing, and the sound effects are even scarier than the past ones.
  
  The plot is the same mostly, it's the beggining of the horror at racoon city, when Jill Valentine 
 along with Chris Redfield, Albert Wesker and Barry, venture inside a creepy mansion when avoiding 
 some genetically modified violent dogs.
  
  There are a lot of scary enemies and bosses, you have to take care of them using your weapons.
 
  
  Resident Evil: Deadly Silence is definetly a great game that is guaranteed to keep you busy for 
 hours. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: UberPope
Rating: 9.3
Date: Feb 14, 2006 4:06 pm PT
Review:  So... the Gameplay....
  While the only other RE I've played before this RE: DS was RE4, I really think the gameplay is 
 pretty good. My only big beef with it is what everybody says; you control your character like a 
 tank. This means that Pushing up on the D-Pad on your DS makes the character go forward and respectively 
 to the other buttons (however, left and right rotate, not strafe) . While this might seem like a 
 large problem, it actually kind of adds to the atmosphere of the game (this is not meant to be 
 a shooter, it's a survival horror game) . Another difficult thing to understand is how one time, 
 it may take one or two handgun rounds to down a Zombie and then other times, it takes maybe  
 All that besides the point, the gameplay is just right with a little extra added in (I won't ruin 
 it for you) .
  
  The Graphics...
  While many people say that the graphics of this game are less than to be desired, I really think 
 they are doing this because it's a port from the PS. They most likely expected the graphics to 
 be killer, but come on people.... you have the power of a Play Station (with a little extra I might 
 add if you play Rebirth Mode) in the palm of your hand and that's pretty amazing.
  
  Sound...
  The Sound on RE: DS is just flat out amazing. It is probably the best on any DS game 
 because it helps add to the general atmosphere of the game AND it gives you an advantage to know 
 where your enemies are (A big plus) .
  
  Value...
  The value of this game is astronomical... let's do the math, you got two characters and two modes 
 (Classic and Rebirth) If you spend about 10 hours on each mode like I do, you have 40 hours of 
 intense, just plain fun gameplay.
  
  All of that said, I think this is a great remake of the one that started it all. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: amourkiss
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 14, 2006 2:34 am PT
Review:  The graphics is nice and decent, the polygon texture is better than the PS original, the sound 
 effect is just like the original, although some of you might get pissed with the old-school RE 
 gameplay character movement, it is still a worth noting game for all the RE fans. I played every 
 RE games, and this one is just a must-have to me.
  Looking forward to see if there's gonna be any other RE titles to be remake on the DS !!!
  I'm 
 still working on this game, I really hope to see if there's gonna have new ending or stuffs like 
 that, but so far is just like the original.
  So, if you already played this game before, and is not so much into RE series, I'd say rent it 
 first. For all of you who are RE fans, who can play a RE for several times for the sake of multiple 
 ending, GO get it, it's the game ready and made for you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: youngmurk911
Rating: 9.1
Date: Feb 14, 2006 12:16 am PT
Review:  This is a perfect port, actually this game looks and plays better than the first installment. The 
 graphics are a bit crisper, it runs a little faster. This game is outstanding, but by it being 
 on a handheld it take all of the fright out of it in my opinion. There may be some that still get 
 spooked by this game, but by it being on a handheld it takes all of the scary moments out. This 
 game is still fun and may very well be the best game on the DS. I didn't get into any of the extras 
 yet but I'm pretty sure that tops it off, put the icing on the cake on how great of a game this 
 is. It has the classic voice acting or course [one of my favorites] . If your a fan of Resident 
 Evil and own a DS, you should own this game, its a fantastic port, takes you down memory lane. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: wikkedclown17
Rating: 9.4
Date: Feb 13, 2006 7:59 pm PT
Review:  bottom line: if you own a DS. you should be required by law to own this game. a beautiful remake 
 with tons of fresh twists. a great masterpiece of a game, wonderfully restored and revamped. everything 
 you love about the origional is intact (even the hilarious voice acting) if the origional isn't 
 what you want, the REbirth is what you'll get. a fresh spin on the classic game, complete with 
 first person knife fights, new puzzles, microphone CPR, and a fresh spin on the gameplay altogether. 
 this game costed $30 and it was worth every last penny. all in all; even if your not an RE veteran, 
 you will still love this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ConfuseRay
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 13, 2006 4:45 pm PT
Review:  This game is especially good if you loved your old PS version of it and want to get more of it. 
 There's classic mode and some other mode I forgot. I choose classic because i thought it would 
 bring back some memories. THis game will definitely distract you from other important things, like 
 feeding your dog. But don't worry they're probably in a better place. (I'm sorry Rex) I'd stay 
 up all night playing this baby and during the day in class out of class and ummmm.... Just about 
 everywhere I could until I beat it. It feels a lot better in the dark and the air conditioner is 
 running it makes an eerie mood of everything is cold and it's freakin' awesome. That's not all 
 the voice acting is hilarious they sound like.... Well they're really funny, ok? That about sums 
 it up I mean this game is great. Definitely should not be missed. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: fatboy454
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 13, 2006 4:41 pm PT
Review:  In all the reisdent evil games this is the best one on a handheld genre as horror and shooter i 
 love the knifying game in resident evil u go look 4 the bravo team helicopter who has a shortage 
 in fuel u learn that after u encounter with rebecca chambers but the story is u r alpha team searching 
 4 bravo team then u land Barry, Joseph, Jill, Chris, Wesker and etc joseph finds something he finds 
 a ppk with a hand on it a zombie dog comes out josephc gets killed and in rebirth mode with chris 
 u run into the house weskeer and and jill chris jill wonders about barry u here a gun shot chris 
 wants to search 4 it u first encounter your 1st zombie go to the main hall jill and wesker r gone... 
 and u find out by yourself
  my e-mail is punker_t15@yahoo. com any further questions just hit me at my e-mail. 
  later 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mrme89
Rating: 8.7
Date: Feb 13, 2006 2:23 pm PT
Review:  I hope this helps you on deciding if you want this and you can actually read the whole thing since 
 its not a giant mass like some reviews.
  
  "Here Jill take this lock pick, you the master of unlocking things should have it" This is however 
 how the greatly acclaimed resident evil series opens up in its first game and you'll see it here 
 too since this is the exact port of the first resident evil (except for that little bit of gore 
 that didn't make it to America in the first zombie seen) . This may turn off some people that are 
 looking for an ok scare but don't let that fool you, in the dark this little handheld horror can 
 get you to jump at least a couple of times. This game however is not Resident Evil 4 like a few 
 people have assumed. This is indeed a survival horror game and one of the greatest at that. The 
 story starts off with you team of agents being dropped in a field, chased by man hungry zombie 
 dogs and you flee into a mansion. After a few scripted scenes and linear exploration you let lose 
 to explore in a Metroid/Castlvania "get where you can, find something to get you farther" kind 
 of experience. This is done great though due to the nicely drawn graphics, good tune (if any at 
 the point in time) , and maze like manshion. The map on the to screen is one of the greatest things 
 to happen to these kind of games too since you would be switching between the map and gameplay 
 anyway. There are two modes (original and rebirth) . Rebirth is the enhanced version which dose 
 a few extra mini games which add to the experience and keep you on you toes. One of these games 
 include one in which you swipe the bottom screen to slash enemies with you knife and after battles 
 there will be some zombie blood and if you short on a certain something they will drop that item 
 you need most of the time. Over all the only put of is the controls. For you gamers that got in 
 on the time before the greatest videogame invention ever ie: the analog stick, then you might have 
 a problem. Your character will control like a tank (up, move forward, left/right turn, back, back) 
 This descent take that long to get used to though and you'll noticed why they kept it as you play 
 the game more and more.
  
  As for multiplexer I have only played it once and it was enjoyabe but I'm not sure how long it 
 would be fun for. It has a race mode which you run through rooms of zombies to get to the last 
 room first and a co-op one which I did not try (sorry!)
  
  Im finding this game a great way to wait out for the MP: Hunters game and I hope you find it that 
 way to! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: micahk
Rating: 8.2
Date: Aug 21, 2006 10:03 am PT
Review:  This game is Capcoms second Resident Evil debut on a portable system. Though Resident Evil Gaiden 
 was hopeless Resident Evil DS sheds some light on the portable race for Resident Evil. The Classic 
 Mode is what most people would want from this game. The ability to play their most loved game on 
 the road while the Rebirth mode adds some new flavour to the game such as knife fights, more zombies, 
 more dogs, using the mic as a CPR technique. Though players of the gamecubes Resident Evil will 
 be quite surprised if they expected it to be the same as the gamecube version. Well, its not. This 
 is an absolute port of the PS1 not including rebirth mode. The differences between the RE for the 
 gamecube is the fact that there are no crimson heads, no back door in the main hall, no lisa trevor, 
 no shark battle, downgraded graphics, and dogs are easier to kill. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bigearl69
Rating: 7.2
Date: Feb 12, 2006 8:50 pm PT
Review:  RE for the ds.... I have never played any re game EVER. I decicded to pick this one up and im impressed. 
 Its a fun game h hh hh h h h h h h h h hh h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h hhh h h h 
 hh hh hh h h h h h h h h h h h hh h h h h h h h h h h h hh h h h h h h hh hhhhhh h hh h h h h hh 
 hh h h h h h h h h h h h h h h hh h hh h h h h h h hh h h h h h h h h h h h hh h hh h h h h h h 
 h h hh h 
::::::

::::::
UserName: FutureDeveloper
Rating: 8.6
Date: Feb 12, 2006 8:16 pm PT
Review:  Resident Evil: Deadly Silence is an excellent port of THE survival-horror game, which was originally 
 released on the Playstation back in '96. People who have never played an RE game probably won't 
 like this game due to the controls, but RE familars will crap thier pants with delight. Resident 
 Evil is fully intact, and man does it feel good to play it again. The classic RE controls may not 
 hold up for everyone, nor may the cheesiness, but that is the way it was, and you have to respect 
 Capcom for feeding us nostalgia. However there have been many changes (All good, thankfully) . 1. 
 Your map is on the top screen, which makes everything so much less tedious. 2. The knife has been 
 mapped to the L trigger for quicker use. 3. You can now manually reload. The touch screen is put 
 to much use here, as you can use keypads and such. And then there is Rebirth mode. Rebirth mode 
 is excellent. Its the same game, but with more enemies, different enemy placement, MUCH more ammo, 
 more action, LOTS of touch screen momements, (including a zombie-knife-slashing minigame) and it 
 greatly adds to replay value. Think of it as an extreme Director's Cut. AND there's two characters 
 to play as in each mode, so replay value is not a problem.
  Resident Evil is ported perfectly. It even has all of the hilarious, poorly acted dialogue, and 
 even the intro movie that featured real actors..... If you want to call them actors. ( Joseph!!!!) 
 I was extremely satisfied with REDS, and I really hope the port Resident Evil 2 and 3. Give this 
 one a whirl.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: evilchris02
Rating: 8.6
Date: Feb 12, 2006 7:21 pm PT
Review:  It 10 years since the first game released. I still remember when I play the RE when I was 6, after 
 I played RE, I was amazed by the game graphic, and also the idea of this game, this is the only 
 game that I thought is worthy to be called "suviving horror". After 10 years, I can't belive this 
 game would be in a portable format. The new game play amaze me, but what amaze me even more is 
 this game actually can't score an 8. Well, the graphic of this "new" RE is not remarkable, but 
 what I think is the game play at least in 8 or higher. This new game also give us more challenge 
 than the old one, since they put more zombies then the old one, you will have to watch more closly 
 on the ammo situration. In the old game, I could kill all the zombies and beat the game and still 
 have ammo to spare. The new first person knife slashing game is another thing that amaze me the 
 most, I can't belive they could actually use the DS touch screen in a good use like this, make 
 this game even more "fun". Anyway, all I want to say is "DON'T USE A PSP GRAPHIC TO COMPARE THE 
 DS" 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Snoop_trizzle
Rating: 8.9
Date: Feb 12, 2006 6:57 pm PT
Review:  Take a classic. Keep all the originality intact but add something new. Multiplayer, touch-screen 
 support, microphone support, and even a more action-oriented version of the game (the normal version 
 still included... duh) and you got RE: DS.
  
  You can either play as Chris Redfield or Jill Valentine as they find refuge in a deserted mansion 
 where they are supposed to be supplying support for a ally for another police team. But who would've 
 guessed the Tyrant-Virus was on the loose?
  
  That sets the pace for the game. You play as either of the two as they adventure through the mansion 
 and its premises looking for fellow police for members, running from the undead, and searching 
 for clues to figure out what happened. The environments are pre-rendered 2D, with slapped on 3D 
 character models. The environments show alot of detail and color for what we've seen so far on 
 the DS. The character animations, as well, are at the best of their game for the DS. 
  
  Bonus/add-on stuff for this remake is as follows.
  
  Multiplayer. You and up to 4 buddies traverse 
 different environements coop or comp with eachother. The multiplayer has all the features of the 
 original game including the 1st person slashing. The biggest rant about this feature, is how the 
 other players are portrayed as colored stars..... yeah, pretty dumb.
  
  Extended/More action-packed gameplay in "Rebirth Mode". The Rebirth Mode features the 1st person 
 slashing, more ammo placement as well as more enemies, somewhat tweaked plotlines. Classic mode 
 is best for thrills where as Rebirth is for trigger happy blood fests.
  
  Sound is pretty cool and features really corny voice acting from the original PS version. Even 
 the so-dumb-its-funny full motion video cutscenes are intact. Me and a friend especially got a 
 kick of the FMV at the start up screen... Graphics are pretty cool and the blood effects are satisfying.
 
  
  A great game. Definetly hard even on the normal setting. Controls take some time to get used to.
 
  
  Capcom, it's a no-brainer that you should port RE:2 and RE: 3 Nemesis to the DS. Please, that'd 
 be awesome. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: HiroArka
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 12, 2006 2:16 am PT
Review:  One thing about the DS version is the Rebirth Mode and how they use the Knife mechanics from Resident 
 Evil 4 .. I love this game .. Plus I love the Resident Evil series and Capcom .. The Multicart 
 part is awsome .. All the cheesyness is intact from audio to video .. New and Old Surprises .. 
 All in all .. in my opinion .. I think this DS version came out great .. Hopefully they can do 
 this with Resident Evil 2 or 3 .. maybe do a facelift on both titles like they did Resident Evil 
 for Gamecube and add a lot of the new features seen in 4 .. but .. I am satisfied with what they 
 did with Resident Evil on DS .. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kamillebidan92
Rating: 9.4
Date: Feb 12, 2006 1:01 am PT
Review:  OK then when i fisrt wanted to get this game i was Hyped but after a week of hard Schoolwork. I 
 lost it all. Thats when my mom offered to buy me RE: DS if i pay 10 bucks. Of course I accepted. 
 WOAH. The Controls were VERY CLUNKY AND DIFFERENT. But still after a while of using them. its Pretty 
 Easy. The gameplay is Fun and never gets old. The Puzzles will make you think and the Graphics 
 are Very Sharp. The Touch Screen Fights are fun but not as Fun as regular Fighting. Even though 
 the controls are kinda hard, you WILL get used to it. Also the Mechanics are excellent and the 
 Game is just Great. 
  
  IF your a RE Fan i dont know why u havent gotten this yet, But if you are a gamer looking for a 
 Great Game for the DS, Then u should pick this one up. Because this is one of those games people 
 will be talking about for years to come. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Yagami-Iori
Rating: 9.3
Date: Feb 11, 2006 7:44 pm PT
Review:  Resident Evil: Deadly Silence, the final visit to the game Resident Evil on its tenth anniversary 
 of chilling gamers to the bone. And even though a lot of what is in this game has been seen & done 
 before, all the extras offered up in this version of the game make it enjoyable, addictive, and 
 well worth another go anound... and another... and another...
  
  Gameplay- 10- First, let's get classic mode out of the way. The game is left completely intact 
 in its original form and plays as smoothly as ever. The only change is that you hold the knife 
 RE4 style & can pull it out at any time. This is prbably due to Capcom believing this simple feature 
 should have been in RE in the first place.
  
  But the real fun comes from the new Rebirth Mode. Many changes are made, like reloading without 
 having to go to the menu or running completely out of ammo, doing a quick 180, touch puzzles, knife 
 battles, item movement, among other things (like extra enemies... a LOT of extra enemies) . The 
 mode really gives a new feel to a game that many, simply by hearing port of RE1 feel is stale before 
 the get-go. The knife battles are amazingly fun. It takes some skill in timing slashes, getting 
 combos, and just keeping from getting hit by smaller enemies like crows. There is even a bonus 
 game that can be unlocked involving knife battles, which is really fun to play through, trying 
 to beat your own score.
  
  There is also now a CoOp and Versus mode which is multi-card. These modes are also tons of fun 
 to play. Also, many of your unlockables are seen here, mostly different character models to play 
 as. But everything moves smoothly. A great addition by Capcom.
  
  Graphics- 8- Capcom never billed this as a high graphics game and it isn't, it is a flawless transition 
 of the old 1996 graphics to the Ds and for that, I give it a good score. There is no slowdown ever.
 
  
  Sound- 9- Just as creepy as ever, if not even more so.
  
  Value- 9- Four total game scenarios to play, Master of Knifing, and multiplayer modes make this 
 a game you & your friends can come back to again & again.
  
  Tilt- 10- Just a well done game by Capcom.
  
  Game reviewers are really banging the hell out 
 of this game in the score, simply because the game has been redone before. They aren't reflecting 
 the game & its quality, but their own biases to a game that isn't RE4 or is just RE1 again, and 
 are inturn, really hampering the overall score this game is receiving. Shame on them. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Icarus_37
Rating: 9.4
Date: Feb 11, 2006 7:25 pm PT
Review:  Resident Evil DS is RE1 port of PS1 orginal and it ports well to the handheld. Rebirth Mode adds 
 fun to the game and also some difficulty. The Knife fights are a good add on adding some new element 
 to the game and making good use of the touch screen. Any hardcore RE player and even new players 
 will enjoy this feature, it adds some surprise since its never known when they will appear and 
 what enemy (s) you will have to knife. Also added in Rebirth mode is some new Puzzles, which for 
 most part is just add ons to the orginal but still makes use of Touch screen and also some completly 
 new puzzles Touch Screen applicable. Rebirth mode also adds a lot more Enemies and ammo along with 
 some difficulty of the added creatures that were never there before. RE DS has some good amount 
 of Unlockables in it so keeps your replay value good and also you still have option of using Jill 
 or Chris so theres two play throughs right there. The Multiplayer mode i have played with Co-Op 
 and its pretty fun and diffrent. Its deffintly a good feature for the DS version of RE and gives 
 you first time option to play RE with friends. (Outbreak dont count because solely Online play 
 RE is just crap.) RE for the DS is addictive and will have you playing it many times.
  
  Gameplay 10 ----The gameplay is great for Orginal RE, camera angel and "clunky controls" are fine, 
 ppl just dont seem to understand the diff between old and new RE games and u cant compare them 
 expecting an old port to play like a new one.
  
  Graphics 7-- While they are good for the DS, they are still grainy cause its the old RE port, but 
 they still arnt bad.
  
  Sound 9-- RE music is always good, even think they added some new tunes to this including the horrific 
 noise the unclothed zombies make, freaky.
  
  Value 10 -- I would have paid $50 for this game, so $30-40 for it is worth it.
  
  Tilt 10 -- Im 
 a die hard Resident Evil fan and this game rox all around. Buy it, u wont be dissapointed unless 
 your one of those ppl who get hung up on the new generation crap and cant handle the classics. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nikosuavee
Rating: 9.2
Date: Feb 13, 2006 1:17 pm PT
Review:  this game is simply put... gr8. im a huge resident fan all the way from one to zero. and when i 
 say gr8 i mean it.
  
  first the graphics in this game are executed so well that it-in some parts- look better than the 
 original make. the chracter animation are fluid and clear making it easy to distinguish who the 
 players well b4 u get n2 the real game. the level design is also a marvel to look at. ive been 
 a ds owner 4 a while n i kno this game carries some of the graphics better i have seen. pictures 
 really dont do it justice, the only way 2 really experience the art n the game iz 2 go pla it.
 
  
  next iz sound. itz hard to believe that they actually put voice n2 that small azz cartridge, and 
 this of course makes out to be an even better experience. even with all that aside the game still 
 manages to pull of some surprising tricks; like corresponding the direction that u r facing and 
 then emitting the sound out of that speaker. so u will never be preplexed on which way the enemy 
 iz actually coming from if u listen carefully. sound effects add alot of excitment 2 tha game az 
 well but music iz the icing on tha cake. tha sweetest icing around. tha music score iz moody and 
 dark and puts u n the correct atmosphere for game. hard to believe u can actually get spooked on 
 a portable gaming system huh... itz possible.
  
  gameplay iz a definent must when remaking (or even makin) a gr8 game. the game does an awesome job 
 of duplicating the motion and foundation of what it takes to make a direct port of this modern 
 day classic. the game iz hands down what you would wanna expect from this game. the ds also gives 
 use to touch screen allowing u 2 use tha stylus instead of tha d-pad 2 make critical r not so critical 
 decision all with tha "innovativetouch of a screen. the game also operates at a smooth frame 
 rate that stays from tha moment u enter 2 tha moment u exit (reguarding that u make it out) . the 
 game also provides som some cut scenes that are refreshing to look at on the ds.
  
  with this being a resident evil game u can expect large amount of reason to pick it up and pla 
 again. this edition of r. e. keeps that tradition alive by providing 2 modes of gameplay. tha most 
 recognizable of course is tha classic mode. you run-of-the-mill classical gameplay; less ammo, 
 more puzzles, "evasive manuevers", every thing ur used 2!!! n jus 2 giv tha game a dab of versitility 
 r. e. ds , gives this version another mode entitled "rebirth". this is an high octane, bullet bustin', 
 zombie slayin', game mode. totally satisfiying no matter what u r used 2. u can even play between 
 2 characters, giving u more reason 2 play over and over again. which iz exactly what i did. multiplayer 
 mode hasent been tested on my ds yet but az soon az it has i will update this post.
  
  all-in-all, this a gr8 game for "ANY" resident evil fan. making it a must for current ds owners. 
 smooth graphics, gr8 sound, replay aspect, and multiplayer modes make this game prime on ur game 
 list. go get it!!!
  
  n7I { () 
::::::

::::::
UserName: steff3121
Rating: 9.7
Date: Feb 11, 2006 1:38 pm PT
Review:  RE: DS is a top knotch game for the D. S. The graphics are solid, and the voice acting is straight 
 out of a crappy horror film (though at least the developers went to the trouble to make it into 
 actual voice overs) , as is the story; when a team of police goes missing because of unknown circumstances, 
 the other team is sent in to investigate why. Upon locating the downed helicopter, the police make 
 a run for it when they are attacked by zombie dogs. They come to a mansion nearby, and are then 
 treated to the chaos within. In Rebirth mode, you get a few extra features, including knife combat, 
 special puzzles, and a few surprises. All of this comes at a price; the graphics have suffered 
 a little in transition, and the game is still using the old controls. Those of you familiar with 
 the RE4 controls might find it hard to go back to the old style. Finally, the game is a tad hard 
 to play when in contact with direct sunlight (hard to see) . Take all of my complaints aside, though, 
 and you have an extraorinarily well done game at your hands. (I didn't have a chance to review 
 multiplayer, as no one I know has the game, too) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: FastrBlastr
Rating: 9.4
Date: Feb 11, 2006 7:34 am PT
Review:  This game is great. Im a real Resident evil fan. And love this game its got good graphics alot better 
 then the ps1s. And i just love the game its a great great great great great great great great great 
 great great great great great great great great great great great great great great great great 
 great great great great great great great great great great great great great great great great 
 great great great great great great great great great great great great great great great great 
 great great great great great great great great great great great great great great great great 
 great great great great great great great great great great great great great great great great 
 great great great great great great great great great great great great great great great great 
 great great great great great game. I recomend it to resident evil fans 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 7Red7Raven7
Rating: 9.6
Date: Feb 10, 2006 5:07 pm PT
Review:  This game is awsome! The moving around is weird... and it has weird angles which makes it hard 
 to fight. But it has pretty good graphics but when they try to make the graphics super good thats 
 when they do get a bit slobby. The scariest parts I think is when dogs jumped though the windows 
 and when I thought a zombie was dead but it wasn't so it grabbed my leg. It's scary at first but 
 than at one point something in you just triggers and your fear is gone. So than you got killing 
 every thing. So it's pretty good! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Alucard7321
Rating: 8.7
Date: Feb 10, 2006 2:06 pm PT
Review:  The old voice acting is back!? With the cheesy Steven Seagal movie actors FMV footage!? Wowow sounds 
 good! 
  
  .. and yes, and not... in some respects that is... Hmm where to start.
  
  Ok basically you have to keep in mind this is a FAITHFUL port from the PS1 original... so they didn't 
 want to make THAT many changes to it... however.
  
  There two modes in this game, Rebirth and Classic.... i've so far only played Rebirth and the only 
 thing thats differant in Rebirth is the "knife battle system" which comes into play... oh and the 
 fact you can use your stylus pen to turn a valve anti-clockwise... other than that i expected a 
 WEE bit more.
  
  See heres my logic behind it.... if its a faithful port, then the CLASSIC mode makes sense of this... but 
 then you go make this "Rebirth" mode... so... what, your gonna add more features to the game? So 
 what was the point in only adding two major features?
  
  I honestly thought the Rebirth mode would have like.... a DS/PS1 version of the maps and areas you 
 saw in the GC's remake of Resident Evil 1. Shame it doesn't have this... anyhow, onto the rest of 
 the review:
  
  Funnily enough when you begin... itd terribly hard.... you'll often be running past 5 zombies with 
 2 crows attacking you at the same time.... which sounds ridiculous and it is... BUT... then later 
 in the game... you find you have all these healing items and ammo dumped on you.... so.... ok... now 
 all sudden its incredibly easy!? A bit unbalanced in that respect.
  
  Other than this, the sounds are excellent in this game, the cheesy voice acting brings back memories 
 and also makes a whole campy feel to the game so its HARDLY at all scary.
  
  Graphically its a bit blocky here and there.... though you expect that from the DS, it has it's 
 limitations, but its still fun to play gameplay wise.... shame i didn't save Richard... i didn't 
 want to give him mouth to mouth... ugly... b$!@%d! (lol)
  
  So overall, if your looking for the EXACT port of the PS1 version on your DS, its here but dont 
 expect anything else from it... apart from the fact you can turn 180 degrees (WAH HEY! They finnaly 
 trained Star members to turn properly in combat!) .
  
  Also... as it seems this game has had SOME popularity on its release, and the fact they even made 
 a game off the PS1 original port, its pretty obvious we are going to see a Resident Evil 2 port 
 on the horizon for the DS.
  
  Till then, keep givin those zombies head... i mean.. headshots.  .  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Conan999
Rating: 5
Date: Feb 10, 2006 10:31 am PT
Review:  This game will bring back memories of the resident evil that you mom wouldn't let you play, but 
 you always played it over your friends house because it was just an awsome game for the time. Although 
 this game zombifies an old game to make people play it agian it still has the bad graphics that 
 you remember from the old game on the playstation even though the DS is capable of much more. Knowing 
 this it just makes the game feel dull. The thumbs up for this game is that it revives and old classic 
 and is the first Resident Evil for the DS so far. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: wickerman2004
Rating: 8
Date: Feb 10, 2006 7:41 am PT
Review:  Resident Evil DS delivers the goods it's selling, yes it is the classic RE control scheme, and 
 that's a good thing - it does add to the overall gameplay experience. All the original game is 
 intact - quite impressive on the DS I must say. You can get sucked into the atmosphere if you let 
 yourself.
  
  The sound is good, works very well. The graphics are good - no it's not RE4 caliber, but it does 
 the job quite nicely. The gameplay transfers very well onto the DS - if you played it before - 
 you're not going to have much of a transition if any to playing on the DS. 
  
  One minor quibble with the title - in Classic mode - it would be nice to have the action on the 
 top screen and the map / inventory on the bottom - but this really has no bearing on the game at 
 all.
  
  I would recommend this title to anyone seeking a trip down memory lane or looking to get some portable 
 RE on. Don't let the jaded gamer in you deny you of this treat. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Faust_DWfan
Rating: 9.4
Date: Feb 9, 2006 2:52 pm PT
Review:  Resident Evil DS is a remake of the first RE for the PS1.
  
  Story: 10
  Simply great, one of the best stories for a game. you can choose between two characters Jill and 
 Chris. They have slightly different story lines. You are sent to go rescue bravo team when you are 
 attacked by zombie dogs so you are forced to go into a giant house. they think its safe but it turns 
 out to be a nightmare.
  
  Gameplay:9
  The gameplay is very good may take a little time to get used to but once you get used to it, it 
 gets fun. The only thing that is kind of bad is the tank like controls it takes some time to get 
 used to. They use the stylus very well for the random knifing parts.
  
  Sound:10
  The voice acting is VERY funny (not meaning to be) . The zombie moans and gun shots and such are 
 great. the music fits the game very well.
  
  Graphics:8
  for the DS the graphics are great, they look better than the PS1 did (just my opinion) the zombies 
 have good detail characters are very smooth looking.
  
  Over all:9.4
  A must buy for any Resident Evil fan. I recommend it to any horror and puzzle solving fan.
  
 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Juno54
Rating: 8.4
Date: Feb 9, 2006 2:08 pm PT
Review:  This is a very well made Resident Evil game. The rebirth mode is quite a challenge. And of course 
 the classic mode really appeals to new RE fans and old school RE fans. One little suggestion, I 
 think they should have done maybe just given the Co-op mode and versus mode just a little more 
 time. If they would have spent a little more time on that, I would give this game a higher score. 
 But, that doesn't make this a bad game, this is a very well made Nintendo DS game and would be 
 a good edition to a DS owner's collection. Capcom is going in the right direction for a portable 
 RE game. Now what I am hoping for is that they make more of the RE series for the DS and give it 
 more each game more time than the last. And of course, improve the multiplayer features. But other 
 than that, this is a very good game for the DS. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: LasPlagasHope
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 9, 2006 1:58 pm PT
Review:  When i picked up this game the day it same out i was looking forward to a port of the ds with a 
 few touch screen add ons but they give new life to a really fun game now while classis is the same 
 old game u saw in 96 rebirth is really cool usung the touch screen to solves puzzles and slash 
 zombies with the knife. Now lets get on the graphics they look every cool on the ds and u get all 
 the live action cut scenes and that fun lil video that made resident evil a victim of bad translation 
 in gaming. The voice action is back like it or not. The multiplayer part of the game is fun and 
 u get to unluck all the members of the cast by the time ur done and thats keeps u commming back 
 for more. The game isnt hard at all while it might take some getting used to if uve haved played 
 an re besides re4 in a while. You do get a button to pull out ur knife so u wont need to change 
 wepons andit does not take up inventory space ull be doing a bit of back traking but with a map 
 right in front of u it makes it very hard to get lost also it help u find out where your going 
 and what room u have and have not been in. The one thing that i did like was that there is not 
 quick save action u; ll have to find a type writer but ink wrippens some in a huge suply and also 
 ammo is itsnt as rare as it was in in the ps1 version but u you will not be able to waist any ammo. 
 The zombies and other enimies are really cool as well. Well i hope u'll like the game as much as 
 i did. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kbturner1438
Rating: 8.8
Date: Feb 9, 2006 1:33 pm PT
Review:  This game has rebirth and classic. Rebirth is the original with a few ds touches (no pun intended) . 
 That was a stupid comment so anyway Classic is obviously a duplicate of the original Resident Evil. 
 This seems to me like it was made more for hardcore fans rather than new RE4 fans. You better not 
 be expecting cool cut scenes because as hardcore fans know the cut scenes arent exactly cool as 
 in intense. The cut scenes and dialog are the same, extremely cheesy and very hilarious even though 
 it is not meant to be. The multiplayer mode is a new bonus its nothing out of the ordinary but 
 still great fun. The controls and movement is really anoying at first but you get used to them. 
 The camara angles are cool but it unfortunately doesnt do the player any justice. That about the 
 only down side besides the health meter. However these negative aspects don't stop me from likening 
 this already classic. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: melikeRE32
Rating: 8.3
Date: Feb 9, 2006 12:56 pm PT
Review:  wow. thats all i can say after playing this game. wow. im serioous, this is probably the second 
 best resident evil game ive played (the first being RE4) . while the graphics may not be stunning, 
 compared to other ds games, this is amazing. the controls may take some getting used to, but its 
 not to hard to get to know them. this game is pretty hard for first time players, but offers many 
 new modes for veteren players. the sound is where this game shines. you can hear zombies shuffling 
 around, you can hear crows squawking from behind closed doors, and the music helps set the eerie 
 sceane. all in all, this is a great game, and should be bought by anyone who has a slight intrest 
 in this sort of thing. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rageanmachine
Rating: 9.3
Date: Feb 9, 2006 10:09 am PT
Review:  If you was a fan of the old resident evil and have a DS this is a most to have! Being able to play 
 this great game on a portable is just awesome. The game play is solid, the new rebirth is soo wicked, 
 and the versus and co-op to play with someone else WI-FI what more do you have to ask for. If you 
 own a DS get out there and buy this one a most for your collection. Plus if Capcom sees it doing 
 well there will be more Resident Evil goodness coming our way for the DS. SUPPORT PEOPLE SUPPORT 
 BUY THE GAME! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Chatotic
Rating: 8.9
Date: Feb 9, 2006 5:41 am PT
Review:  I know, Who would have thought it? A resident Evil game for the DS. But it's here, so now we have 
 to live with it... and buy the sucker!
  As you're surely aware, Resi is about a team of elite operatives who are sent to a creepy mansion 
 after the previous team dissapears there. It doesnt take long for you to realise the occupants 
 aren't zombies by birth, and so the game begins. Everythings there from the PS version, right down 
 to the horrible, HORRIBLE voice acting. Whether thats a bonus or a plus is up to you, but personally, 
 I havent played this game in 10 years, and it was refreshing to play it again.
  The controls are a little awkward on the DS's interface, but if you get put off by that you dont 
 deserve a DS.
  The multiplayer? oh, thats the iceing on the cake. Don't go wifi, get some friends over and scream 
 in their ear as you send a zombie over... to their screen! Oh, the cruel pleasures...
  *ahem* anyway, this is undoubtedly one of the best games on the ds so far, and I would recommend 
 it to anyone that owns one.
  Oh yeah, just dont get it if you still own the original. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Silent1333
Rating: 8
Date: Feb 8, 2006 10:17 pm PT
Review:  While I watched the opening movie I thought "Wow, who would have thought?" The original Resident 
 Evil in your hands. The graphics are a little better but nothing spectacular. The sound is a little 
 choppy but good for what it is. One thing I noticed in the beginning was at certain angels it was 
 sorta hard to see but after a few minutes I didn't really notice it, I guess you just get use to 
 it, or it just might have been me. *shrugs*. The controls didn't really take that long to learn 
 really, I didn't have any real trouble moving around. Rebirth mode is pretty cool, every now and 
 then you will enter a door and be fronted by some zombies and have to take them out using your 
 stylus in first-person. The puzzle chests add a little more to the almost non-stop zombie killing 
 so if you're big on the puzzles you still get some in Rebirth mode. The Classic mode is well, the 
 Classic and well worth playing all over again. Overall this is a must buy for Resident Evil fans 
 everywhere and maybe for those of you who haven't tried it out yet. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nekrotaunter
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 8, 2006 8:17 pm PT
Review:  the first resident evil is a game i've already played to death. much like zombies ate my neighbors, 
 i can only start the game and play so far before i just lose ambition and put in another game from 
 revisiting the game so often. once you get over the hump of the intro to characters, weapons and 
 basic knowledge of the mansion, it still stands as a great game. the control isn't bad, it's the 
 same as playstation but with the added quick turn and reload. more puzzles abound to balance the 
 supposedly new action packed mode. handy knife equipped saves you a few bullets by standing in 
 for a shot or two. the knife battles weren't as intriguing as i hoped, but it is something to learn 
 to like, there's just a slight delay in the action to swipe. rebirth mode manages to still toss 
 in a few jumps even for the veterans. the main problem with this game being portable is something 
 capcom couldn't control. you have to be alone and in mild to no light to play. you can't just play 
 this game as you talk to a friend or in strong light creating a glare. you have to be able to see 
 every detail on the screen and let yourself fall into the game. if you were to say play this game 
 on a bus with the sun on your screen, your likely to just tire of it. it's from this that you find 
 that even though the game is so cheesy in acting, you still take the scenario seriously. the problem 
 brings you to probably end up playing the game alone in your room... where your playstation is anyway. 
 to make this review very basic i will say that if you've never played the original or remake, it 
 is very much worth the price. just play it under the correct conditions. if you've play both versions 
 so far, only buy if you truly must own a portable version or if you don't tire of games you've 
 been time after time. sometimes a game like this is needed to balance out portable titles such 
 as mario kart. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: secily
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 8, 2006 5:29 pm PT
Review:  Okay I love resident evil and I am bias in this game so I give it a 10 and rate it a game you need 
 to get for your DS because resident evil is one of those games where it has its charm and history 
 associated with it. Remember when the playstation and sega saturn had resident evil on it then 
 we got the sequels and dreamcast then came the nintendo game cube remake which was awesomeness 
 in its own right. DS resident evil cannot go wrong because you can blow into the mic to revive 
 the snake bitten guy, you can touch jill and chris in bad ways lol just see how its done, oh and 
 also the coolness factor of solving the puzzles with a DS. and besides the nintendo DS blows away 
 the playstation boring portable. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BobtheJedi
Rating: 9.6
Date: Feb 8, 2006 4:38 pm PT
Review:  10 years ago I popped in a copy of Resident Evil on my brand-spankin new PS and was blown away, 
 with gameplay and the overall creepyness of the game. Now I'm playing it again and I have the same 
 reaction. Resident Evil: DS is a pretty solid game, with a few new gimmicks to keep us playing.
 
  
  If you played the original RE, you know the story; the Raccoon City S. T. A. R. S. Alpha team sets 
 out to find the Bravo team, who went missing while searching a nearby mansion. Unfortunatly, as 
 soon as you set down you're attacked by zombie dogs and are forced to run into said mansion. As 
 either Chris Redfeild or Jill Valentine, you must find out why everyone is falling dead by zombie-itus.
 
  
  Gameplay is still the same as always: You run around, shooting stuff, grabbing keys and eating 
 (or smoking) some herbs to heal yourself. All the great stuff from the original is here, including 
 all the its-so-bad-its-funny dialoge we all know and love (I have THIS!) and the new puzzles are 
 great. Props to Capcom for really using the DS` hardware well.'
  
  Of course, if you only played RE4 (or if thats all you've been playing recently) , it may take 
 awhile to get used to the controls again. I did'nt really have a problem with it, but I was really 
 irritated by the button placement on the DS. I really don't like that the B button is where the 
 A usually is, so it took awhile.
  
  The new "Rebirth" mode was pretty interesting to play, but what really got me hooked was the multiplayer. 
 It could use some work, but its still cool. You basically have 2 modes: Single and Co-op. Single 
 is basically a race to get to a target zone first, but its made interesting by the fact that anything 
 you kill will pop up on an opposing players side. The map shows where your opponets are, but there 
 only stars, which is kinda irritating after awhile. Co-op is also fun, where you still gotta get 
 do a predetermined point, but by working together. Sharing the same health bar and other nifty 
 tricks will convinvce you to work together.
  
  If your in the same room, that is. RE: DS multiplayer must be played with 4 diffrent games for a 
 full match, and since you can't talk to your teammates/opponets via game, it might be better if 
 everyone is within talking distance while playing.
  
  This is just a small setback, however. Resident Evil: Deadly Silence is a awesome game for the 
 DS; heck, this game was the ONLY reason I got a DS. Sign me up for RE2 when it comes out on DS. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pukdrock
Rating: 9.3
Date: Feb 8, 2006 4:31 pm PT
Review:  I can not believe that they could make this game so good it was truly awesome, the graphics were 
 unbelievable (for ds i mean) . One of my 
  doubts were that they were not going to have live talking but they did.
  Althought the graphics 
 were not as good as the playstation (it almost al
  most matched the graphics of the playstation version) version, they did a 
  good job of making 
 sure you knew where you were and so you could see
  what the players looked like. They also made the game better by letting 
  you always have a knife 
 with you unlike hte playstation version. Finallly the
  last thing I will say is taht the multiplayer is also really amazing and fun
  and also the mini-game 
 masters of knifing is fun. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: LexLas
Rating: 8.7
Date: Feb 8, 2006 11:43 am PT
Review:  The game I used to stay up all night playing when my son was only one year and a half old and he 
 used to peek from the bedroom curtain and run away and say "Resident Feefull" Resident Feefull" 
 is now going to be in his hands on the DS what a great come back. I've been through it and it's 
 a defenite classic and now the newer generation will experience it as well. My son is now 11 years 
 of age and will still get a kick out of it like it was a new game.
  GREAT JOB BRINGING THIS ONE BACK !! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ChesdermanStip
Rating: 8.3
Date: Feb 7, 2006 10:31 pm PT
Review:  Let's just get something down. This game was already remade, and considering that you played the 
 original, or the remake on the Gamecube; you can't help but feel that this game is starting to 
 get a little old.
  
  Although it is old, it still remains fun to play. 
  
  The game itself still stands as an action thriller, with minor flaws which will only distract you 
 if you are looking for them. The graphics are possibly the best on the DS right now. Although that 
 isn't saying much. But overall it doesn't misdirect you from the gameplay. 
  
  Although the graphics are a definite drop from what the Resident evil series has come to show, 
 its not enough to make fans, or just players period, find it dull.
  
  The only pet peeve I have is definately those cutscenes. 
  
  I wanted to strangle myself while 
 watching them. But then again I was never interested in cutscenes period for the whole Resident 
 Evil thing. But they are very dull to me.
  
  If you like resident evil, and you have a ds. Knock yourselves out.
  
  If you like resident 
 evil, and you have a psp... What were you thinking lol 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Tok3d
Rating: 7.1
Date: Feb 7, 2006 5:35 pm PT
Review:  A remake of an old classic, Resident Evil Deadly silence adds its own features to the mix on the 
 special Nintendo DS system. Now, the game is good, but it has its fair share of shortcomings.
 
  
  Gameplay
  The gameplay in RE: DS is the same great classic stuff. Although the controls are pretty clunky 
 until you get used to them, it still nails what it was trying to accomplish; and that was make 
 a successful remake of the original resident evil. The 2 player mode is good. Its co-op, and it 
 gets things right. 
  
  Graphics
  The graphics are probabley better than what the original RE had. The textures look fine on the 
 DS, and you can see animations well. Backgrounds are nicely done as well.
  
  Sound
  This has to be the worst part of the game. The voice acting is very, and i mean very, very horrible. 
 It almost makes you wanna laugh when you listen to it. Its horrible. Ths gun sounds, and door creeks, 
 and Zombies are pretty well done on the other hand, because everything hits ground nicely, and 
 gives you the feel of the game, and the situation that takes place.
  
  Value
  Pretty good. It will most likley last you about 10 hours or more, if you take your time.
  
 
  Overall
  Overall, RE: DS is a good remake of a classic game. Certain things prevent it from being perfect, 
 but it gets all the basic things right, and its new additions, such as the touch screen controls 
 are really good. If your into the RE series, you should definitley check this game out; even if 
 you played the original. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: zeeduckieez
Rating: 7
Date: Feb 7, 2006 5:31 pm PT
Review:  RE: DS is an excellent game, perfectly transcripted from the PS to the DS. The graphics are excellent, 
 but are tinkering on the edge of good and bleh. The gameplay is still kept from the original, and 
 its excellent. The graphics - which I love talking about - are great. The original models, and 
 background are there, slightly revamped for the DS. The new innovative FPS system is an excellent 
 addition, but it does take a little time to get used to. The sound is top-notch, and the controls 
 are a little hard to get, but overall its great. Its a great rental, but I wouldnt advice buying 
 it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Daniel2005kc
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 8, 2006 2:40 pm PT
Review:  This is a resident evil game to must have on any DS. You Start eirther chris or jill, once you 
 get farther on game you get a rocket laucher that shoot out chainsaw and blows up. The game it 
 just like like on the PS but the touch screen you use knife and stab zombies balls off. After you 
 beat the game theirs a mini game called master of knifing. Then you unlock new charaters to use 
 on a new game. Overall this game must buy buy buy buy buy. If you are a true resident evil fan 
 then buy this game man buy buy buy. To proof resident evil is a must buy let me down results.
  
  Sound: like RE3 the voice act is little crapping you dont see mouth moving, but the gun shots 
 are good, zombies moning is creeping.
  
  Graphics: Same as PS
  
  Game play: theres more than 10 weapons, alots of zombies, good & same boss battles, you can chosse 
 more than 2 people & storyline is awesome.
  
  Overall: A perfect 10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Soulreavercross
Rating: 5.5
Date: Feb 7, 2006 3:50 pm PT
Review:  Capcom has exhausted everything from the original Resident Evil, from Resident Evil: Dual Shock, 
 to the most recent remake of Resident Evil, Resident Evil Remake on the Nintendo Game Cube. Capcom 
 has once again used the classical game in yet another release! Resident Evil Deadly silence is 
 a straight direct port of Resident Evil that was released way back in 1996 plus a few new exclusive 
 bonuses thanks to the Nintendo DS.
  
  Graphical presentation isnt everything, this is a Nintendo DS, not a Sony PSP, and the graphics 
 look identical to that of its Playstation counterpart however, so parts do look a bit grainy and 
 washed out, which is bad. Now dont get me wrong, the graphics DO look good on the Nintendo DS 
 with its pre-rendered backgrounds however you would expect a little more from your games this day 
 in age. The Nintendo DS isnt that powerful graphically, so generally speaking, it looks good and 
 since its pocket sized, you will barely notice the graphics.
  
  The tank controls have returned, please not this is not Resident Evil 4 the gameplay is rather 
 awkward and chunky at first, but once you get accustomed it, it will be a breeze for you. Pressing 
 up will always move your character forward, despite your location on screen, holding left or right, 
 will rotate your character. The action in the game is rather good. You will look forward to blowing 
 off zombie heads and looking at the pixilated blood gush out.
  
  This is a survival horror game, so dont go blasting everything that moves. Health and ammo are 
 scarce and must be used only when you absolute need too. If you are careless, you will run out 
 of supplies and you have to restart your game. You also carry limited items however boxes are located 
 all over the game so you can deposit your extra stuff and retrieve them when needed. You have limited 
 saves in this game also, just like all other Resident Evil games (except Resident Evil 4) . You 
 locate ink ribbons and use them at typewriters. While some people may not like this, it is the 
 nature of most survival horror games however it is a portable game and it should have had a quick 
 save ability at least. You play as two characters in the story mode. The gameplay and storyline 
 is somewhat similar, however you will want to try out both characters because the game will be 
 addictive and you may want to know each of their scenarios. Plus there are several endings for 
 a single player and lots of unlockables (including more players for multiplayer mode, mentioned 
 later on) 
  
  You play in the bottom screen. The top screen is a very legible and needed map so you will always 
 know where you are, where you are going and keep track of your location. This is a great advantage 
 of having two screens. Because as we all may know, some games will have us going continuously into 
 the games menu, to check the map for your location. Another function of the top screen is, when 
 you are injured, it will flash, signaling to you that you need to heal yourself. This is another 
 great and creative advantage of having two screens.
  
  Resident Evil DS features a classic mode which is identical to the 1996 classical Resident Evil 
 game and the new exclusive rebirth mode which add some new experiences to the player, and a Wi-Fi 
 mode where up to four players can play together and either compete against one another or play 
 co-operatively through several different areas
  
  The audio in the game is fully intact and is the exact same as the Playstation game. Everything, 
 from the sound of footsteps from you and enemies, to the eerie music and moans of zombies, to the 
 horrible voice acting
  
  The gameplay is pretty simple once you are accustomed to it, you will blast zombies and various 
 mutations and solve the in game puzzles and complete this game in around 5 hours. Capcom has prostituted 
 this game and if youve never played it before, this is your chance to get it on a next generation 
 console. If you own a Playstation or Playstation 2, go and but the classical 1996 Resident Evil 
 & if you have a Game Cube go and buy the really superb Remake of Resident Evil for that console 
 because this game isnt really worth it for someone who have mastered the 1996 Resident Evil and 
 the Resident Evil Remake
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Nico4
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 7, 2006 5:12 am PT
Review:  Arent we done with those ports of Resident Evil 1 yet? i mean, since RE1 was released for PSone 
 in 1996 the game had been ported to the PC, Sega Saturn, GBC (it was canceled however) and Gamecube 
 which where a remake, so now people must be tired of all those RE1 ports but Capcom dosnt think 
 so by releasing RE1on the DS under the name RE DS (Deadly Silence) . Note: this review will only 
 focus on the changes on the DS version
  The game follows the story of the PSone version, mystrious murders have taken place in Raccoon 
 City, the local police force R. P. D sends out S. T. A. R. S (Special Tactics And Rescue Squad) Bravo 
 Team in the forest to invastigate, however the lose contact with them and so they decide to send 
 in the S. T. A. R. S Alpha Team out in the forest to find the missing Bravo people however as they 
 land they are attacked by some kind of monsters and escapes into a nearby mansion however they 
 discover that the mansion is full of zombies! now the surviving S. T. A. R. S members must survive 
 this nightmare while finding the Bravo people and solve this mystery.
  
  As in the PSone version you can chose between 2 characters: Jill Valentine and Chris Redfield both 
 character have driffent abilites like: Jill can hold 8 items and shes weak and Chris is stronger 
 than Jill but he can only hold 6 items, in theroy Jill is the easiest character to play as since 
 she can hold more items than Chris, however they both have to solve the same puzzles
  and gets the same items, however the story is a little driffent so that leaves some replay valve.
 
  
  The DS version adds 3 modes: Classic mode, Rebirth mode and Wi-Fi multiplayer. The classic mode 
 is the orginial PSone version with no changes, classic mode holds up pretty well as those the other 
 modes. Rebirth mode it the DS version with added puzzles traps and the RE4 like game which enbles 
 you to instantly switch to a knife during the game and reload during a fight also it shows you 
 how much ammo you have left and thats a good thing since you always had to guees how much ammo 
 you had left in the PSone version. The new puzzles are also good because not only are they pretty 
 well thought (well some of them) but they also requries 
  you to use the touch screen which works very well but they do feel a bit taged, also theres a 
 mastering of knifing mini-game in this mini game youll switch to first-person and your only armed 
 with a knife, so you must kill some monsters with the knife and it might be a little easy since 
 you cant move. in the multiplayer mode you can play with up to 4 people in a deathmatch like where 
 4 players compete to see who can kill most zombies thereby gaing points, a racing mode where players 
 must get from start to finish as quickly as possible, and a co-op where players have to get from 
 start to finish also players will have to find keys and solve puzzles so it feels like the Outbreak 
 series with its online multiplayer (well except you cant tell comands like in Outbreak but that 
 would be a useless feature) . In multiplayer you can play as various characters from the single 
 player game like: Jill, Chris, Barry and Wesker and there are 3 levels, the only minus in the multiplayer 
 mode is that you cant see the players your playing with, also if you want to play it with your 
 friends theyll need a copy of the game each and thats not good since most of the DS games allows 
 multiplayer with people who dont have the game (like Mario Kart DS) otherwise the multiplayer 
 is a nice extra.
  
  All of the music and sound effects are translated over to the DS version and they sound just as 
 the PSone version does, the voice acting and dialogue is pretty bad but its fun to see its translated 
 fully into the game.
  
  The graphics looks a bit washed out and theres isnt as much detail as you want but otherwise 
 the graphics are good.
  
  The game is about 6-7 hours on your first playthough with both characters so that leaves a total 
 of 12-14 hours, also theres unlockble characters for the multiplayer, theres some events that 
 will happen on your second through and theres a couple of endings so there is defently some replay 
 valve.
  
  REDS is a great game and this port is also very good, if your a old or new RE fan you should buy 
 this game, if your a new RE fan and started with RE4 then you probaly should get this to see how 
 it all began and what the fuss was about, if your a hardcore RE fans you might only get this because 
 of the extras, but otherwise this is a good port its better than the other RE ports Capcom made 
 so its a good game. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
