-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Retro Game Challenge
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/ds/action/gamecentercx/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 A good variety of games and challenges.
 Unusual, well-executed premise.
 Great attention to detail.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 A few games are total rehashes of other games.
 Captures some of the flaws of classic games along with their charms.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Feb  6, 2009
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 7.5
Critic Score: 8.1, 21 Review (s)
User Score: 8.6, 60 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Xseed Games
Developer: Bandai Namco Games
Genre: Action
Date: Feb 10, 2009
ESRB: Everyone

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
The charms, variety, and authenticity of this unusual compilation of 8-bit-style games help it shine 
 in spite of some flaws. 

  Video game nostalgia has been packaged and sold in a myriad of forms, but you've never played a 
 throwback to the 8-bit era quite like Retro Game Challenge. It's an unusual concept that succeeds 
 at feeling fresh and delightfully dated at the same time, and if you're old enough to remember 
 the games of those bygone days, or you just have an appreciation for games from a simpler time 
 you'll find a lot to like in this compilation of 8-bit games.  

           Game Master Arino can't hack it in the games of today, and he takes his failure out on 
 you.      

  Retro Game Challenge bears the license of a Japanese TV show called  Retro Game Master , but you 
 don't need any familiarity with the program to appreciate the game. When you start the game, you're 
 confronted by the bitter Game Master Arino, whose desire to dominate others in video games is matched 
 only by his ineptitude at modern games. To get the best of you, he sends you back in time to his 
 own living room in the 1980s and challenges you to complete a series of 8-bit game contests. You 
 quickly meet the young Arino, who only needs to know that you love games to immediately consider 
 you a close friend with whom he can spend hours in front of the TV. It's a wonderfully bizarre 
 setup that lends itself to many great moments as the young, innocent Arino cheers you on in your 
 quest to defeat his older, nastier self.  

  The games you'll play on young Arino's unnamed console aren't licensed but rather originals meant 
 to capture the look and feel of games of the mid to late '80s, and they succeed very well. For 
 each game, you're given a sequence of four challenges that typically start out very simple and 
 get progressively more difficult, though they never approach the staggering difficulty of many 
 actual 8-bit games. The challenges range from standard stuff like achieving a certain score or 
 passing a certain level, to more unusual tasks, like getting through a specific level without using 
 any ninja stars, or completing two laps around a track without drifting (which isn't as easy as 
 it sounds) . By constantly changing up your goals, the challenges alter how you approach the games 
 and help to keep things interesting. Additionally, in a really great touch, young Arino is constantly 
 buying game magazines that you can peruse at your leisure. They're crammed with all kinds of tips 
 and tricks, such as high score strategies, secret codes you can input for extra lives, stage select 
 options, invincibility cheats, and other benefits you can exploit to help you conquer Arino's challenges. 

  You'll start off with Cosmic Gate, a space shooter modeled closely on Galaga. Its straightforward 
 insect-zapping gameplay is engaging despite its age, at least in the short bursts you'll spend 
 with the game to conquer Arino's challenges. From there you'll move on to Robot Ninja Haggle Man, 
 a charming side-scrolling action game in which you must defeat rooms full of swarming enemies with 
 ninja stars, swinging doors, and, of course, head stomps, on a valiant quest to rescue a kidnapped 
 princess. Then comes Rally King, a speedy top-down racing game with a fun drifting mechanic. This 
 is followed by Star Prince, an exciting, frenetic thumb-buster of a vertical-scrolling space shooter. 
 Conveniently, a controller with a built-in rapid-fire function (no doubt inspired by the NES Advantage 
 joystick) is made available in-game not long after the release of Star Prince, so you can use that 
 to spare your thumb if you're not hardcore enough to pound the button yourself.  

           Behold the awesome graphical detail of Robot Ninja Haggle Man!      

  Unfortunately, 
 the variety of gameplay styles that kept the action compelling until this point goes out the window 
 here for a bit, as your next two games are rehashes of earlier games and do little to differentiate 
 themselves from their predecessors. There's Rally King SP, a special edition of Rally King that 
 has some different track layouts but is otherwise identical to the original. And then there's Robot 
 Ninja Haggle Man 2, which tosses you into bigger rooms with more enemies but does nothing else 
 to advance the gameplay.  

  Thankfully, Retro Game Challenge saves the two most elaborate games for last. Guadia Quest, a surprisingly 
 involved role-playing game in the vein of Dragon Warrior, is the game whose challenges will take 
 the most time to complete. Guadia Quest mercifully condenses the level grind of the games that 
 inspired it into a considerably faster process, but in every other regard it looks and feels like 
 a very authentic late-'80s console RPG. While your characters will earn new spells and become more 
 powerful at a very rapid pace, you'll also face extremely frequent random encounters with monsters 
 as you make your way across the world map or navigate the mazelike passages of the dungeons, and 
 there's no fancy automap feature to help you. Even back in the day, frequent random encounters 
 could be something of a chore, but the constant development of your characters here makes those 
 battles feel tangibly rewarding, and the turn-based combat moves along very quickly. Finally, there's 
 Robot Ninja Haggle Man 3, a complete departure from the earlier games in the series that takes 
 the bulk of its inspiration from the NES Ninja Gaiden games, though the level designs aren't linear 
 and you'll have to do a fair bit of exploring to find the boss of each area. The open levels are 
 both authentic, recalling games like Metroid, and somewhat frustrating. There's a good reason games 
 today almost never drop you into levels without providing any indication of which way to go. Still, 
 the action is enjoyable, and it's made more varied and interesting by the gears you'll find and 
 purchase throughout the game, which Haggle Man can equip to improve his abilities.  

  Visually, the games within the game are spot-on in capturing the look of state-of-the-art computer 
 entertainment in the 1980s, and while not a great deal happens on the bottom screen, the depiction 
 of you and Arino sitting on the floor in front of his television as you while away the hours, controller 
 in hand, is adorable. The sound is equally impressive. There are plenty of catchy tunes in the 
 games, and Arino's surprisingly varied and appropriate reactions to your successes and failures 
 help to create the sense that you really are playing these games with a friend sitting next to 
 you, cheering you on.  

           The sense of speed in Rally King will blow you away!      

  After you complete the 
 four basic challenges for a game, it becomes available in Freeplay mode, which keeps track of everything, 
 from your high score to the number of times you've pressed the B button, though when you play the 
 games on their own, they don't stand up quite as well as they do within the context of Arino's 
 challenges. Retro Game Challenge is a strange offering, to be sure. Through one download service 
 or another, most people have available to them many of the games of the 1980s that inspired this 
 game's collection. But the story mode makes this something more than just a compilation of retro-style 
 games. It makes it an endearing tribute to games of that era and the experience of playing them 
 and enjoying them with friends. It's appropriate that Game Master Arino's first act is to turn 
 you into a kid. While the games here have their flaws, the kid in you who once loved 8-bit games 
 will be won over by the charms of this knowing homage to their glory days.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (11 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: CazmoV
Rating: 8
Date: Apr 18, 2009 1:36 am PT
Review:  This game has masses of potential to be a perfect game. You are sent back in time to a teenage 
 boy's house in the 80's, where you must complete challenges on the newest games of that time. A 
 crazy game master (which is that boy when he is older) tests your gaming abillity by starting you 
 off with one or two simple challenges, but they will get harder as they go on. By the way, none 
 of the games included in the game are real, they were all influenced by NES games.
  Your first game is a shoot 'em up called Cosmic Gate, very similar to games such as Galaga. You 
 simply shoot all the alien things that come towards you for points, and also shoot asteroids in 
 bonus stages. The game is really great. 
  I won't spoil the games too much for you, but there is a full RPG (which I do NOT like much at 
 all) , some platformers, another shoot em up and a great racing game.
  The strong points of Retro Game Challenge are the racing game and the shoot 'em ups. However, I 
 really didn't like the RPG much. Despite being a huge fan of RPG's, this Final Fantasy influenced 
 RPG could be good, however it doesn't fit in well with the other games, which are quick, simple 
 and don't take too much time. However this, being an RPG of course, took a lot longer, and I found 
 it pretty hard at times to the point that I got bored of it and stopped playing RGC. 
  Beside the games, there are some really cool features such as the magazines. You can browse through 
 realistic looking gaming magazines that your friend has bought, which contain gossip on the next 
 games you will unlock, as well as hints and cheats for the current games.
  And that brings me to one last down side. The cheats. Sure, you don't HAVE to use them, however 
 they are an official part of the game. Therefore it's like not using a power-up in Mario. Basically, 
 they make the game you use the cheat on ridiculously easy, for example the "invinsible" cheat, 
 and ones on the platformer that, when you die, allows you to carry on playing from where you were 
 before.
  Overall, this is a really good game, up until the RPG where you just want to skip it. But you can't. 
 However, that could just be my dislike of the game, so don't take my word for it. But overall, 
 this is a must have for any game who loves a bit of retro gaming. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Pierst179
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 11, 2009 11:27 am PT
Review:  Modern games are way too easy, games are getting shorter by the hour and non-multiplayer games 
 that have a high replay value are very rare, those are some common complaints gamers who have been 
 gaming for a long time utter against current generation titles. While some of those sentences may 
 look like an old-school gamer's meaningless and annoying rant to show new players how games in 
 the past were fairly superior, a few of those sentences actually hold some degree of truth.
  
  If you have ever agreed with any of those complaints, Retro Game Challenge will make you a 
 happier and less grumpy person, for inside the little DS cartridge you will find a very long experience, 
 with enough replay value to keep you playing until the Nintendo DS and PSP become old-school systems 
 and a level of challenge that can be so high you will wonder where all those easy as pie games 
 have gone.
  
  The game starts as a modern gamer is suddenly challenge by a lunatic man on TV. Demon Arino is 
 his name and he transports you to the past where you meet his younger self at his house. There 
 you will play games of the eighties on his system while young Arino cheers for you. Indeed the 
 storyline is a lacking aspect of the game, but games like Donkey Kong and Galaga never needed a 
 deep compelling plot to get us going, did they?
  
  Demon Arino will present you with four different challenges for each of the eight retro games you 
 will play. After you have completed the four challenges he throws at you, time will advance a new 
 hyped game will be released, young Arino will purchase the cartridge and you will have another 
 four juicy challenges to tackle. This cycle repeats itself until the game reaches its end.
  
  A very interesting detail about the eight retro games is that each one of them heavily borrows 
 from a famous game of the eighties. The first retro game you will play will be Cosmic Gate which 
 is nothing but a slightly different version of Galaga, other titles make references and homage 
 to games like Dragon Quest and Ninja Gaiden. This really adds to the value of the game because 
 it is nice not only to try to catch the references but also to remember the amazing time you had 
 with those old titles on your childhood.
  
  The challenges for each game vary from ridiculously simple such as starting the race with a boost 
 on Rally King, to harder ordeals like getting a certain amount of points on Cosmic Gate or reaching 
 a certain level. However, all of them provide a lot of fun and after you complete the first challenge 
 it will be extremely hard to put the game down until you have completely cleared the set of challenges.
 
  
  Even though all games are deeply influenced by already known titles they still manage to be extremely 
 engaging and original. All of them have simple and responsive controls that will never let you 
 down, as one would expect from such a game, all you will use is the Nintendo DS' D-pad and the 
 X, Y, A and B buttons to perform a variety of actions.
  
  Everything works so perfectly well that the four challenges will never be enough for players. That 
 is why the addition of a Free Play Mode was such a wise move by the developers. While on the regular 
 challenge-beating mode the game will be turned off whenever you complete your task, therefore stopping 
 your further advance. On Free Play you get to experience the games just as if you were on a regular 
 old-school system, with a limit of lives and many levels to beat.
  
  That is where Retro Game Challenge gets its amazing replay value from, because completing the challenges 
 will only take you five hours but the game makes you want to play it even after you have completed 
 its main quest, so you will certainly be coming back to improve scores, beat games and enjoy more 
 retro goodness.
  
  This is where a small flaw of the game is revealed, the lack of online leaderboards for players 
 to upload their best scores. Everybody knows how high scores are important on games like these 
 and if the developers had added leaderboards things could be much better than they actually are. 
 However, such a shortcoming does not affect the overall experience of the game, since the lack 
 of online features never took the fun away from games like Pacman.
  
  The developers of Retro Game Challenge made sure no aspects of gaming on the eighties were forgotten 
 so they added some tiny details that enrich the game. While you are going through the main quest 
 young Arino constantly buys gaming magazines, these virtual journals bring reviews of recently 
 released games that you are playing and upcoming hyped games, they even go as far as having breaking 
 news on game delays and interviews with the developers. Another tiny but noteworthy detail is that 
 whenever a game refuses to work your friend advises you to blow the cartridge, therefore magically 
 making the game run perfectly. Moments like these will surely bring a big smile to your face.
 
  
  When it comes to the technical aspects of the game, you pretty much already know what to expect. 
 The game doesn't push the hardware of the system close to its limit; in fact it gets pretty far 
 from doing it. This applies to both the truly 8-bit graphics and the beeps that when joined form 
 a very good soundtrack with catchy tunes. This will obviously be a let down to younger players, 
 who have never touched an arcade machine and never played a NES, but Retro Game Challenge caters 
 to old-school gamers and those will be extremely satisfied.
  
  Overall Retro Game Challenge shows the Nintendo DS at its finest, not hardware-wise though. It 
 shows how much originality the constant great releases for the platform have had, and it joins 
 the group of amazing titles for the platform. For youngsters it might not be the most exciting 
 game in the world, even though some of them may end up being interested in the past of video-games 
 due to the well crafted design of Retro Game Challenge. Old-school gamers, though, and anyone who 
 gets very happy whenever they finally get that old cartridge to work on a dusty NES will surely 
 enjoy this game a lot.
  
  Actual Score: 9.3 
::::::

::::::
UserName: keithburgun
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 11, 2009 1:30 am PT
Review:  Wow. This game needs to get way more attention. On the face of it, it's essentially a series of 
 eight games, all with 8-bit level graphics, sound and controls - but it's really so much more than 
 that. Read any other review for specifics - the mechanics and design of the games are all brilliant 
 and solid as hell - but this game has taught me some even more important things.
  
  This game has pointed out to me that the reason why people today are playing "Halo 3" instead of 
 "Castlevania 3" and "God of War" instead of "Gradius" is not because the new games are better. 
 It's because today, we demand meta-game. Whether it be community, achievements, unlocks, or whatever 
 else, we have come to expect that level of meta-game and quickly move on when it's not there. That 
 drive to unlock a new weapon - to beat the guy who was trash talking you on Live - that drive to 
 play World of WarCraft at all - it's all meta-game drives. The feeling that you are "advancing" 
 in a way beyond the core mechanics of the game. Now, I love Galaga, but unless I have a bunch of 
 friends over who all want to play it, I never play it. Retro Game Challenge adds this meta element 
 to its brilliant 8 bit games (one of which is VERY MUCH like Galaga) , and all the sudden I am sucked 
 in. So the lesson here is, if you re-release say, Castlevanias 1-3 together in a package, but add 
 tons of great metagame and community, people will go nuts over it. That's what they should be doing 
 with the live arcade and wiiware stuff.
  
  
  
  Read my full review (including a much needed stab at idiotic Gamespot editors) here: www. expensiveplanetarium. com
 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: codezer0
Rating: 8
Date: Feb 27, 2009 1:20 pm PT
Review:  If you're like me and remember fondly the days when magazines like Nintendo Power were your primary 
 resource of gameplay information, and in which the idea of a single cartridge even holding more 
 than one game in it at a time was considered staggeringly huge, then you can stop reading now and 
 go buy this.
  
  For those of you who can't be bothered to play anything that doesn't have 64xAA and 128xAF and 
 normal/bump/texture/light mapping out the yin-yang, move along. Nothing to see here.
  
  The graphics are a curious mix between the retro 3D embodiment of Game Master Arino whom issues 
 your challenges, and the decidedly 2D of the games which the challenges are issued for. Down on 
 the bottom screen, you'll see yourself and a younger, more innocent Arino, whom is happy enough 
 to help you defeat his nastier, older self.
  
  Controls are simple, matching the old-school nature of the games played. And the novelty of the 
 magazines and being able to read the manuals for the individual games helps provide in-game hints 
 in the ways before the internet was widely available, and sites like this one didn't exist. This 
 was a rather novel way of helping struggling players in-game and also giving a way to refresh your 
 memory on how they are played.
  
  There's really not much else to say. First impressions for this retro player are good, and those 
 who enjoy the quality and charm of them would do well to get it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Asagea_888
Rating: 9.5
Date: Feb 19, 2009 10:13 pm PT
Review:  I didn't quite know what to expect coming into this one. Seduced by the lure of fake Nintendo games, 
 I thought it best to give it a shot. What an experience it turned out to be. Retro Game Challenge 
 is a throwback to the good old days of 8-bit yesteryear, made more intriguing by the fact that 
 none of these 8-bit games even exist. 
  
  The story goes like this; Game Master Arino, one of the most devious villains ever in video game 
 history, thrusts you back to the golden age of the 1980s as a young kid and forces you to take 
 part in several challenges that span across multiple, 8-bit video games. Strangely enough, a young 
 Arino is at your side -- providing counsel and pre-pubescent banter befitting of a hyper-active kid 
 with the Nintendo every other kid wants. You'd better hope to have your retro, gamer fingers ready 
 because beating these games and satisfying the Game Master's dubious challenges therein are your 
 only ticket back home.
  
  I'm certainly not suggesting that playing these games is an arduous task. Far from it. In retrospect, 
 you'll find quite a bit of enjoyment with some of the greatest 8-bit titles you've never played. 
 Cosmic Gate is an endearing Galaga knockoff in every sense of the term. Super Robot Haggle Man's 
 a quirky platformer. Rally King is a top-down, generic racer. And Star Prince prides itself as 
 being a worthy progenitor of Blazing Lazers. And those aren't the only games you'll get to play -- as 
 you make progress, you will unlock a Dragon Quest-style role-playing game, and the third title 
 in the super-popular Robot Haggle Man series.
  
  Retro Game Challenge makes every effort in making the player feel like they're living in the 80s. 
 Arino will periodically purchase game magazines (they're called GameFan interestingly enough, and 
 that was actually a game magazine that ran publications during the early and mid 90s) filled with 
 cheat codes (real gamers don't cheat) , strategies, and a bit of humorous here-say common in many 
 publications. (You might get a chuckle out of some rather tongue-in-cheek suggestive references -- like 
 Hugh Jass and I. P. Freely. Get it?) 
  
  The games themselves are unilaterally 8-bit in their presentation. And, for the most part, they 
 play and control quite well. The shooting games will force you to do without rapid fire in the 
 beginning until Arino gets a rapid-fire controller for you to use. As you play the games, the young 
 Arino will cheer you on and react to how you're playing. ("Whoa!", "Aww, maaaaan!") That voice work 
 is done well, and it actually feels like you have a friend at your side watching you play. Depending 
 on how you feel about that, it can be construed as a welcome addition or a major headache. Also, 
 each game can be unlocked and played at any time under the Freeplay option to be enjoyed to your 
 heart's content. I find myself playing Star Prince an awful lot because I am a sucker for old-school 
 shooters.
  
  Overall, Retro Game Challenge is a quirky yet unique experience. It's not so much the thought of 
 just playing old school 8-bit games, but rather, it is as much an exercise of your imagination 
 as it is your gaming trigger finger. If you're an enthusiast for old games like I am, you will 
 definately appreciate this package. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MikauBodom
Rating: 9.5
Date: Feb 16, 2009 4:16 pm PT
Review:  When I knew that "Game Center CX" was going to have an English version, I was decided to play the 
 game, hoping for a true classic 8-bit experience. I wasn't disappointed a bit, even the magazines 
 are just like those we bought to get informed about new games and tips (there was no Gamespot nor 
 GameFaqs those days) .
  Let's analyze every aspect of the game:
  
  Graphics (9/10) :
  
  Games are 8-bit inspired, so don't look for awesome 3-D or flashy effects while playing, just practical 
 graphics. In my opinion they are very artistic and mimic perfectly those of the NES.
  On the other hand, the "outside games" graphics are correct, even good for DS standards and Game 
 Master Arino's head is just hilarious.
  
  Sound (9/10) :
  
  I almost cried when I heard Rally King's theme. Nostalgic music with a "beep" style which bring 
 fond memories of the NES days, each theme song adequates perfectly to the game. Special mention 
 to Star Prince and Guadia Quest themes. Sound effects are also like in 8-bit consoles, and some 
 are even recognized from those 8-bit games (try finding which ones)
  
  Story (8/10) :
  
  The story is simple but original, a frustrated middle-aged dude has thrown you back in the 80's 
 to play his challenges with a young version of himself watching as you play. You feel pretty identified 
 with the young Arino, he talks like a true videogamer child of the time, even telling you that 
 he wants to play games forever and such child-like things. Also, the detail of his mother telling 
 him not to play so much videogames is simply awesome.
  
  Gameplay (10/10) :
  
  Just great, it's like being again a child playing NES in your living room after school. Every game 
 has that special touch which made NES classics so great. Even the smallest details are there, like 
 the "between-stages-screens",  the confirming beep when a cheat 
 is input successfully and even the "The End" or "Congratulations, Happy ending" ending screens. Every 
 game is entertaining in his own way, and the challenges make you want to play more and more to 
 see what will come next. Maybe the best game is Guadia Quest, but that's just because I love classic 
 RPGs :P
  The detail of the magazines is just sick, they even included a editor-in-chief page with silly 
 jokes, just like the real thing.
  
  Control (10/10) :
  Controls are easy to learn but difficult to master if you didn't play any NES games similar to 
 these (not my case) . Control just respond as expected from an 8-bit game and they even emulate that 
 "clumsy feeling" without being a nuisance for enjoying the games.
  
  Duration & Difficulty (7/10)
  
  If you really like the game and have enough skill you'll finish 
 all the challenges pretty fast, leaving you wanting more. Then there is the "freeplay" mode, where 
 you can finish each game, get the best score you can and it keeps track of almost everything you 
 do, so it's entertaining and challenging to unlock everything in every game. Difficult depends on 
 your raw skill in every game, but old-school gamers shouldn't have much trouble completing most 
 of the game.
  Sadly, the game lacks any multiplayer options, it would be nice a wi-fi feature to download new 
 challenges for each game or to get scoreboards on-line.
  
  Veredict: 9.5/10
  
  Retro Game Challenge will make you remember why you love gaming and why you play games every day 
 since you were a child. The only flaws are the lack of a multiplayer option or a scoreboard online 
 and that you'll want more challenges after finishing the game (btw you can bet some crazy stuff 
 with your friends, like scores or such) .
  I await some kind of sequel, but it would be a true surprise since this game was released quite 
 long ago in Japan. Maybe if it sells well in the US market the developers will think about a sequel.
 
  In conclusion: Buy it ASAP, you won't regret it. A must-have for the NDS
  
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: dzimm
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 14, 2009 8:40 pm PT
Review:  Ah, the good ol' days, when simple sprites and "bleep" and "bloop" sound effects were as good as 
 it got, when nobody complained about spending top-dollar on a platforming game that could be beaten 
 in 30-minutes, when adding new levels and an increased difficulty but recycling everything else 
 was enough to call a game a full-blown sequel, when magazines were the best -- if not the only 
 -- source of gaming news.
  
  If the above paragraph made you all warm and fuzzy inside then you need to buy a copy of Retro 
 Game Challenge. Now. The games in this collection are easily as good as anything released in the 
 years they're paying tribute to and are so authentic that you'll swear you remember playing them 
 as a kid. The visuals, sound effects, even the slowdown when there are dozens of sprites on the 
 screen, are all recreated with pitch perfect accuracy.
  
  But going beyond a mere game collection, Retro Game Challenge lets you relive the experience of 
 gaming in the 80's. You start off with one game, the Galaxian/Galaga-inspired Cosmic Gate, and 
 a set of 4 challenges to complete (beat stage 5, use a warp gate twice, destroy a giant asteroid, 
 and earn 200,000 points) . Once you've beaten all four challenges, a new game is "released" and 
 you are tasked with completing four more challenges, and so on until all 8 games are unlocked. 
 Once a game is unlocked it is available for play at any time in story mode or freeplay mode (and 
 these are COMPLETE games, not mini-games!) . Along the way, you get access to the fictional GameFan 
 magazine filled with previews of upcoming games (basically the games that you'll be unlocking) 
 and cheats and hints that will help you beat the current set of challenges. One nice touch: each 
 game is given its own cartridge cover art and in-game manual.
  
  This is a fun and novel approach because it helps build up anticipation for each new "release". 
 One month, you'll see a rumor in GameFan magazine that Tomato is working on a follow-up to their 
 arcade hit Cosmic Gate. In the next issue, there will be more information along with a small screenshot. 
 Then they'll announce the release date, and finally the game is released for you to enjoy. When 
 you finally get your hands on a new game, there's a familiar sense of satisfaction because, in 
 way, you've been following it all along.
  
  Even after beating story mode, you'll want to hang onto this one since each of the 8 games has 
 all the same addictiveness and replayability of any 8-bit classic. For all intents and purposes, 
 this is a collection of classic games from the 80s that you missed the first time around. Developer 
 XSEED did more than just pay tribute to the classics; they created a classic themselves. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: zmarkz
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 13, 2009 9:16 am PT
Review:  This game is one of the better games to come out on the DS and I disagree with the low 7.5 rating 
 that gamespot gave it. You don't have to have grown up in the 80's to appreciate the creativity 
 that was used to put this game together. The story line is simple yet appealing. The games do a 
 very good job of rehashing the old-school style of play and keep you coming back. The challenges 
 are a freshness that keeps you going to the next game and the variety of games never gets stale. 
 The magazine shelf is a nice added touch as well. During the game you unlock new magazines that 
 are added to the shelf. They mimic a short version of the gamer mags from the 80's and house quite 
 a bit of info on the games you are playing, as well as games you have unlocked or games yet to 
 be unlocked. There are small articles on the games and even tips and cheats. Over all spending 
 $29.99 these days on a game can end up being very frustrating when you realize that the game sucks 
 and you could have picked up that other one you were looking at. Any way this game is cool and 
 when you have unlocked all the games on it your sure to have continued fun for days to come. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: thebvan
Rating: 8
Date: Feb 13, 2009 8:04 am PT
Review:  Retro Game Challenge is your classic "game with a sh*tload of other games in it". The whole concept 
 of the game is you are a little kid who must escape the 80's, via a GameMaster who has a weird 
 obsession of trapping you there in the 80's. I promise I wasn't on shrooms when I wrote that last 
 sentence, man.
  
  Anyways, you are given 4 challenges for each little game which resembles other popular games. I 
 thought of it like how at the store you can buy the real brand cereal, or the gigantic bag of cereal 
 by some copy-cat cereal for less. Although these games aren't necessarily worse than their original, 
 it's hard to just ignore the fact that they aren't the original versions of the game. Then again, 
 if your just looking forward to this game to have a ton of different games on your DS you'll probably 
 get over it quickly.
  
  I only got the chance to play the game for 2 hours or so today but I've enjoyed it. It's given 
 me a well needed break from constant amounts of Final Fantasy Tactics A2. I unlocked all the challenges 
 for the first game, and started working on the 2nd game. Both of them work fine and I only experienced 
 a hiccup on the Galaga-clone game when I had a screen full of enemies.
  
  One thing I have to say which kind of disappointed me was the complete abandonment of the touch 
 screen. I realize it's hard to implement the touch screen on games that were designed for arcades 
 over 20 years old but completely ignoring the screen just feels awkward. Again though, I'm being 
 nitpicky and these are relatively minor gripes.
  
  Retro Game Challenge does a good job for what it is. Having a bundle of games in a collection with 
 a bigger story behind it is a refreshing idea instead of just giving a list of classic games you 
 can instantly play out of the box. I would recommend this game if you like old school games and 
 like playing games on the go.
  
  But if your someone who's debating whether to get this game or the Sonic UGC (which probably narrows 
 it down to about 5 people in the world haha) , get the Sonic game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: org13
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 12, 2009 12:53 pm PT
Review:  First off if you think this is a game compilation you are sooo off.
  
  The premise is simple; you, the player, are sent back to the 80's by present-day Arino, where you 
 meet up with younger-age Arino, and the only way to return to your own world is by completing a 
 series of video game challenges. Okay, maybe not so simple, but the overall idea is a nostalgic 
 look back at the days of 8-bit gaming, when the Famicom (or NES for us Westerners) was the center 
 of our world and the only thing a kid needed.
  
  For Retro Game Challenge, eight different games have been created, games that look and feel like 
 titles you could have purchased and played back for the NES. You'll start off with Cosmic Gate, 
 a twist on the Galaga-style shooter, and by completing four challenges doled out to you by "Game 
 Master" Arino, you'll unlock the side-scrolling action title HaggleMan. From there, another four 
 challenges separate you from the next "classic" game, and so on. What's fun to see is the extent 
 to which these new-yet-retro titles has been crafted, as each not only has a visual cartridge complete 
 with label art, but also a virtual manual that can be thumbed through should you get stuck in a 
 game. (Because, as we all know, real gamers never read the manual before playing.)
  
  I really enjoy this game and I can't put it down.
  
  I highly recommend it to everyone! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: usagi704
Rating: 8.5
Date: Apr 12, 2008 3:14 pm PT
Review:  Game Center CX: Arino no Chousenjou is based on the popular Japanese video game show, Game Center 
 CX. It stars comedian Shinya Arino who tries throughout an episode to complete a video game, typically 
 from the Famicom (NES) and Super Famicom (SNES) . Hilarious antics ensue when Arino reacts to his 
 defeats and triumphs over these typically difficult games.
  
  This DS game attempts to recreate the feeling of the 8-bit Nintendo days with eight games that 
 were specifically created for this title. All eight games have multiple influences from existing 
 games.
  
  PRESENTATION: 9.0
  Every effort was made to create the Famicom feel with these games and it shows. These games really 
 do look, sound, and feel like games that could have come out back in the 1980s. The whole game 
 is wrapped in a story of sorts that sees you being transported back to the 1980s along with Arino, 
 both of you as kids and being challenged by "Demon Arino" to complete specific tasks in each of 
 these games. It's safe to say that this game's concept is pretty crazy!
  
  SOUND: 8.5
  Famicom-esque music and sound effects largely permeate the game as you'd expect and most of it 
 is pretty good, but still short of being truly memorable.
  
  GAMEPLAY: 9.0
  Not only did the developers get the feel right, but the gameplay is also spot on with actual 8-bit 
 Nintendo games and the games are largely very fun. The main mode is where you will be tackling 
 the challenges Demon Arino gives you. Each game has four challenges that must be done in the order 
 assigned and once they are completed the next game will be unlocked and the current game completed 
 will be able to be played outside of the main mode in its entirety, complete with high score boards. 
 The challenges mostly consist of goals like 'Clear stage 5' in Cosmic Gate, 'Score 250,000 points' 
 in Star Prince, and 'Finish course 2 in under 2'28"' in Rally King SP. The game even gives you, 
 at intervals, game magazines of the time with helpful information about the games, cheat codes, 
 and more!
  
  LASTING APPEAL: 8.0
  It won't take most people too terribly long to complete the challenges and after that most of the 
 time spent will be trying to best your high scores.
  
  OVERALL: 8.5
  You don't need to know anything about the Game Center CX show to enjoy this game. The real requirement 
 to enjoying it is whether or not you are fond of 8-bit Nintendo games. If the answer is yes, then 
 pick this one up! 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
