-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Retro Atari Classics
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/ds/action/atariclassics/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 Sound effects are mostly accurate.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 Games are poorly redesigned.
 Control is often a mess.
 Remix graphics are poorly implemented.
 Requires multiple copies of the game for multiplayer.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Mar 23, 2005
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 4.5
Critic Score: 4.9, 24 Review (s)
User Score: 5.8, 295 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Atari
Developer: Taniko
Genre: Action
Date: Mar 16, 2005
ESRB: Everyone

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Retro Atari Classics is the sort of game that's unpleasing to every possible audience. 

  Retro Atari Classics may look like a standard collection of classic Atari arcade games, but in 
 reality, it's not your average compilation. The 10 games featured here have been redesigned in 
 an attempt to take advantage of the Nintendo DS's touch screen. The results are slightly mixed, 
 though the re-creations here still fall squarely into the "bad idea" category.  

          Warlords is a rad game, but the control suffers a bit here.     

  The games in this 
 collection read like a murderer's row of killer arcade classics. You'll find Warlords, Missile 
 Command, Centipede, Tempest, Pong, Breakout, Sprint, Gravitar, Asteroids, and Lunar Lander here. 
 The default way to play these games is in "original style," which mimics the graphics of the original 
 games. However, the gameplay has changed quite a bit in some cases.  

  Centipede is probably the biggest change, and it goes a long way to show that these games were 
 reprogrammed, rather than emulated. The spider movement is idiotic, and the centipedes themselves 
 don't behave quite right, either. Warlords doesn't add multiple fireballs to the game when the 
 four castles are destroyed. Missile Command automatically selects which firebase to launch missiles 
 from depending on where you're firing. The list goes on and on, and most of these changes really 
 hurt the nostalgic appeal of the overall package.  

  Control in these games is spotty at best. Each game has been designed to take advantage of the 
 Nintendo DS touch screen. Considering the analog nature of many of these games, you'll get more 
 refined control from the touch screen than you could with the D pad, but the control never feels 
 quite right. Missile Command makes the most sense, as the arcade trackball was replaced entirely 
 and now ABMs can be launched by touching the screen. In Warlords and Pong, lines are drawn on the 
 touch screen, and you must drag a control icon around on the lines to move your paddles. Tempest 
 puts a box on the screen that will move your crawling shiplike thing around when you drag it past 
 the box. But one full line across the screen isn't enough to make one full rotation in most levels, 
 so you're left repeatedly stabbing the screen like you were playing Pokemon Dash. Asteroids is... a 
 mess. For the most part, the control you get from the touch screen isn't refined enough to give 
 you the same level of control you might be used to from the arcades. This style gives all the games 
 a slightly more frantic feel, but it's also a frustrating way of doing things.  

          Lunar Lander gets fully iced-out in remix mode.     

  Once you get bored with "original 
 style," you can click over to remix mode. These versions of the game play and sound identically 
 to the other mode, but all of the graphics have been replaced by art from a few fairly prominent 
 graffiti artists. The result is reminiscent of those bootleg NES ROM hacks. But instead of getting 
 to see a Super Mario Bros. game with an all-naked cast, you get to see an MC Escher-like design 
 behind Asteroids and a square box with a man's face on it that replaces the satellites in Missile 
 Command. It's silly, and the artwork really isn't implemented very well. Both modes are playable 
 by multiple players, up to and including four-player support for Warlords, provided everyone has 
 his or her own copy of the game.  

  Retro Atari Classics is the sort of game that's unpleasing to every possible audience. The hardcore 
 retro fan base will scoff at the way these games have been shoddily reprogrammed. Fans of the graffiti 
 artists will wonder why all the artwork is so poorly used. And anyone looking for a fun DS game 
 will wonder how they got suckered into picking this one up. Do yourself a favor and don't be the 
 sucker.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (10 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: ApeOverlord
Rating: 5.3
Date: Apr 20, 2006 6:40 pm PT
Review:  This is by far the worst classic I've ever encountered. Within this piece of cr@p lays two delicate 
 pieces of corn that are actually worth playing. For starters, I'd like to say a few things about 
 my favorite games out of the selection:
  
  Pong: One of the most primitive games you'll ever see. (And I thought that the wheel was primitive) 
 It is basically like playing on a ping pong table. Two white rectangles are on both sides and they 
 act as the paddles, as they move the dot around. If you've ever played ping pong, then you'll know 
 what I'm talking about.
  
  Centipede: A family classic. You are this one insect that fires at this huge centipede. The main 
 objective is to shoot all the parts of the centipede to move on to the next level. 
  
  As far as the other games go, they are just broken. The movements are too sluggish and half the 
 time, I didn't know how to play some of those games. Anyways, it's not really worth spending $30 
 dollars on such a ramshackle collection. If you truly want pong and Centipede, then be my guest 
 and buy it. Otherwise, don't even bother. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DurhamNC
Rating: 7.5
Date: Apr 3, 2006 1:07 pm PT
Review:  So, you've picked up a Retro compilation. And your expectations are for what? A new spin on an 
 old game? An immersive graphical experience? A moving score? You've picked up the wrong cart. If 
 you were alive when Atari reigned supreme, if you can remember feeling jealous of friends who had 
 seemingly endless hours of fun with the Ataris they had at home while you were still playing with 
 He-Man, then this, my friend, is your cart. You can play the games in a supped-up way, with some 
 differnt (not nexessarily) better backgrounds, but why bother? These are simple games from a much 
 earlier time in video game history. Enjoy for what they are, as they are. They won't fill hours, 
 or even an hour, in your day, but they; re great fun on the bus or in a line-up, or for 10 minutes 
 on the couch. And, it's an inexpensive compilation to boot. It's only the compilation for you, 
 though, if retro is what you're into. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ErikWaters
Rating: 4.5
Date: Apr 3, 2006 11:36 am PT
Review:  What do you call a game that is a mixture of old school retro and remixed new school presentation? 
 Thats easy. Its called ten really old games slapped with a new coat of paint and sold at full 
 price. Another good name for it would be highly disappointing.
  
  Retro Atari Classics contains ten of Ataris best known games from days not many of the students 
 on campus can remember. While games like Breakout, Asteroids, Missile Command, and Centipede still 
 survive the test of time, the other games like Tempest and Sprint range from mediocre to just plain 
 awful in the gaming scheme nowadays.
  
  The biggest issue with Retro Atari Classics is the addition of touch screen capabilities that 
 the Nintendo DS uses to play games. Simple games like Pong play very well when using the DS stylus. 
 However playing a game that requires pinpoint accuracy, like Lunar Landing, is quite the frustrating 
 experience. Thanks to the wonky controls, the touch screen is near useless when trying to enjoy 
 these retro games.
  
  Another huge gripe is the whole remixed version of the classic games. Hiring some graffiti taggers 
 to redo some of the graphics and leaving the gameplay completely untouched is not remixing a game. 
 Thats simply called a visual overhaul, and thats exactly what these remixed games consist of. 
 
  
  Take the remixed version of Pong for example. Instead of the usual white line and white square 
 that jumps back and forth between paddles, they remixed it using a yellow line and a more circular 
 ball. Amazing isnt it?
  
  Besides the four or five really fun games included, there really isnt much left to have fun with. 
 A wireless multiplayer is included, but only three out of the ten games utilizes it. There arent 
 even any extra games or secrets to unlock when gamers are burnt out with the original ten games.
 
  
  The only reason to ever pick up and play this game is for the pure nostalgia that comes with playing 
 some of the very games that made and matured the video game industry into what it is today. If 
 it were not for these games, who knows what a lot of college students today would be doing instead 
 of capping their friends in Halo 2 or burning rubber in Gran Turismo 4. 
  
  So unless given Retro Atari Classics as a gift or found abandoned on the side of the street, 
 steer clear of spending hard-earned cash for this game.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Widger5000
Rating: 6.8
Date: Feb 8, 2006 4:16 pm PT
Review:  I got this game for 10 bucks at circuit city and it isn't that great... But i'm glad I bought it 
 becuase that is the best priced game I ever bought. The games uses all the capabilities of the 
 DS; touch screen, and dual screen. I like it... It is better than polarium, and nintendogs... Yet 
 dosn't even come close to MK and mario and luigi. All-in-All I'd buy it again. It is an avarage 
 game for an incredible price. If I were a old-school gamer i'd get this game and If I were a DS-lover 
 I would to. If you are into XBOX 360 and newer stuff... I would'nt recommend this game. Not Bad. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dodgersrock
Rating: 1.3
Date: Dec 17, 2005 10:37 pm PT
Review:  My friend once said to me,  If you ever get Retro Atari Classics I will kill you with your DS. 
 So I ended up getting it for my birthday from my aunt. This game is here now and forever at the 
 bottom of my list forever! There is nothing worse than this game, yet it is still in my collection. 
 Dont ever think of buying this game for yourself or any one you know, its about as bad as being 
 hit with an ugly stick. The whole game has no point but to play old Atari games, with no improvement 
 of sound, graphics, or game play. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: EASPORTSGC
Rating: 9.1
Date: Dec 14, 2005 1:36 pm PT
Review:  RAC is a game that you can play virtually anytime once you get the hang of it. The game includes 
 10 different games- Asteroids, Breakout, Caterpillar, Missle Command, Lunar Lander, Pong, Warlords, 
 Tempest, Gravitar, and Sprint. Each game comes with the original classic mode. It also comes with 
 a remix mode, where it is redone with today's top graphitti artists (but I've never heard of them 
 until I played the game.) On some the remix mode can actually make gameplay easier (Gravitar) , 
 but some it just becomes annoying, making gameplay harder (Tempest, Breakout) , and sometimes it 
 is just fun to see little aliens with a strawberry nose as the king of your land in warlords.
 
  
  This game doesn't have much expansion but it is definitley worth buying, or at least giving it 
 a try. Not many games are as easy to pick up, play for 5 or 10 minutes while you're waiting at 
 the doctors office. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bartistocool
Rating: 4.9
Date: Dec 11, 2005 7:40 pm PT
Review:  This is a collection of Atari arcade games from the late 70s and early 80s set up to take advantage 
 of the dual screen and touch stylus of the Nintendo DS. The collection includes Centipede, Gravitar, 
 Lunar Lander, Missile Command, Pong, Sprint, Tempest, Warlords, Asteroids and Breakout. There is 
 wireless multiplayer off a single game on Pong, Sprint and Warlords. I could see where a four player 
 game of wireless warlords could be fun. Some of the controls were a bit tricky with the stylus 
 and it could have benefited from a controls option screen. Tempest needed to be more sensitive 
 to the touch. It is obvious that these games were ported rather than emulated.
  
  They also hired some "Urban" artists to remix and redesign the graphics of the game to add a rather 
 wacky contemporary feeling to the games. You can either play as the classic graphics or the remix 
 mode. It is slightly weird that they got the graphic designer behind Obey Giant to remix the graphics 
 to Missile Command. The sound and game play does not change in the remix mode. Asteroids Remix 
 looks particularly pop art.
  
  I can't believe they left out other cool classic Atari games like Gauntlet, Star Wars (the vector 
 3d game) and Marble Madness I mean Marble Madness would have been awesome on the touch screen and 
 Gauntlet would have ruled with wireless multiplayer off a single cart. I was left wanting more 
 and it seamed a bit light when it came to delivering a 70's arcade in my hand on das DS.
  
  This is pretty straight forward and is actually quite a bit of fun and I could see how this would 
 be fun to play if you don't have a lot of time to play on your hands. I actually can't wait to 
 see Namco Museum Battle Collection on PSP. Most of the games in Retro Atari Classics are not just 
 old but pretty ancient. It has Wifi pong for Mario's sake! 
  
  This collection is not going to win in any the youngsters that were raised on Quake 3 but this 
 is a fun but quick trip back in the video game time machine for the Nintendo DS gamer retro hipsters 
 in their 30s. It was not bad but it could have been better.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Reptile711
Rating: 3.5
Date: Mar 24, 2005 3:04 pm PT
Review:  Retro Atari classics is just silly! I'd rather play it on my GBA. It would probably look better. 
 You know why? Becuz this junk is GBA graphics! I applaud Atari and Taniko for making an effort 
 for a good DS game, but obviously, they did not try hard enough. The games are slapstick, half-baked 
 games that were played more than 15 years ago. Does anyone really want to play a game that doesn't 
 exceed DS standards? This is just ridiculous. The games are fun, yet they suffer from poor gameplay. 
 This is not a game, this is complilation of rehashes.
  
  Gameplay: This is sickening. I mean, there practically is no gameplay in some games... Pong? No... 
 This has gone to far. DS is not suited to play "Pong" on this seemingly potential portable system.
 
  
  Graphics: These graphics are from SNES and NES! Including Atari 2600! This is ridiculous folks! 
 I mean, graphics are nicely illustrated, but it wouldve look much much better if this remake included 
 better resolution, better polygonal display, this is nuts.
  
  Sound: Sound? You mean those beeping noises when you finish a game? Oh yeah those. It's not a problem. 
 As long as you don't have the volume up.
  
  Value: Do not spend a penny on this game. It's not worth it. While it may look fun, the game itself 
 is very repetitive and old.
  
  Overall: This is one of the most atrocious game for DS since Ping Pals. It's also one of the most 
 useless games of DS. There is no point in making it or buying it. It's not worth your time. You 
 can still be playing that demo Metroid Prime and Mario Bros DS. Retro Atri Classics is a bummer, 
 from top to bottom. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: culturejammer
Rating: 1.4
Date: Mar 24, 2005 8:40 am PT
Review:  This game is the biggest rip off in the history of rip offs. This is a collection of pale imitations 
 of classic games. The controls are utterly broken, which makes nearly all of the games no fun to 
 play at all. This game needed to spend another year in development - so as to get the controls 
 to function properly - or it needed to be scrapped before it could defraud unsuspecting gamers 
 out of $30. 
  
  I gave this game a 2 for graphics because they managed to screw up what is the simplest thing to 
 do, put a 4-bit game on a 64-bit system. This was apparently too much to ask. The games in their 
 "original" mode are not done correctly. As for the "remix" modes... to each their own, but I don't 
 know who came up with this. The remixes are ugly and difficult to play as they clutter and distort 
 the playing field.
  
  I don't care who you are, I dare you to enjoy this game. If you think that you do, it is merely 
 because you have not played a proper port of these "old school" games. It is not normal to have 
 to monkey with broken controls while trying to play these games. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: covenant342
Rating: 7.2
Date: Mar 22, 2005 8:22 am PT
Review:  Since there is no review as of righting, i guess i should review it.
  This collection has 10 old atari games, "remixed" by 3 graffiti artists, and also includes the 
 original games, but not perfect. The games are good, old fashioned fun. If you've rarely played 
 these games, then you should get this, and see how addicting lunar landar is. But if you've played 
 these games extensively in the arcades, then you shouldn't get this game at the price it is right 
 now.
  
  Gameplay- The gameplay is very solid, as the games are fun to play, but the thing here is that, 
 well, the playing with the stylus is very bad with some games, requiring you to not use it, while 
 the other ones need it. The stylus playing is very weird, and if you try to go left or right, you 
 often times accelerate. That applies to gravitar and asteroids, which you tap on the touch screen 
 to fire, often accelerating, that means crashing into something. Centipedes is also very bad at 
 controlling with the stylus. When you touch the touch screen in centipedes, you don't actually 
 drag the thing you shoot with, you move it in front of you, which is awkward. Tempest, you actually 
 need the stylus to move in the tube. I would have liked to have used my d-pad to move around the 
 tube, and my buttons to use the super zapper. Missile command isn't just about the stylus control, 
 it's the whole control. In order to attack the top screen, you need to hold the L or R button, 
 and shoot where it is on the touch screen. This inaccuracy it makes, is frustrating at times. Lunar 
 lander, the control is fine, where you just touch buttons to move, and increase thrusters. Warlords 
 and breakout control the same, where the stylus is actually reccommended for accurate reflecting 
 shots. Sprint, well, i never really liked it, that has a wheel on the touch screen.
  
  Graphics- the graphics for the retro games are the same as the original arcade games, but the visual 
 treats are in the "remix" games. As I said before, there are 3 different graffiti artists who remixed 
 the 10 games. The best one (In my opinion) is Reas, which remade warlords, centipede, and breakout. 
 They have a unique style, which i like. They also have some funny dialogue in Centipede, like when 
 you get a game over, it shows a short cartoon of "you got burnt" which is pretty funny to show 
 your friends, because theres never really suicide in Nintendo's games. (i'll leave that to you to 
 see it) The Reas group has colorful style, and is unique. The next group is Studio #1 and Obey. 
 They have the games gravitar, lunar landar, missile command, and sprint. Overall, these are good 
 (lunar lander having gold teeth is hysterical) but lack the unique, colorful style of Reas. Third 
 and Least, are delta, which did pong, tempest, and asteroids. Pong looks like it could have been 
 on the GBC, tempest is in 3d blocks, and asteroids is pretty good, but you can't see where your 
 damn space ship is. Overall, it's pretty good, this is definitely the main thing of the game.
 
  
  Sound- Well, the sounds you liked in the originals are here in the remixed too. It would have been 
 awesome if they put in some kind of "street" music, but even for the remixed versions, they're 
 still the same as the original arcade. The title music is very hip hoppy, thats really the only 
 good music, everything else is old sounds.
  
  Value- You'll want to keep playing (most) of these games again and again. Centipede, lunar landar, 
 warlords, and missile command are my highlights.
  
  Reviewers tilt- this is my first good collection of atari games. I haven't played these games much 
 until this, so this is a good experience for me to play these good, old school games. Also, the 
 multiplayer has only pong, warlords, and sprint. You also need to have multiple copies to play. 
 You can download a mario level, yet you can't download the simple game pong. This is a good game, 
 but only for the people new to arcade. (or haven't played it that much) 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
