-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Rhapsody: A Musical Adventure
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/ds/rpg/rhapsodyamusicaladventure/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 Charming presentation with sweet music.
 New side quest and scenario.
 Authentic Japanese vocals.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 An absolute breeze to play through.
 Lots of backtracking through reused dungeon templates.
 Disappointing battle sound effects.
 Very cutscene heavy.
 No English vocal option.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Sep 23, 2008
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 6
Critic Score: 7.0, 22 Review (s)
User Score: 7.5, 44 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: NIS America
Developer: Nippon Ichi Soft.
Genre: Role-Playing
Date: Sep 23, 2008
ESRB: Everyone

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Rhapsody: A Musical Adventure is a lovely remake of a niche PlayStation classic, but it still lacks 
 broad appeal. 

  Rhapsody: A Musical Adventure is a role-playing game with an acoustic twist: it relies on unique 
 musical numbers to convey a tragic story of love and loss. Though the game is incredibly easy, 
 places an undue emphasis on cutscenes, and boasts a woefully oversimplified battle system, developer 
 Nippon Ichi has successfully recaptured the emotional intensity of the PlayStation original, re-creating 
 a cult classic that still holds some limited appeal.  

  Rhapsody casts you as Cornet, a young peasant girl infatuated with a prince charming she has only 
 met in her dreams. Cornet isnt your typical love-struck ninny; she can talk to puppets with the 
 power of her magical horn. Using this baffling power, she can secure adorable puppet allies in 
 your quest to retrieve her one true love from the clutches of a vile witch. The cliche storyline 
 is dull and forgettable, but the full musical segments are a real treat. These musicals provide 
 comedic value, as well as heart-wrenching entertainment, but you're able to skip them if you want 
 to.  

           Splatter your foes with cake in this charming, if empty, adventure.      

  Rhapsody's 
 simple gameplay proceeds in a chapter format and follows your quest to first impress, then rescue 
 the prince. The makes great use of stylus controls, which make investigating Cornet's world highly 
 intuitive. A new detailed map that is always present on the top screen has also been introduced, 
 and while a map is certainly appreciated, it vastly oversimplifies dungeons by revealing the entire 
 floor plan of an area. This is irritating because it not only saps the fun out of intense dungeon 
 exploration but also makes Rhapsody a virtual breeze.  

  The random battle system has been significantly downgraded from the PlayStation original as Rhapsody 
 has abandoned its strategy role-playing roots in favor of straightforward turn-based brawls that 
 lack any kind of strategic challenge whatsoever. You'll no longer have to worry about a movement 
 field or character positioning for attacks or spells, and all your foes are pathetic and easily 
 dispatched. This makes the game so simple that you can fly through it on auto-attack, including 
 most boss fights, which is ridiculous. Furthermore, the rare enemy that does cause you the slightest 
 bit of trouble is avoided with ease because Rhapsody also features an extremely high escape success 
 rate that adds to the game's disturbingly low difficulty level. One element Nippon Ichi did not 
 adjust pertains to Cornet's cute horn attacks, which still allow you to initiate special reward 
 skills by filling a gauge with musical notes. This results in you slamming your enemies with flapjacks 
 and cake, which adds to the game's adorable if quirky character.  

  One of Rhapsody's most annoying aspects is the sheer amount of pointless backtracking you're forced 
 to endure; you're often forced to repeat dungeons to spur on events that return you to town, or 
 you may be sent straight back to where you came from in another cutscene. This means you have to 
 fend off weaker adversaries that you first met five trips ago, which is a tedious, boring endeavor. 
 This process wouldn't be as frustrating if Rhapsody hadn't reused the same dull templates for new 
 dungeons; as it stands, you're looking at completing various caves and towers cast in a different 
 color, if you're lucky. Another disappointment is that the game is quite heavy on cutscenes, offering 
 a low playtime to cutscene ratio for most of its chapters, and this is excluding musicals. For 
 example, in one chapter, your objective is to attend the prince's birthday party, which amounts 
 to roughly two minutes of random battles and a series of cutscenes along with a three minute song-and-dance 
 session. This is worsened by the fact that some of the chapters are quite short, during which you 
 spend more time in cutscenes than actually playing the game.  

  Rhapsody's most endearing quality by far is its soft, artistic presentation highlighted by colorful 
 environments and adorable 2D sprites. The musical segments consist of sweet melodies sung in Japanese 
 for an extra authentic touch, and while the voices come out relatively clear, they do seem to push 
 the handheld's audio capabilities to the limit. Unfortunately, there is no English vocal option, 
 but the lyrical translations remain intact from the original and are localized well. The frustrating 
 lack of ambient sounds during most battles means that at best, you get a decent background song 
 and some odd spellcasting sounds; at worst, you get silence. Moreover, the sound effects that Nippon 
 Ichi did include are so subtle that you can barely hear them, which is a baffling shame for a game 
 so focused on audio presentation.  

           The battle system has been updated to include stylus controls.      

  Rhapsody may 
 seem a bit short at just under 10 hours, but you can double or triple this amount by completing 
 side quests or the new scenario that you unlock after completion. This is the first time that this 
 scenario has been released outside of Japan, so it's a significant inclusion whether you're a fan 
 or not. Also included is an encore feature that allows you to replay all musical segments, as well 
 as a new observation feature, which offers brief character biographies that fans should find amusing. 
 A new mic minigame has also been added to garner you a little extra cash, but the amount is so 
 small that the minigame is a moot effort.  

  Rhapsody: A Musical Adventure is extremely easy and overloaded with cutscenes, but what this sweet, 
 artistic musical RPG lacks in complexity, it makes up for in charm. If you're a big fan of the 
 original or regret never having played it, you should definitely give this remake a look; just 
 don't expect to find much in the way of intrigue, depth, or intensity.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (2 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: Naomz
Rating: 7.5
Date: Feb 21, 2009 10:32 am PT
Review:  I love a good cutsey RPG that doesn't take itself to seriously. And this is definetly that kind 
 of game. I loved the characters. Collecting the puppets, and the all around silly story. I ts a 
 musical, with is pretty ok. I think is pretty adorable that the characters break out into songs 
 at some points in the game. ( they can be skipped though)
  Its about a girl named Cornet who plays a horn to control puppets to use in battle. While in the 
 mean time she is madly in love with the prince and wants to marry him. And also there is an evil 
 witch who also loves the prince. Thats the story in a nutshell.
  Some of the missions you go on are absolutey ridiculous. Like you gotta go find a dress to where 
 to join a contest to become the prince's bride, and the richest girl of the town has bought all 
 the dresses and you end up only findind a bear costume. Haha.
  Also its a turn based RPG and you use pancakes, candy and cake as your specials when attacking. 
 its cute.
  The one and only problem I have with the game is the fact that there is absolutley no challenge. 
 The battles are sooooooo easy. Even boss fights. Even though I like cute RPG's doesn't mean I don't 
 like a good challenge.
  On the plus side i find it to be great for beginners to the RPG genre. So basically its a cute 
 game, good story, very funny, just too easy. If your looking for a challenging RPG for the DS. 
 You might want to pick up something else. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: trini_hoshi
Rating: 8
Date: Feb 9, 2009 8:33 am PT
Review:  Rhapsody is about a girl named Cornet who has the ability to make dolls come to life with the aid 
 of her horn. Her horn allowes Cornet to cast spells by playing it. As she plays the horn the music 
 meter goes up from 1 to 5 as max. She can unleash attacks using the meter cost such as one is pancake 
 which is funny, a stack of pancakes crash down on the enemies. 
  
  The story is ok but, it's a typical japanese story plot. Girl loves boy, boy gets kidnapped, girl 
 rescues boy though it usually the other way around but, still story plot been there done that, 
 but the game gives you several hours of fun gameplay and nice jap-pop music, I do recommend a set 
 of earphones so you can be better hear the music though.
  
  Also this game is 19.99 or 17.99 used at gamestop so its a bargin for the amount of gaming you 
 get from it. You can play this game until Suikoden Tiekrus comes out later this year. Which from 
 trailer I saw that one will be a great ds game too. 
  
  
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
