-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Rhythm Heaven
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/ds/puzzle/rhythmtengokugold/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 The songs are catchy.
 Cartoony visuals are cute.
 Touch-screen controls correlate well to the action.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 Too difficult at times.
 Controls don't always register.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Apr  1, 2009
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 7.5
Critic Score: 8.3, 16 Review (s)
User Score: 8.6, 77 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Nintendo
Genre: Rhythm / Music
Date: Apr 5, 2009
ESRB: Everyone

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
This unusual music game is as satisfying as it is strange, but the high difficulty limits its appeal. 
 

  Rhythm Heaven is an odd entry in the music genre. It captures the same play-along spirit of other 
 musically themed games but has a minigame collection mentality, quickly rushing you from one strange 
 situation to the next. The offbeat nature of these different scenes makes the experience feel loose 
 and freewheeling, and the simple joy of following along with catchy tunes is your lone guiding 
 force. Looks can be deceiving, though. Underneath the happy-go-lucky visuals, Rhythm Heaven hides 
 a fierce difficulty that could halt those cursed with the inability to follow anything more than 
 a simple beat. The quirky encounters and hummable music make this fun for anyone who likes to tap 
 along to the radio, but the difficulty could serve as an unmovable obstacle for players who lack 
 musical talent.  

        var shown = false; function syncRoadBlock (adTag) { if ( shown ) return; 

  You control 
 Rhythm Heaven using nothing more than your stylus. There are only a few moves to learn, but because 
 of the variety of scenarios, the game rarely gets repetitive. Most of the time, you'll need to 
 either tap the screen, following along with the beat like a drummer, or keep your stylus on the 
 screen to hold a longer note. There is also a flick move, which is used to finish off a particular 
 set of commands with a flourish. For instance, when participating in a glee club, you hold your 
 stylus on the screen to keep your stick-figure character silent, lift up to sing along with your 
 friends, and flick to hit those high notes. The flick translates surprisingly well to the onscreen 
 actions, making it a rewarding way to end particularly tricky sections. However, this move does 
 not always register, especially when you have to quickly flick after completing a string of taps. 
 For the most part, though, the touch screen commands work well, giving you nothing to blame if 
 you're too awkward to follow along with the beat.  

  Rhythm Heaven takes you down some unexplored roads in the music genre. The standard instruments 
 are here, so you can bang along on a giant drum or play guitar in a ghost rock band, but there 
 are some really strange situations as well. In one stage, you have to take pictures of cars speeding 
 around a track in time with the beat. In another, you play as a ninja dog and have to slice vegetables 
 as they soar above your head. The oddity of the different events adds a lot to the experience, 
 and as each new level opens you'll rush to see what weird idea you'll get to play through next. 
 As clever as the visuals are, though, they can be a distraction. The animations don't always match 
 up perfectly with the music, so if you're using your eyes to know when to swipe your stylus, you'll 
 often be slightly off. Because of this, it's often easier to pass levels by closing your eyes and 
 feeling the music rather than putting your trust in the inaccurate visuals.  

  Nothing about this game would work if the music were a dud, so it's a good thing these tunes are 
 infectious. Each scenario comes with its own song, so you'll get a wide variety of different musical 
 styles. When mixing love potions with the dreamy scientist, you're treated to a slow ballad that 
 will make your experiment even more potent. In a competitive eating minigame, the fast music provides 
 ample motivation to quickly toss food into your mouth. Although not everyone will love the saccharine 
 fan club song, the fidelity of the different tunes is impressively high. Everything sounds good 
 coming from the Nintendo DS speakers, but strapping on a pair of headphones takes your listening 
 pleasure up to the next level. Everything sounds crystal clear, and some tracks, such as the Easter 
 Island statue duet, sound incredible.  

           Silly game -- birds don't need an airplane to fly.      

  There is one drawback to this 
 otherwise charming, hummable game: It's hard. If you're rhythmically challenged, you'll find your 
 progress stopped quite often. In most cases, the game does find a way to help graceless individuals 
 along. If you fail a song three straight times, you are given the option to skip it and move on 
 to something that is hopefully less taxing. However, this is not always the case. When you get 
 to the end of the first batch of levels, you are never given the option to skip ahead and instead 
 are forced to play it over and over until you master its tricky rhythm. This problem is made worse 
 by a lack of direction in how to be more successful. Instead of offering pointers to people clearly 
 unable to grasp the finer points of the minigame, the game merely says "Try a little harder," which 
 makes your failure all the most deflating. Furthermore, the barometer for success is needlessly 
 high. Even getting the vast majority of notes correct does not ensure safe passage to the next 
 set of levels, and the game never gives an indication of how close you are to meeting its requirements. 
 Although people who are overflowing with musical talents won't have to worry about their progress 
 being hampered, the less rhythmically abled will fight an uphill battle.  

  Rhythm Heaven is fun despite its demanding nature because it's so charming and silly. The visuals 
 that accompany each level have their own unique touch, making each minigame enjoyable to watch 
 just to see what wacky idea will crop up next. The music is outstanding, providing catchy beats 
 that will stick in your head long after you've turned off the system, and the fidelity is high, 
 especially when you plug in a pair of headphones. It's disappointing that this game doesn't offer 
 multiple difficulty levels, but if you have music in your heart, you'll find something to enjoy 
 here.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (9 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: grafkhun
Rating: 8
Date: Apr 17, 2009 2:04 pm PT
Review:  [Note: I'm talking about the Japanese version 'Rhythm Tengoku Gold'.]
  
  From the people behind the WarioWare game's comes another eclectic and inane mini-game compilation 
 package. Rhythm Tengoku Gold (RTG) is the sequel to the GBA game Rhythm Tengoku, go figure, and 
 it still has the same adorable charm and addictive mini-games. However, unlike WarioWare, RTG has 
 an emphasis on rhythm, it's in the title after all, and music plays a large part.
  
  
  Every mini-game has it's own music track and requires you to do really random things all to the 
 beat of the music. One game may have you stomping on the ground to launch turnips into the air 
 and then you'll have to uppercut them into the basket on your back. Then another has you participating 
 in lizard mating rituals. It gets a little weird, just a tad. There are only three touch-screen 
 commands in the whole game as well, and buttons aren't used at all, well except for the pause button. 
 You'll either be tapping, flicking, or dragging the stylus.
  
  
  Some of the games are maddeningly hard to perfect. There's one mini-game in which you must blast 
 mines in a space ship to this sick electric guitar riff. If you miss even just three of the many 
 mines then you will only get a 'mediocre' ranking. While that qualifies as passing and will let 
 you continue to the next game, getting a 'superb' ranking will not only make you feel better, but 
 it will open up 'perfect' challenges. These come at random and only for games in which you scored 
 a 'superb'. You get three tries at getting a 'perfect' and if you mess up then the next time the 
 opportunity comes is anyone's guess.
  
  
  There are six tiers of five mini-games each, but there are four unlock-able tiers as well. The 
 fifth game of every tier is a remix of the past four games. This cobbles the four games into one 
 and gives them a graphical facelift and sets them to a new tune. Needless to say, the remixes are 
 the highlight of the game. Each one is just so insane and you'll be laughing and struggling to 
 keep up with the beat; it's just awesome. During one of the remixes the aforementioned space mine 
 blasting level is replaced with coconut blasting goodness, complete with a tiki hut and a volcano 
 in the background. I had to pause the game since I was laughing so hard. Also unlike WarioWare 
 games, these games last more than four seconds. In fact some even go on for several minutes.
  
  
  RTG is chock full of weird extra's from prototype mini-games that didn't make the cut to 
 an in-game music player; there's more than just the mini-games here. On the production side RTG's 
 graphics have that funky  sort of vibe. That's 
 not a bad thing; just don't expect super high-resolution art or elaborate sprite work or anything 
 fancy. Audio wise the game is superb all around. Sound effects aren't annoying or too subtle and 
 the music is great. Each tune is different as well, you may be thinking its all crazy J-pop stuff, 
 but there's quite a lot of aural variety here.
  
  
  Since I'm talking about the Japanese version I'll have to address the localization differences. 
 You may have heard that some of the music tracks have terrible localization and the singers are 
 just plain bad. I'll just remind you that not every song has lyrics though keep that in mind. That's 
 the only difference between the versions however. While the lackluster singing may bother audiophiles, 
 I don't think a few crappy songs is worth importing the Japanese version over whatever version 
 your region offers. But if you're super hardcore and you're thinking the idiosyncratic Japanese 
 appeal is lost in translation (and you may or may not have anime figurines and Pocky wrappers all 
 over your desk) then go import it. While I haven't played Rhythm Heaven yet, I don't think it makes 
 much difference which version you get. 
  
  
  Now if you do import RTG, have no fear. I can't read a smidgeon of Japanese but I navigated the 
 menus just fine. You may have some trouble with the tutorials before each mini-game, but there's 
 nothing like some good old fashioned southern style po-boy's to cure an appetite wait, what? I 
 mean, I learned how to play each mini-game through some simple trial and error, there's nothing 
 in here you can't figure out if you don't know Japanese.
  
  
  The somewhat lenient timing detection and the ease of the controls lend RTG to a more pick-up-and-play 
 feel and when combined with the quirky appeal of the graphics and the super catchy music, you have 
 a game that is sure to attract attention. RTG serves both the casual gamer by making an accessible 
 simple rhythm control scheme, but the 'perfect' challenges will keep hardcore gamers engrossed 
 as well. Import the original Japanese version or go with the localized versions, doesn't matter, 
 just get this whacked-out game either way. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: campfireglory
Rating: 9.5
Date: Apr 14, 2009 10:56 pm PT
Review:  Rhythm Heaven is by far the best rhythm game I have ever played. After a couple of tutorials in 
 the beginning, the simple, yet satisfying music of this game will suck you in. About 6 months ago 
 I had a different version of this game called Rhythm Tengoku Gold, which was, essentially, the 
 Japanese release. I speak very little Japanese and read even less, but the "practice" sessions 
 (which you have the option of skipping) , teach you the motions of each game , so the English version 
 is much easier to learn. There are 50+ mini-games and sort of boss stages at the end of each set. 
 Each one is different other than the sequels (which are more difficult versions of the first ones) 
 There are also mini-games you unlock by getting "medals" which are obtained by getting the gold 
 square. There are basically three ranks you can get at the end of each game; Fail, Pass, and Awesome. 
 Awesome is your gold square or medal. Pass just gets you a silver square. Fail, well, you need 
 to try again.
  
  There is an obvious downside to this game however, you need to be able to hear the game in order 
 to enjoy it fully. So, if your don't have headphones, or you cant put the volume up, it will not 
 be as fun.
  
  Other than that, this game is excellent and you can easily spend 20-40 hours unlocking everything. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: shikidown
Rating: 8
Date: Apr 14, 2009 12:44 pm PT
Review:  Five six seven eight and flick! Five six seven eight and flick! Five six seven eight and flick! 
 Five six seven eight and flick! Five six seven eight and flick! Five six seven eight and flick! 
 Five six seven eight and flick Five six seven eight and flick! ! Five six seven eight and flick! 
 Five six seven eight and flick! 
  Fun ds rhythm. I bought it bc i thought it was for the dsi only. [dsi rules!] dont smoke. so many 
 games. i like the monkey game. also i love the remixes. drugs are bad. i need stuff to say so. 
 blue to the max. Five six seven eight and flick! Five six seven eight and flick! Five six seven 
 eight and flick! Five six seven eight and flick! Five six seven eight and flick! Five six seven 
 eight and flick! Five six seven eight and flick Five six seven eight and flick! ! Five six seven 
 eight and flick! Five six seven eight and flick! Five six seven eight and flick! Five six seven 
 eight and flick! Five six seven eight and flick! Five six seven eight and flick! Five six seven 
 eight and flick! Five six seven eight and flick! Five six seven eight and flick Five six seven 
 eight and flick! ! Five six seven eight and flick! Five six seven eight and flick! Five six seven 
 eight and flick! Five six seven eight and flick! Five six seven eight and flick! Five six seven 
 eight and flick! Five six seven eight and flick! Five six seven eight and flick! Five six seven 
 eight and flick Five six seven eight and flick! ! Five six seven eight and flick! Five six seven 
 eight and flick! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Pyro767
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 11, 2009 9:33 pm PT
Review:  I admit, I was skeptical of this game at first, but once you get it I dare you to put it down, 
 you will never succeed. This is the kind of game that gets you addicted to it like crack, only 
 it doesn't do anything bad to you.
  
  The graphics are cartoony and welcoming, but don't think that this can be pulled off as a photo-realistic 
 thing, that is reserved for Rock Band.
  
  The gameplay is totally addictive. You control the entire game with your stylus by using three 
 simple movements: tap, release, and flick. Although if you think that this will be a walk in the 
 park, you are dead wrong. You can pass all the games, but to really do good you need some musical 
 ability, otherwise the difficulty will absolutely consume you. I should know, I have some musical 
 ability and it is REALLY FRIGEN HARD!
  
  If the audio wasn't good, I wouldn't have considered this game for a second. But it is good, therefore 
 it is awesome. You will be trying your best to unlock the songs just to have the ability to listen 
 to them. For the best audio, I suggest using headphones, there is actually a whole lot of difference. 
 BTW the best song is Lockstep, just so you know.
  
  You may wonder if this game has replay value, and this is a situation where someone says "Can Chuck 
 Norris roundhouse kick you across the room?" You don't even have to beat the game to know it has 
 replay value, considering the rewards you can get, all the perfect challenges to complete, and 
 some of the games are just flat out fun (Lockstep, DJ School) .
  
  So the bottom line here is that if you don't have it, GO GET IT! RIGHT NOW! Stop just sitting there 
 reading this review, get into a car, drive down to Wal-Mart and GET THE GAME! Seriously, it'll 
 be one of the best choices you will have ever made! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Spade_Crisis
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 11, 2009 1:41 pm PT
Review:  Tsunku did it again, and he gives us yet another addition the Rhythm Tengoku series (Japanese 
 Release name) . If you didn't know, Tsunku is the composer of Rhythm Heaven, and first released 
 Rhythm Tengoku in Japan for the GBA, which never gotten localized. Soon, later on, he released 
 yet another game, Rhythm Tengoku Gold, which later became localized as Rhythm Heaven.
  
  Gameplay - Gameplay is quite fun. Think of it like WarioWare with a mix of music. Definitely fun 
 with all these minigames. You could be in space shooting bombs, or fueling up robots, or you could 
 be the monkey fans of a popstar. It may sound odd now, but once you get your hands on it, it's 
 definitely fun. Although, touch controls seemed tacked on.
  
  Graphics - They are just like WarioWare, fun, vibrant, and very much like WarioWare. 
  
  Music 
 - If you were thinking of the music to be another Mario remix, or anything of the subject, then 
 your wrong. Our composer made an amazing and original soundtrack to listen to. 
  
  Flaws - The touch controls seemed tacked on, as said earlier. They could have made it all button 
 control, and it would still have the same effect, in my opinion. 
  
  Conclusion - Definitely a fresh new game to look out for. If you like music, WarioWare, or playing 
 paddle ball in space, this is definitely the game for you.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Wii_NDS_Master
Rating: 8.5
Date: Apr 10, 2009 10:44 am PT
Review:  Graphics: this game has some very fun and child-appealing graphics. The cartoons are very simple 
 but interesting.
  
  Entertainment: This game is very fun to play and gives off a lot laughs. One of the most addicting 
 games on DS.
  
  Sound: Music is snappy but not annoying. Not that great quality, but some great choices.
  
 
  Replay: May get boring after a while, but that will at least be in 3 months.
  
  Controls: Easy to pick up, everything is controlled by the stylus.
  
  Difficulty: Easy to know 
 how to play, but gets frustrating and hard later on.
  
  Notes: This game is a game of pure fun. Delivers an odd but fun game. Just tap with the stylus 
 into the rhythm. It is not at all like Guitar Hero or Rock Band, you don't really have any notes. 
 You control someone or something to do something rhythmically. In one of the mini games, you have 
 to tap rhythm correctly so that a man could take stuff off the ground. It may sound boring, but 
 it is really hard to put the game down! 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Arauder
Rating: 9.5
Date: Apr 9, 2009 10:24 am PT
Review:  Rhythm Heaven, as the title suggests, is a game where music rules it's universe. Failure to contribute 
 to this heaven adequately will leave you crying somewhere in the corner with shame.
  
  The production value once you start up the game unveils itself immediately even in the opening 
 menu. The main logo pulses with the beat to an addicting swing-beat and you couldn't help but tap 
 your foot to it. Each and every mini-game (including it's reincarnations) are all obvious given 
 a lot of thought and time, and of course, the hilarious Japanese craze and flare. 
  
  One of my favorite mini-games features a monk who had been trained in the "arts" of gulping down 
 whole eggs in a rhythmic fashion. I know, it sounds really weird, but "Rhythm Heaven" couldn't 
 have gotten it more right!
  
  That's another great thing about this game: Every single one of it's addicting games just feel... 
 right. Whether you're in a choir club, building robots or widgets, or maybe playing table tennis 
 in outer space, the music supplementing them integrate perfectly with the fast-paced chaos that 
 ensues in the action, and of course, you'll be finding yourself singing the chorus of that one 
 mini-game... or maybe humming the guitar chords from another.
  But one thing's for sure, there much fun to be had with this game. 
  The only thing that pisses 
 me off in this game is the unenthusiastic "singing" of the English adaptions to a couple of songs 
 that have lyrics in them. 
  
  Difficulty too hard for you? That's one of the other aspects that continue to draw me into the 
 game! Difficulty is a very touchy issue in most rhythm games, but "Rhythm Heaven" applies an "easy 
 to learn, difficult to master" type of game play that encourages you to practice more and more 
 (and having fun while doing it) in order to perfect your rhythm heavenliness! I love music games; 
 play them all the time and achieve a constant stream of win from every one of them, but this little 
 DS cart even made me question my own caliber! 
  
  In short, there's nothing wrong with the difficulty, and the shear simplicity and addictive value 
 it presents keeps you going even after you've beaten the game. 
  
  Game play: 10/10
  
  Graphics: 9/10
  
  Sound: 10/10
  
  Lasting appeal: 9/10
  
  TOTAL: 9.5/10 = Buy this 
 game. 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: kardine
Rating: 8.5
Date: Apr 7, 2009 1:11 pm PT
Review:  GAMEPLAY (9.0/10) :
  
  A game that relies on your ability to follow a musical pattern is nothing but ambitious. I am happy 
 to say it was well implemented in this game. You won't find any rhythm puzzles in this game, but 
 rather something more like warioware, mixed with music.
  
  Of course this is HARD, but it is so fun that I cant help but rave about this game. 
  
  CONTROL 
 (8.0/10) :
  
  I had some gripes with this, but once you get a little more used to finding the areas of different 
 notes, it will not only be a great experience, it will truly help you if you are a musician. It 
 works, even though frustrating at times; with a little practice you can master it.
  
  PRESENTATION (9.0/10) :
  
  Superb graphics, amazing sound effects, and best of all, great tunes. 
 It is all wrapped up in a pretty little package.
  
  SOUND (9.5/10) :
  
  Obviously you expect a lot from the area of sound if it is a rhythm game, but man does this game 
 deliver. The tunes are so catchy that you will be humming them after you turn your DS off.
  
  REPLAY VALUE (8.0/10) :
  
  Good, but some of the mini games are ones I wish you could skip 
 because they are too *insert gripe here*.
  
  FINAL VERDICT (8.5/10 should be 8.7 but GS estimates) :
  
  Definetly buy it, it is worth your 
 money. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: FuryX-4
Rating: 9.5
Date: Apr 5, 2009 5:59 pm PT
Review:  So Rhythm Heaven is a game where you have to listen the music and do the rhythm correctly without 
 miss. You can play this game on the DSi or the regular DS or DSLite. I found out that Rhythm Heaven 
 is very amazing.
  
  Game plays:
  You play it sideways and you play it with the touch screen. Before you start playing some rhythm 
 games, they start off giving you to practice flicking. After your done with it, you can start playing 
 some games. There are 50 rhythm games to do, most of them are easy, and most of them are hard or 
 difficult. There are some parts that have tapping, flicking and sliding in the games. If your bored 
 of the rhythm games, then try out the some the extras like Rhythm Toys and more. In order to play 
 some extras or to unlock, you must play the rhythm games and get gold medal so you can play the 
 extras. There is a guitar lesson where you have to unlock it from the rhythm games. It may be frustrating 
 when your hand feel tired from the tapping, flicking or holding, but you might able to be on track 
 on the music. There's more things to see that are interesting.
  
  Graphics:
  The graphics is very cool, there are some rhythm games that are 3D and some of them are cartoon 
 and cute. 
  
  Sounds:
  The sounds or the music is awesome. The music are just awesome, there's a reason why this game 
 is awesome, it's because the music is very good and sort of attract people's attention. The voices 
 are just fine, it has some parts that are funny, others are just normal.
  
  Overall:
  Rhythm Heaven is a must-buy and very addicting game. There is little bit of problem in this game 
 but, Game play, graphics and the sounds makes this game an outstanding DS game. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
