-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Ridge Racer DS
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/ds/driving/ridgeracerds/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 Lots of cars to unlock.
 Decent frame rate.
 Single-card multiplayer.
 Insane 360-degree drifting.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 Weak collision detection.
 Poor analog control.
 Mediocre textures.
 Bad sense of speed.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Dec  1, 2004
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 6.6
Critic Score: 6.4, 39 Review (s)
User Score: 6.9, 720 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Namco
Developer: Nintendo
Genre: Racing
Date: Dec 7, 2004
ESRB: Everyone

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Ridge Racer DS's awkward driving and collision models feel very dated by today's standards. 

 
  The Ridge Racer series is most often associated with Sony's PlayStation, but the series made a 
 trek onto the Nintendo 64 back in the year 2000. That trek combined tracks from previous Ridge 
 Racer games and tossed them onto the N64 with some slightly altered handling. At the time, it was 
 the best thing on the N64, as far as racing games were concerned. Now, Nintendo and Namco have 
 reteamed to deliver the same game -- with a few minor updates -- to the new Nintendo DS. While it's 
 certainly a competent racing game, Ridge Racer DS's awkward driving and collision models feel very 
 dated by today's standards.  

          Racer DS is a portable port of the Nintendo 64 game, Ridge Racer 64.     

  Ridge Racer 
 is an arcade-style racing game with a heavy focus on drifting. The game is broken up into four 
 different components. The main mode is the grand prix mode, where you'll take on the game's tracks 
 one at a time. When you finish a series of tracks, you open up another stage in the game's car 
 attack mode. Here, you'll race on the same tracks from grand prix mode, but you'll only face one 
 opponent instead of 11. Winning here unlocks another car. Time attack mode lets you try to beat 
 your best lap and race times. Finally, multiplayer lets up to six players race at the same time 
 and only requires you to have one game card, though your course and car selection is limited unless 
 everyone has their own copy of the game.  

  Regardless of your mode choice, the game plays roughly the same. Your goal is to finish first. 
 Racing games live and die by how well they handle and, really, how fun it is to actually drive 
 the cars. Here, Ridge Racer DS is a little muddy. The game's extreme, over-the-top driving physics 
 are good for a few laughs, but at the same time, they're a little too crazy. Drifting around corners 
 is the key to easy victory, but the way the game handles these controlled losses of traction is 
 a little too insane. When going around a sharp turn, you can let off the accelerator to start sliding. 
 At that point, the car control is practically turned over to the CPU, which puts your car on a 
 line that slides you all the way through the turn (or turns) without any input from you. Your job 
 is to make sure that your car is pointing in the right direction when the skid ends, so that you 
 don't regain traction and bounce into a wall or end up facing the wrong direction. The "on-a-rail" 
 mentality to the skids means that you can basically do 360s around any sharp corner and still come 
 out just fine. For those familiar with the N64 game, this is the Ridge Racer 64 method for drift 
 control. While the original game had options for this, as well as drift styles from the first two 
 PlayStation games, this one locks you into this new, ridiculous style. It's sort of stylish, funny, 
 and cool all at the same time, but the lack of actual control around turns means that you really 
 don't have to think much to play this game well.  

  The other crazy physics display in Ridge Racer DS is its collisions. Wrecking into other cars is 
 about as unsatisfying as it could possibly be. You never cause the opposing car to deviate from 
 its set line through the course, yet you're always left at a disadvantage. Even more annoying is 
 that if you managed to get clipped in the rear quarter panel by another car, that car will usually 
 just warp right up in front of you. This is also the new collision system that was introduced for 
 Ridge Racer 64, though unlike that game, you don't have the option of turning on the old style. 
 To be fair, though, the other collision style certainly wasn't perfect, either. The collision detection 
 in Ridge Racer DS can also be a bit of a mess, as it lets you drive through about two-thirds of 
 a car before it registers a hit and knocks you back.  

  Control in Ridge Racer DS defaults to the D pad and buttons, something the game calls "easy" control. 
 If you so desire, you can get analog control by using two different touch-screen modes, one designed 
 for use with the stylus, and another designed for use with the thumb pad that's attached to the 
 system's strap. The only real difference between the two touch-screen schemes, though, is that 
 the D pad is set up to handle acceleration and braking in stylus mode, but it's disabled in thumb 
 strap mode, making stylus mode friendly to both left- and right-handed players. For some weird 
 reason, the X button is used for gas and the B for brake in these modes, which is totally unintuitive 
 and makes for some difficult transitions from one pedal to the other.  

  The game uses most of the bottom screen to display a steering wheel, and the idea is that you move 
 left and right on this screen to steer. While the thought of true analog control is a nice one 
 here, the results are sketchy. You don't really have time to concentrate on the steering wheel 
 graphic or anything else on the bottom screen, so you're sort of left hoping that you're steering 
 properly. Given all these caveats, the game's D pad support is the best way to go.  

  While the easy drifting and poor collisions are things you can get used to, the game's lack of 
 variety is difficult to accept. There are plenty of races but only a few tracks. The Ridge Racer 
 series invented the concept of opening up and closing off specific portions of a track to make 
 it seem at least somewhat different (thus counting as a whole new track) , but only those nostalgic 
 for these old tracks will get a thrill out of them here. Sticking to these sorts of conventions 
 only serves to make the game feel like a relic.  

  Conveying a good sense of speed is something that most racing games do pretty well these days. 
 While Ridge Racer DS's top speeds feel like you're moving pretty quickly, anything less than that 
 feels like you're standing still. When you're doing 80mph, it really feels more like 25. The game 
 does manage to keep its smooth frame rate up most of the time, though you'll see it chop up a little 
 bit here and there. The textures for the cars look pretty good, but the trackside texture work 
 leaves a lot to be desired. When you get up close to some objects, the textures just look big, 
 blocky, and ugly. From a distance, though, the game looks decent.  

          Ridge Racer DS has a handful of problems that make the whole game feel very dated.     
 

  The audio presentation in Ridge Racer DS is adequate. The game contains a good variety of digitized 
 electronic music that fits the action. However, the music is usually drowned out by droning engine 
 noises, which are a little too monotonous for their own good. Collisions also rear their ugly head 
 here, as there is approximately one sound that's used when you crash into another car or object. 
 Again, these are things that could fly four years ago, but here they only serve to make this game 
 seem, well, four years old.  

  It's safe to say that a lot of the players that are at least thinking about picking up Ridge Racer 
 DS never actually played Ridge Racer 64 back on the N64, and even those players will most likely 
 think that some of the gameplay mechanics and design work in Ridge Racer DS are from another time. 
 It simply doesn't feel like a modern game, and while it may be a decent remake of an older game, 
 it doesn't stand up to today's standards especially well. Even though players will get a kick out 
 of the game's ludicrous take on drifting, Ridge Racer DS has too many flaws to stand out from the 
 pack.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (47 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: Jamez634
Rating: 6
Date: Aug 10, 2008 12:26 am PT
Review:  The first time I played Ridge Racer was in multiplayer mode. My friend had the game and we thought 
 we'd try versing on it. I looked at the cars and tracks I was able to use and thought, is this 
 a joke? There were only about 8 races and 6 cars, but my friend said she had to unlock more - WAY 
 more. So I was disappointed, not with the game, with my friend! But why am I chatting on about 
 that? Let's talk about the game.
  My friend let me borrow it for a week or so and I was playing it almost every day (I guess I wanted 
 to laugh at my friend's face when she saw I had unlocked all the tracks!) until I got fed up with 
 it. 
  It's the gameplay. It's totally useless! You can either use the buttons, or the touch screen. I 
 stuck with the buttons because it was even worse using the stylus to move a silly wheel. But even 
 the buttons didn't impress me. For one thing, every camera view is hopeless and won't come to your 
 liking. Plus, when you turn, you turn way too far and do an insane 360 drift. For some reason, 
 Gamespot said that was a good thing, but I found it to be too hard to control and made me give 
 it up. Graphics are alright I guess, but it just gets so annoying that your hands hurt two hours 
 after playing it.
  Maybe I was exagerating on that last bit but Ridge Racer DS is just too plain annoying.
  Multiplayer 
 is kinda good though, because this game can be quite fun versing with friends, because you're both 
 crashing and turning not so well that you get a laugh out of it. But the CPU's aren't alive and 
 drive so perfectly you want to hang your head out the window and shoot them with a machine gun. 
 It's that annoying.
  Overall, if you feel like this game is good, it's bound to last you a good long time unlike some 
 other racing games, but the gameplay is just so dumb I lost almost every time.
  
  GAMEPLAY -----------5
  GRAPHICS -----------8
  SOUND ---------------7
  MULTIPLAYER -----6
  OVERALL ------------6
 
  
  Check out my blog for other reviews on other great (and not so great!) DS games! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: final_lap
Rating: 2.5
Date: Apr 11, 2008 1:35 am PT
Review:  At first this is a pretty good game, it's basically just a Ridge Racer game on the on the DS. How 
 can that be so bad? From a graphical standpoint it's also very impressive for the DS if you ask 
 me.
  
  Well what you find when playing this game is that it doesn't merely have the same wonky hit detection 
 and nonsensical car collision physics from the classic Ridge Racer games on the first Playstation, 
 but they are even worse this time around. Seemingly much much worse.
  
  What you also can't fail to notice is that the framerate is very modest. it's not a slideshow or 
 anything, but it's definitely not smooth at all (I am pretty sure Mario Kart DS is way better here) 
 and it really drags Ridge Racer DS down as a racer.
  
  So anyway it feels like the walls are magnets and you can't avoid hitting them constantly when 
 playing. The roads are extremely narrow most of the time and is barely wide enough to drift in, 
 much less pass an opponent. For many turns it seems the game punishes you for even trying to drift, 
 by guaranteeing you will slam the back of your car into the outside edge of the turn, which pretty 
 much drags you to a complete stop. It's quite frustrating to say the least.
  
  For many turns it seems the most effective way to take them is to just do nothing but turn and 
 hit the walls. This is actually quite an effective way to play and FAR less risky.
  
  Anyway another thing I couldn't help but realize is that the classic Ridge Racer courses, in particular 
 the Ridge Racer Revolution courses, are way too difficult at the speed levels you are going in 
 this game.
  
  That's another thing. This game is WAY TOO FAST. When you're playing a choppy, jaggy, glitchy racer 
 (with occasional polygon flickering) with atrocious collision detection, narrow roads, and impossible 
 back-to-back turn-on-a-dime Z-curves all around the courses, there is just no reason for Ridge 
 Racer DS to try to set itself to be such an exorbitantly fast game.
  
  Here's another thing. Like, this game has the courses from Ridge Racer and Ridge Racer Revolution. 
 It also has a set of desert courses called Renegade. This is a neat course, but on the expert ribbon, 
 there is an appalling "squiggly line" section of road that is literally impossible to get through 
 with going really slow and hitting the wall a thousand times, UNLESS you exploit the game's trademark 
 drift system to powerslide sideways through the entire thing. Like, I totally understand that is 
 in all likelyhood the whole point, and that's how you're supposed to get past section of the course, 
 but that's just really lazy design. It's very cheap, and unintuitive, and the game simply shouldn't 
 have a section like that to begin with. Come on...
  
  I really want you to understand that I played though a good chunk of the game under the impression 
 that it is pretty good. I had fun playing what was basically just a Ridge Racer game on my DS. 
 Like, sure, there's absolutely no avoiding crashing into the walls and other vehicles constantly. 
 (and whenever you do, you hear a really obnoxious loud sound clip that sounds like someone throwing 
 a baseball into a cage filled with baking sheets.) But every time you get a series of S curves 
 down with some skilled drifting, it's -really- satisfying, and the music gets you pumped, and it's 
 a good experience.
  
  But even then, whether on the next lap or next course, you end up careening into the wall five 
 hundred times and that ruins it.
  
  Anyway I made it to the end of the game (game which is rather short and relies on high difficulty 
 to keep you playing the same races over and over trying to win them, which in itself is perfectly 
 fine) I made it to the end of the game, more or less, to a course called Ridge Racer Extreme, which 
 is a 6-lap highspeed course at night, and EVEN THOUGH the turns and the road itself is much wider 
 than normal, it is an excruciatingly difficult race to win, because at this point the races are 
 -so fast- that the poor resolution of the DS and the game's pathetic framerate make it reasonably 
 impossible to see what's ahead.
  
  Really on every level this game is borderline unplayable.
  
  Why even bother playtesting videogames 
 anymore. Seriously.
  
  Who even thought it was a good idea to release a game with such broken controls, hit detection, 
 gameplay, and cheap design, not to mention excessive speed and infuriating difficulty?
  
  Why not keep it simple and make a good, fun, decent game that you can play without super human 
 reflexes and more patience than anyone should have with something that's supposed to be entertainment.
 
  
  I practically beat the game before I even discovered the stylus controls, in which you use the 
 touchscreen to control a steering wheel.
  
  Holy damn. I was basically convinced the game didn't have anything like that. But it does after 
 all. Jeez, I meant to play the game using the touchscreen from the very start. But turns out you 
 have to go to the options screen first to select it.
  
  And that's the depressing part because this game is already much too difficult with the d-pad. 
 With the stylus controls it is impossible, and naturally the courses are too narrow and unforgiving 
 to seriously enjoy playing this way.
  
  It IS fun though, make no mistake about it. I'm just so disappointed that they didn't use the stylus 
 controls to make a new game from the ground up. One that can take the concept and make it as enjoyable 
 as possible. For christ's sake you could have made a sunday drive on the DS with touchscreen controls 
 and it would have thrilling.
  
  But no, rather than making a fun game with some trace of inspiration or design sensibility, they 
 basically just crammed previous Ridge Racers on to the DS in a pathetic, broken port dressed up 
 with a really corny presentation and awful, awful box art that nobody could find appealing. It's 
 a huge waste of potential.
  
  I have to give this game at least the fact that it is apparently just a port of Ridge Racer 64. 
 How depressing. Is that really a good excuse? And I have to say, judging by this, Ridge Racer 64 
 MIGHT have been a good game (or at least a semi-decent one) but it's just too bad the DS doesn't 
 have an analog stick and a TV-size screen. I'm also at least hoping the original version had a 
 better framerate.
  
  I have fondness for this series, but as it is, to merely call this the worst Ridge Racer game would 
 actually be making it look good. Even as a fan, this game is ultimately a train wreck. A train 
 wreck you can take with you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: S-c-a-r-g-i
Rating: 6.5
Date: Sep 15, 2007 6:02 am PT
Review:  Pros:
  Sound  Im sorry but when I hear real voices speak on a game for the DS Im impressed and this 
 had sounds that was smart, by that I mean if you have to laps to go it will say that if its the 
 last straight it will say that because some games are made with random sound that just plays random 
 comments at random times.
  Winning Cars  I liked the fact that after doing you first tournament you have the choice to win 
 3 cars in any order you want, all you have to do is win your opponent in a race. The race is a 
 one on one where they use the car you want to win and you use one of the cars you already have. 
 And you compete on the courses you raced on before.
  Cars  The cars, when selecting them and looking at what you can win, I think the graphics for 
 the cars looked nice and the car design in general looked very nice. Also picking a colour was 
 great as it was very manual were you had a colour bar and using the touch screen you could slide 
 across to pick almost any colour there is which was a very nice touch.
  Cons:
  Graphics  The graphics for ridge racer was shockingly bad. I must admit you could see where you 
 were going but Ive seen a lot better graphics than that.
  Unnecessary Objects  first off there are planes and helicopters flying around at times but its 
 a racing game and there is no need for it be there except to add style maybe but I think it was 
 a waste of time. Secondly the random drifting that occurs when driving is insane. You could be 
 going down a straight then suddenly the car starts to drift from left to right only way to stop 
 it is to stop accelerating. Also the drifting on the game isnt too smashing anyway because my 
 car started a random drift thing so I thought ah I just leave it and see what happens and the next 
 thing I know Ive done a 270 then the drifting stops and I drove straight into a wall.
  Handling  The handling on the 4 first cars was not nice because you had a car with extremely powerful 
 turning were when you turned left or right it would just turn straight into the inner wall which 
 is a bit over the top.
  Picture girl  I know this one may sound a little petty :) but when it come to the menu where you 
 have to press start or touch screen to continue to main game there was a girl on there and I thought 
 it was a boy until I noticed that she had breasts and I thought they could have had a better start 
 up pic rather than that
  Thanks for reading my review I hope people find this helpful 
::::::

::::::
UserName: myron30
Rating: 7.9
Date: Jun 4, 2007 12:32 pm PT
Review:  I didn't like this game the first time I played it. I didn't play it until it had been out for 
 quite some time (way after Mario Kart DS was released) . I bought it used at Game Stop just to see 
 what it was like, and I said, Eck! I hate this game. I haven't liked this series since Ridge Racer 
 R4.
  
  I just picked it up again at the same store for $8 bucks and let me tell ya, I'm happy with it 
 this time. I don't know if it was the price or what, but I love this game now. It provides a great, 
 fun challenging experiece that is widely understated most of the time. It just feels good to have 
 a portable racing game that's this fast and exciting. The graphics are bright and colorful and 
 move at a fast pace even with about 4 or 5 cars on-screen, that's rare but it happens.
  
  I recommend this game to you if you're looking for another fast paced racing game outside of Mario 
 Kart DS. Other racing games such as Need For Speed Underground 2 or Asphalt: Urban GT for example 
 aren't as fun to play as RR. Trust me I've played both.
  
  So, look for it at your local game shop used. That way, if you don't really like it you can get 
 your money back. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GaudyMarrko
Rating: 1
Date: Jul 29, 2007 6:44 pm PT
Review:  This game flat out sucked, if ur in the market for a racing game for your ds do your selves a favor 
 and look elsewhere. The handling of the cars is awful, it looks like somekind a frankensteined 
 version of the uglyest cars in the universe and a pile of poo because when I look at this game 
 all I see is long under detailed roads with poor car designs. A lack of any fun content was very 
 aparent while playing this game and in the long run I'd rather chew off my hands then touch this 
 game ever again. Having a game like this out there is making me regret owning a ds in the first 
 place, so seriously AVOID THIS GAME!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: b_ballin_cory
Rating: 3.6
Date: Apr 15, 2007 2:23 pm PT
Review:  I love this game. I like that when you run into the back of a computer it slows you down and gives 
 them a boost. I also like if they run into the back of you they go through you slow you down and 
 they receive a boost, its so awesome. I like that if you hit b on the breaks the game automatically 
 takes over control and does an awesome turn for you and them slams you into the wall. I also like 
 that the cars turn better when there sliding sideways rather then just turning the wheel. I also 
 like the small tracks which are all the same exact track. Its also fun to race on tracks that are 
 two lanes wide so that its impossible to pass the computers. The most fun I had with this game 
 was stepping on it. Go Buy it Today! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tommyvercetti1
Rating: 9.1
Date: Feb 27, 2007 9:32 am PT
Review:  Ridge Racer DS is actually quite a good game. The sound is the best I've heard on the DS and the 
 graphics are good, way better than say, Asphalt Urban GT. The textures are a bit iffy, though. 
 The game also includes touch screen steering which is good, but hard to get a hang of, but there 
 is a small portion of the steering wheel that doesn't respond. A fun and enjoyable game, with tracks 
 from Ridge Racer, Ridge Racer Revolution and a new set of desert races. There are also two new 
 music tracks which are cool. Overall, this is a great game and should be picked up whenever sighted. 
 But really, if you wanted to play this buy it for the N64 (Yes, it's on there!) But this is a great 
 opportunity to play it if you missed out. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kj_maxim
Rating: 4.5
Date: Feb 11, 2007 6:18 am PT
Review:  Ridge Racer is my favorite racing series especially old classics like Ridge Racer Revolution, but 
 this game didn't live up to its title. It was cool for a while, but when I got on Stage 8 on Grand 
 Prix, it is much harder because most of the cars on that stage are extremely hard to past. Also, 
 I think Namco could've added the look back system like the previous Ridge Racer games. How can 
 you block the cars if you can't see them coming? It feels like Namco might've rushed this one. 
 Something really felt a miss this time around. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Dry_Bomber_2006
Rating: 2.1
Date: Dec 1, 2006 5:02 pm PT
Review:  this game is compleate and total crap. to start off its a basic crappy repetitve racer with no 
 control at all. so you will almost all the time find yourself crashing into walls for no appernt 
 reason and find your self loseing many races. not that many cars to unlock. sloppy graphics. no 
 wifi play and it has crappy music. its just an f ed up racer that no one should get. there are 
 way better handheld racers out. get mario kart ds instead of this crap on a log. also theres bearly 
 a story mode and you wont find any fun racing in a same track over and over again. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: altenter
Rating: 2.5
Date: Sep 16, 2006 10:21 pm PT
Review:  ridge racer was the first of two games i got with my nintendo ds. ridge racer controls are very 
 hard to pick up /namco needs to work on that. the other control options are the touch pad/ never 
 use very very difficult/ and that pointless thumbpad thing that makes still the touch pad very 
 difficult. ridge racer is like this you race with cars win races the more races you win the more 
 chang.. you get to face to unlock cars. some of the cars you unlock are pretty wierd. the sound 
 in this game is very weak. i myself have not betten the last race or the 2nd last chang.... /the 
 2nd chang.... is too hard the guy goes like 200 miles faster than you and only way too win is to 
 keep the guy behind you. plus u can unlock more cars by doing 10 single card races /i dont know 
 anybody who has a ds so thats useless. overall this game i suggest you never buy it. for me to 
 finish this game off i might use the action replay cheat system thing. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: trusteft
Rating: 3.5
Date: Aug 21, 2006 6:33 am PT
Review:  This was my first racing game on the DS. Also one of the reasons I sold my DS. I had no previous 
 contact with the Ridge Racer type of racing games and this game pushed me as far away from them 
 as it is possible to do so. 
  
  First the good things. 
  The game has ok graphics (reminded me a bit of Scream from 486PC days) , ok sound. The sense of 
 speed is good. There are many races available, after you unlock them, and plenty of cars. The music 
 of the game is a mix of techno music of sorts, and for me the best part of this game.
  
  Now the bad things.
  Collision detection SUCKS. You touch an enemy car just a bit, and there 
 is no crash, there is no slowing down of the opponent, it is always your car that almost stops 
 like it hit a brick wall. Imagine this, racing, the finish line is very close and you are driving 
 next to an opponent for the first place that you must win... you are going at the same speed, perhaps 
 you are even going just a bit faster, you can see the finish line, you know you can win this and 
 finaly (after many efforts) unlock the next set of races. Then the two cars get closer to each 
 other, not necessarily touch (every cars has a force field of shorts lol) and so they touch each 
 other's forcefields and it is a mirracle, it is your car that slows down while the enemy wins the 
 race. Repeat the above 1000 times, it is only your car that suffers, you begin toget annoyed with 
 the game.
  
  Other bad thing is that since all the races require you to get first place to unlock the following 
 set of races, you have to repeat th same exact cirquit a lot of times, why? Well, apart from the 
 previously mentioned problems, there are parts of the circuits that are too tight and with too 
 many bends, and also have enemy cars, take a wild guess how "fun" it is to play them.
  
  If you want a good racing game , get Mario Kart DS, if you have that and you want something better/different, 
 get another console or wait for another Mario Kart game from Nintendo. As I said before I gave 
 up on my DS and this game was one of the reasons.
  
  You might like this game, but chances are you won't.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: PowerBomb
Rating: 3.3
Date: Aug 15, 2006 2:08 pm PT
Review:  Written by: Peter Rizkalla
  
  THE RUNDOWN:
  
  Most everyone knows exactly what to expect when you see the name Ridge Racer. However Ridge Racer 
 DS for the Nintendo DS does not exactly live up to Namcos usually good reputation. For those of 
 you that arent familiar with Ridge Racer DS, this is a realistic style auto racing game for 
 the Nintendo DS portable system.
  
  THE GOOD:
  
  Whats good about this game is that you can expect to see a lot of familiar tracks from the Ridge 
 Racer series. Considering how much the Nintendo DS can handle, this game does surprisingly well 
 with a good sense of level depth perception and a good consistent frame-rate. Later on in the game 
 you will unlock exclusive Nintendo-esque goodies like a Princess Toadstool car and the theme 
 song from Mario Bros. 2.
  
  THE BAD:
  
  Everything else will pretty much let you down. RR DS offers you the option to steer either with 
 the cross-pad or with the DS stylus and touch screen, but driving with the touch screen is not 
 fun at all and gives you no advantage over using the cross-pad.
  
  Heck, steering with the cross-pad is hard enough; while driving there is the image of a steering 
 wheel on the bottom screen and when you turn, the wheel turns accordingly. Now normally in racing 
 games you can lightly and repeatedly tap left or right to turn into one of those not-so-sharp turns 
 because all you really want to do is inch away to prevent from hitting the walls right?! Well 
 if you try that in this game you will find that as you lightly tap left or right to go through 
 a wide turn the wheel on the bottom screen is being turned further and further making the turn 
 sharper and sharper and will soon send you slamming into the wall.
  
  Once you do hit the wall you will find that the physics in this game are not that great. If you 
 hit a wall you SHOULD expect that it will most likely slow you down but hitting a wall in this 
 game makes you come to almost a complete stop!
  
  Drifting is not what you expect it to be. When you drift around a corner it just feels like the 
 computer is grabbing your car and sending it down the best possible path. If your car didnt slow 
 down so much during a drift you could probably drift through an entire track and never hit the 
 wall!
  
  THE UGLY:
  
  Honestly, this game could have been so much better than what it is right now; if you play this 
 game you might even find yourself saying Yeah the developers really rushed this game out to store 
 shelves. If you want a racing game with a good sense of speed and solid control then stick to 
 Mario Kart DS because Ridge Racer DS will not give you that. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: allknowingamer
Rating: 1.9
Date: Aug 11, 2006 2:09 pm PT
Review:  I always wanted a racing game for my ds because i thought racing games would be great for this 
 system. Some racing games like Mario Kart DS are the best but Ridge Racer DS was a total failure. 
 Here are the reasons why this is possible the worst racing game. 1) The graphics stink and there 
 aren't any improvements from the OG Ridge Racer 2) the handling on the cars are horrible. If you 
 press right you will go too much to the right same goes with left. The touch screen steering is 
 worthless. It is actually worse to play with. 3) The courses are way too long and choppy. 4) This 
 game becomes extremely boring after about 3 days. Overall, this game would be useful in one way.......... 
 burning for firewood. A horrible game yet it keeps you warm. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hells_zargon
Rating: 4.7
Date: May 4, 2006 10:23 am PT
Review:  Ridge Racer is a very well kmown and popular series, but one which has seemed to be going down 
 the pan since R Racing was released in 2004. With a new ambitious return for the series on the 
 PSP it was assumed that there would be a decent effort to translate as much of this as possible 
 to the DS. Namco thought otherwise.
  
  Producing a game with horrible control systems, repulsive twitchy steering and on-rails skidding 
 it makes you wonder how many minutes the developers must have spent making this game. As well as 
 these problems there is the inconsistent difficulty levels, tedious races, bad sense of speed, 
 lack of tracks, one of the most unfair collision detection systems I have ever seen and mediocre 
 graphics. All this equals an almost unplayable mess where the best part of the game boils down 
 to looking at the 25 cars on offer. 
  
  Stay aware, steer clear of this tripe and get Mario Kart, if you want Ridge Racer just go and buy 
 a PSP instead. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: alex_morel_123
Rating: 4.5
Date: Apr 28, 2006 9:37 pm PT
Review:  This game is really bad. I feel if the developers would have taken there time and gone for a better 
 game then just making a remake of the original the would have done a good job. But to bad they 
 didn't. The game has an AI that its really hard that would have been good if the car driving was 
 any good but its not. 
  
  Something else that gets you very mad is how when a car hits your car they end up going ahead of 
 instead of back. Its really stupid. Never ever get this game even if its free and someone gives 
 it to you. It is one of the worst racing game ever.
  
  I think I would have done a better game and Im only 15. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BobbyBobby85
Rating: 7.7
Date: Apr 11, 2006 7:21 pm PT
Review:  Sure there is a lot of bad publicity with this game, especially from this particular gaming website, 
 but I finally picked this game up at Best Buy the other day for only $5 and I must say that this 
 game is a bit underrated. I had the misfortune of wasting $10 on Asphalt Urban GT for the Nintendo 
 DS a while back. After finally playing both games, I couldn't understand how Asphalt got a marginally 
 better score than RRDS, especially when it had so many bugs and lacked effort in the innovation 
 department. The one thing I did find neat about AUGT was the ability to turn off the backlight 
 on the bottom screen, since the map was ugly and essentially useless. Other than that, everything 
 else about the game felt cheap and uninspired, and I was sorely disappointed that I blew my money 
 on that trash. Putting the past behind me, I figured $5 wasn't a bad deal for a game, though I 
 did recall the horrors of playing AUGT and debated whether or not I should buy this title. Well 
 I did buy it, and now I think it's safe to say that this is the better game of the two launch DS 
 Racers. 
  
  To begin, The cars and collision physics are admittedly ugly, but the rest of the visuals are pretty 
 good for the most part. There are a number of nice effects you'll notice, such as tail light blurring 
 and tire skid marks that help achieve a nice sense of fast paced racing, but I would've liked to 
 at least see some sparks or other damage indicators from scraping against track walls or opposing 
 racers. Unfortunately, the game doesn't feel very real when you crash into a wall, as the only 
 consequence for doing so is a ricochet redirection of your vehicle and a slight drop in speed. 
 As for the sense of speed itself, it's not as bad as Gamespot says, since everything looks and 
 runs smooth and keeps the action moving. It does feel a lot slower when played in third person 
 however, and it seems more difficult to control since the camera isn't as active in following the 
 car. The game does set you in first person by default, so its obvious the developers intentionally 
 made it so it would be most enjoyable in that mode and should be played accordingly. As a matter 
 of fact, playing in 1st person view also helps hide some of the more noticeable glitches with collision 
 detection, and the look and feel produces the sensation of actually being inside the vehicle. Your 
 **** view" will show off some impressive physics not available in third person, like suspension 
 recoil when hitting a bump in the road or weight shifting when taking a sharp turn. The bottom 
 screen is houses the steering wheel 100% of the time, whether or not you choose to use the touch 
 screen controls or outside view. It's a great addition if you ask me, since it moves as you do 
 and helps secure the illusion of driving a virtual car.
  
  The sound department is well in tune and is definately the best aspect of the game. Even the announcer's 
 voice is crystal clear, though he may get a little annoying at times. Engine sounds are believable 
 though all the cars pretty much sound the same, which isn't that big of a problem. It is nice to 
 see that your car produces varying echo effects depending on where you drive, which is something 
 I personally think would've benefitted MarioKart DS's audio. You do have the option of selecting 
 your music at the start of every race, and there are a number of catchy tunes to choose from if 
 you don't mind upbeat techno. Overall, I'm glad to see they did put a good amount of effort into 
 the game's audio since there is little to really complain about here.
  
  Value wise, the game has plenty to offer in single-player races and unlockables. Most of the tracks 
 in the game are from the same three locales, just mapped out with alternate routes to make it feel 
 like there are more "levels". Pretty clever to say the least, since the tracks are varied enough 
 to feel like different courses, even though you'll run through areas you are familiar with often 
 enough. Unlocking extra cars is fun if you can manage to beat out your opponents in their courses, 
 but sometimes the cars you win don't feel worth all the effort. The game doesn't take 2nd place 
 for an answer, so you'll undoubtedly find yourself trying and trying again to win the gold, which 
 adds a bit to the replay value. Thankfully, the developers made a nice looking replay system when 
 you do win, and sometimes it takes so much strain to win that it feels good to reward yourself 
 with a good pat on the back and nice nice break to watch all your hard work in motion. And, unlike 
 AUGT, you get to see ALL racers on the road during replays, not just your own. If there was one 
 thing I hated about Asphault, it will the skimpiness with its presentation. This is where Ridge 
 Racer attains the majority superiority.
  
  The game doesn't bother being stingy either when it comes to game-share multiplayer. Single card 
 play offers quite a heft of options compared to most two player games of the sort, seeing as you 
 aren't restricted to a single car and you can race in virtually every track featured, so long as 
 player one has them unlocked. All players can even choose the color of their cars if they wish. 
 Though there are some compromises for such extra options, such as the lack of music on guest DS 
 systems, but its a necessary evil to allot the player more freedom of choice. Personally, it ain't 
 that big of a problem, since you'll most likely be in close proximity of your opponents and they 
 will be able to hear the music from the host DS. The one downfall to single card play is that if 
 you wish to select a different track to race in, you'll all have to start over and begin the game 
 share option all over again from the DS menu. I guess it's a small price to pay for so many single-card 
 multiplayer options. If you're fortunate enough to find another copy of the game, you get all features 
 and cars, but of course that much is expected.
  
  I say it's a good racing game for DS that shouldn't be missed. If you can play this game in first 
 person like intended, and look past the awkward collision physics, the game can be quite a fun 
 experience in the long run. If you're lucky like me and find this game for cheap, by all means 
 go for it. This game seems to have a bad rep, but I promise you, it's not a bad experience. In 
 fact, I might point out that even though Asphault Urban GT scored almost a whole point higher here 
 at Gamespot, the rest of the industry gives the edge to Ridge Racer. You can look at the "They 
 Say" scores for both games to see for yourself. 
  
  I can't quite explain why I liked this game so much. I'm not sure if it was the great deal I got 
 for it or the fact that I've never played RR64 before, but the fact is it's underrated and doesn't 
 deserve all the smack talk it gets. You can't really bash this game until you play it yourself, 
 so I did exactly that. Turns out, it was one of the most surprising DS games with a "fair" score 
 I've ever ran across. Whodda thunk such games could be enjoyable? Like I said before, I guess beauty 
 is in the eye of the beholder... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Willdyer10
Rating: 7.8
Date: Mar 23, 2006 10:04 am PT
Review:  I am really sorry to say that this game is underated because overall this is a great game it has 
 great gameplay mechanics and a great control system because you can control the car with with the 
 touch screen which is a really neat idea and works well touch screen control has 2 modes stylus 
 and thumb strap both modes are mostly the same except the thumb strap mode is a little more senstive. 
 Using the thumb strap is actually really hard and is a lot easier to use and if you can master 
 it, it makes the game much more skillfull and enjoyable but if all this touch screen contol sounds 
 complicted and hard there is a normal control mode which is very easy to use
  
  Gameplay: It has really great gameplay and you need to be skilled to play the game the drifting 
 thing may sound like a small thing but it really makes a big difference, it makes going round corners 
 easier and puts some much needed skill into the racing and gamplay. Also the touch screen control 
 that i mentioned at the beginning of the review is used very well and if you can master it makes 
 the game easier for you 
  
  Graphics: The graphics are really nice and clean, the game always keeps a high frame rate which 
 makes the races really nice and when you are racing you always notice the scenery in the backround 
 which gives the game really nice effect. If you are reading this review you may have noticed the 
 i havent said anything bad about this game but dont worry its coming up. The real problem with 
 the game is that there are only really 3 tracks all the others are vairations on each of the 3 
 tracks which really lets the game down ALOT because after a while it can get boring.
  
  Sound: The other anoying thing about this game is the sound it stays the same for most of the game 
 but for some reason you dont really sceem to notice, beacuse you are too busy concentrating on 
 the tracks beacuse you need to. So the sound its not really a problem but if you are someone who 
 listens to the music you might find this anoying
  
  Value: The game is really great value for money even though it has a few problems this is mainly 
 because of the touch screen control it uses the ds's touch screen to its potential unlike any other 
 racing game on the DS. You really shoud'nt miss out because at the moment you can get it at a great 
 price
  
  Overall: Overall this is a really great game and for anybody who wants a good racing game on the 
 DS (apart from mario kart) should defintely not miss out. I think its a real shame that this game 
 is so underated beacuse it has loads or cars lots of vairations of cars, modes and tracks even 
 if they are only vairations this game will keep ypu playing your DS for ages so if i were you get 
 this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: CoolZaim
Rating: 4.5
Date: Mar 21, 2006 9:30 am PT
Review:  If you're looking for a racing gamne on the DS, do not get this game.
  
  Mainly, this game is just to boring. Easy to play but repititive and boring. It's much better on 
 the PSP.
  
  The graphics are two very, very great thngs about these games. These are really good. The graphics 
 are superb! The sound is fantastic for a DS game!
  
  Gameplay is poor. Totally stupid and not worth. Borting, repititive, so much things bad. 
  
 
  The game is quite hard and times. The design is very frustrating. Races are hard. Once you're 
 last, you stay there. The same cars mean that you can't catch up or fall more places behind. Which 
 is dumb.
  
  The whole game is just a total letdown.
  
  Do not get his ga, e. Not good for the DS. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Aviex
Rating: 8.6
Date: Mar 4, 2006 11:23 pm PT
Review:  Ridge racer was one of my first ds games. I wanted it because it was one of the only two racing 
 games on ds at that time, and also because i liked the game this is a remake of.
  
  Ridge Racer 64 was a great game, and it would be hard to disagree. The graphics looked good, the 
 cars were plentiful with a great color select system and there were plenty of tracks.
  
  All this was transfered into RRDS, as well as some updates. Some hits (the cars based on mario 
 and the songs were a great addition, and single card multiplayer really hits the spot) and some 
 miss's (can anyone actually control with the touch screen?) The difficulty was still hard, and 
 although the collision detect was bad, it wasn't as bad as people make it out to be.
  
  Still, i sold this game a while after i got mario kart, so if you get one racer, look past this 
 and get that. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Supadan
Rating: 5.2
Date: Mar 3, 2006 1:55 pm PT
Review:  Not really, it isn't really that good atall, the graphics are not very impressive compared to other 
 DS games such as Sper Mario 64 DS and Mario Kart DS and so on... which graphics are much better. 
 The tracks on the game are almost the same every time and level and it just gets more and more 
 boring the more you play it, i doubt it of you will really enjoy this game and i would definatley 
 advise you to rent it out first to see if you do or not... The main 2 reasons that it isn't a good 
 game are that the graphics are pretty well awefull and the tracks are almost the same for every 
 level of difficulty. The only good thing about the game is that it is very competitive and quite 
 a hard game to complete, thats about the only good thing i can thing of, see what you think... 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 0wn4g3_14094
Rating: 8.3
Date: Feb 18, 2006 7:32 pm PT
Review:  Ok, the game is a fast paced racing game, i liek the game, the graphics are awsome for nin ds, 
 the handling and stuff like that, all of it u can easily get used to, my one problem with the game 
 is the out-dated physics. If you hit a wall, u bounce backwards, and if ur still flooring it, like 
 i always do... u do it again, but at least unlike games like Need for Speed Most wanted, u can 
 get out of it, and back on track, the game is easy, at first, its easy as heck to beat the game, 
 but the games not over yet, u get the reverse xtra tracks, those r hard, cause its all backwards, 
 but they are a challenge, thats all i want in a game it a chellenge, a fun challenge, and this 
 game provides to my demands, personally, i enjoy this game, if i need to blow off 20 min, or an 
 hour or 2, or 3, this game is the easiest way to do it.
  
  I would say the game is definatly worth buying, and if they fixed the physics to mach todays standards, 
 it would be a perfect game, 10 out of 10, if i were you, i would get the game, but it didnt quite 
 make it to a must buy, but close. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lexmoona
Rating: 1.9
Date: Feb 3, 2006 1:50 pm PT
Review:  NAMCO, FACE IT, RIDGE RACER ISNT IN ANYMORE. MAYBE IN 1996. BUT NOT 2006. POOR CONTROL, POOR GRAPHICS, 
 AND THE ENVIORNMENTS ARE TERRIBLE! GET NEED FOR SPEED UNDERGROUND 2, ITS ACTUALLY THE SAME PRICE 
 $29.99, AND MUCH BETTER. EVEN ASPHALT URBAN GT IS BETTER AND ITS ONLY $19.99. I THINK THAT NAMCO 
 KNEW THAT EVERYONE WAS EXCITED ABOUT THE DS AT LAUNCH AND THE SAW THE PHRASE RIDGE RACER, SO THE 
 THOUGHT IT WAS A DECENT RACER TO START OUT WITH, HECKS NO. SAVE YOUR SELF FROM THIS LEMON. IT HAS 
 NO DS USES, UNLESS YOU WANT TO STEER WITH THE STYLUS, WHICH YOU MIGHT RISK DAMAGING THE LSD SCREEN. 
 THE CARS ALL LOOK THE SAME. SAME OLD, SAME OLD, AS I SAID EARLIER, SAVE YOURSELF.
  
  LEX FIELDS 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ALeeFan12
Rating: 4.6
Date: Jan 6, 2006 4:55 pm PT
Review:  This was my second game for the ds. I swear that this is barely different from the n64 version. 
 Well you can choose up to a couple of different cars. Lets talk about graphics. They suck. I thought 
 that this was like playing a nintendo 64 game. The game itself was boring. The races are very hard 
 and they just get worse. You always crash into the walls and it is impossible to win the race. 
 You don't even use the bottom screen at all. All you can use it for is to steer the car with the 
 pen. It is even harder to win the race. So as i would say they have been there done that a 4.6 
 out of 10. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Yuiitsu
Rating: 6
Date: Jan 5, 2006 10:01 am PT
Review:  Ridge racers Have hit the handheld consoles for the psp i think i they had done justice, for the 
 ds they didn't quite impress me, the psp version looks more sleek and the colours were nicer sound 
 was better, the graphics is a different story altogether.
  
  Graphics:
  The scenery through ridge racers is very bricky and something a gameboy advance would set out to 
 do, the cars arre also very bricky and when your driving through tracks you could hit the walls 
 and the car wouldnt touch the walls it would almost bounce off an invisible wall so in the end 
 it doesnt touch the walls do ya get me.
  
  Gameplay:
  The gameplay isnt flawless but it could keep you gaming for quite a long time, there are a number 
 of tracks in the game it i suppose it would keep you going for a bit, there also unlockable cars 
 and then tracks when it comes to cars, when the cars are on the road you just dont feel that sense 
 of speed
  
  Sound:
  The sound is really not impressive to me i recon they could have done much better. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Geek12
Rating: 6
Date: Dec 31, 2005 7:43 pm PT
Review:  If you just got a nintendo ds, stick to other, better launch titles like mario 64. Heres why
  
  Driving phyics- Turning is horrible in this game, you go to a corner. let go of the gas, and 
 gas it agian, boom you around the corner. Yep, its that bad. As for normal driving the contorls 
 are way to responsive. You hit left and it swervs left, then comes another part of the bad phyics, 
 crashing. you hear this bshh noise and you spin out, swerve ect.
  
  Graphics- There ok for the ds, not bad
  
  Cars- The cars are nice, they all have certian specs 
 which is nice.
  
  Tracks- They only have like 9 tracks, every thing else is a version of thoes tracks.
  
  Sound- 
 The sound is ok, nuthing new, nuthing i havent heard before. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: shadow_mirage
Rating: 6.3
Date: Dec 30, 2005 12:03 pm PT
Review:  Ridge Racer DS. This could have been great if they actually tried to use the DS's capabilities 
 instead of porting it from the N64. But we get a poor version for a rushed launch. Here's the lackluster 
 review.
  
  Gameplay: 5/10 - Clunky and out-dated. Even the touch screen control is better.
  
  Graphics: 
 7/10 - For a launch title this game has mediocre graphics. If namco actually tried, they could 
 have had a much better game on their hands.
  
  Sound: 8/10 - One of the best things about this game is it's sound. That's not saying much.
  
 
  Value: 8/10 - Unlocking all the cars and multiplayer should keep you busy for a while, if you're 
 still playing it for that long.
  
  Tilt: 6/10 - A sad excuse of a game. Namco wanted some quick cash and got what they wanted. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Turketron
Rating: 5
Date: Dec 29, 2005 4:35 pm PT
Review:  i played this game on a friend's DS once, and i have to say, it stinks. all the cars have horrible 
 handling, and the graphics were mediocre at best. if you want a good racing game for DS get asphalt 
 urban GT, or even better, mario kart. the sound wasn't bad, and the gameplay modes were okay, but 
 the rest of the game thoroughly disappointed me. mostly what made it really bad was the handling. 
 it seemed hard to steer, and the collision detection was laughable. if you find it used for cheap, 
 go ahead, but don't expect too much. overall i give it a 5. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gregarok
Rating: 5
Date: Dec 29, 2005 3:28 pm PT
Review:  Hello!
  
  I got this game, when I bought DS from somebody. The game itself is nothing special and it is far 
 from a good game. The gameplay is very bad (you just hit the wall and you are at 0 mp/h) and the 
 tracks are so similar and they aren't interesting! Far from this! It's always the same example: 
 1. Track, 2. Track with added few curves, 3. Track with added few cuves and backward... So... Does 
 it sound like it is interesting? I'm sure it doesn't! UI is stupid and I hate, when I hit the oponnent's 
 car in the back... He get some aditional speed and my car lost it's all speed... 
  
  Ridge Racer DS is not worth of money you have to pay for it :) Programmers should really think 
 about it and spent some aditional hours for doing this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nanabasher999
Rating: 9.3
Date: Dec 20, 2005 8:16 am PT
Review:  The nice screenshots of this game (ridge racer for the nintendo ds) and the wonderful videos make 
 you want to think
  "Oh yeah! Id like to play that on my ds!"
  Its ok for a while but WAY more effort should of gone into it, I like the 6 player and one game 
 card multiplayer because its fun to challenge your friends, The only way i would even reccomend 
 ridge racer DS to you would be if your friend had it then you can leach of him, Or if its a gift 
 or a everyone put money together kind of present. But other than that its a ok game, Id say its 
 worth buying when it goes down in price or you see it preowned for about 15.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Tekmazter
Rating: 6.8
Date: Dec 16, 2005 12:07 pm PT
Review:  To be honest here, I wasn't sure what to expect when I picked up this game. I k new it wouldn't 
 be like Underground and because it's been so long since I've been into anything other than the 
 NFS series of racers, I think perhaps I forgot what it was like to just have a fast and fun little 
 racer game that you can just pop in and get some good action out of any time you feel like it.
 
  
  This game is not at all complcated and you'll see that from the first time you try it. This game 
 is just fun with not a lot of strategy involved. In 10 minutes you're pretty much on your way to 
 conquering what this game has to offer. Gameplay is somewhat unrealistic, but when it comes to 
 racers, how many of us really do 180mph down city streets while crashing into walls? My point, 
 don't expect an in-depth racing game here. This is for lack of a better word, SIMPLE in gameplay 
 and design. The graphics are colorful enough to catch your eye and the controls are easy to master. 
 
  
  This is a good rental and if you like it enough, BUY IT 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: JetStreak
Rating: 5.1
Date: Dec 9, 2005 2:35 pm PT
Review:  I got this as one of the launch titles.. First I must say that the main reason that I bought the 
 DS was for the touchscreen.. suppoadly your suppost to have "total control".. This is impossible. 
 You can't steer the car and hold the accellerator at the same time.. it is IMPOSSIBLE! 
  
  You absolutely have to set the controls to the DPAD to win a race. Which ruins the whole point 
 in having a DS. This is rediculous. 
  
  This is a waste of money. and you will never beat it using the touchscreen. 
  
  So unless you 
 are extremely good at finger acrobatics and believe that you can steer a car while stretching your 
 hand across the DS while holding the accellerator and the DS at the same time.. Go for it.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: YaMissed2
Rating: 5.4
Date: Dec 7, 2005 7:28 pm PT
Review:  Review: Ridge Racer DS
  
  Back when the PS1 launched, Ridge Racer was the first game that I bought for it (but was it really 
 worth the trade in for Chrono Trigger, and Super Mario RPG? Well I got them both again so it is 
 all good) I loved that game and bought most of the subsequent sequels. About the time that R4 (Ridge 
 Racer 4) came out they poorly ported the first Ridge Racer to the N64. I have heard the DS version 
 of Ridge Racer compared to the N64 version (I have both versions so I can do a head to head) , so 
 how close is that statement?
  
  Story:
  Ridge Racer is an arcade style racing game, so as with all racing games you are out to prove you 
 are the best racer in the world, while unlocking cars and stages along the way.
  
  Graphics:
  Wow what can I say? Craptacular I think fits the mold perfectly, this is supposed 
 to be a port of the original game, and well the N64 version looks better than this game. this game 
 looks worse than the PS1 version, and they both looked worse than the original arcade game. I mean 
 that even Super Mario 64 went through a graphical update when they ported it to the DS. Did Namco 
 just not care when they brought the game to the DS, or were they too busy tweaking the PSP Ridge 
 Racer to bother doing anything for the DS version
  
  Music:
  The music is vintage Ridge Racer, and stays true to the series, how ever you would have thought 
 that they could have added a few new musical tracks to this aging title, to mix things up a little
 
  
  Game Play:
  Have you ever played a ridge racer game? If you have then you know what to expect from this title. 
 This is a good thing you will find yourself playing this game, out of sheer love for the original 
 design. The creators had the foresight to add a new feature though. The folks at Namco allow you 
 to use the touch screen to steer your car, however you will find yourself ignoring the feature 
 all together and using your D-Pad instead because it is simply easier to steer with
  your D-Pad, than your stylus and drive your car
  
  Design:
  Other than the steering wheel 
 stylus option Namco did almost no design changes to this game at all. Shame on you guys! Do you 
 care about any other platform but Sony platforms lately?
  
  DS owners, if you are desperate for a racing game on your DS, buy Mario Kart DS. Unless you are 
 looking for a nostalgic throwback don't even look in this games general direction. This is the 
 worst game I have played in 2 years. Avoid this game at all costs!
  
  Ridge Racer DS:
  
  Pros:
  Steering wheel Idea is cool
  
  Cons:
  Bad graphics
  Bad port of a 10+ year 
 old game
  Where is the design?
  Steering wheel idea is cool, but not practical
  This game is not worth $5 let alone $25 
::::::

::::::
UserName: firebladedx
Rating: 3
Date: Nov 28, 2005 3:41 am PT
Review:  This is one HARD game, its my second ridge racer game ive ever baught since Ridge Racer 4 on the 
 PS1.
  Ok first impression of this game, graphics are ok but really a lot less than standard so i wasnt 
 very impressed by that. The main thing is the glitches though, i mean wow they are incrediblely 
 bad. Example if your own a straight and about to win, the car rear ends you, sends you flying back 
 to 12th and then he passes straight through you along with all the other cars. At this point your 
 restraining yourself from throwing it out the window.
  The gameplay is also extremely hard, i still havnt completed it and ive owned it since christmas 
 2004. You cant complete it if you crash once, ive pretty much given up on it now, i just play burnout 
 legends lol. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: R-Dogg
Rating: 3.7
Date: Nov 15, 2005 5:52 pm PT
Review:  this has to be one of the saddest games for DS besides the fact that is on DS. ridge racer expects 
 u to use the touch pad to steer a wheel while holding buttons to accellerate the car. the rewards 
 in this game r a dissapointment, all they do is flip the track around and all the kool cars have 
 to be unlocked trew multiplayer. it has very poor graphics and no real reason to race. this game 
 is too hard because like in many racing games u start at the back, and because all the racers have 
 much better cars then u. ur expected to get first every time and doesnt except 2nd or 3rd. in the 
 beginning of each race ur supposed to pick a style where nowhere in the game or booklet that comes 
 with does it tell u anything about it. this game is not worth buying and is a WASTE of $. dont 
 buy it unless u know what ur getting into. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Ankhwatcher
Rating: 8.1
Date: Nov 15, 2005 4:18 pm PT
Review:  I going to start of by admitting something... I love ridge racer DS.
  And another thing... I really hate and despise Need For Speed Underground 2 DS.
  I have owned 
 both games, I had Need For Speed for about a week before i traded it in. But enough about the seeping 
 cess pit.
  
  Ridge Racer is good on-the-go arcade racer fun, Its a game that is unbreakable until you learn 
 the courses.
  As soon as you know when to let off the accelerator and when to loll to the left, your in the sweet 
 spot.
  The essential objective of Ridge Racer is to get the fastest car possible and avoid hitting the 
 sides of the course. Do this and you'll meet unmitigated success.
  The courses get steadily more complicated till this simple objective becomes nearly impossible.
 
  This is perfect if you want to spend ages working at a game until you reach a position where you 
 cannot be beaten. In that sense it is like an RPG in your own head.
  
  The worst feature of Ridge Racer DS is the retarded touch-screen based control system... its completely 
 pointless.
  As someone who plays Gran Turismo using the d-pad I firmly believe that simple eight directional 
 controls are all you need to play a racing game.
  The second worst feature is the all that rubbish during the start up! 
  I want to drive my car!
 
  And finally if I could change one thing about the game it would be to make the "Quick Race" option 
 (which puts you in a short 12 man race from one of the early levels) a little harder, its ridiculously 
 easy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kooliomatie
Rating: 6
Date: Oct 15, 2005 4:27 pm PT
Review:  The game was fun while it lasted. The cars were good but could have been better. The sound was 
 just like any other car game. The multiplayer wasn't very good. It would have been better if you 
 could use any car that you had unlocked but instead you could only use the custom cars which aren't 
 very good. 
  
  My overal experience was good but I wouldn't reccommend this racing game for DS. If Ridge Racer 
 makes another version I won't buy it unless it were different and someone highly reccommened it.
 
  
  DON'T BUY THIS GAME UNLESS YOU ARE DESPARATE!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cheezisgoooood
Rating: 7.3
Date: Jul 9, 2005 8:34 pm PT
Review:  Ridge Racer for the DS is a remake of the N64 game by the same name. This game is pretty easy, 
 until the last few stages, which is the same case for the PSP game. Yes, it's true, the PSP version 
 is undeniably superior, but having beaten both, and enjoyed both, I can say that the DS version 
 really isn't all that bad. Its drifing system is dated, and it doesn't have nitrous boosts, but 
 it's a racing game with a challenge, and a neat idea of having a steering wheel controllable with 
 the touch-screen, which I used to beat the game in its entirety.
  
  The touch-screen controlled wheel option is a neat idea, but it's a tad overly-sensitive, and may 
 be a bit too awkward for some people used to using an analog stick on their Xbox or PS2 (or PSP 
 for that matter) . Like all Ridge Racer games, there's really only a baker's dozen of tracks to 
 play on, and the rest of the game is consisted of slight tweaks in the track, and reverse versions 
 of those tracks. The scenery mainly stays the same. All you really need to do to beat this game 
 %100 is beat all the races in the main single player campaign, because there aren't any extra single 
 player modes to gain extra medals or cars or tracks.
  
  Playing just a few rounds of multiplayer with your friends is a big pay-off, because I practically 
 beat the game with a car I gained from playing a few minutes of multiplayer with a friend. The 
 multiplayer is good, but I find it kind of boring, because I never ever lose to anyone. That's 
 the same case with Ridge Racer PSP, though, so no big deal. If you have a friend who's competitive 
 in the game, you might find there's a lot to enjoy in the multiplayer mode. You only need one card 
 to play multiplayer with a friend, but you need multiple game cards to be able to play with any 
 car the two of you have unlocked. The game was almost impossibly hard to beat on %100 in the original 
 64 game, and it still is on the DS, only harder because of the touch-sensitive wheel. I managed 
 to do it, though, I managed to beat it, and it was a very satisfying victory after weeks of passing 
 time by with this game.
  
  If you want a racing game that doesn't really need anything special to entertain you, or you're 
 really intrigued by the touch-screen wheel that takes time to get used to, and you also want a 
 challenging racing game, Ridge Racer DS is a good choice for you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Kuchinator_7
Rating: 5.8
Date: Jun 29, 2005 5:47 pm PT
Review:  If you are a fan of racing games and own a DS you likely might want ridge racer. My warning is 
 to stay away, at least until it takes a significant price drop.
  There is a bit on depth to the gameplay, but it all goes to waste as the controls are horrible. 
 The touch screen control is interesting but very impracticle, they just don't feel right or work 
 that well. You will likely end up just using the D-pad, but even that doesn't work because it turns 
 to quickly and the in game control was designed for anologe control so it just becomes frusterating.
 
  The graphics look nice and there are some cool shine effects but nothing spectacular. The sound 
 is fine as well. In the end this game just wasn't that fun because of bad control. The only reason 
 I could see a reason to purcase this game would be for the multiplayer which isn't to bad, but 
 otherwise I would recomend you buy Asphault Urban GT or Need for Speed Underground. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: PeteW126
Rating: 3.5
Date: Jun 16, 2005 9:09 am PT
Review:  as that is the only possible reason to release this game. The NintendoDS is going head to head 
 with the PSP, and the comparison between Ridge Racer on the two systems is night and day. The DS 
 graphics are muddy, and dare I say it - cartoon like. Compare this to Ridge Racer on the PSP, and 
 you have a game with stunning graphics, great sound and excellent gameplay. None of those elements 
 exist in the DS Ridge Racer title. While the gameplay is markedly different between the two versions, 
 the differences in graphic quality, gameplay and sound alone are more than enough to doom this 
 title. If you want Ridge Racer on a handheld system, PSP is your only choice. Avoid this one like 
 the plague. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mariokart64fan
Rating: 9.6
Date: Mar 30, 2005 1:25 am PT
Review:  game play the game play is plain and simple but fun at the same time dlots of cars and tracks for 
 one person to say its not good 
  
  sound good sound effects the music is to repetitive but should not get in the way of the game and 
 fun
  
  graphics by far the best racing game yet next to asphalt urban gt and twisted metal for the psp 
 so it may have its problems but its not all bad 
  
  value lots of cars tracks and single card multiplayer (asphALT didnt even offer that!) and the 
 price is suitable for it 
  
  tilt go buy a DS before you buy a psp i asure you nintendo did right and has any games like this 
 one 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sockdude
Rating: 5.8
Date: Mar 29, 2005 9:58 pm PT
Review:  It wasn't the most talked about game back in it's N64 days, so its very unlikely that it would 
 be this time around either.
  The controls are irritating, even if you stick with the game with the attitude that goes like "I'll 
 get used to it eventually" ... what does the game do? ... makes a course where you can do nothing 
 but crash, with loads of turns within 10 secs, so even if you did get used to the controls, by 
 the time you get to that level you would put you DS back down!!
  This game was obviously a hope to make money by selling it alongside the first sales of the DS, 
 and by adding the touch screen steering, I can only assume they were trying to get people intrigued 
 ... beware of this, the touch screen steering is, although intriguing, the most uncomfortable steering 
 imaginable: on an easy course it can work fine, but as you reach harder levels it can't seem to 
 turn corners well so you end up never using it again.
  The interface is simple enough to use with the touch screen, which makes it quick to navigate ... 
 the graphics are good, but not great. The courses are surreal: there is no evidence of roads leading 
 away from the courses such as you may find in Asphault, so how do all those cars get there in the 
 first place? At least Asphault makes some sence!
  Oh, if you want to get the game anyway, remember to turn of the guy who just yaks all the way through 
 the game ... when you doing the last stretch, its him who you'll be iritated with at the end of 
 the day because he'll distract you easily.
  The one thing that I have not experienced is multiplayer ... you'll have to judge that for yourselves. 
 It depends if your playing with competitive people!!
  This game seems like an ex-arcade game, but not really suitable for the home consoles or travel 
 consoles.
  And as for learning curves: I think I mentioned a lot about the awkward controls so you never actually 
 learn the full controls.
  As for gameplay, the only reason why you would want to continue playing is that you hope the next 
 level is better! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: slapshakle
Rating: 5.1
Date: Mar 15, 2005 8:51 am PT
Review:  Ridge Racer huh? What can I say about this game?
  
  The first thing you will notice while playing this game is how horrible the graphics are, they 
 are just disgusting. Another thing youll notice is how poorly the cars handle, even the famous 
 powerslides dont seem to work very well. The crash detection is awful, sometimes you are 5 meters 
 away from a rival. Then BANG you stop dead in your tracks, other times you go straight through 
 the other cars. This game feels very rushed with little or no care towards how the game feels. 
 The tracks are ok, nothing special. The sound is ok, but the commentator is extremely annoying. 
 Dont bother with this game, wait for a better racing game or just stick with burnout3 on a home 
 console.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: falconclan
Rating: 8.9
Date: Mar 5, 2005 5:38 pm PT
Review:  the ridge racer series has been around for a while now. the original ridge racer came out for the 
 ps1 and became an instant classic. next it made one rr game for the n64 for the nintendo people 
 who havent ever played it before its a real treat. Many years later it comes out for the ds. To 
 me it is a great game. its BASICALY a port from the n64 version but there are a few more courses 
 and cars. after you start playing you'll notice the beautiful graphics and the wide range of car 
 abilities (how fast, acceleratin, etc.) and models. as you start racing its a very fast paced racer. 
 if you slow down for a second 5 cars could pass you. the only flaw of gameplay is the hit sensory. 
 for one thing you can go half-way through a car before it registers as a hit. after you hit the 
 other car you have the potential to slow down a lot and fly back about 20 feet. This is not a huge 
 problem because the other cars sometimes ram into walls or other cars so you get enough chances 
 to catch up. The gameplay is a basic ridge racer style with the drifting-9. at the beggining of 
 every race you have the chance to pick between a lot of techno songs. yeah techno isnt really my 
 style but for this game it really puts the mood in. The graphics are probrably in the top 2 of 
 the ds catagory. it is the first game for the ds to feature any type of reflection and reality 
 to it. I give it a nine because the only flaw in graphics are the cars. which you dont look at 
 much anyway. The value is great if you have a friend. in fact it kicks a lil. Its pretty awesome 
 since there are so many courses, cars, and modes. you can also unlock cars through multiplayer. 
 Im not sure exactly how you do this but im sure it works for a lot of people. i think it is the 
 most underappreciated game on the ds! id really recomend this to any ds owner. 
  
  p. s. the difficulty is actualy very variable. at times it will be very easy and then you go to 
 the next course and its very hard... keep this in mind because it can get very frustrating.
  
  ~falcon~ 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MrCHUP0N
Rating: 5.3
Date: Nov 30, 2005 11:41 am PT
Review:  [This review originally appears on TRIGAMES. NET. This has been edited from its first iteration, 
 as the more I played this, the more negative my opinion has become.]
  
  This review has been modified from its original version. It has been formatted to fit a more realistic 
 assessment of this game. Thank you and enjoy your drinks.
  
  Ridge Racer came out for the original Playstation as a launch title, and instantly became one of 
 the fan favorites. Several iterations later and a fifth official sequel on the Playstation 2, and 
 Ridge Racer games once again are poised to become launch titles: this past November of 2004 in 
 the form of Ridge Racer DS, and in March of 2005 for the PSP in the form of Ridge Racers. With 
 a neat touch-wheel idea and smooth graphics, how does the Nintendo DS version fare?
  
  It fares... not so well. Among the favorable traits of Ridge Racer DS were the relatively nice 
 visuals, catchy music, the one-card Wi-Fi play, and traditional Ridge Racer action that fans have 
 come to know and love. Among the well, clunker traits, were the drunken touch-wheel controls, the 
 almost equally inept d-pad controls, and collision detection... and for N64 vets, the fact that 
 it's the same game as the N64 version. Before I continue, a note: I never played the N64 version 
 going into this, so this review is free of pre-played experiences.
  
  Let's break it down. I've heard that the game's visuals are "teh suk". I don't personally think 
 so. It does indeed look like an N64 game, but it manages to look a bit less blocky than most N64 
 games I've seen. Of course, the lack of texture filtering makes the texture quality look near-PSone 
 quality, but I can't ignore how smoothly this game runs. It never skips a beat, running constantly 
 at what looks like 60 frames a second. The cars look pretty decent when looking at their profile, 
 and the tracks have a fair amount of detail and believability to them.
  
  The sound one-ups the graphics, in my opinion, with catchy electronic tunes reminiscent of the 
 ones you'd hear in -- well -- other Ridge Racer games (like R4: Ridge Racer Type 4) . And they aren't 
 watered down "portable wannabe" hack jobs either -- the DS sound chip comes through nicely. The 
 one annoying thing? Mostly it's because I'm inept at racing, but hearing the same exact crash sound 
 over and over again becomes grating and monotonous.
  
  The gameplay is unfortunately where I start to throw the game card at the wall. The same racing 
 action from Ridge Racer games is there, in terms of the difficult but fun courses and the outrageous 
 power-sliding. Starting off, using the D-pad to steer isn't nearly as bad as one would think for 
 a 3D racer meant for an analog stick - but as I progressed further and further into the game, the 
 d-pad's ineptitude came through and proceeded to frustrate me to no end. When there are many small, 
 quick, twisty curves immediately after the other, I was sent careening into the sides of the course 
 because the d-pad was way, way too sensitive.
  
  Let's talk about the touch wheel, the main reason why I initially got this over the other DS racer, 
 Asphalt: Urban GT. I imagined the touch wheel to function sort of like the iPod. It'd actually 
 be a full wheel on the screen, and rolling your thumb clockwise would be steering right; rolling 
 counter-clockwise would be steering left. As it is, all you're afforded is simple left-to-right 
 movement. In Stylus mode, the screen has a definite center point; depending on where you touch 
 the screen with the stylus or thumb shoe, your car would turn the appropriate amount. In the thumb 
 shoe mode, your initial point of contact becomes your center point (the method I favored) .
  
  This would have been fine, except for the wheel's sensitivity. There's a very small, sharp 
 curve for when your slight, careful turns become large swerves, in both cases; in other words, 
 the acceleration is too high. If you were to slowly drag your thumb/stylus on the screen to the 
 left or right, you'd notice a slight turn becoming a really wide turn way too quickly. It's as 
 if there was no middle ground to speak of. This makes maneuvering around sharper corners a chore, 
 because who knows how wide or sharp your car is going to turn?
  
  That's the worst part of the gameplay, and given what I experienced with the D-pad, there just 
 seems to be no ideal way to drive. There's still the questionable collision to deal with, and while 
 it also isn't horrible on its own merits, the shoddy steering compounds how nasty the collision 
 can get. When you collide with cars, unless you are entirely in front of them, it seems to bump 
 you back a little bit -- as if the car were directly in front of you. You have to be absolutely 
 ahead of the car. This makes getting around other vehicles very troublesome, and even moreso when 
 you factor in the strange behavior of the course walls.
  
  Sure, you're supposed to get hit hard when you veer into a wall. That's physics. What's *not* physics 
 is seeing that same behavior happen when the side of the road isn't a wall, but merely a very small 
 incline with some weeds and dirt. I expect to slow down when I veer into the side-road, not feel 
 a huge bump as if it were a mountainside.
  
  There's enough to like about Ridge Racer DS were it not for the absolutely maimed steering. I like 
 the track variety (you even get to race through them backwards just when you think you're done) , 
 and I like chasing after cars in Car Attack in order to unlock them. There is basically one car 
 for every race, and you get to attempt to unlock a set of three for every three races you finish. 
 The downside is that many of these cars have identical or near-identical performance ratings.
 
  
  Furthermore, the single-card Wi-Fi play is a definite plus. A single minute of downloading, and 
 your friend is ready to choose from all the cars and tracks that you unlocked, in a mano-e-mano 
 race to the finish line. More like a  race, since it supports 
 up to six players wirelessly.
  
  All in all, my experience playing Ridge Racer DS went from alright to downright upsetting in 60 
 seconds. It could have been more polished, the variety of car behavior should have been increased 
 by a lot, the touch wheel really could have benefited from more tweaking and given how the handling 
 is coded the d-pad simply does not offer an ideal level of control. If you need to experience this 
 game, do it on the N64 where I'm sure the analog stick makes things worlds better. Want a non-kart 
 racing game for your DS? Get Asphalt: Urban GT instead. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Jak2k5
Rating: 7.4
Date: Feb 4, 2005 4:50 am PT
Review:  Yeah maybe, not as big as graphics as its PSP cousin but its still pretty good graphics. The controls 
 dont seem that bad to me but I use the stylus control setup which I found the easiest to control. 
 In this game though the point is not to hit any cars since you will go flying back and end up in 
 last place. However it is realy easy to get ahead of people. But still this game is ok for a Nintendo 
 DS Launch game so its worth a try plus its only $29.96. So overall its a good game but if your 
 not into racing games you should skip this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ffmusicdj
Rating: 4.1
Date: Jan 16, 2005 2:35 pm PT
Review:  Three words to describe this game, "I hated it".
  First off, it's very hard; the controls on the d-pad are just rough. 
  The sliding car feature 
 in the game is horrible. 
  And error checks and if statements are the worst capable system I have ever played in a DS game; 
 let me explain.
  
  I'm driving to the finish line, and I'm very close to finishing, when a car from the side of me 
 hits my vehicle, and because of bad error checking, I either get THROWN back or pushed behind the 
 driver that just hit my rear! Eventually costing me the race! If I hit the wall, I scrape my car 
 on the wall; I get pushed back, reducing my car's speed. It's horrible. 
  
  Please be cautious, that this game cost me $40! Now I moan for the money I lost. I wish someone 
 would have told me that this game was this horrible.
  
  The gamespot review doesnt do justice. 
  
  P. S. The audio music is mono! I dont know why, 
 maybe because they couldn't load in stereo music on the small DS ram. Whatever the case may be, 
 it had horrible mono music when it was capable of playing stereo. Mono music should be banned form 
 Ridge Racer games. 
  
  And I really wish someone told me about these HUGE flaws before I went to the store and paid $40 
 for this game, it shouldn't even be worth $15.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: -Sniper99-
Rating: 9.6
Date: Jan 4, 2005 9:56 pm PT
Review:  This game is a fun game to have on the go! Do you know why? It is soo fun and arcadey that you 
 won't be able to leave the house without it! The graphics are sweet! The game might gtet a little 
 repettstive compared to Asphalt, but I still think it is a great game! Now, once you've played 
 Single player to death, why not go try some off the very fun multiplayer? I love it how you only 
 need one game pak! Now, the controls might need a little gettin used to and I hate using the touch 
 screen to steer! Other then that, there are no problems with the game! 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
