-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Robocalypse
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/ds/strategy/roborevoltrobocalypsenow/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 Humorous story and characters.
 Tight controls and great use of the touch screen.
 Varied and memorable unit types.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 Clumsy and frustrating AI.
 Limited multiplayer match types.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Dec 18, 2008
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 7.5
Critic Score: 7.9, 15 Review (s)
User Score: 7.8, 38 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Vogster
Genre: Sci-Fi Real-Time Strategy
Date: Nov 17, 2008
ESRB: Everyone 10+

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Help save the human race from evil robots in this funny and satisfying strategy game for the DS. 
 

  Robocalypse is a welcome entry on the short list of DS real-time strategy games, balancing a mix 
 of classic real-time strategy gameplay and cartoon-style graphics and humor, as well as incorporating 
 an intuitive control system. The game opens with a mishap at the Thermidoom Factory, maker of military 
 robots and toasters. Somehow, a group of these robots goes rogue and, led by the evil Demolisher, 
 swears to annihilate the human race. The factory's nerdy scientist and buxom PR director quickly 
 create a robotic army of their own and furnish them with the minds of a few World War II veterans 
 who just happened to be taking a free tour of the facility at the time. The story that unfolds, 
 penned by the talent behind  SpongeBob SquarePants , only gets goofier and more absurdly humorous 
 from there.  

  The balance between this humor and the enjoyable gameplay makes for a satisfying RTS. The story 
 mode is composed of many missions that have a handful of varying objectives but the same basic 
 structure. At mission start, you are given a base, a builder/collector unit, and a couple of battle 
 grunts. The object is to use your resources, which in this case are metal scraps and batteries, 
 to build up your army and base. The buildings available can be built only on specific "pods," which 
 significantly limits the size of your base and forces you to manage your choices more closely. 
 The variety of buildings is also limited.  

           You can use the map screen to better navigate around the battlefield.      

  Luckily, 
 this lack of depth is balanced out by the assortment of units at your disposal. Besides the basic 
 soldier units, there are many different types of robots to build. Medic units follow the soldiers 
 around and heal them over time, even during open conflict. Heavy soldier units are slower but pack 
 quite a punch. As the battle rages, units that survive over a certain number of encounters will 
 attain higher ranks, which are indicated next to the unit's health bar. This ranking system increases 
 a unit's damage threshold and attack power, and it's exciting to watch your warriors level up as 
 the battle progresses.  

  Hero class characters are your most valuable units. Unlike their generic counterparts, the heroes 
 have distinct characteristics and abilities and can be directly controlled. These units vary from 
 Joe Commando, the dual-chaingun-wielding powerhouse, to Spyder, the scout who can turn enemies 
 into large, immobile home appliances. The most satisfying of these heroes are the sergeant and 
 the general. These two hero units can command a small platoon of regular units and also give the 
 platoon special attributes. These heroes make managing your force a tad more efficient. You can 
 have only three hero units on the map at once, which, like the limitations on building, makes choosing 
 units more critical.  

  The game's controls are wonderfully attuned to the strengths of the DS. The touch screen is used 
 exclusively, which addresses the needs of the RTS genre very well. Tapping on the various icons 
 and buildings on the screen works much like a mouse pointer in PC strategy games, bringing up interactive 
 menus and command options. However, where Robocalypse differs from the classic RTS control scheme 
 is in its troop management system. It is not possible to command regular units individually, but 
 the game intelligently offers you alternatives. Robocalypse integrates an "action flag" system 
 for all different types of unit commands. You tap the action icon that is ever present on the battle 
 map and then issue context-sensitive commands. For instance, if you tap a region on the map, troops 
 will rally to that point and either search or defend it. By tapping a damaged building or unit, 
 a healing unit will make that target a priority. As a whole, this system works well enough to create 
 a fluid and enjoyable experience.  

  Nevertheless, the control system certainly has its shortcomings -- mainly due to the clunky AI of 
 the units. Frequently, only some units will respond to your rally points or targets, and others 
 will be milling about aimlessly, often into enemy territory. It can be difficult to achieve your 
 mission goals when half of your robo-force goes on unintentional suicide missions or stays back 
 at base while the rest of the soldiers on the front need backup. These situations occur often enough 
 to make them frustrating. The direct control of the hero units alleviates the AI issues to some 
 degree, but not entirely.  

           Apparently the robot soldiers have censorship chips built into their hardware.      

 
  There are only two multiplayer modes, which thankfully retain the intuitive controls and pleasing 
 gameplay of the story mode. In Domination, you scramble to capture and hold more control points 
 than your opponent. Holding points will slowly add to your total score, and victory is achieved 
 when this total reaches 1,000. Deathmatch, on the other hand, is a bit more straightforward. The 
 object is to amass an army large enough to overpower your enemies' army and destroy each HQ. Although 
 your objectives sound familiar, the humor makes the experience feel fresh, completely changing 
 the typical tone of war. Both modes support up to four players, and the AI assumes control of any 
 armies without a human commander. The multiplayer runs very smoothly, with rare slowdown. Unfortunately, 
 there is no option for single-card download play, but the option to play against computer opponents 
 goes some way to making up for it.  

  Robocalypse looks great, with visuals that evoke memories of childhood cartoons. Characters move 
 smoothly, and even on the small DS screens the action on the battlefield is never confusing and 
 the information on the maps is easy to read. Equally as strong, the sound fits into the game nicely. 
 Menacing, ominous music seems ripped right out of a cartoon score and complements the action well. 
 It can get a bit repetitive, but games usually do not last long enough for the music to grow irritating. 
 The sound effects are also good, mixing the gunshots and explosions with the silly screams of robots 
 being destroyed. The hero units also occasionally yell their own personal catchphrases, which are 
 campy, but fun.  

  If you're in the market for a new real-time strategy game on the DS, Robocalypse's tight controls, 
 enjoyable gameplay, and humorous story make it a good choice. It's a shame that there aren't more 
 multiplayer modes to keep you entertained after you've played through the story, but all good things 
 have to come to an end at some point.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (2 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: muradk77
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 24, 2008 4:56 pm PT
Review:  i dont know what the other reviewers are talking about. i think this game is good old fun robot 
 on robot butt kicking. i must say that i am 70% PC gamer, 25% PS3 gamer and 5% DS gamer. i never 
 found really addicting exciting game for DS until now. there is no other game like that on the 
 DS, so u cant really compare it to anything else. yes there some small shortcomings (every individual 
 player has different preferences) bur overall i love it. the action, the controls, the cartoonish 
 graphics, the busty girl     they all came together for me, especially after my buddy and i got 
 into the multiplayer mode. thank God we sit all the way in the back of our office or we would be 
 soooo fired 8) . again GREAT RTS game for DS (ima stressing it again DS RTS do not compare it to 
 PC RTS or PS3 RTS)       GET IT      ENJOY IT 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Gatcho
Rating: 7
Date: Dec 11, 2008 6:05 pm PT
Review:  Early impressions...
  
  One would think that the DS is probably going to be flooded with RTS games to take advantage of 
 its touchscreen controls. It's however surprising that most strategy games in the DS is turn-based. 
 Though games like Advance Wars succeeded on that particular genre, Robocalypse seems to want to 
 have a piece of the pie and establish itself as an excellent RTS game.
  
  The game starts off by giving you a cartoony video clip that will give you an idea on how and why 
 the robots have gone amok etc. You will be then thrown in a well made tutorial informing you how 
 to command your units and create buildings. Controlling your units is done by issuing "command 
 flags". If you issue a defend command for example, a couple of your units will automatically defend 
 that position. Same thing will happen if you issue a different command request. It usually works 
 but the lack of capability to issue specific request to a single unit (with the exception of a 
 few units like Heroes) can sometimes become a problem because half of the decision is going to 
 be made by the computer's AI. Speaking of which, the AI isn't all that sharp and there will be 
 times that you'll see them standing around while your base is being attacked just a few meters 
 away from where they are standing. Resource gatherers however does a good job of automatically 
 repairing damaged buildings and automatically switches back to their previous task of resource 
 gathering when done. Same can also be said with medics that heals damaged units.
  
  Base creation is also something that you do not have total control of because you can only build 
 your base on predefined areas on the map. So if you're one of the guys that strategically places 
 their buildings on specific areas on the map, well ... tough luck because the game will not let 
 you do so. And although the developers might have a good reason for doing this. In my opinion its 
 their way of making the AI know exactly where to attack. Which is in some way a form of cheating 
 but makes the game a bit more challenging at the same time.
  
  Graphics is okay, nothing spectacular. Everything is in 2d but you'll get the feeling that the 
 game could have done a better job with the environment because it's already leaning towards the 
 pixelated side. Sound effects is okay, kinda flat though. And you won't get any speech when you 
 select your units, all you get is a pop-up balloon on top of their heads as they throw out (sometimes) 
 funny one-liners etc. You'll get a couple of grunts like "aww" and a few warning sounds like "base 
 is under attack" but there's only a handful of those that you'll hear in the game so its quite 
 hard to feel immersed while playing.
  
  Overall, I feel like this game could have been better ... well, a lot better. Yes it would have 
 been a little bit tough to issue control per single unit but forcing the game to group units on 
 its own is in my opinion a bad idea since it takes a good chunk of strategy out of the game. I 
 often times feel like I only have half of the control over my units because the game takes control 
 of other things. Add to that the not so impressive looking graphics and audio, you'll end up with 
 a game that is good, but could have been better.
  
  .: My reviews are only as good as everyone else's. Take every single one of them with a grain of 
 salt:. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
