-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Rune Factory 2: A Fantasy Harvest Moon
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/ds/rpg/runefactoryzokuhen/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 Pleasant, calming gameplay with addictive farming.
 Good crafting system.
 Interesting social simulation aspect.
 Charming artistic design.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 In-game clock and calendar can really test your patience.
 Button-mashing combat system.
 Padded with dull fetch quests.
 Minor slowdown.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Dec 18, 2008
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 6.5
Critic Score: 8.1, 8 Review (s)
User Score: 8.7, 148 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Natsume
Developer: Neverland
Genre: Role-Playing
Date: Nov 18, 2008
ESRB: Everyone

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Enjoy a fun fantasy adventure and addictive farm management without having to wake up at dawn.

  Rune Factory 2: A Fantasy Harvest Moon is a role-playing game much like its predecessor, sharing 
 a simplistic combat system that is traditionally lacking in Harvest Moon games as well as a unique 
 social emphasis that operates as a dating simulator. Micromanagement is still the primary focus, 
 with farming tasks and monster organization at the forefront, though exploration and a robust crafting 
 system are also prominent. The game tests your patience, given that you're forced to work boring 
 fetch quests around the in-game clock, not to mention the fact that the crafting system has to 
 be unlocked. But those who don't mind waiting should find Rune Factory 2 a calming and pleasant 
 adventure.  

  You're initially cast as Kyle, a traveler with amnesia who stumbles upon the small town of Alvarna 
 several years after the events in the original. A young girl named Mana loans you a farm to keep 
 you busy until you recover your memories. The game's most interesting aspect is that its plot spans 
 two generations. Your control will eventually shift to Kyle's only child, at which point you'll 
 progress the real story as additional gameplay features become available. Though the storyline 
 is quite basic, it's more than sufficient to carry the sedate gameplay that follows.  

           Master nature to put cash in your pocket and food on the table.      

  The bulk of 
 your time is spent managing the farm, which is surprisingly addictive and satisfying. You'll pull 
 multicolored weeds, till the land, plant a variety of seeds depending on the season, water plants 
 daily, and eventually harvest produce to sell at the local general store. Comfortable stylus controls 
 and a convenient quick-select feature allow easier tool juggling and faster item access than in 
 the original, though you can still rely on a simple button scheme if you prefer. Working, be it 
 planting strawberries or watering flowers, drains your rune points, which serve as your stamina 
 gauge. When your stamina reaches zero, your health begins to deplete, and when you run out of health 
 points you'll collapse, which means a game over if you're in a dungeon. When you're not working 
 the fields, you'll probably head for the nearest dungeon, where you tame vicious monsters by loving 
 them into submission with gentle pats to the head. Those creatures that you collect can fight alongside 
 you and are useful for working the farm while you're away, but it's disappointing that taming requires 
 no skill; you simply pet monsters until they tire of pounding on you.  

  The game's social simulation element is similar to its predecessor's and affects monsters and people, 
 adding an additional twist to both gameplay and plot. Grooming monsters increases their friendship 
 level, which determines how productive they are in the fields, whereas daily chitchat with the 
 locals raises their friendship and love gauges. You'll need to raise these levels if you wish to 
 marry and progress to the second portion. The best way to do so is to complete jobs posted on the 
 town's bulletin board. Unfortunately, the overwhelming majority of these tasks are effortless, 
 mundane fetch quests restricted to delivering or retrieving items, and you can complete them only 
 one at a time. To worsen matters, you'll have to complete quests around the in-game clock, which 
 determines where people will be at certain times as well as when shops open and close. This means 
 that you may find yourself wasting valuable time waiting on your fellow townspeople to show up 
 or a store to open in order to finish a job, which could prove quite dull. You'll encounter the 
 same annoyance as you spend days in bed to speed up the calendar so you can reach the next holiday, 
 which finally advances the story by enabling you to court your desired spouse.  

  The elements that differentiate the Rune Factory games from the traditional Harvest Moon series -- heavier 
 exploration and combat -- are relatively boring inclusions. There are only a handful of dungeons 
 to explore, and the areas you can progress through are sharply limited until you reach the second 
 portion, when dungeons finally expand and enemy variety increases beyond the simple addition of 
 nocturnal monsters. Your chance of getting lost is quite rare due to the top screen's detailed 
 map and the general lack of dungeon puzzles to master, which makes dungeon advancement straightforward 
 but also unchallenging. The shallow combat system consists of mashing the attack button between 
 dodging foes, though you can also blast opponents with basic spells or perform rune abilities, 
 which are special attacks tied to specific weapon types. Most combat is mind-numbing and pointless, 
 but fights are easily avoided unless you encounter minor slowdown, which is rare.  

  The crafting system, which is unlocked once you've reached the second generation, is robust enough 
 to please item collectors and those looking for something to do while they wait on the in-game 
 clock. You're able to cook a great variety of dishes, forge weapons, and craft helpful accessories 
 by acquiring needed items through mining, logging, fishing, and farming. Before you start, you'll 
 have to overcome a few hurdles, namely building the work areas and purchasing equipment, but combining 
 items is a pain-free, fun process that should offset the relatively high cost of goods.  

           Slay giant lizards and other vicious beasts in a handful of dungeons.      

  Alvarna 
 consists of detailed prerendered environments dotted with colorful, cheery trees and town decor 
 that changes according to the season. The 3D character models are cute if crude, using artistic 
 character portraits for anime-style dialogue boxes during plot progression. Both sections of the 
 game feature a full anime opening complete with theme song, and though they aren't of the highest 
 quality, most should enjoy their aesthetic approach. Some exaggerated voice acting is included 
 for special segments, but it occurs rarely enough that it's hardly a nuisance.  

  Replayability is high because you can spend countless hours farming, fishing, cooking, or forging 
 the ultimate weaponry and accessories. Exploration and combat, if they suit your needs, will extend 
 that amount significantly. Item collectors and monster lovers should enjoy trading via multicard 
 multiplayer or the Nintendo Wi-Fi Connection, and those looking for a little challenge can play 
 the sugoroku board game once its requirements have been met.  

  Though Rune Factory 2's shallow combat system and tedious fetch quests arguably make the game a 
 little bland, most should be satisfied by its light, cozy adventuring and classic Harvest Moon 
 gameplay.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (13 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: Shinno441
Rating: 7
Date: Mar 10, 2009 4:12 pm PT
Review:  Rune Factory 2 is the second game in the Rune Factory series, which is a spin off of the well known 
 Harvest Moon games. The game makes strides in trying to improve the complaints and even bugs that 
 were noticed in the previous game, but the awkward pacing and monotonous abundance of useless activities 
 brings the satisfaction level down quite a bit.
  
  The game's story is will be very similar to anyone who made it past the opening movie of the first 
 game. The protagonist has amnesia and walks into a small farming town and meets a girl who decides 
 to up and give him a farm. With this, the game moves away from plot development for a good 5-10 
 hours, depending on how much time the player dedicates to farming, raising animals, and courting 
 girls. The story doesn't advance until the game's second generation where the player has the chance 
 to play as the child of the protagonist.
  
  This approach may work in the cases of letting the player decide who to marry and what to do during 
 the first generation, but the lack of story related goals make the first half of the game feel 
 lacking in a sense, as many of the game's weapons, tools, and even activities aren't unlocked until 
 the second generation.
  
  There are a variety of activities to do during game play though. The player can farm, cook, befriend 
 animals, make friends with the citizens, forge items, get married, dungeon crawl, make medicines, 
 and there's even a job board to do quests for the townspeople. Unfortunately, a majority of these 
 normally enticing activities fall under the category of collecting items from a list and simply 
 putting them together on a menu to create a new item. Cooking, which is mainly used to make gifts 
 for the townspeople, isn't even necessary to game play as increasing friendship levels is easy 
 enough on its own.
  
  Combat suffers from button mashing syndrome, making normal and boss fights a breeze, and the lack 
 of variety in monsters and number of dungeons is disappointing. There are four dungeons, one for 
 every season, that are open at all times during the year and are all easily finished within 20 
 minutes. This pales in comparison to the first Rune Factory game, where there were numerous dungeons, 
 all of which tasked the player with defeating every monster in the vicinity without leaving, and 
 in some cases solving puzzles. Rune Factory 2 takes out the monster slaying part, which takes away 
 not only from the difficulty, but from the game length.
  
  Many players will also be forced to wait for certain quests or events to open up at night or later 
 in the day, or even festivals later in the month to raise the townspeople's friendship levels.
 
  
  The game is relaxing though, and surprisingly addicting as players will find themselves waiting 
 that extra twenty minutes to do a quest and court one of the game's girls. The dialogue between 
 characters is direct and in some cases interesting to read, which makes completing every first 
 and second generation quest a rewarding goal.
  
  The in game graphics consist of beautiful backdrops with jagged and chunky character models littering 
 the scene. When dialogue occurs however, the player is greeted by soothing and well drawn anime 
 character graphics for each character. One quirk in this approach is that the time it took for 
 each character to be drawn resulted is a lack of adult sprites and pictures for each character 
 in the second generation, which is just a little drawback.
  
  The game suffers from frequent lag whenever more than three characters are walking on screen, which 
 is a minor annoyance, but nothing game breaking as it usually only happens in the game's town.
 
  
  The sound effects and in some cases the music is recycled from the previous game. The music is 
 soothing, peaceful, and relaxing, and uses a variety of different sounds to indicate the different 
 moods of each dungeon, town, or other setting that the player may wander into.
  
  There are vocals for each of the characters, granted they're only used for a few words overall 
 and the voice actors don't match their characters at all.
  
  All in all, Rune Factory 2 is a solid game. It suffers from a few ticks here and there, and can 
 get repetitive over time, but it still offers an enjoyable and fun experience. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hemadre
Rating: 7.5
Date: Mar 1, 2009 2:15 pm PT
Review:  If anyone recalls back when I reviewed the first Rune Factory, I gave it hailing praise. I think 
 the reason for that may have been due to two things. The first is that I had not played any other 
 action-adventure-esque games on the DS, and the other would be... well, Phantom Hourglass left a 
 bad taste in my mouth. Well, now that I've played much more hands-on games on the DS, such as The 
 World Ends With You, and games with better graphics, such as... The... World Ends With You... and 
 Disgaea DS! See, I like other games on the console! Where was I... oh yes; my point is that my eyes 
 have been opened a bit more, so I can see where Rune Factory 2 stands among its predecessors. And 
 yet, while it has many flaws, the game still shines through most of them.
  
  Story: Have you played any Harvest Moon game whatsoever? You have? All right, skip to the next 
 paragraph. Now that it's just you and me, let's continue. Basically, you're plopped in the middle 
 of a village, stricken with amnesia to the point that you don't know who you are, where you're 
 from, or why you're there. So, what logical choice is there except to put you on a farm and get 
 you to work? Yes, that is... admittedly silly, but it doesn't stop there. Like in the first Rune 
 Factory, there's some shady dealings behind the light and fluffy "Farm and Friends" atmosphere; 
 this time, though, instead of the government using monsters to destroy the world, there's just 
 one especially cranky monster that's wreaking a lot of havoc. I guess you can't really expect a 
 deep story from a Harvest Moon game; most of the storytelling comes through dialogue with other 
 characters. A lot of the game is spent talking to people and helping them out, winning them over 
 so they'll give you money and gifts in return. However, it's a bit obvious that the translation 
 was slacking off; the text is riddled with inaccuracies and silly wording (one prime example: your 
 mother in the second generation will oftentimes say "______, there's nothing I treasure more than 
 your smile?") , so some of it is difficult to take seriously.
  
  Gameplay: Have you played any Harvest Moon game whatsoever? You have? Well... have you played Rune 
 Factory? If you have, then go ahead and skip to the next paragraph; everyone else, you'll want 
 to hear this. Basically, most Harvest Moon games have you just going around growing crops, then 
 turning them in for money to buy more crops. Or animals. Basically, the point is to see how great 
 your farm can grow with the money and tools given before you. The twist, if you will, of Rune Factory 
 is that it takes all these, and adds on many RPG elements, such as swords, spells, and leveling 
 up. The combat system is... admittedly, not so great. If you're wielding anything heavier than a 
 one-handed sword, then half the time a monster will attack you before you can even swing your blade, 
 causing you to skid back and try to attack again. As far as the farming itself goes, it's pretty 
 simple. Thankfully, your farm is laid out into a grid, and each time you use a hoe, or your watering 
 bucket, or other farming tools, you can see how far it'll take effect, so you don't accidentally 
 lop off your stalks of corn. A bit of a tripe I have is that the shopping system is a bit obnoxious 
 and takes some getting used to. Then again, I could say that for the whole game; it has a pretty 
 steep learning curve, but once you get into it, it provides a long, enjoyable experience. There 
 are a few major differences between this and the original Rune Factory, though. For instance, instead 
 of being given around eight dungeons to go through, you're only given four, and you have access 
 to them right off the bat. The twist, though, is that you come back to them later in the game, 
 and they're filled with much more powerful monsters. But I'll discuss the second generation aspect 
 in a bit.
  
  Graphics: Yeah, after playing games like TWEWY, Pokemon, and Hunters, I realize that the graphics... really 
 aren't that great. They're pretty blocky, they look horrendous when zoomed in, and the biggest 
 problem of all is, undoubtedly, the lag. Should more than three people occupy the screen, the game 
 instantly makes a dive. This doesn't exactly help when you're in the middle of a town square, or 
 in the school, or surrounded by monsters. If I can praise one thing about the game, though, is 
 its anime-esque design. The characters are all delightfully well drawn (except for the fact that 
 they all have way too many blush marks all over their body for some reason) , and the characters' 
 artistic designs prove to be much more personal than their graphical ones.
  
  Audio: Normally, I wouldn't expect much from a Harvest Moon game: mostly just cheery beats throughout. 
 However, I was spoiled by the amazing soundtrack in the original Rune Factory, so I guess I expected 
 too much. Most of the stuff in this game is so-so, run of the mill music. The only song I really 
 liked was the one that plays up in the snowy mountains, which is mysterious, eerie, and... well, 
 cool. And no, I did not think that Rune Factory's soundtrack was great because I hadn't played 
 other games; there are some areas in the game where you can hear music from the original, and it 
 serves as a welcome blast to the past. Something else I feel I should note on is the voice acting. 
 Like the first Rune Factory, there are occasional lines spoken by characters, such as "Hello" and 
 "Good morning" and "Thank you". Nothing too special. However, in the beginning of the game, characters 
 will speak full pages of dialogue when you first meet them. This acts as a welcome way to become 
 accustomed to the character's voices... and in some case, how inappropriate they are. I think the 
 creepiest voice was the 40 year old, booming, deep man voice in the 15 year old boy. And that gets 
 especially creepy when he says "TIME TO START CLASS".
  
  Length/Replay Value: Holy shxt is this game long. I mean, even if this were a console game, it'd 
 still be pretty long. The game doesn't have a clock to time your progress, but damn, this bastard 
 is lengthy. Whether this is a good thing or a bad thing... well, that's debatable. You go through 
 the first half of the game as a boy named Kyle (or whatever you feel like renaming yourself) . You 
 grow crops, fight monsters, become friends with the townsfolk, and fall in love. This simulation 
 aspect is nice, as it's fun to watch your actions slowly win over the heart of your woman (s) . Yes, 
 I said plural. As in, the game encourages you to get all of the girls to fall in love with you, 
 then shoot them all down. In fact, in my game, I had the father of one of the candidates give me 
 an engagement ring, as he expected me to marry his daughter. I then went off and married another 
 girl; at the wedding, he just said "CONGRATULATIONS!". No mention of beating the shxt out of me 
 for taking his ring and running with it. Quite amusing. But wait, here I am running off on a tangent. 
 Anyways, this should suffice to a full game. However, after you and your wife live with each other 
 for a while, she "miraculously" becomes pregnant, gives birth to a child, and you build a school 
 for her to learn in. And at this point... the game automatically clicks into the second "half". 
 Gone are all of your relationships that you've built up, and gone is the main character; you now 
 play as the son/daughter (you get to choose during pregnancy; I sure wish it were that simple) , 
 and go off in search of your deadbeat dad. This would be interesting, if it weren't for the fact 
 that you basically lose everything you gained in the first half that you had toiled so hard for, 
 and once you expect the game is over, it suddenly throws this at you. Honestly... it gets a bit 
 tiring. I liked playing goo-goo eyes with my wife; I don't want to think romantic thoughts as my 
 own daughter. That's just... sick. To be honest, after a while, it gets a bit tedious; the game 
 just goes on and on and on. Sure, there are areas where you feel like you have way too much to 
 do, and those are fun. However, there are other areas where you feel that you have NOTHING to do, 
 and you keep on going to sleep at 7:00 AM just to pass on to the next day. The first generation 
 is fun, but the second... not so much.
  
  Bosses: There aren't as many bosses as there are in Rune Factory, but boy are they bigger and scarier. 
 Most of them just involve discovering the proper strategy and/or right time to strike, wait, attack, 
 back off, repeat. Some are tedious, some are exciting, some are troublesome, some are easy. Not 
 really much to say about them.
  
  Multiplayer: Like in the original, there are some multiplayer aspects to the game, such as a pond 
 and a mirror that allow you to connect with other players. Just what they do, I haven't a clue; 
 I haven't bothered to try them out.
  
  Extras: Not much to say here, except that there is a LOT of stuff to do; mining, forging, cooking, 
 pharmacy... ing... yeah, there's plenty of stuff to keep you busy. Too bad half of it can't even 
 be touched upon until the second generation.
  
  Final Statement: While not one of the DS's strongest games, and by no means better than the original 
 Rune Factory, Rune Factory 2 is still a fun, enjoyable game. If you've never played Harvest Moon 
 before, then I'd say try out A Wonderful Life or the original Rune Factory before playing this. 
 If you have played Rune Factory, then go ahead and try this out; you've got nothing to lose. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bluej33
Rating: 7
Date: Jan 31, 2009 1:40 pm PT
Review:  Harvest Moon may have started out a lot of fun, and there have been some real gems throughout the 
 series, but generally as time has passed the series has grown worse and worse. It's one thing to 
 stick with a solid gameplay mechanic that everybody loves, but it's quite another to keep rehashing 
 the exact same game experience over and over again with subpar visuals and troublesome controls. 
 The Rune Factory spin-off has, in some ways, helped to rectify the problems of the series. 
  
  But while Rune Factory 2: A Fantasy Harvest Moon is a solid game relative to other recent iterations 
 in the Harvest Moon series, it's plagued by overcompensation. Natsume is having trouble finding 
 that "just right" position for a variety of their game mechanics. Previously, people have complained 
 that Harvest Moon games are too slow-paced and too difficult to get into. Now, the opposite is 
 true. 
  
  Since its beginning, nobody has ever denied that the farming sim has been, by nature, a repetitive 
 game. The fun, then, comes from using the results of your daily grind to create progress in your 
 farm and in your village. Consistently watering and occasionally harvesting crops is fun when you 
 know that the next big harvest is going to pay for an upgraded barn or a new patch of land. 
  
  When this system is skewed is when the entire series falls off a cliff. When items such as 
 seeds and tools are so expensive that you can barely afford them, or upgrades cost ridiculous amounts 
 of money compared to the income from your farm, then the game inevitably gets off to a slow start 
 and generally discourages players from enjoying it. 
  
  While it's taken them several new installments of the series, Natsume seems to have finally recognized 
 this problem and taken steps to correct it. It's like they're rowing their Harvest Moon canoe down 
 a river and suddenly see the big, freaking Waterfall of Slow Starts in the imminent distance. They 
 guide the canoe away, thankfully, but they oversteer, and as a result end up running their boat 
 over a bunch of sharp rocks. Sure, they avoided the waterfall, but the canoe is still screwed up. 
 
  
  The rocks that the canoe ran upon in this case is a complete lack of direction. Many things in 
 Rune Factory 2 are too easily obtained. For example, you can easily max out all the available farm 
 land in just a year, and after that there's really nowhere else to go. The idea of slowly building 
 up a "farming empire" in Harvest Moon games has always been appealing, but Rune Factory 2 essentially 
 throws that out the window. Ultimately, I feel this is a bad direction for the series to go. Admittedly, 
 previous games' openings have been slow. But I'll take that to a game with no ultimate purpose 
 or goal. 
  
  That said, Rune Factory really is an issue of extremes. On the one hand, you've got preliminary 
 goals, like making a crapload of money, that are accomplished all too easily. And on the other, 
 you've got some other goals that span multiple generations. For example, building a school is necessary 
 to progress on to the second half of the game, but completing this task is something that takes 
 anywhere from ten to twenty hours, depending on how aggressively you approach finding a wife. 
 
  
  As a result, the first generation that you play as in Rune Factory 2 is characterized by a huge, 
 gaping void of activity and instead sports rampant repetition for no real reason. You wake up at 
 six, water your plants, and are back in bead by 11 in the morning. Frankly, I'm surprised my character 
 hasn't become a fat-ass after months and months of sleeping 19 or 20 hours every single day, interrupted 
 only occasionally by short bursts of farming activity. 
  
  The bulletin board system, which throws handfuls of fetch quests at you, breaks up the monotony 
 for a little while, only by providing a different kind of boredom. But after a little while the 
 developers must have gotten tired of writing quests, because all of a sudden the quests just stop. 
 The fact that you so quickly run out errands to run does nothing to help the fact that there's 
 just not much going on in this game. Even the much-touted combat, an addition specifically for 
 the Rune Factory games and a gameplay mechanic around which many of the quests revolve, is boring 
 and lackluster. Mashing buttons isn't fun in other dungeon crawlers, and it's not fun in Rune Factory 
 2. 
  
  As easy it is to lay down the smack on Rune Factory 2, I actually do like the game. It can get 
 dull and repetitive for stretches of time, but once you get to the second generation  IF you get 
 to the second generation before you get too bored with the game  things pick up. As Harvest Moon 
 games go, it's not bad. That said, it's still not great, which leads me to believe it might be 
 time to put the series to bed. Harvest Moon has provided us with a lot of good times, but farming 
 just isn't as fun as it once was. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Detroit222
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jan 15, 2009 7:11 am PT
Review:  For a "Mooner" - Harvest Moon lover - there was some disappointment in the FIRST Rune Factory - 
 the relationships were BLEAH, people were cardboard cutouts even though the storyline was decent. 
 RF2 has changed all that. Relationships have become important. Interacting with people in town 
 is important to the story. Romance (as in most HMs) eventually blossoms. You farm, you mine, you 
 fall in love, you marry, you have a kid. Typical HMs stuff? Not exactly.
  
  Suddenly you get your memory back (yes, THAT old chestnut) AND you leave, disappear, vamoose. End 
 of story? No. You become your own child with a mystery - where did dear old dad go? why does the 
 town keep having earthquakes? Why are so many monsters appearing all of a sudden? You must take 
 classes to improve your skills, learn how to forge to make better weapons, and even take a few 
 cooking classes (packing a lunch is important for adventurers doncha' know!) Plus there's all that 
 magic to learn.
  
  The first half is a little boring (mostly fetching stuff) but the interactions are fun. So is choosing 
 your favorite girl and eventually marrying her (or stealing her from your rival at the alter) . 
 The second half definitely picks up though. I've only started the second half and already I've 
 got to say WHEW! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: antipunt1
Rating: 8
Date: Jan 12, 2009 3:57 pm PT
Review:  I'll start with this: a 6.5?! Come on Gamespot, that's just wrong! In cases like this, I'd easily 
 side with IGN's rating of 8.4.
  
  Let's get down to the game. RF2 is fun because of how it grows on you. Start out with your own 
 farm, and live in a nice dainty town with many people/personalities running around. I'd say downright, 
 RF2 is the one of the most fun games I've played on the DS.
  
  RF2 stands tall and mighty, in that it's the best game in its entire series (Harvest moon games 
 included) . Not only do you have the farming elements, but in addition, you have the RPG elements, 
 a second generation, and a great overall design improvement from its predecessors. In addition, 
 you can raise animals in your farm. You can groom, harvest, use a water pot, attack monsters, tame 
 them, etc. etc. etc. And this is the heart of RF2 and why it shines: it just feels so complete 
 and polished.
  
  I liked the art design as well. The characters are all distinct and well made. The town is creative 
 and comfy. And oh right, I forgot. you can also fish, use your hoe, do quests for townies, etc. 
 etc.
  
  I think you see my point: the general idea is, what IF there was a Sims-game with anime townsfolk. 
 Basically, RF2 was somewhat of an answer to that call. I think those who dismiss RF2 too quickly 
 just haven't given it a chance. RF2 is a game that takes time to grow on you; shortly after, it 
 becomes crack cocaine
  
  Now, though it is true RF2 is an impressive game with many accomplishments, IMO it's important 
 to mention that it also leaves SO MUCH more to be desired. A fantasy comes to mind: WHAT IF, RF2 
 was done on a different platform/console. What if, RF2 had better graphics, a more immersive presentation, 
 and a more fleshed out battle system? Maybe even add a little storyline?
  
  I realize that I may be a little far-fetched with my expectations, but let me put this in perspective: 
 in the battle to achieve 'greatest anime social simulation game', we have Persona 3 and 4 as participants 
 (which are nothing short of amazing) . As it stands on the DS, RF2 is impressive enough to admire 
 and respect, but it's not epic enough for me to drool all over it and actually 'get into it'.
 
  
  But to be fair, it's not really the game's fault entirely; it's because it's running on the DS. 
 It's impossible to ignore the fact that RF2 is running on old-school graphics, and a rather simple 
 system (especially in comparison to Persona's calendar system) . In addition, it was a REAL shame 
 the game did not include the japanese-audio option. You would think that Natsume would have learned 
 by now that English audio is like chalkboard/nails on the ears.
  
  It may feel unfair to bring Persona games onto the table, but my philosophy is, a game is a game, 
 so it's fair play. But this is where my vision comes in: what if they could polish RF's look, shake 
 things up a little bit, and make it like a sort of anime-sims. And still, despite all my critiquing, 
 I think I've made it quite clear how much I respect it as a game. It gave its all on the DS platform, 
 and I recognize for many players, this may be enough! The game is still very much fun to play! 
 But still, it eats at me: what if RF2 was more fleshed out with improved graphics/depth? Realistically, 
 I guess for now I just have to be satisfied that it stands as 'one of the best DS games I've ever 
 come across'. *Recommended* 
::::::

::::::
UserName: metroid108
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 1, 2009 9:41 am PT
Review:  This game is so fun it is very hard to put down. I was going on a long trip and i saw this game 
 on google video and thought it was an awesome looking game. I wanted the first one before the second 
 but i could not find it and it was too late to buy it on ebay. So i bought the second one and it 
 is fantastic. It is by far the best game of all time period. The best part is probably that you have 
 side quests that you can do to spice up your scedule if you get bored of doing the same thing every 
 day, which wont happen. Realy realy fun  
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dentedskillet
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 30, 2008 11:43 am PT
Review:  Ok, I thought it time I go ahead and review the second one since I have played it a bit now, and 
 Rune Factory 1 is the only other game I reviewed up to this point... On with it...
  
  I have to say, I am a Harvest Moon fan, but I was starting to get bored with the series. Sure they 
 added some new basic features, towns, etc but it was starting to feel like I was always playing 
 the same game over and over. That changed with Rune Factory and has improved even more now with 
 its sequel, Rune Factory 2. I said love this game for the first one, and this one makes the first 
 look silly.
  
  Following the format of my other review, I will start again with the opening sequence. It was really 
 great. I think they do an awesome job of really conveying the atmosphere of the game, and really 
 set you up for the story of it. I really wish they would get the people involved in making this 
 for both games to actually make an anime series out of it. Especially the sequence of the first 
 one that I liked a tiny bit more. The music is pretty good too.
  
  Now in regards to game play, I really feel that it has been improved in many ways over the original. 
 Natume did a great job of simplifying the controls and shortcuts to make it easier to play. That 
 was a good thing. In regards to the rest of the game play, I really liked how it pretty much stuck 
 to the formula of fighting monsters in the caves, farming (which is also fun) , raising the monsters 
 you capture to help you, and the courting of a town girl. They added another feature that is a 
 big part of the game, and that is the bulletin board side quest that the townsfolk ask (really 
 make) you do. For the most part they are fun, but as the Gamespot review suggest, it can sometimes 
 lock you down when times/holidays, etc get in the way. I also found it really helpful in getting 
 more out of the townspeople and making you more attached to them. I did find it fun, and it added 
 another great dimension to an already great game. I also want to step back for a moment to mention 
 the fighting. I found the fighting in the first game to be really tough and frustrating in the 
 first game. I really think they did a better job in this game of making the transition of doing 
 it easier in the beginning. If you found the fighting too hard in the first one, I do think you 
 will like this one much more.
  
  ******SPOILER ALERT******
  I do not want to spoil it for anyone, so if you don't want to know anything about the story, skip 
 this paragraph. I thought it should be mentioned that the game is really broken up into two stories. 
 The original protagonist you start the game with, and after a while, you take over as its offspring. 
 Most people will really like this and think it is cool, and it does add a second chapter to the 
 game to keep it from getting old in the story. Unfortunately, while I will say I do not dislike 
 it, I should also say I get very vested into the characters I play in a game, and I hated having 
 to give him up and use someone else, even if it was his offspring.
  
  
  Spoiler over. I think I have covered it all at this point. I think it was a awesome game. I give 
 it a 9.5 because I gave the original a 9, and it is definitely better than the first. I loved it 
 so much, I wrote Natsume and asked them to make a Xbox360/PS3 version to which they responded that 
 there is nothing to announce for it or Harvest Moon at the time.. : ( I will keep my hopes up though. 
 In the meantime, go get this game!!!
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: zcds
Rating: 8.5
Date: Dec 20, 2008 10:50 am PT
Review:  Last year Rune Factory came to America and was well received by fans. A year later we have 2 now 
 and it offers more of the same, not that it's bad. If you played one than you'll have no trouble 
 picking this one up and playing it, if you have not then you'll pick it up thanks to the user friendly 
 interface. The one big change I noticed is now characters are now smaller, meaning combat is now 
 a little harder theres just more directions to go off instead of hitting the monster you were aiming 
 for. It's annoying at first but easy to come to grips with. 2's big hook is that it expands over 
 two generations and it sort of pays off. The first generation seems like an afterthought. The only 
 point is to get married and get enough wood for the school. You can't really explore the caves 
 at all and the pacing can be a bit to slow. Once the kid takes control thats when things get more 
 interesting and feels like RF 1. The only big complaint I have is the pacing. In the caves you'll 
 be asked to get an idome. A lot of them you can't get in one day so you'll have to spend a few 
 days to get it. Also leveling up is a big part of the game and can be a real pain. That being said 
 RF 2 is an enjoyable rpg with just a few slow spots. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cgjr10000
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 8, 2008 7:59 am PT
Review:  this game is totally awsome, I would recommend this game especialy to ages 13 and up no offence 
 to you younger people. annyway i rate this game a 10 beacause of the adventure and good story line 
 it has a few gliches such as rosalind might mistake you for aaron the second generation boy. well 
 i love it so go out and buy it!!  seriously its awsome 
 exept jake is EVIL because he hates humans so .......... ok where where we oh yeah BUY IT NOW !! 
 !! !! !! !! !! !! !! !! !! !! !! !! !! !! !!!! !!!!!!! !!!!!!!!! !!!!!!!!!!1 !!!!!!!!!!!!! !!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!! 
 !!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!   
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: AutoReset
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 30, 2008 9:22 am PT
Review:  (MILD SPOILER)
  
  Well, the sequel to the popular DS hame Rune Factory Frontier: A Fantasy Harvest Moon has hit American 
 shores, and I must say, this game is impressive. It's improved, it's addictive, IT'S LONG, which 
 isn't bad. The game is divided into two halves. The first half you play a young man with amnesia 
 (where have I heard that before?) who's wandered into a village and settles in a worn down farm, 
 a suggestion by a young girl, then a demand by her overprotective shopkeeper father. This half 
 is mainly about wooing a possible bride and then having a child. Your child can be male or female. 
 Then once the child is born, you can build a school. When the school is built, the game skips about 
 seven years. Your child is older, and your character remembers what he came to do, so he sets off. 
 Now you can play as your child, and then you explore the depths of dungeons and face bosses like 
 the first one, in hopes about finding clues to where your father is. Your child can also have a 
 boyfriend or girlfriend, for some of the possble marriage targets you did not pick in the first 
 half will marry another man in the village and have a child that is possible to start a relationship 
 with in the second half (The relationship isn't like marriage) . You still can befriend monsters 
 and explore caves, but cave exploration isn't really an important game aspect until the second 
 half. Forging, cooking, and medicine making are features unavailable until generation 2. Now for 
 a quick sum up:
  
  GAMEPLAY: Improved since the first, controls are better, story ( apart from an amnesiac protagonist) 
 is new and imaginative. Monster battles are still just as fun and farming crops is still enjoyable. 
 I give that a 9.5
  
  SOUND: This was a let down. While the character dialouge has been expanded and improved, and the 
 background music was appropriate, character voice overs were awful.
  Some were passible, but most made me keep the volume off. Some voices seemed like they were ment 
 for a different character since they sounded so weird. One character, Jake, a half-elf, sounds 
 like a snobby ten year old, when he is actually a young adult. Also, the day he marries one of 
 your avalible marriage targets (snooze you loose) and he saysI do", it sounds so weird, i myself, 
 couldn't help but laugh. I laughed both out of how dorky he sounds and how pathetic his voice over 
 was. I say sound gets a 4.0
  
  DIFFICULTY/GAME LENGTH: Difficulty is in the middle, not too easy, but not an impossible to beat 
 game. With two generations the game length is a little long, but the game still can keep you entertained. 
 That gets a 8.5
  
  Overall- Now i don't average my scores together, but is say the game gets a 9.0. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mazongo
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 25, 2008 7:38 pm PT
Review:  There are games in which you make a farmer of yourself and there are others in which you kick some 
 nice monster butt. Now if you want a mixture of the two above then Rune Factory 2 is just what 
 you need cuz RF2 is a farming sim with some rpg elements, but how does that work out? Continue 
 reading to find out.
  
  Gameplay 9.0
  Rune Factory 2 starts when you found yourself being awake by a nice looking girl in a little town, 
 though when you regain your senses you dont remember anything cuz you have like amnesia. So after 
 this girl gives you a farm and some farming instruments (not cheap btw) you start your adventure. 
 
  
  First of theres the farming part of the game, which lets you plant many crops in your farm or in 
 any of the games dungeons. Theres an incredible amount of crops and flowers to plant though the 
 better ones are kind of expensive but they sell better too =) . But dont worry, after you progress 
 in the game you will make lots of money. Then theres the rpg part, in which you buy a weapon of 
 your choice and then go kill some monsters, or make them your friends so that you can use them 
 in battle or just to milk a weird monster that looks like a cow. There are save points in the dungeons 
 which is a nice addition though there are some parts of them in which you cant get in right from 
 the start. And lastly but not least is the part in which you do whatever you want and trust me 
 theres a lot to do. There are many quests that the townsfolk give you, which can give you some 
 nice rewards that are very important and its the biggest mayor addition, you can also go fishing 
 in many different spots, mine some minerals, get a nice looking wife, festivals, chop some wood and 
 some others that you will find out by yourself. 
  
  Controls are great for everyone, you can move with the stylus or choose the traditional button 
 way but you will find out the the traditional way feels better. There are many other little details 
 like at first you get a fridge and a shelf, your tools being already modified to charge and use 
 them in all nine squares of your field, you have a lot more stamina to do your chores, the many 
 interaction with your future wife and others that i would like to explain but it would take me 
 a lifetime to get over with XD.
  
  Graphics 8.0
  A nice intro animated cinematic followed by decent looking sprites and some beautiful artwork, 
 though chicks are not as good looking as in the first one, its not that they look bad but hell 
 in the first RF i had a hard time trying to find which to get married cuz all of them where quite 
 beautiful lol.
  
  Sound 8.0
  Some VO from every character like a good morning or evening and some sequences plus some solid 
 music for every part of the game. Nothing over the top but it gets the job done pretty well.
  
  Replay Value 9.5
  This game is packed. Farming, leveling  
 married, and many more. This game will consume a lot of your time.
  
  Final 9.0
  If you are new to the series i fully recommend it cuz it will mantain you entertain for quite a 
 while with tons of things to do. If you are only a harvest moon fan and havent tried RF1 then by 
 all means try it out cuz its farming part of the game is just as HM but adding a lot more content 
 in it which is a better bargain by far. And if you are a RF fan that needs a new RF game then you 
 will be satisfied cuz even though it does not add a lot of content it still feels as fresh as the 
 first one. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Gatcho
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 11, 2008 6:06 pm PT
Review:  early impressions...
  
  Given that I wasn't able to play the very first Rune Factory, it will be an impossibility for me 
 to compare this game and highlight its improvement/s from its predecessor. I however was able to 
 play the very first Harvest Moon for the DS. And wasn't all that "happy" with the 3d version: Island 
 of Happiness. My expectations for this game wasn't all that high since most (if not every single) 
 Harvest Moon update had very little to brag about in terms of improvement. I however was surprised 
 as to how good this title is when compared to Harvest Moon.
  
  Anyone who has tried playing Harvest Moon before should feel right at home with this one. You are 
 given a story in the first part of the game, and you'll end up having your own farm to tend to. 
 You plant seeds, grow crops and sell them, take care of your pets and farm animals, and earn money. 
 If you have spare time you can run around town, and talk to your neighbors and even court a special 
 someone by giving him/her gifts etc. Other than the once in a while hunting for item for upgrades 
 in a cave and attending of holiday celebrations thingy, that pretty much covered the basic gameplay 
 of Harvest Moon. It's pretty addicting and eats up a lot of your time. As perfect and easy-going 
 that may sound, it was also filled with frustrating experiences like not being able to do a lot 
 in your farm per day since your character has the stamina of a 4 year old kid. You also cannot 
 water multiple plants unless you upgrade your watering tool etc. There are a bunch of other things 
 in that game that fits the same description, and after some time you'll feel like the developers 
 only did those so that the game will last longer.
  
  In Rune Factory 2 however, those things were fixed. Your stamina has vastly increased because this 
 game is not only focused on farming, but with monster battles as well (I'll get with that one in 
 a bit) . So now, you can rake, plant seeds, water, harvest, and tidy up your farm and still have 
 the stamina to do something else. With this release, your farm serves as the source of your money 
 and food. But, you'll probably find yourself spending more time outside your farm solving quests 
 which enables you to get handsomely rewarded. And it's pretty much a requirement for you to solve 
 quests because some of the tools that you need for basic farming can only be acquired by solving 
 them.
  
  Now this is not going to be called the "fantasy" harvest moon version for nothing. There's also 
 an element of monster killing-RPG added into the mix (or whatever you want to call it) . You can 
 purchase weapons and set-off to monster infested lands. You gain experience by killing monsters, 
 that at the same time can be turned into pets. You can tame monsters and keep them in your barn 
 and use them for different purposes like fighting, harvesting, and watering ... which somehow reminded 
 me of my Pokemon gaming days. And buildings here doesn't start small like in Harvest Moon, my barn 
 was built in a single day and it was 4 levels high complete with an elevator. Gratification in 
 this game is quicker when compared to Harvest Moon titles, but not in a bad way. You'll simply 
 get rewarded here much quicker for spending some time playing the game. Which in my opinion gives 
 the player a more satisfying experience.
  
  The graphics looks great in an artistic kind of way. You have a 3d character in a smooth and detailed 
 2d environment. I just don't know if the falling petals are necessary to keep the "mystical" feeling 
 in the game intact but it's not in any way distracting. Animation looks good as well but I just 
 wish that they added additional animation for the monsters that water and harvest plants. Because 
 when they start to do their "thing", they look more like they're stomping on your crops than taking 
 care of them. The game tends to get choppy in places where there are more than 3 characters on the 
 screen at the same time, which usually happens during holidays when almost everyone in town is 
 out of their houses. I also saw a glitch where Barrett (a male character in the game) walked through 
 walls and chairs as he take his "station" for the day.
  
  Controls might take some time gettings used to. But I find it much easier using the buttons on 
 this game than the touchscreen controls found in Island of Happiness. You can use the touchscreen 
 to move around but your actions are controlled via the DS buttons.
  
  Audio is pretty good. You have the usual mystical soundtrack accompanied by good quality sound 
 effects. You'll get a couple of speech in the game but you'll still spend most of your time reading 
 text than actually hearing them.
  
  There are tons of things that you can do in this game that if I was to mention all of them, it 
 might take me an hour to simply write them all down. There is so much that you can do with this 
 game that it will eat every single second of your spare time. And given how addicting Harvest Moon 
 is eventhough it's only focused on farming, courting, and upgrading ... you can just imagine how 
 much more time you'll spend with this game since it added quests and RPG elements into the mix. 
 Nothing in this game felt like it was rushed, it seems like Natsume wants to prove that they can 
 create a title that can get the same praise as the first releases of Harvest Moon. If only the 
 game didn't have any performance issues, and an option to play a girl at the beginning (for the 
 lady gamers out there) , I would have given this game a slightly higher score of 9.5. It's (in my 
 opinion) that good.
  
  .: My reviews are only as good as everyone else's. Take every single one of them with a grain of 
 salt:. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: shyguy75
Rating: 8
Date: Nov 20, 2008 3:39 pm PT
Review:  seriously harvest moons are all kid friendly games with peace and farming except this one!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!! 
 the harvest moons were some of the most exciting family fun games ever especially harvest moon 
 a wonderful life these games were so great you want to collect them all because a new wonderful 
 life you can do over and over you may find yourself crying when of them die or when your own baby 
 boy gets his own room and grows up yes these games were fun enjoyable kind nice warmly inviting 
 and much more and rune factory just did not follow the rest on there rode to publishing so it was 
 left there alone with nothing but violence do not get me wrong violence is great this game is just 
 not what harvest moon fans wanted they wanted another sad good exciting game they get to love create 
 play and explore the bottom line is they did not expect or want this. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
