-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Rune Factory: A Fantasy Harvest Moon
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/ds/rpg/runefactory/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 Combat integrates into farmlife formula surprisingly well.
 Plenty of unique activities to keep busy with.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 Actual combat feels stilted.
 2D and 3D graphics don't mesh very well.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Aug 24, 2007
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 7.5
Critic Score: 7.9, 21 Review (s)
User Score: 8.4, 896 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Natsume
Developer: Neverland
Genre: Role-Playing
Date: Aug 14, 2007
ESRB: Everyone

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Despite a totally different visual style and the introduction of combat, Rune Factory still delivers 
 a relatively straight-ahead Harvest Moon experience. 

  The name pretty much says it all. Rune Factory: A Fantasy Harvest Moon takes the well-established 
 farmlife formula of Natsume's Harvest Moon games and transplants it into the type of baroque fantasy 
 world found commonly in Japanese RPGs, complete with an amnesiac protagonist and plenty of dungeon-crawling. 
 The introduction of combat to Rune Factory is a significant one, and though it's a big change of 
 pace from the farming, fishing, and family-building that have been at the heart of the Harvest 
 Moon games, it avoids feeling tacked-on. Still, this is all mostly for the sake of established 
 Harvest Moon fans, and the overall pace of the action in Rune Factory doesn't feel much different 
 from its predecessors.  

           It starts out like any other Japanese RPG... until the girl hands you a hoe.      

 
  Your character wanders into the town of Kardia at the start of the game, exhausted, hungry, and 
 without much sense of who you are or where you've come from. You're taken in by Mist, a young female 
 farmer who rather generously provides you with a house to live in and an open field for you to 
 tend to. Past the introduction, Rune Factory isn't in a huge hurry to reveal the secrets of your 
 hazy origins, and the focus quickly turns to making you into a proper farmer. Growing crops is 
 as straightforward as always, requiring you to purchase or otherwise procure seeds, till the soil, 
 plant the seeds, and then water them daily until they reach maturity. Crops can be sold for cash, 
 which can then be used to buy more seeds, better farm equipment, and a variety of other goods and 
 services that can be purchased in town. Different crops will flourish during different times of 
 year, and though some crops will come to fruition more quickly than others, slow-growing crops 
 often command a higher market price. As any diehard Harvest Moon fan can tell you, all this farm 
 labor is more fun in practice than it might sound, but that doesn't negate the fact that Rune Factory 
 takes a while to get going, and even once it finds its rhythm, the pacing is pretty low-key.  

 
  After you've plowed a certain portion of your field, the mayor of Kardia will grant you permission 
 to explore a nearby cave, which happens to be just brimming with monsters. The real-time combat 
 you'll engage in isn't terribly satisfying, but the caves contain a number of important resources. 
 You'll find ore that can be mined and used to forge new farm equipment and weapons, as well as 
 field space that maintains the same climate year-round, allowing you to grow seasonal crops whenever 
 you want. Perhaps most significant are the monsters themselves, which can be befriended and then 
 used to perform simple tasks on the farm or to provide you support in battle. The monsters are 
 ultimately what make the dungeon-crawling worthwhile, because the more you go adventuring, the 
 more monsters you can befriend, and thus the more efficient and profitable your farm becomes.  
 

  Nearly as significant as the introduction of combat is the visual style of Rune Factory, which 
 looks nothing like the Harvest Moon games of the past. The tiled, kid-friendly presentation that 
 has been a hallmark of the series for years now is replaced with an anime-inspired look that is 
 detailed, if a little derivative. All of the background art looks great, although the polygonal 
 models used for the characters that inhabit Rune Factory look pretty chunky, and don't mesh particularly 
 well with the background art.  

           Run out of rune points too early in the day, and that 5 p. m. bedtime starts looking pretty 
 friendly.      

  While time management has been a key discipline in past Harvest Moon games, energy management seems 
 to take priority in Rune Factory. There are two measurements for your character's well-being: his 
 hit points and his rune points. While hit points determine how much damage you can take, rune points 
 are used whenever you perform an action like plowing, watering, fishing, mining, swinging a sword, 
 or just about any other productive activity. Once you deplete all of your rune points, any rune-dependent 
 activities will eat into your hit points. What happens when you run out of hit points depends on 
 where you are. If you're on the surface, you'll pass out and wake up the next morning at the local 
 physician's office. If it happens while you're exploring a cave, the game ends, forcing you to 
 restart from the last time you saved. The severity of this penalty feels out of character, though 
 it ultimately just conditions you to save your progress before you go running into a cave. Hit 
 points and rune points can be restored with a good night's sleep, a hot bath, or by consuming some 
 special items, and rune points can also sprout up alongside your crops. A big part of playing Rune 
 Factory is deciding how you expend your limited daily allotment of rune points, and these decisions 
 can determine the overall flow of the game.  

  As with its predecessors, you could wile away dozens and dozens of hours in Rune Factory. It's 
 a pleasant spin on the tried-and-true Harvest Moon formula, and the combat integrates surprisingly 
 well with the farmwork. For better or for worse, though, this is still very much a Harvest Moon 
 game, which is sure to please fans, but probably won't mean much either way to those who missed 
 the appeal of the previous games.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (65 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: Negemite
Rating: 7
Date: Apr 16, 2009 8:54 pm PT
Review:  *Working Progress, This is the last review for this season!*
  
  *Note: I'm sorry I'm begin lazy with my reviews lately, I've been so busy lately and I will do 
 better the next reviewing season and that might be in Sepetember. I just hope you can forgive me 
 and I will get the finished version of these reviews as soon as possbile.*
  
  Rune Factory is considered to be a spinoff of Harvest Moon by most fans of the series. But in Japan 
 this game is considered to be part of Harvest Moon's Tenth Annversity, but in North America, we 
 don't see that anywhere. Even though this game is still a Harvest Moon game by heart.
  
  TESTING TESTING TESTING
  
  TESTING TESTING
  
  Rune Factory has a high replay vaule if you 
 beat all the dungeon bosses. Rune Facotry is not for everyone you know, it's intended for mostly 
 Harvest Moon Fans who owns a Nintendo DS. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Inyae_Yumil
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 23, 2008 1:43 pm PT
Review:  This newest release in the Harvest Moon series is probably the best since Friends of Mineral Town. 
 You can fight monsters or make them become your friend to fight beside you, or to help you with 
 your crops. You can still do all the other fun things from previous Harvest Moon titles. For example 
 you can get married to one of the ten girls that live throughout the world, and you can grow large 
 crops, however you may not be able to raise animals anymore, instead you can raise pets that you 
 befriend on your journey into the unknown. With the new fighting system embeded into the game it 
 makes it to the top of the Harvest Moon food chain at numero uno. Although it does have a few downsides, 
 (I still haven't been able to figure out how to get the hammer so I can mine ore and upgrade my 
 tools) , and to upgrade your house the cost is two thousand pieces of wood and two-hundred thousand 
 gold. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: divinenanny
Rating: 8
Date: Nov 5, 2008 2:56 am PT
Review:  Rune Factory is a spin off of Harvest Moon. In Harvest Moon you had to farm to advance in the game, 
 where in the end you could gain wealth and marry. The basic premise of Rune Factory is the same, 
 however, with the addition of dungeons filled with monsters (and fields to farm) .
  The combination works remarkably well. Something I found great was the edition of a "life meter" 
 on the main screen, where I could keep an eye on the general health of my character. 
  There are two bars of health now. Regular health, which will take a hit when fighting and getting 
 hurt, as well as Rune Points. Rune points are used for farming (each action, except for planting 
 and harvesting costs rune points) as well as fighting (each hit delivered costs points, as well 
 as spells you cast) . When you run out of Rune Points, your Health will be depleted when you preform 
 an action that needs Rune Points.
  The game strikes a good balance, and lets the player set his or her own pace. You can grind to 
 make progress easier, or dash through a cave based on brute strength and potions.
  A very good game, with lovely graphics. Another nice point is that it mainly uses buttons, not 
 the touch screen, which I find a huge advantage, and makes player better.
  I recommend this game to RPG lovers like me, who like the story advancements better than the fighting. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dentedskillet
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 5, 2008 1:31 pm PT
Review:  I have to say, I am a Harvest Moon fan, but I was starting to get bored with the series. Sure they 
 added some new basic features, towns, etc but it was starting to feel like I was always playing 
 the same game over and over. That changed with Rune Factory. I love this game.
  
  I will start with the opening sequence. Sure it isn't part of playing and most everyone only watches 
 this once or twice, but I have to say it is brilliant. The animation and sound are great, and it 
 does probably the best job I have ever seen of telling you what the game is about. I also have 
 to admit, I am a big anime fan, so that was also apart of the appeal for me.
  
  In regards to the game, I thought it was great. I will start with Gamespots criticism of the stylus. 
 Sure, there are games out there that make you use it more, and in more creative ways, but I do 
 not see that as a weak point for this game. I consider the stylus on the DS to be a bonus feature 
 that adds a new dynamic and possibility to game play, but I don't think of it as a necessity. I 
 think some games force you to use it and it just makes the game more cumbersome and worse. I felt 
 this game did a good job of adding it, but I never felt overwhelmed in its usage. A great game 
 doesn't in most cases need a stylus at all, and this is one I think did just fine with its liberal 
 use.
  
  Since I have been rambling on, and a lot of other reviews are already out describing what I am 
 going to say, I will try to keep the rest here short. I loved the fighting added to the game. It 
 made this game have the value of 2 games in my opinion. I admit, the combat is a little difficult 
 at first, but have patience, save before you go in dungeons, and have patience, and you will move 
 along just fine, and it will get easier. Money harvesting for better gear is also recommended. 
 The rest of the game is pretty standard Harvest Moon stuff. I like that farming is obviously there, 
 but I appreciated it not really being too necessary as previous games felt. I like it as a part 
 of the game, but not most of the game. I thought getting monster help with this to be quite fun 
 too. As for the girls, and their side quest, I really liked it too, and felt it really had more 
 of a storyline than other HM games. I really felt more immersed into the game instead of an onlooker 
 making a game play.
  
  Guess I have said enough at this point. Graphics I thought were great too. Not the best I have 
 ever seen, but very nice. Maybe I appreciate the detail, since I am from the old school of Atari, 
 NES, SNES, etc, and I find it amazing that a game like this on a portable system can blow those 
 old slabs of concrete away. 
  
  Anyway, if you even like HM or RPGs in general even a little bit, I feel this is a safe purchase. 
 The sequel will be out soon, so the price is pretty good at this point. I can't wait for the sequel 
 to hit. A+++++ 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Kapuran
Rating: 9.5
Date: Aug 30, 2008 9:56 am PT
Review:  Take your traditional Harvest Moon, mature it a bit, add elements of action RPG/dungeon crawler 
 and monster tamer, mix it together and you've essentially got Rune Factory.
  
  Now, I've always loved the Harvest Moon series, even if the only ones I could play until now have 
 been the SNES version and a bit of the GBA version (I seriously hate harvest sprites, as it were, 
 so HMDS is no good) . But Rune Factory is what Harvest Moon should have been all along. First of 
 all, the game is "over" when all the main story quests are finished; that is, you've completed 
 all the dungeons. This is piss easy. The only reason you won't finish this in a matter of hours 
 is because about halfway through, you need to wait until Winter to continue. I reached this point 
 in summer.
  
  So, you do what you always do in HM; you farm. You raise livestock (which, unlike previous HM titles, 
 you need to hunt down and tame yourself; there are four types of produce animals, and then there 
 are worker class which water and harvest for you and battle class which fight alongside you in 
 the dungeons, which is awesome) . However, this is all secondary to the dungeon crawling in actuality, 
 which detracts from the traditional farming simulation of the game.
  
  Still, I found Rune Factory to be immensely fun, moreso than any HM title I've played since GBA, 
 and I am greatly looking forward to the sequel and future titles in this newly created franchise. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ravencr0w
Rating: 7
Date: Aug 10, 2008 5:19 pm PT
Review:  Rune Factory tries to be an action rpg and a farming sim and literally falls somewhere mediocre 
 in between. It was a brave attempt to bring two worlds together and it is a good idea. But the 
 results just isn't good enough, imho.
  
  As a farming sim, the controls are excellent and the graphics are beautiful. It has just about 
 everything that the Harvest Moon games have. Fields to till, people to make friends with, equipments 
 to upgrade etc. Unfortunately, having to catch monsters to substitute for farm animals is just 
 not working out. 
  
  There are chicken-type monsters and cow-type monsters to catch for eggs and milk for example, and 
 there are also monsters you can catch, enslave and make them work on the farm for a bit of feed 
 a day. They just live in those boring huts.
  
  It's action rpg element is pretty interesting. You farm in the caves and full fields yield a sort 
 of energy ball for your character to replenished used energy to continue deeper into the caves. 
 
  
  Monsters and monster generators are littered in a reasonable way, but the way your character swings 
 the weapon is really painful looking and slow. It's all about the timing of course.
  
  For what's it's worth, it is a beautiful game and the controls are excellent, better than Harvest 
 Moon DS. There's a great big town with lots of characters to interact with and you can do things 
 like fishing. There's still a lot to like about this game but it's not as good as it ought to be.
 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: angelofwingz
Rating: 10
Date: Aug 2, 2008 7:08 pm PT
Review:  Rune Factory is a revoulutionary HM game that gives it a twist by adding battles, friendship levels, 
 and ridable pets that can help or your farm. What makes the farming part of the game so great is 
 that you can walk over your crops unlike harvest moon DS. This game never ends so you can spend 
 hundreds of hours playing it . 5 stars amazing spectacular genious brilliant revolutionary if you 
 buy a harvest moon game buy this one its only twenty dollars if you dont like harvest moon this 
 will still be fun for you. i would rank this as the best game ever besides the sequal and persona 
 3 . i would buy this now and finish it be fore the sequl comes out , which features the same character 
 cast 10 years later , and has 2 story modes, the first character and then his son. the girls in 
 this game are like the dallop of cream on top of a pie. they give you lunch and etc. BUY THIS GAME 
 NOW! The big twist in Rune Factory is the combat. There are nearby dungeons for the player to explore. 
 Each dungeon is filled with monsters. Part of the story involves the main character's mysterious 
 background and how it ties into the town's troubles.
  
  
  
  A large part of the game involves management. Players have to decide how they're going to manage 
 crops, leisure time, fighting time, and more. Beginners might find the slow pace and large task 
 lists a bit daunting. Players with intermediate and advanced gaming experience will have an easier 
 time with it. A lot of patience is required to succeed in this game.
  
  
  GO RAMEN!!! xD 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Peach100
Rating: 7.5
Date: Aug 1, 2008 1:14 pm PT
Review:  As I started out playing the game I enjoyed it. The caves were neatly done and the monsters that 
 I fought were cool. When I explored the town I thought that the layout of the scenes were nice 
 and that the insides of the buildings couldn't have been done better on the DS. I liked the realistic 
 look of the game.
  
  Battling monsters were fairly easy depending upon which cave you're in. The many different caves 
 and monsters that I ran into kept me occupied and from getting bored too quickly. Which was a good 
 thing. I didn't like games that were like Rune Factory in the past, namely Harvest Moon DS, so 
 I didn't think I'd be into this game. I wasn't exactly bored of this game but I also wasn't going 
 around wishing that I could play it.
  
  I missed the "real" animals aspect of the game and I wasn't in tune with the monsters that I did 
 own. Meaning I couldn't pet, brush, or milk them with the touch screen, etc.
  
  I liked planting seeds and harvesting crops the most. The graphics made the game seem alive and 
 the music gave me a peaceful feeling while I was lying on my bed planting my Tomato seeds. Yes, 
 planting seeds and harvesting the crops was, oddly enough, my favorite activity to do in the game.
 
  
  The festivals were also nicely done. I enjoyed going to them and being able to talk to my "lover" 
 and giving her a gift. In this particular game you must play as a boy but there is a game that 
 has been released, Run Factory 2, in which you can play as a girl. It's a nice game. That's really 
 all there is to it. The graphics are good as is the music.
  
  I liked the many characters that inhabited the town. Every character had their own personality 
 trait, or so it seemed. Maybe they were just all weird in their own way and that's what made them 
 seem different.
  
  The marriage requirements were easy, medium or hard depending on each girl. The one I married was 
 hard to get so that added a challenge to the game, which in turn, gave more excitement.
  
  The game was nicely made. But the "nice" part about the game doesn't keep you glued too long. That's 
 why I don't play it anymore.
  
  Not to mention the Wi-Fi was terrible! All I was able to do was trade items back and forth and 
 write a message in a box on the touch screen, like in Pictochat. But even that wasn't an easy task 
 becayse when I would write a message to the other player I would get disconnected. This problem 
 occurred with everyone I linked with. And it happened to them as well.
  
  Once again, I recommend that this game be rented first and then bought if the renter enjoyed it. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Charlie_Strife
Rating: 2
Date: Jun 26, 2008 8:06 pm PT
Review:  Well, the game doesn't grab my attenchion as the a game i would want to play when i fist pick up 
 my DS for the day, but once i do start playing it i'll play it for hours on end. I find it kinda 
 hard, but i'm really bad at RPG's so it would probably be really easy for the true gamer. I find 
 it sorta hard to Beat the monsters but growing crops and making relationships with the townspeople 
 is alot easyier. I like how you can grow crops all year long in the caves. that is awesome because 
 then you could grow that fruit that you love interest likes all year round. I Myself wouldn't pay 
 full price for this game but you should for sure buy it used. it just isnt worth full price on 
 how much i enjoyed it because after a while the game gets pretty boring. or at least thats how 
 i feel because i cant get passed the first cave (level) . It is diffently the hardest Harvest Moon 
 yet. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lost_in_general
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jun 19, 2008 12:42 am PT
Review:  INTRO
  Rune Factory is based heavily off the Harvest Moon series which, for those of you familiar, is 
 principally a farming game, with little new to offer throughout its many, many games. Rune Factory 
 offers a neat little twist on tradition, and is definitely worth checking out.
  
  GAMEPLAY
  The story is a little generic, but it's forgiveable. You are a man who has lost his 
 memory. We will refer to this man as "Raguna", because that is his default name, although you are 
 free to name him after yourself, your favorite TV show character, or something like Assface, if 
 you want. Raguna has travelled far from somewhere he has only vague memories of, and fortunately 
 stumbles across a weird girl's house. Her name is Mist. You will come to hate her in time.
  
  Mist is an odd, odd girl, who gives you your farm. Just like that. No strings attached. Free 
 farm, there you go. And you just met her. As the seasons cycle (about 30 game days per season, 
 each day is actually only around fifteen to twenty minutes long, roughly) you will plant a variety 
 of vegetables here, from radishes to potatoes. Farming is not very difficult, though at times it 
 is a bit tedious. If you are familiar with the Harvest Moon series, this is nothing new, but for 
 newcomers, the amount of time you spend plowing and watering might just drive you insane.
  
  Every day, when you wake up in the morning, unplowed sections of your farm will have sprouted 
 debris, usually weeds and a variety of colorful grasses and "herbs". The game gives you the option 
 to eat all of these things, and while it might be a better idea to sell them (most everything in 
 the game can be sold; apparently people will pay for decrepit weeds in Rune Factory's world) sometimes 
 you just can't resist the urge to consume a few hundred weeds in a row. Just like real life. This 
 debris is harmless, usually, until a hurricane hits, and everything you've grown has been replaced 
 by boulders and stumps, which are now rooted into your field (???) . At the beginning of the game, 
 this might tempt you to smash your DS as this debris is initially unremovable until you level up 
 your tools through what is (at first) an expensive trip to the blacksmith. Resist this urge.
  
  If farming frustrates you - and this is truly the glory of Rune Factory - you can pick up your 
 sword and go adventurin'. Unfortunately you cannot kill the townspeople, who will occasionally 
 tempt you to stab them, but you can head into the caves and kill monsters in a very classic, dungeon-crawling 
 way. However, unlike your favorite dungeon crawler, in order to move on to harder dungeons you 
 must plow. That's right. You can kill the boss of the dungeon, but before you're allowed to move 
 onto bigger, badder enemies, you have to prove you're hardcore by plowing the caves.
  
  You receive permits to go to the caves from a kindly old man who acts as your mayor. He is just 
 one of many townspeople, many of whom are not particularly likeable. For instance, there is the 
 man who runs the general store where you will be forced to visit every time you wish to replenish 
 your stock of seeds. This man's creepiness borders on the level of a serial killer, and he speaks 
 to you with a voice that cause children to scream and run. You will also come across the guy who 
 never opens his eyes, a hippo in people's clothing (presumably) , a Spanish (?) maid, a witch who 
 is obsessed with the hotspring she runs, and more. This brings me to the courting aspect of the 
 game, where you can pick any girl you like and bombard her with senseless gifts (milk, rocks, etc.) 
 to earn her affection and eventually marry her, to bear a useless offspring.
  
  These are the steps you will take in unlocking the mystery of Raguna's past, and the world around 
 you. Admittedly, it doesn't click together very well. But it's still good.
  
  GRAPHICS
  They're nothing special, but they're pretty good. The character art is done well - most 2D aspects 
 are pretty well done, actually - but the 3D can leave some things to be desired.
  
  SOUND
  The music is well-done and doesn't get repetative, thanks to the switching of music everytime 
 the seasons change, and the fact that pretty much every area has its own music. The voice acting, 
 however, is atrocious, and as I said, every time you hear the general store owner speak, you will 
 want to kill him. Tragically, your sword does not cut people.
  
  VALUE
  The game has quite a bit of value in terms of playtime, though you'll hardly want to start a new 
 game once it's over. You can keep playing on your farm, but... there's not much point once you've 
 done everything.
  
  OVERALL/OTHER
  Rune Factory is hardly incredible to passer-bys. For Harvest Moon fans it's hit or miss, but for 
 anybody who hasn't tried Harvest Moon, or didn't especially like other installations, Rune Factory 
 is worth a look, just for the diversity of play. If farming isn't your bag, there are monsters 
 to kill, and having the extra option of a whole new dimension of play isn't so bad. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Nalanji
Rating: 1.5
Date: Jun 9, 2008 3:28 pm PT
Review:  When I went to the store, I was expecting something amazing to come out of Rune Factory, but I 
 probably should've known that this'd end the way it did. Totally awfully.
  
  Audio ~ 5/10 :;
  
  The audio is pretty much what you can expect from a cheap Nintendo DS game. 
 There is absolutely nothing special about it. They did a mediocre job, and that's the only way 
 I can put it.
  
  Graphics ~ 7/10 :;
  
  The graphics aren't bad. They are pretty good in comparison to the Harvest Moon DS but not that 
 much better. It's just good looking, the same overhead camera angles are used, and the color design 
 is well thought out. Nothing absolutely revolutionary, but it's good looking all the same
  
  Gameplay ~ 2/10 :;
  
  Just awful. They pretty much took a great franchise and decided to 
 make some awful spin-off. If they were looking for absolute junk, they found it, congratulations 
 on your accomplishment. Come on, getting a farm from some dumb girl, and fighting monsters in your 
 spare time? Give me a break. 
  
  This game is terrible. If you want a good one to play, try any of the Harvest Moon games. They 
 are the same game types, but you don't have to beat the daylights out of monsters, you just have 
 to manage your farm and your life. 110% better, do not pick this game up at all costs. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: teddyleger
Rating: 9.5
Date: May 10, 2008 2:55 pm PT
Review:  howevethe game "rune factory" is a fun, new way to enjoy the old harvest moon games! you can do 
 allot of stuff like harvest moon, besides buying animals, you tame them! and the all new monster 
 killing and rune abiltys with spells make it great! so does the new house, and the new people! 
 the people have little anamation and dont say anything much but "buy something!" r it dosent take 
 much to like them. with a new, interesting storyline requiring the player to go into many danger 
 filled caves, also farming to get past them by collecting rune power, from farming in caves or 
 your field, to restore your rune power allowing you to cast spells to kill monsters, move around, 
 and make a more interesting harvest moon, it also is used as bonus energy to plow your field and 
 grow your crops! there are very few problums with this game! for example, it is really hard to 
 get wood for a house upgrade, however there is only 1 upgrade so after that you dont really ever 
 need wood. and there is the fact that after you lose your rune power, that will never increase 
 its MAX, you lose HP (your energy) that does. to get more HP you must level up. to heal or restore 
 your RP you must eat your own home cooked food! the home cooked food takes time to digest so you 
 cant always eat eaither. now to change the subject. to continue in the game you dont NEED to do 
 both types of playing but doing it at the same time makes it easyer for you as well! for example 
 grow some crops and use the money to buy weapons, use the weapons to kill enemys and level up, 
 then use the increase of the max HP to grow more, to level up more, to continue the story and have 
 greater overall fun! overall i rate this 9.5/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: chickenlady4321
Rating: 8
Date: May 10, 2008 2:06 pm PT
Review:  I love the game! Its very fun and is a great rpg. I only have 2 problems with the game. 1. like 
 most harvest moon games you cant play as a girl character. 2. The battleing system is very difficult 
 and basically like most other games battle systems like Legend of Zelda. I die in seconds just 
 in the first cave. I hate that when you die in caves you have to go clear back to where you last 
 saved. Its a big pain because there arnt very many saving spots in the caves and after saving at 
 those points it doesnt heal you like you would expect them too. But other than that it has all 
 the things I love about all the past harvest moon games. Including getting married, planting crops, 
 owning animals, fishing, mining, and choping logs. I wouldnt suggest this game to anyone bad at 
 the classic Legend of Zelda games XD. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Fire_Emblem_RD
Rating: 8
Date: Apr 27, 2008 7:22 pm PT
Review:  You don't know where you are, you dont know who you are and you've been wandering the paths of 
 an unknown world for a very long while, before you collapse onto the ground in front of a house. 
 A girl comes out, refreshes you and takes you to a farm so you can start a new life, though farming 
 is not the only thing you'll want to do.
  Near where you live there are many caves filled with many monsters, after you do the base requirements 
 you get a pass to go to the cave where the monsters kill you in about 4 hits. But train and you 
 can kill them in one hit!
  Of course killing monsters isnt the only thing you will want to do, crops help you refill you're 
 RP points which are lost as you do Physical Activities and use magic. 
  There are times when you just go through caves and battling there biggest monsters over and over, 
 slowly getting stronger and maybe recruiting some helping monsters, and monsters for other purposes. 
 Though slowly by merely talking to people they'll like you and girls will love you. You'll want 
 to harvest lumber and expand your house, by doing this you can do much more things such as forge 
 etc. 
  With heaps of food you can cook, accessories to make, weapons and tools to forge and medicines 
 to make, you'll probably find you'll have spent a lot of good mostly fun, time trying to finish 
 the game 100% 
::::::

::::::
UserName: purpoco747
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 14, 2008 2:37 pm PT
Review:  You are lost, don't know your name, don't know where did you come from. Then, you get a farm and 
 a place to live. You, without any options, stay in the house and start working in the farm. Near 
 the place you live, there are a fair number of caves and dungeon, filled with many monster. What 
 you need to do? Raise crops, get some helping monsters and explore the dungeons. At the beginning, 
 the monsters will kill you in three attacks. But train hard and YOU will be able to kill you in 
 three attacks. 
  
  
  The game is not all about killing monster. You can also "enjoy" the hard farming work. You can 
 also build a family and get a bigger house. There are a few shops that sell an incredibly big number 
 of very useful items, that will help you in both, explorer job and farmer job.
  
  
  There are a few tiring parts, where you get stuck for some time trying to do the same thing.
 
  
  
  There is an infinite number of food that you can cook, acessories to make, weapons and tools to 
 forge and medicine to make. So you can pass some good time completing the game 100%.
  
  
  This game is simply a mix of a basic ?RPG game with a Harvest Moon game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: NinjaBrownie
Rating: 5.5
Date: Mar 30, 2008 4:03 pm PT
Review:  What is this! The fighting is horrible, everyone in the town is brain dead, and the only replay 
 value there is is watering carrot seeds. Your monsters cant fight to save there lives, and you 
 take damage from running out of stamina (which happens a lot in the game) Its a failed attempt 
 to put RPG elements in a Harvest Moon game in order to compete with the "train and trade your monster 
 pets" hype that every kid (and some adults) are into. Just like watching paint dry, this game is 
 boring. Besides battleing, everyday life is just like other Harvest Moon games. Bad things aside, 
 it is a good idea, just not a working idea. Trial and error, right? The animation is good, with 
 a whole anime vibe to it, and character design is like straight out of a Tales game. Monsters can 
 be cute, like sheep rabbits, to just downright strange like a ape fused with a bat. If you like 
 monster battling games, stick with Pokemon or Digimon games. For people new to the series, try 
 Harvest Moon from the Wii Shop Channel of Harvest Moon DS. Parents beware- if your child gets mad 
 easily, dont buy. It gets really frustrating at times (more like every time you try to swing a 
 hoe) . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: u8nogard
Rating: 7.5
Date: Mar 12, 2008 7:25 am PT
Review:  Before I give my opinion about this game, a couple things in I want to mention  I have not finished 
 this game yet, and this is my first owned DS game that I have played. A friend of mine mentioned 
 that I should get this game. He has heard really good reviews on this game and the Harvest Moon 
 Series have a good reputation to them. The Rune Factory game in the area is hard to come by so 
 I made the purchase.
  
  I have never played a farming aspect game, and I find it rather slow. I feel that you can only 
 do so much by planning seeds and watering them and then harvesting them or just leaving them there 
 so that you can use the rune point for the energy later. Later in the game when you capture monsters, 
 some of them can do the work for you. The farming leads to other skill that you can develop  cooking 
 is an example.
  
  The monster dungeon crawling does add a twist in the game strategy. It forces you to adventure 
 thru them to advance in the story, built into the game. It does come at a cost  rune points  
 which is viewed as your stamina. Once your stamina is gone, it cuts into your health. 
  
  The relationship building game is interesting. By communication to town folk and their daughters 
 will earn you friendships and love. I suppose you could play this game over and over trying to 
 woo each characters love  which all comes down how much time you have for this game.
  
  Another option that I have found interesting is the trade factor in the game. If you get one of 
 your friends to own the game as well, you can trade items with each other; upon doing so, your 
 items level  which in the end, increase in value.
  
  In opinion, it seems that I am constantly micromanaging everything that comes my way. I feel that 
 I am trying to power level my way thru the game and advance myself before I even can get to the 
 spot in the game where it should be done all just because I view the game timeline slow. Yes, 
 this is a good game, but Rune Factory might not be the game for me. I do think that everyone should 
 give this game a chance. Will I try another Harvest Moon game in the series? I think my answer 
 will depend upon what Rune Factory 2 reviews state.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: CorinTalisman
Rating: 8
Date: Feb 12, 2008 11:31 am PT
Review:  I first discovered Harvest Moon for my GameBoy Advance and fell in love with the laid back style 
 of game that it is. Sure you can get married, but I was into the farming part. My only issue with 
 the game at times was that there was no real story involved. That being said, my life is similar 
 and that's probably what kept me going.
  
  Now, years later, I find Rune Factory for the DS. It's a new take on Harvest Moon. The game starts 
 off with your character wandering towards a small town when he passes out next to a house. The 
 girl from the house comes out and helps you, though in ways one would never expect. First she hands 
 you a hoe, then a watering can, and then she finally gives you some bread and water to revive you. 
 The beginning is strange, there's no doubt about it, but I'm not sure how else they could have 
 gotten you to become a farmer without a long opening cutscene.
  
  In addition to your normal farming, you can enter caves around the area where you can fight monsters 
 and do additional farming. Each cave has a season that it is like and there you can grow crops 
 year-round. Eventually you also receive a glove for taming monsters, as they are the new livestock 
 in the game, so to speak.
  
  I admit that towards the end of the first year I had progressed far enough through the caves that 
 mining was a much better source of income and I easily made several million in the game without 
 doing any more farming. I would perform the requirements for getting into the next cave, but that 
 was it. Many of my crops were left untouched once they had sprouted to provide me with additional 
 Rune Points while I cleared the caves.
  
  Though the game has an end to the story, you can continue to play the game to do more farming, 
 forging, and foraging (amongst several other things) and get every item in the game. You also gain 
 one other female to court and a few more crops to grow once the story is finished.
  
  It was a bit frustrating at the beginning of the game, but eventually it became quite easy. The 
 forging remained challenging to the end trying to get monsters to drop the items you needed, but 
 overall the game was fun. If you aren't a fan of collection, action-RPG, and Harvest Moon games, 
 you may not like it, but I enjoyed my experience and found the ending fairly gratifying. I look 
 forward to the next Rune Factory game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Evil_Addiction
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 4, 2008 6:12 pm PT
Review:  Monsters, magic and marriage are a very interesting mix and noo ne other than Natsume could pull 
 it off this well. It's up to you to decide whether you're going to brave the caves or simply stay 
 at home and care for your crops. Personally, I chose to do both, capturing both monsters and the 
 heart of my bride to be. Lame joking aside, Rune Factory can be either a treat for Harvest Moon 
 fans or a total let down- it really depends on the gamer. What I liked best was the forge that 
 comes with your house remodeling. Not only can you strengthen your tools, but you can equip yourself 
 for some cave-crawling too. The two problems that kept me from giving this a ten is the fact that 
 one of your marriage options is doomed to never notice you unless you give her some rare fish you 
 can only find one month a year and the fact that, like all Harvest Moon games, you do eventually 
 run out of things to do. For those of you who don't really relish the idea of fighting monsters, 
 I suggest you first rent the game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MRxMADxMONKEY
Rating: 6
Date: Feb 2, 2008 11:53 pm PT
Review:  There is fighting in Rune Factory, I believe everyone knows this, but even knowing this I personally 
 was expecting that same Harvest Moon charm which this game just didn't seem to have.
  
  The game begins with you wandering into a village, with no memory of who you were, starving half 
 to death. This girl named Mist brings you some food and water (or rather, a hoe and a watering 
 can) , and asks if you would like to work on her farm and see if it'll help return your memory, 
 and even if it didn't at least you would have some place to live. You agree (or disagree, you can 
 take your pick, but if you disagree the girl wont shut up until you tell her you will) and she 
 takes you to it, when she does a monster appears in your farm and you must kill it with your hoe. 
 So as you can tell, it's not an average "dads dead so I'm taking over his farm" story, but that 
 doesn't matter, it's about the gameplay right?
  
  Well on the farm it's a pretty basic Harvest Moon game more or less. But after plowing 100 squares, 
 Mayor Godwin gives you a pass to enter the first cave. In my opinion, the caves are absolutely 
 horrid. The design of them, the fact that you must destroy every monster just to open the boss 
 door, and the boss door itself can take a while to find in most cases. The combat isn't all that 
 great either, but it's not quite as bad as I had expected. There are several caves, all have different 
 climates along with small fields, so even if it's winter you can still grow summer produce so long 
 as your in the right cave for it.
  
  In the caves are different monsters which you may choose to capture, but I dont remember any of 
 the species names. But some look a bit like a Pokemon sheep, some look like a Pokemon cow, some 
 look like a Pokemon chicken, but even if they do resemble animals a bit I still missed having just 
 plain farm animals. Along with monsters such as those are monsters that you can have work on the 
 farm, one example is a beetle whos job is to harvest crops. Also instead of a horse, you may ride 
 on a wolf which can be found as early as the second cave.
  
  If you get bored of killing monsters and growing crops in the caves, you may choose to mine, and 
 if you don't want to do that then you can fish outside of caves in the ocean or inside caves in 
 small ponds - and the ponds have fish you can't catch in the ocean, so it is worth your time to 
 fish in the ponds when you happen to run by one.
  
  One thing I cant stand is there's only one spot in each cave to save your game, and it's generally 
 rather difficult to get to because it isn't halfway through the cave as you would expect, it's 
 usually located only a room or two away from the boss.
  
  In the caves if your RP runs out, you die and it's game over. If your not in a cave and it runs 
 out, you wake up in the doctors just fine. But because every action you do lowers your RP, and 
 getting damaged lowers both HP and RP, you'll find yourself dieing extremely often in caves unless 
 you bring lots of food & medicine, and have a fairly decent camping level. But when you grow crops 
 you can pick up a floating blue rune which slightly fills your RP bar, so they intend for you to 
 plant crops halfway through, then run back and fourth through the caves to fill your watering can 
 again and again every time it becomes empty. This is a HUGE pain, and the worst thing about the 
 game. It gets very frustrating, and at times you wont have any ponds you can refill with, so you'll 
 have to run out of the cave to fill your watering can, then run back in (leaving and reentering 
 a cave spawns all the monsters back) to fight your way to the crops to water them - keep in mind 
 that your RP runs out every time you fill the can, water a crop, and swing your sword. However 
 to can speed things up the slightest bit by using a teleport spell (more on spells in a minute) 
 to return to the cave entrance - however, there are several things that can happen which will disable 
 this spell until you go to the doctor and have him heal you.
  
  So if you manage to grow some crops, you can fight til the end of the cave, then go back and get 
 your runes to fill your RP, and then go fight the boss.
  
  The bosses are too easy, the challenge is in the caves which aren't even all that challenging so 
 much as they are annoying and time consuming.
  
  But once the story is over and done with, and you can spend time simply gathering monsters and 
 building huts for them (you can build 7 monster huts, they hold 4 monsters each, and if you want 
 more you can build a second underground floor in each which hold 4 more monsters, and then you 
 may build yet another floor for another 4 monsters) as well as basic farming and fishing, you'll 
 see that Harvest Moon charm you had been missing. The longer you spend with it, the more you grow 
 to love it.
  
  After upgrading your house you can forge your own weapons and items, and mix up your own medicine 
 all of which can't be bought from anywhere else. The library sells books with the ingredients you 
 need to make certain things, along with what skill level you have to be for it to come out successful.
 
  
  You may get married, but there is no way to have children in this Harvest Moon. The girls you can 
 choose to marry are: Bianca, Felicity, Lara, Lynette, Mei, Melody, Mist, Sharron, and Roseette. 
 None of the girls are particularly hard to marry, aside from Mei who's quite difficult to impress.
 
  
  The graphics in this game are pretty nice - just not the characters. From a distance the characters 
 look okay, but when you see one up close they're just a deformed looking mutant thing with no mouth, 
 eyes, or nose that I can see.
  
  It's not at bad game, but it's certainly not a game for everyone, and old fans of the Harvest Moon 
 series such as myself will find a lot not to love. The fact that only a small handful of people 
 will truly enjoy this game is the only reason I couldn't give it more than a 6.0. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hemadre
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jan 13, 2008 10:56 am PT
Review:  Try to imagine yourself as a young child in the early 90's. You're playing Harvest Moon on the 
 SNES or PS1. For those of you who don't know about the Harvest Moon series, it's basically a farming 
 game where you grow crops, raise animals, and get a wife and family. Despite its odd sounding premise, 
 the games are shockingly addictive and entertaining. Now, imagine that, as that young child playing 
 a run-of-the-mill Harvest Moon game, you suddenly somehow peek into the future. You see a guy playing 
 a Harvest Moon game where you're battling against monsters with a shovel. Any average person would 
 be skeptical beyond words. However, Harvest Moon: Rune Factory is an amazing game that stays relatively 
 close to formula, while creating enough new stuff to keep it fresh.
  
  Story: There's usually not too much story in a Harvest Moon game. The plot usually consists of 
 "You gained your father/uncle/insert relative's land after he died/moved/insert reason here, so 
 now the farm's yours to grow stuff on". Rune Factory, though, succeeds where other Harvest Moons 
 have failed, by actually giving us a background story. Apparently, there's some war going on outside 
 of your fair little town, and the bastards running the far-off empire are placing monster generators 
 in caves throughout the town in an attempt to summon a giant dragon to use as a war machine. You, 
 a young man with amnesia, have been given a small slab of land to use to make money off of, and 
 because you have felt that you have been accepted by the townsfolk so much (and because, despite 
 the amnesia, it seems that you used to have some fighting ability) , you defend the town from all 
 the monsters and whatnot. The fact that there is a sign leading to the empire, yet you may never 
 enter, is a tantalizing clue to a sequel (which is already in production, by the way) . Sure it's 
 no Fire Emblem or Kingdom Hearts, but this game's story is satisfying enough to keep you going.
 
  
  Control: Walking in this game feels just like about any handheld adventure game. It's nothing special, 
 but it's definitely not uncomfortable. The touch screen controls are, for the most part, only used 
 for farming. You tap different squares of land with different items equiped, and it speeds up the 
 process greatly. If you have no item equiped, you automatically pick the item and stow it away. 
 If you have the sickle, you trim away at grass. If it's the hoe, you dig up the land. If it's a 
 hammer, you smash away pesky rocks. The stylus is also used to navigate through menus of items 
 and whatnot, which is definitely more desireable then having to tap your way through with the D-Pad. 
 Other than those mentioned above, there aren't too many touch-based controls. And personally, I 
 guess I'm kinda glad. There's enough to make it worthy of being a DS game, and not too much to 
 make it overly gimmicky. Battling monsters is, although frustrating at times, definitely better 
 than some might think. Despite the comical intro I gave, you don't really fight monsters with shovels. 
 Well, you can, but you'd probably be killed before you could do much. Lucky for you, a blacksmith 
 lives in town, and, once you've got enough money to expand your house, you can forge your own weaponry. 
 Swords, spears, axes, and magic tomes are all at your disposal to do away with the retched beasts. 
 An interesting note is that you can tame monsters and have them either pick up crops, water plants, 
 let you ride on them from place to place, or fight alongside you. Although you may only use one 
 monster at a time, the fact that, once they die, they return home at full health, stops you from 
 worrying all too much about keeping your monsters alive. Well, I got off the main topic a little 
 back there, so let me get back to controls. You can't walk and fight, which sometimes allows you 
 to be bombarded from different sides by many monsters, but if you're smart about your fighting, 
 you should be fine. If there is one thing I may complain about, it's the quick menus. By tapping 
 L and one of the four buttons on the right, you may get out seperate items to equip an item to 
 hold, a magic book, and a weapon. This can be frustrating, as, for being quick, sometimes it takes 
 forever to find the one item you're looking for. However, at least it's better than Phantom Hourglass, 
 where while you're getting out your potion, the game keeps going so that a monster can run up and 
 kill you.
  
  Graphics: The graphics in this game range from great to silly. The character designs, in conversation, 
 look really good, since this game adopts an anime-style design, whereas past games have been all 
 cutesy. Characters actually look their age, instead of all looking like kids and older kids, and 
 (in the case of A Wonderful Life) , kids who have sex with kids and have kids that look just as 
 old as they do. Now moving on to the actual in-game graphics. The design models are relatively 
 good. They're no Phantom Hourglass or Metroid Prime: Hunters, but they're definitely better than 
 some of the garbage out there on the DS. I guess you could say they look like (non-fighting) models 
 of characters from FFVII or Legend of Dragoon. I don't know whether that's a good thing or a bad 
 thing. There is, however, one big flaw in the graphics: sometimes we see the monsters up close, 
 namely when looking at their stats and when we're first naming them. They do nothing to proportionalize 
 the graphics at this point, causing them to look really, really polygon-y. However, since this 
 you don't have to look at them like that throughout the entire game, it is stomachable.
  
  Audio: This game has some pretty damn good music. Each dungeon has a different track then is variantly 
 different and captures the theme of the dungeon. You'll find yourself singing all of the peppy, 
 mellow, or epic pieces throughout the game as you're in each dungeon. During conversations, there 
 will be a few occasional voice clips such as "Hello" and "Thank you" and "Greetings". Although 
 most of the characters have good voices, the only strange exception is Mist, who sounds one way 
 when saying "Hello", then sounds completely different when saying "Thank you very much". Other 
 than those sound bites and the sounds of sword clanking, there's nothing overly impressive about 
 the sound, but that doesn't mean it's bad.
  
  Length: This game is monstrously long. It is, without a doubt, the longest DS game to date. There 
 are so many fun little distractions, you'll lose track of all time. After you beat a dungeon, you 
 can still go back and grow crops in it, as dungeons have climates that match never-ending seasons. 
 The first dungeon is a spring dungeon, the second is a fall dungeon, and so on. There are always 
 tons of things to aim for to give you a reason to keep on going. This game has a vast number of 
 dungeons, all of which are fast enough to conquer, but with their monsters to battle and obtain, 
 crops to grow, and rich minerals to hammer out from stone, you never get bored of any of the dungeons. 
 This game will keep you entertained for hours upon hours on end.
  
  Replay Value: I'll admit, this game doesn't have too much replay value. It's like Pokemon, where 
 you put a whole bunch of time into it, and don't feel like playing it all again. However, if you 
 do have an extreme love for this game, and still feel like you're begging for more once it's all 
 over (like I was) , then a second play through may be just as entertaining, or moreso, than the 
 first.
  
  Multiplayer: I never tried the multiplayer for myself, so I don't know too much about it. All I 
 know is that there's a special place where you can go on Wi-Fi and do stuff with other players. 
 I dunno, I think it has to be with sharing data or something like that. I'm sure it's good; I just 
 never got around to it.
  
  Boss Fights: Surprisingly, a farming game has monstrous and terrifying, yet entirely epic bosses. 
 They are all unique, yet can all scare you shxtless. They're not too easy yet not too difficult. 
 They might take more than one try to kill, but it's oh so satisfying once you beat them. Other 
 than how great they are, I guess there's not much else to say about them.
  
  Final Boss: The final boss, a giant, horrendous dragon that is to be used as a weapon for war, 
 is pretty damn hard to kill. It'll take two, maybe three tries to kill it, but once you've beat 
 it, there's a huge epilogue that will close most questions. It's nothing overly remarkable, as 
 all of the bosses are mindless monsters. It's mostly about the human characters that you DON'T 
 fight than the monsters that you do. Once you kill the big old dragon, you'll definitely feel satisfied, 
 yet will yearn for just a little more. Though it's better to want more when you've beaten a game 
 than to feel sick of it; if a game makes you want to keep playing then it's done its job.
  
  Extras: There is so much to do on the side in this game, it is mind-numbing (in an amazing 
 way) . There's contests, holidays, romantic occasions, marriage, house expansions, crop enhancing, 
 forging, medicine designing, cooking, and much much more. Plot aside, these mini quests alone will 
 keep you happy for dozens of hours. Expect to sit down for a while with this one, cause it'll keep 
 you busy.
  
  Final Statement: This game is about as unorthodox as it gets. Beating up a giant ogre, then having 
 him pick your strawberries is quite odd. Harvest Moon on its own is a pretty obscure series, so 
 this game is probably even MORE obscure. Then again, obscure games are usually some of the best 
 ones out there. Cough cough Fire Emblem cough cough. A solid formula with decent graphics, controls, 
 and music make this game one of the best DS games for the RPG/Action-Adventure lover. Who knows; 
 maybe some day we'll see cows firing lazers from their utters. With games like Rune Factory, anything 
 can happen. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: KamikaziCat
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 10, 2008 2:58 pm PT
Review:  It is a lot like other harvest moon games, It does add fighting and it actually has a story, unlike 
 other harvest moon games. I find that it kept me more addicted to it more than other Harvest moon 
 games because of the fighting system. It adds something to do other than farm and fish. The fighting 
 is pretty hard in the beginning, you will only end up being able to kill one or two monster per 
 trip. Later on the fighting is a breeze, the bosses are simple and you don't have to have much 
 of a strategy, you just run up to it and slice till one of you dies. One of my favorite additions 
 is farming in the caves so you can grow crops that take 100 days to mature. Money comes easy in 
 this game, and there is only one house expansion. The house expansion is hard to get, but if i 
 could change the game i would have made more expansions at a little lower cost. There is no ending 
 so when you beat all of the caves you can still grow crops, but you will soon find yourself bored 
 after the ending. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Kmans20
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 8, 2008 1:23 pm PT
Review:  Rune Factory is the one game that might be considered one of the best in the Harvest Moon series. 
 I bought it expecting that a majority of the game to be just farming, but it wasn't. In fact one 
 of its big bonuses is FIGHTING. Now instead of just farming for hours and hours on end, you can 
 fight and tame creatures, which is a big bonus. The addition of creatures helps as well, since 
 you might not have to water or harvest the fields anymore, which is what made the other games so 
 boring. Also you can use the touch screen for more than inventory now too; you can use it to speed 
 up harvesting or other activities. But these activities, of course, have do be done on soil which 
 can be farmed on. I own Rune Factory and Harvest Moon DS and I have to say, Rune Factory is blowing 
 Harvest Moon out of the water. With new little additions, like recipe and magic books, and a completely 
 new feeling, I think it is clear that game is going to have a sequel, even if we welcome it or 
 kick it out the door. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Locked-On
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 3, 2008 9:22 pm PT
Review:  Well, I've eagerly waited for this game and after some playing, I've noticed the goods and bads. 
 This game, in my opinion, is the best in the Harvest moon series since you get to fight and do 
 most of the things you find in other rpg or adventure games such as getting new equipment or increasing 
 your skills. It's pretty enjoyable at first, with pretty good graphics for a DS game and best of 
 all, an anime-like opening. It still keeps the Harvest Moon idea, such as farming and marrying 
 someone, which is good for Harvest Moon fans and more. The storyline can be pretty good at times 
 and is worth going through and there's a couple of hidden 'sidequests' at some points in the game 
 which you can do as well. The battle system is like the battle system in games like the Sword of 
 Mana series, where if you press the A button once, you swing your sword, doing damage to enemies 
 in front of you. The value for the game is okay, I got mine for about 40 dollars, and it's pretty 
 much worth it. I just like to snap a screen shot by pressing L+Select and drawing on it when I 
 have some free time. The game hardly utilizes the touch screen, which isn't a problem for me but 
 for some reason, is a problem for others. Overall, this game is good if you like Harvest Moon games 
 and you like games like Sword of Mana. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GamespotEXE
Rating: 6.5
Date: Dec 26, 2007 9:45 pm PT
Review:  Foreword: The latest installation in the fabled Harvest Moon series, Rune Factory delivers enjoyable 
 gameplay with a new twist: combat. That's right -- you can explore dungeons, meet new friends, and 
 sell valuable crops in your quest to become an ultimate farmer. Of course, this is not all its 
 cracked up to be, so let's inspect the game from the good to the bad.
  
  The Good: As you traverse this new and strange but diverse world of Harvest Moon, you'll find it 
 to be quite interesting, meeting friends and enemies and exploring a plethora of convoluted dungeons. 
 Go ahead, grow crops and sell them to gain money through thick and thin. As an added bonus, deliver 
 crushing blows to monstrous beasts you meet along the way with your hoe to keep the peace in your 
 precious farm. 
  
  *Must-Read Comment*: Does Rune Factory sound pretty sweet right now? Don't stop reading and go 
 buy it, though, because after this next section, you may be disappointed.
  
  The Bad: Let's talk graphics first. If you've seen Final Fantasy XII: Revenant Wings for the DS, 
 you know that 2D and 3D can blend extremely well, giving minimal gameplay slowdown (unlike 3D) 
 and a feast for the eyes (unlike 2D) . Most unfortunately, that is not the case at all here. FFXII 
 blended these two aspects seamlessly, with a mixture in background and characters. The blend for 
 Rune Factory is not quite as consistent, making it at some points seeming as if pop-up figures 
 are walking across a story book. The new "survival" system can make things quite difficult as well. 
 As if keeping an eye on your farm and profit were not hectic enough, you also have both Hit Points 
 and Rune Points. Rune Points, used to complete various tasks, are depleted quickly throughout the 
 day and soon begin taking a toll on your Hit Points. Though these points can be refreshed with 
 a soothing bath and such activities, who will really take a break so frequently and do so? Then 
 there are extreme repercussions ranging from waking up with a headache at the doctor's office to 
 having to restart from the last time you saved. There isn't exactly a solid storyline, either, 
 though Raguna's volatile life can prove to be quite exciting.
  
  Verdict: Overall, Rune Factory is a fairly good game. It's rather hectic, agitating, and difficult, 
 but that can all quickly turn into immense excitement. Toughing it out and spending $35 or so on 
 this game could turn out to be quite a profitable investment -- I myself enjoy the carefree life 
 of the farm mixed with the heart-pounding exploration of dungeons and hunting of monsters. 
  
  "Is this a good buy?": In one word, yes. In more, it is an adventure, through good times and 
 bad, on a farm and through dungeons, that will last you for at the very minimum 30 hours. 
  
  In the End: After hours of hard work and strenous tasks, look back at your incredible feats 
 and state proudly, "That's my farm, my story, my fantasy Harvest Moon." 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ninn1000
Rating: 7.5
Date: Dec 25, 2007 6:04 pm PT
Review:  I am a fan of the "Mana" series (Sword of Mana, Dawn of Mana, Children of Mana, ect.) and Harvest 
 Moons and I found this game good but not perfect.
  
  The battle system resembles the Mana series with real time. There are a few different types of 
 weapons but they are all pretty similar. In the game a machine summons them up and you need to 
 destroy all the machines on every level of the cave to unlock the boss (which aren't too difficult) . 
 Each of the machines can summon monsters which will try and stop you from destroying the machine. 
 Each creature is different from the next unlike weapons. Some cast magic, some use bows, and others 
 just melee fight you. The fun part of having so many monsters is once you receive a certain glove 
 and have made a monster hut you can tame them. They can fight for you, water your crops, and do 
 other things to improve your farming. 
  
  A Harvest Moon can't be Harvest Moon with out the most important concept. Farming! From the beginning 
 you can farm and from then on out it will most likely be the most important concept for you. Just 
 like in any other Harvest Moon you have a hoe, axe, watering pail, and hammer. When you first start 
 playing you may find fishing the easiest way to make money and then mining but in the end farming 
 will end up being the most important part of your income. 
  
  The story isn't very good like in other RPG's but hey it's Harvest Moon. If you have never played 
 a Harvest Moon one thing you should know is that the second most important part of the game is 
 finding a wife. Now this can be easy or hard for you, you might want to keep all the good items 
 for you to sell or you might want to give away to the girl.
  
  Music: 6.5 (The music wasn't very engaging but it wasn't bad.)
  
  Sound Effects: 9 (The SE's 
 were very good. Mostly the weather though. The rain SE was probably my favorite sound in the game. 
 They all sound so real.)
  
  Story: 3 (A boy wakes up with amnesia in a place he has never been. How original.)
  
  Gameplay: 
 7 (There was nothing new added to the farming but the battle system wasn't bad. It just wasn't 
 too original besides the machines. But the thing is each second is a minute and if you can't run 
 imagine how fast time will go by. It is hard to decide between farming or going exploring for the 
 day.)
  
  Replayability: 6.5 (You can only have one wife and soon you realize, "Wow, I wish I could see what 
 that wife would've been like." That would encourage you to play again but it does take quite a 
 while to get that far along.
  
  Graphics: 6 (3D character sprites with a 2D background... NO!
  
  Overall: 7.25 ( [It wasn't 
 available...] Entertaining but I found HMDS much better, but that is me. If you need more info 
 on Harvest Moon DS paste  
 with out the things on the ends. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ChaoticPYRO
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 24, 2007 3:21 pm PT
Review:  I began this game thinking it would just be the same old Harvest Moon, only with a location swap. 
 I was right about that, but it also brings much more to the Harvest Moon table.
  
  You can of course do the same old thing as the original HM games and build up a super farm with 
 tons of crops and that could be the end of what you do. OR you can go cave spelunking and work 
 to have the biggest monster farm around. The fighting in this game is an awesome addition. It almost 
 seems like a whole new side game when your in the caves.
  
  The caves force you to use strategy and plan out what you'll do in the next days to prepare for 
 boss fights. You need to destroy all the monster creation machines throughout the level to get 
 to the boss. Doing so uses up rune points which can only be replenished by finding runes that sprout 
 along with ready to pick crops. 
  
  The monster designs are awesome and the fact that each can have its own job, i have my mage watering 
 and my orc harvesting, and then be able to bring them along to help you fight is a nice touch. 
 
  
  The game looks beautiful and the characters are all very original and look great as well. It makes 
 finding who you want to marry all the more fun with their lifelike appearances.
  
  Everyone should give this game a chance, even if you've hardly thought any of the other HM games 
 were ok. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: -The_Dark_fire-
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 22, 2007 2:03 am PT
Review:  This game blows me away. I'm a fan of harvest moon, when I first heard of the concept I was already 
 hooked. Friends of Mineral town for the gba WAS my favourite. WAS. Harvest moon DS was a huge let 
 down, adding nothing that the gba games already added. And the touch screen implements were... 
 lets not go into the touch screen imlements. Rune factory puts harvest moon DS to shame. It's amazing 
 how the addition of combat really sets the game appart from HMDS. While the combat system is nothing 
 special, it works beautifully, and you'll be happily slashing at monsters without hesitation. But 
 what really makes the harvest moon games is the farming, the characters, and the way the game makes 
 you feel part of the world, and thankfully thats all still there. The only real let downs is the 
 lack of touch screen inovation. After playing the phantom hourglass it made me realise how benefitial 
 using the touch screen to move, plant crops, fight monster ect. would be to the game. The second 
 let down (one you'll hear about alot) is that some of the 3D characters are just plain dreadfull. 
 When you get to name your character you get to see him front on. Lets just say that you'll be glad 
 that you'll never see him in that view ever again.
  Gripes aside this is by far the best game in the series, and the combat just makes it better and 
 gives people who have never liked the series a new view. Many of my firends who didn't like the 
 farming on it's own, find the combat a welcome addition. And most of all if you've liked any harvest 
 moon befor, you shall definately like rune factory.
  
  
  
  
  Visuals: 80 (bad 3d models really let is down but does little to affect the enjoyability
  
 
  Audio: 95 (while it's Legend of Zelda text based, there is talking added occaisonly including 
 some voice overs for your character (a first for Harvest moon) and the musics good to.
  
  Gameplay: 95: (Just plain fun and the combat really tops it off)
  
  Overal: 90 (Just buy the 
 god damn game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sjesseph
Rating: 8
Date: Dec 21, 2007 9:54 pm PT
Review:  I have bought so many bad DS games this year that I am glad that I get a chance to write a good 
 review for a change. This is like most of the other Harvest moon games where you have a farm and 
 grow your crops. In this game you get to get married as well and make friends with the towns people. 
 Now something you don't normally see in Harvest moon games is that you explore cave and fight bad 
 guys with your sword. Instead of rasing animals you tame the wild monsters in the cave and take 
 care of them on your farm. In trade they help you fight and help you water and harvest your crops 
 depending on the Monster. I really liked this game and it was a nice change but still had the Harvest 
 moon feel to the game. My kids like this game as well and I would say if you like Harvest Moon 
 games Buy it. Also if you have never been into Harvest Moon but like fighting games you may like 
 this one as well. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GhostDEFENDER
Rating: 8
Date: Dec 20, 2007 10:22 pm PT
Review:  It's a pretty good game, except that your kid doesn't grow up. The dungeon factor is interesting, 
 but it feels a litle rushed. The town is quite small, but hard to find your way around at first. 
 The pattern is, 3 levels, 3 houses/businesses on each side of the street on the first level (Toatle 
 of 6) , 2 on the 2nd (Toatle of 4) , and 1 on the 3rd (Toatal of 2) . Keep in mind that all of these 
 buildings are unmarked, for the most part. Furthermore, it's a pain raising the monsters. It took 
 the fun out of saving up and buying a cow, or something. It is fun having monsters, for farm work 
 and such, but do you really want to milk a mad, monsterous cow? Everything cost a lot, and on the 
 other side, it's too easy to make a LOT of money if you know what your doing. (planting 400 strawberies 
 in Carmite cave.) On the plus side, you have a whole new host of girls to pick, that havn't been 
 in the other games. In fact, you have a whole new town stocked with new people. It's refreshing, 
 and it has a different feel since you play as a 3D person in a 2d world. The dungeons are difficult, 
 yet small. Once you beat the game (all of the dungeons) , and get married, it's game over. They 
 took the fun out of it by keeping your child as a baby. You may wonder why I gave this game such 
 aa high score, for what I'm saying about it. It's because it still has most of the fun (but not 
 all) of a typical HM game, plus a little Zelda (but not THAT much) . It's a very innovative game. 
 I hope they make another one similar to it, but fix the bugs, and upgrade it. Overall, it's a good 
 buy, but you might want to wait a few months until it gets cheaper. Yes, I know this review is 
 all over the place, but I think I'm still asleep. I'd better sign out before I wake up and press 
 alt + F4. Don't try it. I mean it.
  
  Alter 
::::::

::::::
UserName: khoaNGx
Rating: 7.5
Date: Mar 5, 2009 9:51 pm PT
Review:  If you are a HM and RPG fan, you must get this game. In fact, play this before the sequel comes 
 out. This game is highly addictive. There are a whole new cast of interesting charcters, an a few 
 dungeons to explore.
  
  Farming in this game is also excellent, and it is made very easy and effecient. yoiu can now grow 
 and crop your favorite veggies and fruits again! You Can upgrade you tools and weapons, and level 
 up.
  There is a monster system, and each monster has it's unique porpure, whether it's to help you on 
 the farm, or adventure with you through the dangerous caves. There are also many spells to help 
 you out in caves. This game is hard to put down.
  
  The boss battles though, might be disappointing, as it requires no strategy, or real thinking. 
 
  
  Overall, this is a great game, and a must have for all Harvest Moon fans. It has some replay value, 
 as there's always no ways to go, and different girls to marry. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: scottyc407
Rating: 7.5
Date: Dec 5, 2007 8:34 pm PT
Review:  Rune Factory: A Fantasy Harvest Moon is a pretty good game in all aspects. I have never been a 
 fan of the Harvest Moon games, but I saw this one in the store and decided to try it out. I was 
 pleasantly surprised to find out that it combined the calm lifestyle with some degree of action. 
 The action is still entertaining even though the actual combat wasnt as good as I thought it would 
 be. Another positive thing that I found was that the characters in the game are very interactive. 
 There's plenty of things to do to keep busy, and plenty of ways to make money and support yourself. 
 The graphics could have been better, but the movement is easy and there's plenty of space to move 
 around. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: alchemy111
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 22, 2007 7:50 pm PT
Review:  It's very very good. The harvest moon series to me was getting very boring, it just was not doing 
 it. But this game redeems itself. This game introduces an actual story instead of all his life 
 he wanted to work on a farm. This introduces true story and still keeps the original harvest moon 
 at heart, but unlike them, you are not limited to farming just all the time, you actually get to 
 fight monsters and wonder caves which surprisingly take a big part in the game. Also, you don't 
 just wait for vegetables to grow day after day after day, you go out and fight monsters and forge 
 and mix potions you can do to it makes it much better . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lex_in_the_moon
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 9, 2007 11:13 am PT
Review:  If you played other harvest moons and loved the nice quiet environment. Chances are you'd rather 
 get harvest moon ds over Rune Factory. For all my gaming years harvest moon kind of bored me, been 
 here, done that over and over again. Now Rune Factory has a pleasant new addition for me, you get 
 to run around exploring caves and beating up bosses and monsters. Cool, eh?
  
  There are many different caves and you can buy swords and other weapons. Later you get the ability 
 to create or forge your own weapons from materials you can mine in caves. Once you make a monster 
 barn out of wood you get from chopping logs, you can tame a monster and you can take it anytime 
 with you to fight along your side. The monsters you tame can also either help out on the farm or 
 give you milk or eggs or something.
  
  There's this thing called your RP meter, every time you attack or cast a spell the meter goes down. 
 To maintain losing all your RP in a dungeon. You plant crops inside and you collect the RP that 
 comes from them, it works very well with battling. 
  
  Rune Factory is really fun and shouldn't be missed even if you don't like the other games but thought 
 about the realistic formula than Rune Factory will surprise you in many ways that you loved about 
 battling monsters.
  
  Gameplay: 8.5
  Well if farming displeases you completely, than avoid Rune Factory. If there is something you think 
 could come out of a farming game. Rune Factory is the thing to get. Taming monsters, battling monsters, 
 farmin, mining and fishing. You'll be doing this and more in Rune Factory
  
  Graphics: 8.0
  2D beautiful drawings as an environment are great in Rune Factory. However the 
 3D characters are kind of... cheesy.
  
  Sound/Music: 8.5
  Dungeon music is simply awesome in this game, you should listen to it with ear phones. The village 
 music is repetitive and sucks though.
  
  Controls: 8.0
  Controls work great, other than taking items. When you take out an item every button does something 
 else. Say you take out an herb and you want to eat it, press the wrong button to throw it away 
 and it's gone forever though.
  
  Overall: 8.5 A nice farming and fighting experience. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Cherry_Chain
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 23, 2007 4:04 pm PT
Review:  When i first got the DS a few months ago, I knew little about this console except for the fact 
 it had the newest generation of Pokemon on it. Diamond was the first game I bought and I thought 
 it was all I needed for this now, dual-screened hand held system.
  
  When I heard Harvest Moon had a sequel, I went to investigate this RPG styled HM immediately.
 
  
  Friend of Mineral Town, more Friends of Mineral town, and A wonderful life were all HM games I've 
 played and loved. Of course, as you can probably imagine, I can never play past the first five 
 years. The HM series always gets repetitive after a while.
  
  So when I heard Harvest Moon+Monsters and Dungeon+You and a sword I had to get it. I love RPGs, 
 from the FF series, to Namco's under-appreciated (But clearly better then the FFs &gt;.&gt;) Tales 
 series, to our lovable little Amataterasu from Okami.
  
  When I bought it, I didn't expect such a good game.
  
  Really, I thought that as HM is mainly 
 a farming game, the battle system won't be very good, enjoyable, the fighting component of the 
 game shall probably feel thrown in, and I'll spend more time on my farm and in town then anything 
 else.
  
  Oh boy, was I wrong.
  
  I was very soon completely addicted to the game, as every Harvest Moon has done to me in the past.
 
  
  The Graphics:
  
  The Graphics are great! The sort of ditched the old traditional HM look and turned everything into 
 a more Anime-like thing. The only thing I'm disappointed in is the character sprites. I think I 
 like the old 2-d sprites as opposed to the new 3-d ones. But the new ones aren't unbearable, except 
 that you can see through Ragono's head at times where a few pixels went invisible XD
  
  The Music:
  
  Like all the old HM games, the music was fantastic! Different area had different 
 soundtracks, different seasons on your farm, and festivals in Town. You can't get sick of it =]
 
  
  The Sounds:
  
  No this isn't the same as Music.
  
  Some sounds are missing (Right after level up, you can't hear your tools charging, ect.) but other 
 then that, everything runs smoothly.
  
  Game play:
  
  Oh boy, where do I even begin?
  
  The farming's still mostly the same as usual, with the added advantage of different seasoned 
 caves. So I'll skip that part.
  
  What I love the most is the battling.
  
  Ok, so its somewhat easier then I expected, but everything about the dungeons, monsters and the 
 blade fits together amazingly well. Exploring caves allow you access to mines, farming plots, goods 
 fishing spots, and some monsters drop items you need to cook, smith, decorate, or make medicine.
 
  
  What ends up happening is that your farm relies on the caves, and your ability to explore caves 
 rely on your farm. I thought the battling was going to fell like it was thrown in.
  
  It feels perfectly natural and a deep part of the game.
  
  The Story:
  
  I haven't finished 
 the game yet (Waiting for winter so i can beat misty Bloom Cave) but so far the Storyline is what 
 you expect from a HM: simple, short and sweet. Its cute, not too much going on, and easy to understand. 
 And pretty much open-ended. But of course, having not beaten the game yet, I really can't say much 
 ^^
  
  Overall:
  
  9.5
  
  The game flows great, easy to understand, play, and very addictive, but with the one flaw of all 
 HM games: It gets very repetitive in many places. That doesn't mean its not a good game though. 
 An impatient person like me sticking to these games for such a long time has to mean something 
 right? ^^
  
  Definitely worth the money =] 
::::::

::::::
UserName: smarties1717
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 20, 2007 5:45 pm PT
Review:  This is a very diiferent Harvest Moon game compared to all of the others. With fighting and magic 
 spells it is very different and therefore awesome! The caves are pretty challenging but ultimately 
 can be beaten easily. There is also the added affect of wifi. And you can capture and have monsters 
 on your farm which can help make a fight easier since they can help you out. I think the thought 
 of it being a Harvest Moon game but with the fighting and stuff is good also. I think that overall 
 a fun game you should dfinantly look into getting and is really awesome! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Robio_basic
Rating: 8
Date: Oct 9, 2007 7:55 am PT
Review:  As a long time Harvest Moon fan, I can honestly say I've been getting sick of this series. In the 
 past decade the series has evolved very little. New installments offer more crops to plant, more 
 places to explore, and more women to court, but that's about it. On the occasions when Natsume 
 has attempted to change up the series (Save the Homeland, Wonderful Life) , they tend to sacrifice 
 the things that players love about the series and put in additions that are average at best. Finally, 
 with Rune Factory, Natsume has come up with something new, that while not perfect, still provides 
 a lot of entertainment and sets the stage up for a great future.
  
  First and foremost this is still a pretty traditional Harvest Moon game. You still clear land the 
 same way, you still farm the same way, and you still win over the ladies in the same way. That's 
 fine though, because those are the things Harvest Moon fans know and love. What has been added 
 is a story-line that gives everything you do a lot more purpose, as well as dungeons, combat, monster 
 training, and the ability to make your own equipment.
  
  Not all of the new additions are perfect mind you. The story takes a back seat for much of the 
 game. And the combat is pretty basic, and doesn't require much more strategy than attack as quickly 
 as possible. There's certainly room for improvement in it.
  
  Overall though the new additions are done well. Forging your own weapons and accessories gets addicting 
 quickly. he dungeons are well laid out, and they serve more of a purpose than just a place to fight 
 monsters. You can mine for metals and jewels, grow specific types of crops, and capture monsters. 
 The last part tends to be very important as the right kind of monsters will help you on the farm 
 and are essential to running an efficient farm.
  
  The game is certainly worth pick up, and even if you just play through once, you'll be looking 
 at a solid 35 to 40 hours of gameplay. And like most Harvest Moon games, there's plenty of replay 
 value in this one. Fans of the series should pick it up, and the game is just different enough 
 from previous installments that RPG fans who didn't like the series may want to consider getting 
 this one. Best of all, the game lays the groundwork for a new path for Harvest Moon, and if Natsume 
 plays it right the sequel should be absolutley fantastic. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: amlounge
Rating: 7
Date: Sep 21, 2007 6:34 pm PT
Review:  Well... its Harvest Moon, except that you also slash through simple dungeons. That's pretty much 
 all that fans of the previous HM games need to know.
  
  As for gamers who generally don't know what HM, its pretty much raising crops and tending to livestock. 
 To be quite frank, for those who haven't experienced it yet, or are willing to try something different, 
 it's quite amusing. At least for the first few hours.
  
  And then the monotony sits in. Working the farm in Rune Factory involves doing the same tasks over 
 and over again everyday. Plant seeds, water crops, harvest crops, gather produce from livestock. 
 Sure its different but the novelty of a farming game wears off sooner or later. Granted, ALL games 
 do involve repeating one sort of task or another, the problem with Rune Factory is that the main 
 premise of the game is simply overshadowed by the fact that time spent within the dungeons are 
 time spent better than in the farm.
  
  Mining which involves going into the numerous caves of Rune Factory yields so much more cash than 
 farming that it's just broken. That is, if you needed cash anyway.
  
  The thing is, cash is needed to upgrade and furnish your house. However, once this goal is achieved, 
 and it IS achieved quite easily for those who actually choose to ignore the farm, money tends to 
 be useless.
  
  Sure there are other things to spend money on such as buying materials and ingredients to upgrade 
 your crafting skills like cooking and smithing. But most materials needed are simply found within 
 the dungeons of Rune Factory and not in the farm. What does this all mean? It means that its not 
 a farming game with dungeon crawling, but rather, a dungeon crawling game with farming elements 
 thrown in.
  
  With regard to the dungeon crawling, its alright for what it is. The game is relatively easy and 
 thankfully, your character controls quite well. When you're not dodging and slashing within the 
 caves, mundane farming tasks can be slightly automated, relieving some of the tediousness of the 
 act.
  
  The problem is, the game is slightly time based. This creates two sub-problems. First is that your 
 character's energy runs out a tad too quickly. Due to this, some players might find themselves 
 sitting around doing nothing, waiting for the bath house to open, in order to refill their energy. 
 This means leaving your DS on for about a few minutes just so the in game clock ticks by. Second, 
 the advancing in the game is slightly dependent on the seasonal calendar. That is, one of the dungeons 
 in the game, the Misty Bloom cave can only be accessed in winter (its mandatory to go through all 
 of them in order to complete the game) . This means that players who know or at least figured out 
 how to do things efficiently suddenly find themselves unable to progress as the they're stuck in 
 summer or fall, waiting for the days to pass. On the other hand, some players might progress too 
 slowly, and find themselves being able to only access Misty Bloom only after winter is nearly over 
 (not likely though) .
  
  This can be ratified by simply sleeping the days out, but to be quite frank, if a game requires 
 you to actually waste time just to progress, there's obviously some error in the design elements.
 
  
  Alternatively, you can spend the long days gathering materials needed to level your different skills 
 up. Which brings us to another slight complaint. Leveling your crafting skills (pharmacy, smithing, 
 decoration, cooking) involves standing in front of a counter or anvil, inputting recipes from materials 
 you collected. Collect, input, collect, input.... translating to doing the same thing over and 
 over again just to raise your skill.
  
  As for the dating aspect, wooing a lady pretty much just involves talking to them or giving presents. 
 That's it. There's not much to say and its really just an afterthought. If you wanted a dating 
 sim, you'd probably be better off playing Tokimeki Memorial instead. With regard to the bringing 
 livestock or familiars in combat, it's pretty much moot too, as you can get by without them.
  
  So why did I score this game a 7, putting it 2 points above average? Again, though a bit monotonous, 
 the game is still different, and that means its still worth checking out just to see what's the 
 fuss about. Give Rune Factory a rent if you feel like checking an action RPG with some farming 
 thrown in. Again, the control is quite good, and those who feel like hacking and slashing through 
 a dungeon certainly won't be dissapointed.
  
  Just 2 things to remember while playing. 1, farm a bit to experience it's novelty and then forget 
 it. 2 don't bother maximizing your days too much. If you find yourself out of energy, just head 
 to sleep. It'll make the game progress much faster. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GameGoddess32
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 18, 2007 9:17 am PT
Review:  I love Harvest Moon games, and when I saw the previews and images of this
  game I knew I had to get it. The Harvest Moon DS is an ok game (I was hoping
  for a game like the 
 gamecube version) , but I like the unique approach they
  had with this one. I'm almost through the first year of the game, and I think this
  is what the 
 first Harvest Moon game for the DS should have been like. If you
  like the Harvest Moon series I think you'll like this game. And maybe some
  people who don't like 
 Harvest Moon might like this one.... I don't know.
  But all in all it's a great game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jmanw
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 13, 2007 7:14 pm PT
Review:  First off, I did not know what to expect when I bought this game. How much fun could a farming 
 sim be? Well, it really is fun just because of the sheer amount of stuff to do, tied into addicting 
 gameplay, atmospheric music, and a pretty nice (but original) plot. You start the game as guy who 
 has forgotten his past (due to amnesia) and end up in a small farming town. You acquire a small 
 house and a field right away. Farming tools are acquired by other npc's and each tool serves a 
 unique purpose. The game's menus are easy to scroll through. As you talk to people daily friendship 
 and even love can develop. These are vital for the story to continue. There are many other stats 
 for attack, defense, level and experience, as well as many many more. There is a day and night 
 cycle but it's recommended to sleep at night or you'll be groggy the next morning. The game has 
 so much to do that you'll soon find the end of the day upon you. Farming (plowing, planting, watering, 
 collecting) , selling, fighting monsters, talking to people, exploring caves, capturing monsters, 
 taking care of monsters, mining, fishing, giving gifts, decorating and forging, and cooking are 
 some of the things that can be done in the game. The graphics are pretty good. The backgrounds 
 change with the seasons and the 2d stuff is nicely done. I was a little disappointed by the 3d 
 character sprites. They should have been more detailed. The music was good, but can get repetitive. 
 The sound effects get the job done but they're nothing special. Overall this game is very good. 
 I still have not beat it and I've played a good 30+ hours. It's not for everyone though because 
 the tasks can be tedious at times and the ugly sprites might turn others to the older harvest moons. 
 Either way, the addicting gameplay has added a new fan to the harvest moon series. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: realTrev
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 10, 2007 3:01 pm PT
Review:  Since the first harvest moon title dropped on to the SNES in '96 I have been in love with the franchise. 
 This series has always held a type of simple charm for me and I have to say that I was a bit skeptical 
 about Rune Factory when I heard that they were changing the tried and true formula to make a RPGesque 
 game based in a fantasy setting. However, having now finished the main portion of the game and 
 started on the second run through I must say that Rune Factory has quite successfully reinvented 
 the harvest moon franchise. In fact I'm anxious to see more games follow in this RPG style.
  
  But enough about that on to the review. The basic premise of the harvest moon games of past 
 is still here. Building up an old run down farm and living a successful life through marrying and 
 having a child. You accomplish this by growing crops and raising animals to make money, improving 
 your house through expansion and the purchase of furniture and items, and interacting with the 
 local citizens in town. The core elements are the same but it doesn't take long before you start 
 seeing that this ain't ya mama's Harvest Moon. 
  
  Of course obviously Rune Factory is set in a fantasy setting meaning some of the features of other 
 harvest moon games (which have traditionally been set in modern times) are not available. No electricity 
 means no TV for seeing the weather and no phone for ordering seeds/buying items from a shopping 
 channel. Also the other major change is that this game has RPG elements. Instead of the game being 
 entirely devoted to simply making a better life for yourself there is a decent skill and leveling 
 system that has been implemented. There is a storyline in the game that by comparison is much deeper 
 than previous titles. The story progresses as you defeat boss monsters from the many games and 
 as you move through the game your character becomes stronger. You can also devote some time to 
 the crafting system in the game that allows you to create weapons, food, accessories, etc that 
 can't be bought at the stores in town. Making these items raise your crafting skills allowing you 
 to make progressively more advanced items. In fact to level you tools up past a certain point you 
 have to raise your crafting skills and make them yourself. Items you make can then be traded with 
 others over Wi-Fi.
  
  These changes make the game feel fresh and new and not simply another harvest moon game. Even the 
 harvest moon mechanics that have been brought over from previous titles have a little twist to 
 them. Not only can you farm your own land but you can also farm in the caves which can actually 
 can work into the strategy of beating a cave. Crops produce runes which refill your Rune Points 
 which is essentially like your fatigue in other Harvest Moon games. You use your RP to cast spells 
 perform work related tasks and if you run out of RP you start losing health when you perform these 
 tasks. Runes are the easiest way of recharging you RP. Most of the spouse choices require you to 
 perform special tasks in order to marry them. These tasks are usually related to the character's 
 back story and give the girls a little bit character development. With the animal system you actually 
 befriend/capture the monsters in the caves. Some monsters are used for producing the standard milk, eggs, 
 and wool while others can water/harvest crops. If you so desire you can even team up with one of 
 your monsters and delve into the caves together. In this case if your monster is critically injured 
 it doesn't die but simply returns to your barn.
  
  However even with the good things that this game brings to the table it is not without its faults. 
 It is a very easy game to play, perhaps too easy. You can make money in a flash and once you have 
 bought the house upgrade, items for the house, and all the barns the money you have seems pretty 
 useless. Buying all this stuff doesn't take long and you might find yourself wishing that you had 
 more building upgrades to use all that excess wood and money on. Days are longer than in other 
 harvest moon games which can be good and bad. It gives you plenty of time to explore caves, talk 
 to people, and farm but at some points in the game you might find yourself putting your DS wait 
 for the hot spring to open for example or going to bed extremely early with nothing to do with 
 the extra time. The dialogue of the characters can get old and while the small amount of voice 
 acting is by majority good it can get dry at times. The game has quite a few minor glitches, for 
 example when you marry Melody the hot spring becomes useless ( I married Melody first and was very 
 disappointed) .
  
  Despite these negatives though I still find myself spending endless hours on it. The incredibly 
 fresh new components combined with the tradition game play of the harvest moon make this an extremely 
 addictive addition to your DS library. The faults while very noticeable at times are never enough 
 for me to put down the game. All in all Rune Factory is a game that, at least for this fan, brought 
 new, much needed life to the genre. It is definitely a good start in a new direction for harvest 
 moon and I sincerely hope to see many more harvest moon games follow in this same fashion so long 
 as the developers continue to make improvements. This is a definite pick up for old harvest moon 
 fans and those new to the series. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: zeroxfinal
Rating: 10
Date: Sep 7, 2007 7:21 pm PT
Review:  i enjoy it cause it isn't like a game where u can beat in one day. It takes time to beat this game 
 and u can do alot of stuff after u beat the game too. It is great for the older kids because younger 
 kids might not understand the point of this game. The plot isn't that complex and the story line 
 was pretty good. I don't think harvest moon DS 2 isn't going to top the Harvestmoon. I think this 
 game will stay on gamestop's top 5 best seller list for a while because i can usually beat a game 
 in a day, but this 1 it took me a while. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: luk3th
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 6, 2007 5:33 pm PT
Review:  Ok, i recently bought this game because a RL friend suggested it, and i am GLAD i got it. When 
 can you got wrong with a japenese anime RPG? Never is quite simply the answer. This game starts 
 out with you as a guy with amnesia who collapses in front of some ladies front doorstep, she revives 
 you and gives you a farm... that's the beggining. Farm, and as a new harvest moon addition, FIGHT 
 you're way through dungeons. this game is just great. The only cons to this game are the more 2D 
 than 3D graphics and the fact that every time you talk to someone they say hello in an odd voice... 
 still worth buying. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Branzolis
Rating: 9.5
Date: Sep 5, 2007 2:23 pm PT
Review:  If your stuck with the fact that you dont know if you want this game, im telling you that it is 
 worth it..... i am going to tell you what i went through to get this game................ I was 
 just you know walking around toysrus's ds game section..... just sorta browsing but i kinda went 
 there for club house games ds, it wasnt there but you know how dangerous people can do when they 
 have enough money for a game there with them... ill just say this in a nutshell i wasnt leaving 
 with out a game.... i was looking around and i saw diddy kong racing ds and i had enough for it 
 so guess what!!!! I got it even though i knew the game spot rating for it wasnt good at all!!! 
 I saw a game that i always was sorta lookin into it was called Rune Factory: A Fantast Harvest 
 Moon i was a few bucks short so i went with diddy kong racing. That night i was on the ds browser 
 and looked up rune factory it had 8/10, 9/10 and even some 10/10's i felt so sick that i got diddy 
 kong racing. I attempted to take it back like the next day, it was open so they wouldnt take it 
 back. I went straight to eb games and they said they would give me 12 dollars for it even the i 
 spent 40 dollars on it, i was so angry i wanted to sell that game but of course im not that stuped 
 so i kept it. I live near a pawn shop so i went there and sold about 10 - 15 games and after that 
 i sill had to borrow 10 dollars and then i was all happy that i had enough, and went to a couple 
 of stores and they were all sold out of it. After that i had to go to a whole new city and i am 
 happy to announce that i found it! After that my real life quest was over and my Rune Factory quest 
 had just begun. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mmntw27
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 16, 2007 6:47 am PT
Review:  I was one of the unfortunate ones who went to a store and was told that the game was sold out because 
 of preorders. After going to a Wal-Mart and a GameStop, I was throughly ticked. So I went to a 
 Toys R' Us, and lo and behold, they had 3 copies left. Yoink!
  
  First Impression:
  The beggining movie was really neat. It was like I was playing Final Fantasy again, although this 
 was all anime and not 3D. As I started the game, I noticed that this was going to be quite a different 
 trip from the other Harvest Moons. First of all, the other Harvest Moons don't really have a story. 
 Your character in those games was just plopped on the farm, told to raise it, and get married to 
 some random chick. This Harvest Moon, however, broke the tradition. Your character is near dead 
 at the beggining, having no memory of who he is whatsoever. He collapses in front of a girl's house 
 named Mist, and she gives you some food (First after giving you some farming tools... God, she's 
 so considerate of your condition) and, in return, you have to take care of a farm that she owns. 
 But that's just the tip of the iceburg. Anyways, I haven't beaten it yet, so I have no clue how 
 it ends, but oh boy there is so much to do in this game that I've found myself playing it until 
 about 3-4 in the morning just playing it non-stop
  
  Lasting Impression:
  Well, I'm still playing this to date (after having to wait a week after its realeased to get it) , 
 and I haven't put it down yet. There is so much you can do, from participating in events to (gasp) 
 fighting monsters with an array of swords, spears, and magical spells. Yup, monster fighting is 
 very important in this one, and is something new to the Harvest Moon series. There isn't any livestock 
 to raise in it. Instead, you have to capture said monsters and keep them in Monster Huts. No more 
 seperate homes for the Cows and Chickens. Now you can have them all in the same hut. Some animals 
 will fight with you if you want them to, and others will give you the usual milk, wool, and eggs. 
 This Harvest Moon also has the biggest line up of eligible women you can marry, which is 10, for 
 your information. It is quite easy to get them to like you more in this own. Let's take Mist, for 
 instance. Plow your fields, defeat cave bosses, and talking to her will make her friendship and 
 love count go up for you. Also, no more stalking into people's houses to gind out if the girls 
 love you by taking a peek into their diaries. Now you can check it out yourself in your Menu.
 
  
  I guess I should talk about the controls. You never really need the stylus. All the buttons are 
 mapped out onto your DS's buttons, so the only real reason for the stylus is for when you are drawing 
 in you screenshots. Oh, yeah. I almost forgot. You can take a screenshot of anything your doing 
 at the moment by bress L + Select at almost any point, then you can go to your house and edit it. 
 It's quite fun to mess with the pictures, actually. This Harvest Moon also has a level up feature 
 for almost everything you do. If you use your hoe and watering can alot, your farming skill will 
 increase, and it will take less energy to use the how or water your crops. Same goes for fishing, 
 swordsmanship, and even making dinner can make your skill go up. Ah, yes, (god this is the longest 
 review I ever did, lol) you have energy too. Your HP and Rp (Rune Points) are displayed on the 
 screen. RP let's you use your tools, your magic, and swinging your sword around makes your RP go 
 down. Hp is your health points, obviously. If you use up all your Rune Points, you'll be relying 
 on your HP to use tools and fight monsters. While it's not that bad if you use up all your points 
 while working on the fields, it is especially bad if you lose all your HP and RP in a monster cave, 
 because it's automatic game over for you if do. You can get your RP and HP back up by going to 
 bed, taking baths, and drinking certain potions, along with a few other ways (I won't spoil anything 
 :) )
  
  Parting Words:
  
  I can't make this review any longer or you'll probably hate me in the end. I can't write in a review 
 everything you can do in this game. It is wonderful to play and is arguably the greatest harvest 
 Moon to date. If your a Harvest Moon fan, pick it up... now. If your not, this game wouldn't be 
 a bad choice to pick up anyways. You won't be dissapointed.
  
  Gameplay: 9.5/10
  Awsome gameplay. Like what I would expect from Harvest Moon, but alot more added.
  
  Sound: 
 8.5/10
  The sounds are cool, and there is some talking, along with a stellar soundtrack to boot.
  
 
  Controls: 8.5/10
  Not bad, but I would've liked more use of the stylus.
  
  Replayability: 9.0/10
  Uhh... I haven't even gotten married, and I won't for another few weeks, 
 I am sure. It's fun to play through again.
  
  Fun Factor: 9.5/10
  Fun as heck. There's so much to do, you'll probably have to use both your save files.
  
  Overall: 
 9.0/10
  Harvest Moon fans, rejoice. The awsome Fantasy Harvest Moon is out, and it's better than expected 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Nightingale27
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 2, 2007 3:01 pm PT
Review:  Yeah... it's like harvest moon, but better. It with take a while to get the good monsters/house 
 upgrades, but otherwise the time it takes to play this game runs pretty smoothly. Good, but not 
 perfect battle system, and though the game emphasizes growing stuff in caves, you don't have to 
 do that if you can cook and restore Rune points, and then heal with magic.
  The game is good
  The biggest downside that I felt was that it takes a while to get into (fully) , 
 and there is barely any in game guide. If you get the game, read the hints/cheats section of Gamespot, 
 because some stuff that is normally dumped at your feet in other harvest moon games is a little 
 harder to get. ( I'm talking about tools, the things that you need.)
  Questions? Send me a message and I'll try to help! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: _AbBaNdOn
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 31, 2007 9:05 am PT
Review:  THE GOOD
  -Farming in caves
  -Mining, fishing, making food, making weapons, making accessories
  -leveling up and getting stronger
 
  -skills improving -fighting monsters
  -capturing monsters
  -getting a chick and making her pregnant (hmmmm....)
  
  THE MILDLY ANNOYING
  -watering grass, 
 cutting grass, grass not regrowing
  -having to hold a button to run and no way to change it
  -status ailments
  -some messed up 
 crop prices
  
  THE BAD
  -Not being able to use the field by your home for FARMING because of damn hurricanes.
  
  SUGGESTIONS 
 FOR IMPROVEMENT
  -bigger variety of crops
  -ability to change run to default
  -return grass mechanics to the way they were
  -3d crops always and forever
  -Remove huricanes!!! 
 Grrrr. Rune Factory is awesome and a must own game. There is so much to do and so little time to 
 do it all. How will you spend your time playing?? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Simpsons2102
Rating: 10
Date: Aug 30, 2007 12:54 pm PT
Review:  Rune factory stays true to the old harvest moon games but with an all new fighting system. This 
 game has beautiful graphics, an extremely fun gameplay, and an all new multiplayer mode which lets 
 you talk to your friends, send pictures, or just trade items! You can do this over wifi or wireless 
 mode. Rune factory is very addicting and will give many, many hours of fun! This is definiely the 
 best harvest moon game to date! Hopefully, they will make a rune factory 2. This game is a must 
 have for harvest moon fans. Altogether, this game deserves a 10, its perfect... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MrToastman
Rating: 8
Date: Oct 27, 2007 4:17 am PT
Review:  Rune Factory doesn't stoop to being a modest GBA-port of a Harvest Moon game. This is a meaty, 
 challenging RPG that should be labeled as a necessity for those who consider themselves a fan of 
 the time-consuming game type. Any fan of previous Harvest Moon games should be delighted with the 
 farming system but there's also a whole lot more to this game. With the right tools you can take 
 up the path of monster tamer or adventurer as well! Another point to mention is the level of difficulty. 
 This game can be simple if you take your jobs in small portions. If you prefer to explore the lowest 
 levels of a cave or to create expansive farmland you're required to manage your Rune Points and 
 Health Points carefully. The range of depth this game can cover is what keeps it from being impossible. 
 Take it in small bites at first to acquire some comfort with each play style, but be prepared for 
 an amazing four-course meal to sate your NintendoDS RPG appetite!
  
  Edit: I will leave up my original review so that any readers can distinguish between my initial 
 opinion and how I regard the game after having beaten it. First of all, I have changed my rating 
 of the game from a 10.0 down to an 8.0. The concept of monster taming in Rune Factory is not what 
 I had first thought. Aside from derailing your high profit margins, managing your pets isn't all 
 that amusing. Somewhat of a perfectionist at times, I restarted the game more than once. My last 
 attempt is what brought me through to the end. It was a time trial of sorts. I managed to get through 
 the first four caves and build my extended house within the first season. That meant waiting through 
 two more seasons just to get into the fifth cave. If not for the amenities offered after building 
 the large house, I would have returned this game at that point. The crafting ability is not just 
 useful, it's required. I enjoyed upgrading my items, and finding some of the items that were required 
 to do so was quite a challenge at points. I am not a fan of the recipe list function over a filter 
 option. I managed to beat the other four caves within the space of the first Winter season, confronting 
 the Sech's (Sex?) Army on New Year's Day. I've been amused by this game, and will certainly continue 
 to recommend it, though I can not claim with any certainty that this game has reached perfection. 
 For those with the concern: You are allowed to save and continue playing after the end credits. 
 Game on! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: PharaohsVizier
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 24, 2007 7:54 pm PT
Review:  In light of the complete failure of Harvest Moon DS comes another release for the Nintendo DS titled 
 Rune Factory - A Fantasy Harvest Moon . It certainly seemed like a dumb idea, tacking on a battle 
 system to the already successful formula that all the Harvest Moon games have been perfecting. 
 But how wrong that assumption was.
  
  Rune Factory is a Harvest Moon game at heart, but with some major changes. The two most significant 
 changes are:
  
  1. A completely new battle system has been implemented. This system allows your character to fight 
 monsters in caves, gaining EXP, unlocking new weapons, new caves, new monsters. To understand this 
 change, you must break down each individual portion. The caves in the game are unique to this game, 
 basically they are equivalent to both your farm land and mine from previous Harvest Moon games. 
 Riddled with monsters, you must fight past them to get to your precious resources, which is absolutely 
 necessary for the game. Although you have a perfectly safe farmland already nearby your house without 
 the need of fighting monsters, farming in caves have several advantages. The most notable one being 
 that caves have a constant temperature, which allows users to farm a single crop for the entire 
 year regardless of the season. The second advantage is that you get a lot more land to farm on 
 if you expand to the caves. Monsters inside these caves are also very crucial. You can obviously 
 fight these monsters and gain experience and gain access to bigger and newer caves. But a core 
 part of Harvest Moon has always been taking care of animals, which has been replaced in Rune Factory 
 to monsters. You can tame monsters inside caves, once tamed they can act as workers, doing simple 
 jobs like harvesting, watering, etc, but they can also act as livestock, such as sheeps , cows 
 , horses , where you can get milk, ride on monsters, etc to make more money and make your life 
 easier.
  
  2. The second change in Rune Factory is the new artwork and design. No longer is the game plagued 
 with the cartoon like graphics featuring cute and fat animals, it seems that they took a somewhat 
 more realistic design. Japanese anime seemed to be the theme of the characters, however the polygons 
 themselves, and the background and the rendering of the atmosphere, it seems as though the core 
 of the game is a whole lot more realistic. It makes this game very different from the other Harvest 
 Moon games, and has altogether a different feel.
  
  Basically the game feels just right. For example, the controls seem to be hit dead on, they ditched 
 the stylus and went all out with the D-Pad. Your character is moved by the D-Pad, while most of 
 the actions can be done with ABXY or a combination of ABXY and L and R. After the first day inside 
 the game, most of the controls become second to nature.
  
  The core of the game is still very similar to Harvest Moon, there are still shops, the local church, 
 the girls whom you will marry, etc. Basically you still need to farm, make money, get gifts and 
 befriend everyone in the town and get married. Sounds fairly generic, but it does work amazingly 
 well, there is a reason why Harvest Moon has had so many installments in their series.
  
  Overall, the game is great, it is exactly the change needed to bring Harvest Moon back to life, 
 and put a fresh spin on things. It seemed like an ambitious change, but it was well worth it because 
 they have a great game on their hands. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ShanghaiHeaven
Rating: 6.5
Date: Aug 23, 2007 5:13 pm PT
Review:  Rune Factory: A Fantasy Harvest Moon is a spin-off for the DS that lives up to it's prior releases. 
 It contains many beautiful women each, ironically, of marrying age. And you, the newly come to 
 town bachelor and gentleman-farmer. You awake at the doorstep of one of these young brides to be, 
 and she worries over your health and unfortunate amnesiac condition. Her kindness peaks when she 
 offers you the title of Master of her over run farm, a generous but double-edged offer, for the 
 farm will take most of the remaining year and some after to efficiently clean. From then on, the 
 care of this farm is your foremost duty, at least, until you get the pass to your first cave. The 
 pitying townspeople will donate items to aid you as you continue on your way including: axes, hammers, 
 and fishing rods for your pleasure and disposal, which can later be upgraded. Farming is made essential 
 to the game whether you'd rather mine or fish or not, since the mayor will only grant you passes 
 to the landscapes many caves if you have plowed x-amount of your farm. These caves become the link 
 to the main plot line of the game. Once granted your first pass, the game play truly begins.
  
  The Battle System: While the Rune Factory: A Fantasy Harvest Moon has the new and well raved 
 about battle system, it is a lack luster smash and run type of game play. Even in boss battles 
 you get two strategies , hit and run, or if you can take it, smash and bash. They say they incorporate 
 magic? But by the time you get to the boss battles your certain to be out of rune points (the magic 
 points - MP - equivalent) unless you truly have the patience to rerun the cave everyday to water 
 the crops your planted in the lower floors of the dungeon until their prime, to create your acclaimed 
 rune factories , which consists of the power of your planting. The Graphics: The beautiful backgrounds 
 and animation live up to expectations... but the CG loses where the anime gains. Many of the miniature 
 CG people look like apes when you don't talk to them up close. This quite takes away from the beauty 
 of your chosen wife. But as much as there is lost in the CG, the animation is beautiful and makes 
 up for what the pixelated screen shots cannot provide.
  
  Monster- Farming System: You can finally get cheap labor forces, monsters, to water, harvest, and 
 condition your crops! But then... what is there left to do in Harvest Moon...? You still must personally 
 tend to your crops planted in caves, but after that you'll find the townspeople have lacking conversational 
 skills as it seems. Most are only programmed for 2 or maybe 3 different lines which they will repeat 
 almost everyday without fail. You'll find that you bed early, when you are out of caves for exploring.
 
  
  And that covers the points of the game which most people are looking out for the most. This game 
 nearly deserved a seven, but after so much anticipation one is left to a monotonous world that 
 cannot be cured. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DSgamer64
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 22, 2007 8:56 pm PT
Review:  For fans looking for a Harvest Moon experience like past games from the Gamecube and PS2, you will 
 be suprised to find that the franchise has taken a rather interesting new turn in one of the longest 
 running console and handheld based life sim franchises.
  
  Pros: Lengthy gameplay allows for countless hours to be spent exploring and farming, however the 
 game goes much further with character interaction. The introduction of the 'weather cave' system 
 allows you to grow multiple season items even during the winter. RPG elements like weapons, armour 
 and stat and skill increases.
  
  Cons: Sometimes this game can be annoying, especially when farming and the season switches over 
 half way through a crops growth. You might find at times that the gameplay is repetitive.
  
  Rune Factory: A Fantasy Harvest Moon takes place in a small village comprised of about 35 other 
 characters whom you must interact with, especially the girls who you talk to and build a relationship 
 status meter, much like past Harvest Moon games. You are a lost young man who wound up in a strange 
 village, but unfortunately you have lost your memory. A local girl named Mist takes you in and 
 agrees to let you use her farm. Unlike in past games, you are capable of capturing monsters who 
 can help you on your farm, however you have to spend time gathering wood and you need money in 
 order to build housing for your monsters as well as providing food for them. In order to collect 
 monsters you must first gain access to caves, where you can battle them as well as store crops 
 for each season, as each individual cave is seasonal. There is a boss lurking at the end of each 
 cave though and you must be strong enough to survive the cave, you also need to destroy all the 
 enemy spawning machines in order to get at the boss in the first place.
  
  Of course as you progress and interact with the girls in the village, your relationship status 
 rating goes up like in most dating sim games, at the end you have to pick the girl you want to 
 marry. But you need a proper house with the right furnishings and stuff as well, which again you 
 need lots of money and wood in order to build. But at the end of it all, Rune Factory: A Fantasy 
 Harvest Moon is a fantastic game that Natsume has done really well and is the best offering in 
 the series in many years, mixing fun dungeon crawling, RPG and life sim elements all into one game, 
 packed with nice pre rendered scenery and 3D character design. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hintaki
Rating: 9.5
Date: Aug 22, 2007 6:30 pm PT
Review:  You happen to lost your memories and can't remember, one girl found you. Then u happen to become 
 a farmer and stayed in this wounderful town. Now here's the reveiw of my experience of this game 
 Well I didn't know it came out, finally decide to get the game. I been playing harvest moon ever 
 since I was little and the games have really change over the years that I been playing the Harvest 
 Moon games. In this it's alot different and many things change, Instead of raising cows, chicken 
 and sheeps etc... you can able to raise monsters and able to train them. Making friends is alot 
 easier and getting money is also alot easier too. Now they also changed the days in the calander 
 as instead of having sunday and saturday now it's only one day weekend. Now the townspeople allow 
 u too go into their even though the friendship is around 4. The graphics and the music are really 
 good in the DS. Alot bettter and it been upgraded as well. Buying things are much cheaper as well 
 not too expensive. But getting the wood can be difficult and now you also need a pass too go into 
 the caves and now u don't need to buy a blue feather to purpose to one of the ladies. Now u can 
 able to find a stone then purpose to whoever u want to get marry. I also like that now u can able 
 to have an health bar and engery bar to keep u in track. New people which I like instead having 
 the same character as before. I'm glad this game came out and this is a fun addicting game to get. 
 This is a must have Harvest moon game. Really enjoyable suitable for all ages boys and girls. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ahappyfool
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 21, 2007 11:09 am PT
Review:  so, first of all..
  i never played any of the previous harvest games. it just didn't seem appealing.
  but i love 
 RPGs like golden sun and final fantasy. so i gave this game a shot.
  
  i am now in the third cave; and have more crops planted than i almost have time in the day to take 
 care of (you can plants crops IN the caves all year round) ; have two full monster huts (you capture 
 monster's and they help you battle and farm the land.. even make eggs, wool and honey) and some 
 lovely kick ass weapons and treasures (captured like FF3 and/or bought in town) ; and i'm close 
 to snagging the heart of the girl i'm chasing (you gain friendship and love points with everyone, 
 and giving gifts daily or during festivals helps alot) . you have to watch your health closely, 
 cuz *everything* you do costs health or rune energy. the leveling up is just like a good RPG, with 
 an easy to access menus.
  
  i have (as well as my GF communicating wirelessly with messages only) 'farmed' alot of time of 
 this games so far.
  
  it's A D D I C T I V E!
  
  so, if you want a game that you can play for minutes or hours, pick up a copy somehow. it's a wonderful 
 surprise and the value is still paying off and i'm nowhere close to finishing this game.
  
  whew! (now back to playing the game...) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: zcds
Rating: 8.5
Date: Aug 20, 2007 4:59 pm PT
Review:  Rune factory sucks you in right away with an amazing FMV opening. It's all uphill from there. The 
 story is your a guy with no identity so a strange woman takes you in and lets you live on her farm 
 so long as you do work. Of cores it's not all good in the little town there are monsters that lurk 
 in the caves. So the mayor gives you passes to go in the caves and kick monster ass. But it's not 
 all monster fighting you can do all that you loved to do in the past HM games grow crops, raise 
 animals, fish, make friends, find a wife and more. The farm part is the same only you can capture 
 monsters and make them work on your farm you can also make them fight with you. The fighting is 
 solid and the weapons you can get along with the magic you learn make things better. It's just 
 to bad there are only a few caves. The only major complaint is your HP can be unforgiving. When 
 you run out of rune points you lose HP while using tools thats just annoying in caves. Also almost 
 the whole town shuts down every Sunday in some certain situations you could be in trouble. The 
 best part of this game is that it's not really slow paced like HM DS you can have a successful 
 farm running in no time. Rune Factory beautifully blends action and farming into one game. It's 
 like an rpg that you can live. The best portable HM ever. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lamadoo
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 20, 2007 2:16 am PT
Review:  Graphics are among the best in the ds, beautifully handrawn backgrounds and potraits. Breath taking 
 anime intro. Character model however are pretty dam ugly.
  
  Sound is reasonably good, matches the mood and creates the atmosphere of the game. Does a great 
 job in bringing you back to an imaginary era of the dark ages.
  
  Gameplay is very addictive, i couldn't put the ds down for 6 hrs when i first played it. Uses two 
 cores for its gameplay; rpg elements like secret of mana and harvest moon farming. A suprisingly 
 fluid mix.
  
  Characters are colourful and each have their own unique personality. Get to know them, befriend 
 them and even marry one of the girls. The plot could be more indepth.
  
  Game is unrivalled in lastability. Graphics: 9.5
  Sound: 8.1
  Gameplay: 9.1
  Value: 9.9
 
  Story and Character plot: 8.5 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Twit92
Rating: 9.5
Date: Aug 19, 2007 8:09 pm PT
Review:  Wow... This game is my favorite Harvest Moon, I thought it was a really good idea on their part to 
 mix one of my favorite series with my favorite genre.
  
  This game is a Harvest Moon game all the way, you have the possible wives, a local mansion, a house 
 expansion, crops, and the Harvest Festival in Fall. What this game was missing in Harvest Moon was 
 made up for in RPG. Instead of befriending Harvest Sprites to do your work you befriend monsters 
 to do your work, or you destroy them with your Hoe, whichever.
  Magic was cool and the possible marriage choices were very expansive (I ended up marrying Melody) 
 I find it odd there are only 6 days but I'm not complaining at all about this.
  
  The end 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Ennekube
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 19, 2007 6:05 pm PT
Review:  Finally, a Harvest Moon that doesn't feel like a tired rehash of the previous versions! Though 
 the basic gameplay concept remains the same (farming) , Natsume's changed the characters and added 
 a fantasy-RPG element (skill points, fighting, magic, etc) and storyline that makes for a much 
 fuller (and addictive) gameplay experience.
  
  You enter the game as Ragna, a young man suffering from amnesia. He's rescued by a ditzy young 
 lady named Mist, who kindly sets him up on a farm and provides him with the equipment he needs 
 to get started. You start with the bare essentials (hoe, watering can, and a pack of radish seeds) 
 but quickly pick up tools as you befriend more townspeople and the storyline progresses. Newcomers 
 to the game might find certain aspects confusing, as instructions are kept to a bare minimum, but 
 Harvest Moon regulars will pick it right up -- the core farming concepts remain the same.
  
  One brand-new quirk to the game (in addition to the fighting and magic ) is that instead of 
 buying cows, sheep, and chickens, you must defeat and tame monsters who will then perform various 
 functions on your farm. Depending on the monster, they'll either do nothing, aid you in fighting, 
 aid you in your chores, or provide you with honey, milk, wool, eggs, etc. So far, I find myself 
 very much enjoying this game. I've tried almost all iterations of the game since it first came 
 out on the N64 (this includes the PS, PS2, Gamecube, and GBA versions) and so far, this is by far 
 the most satisfying since the N64 version. Give it a try and see if you agree... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bladesmen21
Rating: 10
Date: Aug 18, 2007 11:43 pm PT
Review:  Now this is my first review so wish me luck.
  
  The game starts with a boy a girl a lots of innovation.
  
  Compared to previous HM games heres 
 what this game beats them at.
  
  1. 10 girls to marry all of them with distinct looks and personalities.
  
  2. Combat though 
 new to the franchise is implemented quite well within the game.
  
  3. 3D characters on a handheld though the sprites dont look as sharp as i would like but they look 
 nice nonetheless.
  
  4. Skills while not adding that much help freshen the series a bit
  
  Heres what the game is lacking compared to the other HM games
  
  1. Less tutorial on how 
 to get and do certaint things.
  
  2. Less free roam overall.
  
  3. Voice acting isnt much and it sometimes doesnt even work.
  
  4. The controlls (for me) took 
 a little bit of time to get used to
  
  This is my first review so any feedback would be nice (positive only!) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: utakpulvoron
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 18, 2007 5:30 pm PT
Review:  Rune Factory's mix of Harvest Moon elements and RPG elements make this game so much more than just 
 another Harvest Moon game. When I saw screenshots of this game I was awed, but not as much as when 
 I got to see it for myself! The graphics are great! Overall gameplay is just as good! There is 
 so much to do in this game. There is a wide selection of women to woo! All of which have their 
 own charm, making it difficult deciding who to actually go for! The crops system has had a few 
 tweaks, one of which involves the middle crop now easily within reach. Gathering fodder is so much 
 more difficult. Unlike other Harvest Moon games where fodder just keeps growing, this one you even 
 have to water it! Fishing in this game is much easier than previous Harvest Moons though. It's 
 a good change but i found it a bit too easy.
  
  Now for the things introduced in this game which other Harvest Moon's did not have. The rune system 
 is something i don't quite fancy. Each use of a tool or weapon costs Rune Points or better known 
 as RP. Once Your RP is depleted your HP then starts to deplete. To recover RP you must have a patch 
 of 9 fully grown crops. Everyday it will have a white floating ball, collect it and your RP gets 
 partially filled. This system makes it a little bit tougher. Although as you level up your HP increases, 
 but RP remains the same. This makes the game a little bit more difficult. The monster capturing 
 part is a nice feature. You can actually make the monsters fight with you, gather crops, or water 
 the fields! This is a really good feature! Also there are certain monsters who you can milk, collect 
 eggs from, and collect wool from. They have removed the farm animals in change of this. Which is 
 just as good!
  
  Overall a great game! It removed a lot of the undesirable of Harvest Moon and added a few new mechanics, 
 which unfortunately have their own undesirables. But the good seems to overshadow the bad. Rune 
 Factory is one of the best things that ever happened to Harvest Moon! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: PokeGirlRen
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 18, 2007 8:27 am PT
Review:  This game to simply put it, revolutionizes everything we know and love about the Harvest Moon world. 
 You; ll notice it's different as soon as you begin playing, with a beautiful opening animation, 
 and that's just before you get to the title screen! Rune Factory balances the basic idea of the 
 Harvest Moon franchise, and it's new plot-and-battle twist, sometimes you don't know which of the 
 two genres it is! The game hold itself together itself very well, because for your farm to prosper, 
 you can't just battle, or just farm! You need to do both to a certain extent to succeed in the 
 game! Players now can also grow crops in cave and dungeons, forge their own weapons, and tame monsters 
 to bring into battle, help on the farm, or become your livestock! The game is easy to get the hang 
 of once you finally get a hold of the concept of Rune Factories which is the idea of growing crops 
 and using Runes produced by the crops to gain back you Rune points (Basically stamina in previous 
 games) and able you to do more work. You can ship anything, and the game allows you to view shipping 
 prices of the item wherever you are, which is a very nice feature. The 3D graphics are used well, 
 except for some of the townsfolk, some of them looking like the occasional penguin. A small amount 
 of voice work was added to this game, the amount was perfect, and it was done well. It actually 
 is a good tool to learn more about the characters personality. Rune Factory has some incredible 
 features to it, but what disappointed me was some of the pricing, which certain items, such as 
 fodder and house expansion, where sold for what I think was a little bit too high despite the product.
 
  
  All in all, Harvest Moon fans will not be disappointed. Rune Factory completely clears the faults 
 of Harvest Moon DS and sets a new pace for the series. I can't wait for Rune Factory 2. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tsunamiwave
Rating: 8.5
Date: Aug 17, 2007 6:37 pm PT
Review:  What the? This new review system doesn't let me give points for graphics and whatnot?! Jeez.... Fine 
 fine, we'll have to improvise... Graphics are 8. Sound is 7. Gameplay is 9. Longevity is 9 and tilt 
 is 9 too. I'm not sure what the previous rating system would give but I think it's a solid 8.8. Let's 
 start.
  
  The graphics in this game are 3D. NIce 3D too. It all works like Resident Evil. You get a static background 
 that's pretty detailed and the characters are rendered in 3D. Not much of a problem as in the Resident 
 Evil game since everything is presented in top down view, so the camera angles stay the same. There's 
 also a nice animated opening (Everthing anime, brother!) . I'll admit one thing though, the character 
 models look like penguins. It's true! Look closely at them and you'll see oversized hands that resemble 
 penguin wings!
  
  The sound department....... Nothing too special. It's decent and all, but there's nothing too interesting 
 about it. Soundeffects are fine. It's the music and voiceacting. I know it's always been like this 
 but I wish they put background music when it rains. All you get is a rain soundeffect (sounds like 
 real rain on earphones though) . As for voiceacting.... Ummm..... It's a little cheesy. Sounds awkward 
 in a way. You'll have to hear it for yourself if you want to understand what I mean. Also, I'm not 
 sure if this qualifies as sound, but it's the character dialogue. For some reason all the shop owners 
 always add an as always to their dialogue. It's not exactly bad grammer but it sounds weird.
  
  The game succeeds in the gameplay department. The Harvest Moon segment of the game is like last 
 time, plant crops, attract a gal, marry her and live happily ever after without aging (cool.) . It works 
 as well as previous games but it's more accessible and less tedious now. Wait.. Something's not right... Where's 
 the stable, the barn, the chicken coop? No more raising animals here, which brings us to the next segment 
 of the game, what I'd like to call the Rune Factory segment. You fight monsters in this game, wowee!! It's 
 real time fighting by the way. If you weilding a sword this game will feel like a Zelda game. Only 
 bad thing about this is you use energy points each time you swing a sword (or use any equipment 
 for that matter) . As for the animal part, it's been replaced with monster capturing. I have not caught 
 any monsters yet (this game just came out, go figure) but from what I heard the monsters assist you 
 in farming and stuff. There's online mode too but I'm not sure what it does (haven't tried it either)
 
  
  Overall, this game has good graphics, okay sound, great gameplay. Add this all up and you get a game 
 worth playing on your DS. If you played Harvest Moon: Save the Homeland for the Playstation 2 you 
 might enjoy this as well as this game feels very similar to that one compared with other Harvest 
 Moon games. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: FlawlessSeasons
Rating: 8.5
Date: Aug 17, 2007 5:25 pm PT
Review:  I LOVE Harvest Moon, so when Harvest Moon DS originally came out, I was pretty excited for it 
 only to find that it was just a bad sequel to Friends of Mineral town. Now Rune Factory has come 
 in to fill the void that was left by the disappointment that was Harvest Moon DS.
  
  The story of Rune Factory is youre a lost, amnesic guy who stumbles into town only to collapse 
 outside the young lady, Mists house. She eventually gives you a hoe and watering can only to realize 
 that you need food and water. After talking she offers to give you her far that she doesnt use 
 so you can live there and take care of it. While being shown around the farm, a monster pops up 
 and attacks. After you defeat it with your hoe, Mist informs you that while people use monsters 
 to help them farm, this is the first time shes seen monsters attack, and so starts the story.
 
  
  The game play of Rune Factory is half standard Harvest Moon, half dungeon crawler. While youre 
 not tending to your garden, making money, and socializing with the townsfolk, youll be in a cave 
 battling monsters with swords and shields. The fights are standard, swing a sword, drink a potion, 
 cure some status effects, kill some more. The only thing you need to make sure of is to destroy 
 the spawning machine, if you dont monsters will keep coming at you. You also need to watch your 
 Rune Points which is this games stamina. If you rune of Rune Points, your health will start 
 to decrease when you swing a sword, hammer, axe, ect. The way to replenish these Rune Points is 
 to go into a cave before hand and plant some seeds. A fully grown 3x3 square of vegetables will 
 have a little glowing ball over it, this is a rune, by running into it, and it replenishes your 
 RP. So basically you will need to tend to a few patches of vegetables in a cave before you can 
 fully run through without compromising all your RP. The new game play additions to this Harvest 
 Moon game, definitely creates a fresh experience in order to compliment the classic Harvest Moon 
 game play.
  
  On a technical side, this is possibly one of the best looking DS games Ive played. The colors 
 are vivid and the settings are imaginative. The only problem I have with the settings is when it 
 rains, the sky is still blue as if it wasnt actually raining.
  
  Not all is good in this game though, but the positive thing about that is theyre not big issues. 
 Interaction with the townsfolk is very minimal. There arent a whole lot of gifts you can give 
 them early on being that most of their liked gifts are made by cooking. This makes it sort of 
 hard to woo a potential wife early in the game which some Harvest Moon players are pretty used 
 to. When you do have a wife, a year later you will get a child which is another Harvest Moon staple. 
 The bad thing about your kid is the fact that he doesnt grow at all. He will never crawl, he will 
 never walk, and he just stays in his mothers arms the entire game. Some festivals also suffer 
 from lack of interaction being that you cant do a whole lot of stuff at them. The soundtrack isnt 
 up to par in my book, which is Harvest Moon 64s soundtrack, but well let that one slide.
  
  Overall, Rune Factory is a great game which should be played by all Harvest Moon fans and all 
 RPG fans. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kkiirraa99
Rating: 8
Date: Aug 17, 2007 12:53 pm PT
Review:  Rune factory: a fantasy harvest moon was a very good game in my opinion. It was not perfect the 
 there are some flaws to the game but there is also alot of of good points to the game. in this 
 review i will tell you the goods and the bads.
  
  First we'll start with the good things some good things are the graphics. The graphics to me are 
 very well done. another good things is it's very fun for a harvest moon game sometimes they can 
 get very boring. Not this game because of the simple twist of making it a half adventure game when 
 you just get bored of farming you can go on a quest into one of the five games. also you whats 
 fun is that you can farm in caves you can experience the thrills of the caves and the suttleness 
 of farming. Another fun thing is that you can tame monsters to work on your farm and be a body 
 guard to crops in caves. also the wifi is sort of fun it's similar to the final fantasy III wifi 
 send messages but this one you cant rade items and other stuff i don't really remember.
  
  Which brings me to some of the bad things. Some bad things are the nmber of cave as you know there 
 is only 5 caves. I think that it would make the game better one it would increase the play time 
 of the game even though i haven't finished the game yet but still. Also if they added another town 
 you could travel to i understand if they adde to may towns it really would be haed to call it a 
 harvest moon game because you would spend so much time adventureing you would probably forget about 
 your farm. another bad thing is that there is only one beach to fish on. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Detroit222
Rating: 8.5
Date: Aug 17, 2007 5:26 am PT
Review:  First of all, there's the graphics. No more little cartoon Mario-type guys. Instead we have lovely 
 wide-eyed ladies and hunky guys. Even YOUR character is a hunk. And unlike the little HM towns 
 of the past, this village LOOKS like a village. The details are incredible. The storyline is good. 
 You're a stranger in town, can't remember where you came from or where you are going. A lovely 
 lady gives you a job on a farm she owns. What you do with the farm is up to you. The harder you 
 work the more rewards you get.
  
  Sounds like your everyday HM? Not exactly. Cause there are also caves to explore, monsters to fight, 
 bosses to kill, clues to your identity, secrets of the town. The music is decent, the voices are 
 pretty good - and the game doesn't end when the story does. You can keep going, fall in love, have 
 a child and build your little farm up. I'd recommend this for RPGers who like some story with their 
 boss battles. Strategizers who like figuring things out. And for those of us who simply like to 
 WHACK something now and again! 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
