-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: SBK: Snowboard Kids
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/ds/sports/snowboardskidsds/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 Interesting marriage of snowboarding and Mario Kart-style racing.
 Good sense of speed.
 Courses are lengthy and interesting.
 Controls are responsive and not overly complicated.
 Cartoon flavor creates a warm atmosphere.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 Tough to defend against magical shots.
 Seven courses isn't enough.
 CPU boarders gang up on the human.
 Less personality than the N64's Snowboard Kids games.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Feb 17, 2006
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 6.7
Critic Score: 5.9, 15 Review (s)
User Score: 7.8, 163 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Atlus Co.
Genre: Snowboarding
Date: Nov 22, 2005
ESRB: Everyone

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
A few rough spots aside, the main problem with Atlus' snow-themed racing game is that the single-player 
 content is exhausted so quickly. 

  If you took a traditional snowboarding game -- SSX, for example -- and crossed it with Mario Kart in 
 some sort of Frankenstein experiment, you'd end up with something like SBK: Snowboard Kids. The 
 teenybopper characters in Atlus' snow-themed racing game compete on downhill courses and perform 
 tricks just like the characters in any run-of-the-mill snowboarding game would, but they also have 
 the added benefit of being able to harass one another with weapons and items while out on the slopes. 
 This unique marriage of genres succeeds for the most part, despite a minimalist selection of tricks 
 and the fact that some shots and items are nearly impossible to defend against. If anything, the 
 game's biggest shortfall is that the single-player experience is exhausted rather quickly.  

          SSX meets Mario Kart in this unique snow-themed racing game.     

  Players can take 
 control of any of nine different teen phenoms, each with their own abilities, boards, and trick 
 sets, and set out on any of seven courses in various race and trick competitions. Fans of the two 
 Nintendo 64 Snowboard Kids games will recognize the cast in the DS game, as well as a few of the 
 items, but not much else, as the courses in the sequel are entirely new and the organizational 
 structure of the play options is more straightforward than it was in the N64 games. Gone is the 
 3D village where players could choose events, talk to other characters, and uncover new locations. 
 The social aspects and wandering that gave the N64 games an extra dash of personality were left 
 out of the DS game in favor of a portable-friendly menu structure that spells out matter-of-factly 
 what events and options are available. Solo play modes include world tour, slalom, and boss battle. 
 The world tour mode is the most involved, as it offers three different tournaments that present 
 all of the game's courses with a variety of score and ranking goals. Points earned in all modes 
 can be used to unlock the small handful of characters, boards, costumes, and courses that aren't 
 initially available. There's also a multiplayer Wi-Fi mode, which allows as many as four players 
 to compete using one or multiple game cards.  

  Out on the slopes, the game plays like a mixture of SSX and Mario Kart. As is true of any traditional 
 snowboarding game, you ultimately want to end up in first place or at the top of the point standings, 
 depending on what the event calls for. However, besides controlling the board and performing tricks, 
 you and the other racers can also harass each other with item pickups and magical shots. Items 
 can be picked up by running through the boxes that are strewn around the course. Meanwhile, each 
 kid has the ability to shoot magical shots that automatically home in on nearby targets. The basic 
 controls are similar to any other snowboarding game, with steering and tricks made possible by 
 pressing directions on the D pad and holding the different buttons in midair. Generally speaking, 
 it's easier to perform tricks in the DS game than it was in the two N64 games because fewer button 
 inputs are necessary. In a controversial move, Atlus made it so that signature tricks are performed 
 by tapping hot spots on the touch screen. That's sure to annoy people who are averse to the touch 
 screen, but, on the upside, there's never any fumbling with the stylus, because the hot spots are 
 large enough to tap with a finger. The game also makes limited use of the microphone, requiring 
 players to blow into the microphone in order to shake off status effects such as sleep and blindness. 

          Signature tricks are performed by tapping hot spots on the touch screen.     

  Some aspects of the game are more fleshed out than others. Even though there aren't that many 
 of them, the courses are lengthy and interesting. Most have optional shortcuts. The variety of 
 item pickups is also good. There's the usual assortment of speed boosters and land mines, as well 
 as a few clever creations, such as the parachute, which slows victims down, or the fog bomb, which 
 temporarily blinds its victims. Compared to other snowboarding games, and even the two previous 
 Snowboard Kids games, the trick system in this game is rather simplistic. Grinding on rails is 
 impossible, and only a handful of tricks can be chained together at any given opportunity. As it 
 is, there really aren't all that many unique tricks to perform. Most characters only have two unique 
 flips, spins, and grabs in their repertoire, which can be performed separately or in combination, 
 as well as a pair of signature tricks.  

  In the grand scheme of things, the lack of tricks isn't such a big deal, even in light of the fact 
 that there are fewer tricks in the DS game than either of the N64 games, because the game is more 
 focused on racing than the performance of trick routines. More problematic than the dearth of tricks 
 is the unfair CPU. All three CPU boarders have a habit of ganging up on the human player. They 
 also regenerate their magic quicker. Neither of these biases would be so bad alone, but together 
 they are often annoying, especially since there's no way to reflect magic shots while on the ground. 
 For reasons only known to the game's designers, magic shots can only be reflected in midair by 
 performing spin tricks.  

  Everything that the single-player mode has to offer can be completed and unlocked in around four 
 hours. After that, your mileage will obviously vary based upon how much you still enjoy the game 
 once there aren't any more concrete goals to strive for. When Atlus produced the two Snowboard 
 Kids games for the Nintendo 64, they provided players with an added incentive to play through the 
 game with each character, in the form of multiple dialogue scenes and endings sequences. They didn't 
 do that with the DS game, apart from a couple brief lines of dialogue bookending every tournament 
 and a single illustrated frame that appears when you beat the last tournament with each character. 

  If your friends own DS systems, you can significantly extend the game's lasting value by taking 
 advantage of its single-card and multicard local Wi-Fi features. Using a single copy of the game, 
 as many as four players can duke it out on the Alps trick course. Multicard play allows full access 
 to every course and event in the game, and lets players toggle items and weapons on or off. Multiplayer 
 is more fun than solo play, for obvious reasons, not the least of which is that human players are 
 less likely to gang up on any one particular person. Apart from a few hiccups that happen when 
 the joined DS systems are located too far apart from one another, multiplayer play is just as smooth 
 as solo play.  

          Courses don't flaunt a ton of detail, but the frame rate is smooth and the animations are 
 fluid.      

  Anyone who can appreciate things that are young at heart will enjoy the game's presentation. The 
 large menu icons, cute character portraits and models, and colorful course features come together 
 to make SBK feel warm and inviting. So too, the peppy music selections and enthusiastic character 
 voice clips contribute to the game's upbeat atmosphere. The musical compositions aren't as intricate 
 or melodic as those we've heard in other DS racing games, but they are catchy and do fit the overall 
 tone of the game. Players familiar with the N64's Snowboard Kids games will recognize the cast 
 of characters. The majority of the old cast is back, though they've aged into teenagers since their 
 last outing. From a technical standpoint, the game doesn't flaunt the system's graphical capabilities, 
 but the polygonal scenery is adequately detailed and there's a good sense of speed throughout. 
 It helps that the frame rate is silky smooth, as are the various character- and trick-related animations. 
 The system also doesn't have a problem displaying every part of the course up ahead, with the exception 
 of laid traps such as land mines and ice walls. With regard to the course itself, the draw distance 
 is ample. For some reason, however, traps often pop into view barely a few steps in front of the 
 characters.  

  All told, SBK: Snowboard Kids should provide a fair amount of enjoyment to those who warm up to 
 its unique design. This blending of snowboarding and Mario Kart-style racing isn't for everyone, 
 and some aspects certainly could have been implemented better; but on the whole, the game is fun 
 and interesting.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (12 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: _Nintendork_
Rating: 6.7
Date: Jul 19, 2007 6:05 pm PT
Review:  Snow board kids for the ds took a bold move in compleatly revamping the game. Unlike Resident evil 
 4, in which it took a positive turn, SBK fell dramaticly from its N64 counterparts. The main flaws 
 with the game would be the new weapon system, the characters themselves and the character roster. 
 The weapon system in the other two Snowboard kids has a large variety of weapons that anyone could 
 obtain. The New SBK now has one attack for each character wich can realy overpower or make a character 
 usless. The old characters were obviously kids, each were modeled to look SD and had huge noses. 
 Now, the snowboard kids are practicly adults, they are no longer SD and dont have huge noses. And 
 finaly the character roster has changed from the other two games Atlus thought for some reason 
 the drop a couple for their previous roster and to add their own company masscot...
  Basicly this game is pretty good, if Atlus ever decides to make another SBK and returnes to their 
 old ways like the previous SBKs then this game will certainly be overlooked by most like Zelda 
 2. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Starwarrz
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 20, 2006 6:10 pm PT
Review:  This game is under appreciated and shown as boring and too easy but after the first couple competitions 
 the level of difficulty increases to a challenging level. SBK has a great variety of characters 
 and weapons the touch screen is a fun and inventive way to do your special tricks. The game has 
 great music and sound effects. SBK, being a racing game, has a great replay value and will entertain 
 you for hours and hours because it uses every one of the DS's capabilityies in an actually easy 
 to use, fun, and useful manner, unlike other games that just try to sell the game by adding touch 
 screen capabilities like Pokemon ranger. This a great game for people who already love the other 
 SBK games or a newcomer to the franchise just looking for an inventive racing game. I highly recommend 
 that you buy this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kipi19
Rating: 5.2
Date: Feb 25, 2006 9:42 am PT
Review:  I'v played this a considerable amount of atime a found a bit boring and primitive, the game treats 
 you as if you were 5yrs old, the game itself is very short and boring. the game has no plot and 
 excitement, when i heard about this game it was raved about since the success of the N64 versions, 
 but when i bought it off ebay just after christmas i was dissapointed compared to what this game 
 could of been. i dont what went wrong, if they do a sequel they should sit down and have a good 
 hard discussion about what they should do. if they don't come to a conclusion they shouldn't bother. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: videogameslover
Rating: 7
Date: Feb 20, 2006 6:10 am PT
Review:  This game for Nintendo DS was a great idea. I really like the graphics on this game. You can see 
 where you are going and what you are doing. I like how the characters say something every time 
 they hit a character or when they finish a race. What I don't like about the game that much, is 
 the cheats you can buy from the store. I think that the kids or whoever is playing the game should 
 beat the game on their own and not with help. Then as they finish the game they can use the cheats. 
 I am a little gilty of using the cheats before I beat the game. Well that is all I have to say 
 about this game. 
  
  P. S- The difficulty of the game is good. You start out easy (which is what I need) and then you 
 get a little harder as you go on (which what I don't need) . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: -InsrtNameHere-
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 19, 2006 6:57 pm PT
Review:  This game is great. I havent played the earlier games in the series, but I heard its true to its 
 roots. But I have played SSX Tricky, and this is just like it.
  
  Pros: The graphics are the best I have seen in ANY DS Game. The Sound is Great. They have great 
 music. They have 4 player matches, and single-cart games. There is so much to do, unlock, and master. 
 The dificulty is amazingly high.
  
  Cons: There are some gameplay issues, like getting stuck behind walls. And for some people, but 
 i havent encountered this issue, the voices mmay get alittle annoying. The single cart wont allow 
 you to chose a track or character. And this game would be great for online.
  Anyway, if you have a DS and like Mario Kart or SSX, Definitally get this game. And for anyone 
 else out there who dont, its worth a try. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lukeekblad
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jan 19, 2006 3:15 pm PT
Review:  
  
  I have not yet played the snowboard kids games for the N64 yet but from what I have played from 
 the DS version has been good. The graphics of SBK DS are better than N64 graphics and about the 
 same as some PS2 graphics. There are four different modes, world tour challenge, slalom, boss battle 
 and VS mode. I think this game has very high replay value because there are four modes you can 
 play and there is a lot of items you can unlock. I hope ATLUS will make another SBK game for the 
 DS in the future. But for now, SBK DS is a great game!
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: anonymonius
Rating: 8.8
Date: Jan 7, 2006 5:03 pm PT
Review:  This is my only game for the DS at the moment although i have played others. 
  
  The graphics are quite amazing, i'm sick of all these ds games using gameboy advanced graphics! 
 what a waste of power! I'm also sick of the DS having such crappy games. look at the games today 
 and beside nintendogs, mario carts, and animal crossing, nothing gets a good review. I couldn't 
 believe this got some bad reviews!
  
  the graphics are late playstation 1 mixed with early playstation 1 and it totally works. 
  
 
  The game is just outright fun. there are quite a few courses and all are very fun to play. Snowboarding 
 is so awesome and now that i'm living in hawaii, all i have are the snowboarding games. 
  
  I don't listen to the music sinse it is the downfall of a great game. its way too.... childish.
 
  
  Basically, the whole shooting aspect of the game is there to hurt you and help you. just depends 
 how well you use it. i loved it. it helped me back up to first place quite a bit of times.
  
  The tricks are so cool, people complain that it takes too long to touch the screen but and 
 its impossible. thats a lie! all you have to do is use your finger and tap away! don't be shy. 
 the ds won't bite and if fingerprints are a problem, just use you nail. it works and i thought 
 it would be a piece of crap but it wasn't. if you think its a piece of crap then you don't even 
 have to use the touch screen at all. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: stuffedcabbage
Rating: 8
Date: Dec 28, 2005 10:27 pm PT
Review:  I neverplayed the original, well i actually didnt know there was one. But if you like snowboarding 
 games, definitely get this game, but if your not into it, its still really fun to play.
  
  The graphics are poor, but it is one of those games you get addicted on. Like a lot of snowboarding 
 games, you earn money and buy courses and characters and all that jazz. 
  
  There is even a boss that you have to fight from time to time, he seems impossible at first, but 
 once you get the hang of it, hes pretty easy. It also has a single card multiplayer function, so 
 you can race with your friends and shoot ice balls or fire at them.
  
  If you have the extra cash, buy this game, but dont go ripping and arm off for it. RIGHT ON!!!!! 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Burin077
Rating: 4.3
Date: Dec 24, 2005 10:11 pm PT
Review:  Alright, let me start this review off by saying, I am a humongous fan of the previous Snowboard 
 Kids games, I tend to play them religiously for the N64 almost every day, and find the game to 
 have become a part of my life.
  
  After playing this version, I honestly must say I feel completely embarassed that I was actually 
 hyped for this game to come out, I finally get it, and the game's "new" path has taken a toll for 
 the worse...
  
  Gameplay:
  
  Compared to the more clean and slicker controls that were made for the N64 versions, this game's 
 handling will make you want to bite your hands off. Jumping in this game is a lot different, as 
 is even landing, even turning correctly must be done with another button! For a person just trying 
 to start getting into the SBK series, they may have a bit of an advantage for trying to get used 
 to the controls, but a veteran player will suffer at the lack of freedom of movement during tricks, 
 and the horrendous amount of slip-ups they will encounter right at the start of the game. Getting 
 used to the heavy amount of dependency on the touch screen for this game also runs veteran gamers 
 up a wall. Just like the original? Definitely not.
  Adding to the fire here, I want to bring up the game's previous environment, specifically in Snowboard 
 Kids 2, where it gives the player more of a unique feeling, being able to walk through a city and 
 do various things revolving around the game's genre (Shot, Trick, Speed, etc) ; this element is 
 absent in this game. Personally the game could have benefitted by giving more emphasis on that, 
 even break open the opportunities for a more dynamic game style.
  Further steaming up the windows, the game's storyline is lacking and unoriginal. Anyone can come 
 up with a simple tournament storyline as well as love interests within, this is probably what irked 
 me the most, as the previous game's playful and whimsical element has been completely garbled and 
 washed away by this new "serious and hard" element that truly fails to achieve what it meant to.
 
  
  Graphics:
  
  Right when the game's first silhouette was revealed, people had mixed reactions to the game's new 
 artstyle and environment. The kids lost their traditional "big nose" look, for a more "slick and 
 attractive" look; while it may appeal to some, veterans of the game whom have grown to enjoy the 
 previous art style are insulted by this "attempt to look trendy". Even worse is that the characters 
 are heavily stereotyped!
  In the actual graphics look, the game seems rather pixelated, not much is done in the way of showing 
 character emotion, much of the simple tricks look plain and unoriginal, even the levels tend to 
 bother your eyes at first glance.
  
  Sound:
  
  Simply put... *Groan*
  Oh when I began to hear the repetitivity of this game's sounds and voices, I was quite tempted 
 to pull a screwdriver from my desk and stab my ears with it. The voices in the game are rather 
 bad, to the degree of annoying or as I have said before, heavily stereotyped. I got annoyed with 
 the game quite quickly when I began to hear my character repeatedly saying the same phrase over 
 and over again as they shoot people.
  
  Overall:
  
  I really wanted to like this game, I really did, but out of all of the Snowboard Kids Games, even 
 all the racing games i've played, this game just made me want to cry. I wanted to see this game 
 grow and be made into a unique and innovative game, but with the interface looking like something 
 that was taken out of SSX, to the lackluster controls that encourage too heavily on the touch screen, 
 this is quite frankly one of my least favorite racing games that I own. Had the game stayed with 
 its original characters, perhaps added a new element or two along the lines of its former environment 
 already laid out, and had focused a LOT less on the touch screen, the game could have gotten more 
 of my attention, but right now, being honest, after hyping over this game, then seeing its result, 
 I am beginning to feel as if I really should have bought the game in the first place. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: slippery209
Rating: 8.3
Date: Dec 21, 2005 6:26 pm PT
Review:  I've been waiting for another Snowboard Kids game since 1999, the year that Snowboard Kids 2 came 
 out for the Nintendo 64. That game had been developed by Racdym, and I don't know if they are still 
 around, as the game shows no traces of their having worked on this newer SBK (Snowboard Kids) title. 
 Whatever the case may be, Atlus did well to cover for them.
  
  The first time I popped the game into my DS, I was not impressed. I played it all the way home 
 as my mother drove me from Gamestop. It seemed rather difficult at first, but after I had played 
 it a little more that night and the next day, I realized how truly easy the game was (at least 
 the C [lowest level] story mode) . Furthermore, as I continued to play, I began to appreciate the 
 game more and I learned to like it; it grew on me. SBK: DS preserves most of the classic Snowboard 
 Kids gameplay from the N64 games, but it uses the DS's touch screen and microphone to vary the 
 gameplay somewhat.
  
  The technical aspects of the game (graphics and sound) are, for the most part, standard Snowboard 
 Kids stuff. The only noticeable difference in the style of graphics and sound from SBK: DS to the 
 SBK games of old is the character design. The characters actually look sort of realistic, unlike 
 the characters from SBK games on the N64, who had a certain fame for their large noses or other 
 noteworthy features. A nice feature is that you can press the Select button during races (or boss 
 battles and slalom runs, two other types of gameplay SBK: DS has to offer) to cycle through the 
 music the game plays during race gameplay; there is no set melody that plays with every course.
 
  
  The game offers a "World Tour Challenge" mode for single player gameplay, where the player goes 
 through exhibition races, slalom runs, boss battles, and a trick competition to try to finish on 
 top after all the snowboarding is done. This comes in three different difficulty levels, A, B, 
 and C, with A being the highest. It is also possible to play the aforementioned slalom runs and 
 boss battles separately. Exhibition races and trick competitions can be played under versus mode 
 from the main menu, either single player or multiplayer. For single player versus mode gaming, 
 just set yourself to be the "Leader" DS system and advance past the screens to select your gametype 
 and character and race course without setting up any other slots for any other human players to 
 play.
  
  After playing for a while, as I mentioned before, the game becomes very easy, and even A-level 
 stuff won't be that much of a challenge. I have yet to race against S-level computers in the aforementioned 
 exhibition mode.
  
  SBK comes with many unlockables to keep you playing for a good while. 
  
  All in all, the DS 
 version of SBK is an enjoyable alternative racing game that just about anyone can pick up and play.
 
  
  (I give the value a 9 because of the potential this game has to become very rare.) 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: crazy_ferret123
Rating: 9.7
Date: Dec 3, 2005 8:12 am PT
Review:  like almost everyone, i had an n64. and the best time i had playing it was with SBK 1 & 2. with 
 its catchy techno beats and its crazy style, my brother his freind and his freinds sister, and 
 i used to pick out wich characters we were and act them out. we were so nieve, i know. but we had 
 the greatest time. ive been trying to find the old n64 titles at all my local game stores, but 
 i couldnt find them. and finally, just as i was giving up, i saw it. SBK on the ds. so i bought 
 it. well i have to say, its the greatest boarder of all time. with its crazy tricks u pull of with 
 the touch screen, and guess what?? the technos BACK!!! HOORAY!!! but the greatest part of this game 
 is the mario kart esque attacks. each character has his or her own attacks, and there are some 
 scattered around the course. these are awsome. one is a cloud of smoke that fogs your glasses, 
 and you have to blow it off using the mic. another is a thing that puts u to sleep. so u have to 
 yell as loud as u can into the mic to wake him up. these are just a few examples, but there are 
 many more. there is also a **** load of extras, like courses, boards, and even characters! and 
 they are fun to unlock. and the multi player is great. there is 1-4 ds download, and 1-4 cartridge 
 wi-fi. this is a great game, and any fan of the genre, or the original n64 game should pick this 
 up. seriously, do, because you are making a purchase that you will have some superbly good times 
 with. adios 
::::::

::::::
UserName: thatguyoncheese
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 22, 2005 4:42 pm PT
Review:  Look, I had snowboard kids and snowboard kids 2 and those were the best games in the world to me. 
 I rented it and never gave it back!! It was so fun i couldn't wait for the sequel. And finally, 
 here it is, the sequel to my favorite game... I flipped out. It was so awesome I gave it a 10. 
 I think this game is very underappreciated and the world should recongnize this game for what it 
 is!! The multiplayer is the best aspect of the game. Virtually ssible in single-player is possible 
 in multiplayer. That what makes this game so awesome. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
