-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Scurge: Hive
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/ds/action/scurge_hive/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 Nice old-school mix of combat, exploration, and puzzle-solving.
 Good variety of enemies and weapons.
 Zany boss battles.
 Great visual style and masterful music.
 Duplicates Metroid's style without coming across as overly derivative.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 Blasting cannon-fodder enemies and solving switch puzzles can sometimes feel monotonous.
 Backtracking is a nuisance early in the game.
 Aiming is sometimes difficult.
 Not much to do once you finish the game, except do it again faster.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Dec  1, 2006
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 7.7
Critic Score: 7.0, 33 Review (s)
User Score: 7.3, 164 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: SouthPeak Games
Developer: Orbital
Genre: Fantasy Action Adventure
Date: Nov 1, 2006
ESRB: Everyone 10+

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Scurge: Hive is a solid action adventure with a slick presentation that should appeal to anyone 
 who enjoys the Metroid style of play. 

  Communications with a research colony located on an alien planet have ceased. Sketchy reports suggest 
 that a parasitic life-form has taken over all of the wildlife and machines in and around the colony. 
 A female bounty hunter is sent in to investigate the situation and recover the research. That's 
 the basic premise behind Scurge: Hive, Orbital Media's sci-fi-themed action adventure for the Game 
 Boy Advance and Nintendo DS.  

          You control a female bounty hunter who's been sent to investigate an alien outbreak on 
 another planet.     

  An action adventure involving an alien infestation and a female bounty hunter -- that sure sounds 
 like Metroid. Certainly, the comparisons between Nintendo's Metroid series and Orbital's original 
 creation are unavoidable. Both games task you with exploring a large alien complex, gathering weapons, 
 and gradually unlocking new areas, all while blasting wave after wave of icky creatures. Both games 
 offer a similar take on the old-school "run, jump, and shoot" formula. And both games feature slick 
 graphics, a marvelous soundtrack, and a hackneyed, albeit intricate, plot told through high-tech 
 cinematic scenes. Scurge: Hive isn't afraid to ape the Metroid blueprint, although it does introduce 
 its own nuances.  

  Most obvious is the overhead isometric perspective, which lets you run, jump, and blast away in 
 a manner that has more in common with The Legend of Zelda than Metroid. Playing as Jenosa the bounty 
 hunter, you still have to jump between platforms, climb up ledges, and push objects around, but 
 the almost three-dimensional perspective gives greater depth to the research colony and its surrounding 
 environment. It also gave the developer the freedom to introduce some truly brain-teasing spatial 
 puzzles. To complete each of the game's six chapters, for instance, you "merely" have to activate 
 the power terminals located inside each wing of the lab and defeat the bosses that have taken up 
 residence inside; but getting those tasks done requires jumping through the mental hoops required 
 to get to the keys, unlock the doors, and resituate the power generators located in the rooms along 
 the way.  

  Further following in the footsteps of Metroid and Zelda, Scurge: Hive isn't split up into a succession 
 of self-contained levels. Instead, you explore a single, large complex where new doorways and areas 
 become available once key abilities have been acquired. After you get the fire upgrade from the 
 desert area, for example, you can use it to burn away the underbrush blocking the caves in the 
 forest area. New surprises are constantly cropping up in areas that you've previously explored. 
 Besides encouraging backtracking and exploration, this format helps immerse you in the gameworld 
 better than a disjointed sequence of separate levels would. As it is, each section of the complex 
 has its own style of architecture and terrain, as well as a unique assortment of enemies, so it's 
 not as if you're stuck seeing the same blue steel hallways the entire time. The story is told gradually, 
 with new bits and pieces revealed when you enter rooms or access certain computer terminals for 
 the first time. Waypoints on the map keep you moving in the right direction, and boss battles mark 
 the end of one chapter and the start of the next -- but you're always free to deviate from the plan 
 and explore wherever you want.  

  Of course, there are loads of ugly, man-eating aliens to deal with, too. Each room or area is full 
 of a dozen different types of them, which respawn every time you leave and come back. Some will 
 try to hurt you by bumping into you. Others do their dirty work by hurling energy blasts or acid. 
 A few will actually try to grab Jenosa and chew on her. Overall, there's a good variety of enemies, 
 and most look appropriately gross and disgusting. Jenosa's weapons do an excellent job of splattering 
 her attackers, however, so you'll rarely find yourself up-close and personal with a group of baddies 
 for more than a few seconds in each area. These smaller creatures are mainly fodder to keep you 
 on your toes. Boss battles are a different matter. While you're exploring the research complex, 
 you'll eventually come across one of the six larger Scurge creatures that have taken up residence 
 inside one of the base's many power reactors. Each boss is massive, ugly, and has multiple attack 
 patterns. Some old-school reflexes and quick thinking are required to dodge the bosses' attacks 
 and figure out which abilities to employ so that you can actually damage these beasts. In one area, 
 for example, you'll face off against a worm that will try to suck you into its mouth. By latching 
 onto a rock with Jenosa's tether rope, you can avoid becoming worm food. Boss battles provide an 
 exciting change of pace from gunning down fodder enemies and solving switch puzzles.  

  Much like Samus of Metroid fame, the female lead in Scurge: Hive comes clad in a cybernetic suit 
 that lets her withstand quite a bit of damage and dish out energy blasts to any unfortunate opposition. 
 When the game opens, Jenosa has a basic energy weapon and can peform simple actions that allow 
 her to jump across gaps and grab onto ledges and pipes (which she can shimmy across) . As you go 
 through the game, you'll add other weapons, tools, and abilities to Jenosa's arsenal. In general, 
 each weapon lets you vanquish certain enemies more quickly. The one exception is the ice beam, 
 which lets you transform enemies into heavy ice cubes that are perfect for activating the switch 
 panels set into the floors in some rooms. As for tools and abilities, the three worth mentioning 
 are the tether rope, boost boots, and time displacement upgrade. With the tether, you can catapult 
 across large gaps and drag around objects such as generators or enemies that you've frozen with 
 the ice beam. After you acquire the boost boots, you'll be able to perform a double-jump that will 
 enable Jenosa to reach those lofty platforms that have been teasing you since the first area. The 
 time displacement upgrade, meanwhile, adds a  Matrix -style twist to Jenosa's repertoire. When 
 you activate it, the screen turns gray and enemies move at a snail's pace. All in all, Scurge: 
 Hive gives you a healthy assortment of weapons and abilities.     

  The game's most unique feature -- one that people will either love or hate -- is the time limit that's 
 imposed while working away from the many medical stations that function as de facto rejuvenation 
 and save points within the research station. At the beginning of the game, you discover that Jenosa 
 was infected by the Scurge virus the moment she entered the station. The practical effect of this 
 is that there's always a counter that's constantly counting up to 100 percent while you play. When 
 it tops out, Jenosa will start to lose health and eventually die. Contact with enemies and their 
 acidic attacks can also hurt Jenosa and increase the spread of the infection. You can recover health 
 and reset the infection counter to zero by stepping into a medical station, but that doesn't eliminate 
 the infection. It only starts the counter from zero again. This adds a tense imperative to getting 
 through rooms quickly, but it also forces you to retrace your steps if the only known medical station 
 happens to be a few rooms in the direction opposite the next waypoint on the map. Thankfully, the 
 amount of forced backtracking steadily decreases as you gain experience and build up Jenosa's resistance 
 to the infection. Her stamina also grows with each level-up, allowing you to take more damage before 
 scurrying back to the nearest medical pod.  

          The GBA version is cheaper, but the DS version lets you see more and shows the map at all 
 times.     

  Along the way, there are a few other potential annoyances that you'll have to come to terms with. 
 The shape of the system's control pad doesn't lend itself well to diagonal movement, which can 
 sometimes prove problematic when you have to shoot an enemy or grab onto a tether point that's 
 situated at an angle away from you. Regarding the game's design, a feeling of monotony tends to 
 set in from time to time as you battle the same enemies and solve yet another switch puzzle. That's 
 especially true when you're merely gunning down creatures to gain the experience necessary to build 
 Jenosa's stamina to a level that will let you go through an area without rushing to the sick bay 
 all the time. For the most part, the developer did a good job of minimizing how often you'll notice 
 those flaws. There really aren't that many situations in which you can't afford to miss with a 
 few bullets or make another attempt to swing across a gap. As for the potential monotony, that's 
 easily tempered by taking a break from playing every hour or two. The boss battles at the end of 
 each chapter also make it easy to forget the work that you put into getting to the boss's chamber. 

  Another thing that makes slogging through enemies and puzzles easier is the game's overall presentation, 
 which is, in a word, scrumptious. The 2D backdrops are colorful and loaded with detail. Many environments 
 employ fog and scrolling visual effects that are impressive to see, whether you're playing the 
 game on a Nintendo DS or the Game Boy Advance. Jenosa and her enemies move gracefully and have 
 a good variety of animations. Bosses are absolutely huge and tend to span multiple screens. Story 
 cutaways are dynamic and often alternate between showing the characters mouthing their words to 
 depicting an action scene put together using in-game backgrounds and sprites. Obviously, the 2D 
 backdrops and sprites don't tax the graphical capabilities of the Nintendo DS, but what the game 
 lacks in the technical sense it makes up for in terms of sheer artistry. Special praise goes to 
 the game's musical score. The various techno- and classical-themed tunes set the mood perfectly. 
 They're dramatic and haunting, but they're also appropriately fast-paced when they need to be. 
 They also sound rich and melodic coming out of the system's speakers, like actual music instead 
 of the artificial beats and beeps that comprise the soundtrack of a typical GBA or DS game. Unfortunately, 
 all of the sound effects seem plain by comparison, but the various laser blasts and girly screams 
 do at least jibe with the action.  

  Going through the game's six chapters will take you approximately 8 to 10 hours. Between the solid 
 dungeon-crawl design and the rich presentation, the initial ride is definitely compelling enough 
 to warrant the time investment. However, beyond that it's tough to guess how much additional playtime 
 you might be able to squeeze out of Orbital's handiwork. A few old-school bonuses unlock after 
 you finish the game, including a hard mode, a boss rush mode, and a costume changer. These rewards 
 don't add any new content to the main quest, but they can make things interesting if you're the 
 type of person who enjoys playing through a game multiple times or setting your own speed-run records. 
 For some people, Scurge: Hive will be a "once and done" affair. For others, it'll be the sort of 
 game that gets pulled off the shelf from time to time to experience the story again and set new 
 records.  

  If you do intend to pick up the game, you may find yourself wondering which version to get. For 
 anyone who owns just a GBA, the choice is easy. For DS owners, the choice will come down to a trade-off 
 between comfort and economics. Both versions are identical, for the most part. The DS version affords 
 a slightly wider field of view and displays the map at all times on the system's lower screen. 
 The GBA version, meanwhile, costs 10 dollars less. Whether your own comfort is worth the extra 
 10 dollars is up to you to decide.  

  All told, Scurge: Hive is the sort of action adventure that should appeal to anyone who's into 
 the Metroid style of sci-fi dungeon-crawling. Replay value over the long term may be questionable, 
 but the initial ride offers a satisfying blend of action, exploration, and puzzles. Furthermore, 
 the stylish graphics and delicious music give the game the kind of artful presentation that only 
 a handful of games produced for portable systems have ever achieved.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (7 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: Castle_freak
Rating: 6.5
Date: Nov 16, 2008 8:59 am PT
Review:  Can you say Metroid clone? Cause thats exactly what's in store for you when you pick up Scurge: 
 Hive. That being said, its not really a bad game. The upgrades are cool and the game is full of 
 exploration. It has an attractive price too, being only $9.99 at Game Stop. What makes me give 
 it a 6.5 is this: it is way too much of a copy off. I mean, the main character is a bounty hunter 
 that uses a gun attached to her arm to fend of the enemy, which is an alien that sucks away your 
 life force. I mean, I've never seen a game so blatantly copy of a popular franchise like Metroid. 
 The one thing that seperates it from Metroid is the way they keep a gauge at the top that keeps 
 track of the virus you get when you arrive. When it is completely completely full you start to 
 lose health. The only way to keep this virus in check is to find save stations and use them before 
 your health completely runs out. This adds a little more difficulty to the adventure. While it 
 lack originality and has nothing much more for you to do once you beat the game, it is entertaining 
 adventure for any DS owner trying to build up their collection. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MetalHead888
Rating: 8
Date: Aug 9, 2008 3:20 pm PT
Review:  well, this game caught my eye because of the extremely low price. i held off to by it just then 
 because i figured, for that price, its probably terrible. when i went home i checked out the gamespot 
 review. for a game thats a 7.7 (i think thats what it is) i couldnt turn it down and went right 
 back, and it turns out, this is one of my favorite games.
  
  so when the game first starts off, it feels a lot like metriod. from the gun, to the infestation, 
 to the spirits i guess u can call them of the dead healing you, pretty much everything is just 
 like a metriod with a differnt camera style. and then guess what one of your next weapons are? 
 a grappling hook! of coarse! just like samus! another thing thats annoying is the aiming and jumping. 
 its hard to get to certain places by jumping because if the d pad. same goes for aiming.
  
  besides it being a metriod copycat, i liked the game a lot. theres a nice assortment of monsters 
 and weapons. one thing i also like is the lack of stylus use. theres so many games out there that 
 fail to use the touchscreen in the games advantage, or try to intertwine the stylus and the d pad, 
 which never works. theres a lot of save points, so if you die your not sent back valuable time 
 of play. your also forced to save because thats how u heal as well. (infection hits 100% pretty 
 quick and ur life starts to tick away) though the graphics are not really up to par, the environment 
 is extremely detailed.
  
  overall this is a very very decent game that turns out to be more then worth the money. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pandaramaster
Rating: 7
Date: Aug 6, 2008 4:16 am PT
Review:  Scurge Hive was released relatively early for the Nintendo DS. It shows because of the lack of 
 any innovative touch screen features or dazzling graphics. But that works in the game's favour 
 in my opinion. Too many launch titles shoehorned poorly thought out touch screen features that 
 added no real benefits to the game. Scurge Hive keeps things practical by designating the touch 
 screen as the map and stat screen. Everything else about the game is delibrately conventional.
 
  
  For all intent and purposes the game borrows many elements from the Metroid series. Female protagonist? 
 Check. She comes in the shape of red head bounty hunter Jessica Arma. Derelict levels but filled 
 with murderous aliens and blob viruses? Check. Upgradeable suit? Check. Weapons? Check. True, the 
 story is not different from Metroid. You respond to a distress signal, investigate, get infected 
 by a virus, fight, destroy threat, escape.
  
  That virus thing I mentioned is a big part of the gameplay. The virus count steadily increases 
 towards 100%. Once it reaches 100% you lose health incredibly fast and then die. Thankfully the 
 game is littered with medical bay that reduces that count back to 1%. Though it never cures completely. 
 It keeps the game tightly paces and focused. It's always clear what you have to do and how to do 
 it, thanks to the overly helpful computer AI you have with you. There's little chance of any real 
 exploration and the isometric viewpoint does get annoying a few times.
  
  For example, jumping onto platforms and climbing onto the various poles takes an age to get used 
 to. The controls are so fiddly and the DS D-Pad does little to help ease the pain. Even aiming 
 is hindered by this, aiming in a specific direction can take an age and you'll more or less fire 
 in a 360 motion. The game plays generally well, but it's when you have to do something that requires 
 specific accuracy the game takes a turn for the worse. But despite that, the game is generally 
 fun to play. It's just a question of patience on your half.
  
  The artwork and animation do much to bring this game alive. Rather than have it completely dark 
 and detailed as seen in Metroid Fusion, for example, the game looks a lot brighter, cartoonier 
 and it just pleasing to look at. The animation is spot on with some impressive looking visual effects 
 and interesting enemy design movements. Scuge's music also lends itself well, setting the right 
 mood and not getting annoying.
  
  Scurge Hive is quite a lenghty game for a handheld, with little backtracking. There's no real replay 
 value though and it's a little forgettable once done with.
  
  Scurge Hive is a admirable game for the DS. It's by no means a masterpiece, it's certainly no Metroid 
 beater and there's several things it should of taken out of Lunar Knight's page on how to do the 
 isometric gaming correctly. It's worth look though if you see it going cheap. I like it anyways. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: RAVEZero
Rating: 2.5
Date: Jun 26, 2008 1:11 am PT
Review:  Infestation, upgradeable armor, a CPU guiding you through the levels, and many other powers and 
 especially a single-arm gauntlet? It's a wonder Nintendo didn't file copyright issues with this.
 
  
  Look, please don't waste your time and cash like I did. I saw this in the store for $20, and I 
 want it back. It's a boring and mindless shootdown that you could give to your kid brother or sister, 
 and allow them to be tortured. Not to mention the fact that you have to keep your infestation rate 
 down constantly, and even the basic difficulty level can't help you in this area.
  
  
  And what's up with the camera angle? The thing is on a continual diagonal vertigo-inducing plane 
 that doesn't shift at all.
  
  Every time I tried to give this game a chance, I'd shut it down after 5 minutes and have fun with 
 freaking Pokemon. If you see this in a box somewhere, and desire self-loathing, then grab it, run 
 to the cashier, drive it down the guy's throat, pay the man, pull it out from said throat, and 
 play at home while bumping Panic @ the Disco or some other emo thing. Later. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: JerWroten
Rating: 4.9
Date: Jun 3, 2007 8:07 pm PT
Review:  Wow! What a rip off. (and that was at $10.) I love RPGs, loved Metroid, Game Boy and console versions, 
 but this was just boring. First off, It takes forever to figure out where you go, and when you 
 finally do, it's like, so what, some new puzzle and different colored funky looking little guys 
 to shoot at with my wimpy guns, bouncing me into walls as they overrun me. I really tried to like 
 this game, but after mind numbing hours of stumbling through it, I finally just couldn't be bothered 
 to finish it. It was a chore to play. No story, none, just some robot head telling you to go here 
 or there. No Plot. Definitely unworthy of the rating that Gamespot gives it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Getahl
Rating: 7
Date: Feb 4, 2007 10:17 am PT
Review:  Scurge: Hive was fun. Who am I kidding? It is fun. It combines the space exploration I love in 
 Metroid and combines it with a potentially really interesting isometric view.
  
  However, parts of it get old really quickly. The D-Pad, long thought to be an essential part of 
 any game, quickly becomes your greatest nemesis as you attempt to line up diagonal shots and jumps, 
 only to miss enemies and platforms by a few pixels. One of my greatest pet peaves is having to 
 do something over again because you make a stupid mistake, simply because the controls did not 
 respond well enough. Well, Scurge pulls this off marvelously.
  
  Another gripe I have about the game is the simplicity of the opposition. Enemies don't change. 
 In fact, there are only about a dozen unique enemies, which represent three separate traits (mechanical, 
 biological, and energy) . Each palette swap does the same thing, only taking a shot or two more 
 to destroy than their predecessor. Strangely enough, each enemy is about as malicious as a red 
 slime out of the Dragon Warrior series, but I won't hold that against them. Also, the AI is about 
 on par with that of a lobotomized chimp. Again, it's not the enemies fault; Orbital made them that 
 way!
  
  With all this griping, one would ask, 'Does this guy even like the game?' To be quite honest, I 
 was a little underwhelmed by it initially, but it has grown on my like an electronic fungus. The 
 controls may be a bit wonky at times, but there are moments when you feel this game is right as 
 rain. For instance, despite the short-bus caliber enemy AI, bosses are actually enjoyable, and 
 in some parts, very fulfilling. Simultaneously, everything you do, whether it's exploring, finding 
 an upgrade, or blasting some hapless creature back to its base atoms is a race against time. You 
 have a specific amount of time allotted before you become fully infect with the Scurge, at which 
 point your health decreases. While this cuts continuous exploration short and forces the player 
 to find a save point, it also adds a bit of strategy to figuring out where and how to go next. 
 It can be frustrating at times, but it is far from debilitating.
  
  Ultimately, Scurge: Hive is fun, albeit a little short. It was originally (and still is) a GBA 
 game. It looks and feels GBA. Yes, the DS version of the game is a direct port over of the GBA 
 game. The only difference is the constant map on the bottom screen, which you will come to love. 
 If you can look past the wonky control issues with the D-Pad (I don't have the GBA version to test 
 how it handles) , then you've found yourself a real gem. In the end, it's a pretty decent way to 
 spend 10-15 hours of your life, if not less. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: EvilDarkGon
Rating: 7.3
Date: Dec 18, 2006 10:44 am PT
Review:  I picked up S: H at my local EB for twenty dollars used, and I've not regretted it since. Scurge 
 follows the Metroid formula of gameplay by putting you in control of a female bounty hunter wearing 
 a special armored suit that shoots energy projectiles from the arm. At first glance this game will 
 look like little more than a Metroid rip-off, but and by valid argument, I suppose it is, but it's 
 still worth playing. The premise of the game involves Jenosa Arma (the protagonist) being hired 
 by the government to infiltrate and investigate a research facility which has recently been overrun 
 by a biological menace known as the Scurge, a force capable of contaminating and controlling anything 
 - biological, mechanical, or otherwise. By the time you reach the facility the employees and inhabitants 
 are long since (presumed) dead, and it's up to you to find out why, and put a stop to the Scurge. 
 Yet again - a simple premise, but don't let the re-hashed story stop you from giving this title 
 some of your time. Unlike Metroid, the game is played in pseudo-3D, with an  
 sort of view, giving you eight directions in which to run, jump and shoot. This can at times be 
 frustrating, as aiming becomes a difficult affair, but this is hardly a fatal flaw.
  
  The game also contains an array of platforming and puzzle elements in order to keep the gameplay 
 fresh, but these are often more of a frustrating distraction, and do little to add any additional 
 substance to the game. The puzzles consist mostly of keycard hunts and dragging crates onto buttons, 
 and the platforming is flawed do to the eight-directional gameplay. You will often find yourself 
 with the path you need to take right in front of you, but unsure if it is in fact where you're 
 supposed to go, as the jump mechanic seems determined to keep you from progressing.
  
  The graphics are vivid and colorful, reminiscent of any number of Super Nintendo titles, and while 
 this can make the game feel dated, it also grants a nostalgic, classical feel. Overall, Scurge: 
 Hive is a decent, playable title, worth the time of day to anyone looking for an enjoyable time 
 waster or a new shooter to occupy their time. Some may loathe it do to it's blatant imitation of 
 Metroid, but Metroid is good for a reason. And it can be safely said that if Scurge: Hive had done 
 it first, we'd all be clawing to get our hands on it. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
