-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Sega Casino
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/ds/puzzle/segacasino/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 Healthy selection of casino parlor games.
 Odds-based games like roulette are nicely done.
 Single-card multiplayer for up to five players.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 Poker games are worthless due to weak AI.
 Not much to do except bet and wait while playing the other games.
 Presentation is bare-bones.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Jan 19, 2006
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 5.8
Critic Score: 5.6, 14 Review (s)
User Score: 6.6, 81 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Sega
Genre: Casino
Date: Q4 2005
ESRB: Teen

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
This collection of parlor games primarily includes odds-based games like roulette and keno, which 
 aren't all that involving. 

  Even though Sega Casino for the Nintendo DS includes a pair of poker variants, the main share of 
 games included on the game card are odds-based games like roulette and craps. By nature, odds-based 
 games are less interactive than skill-based games, so, in turn, this collection of casino games 
 is primarily a passive exercise. To further complicate matters, the artificial intelligence programming 
 in the two poker games is rudimentary at best. This collection is best suited for people who enjoy 
 noncompetitive, simple wagering games.  

          The game card includes 11 casino parlor games.     

  All told, the game card includes 
 11 different casino games. If you want to leave your fate purely up to the odds, you can indulge 
 in roulette, baccarat, keno, and Chuck-A-Luck. If you'd like to be able to vary your bets or get 
 out midgame but still mainly play the odds, you can test your mettle in blackjack, craps, and three 
 separate versions of video poker. Rounding out the collection are two skill-based poker variants, 
 Texas Hold 'em and seven-card stud. Play modes include free play, casino, and multiplayer. In the 
 casino mode, you start out with $1,000 and move up to higher-stakes rooms as you increase your 
 bankroll. The multiplayer mode is limited to blackjack and the two poker games, but on the upside, 
 as many as five people can link their systems together using only a single game card.  

  Clearly, the majority of games included on the card are odds-based games, which don't offer much 
 in the way of interactivity or competition. Games like roulette, keno, and Chuck-A-Luck are more 
 like lotteries, in that you throw down multiple bets and win or lose depending on the numbers that 
 turn up. Blackjack and craps are somewhat more interactive, and, in turn, more enjoyable, because 
 you can choose to continue or pull out based on the initial cards or dice that come up. The lack 
 of interactivity in these game's isn't Sega's fault. That's how they work. In fact, if you're a 
 fan of odds-based games like these, you'll be pleased with the accurate representations that are 
 included in the compilation.  

  Not so hot, unfortunately, are the skill-based poker variants, Texas Hold 'em and seven-card stud. 
 CPU opponents only bet when they have a strong hand, always, and they never bluff. Otherwise, they 
 check and make calls rather randomly. With that knowledge in hand, you quickly learn to muck your 
 cards whenever a CPU player bets and to hang in there and leech away the CPU's money the rest of 
 the time. Texas Hold 'em is extremely dull when there's no risk or psychology involved. Multiplayer 
 play is much better, obviously, because your friends are more likely to bluff and play aggressively. 

  DS fans will appreciate that Sega has made some use of the system's dual-screen and touch screen 
 features. The upper screen typically shows odds information or key animations, such as the spinning 
 of the roulette wheel or the turning of the Chuck-A-Luck basket. Meanwhile, displayed on the lower 
 touch screen are the cards, dice, and the betting surface. You can perform actions, such as betting, 
 checking, rolling, or whatever else by pressing the indicated buttons or by tapping and dragging 
 objects on the touch screen. Both control schemes are simple and intuitive.  

          Simple games, like roulette and keno, are what this collection does best. Poker, meanwhile, 
 is mostly broken.     

  Simple is also a good way to describe the compilation's overall presentation. Two utilitarian menu 
 screens list the available play modes and game types. After making your selections, you'll find 
 yourself staring at the playing surface, which shows the cards, bet amounts, and any other information 
 that's pertinent to that particular game. The only viewpoint is top-down, so you can't see the 
 surrounding environment or other players. For the most part, the tables and props are colorful 
 and the cards and text are large and easy to see. There isn't much in the way of animation, aside 
 from cards being dealt and the movement of props like the roulette wheel or the dice in the various 
 dice games. Accompanying all of the so-called action is a looping bit of elevator music and a modest 
 smattering of sound effects that go along with the cards being dealt, the dice being rolled, and 
 so on.  

  Sega Casino is neither spectacular nor particularly bad. There just isn't much substance to it. 
 It's enjoyable in brief bursts, though, particularly if you enjoy odds-based games like blackjack, 
 craps, and video poker.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (5 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: phyconess
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 25, 2007 10:11 pm PT
Review:  This game is a lot of great, clean fun. Has to be one of the best ways to gamble. Playing these 
 games feels completely real, but there is no worries of losing all of your money. Once you have 
 reached a stage, if you lose all of your money, you will automatically just start over with the 
 amount required for that level. I love the broad range of different games, and of different stages 
 where you can play:
  
  There can be up to three player IDs. This is fun, because you can continually challenge yourself 
 to achieve the same level.
  
  Each player has three levels that they can play on. I like this, because as you gain money, you 
 gain a level, which will open up more games, as well as more stages of games; where you can start 
 with higher bets.
  
  Although I don't really play all of the games that there are, I like the broad range. A lot of 
 casino type games have just 3 or 4 different ones. So having more options is a great change. I 
 highly recommend this game. It's a great way to fill time, when you have some, but not enough time 
 to really get into a game with a lot of substance. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Raijen
Rating: 4.9
Date: Apr 7, 2007 7:44 pm PT
Review:  I picked this up awhile back in the bargin bin of my local electronics store, and if I had paid 
 more than $10 Canadian i'd have felt ripped off.
  
  Apart from the odds-based casino games, the main aspect to the game are the poker variants, and 
 unfortunatey for the games value the AI for these components are woefully inept.
  
  The only partially redeeming feature of this is the local multiplayer (there is no WiFi option) . 
 If you've got poker fans that also happen to have DS's the download-play can whittle away some 
 time, but the GBA quality graphics and sound tend to grate after a short time.
  
  In summary if you can pick it up for 5-10 dollars then feel free to grab it, elsewhse give this 
 game a pass. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BAMFactor
Rating: 5.7
Date: Jul 15, 2006 3:44 pm PT
Review:  I love Casinos, Las Vegas, and gambling. The idea of being able to take the experience along wherever 
 I go, on my Nintendo DS, was very exciting. That is, until I played for a while and realized that 
 just too much is missing here for it to be a real "casino" experience.
  
  It's true that you need to win a certain amount to "unlock" modes. This is all right, something 
 to motivate you to win, as far as I'm concerned, but the reward just isn't that great once you 
 get it. I managed to unlock everything and still feel like the game is lacking.
  
  I enjoy playing, as a distraction, for a little while, but it's nothing I would sink any serious 
 time into - the limited selection of games gets old quickly, and the "atmosphere" really isn't 
 there. You can't walk around the casino, and you just see the cards or table. Leaves you feeling 
 empty.
  
  I would only play this if I needed to play a portable game. At home, I would definitely turn on 
 the PC and play a game like Hoyle's Casino instead. There's a lot more "atmosphere" and many more 
 games to choose from.
  
  This game could have been a lot better with more atmosphere and more games. I've read that these 
 days in Las Vegas slot machines have more floor space than any of the table games. Amazing that 
 the single most popular casino game is missing here. A game called "chuk a luck" is included - 
 something I've never heard of before even though I'm a frequent traveller to Las Vegas, but no 
 slots? I'd like to see more types of poker, too, such as Carribbean Stud, Pai Gow, or Let It Ride. 
 You won't find them here.
  
  I'm considering getting a PSP just to have a more complete casino game in portable form, since 
 I enjoy these types of games so much. Sega Casino offers acceptable Blackjack and a few other games 
 but don't expect to find real casino atmosphere or a huge selection of games here, even after you 
 unlock everything. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rastamandaz
Rating: 7.8
Date: Jun 23, 2006 5:57 am PT
Review:  Sega Casino Cheat
  
  Never Loose Cash
  If you are playing (any game) and you loose quickly turn off the Nintendo DS and start again.
 
  
  You will notice that your money hasnt decreased.
  
  This game is very good if your into playing cards, it has many card games to play and is one addictive 
 game.
  
  Using the stylus pen even makes the game feel like your at a casino placing your chips onto the 
 table.
  
  Its even great if you want to play with your friends wirelessly, gives the game more challenge 
 and fun.
  
  I would definately give this game a good rating, it is one of the best games ive played for the 
 Nintendo DS. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: zcds
Rating: 7.3
Date: Jan 24, 2006 1:51 pm PT
Review:  This pack brings all kinds of casino games to the ds. It's to bad it's around $30. If it was $20 
 it would be a better deal but moving on. You get a lot of games for your buck. Black jack, poker, craps, and 
 many more. It's a lot like the crappy $5 games you can get at the market only with more. There is 
 some AI problems like not going in your favor. Some multi player would of been nice or even wi 
 fi. Or even a casino sim that would be cool. In the end if your to young to go to casino or not 
 near a real casino this is a good thing to play till then. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
