-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Sega Superstars Tennis
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/ds/sports/segasuperstarstennis/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 Characters, courts, and music based on classic Sega games.
 Many minigames combine tennis with the gameplay of another game.
 Large number of different minigames.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 Actual tennis is pretty average.
 Characters are tiny and the ball is sometimes hard to see.
 Many of the characters are D-listers.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Mar 25, 2008
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 6.5
Critic Score: 6.5, 18 Review (s)
User Score: 7.0, 88 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Sega
Developer: Sumo Digital
Genre: Tennis
Date: Mar 18, 2008
ESRB: Everyone

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
The tennis is merely average, but Sega Superstars Tennis' challenges and minigames are creatively 
 done and a lot of fun. 

  After Sonic's recent lackluster performance in Mario &amp; Sonic at the Olympic Games, you'd be 
 forgiven for having low expectations for Sega's next sports game to feature mascots: Sega Superstars 
 Tennis. The characters aren't all A-listers and the tennis isn't great, but the game's interesting 
 court designs, minigames, and classic Sega tunes make for a decent package.  

  Sega Superstars Tennis features 16 characters from classic Sega games. Each player is rated for 
 speed, control, power, spin, or all-around ability. The eight characters that are unlocked from 
 the start include: Sonic, AiAi from Super Monkey Ball, Nights, Ulala from Space Channel Five, Beat 
 from Jet Set Radio, Amigo from Samba de Amigo, Tails, and Dr. Eggman. The unlockable characters 
 aren't quite as interesting and mostly consist of lesser characters from the same games, though 
 Gillius from Golden Axe and Alex Kidd are worthy additions to the lineup. The courts on which you 
 play and the music you hear while you play are inspired by the game's characters and are sure to 
 please anyone who has enjoyed Sega's games over the years.  

           Admit it, you've always wondered who would win this epic showdown.      

  The characters, 
 levels, music, and even some of the gameplay from these classic franchises are put to good use 
 in game mode. This mode is made up of 10 different areas, each of which is based on a well-known 
 Sega game. The roster includes Super Monkey Ball, Puyo Pop Fever, Samba De Amigo, Sonic the Hedgehog, 
 Nights, Space Channel Five, ChuChu Rocket, and more. Each is filled with ten minigames that mix 
 tennis with gameplay from the franchise on which the area is based.  

  Many of these missions are really fun, and some of them are especially creative. In the Virtua 
 Squad minigames, you shoot (aim the ball at) the bad-guy targets that pop up while trying to avoid 
 hitting the civilians, just as you would in Virtua Cop. In Puyo Pop Fever, you're essentially playing 
 the actual puzzle game and clearing the Puyo with tennis balls. ChuChu Rocket is also a lot of 
 fun. Just as you did in the Dreamcast game, you have to lead the mice to their rockets by changing 
 the direction of the arrows on the level and avoiding cats -- only this time you change the arrows 
 by hitting them with tennis balls. It's amazing how well some of these games mesh with tennis, 
 and the ones that are done well are really a lot of fun. The only knock against these stages is 
 that the game doesn't do much in the way of explaining the gameplay, so if you've never played 
 ChuChu Rocket before, you're going to be clueless as to how to proceed here. All of the missions 
 in game mode are not created equal. The Jet Set Radio stage has the look of the game, but the tagging 
 minigames are frustrating and uninteresting. Running around the court while collecting rings in 
 Sonic's stage isn't too exciting, either. But even with these issues, game mode is an entertaining 
 and enjoyable way to play tennis.  

  It's a good thing that game mode is fun, given that the actual tennis in Sega Superstars Tennis 
 is merely average. You'll have to play singles and doubles, however, if you want to unlock any 
 of the hidden characters. The simple controls mean that it's easy to pick up and play, but you'll 
 have mastered the gameplay in a matter of minutes. The controls are tight, but lobs, drop shots, 
 and net play are ineffective, which means that you'll spend your time hitting from the baseline, 
 trying to run your opponent back and forth from left to right until he or she can't get to a shot. 
 Each character has a superstar ability that can be activated once the star below the character 
 begins to flash, but these abilities aren't much help and serve only to interrupt play. There is 
 a distinct difference between the different play styles of the characters, which makes for some 
 variety in how you attack each opponent, but don't expect too much challenge from the artificial 
 intelligence. It's generally fairly easy.  

  You can play a Sonic versus Sonic match via game sharing, but each player must have their own cartridge 
 to play with any different character, on a different court, or for doubles play. Sega Superstars 
 Tennis gameplay is fun, but it's so simple that you probably won't want to play multiplayer, given 
 that the points can go on forever. However, if you do play against a friend, you'll find that local 
 multiplayer runs well.  

           Some of the minigames do a great job combining the gameplay of their source material with 
 tennis.      

  You won't be amazed by Sega Superstars Tennis' visuals, but it's a decent-looking game that makes 
 good use of its source material. The courts and their surroundings resemble the games on which 
 they were based; they've been scaled back so much for the DS that they lack personality and don't 
 quite do the original game justice. The characters aren't particularly detailed, but they're easily 
 recognizable and are nicely animated. Sonic will spin to get to hard-to-reach shots, Beat will 
 skate around the court, and Nights hovers just above the court while gliding to and fro. It's too 
 bad that the game doesn't make better use of the DS's dual screens. The bottom screen is only used 
 to display scores while the action is relegated to the top screen. This means that the players 
 are tiny and the lack of detail sometimes makes it difficult to see the ball. Unlike the console 
 versions, which had four songs for each court in the game, the DS version only has one. This is 
 a bit of a letdown because so many of the games featured here had great music.  

  If you're in the mood to play traditional tennis, then you'll want to look elsewhere. But if you 
 want a lighthearted tennis game, enjoy minigames, and have a special place in your heart for the 
 glory days of Sega, then you'll probably find something to like in Sega Superstars Tennis.     
 
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (4 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: -CANUCK-
Rating: 6
Date: Jan 8, 2009 10:17 am PT
Review:  Sega Superstar Tennis : It's a tennis game with assorted Sega characters. Or at least the Dreamcast-era 
 Sega characters.
  
  Story : I don't think there is much of a story here other than the story of a bunch of big-eyed 
 cartoon characters getting together to play tennis. Okay, here's a storyline, one executive at 
 Sega says to another "hey! Nintendo makes tennis games with their franchise characters. We already 
 make tennis games. Lets make a tennis game with our franchise characters!" Who says Sega does what 
 Nintendon't?
  
  Sega Superstar Tennis allows players to pit Sonic against Tails in a dream battle of tennis, or 
 at least a doubles match of Sonic and Tails against Dr RobEggman and miscellaneous. Most of the 
 characters in the game seem to be of the cute, family-friendly variety, including the inflatable 
 doll from Space Channel 5, the methed up skater from Jet Grind Radio and most of the monkey characters 
 throughout Sega's history. You can unlock the dwarf from Golden Axe, but that's about the most 
 interesting hidden character, otherwise your bonus unlockables are clones like Shadow The Hedgehog 
 or evil NiGHTS. 
  
  I guess what I'd like to say is, if you're going to go with an absurd concept such as a mascot 
 tennis game, then run with it! Let me play as Vectorman or the Comix Zone dude or the vigilantes 
 from Streets of Rage, the Sega games people look back on fondly. Get that guy from Shenmue to open 
 matches by saying in his trademark monotone voice "I am going to play a game of tennis" to team 
 with Shinobi against the dude from Splatterhouse and a Panzer Dragoon dragon flying around wielding 
 a small tennis racket. 
  
  There's a novel mini-game collection that divulges in the fan-service territory that'd you wish 
 the rest of the game attempted. You have these mini-game sets based on obvious picks like Sonic 
 The Hedgehog and Super Monkey Ball that involve collecting rings, but you also get sets based on 
 House of The Dead, Space Harrier and Virtua Cop. There's some novelty in watching a guy with a 
 tennis racket run through a Space Harrier stage smacking balls into giant stone heads and dodging 
 pixilated fireballs. The games aren't great, but they are mildly amusing and work in a pinch if 
 you're trying to kill time on a bus.
  
  And I guess there's a tennis part of the Sega Superstar Tennis game. The tennis here is very basic; 
 you have a button for slices and topspin swings, and otherwise the game figures out the rest for 
 the player. I stand that one of the strengths of the Mario Tennis games is that they're so basic 
 with the controls that someone who's never touched a controller before could jump right into an 
 exciting four player doubles match. On the most basic level, the gameplay here is of the same level 
 of accessibility, and I can imagine most gamers being able to pick up on this game and smack a 
 ball in Tails' face. The one single twist is that each character has a little star meter that fills 
 up during play and, when maxed out, enables players to trigger a 3 second cutscene. After this 
 annoyance, every shot you throw back at your opponents will curve around or go in some kind of 
 weird pattern before hitting the ground (the pattern varies between each character) . The kicker 
 with these super attacks is that the only genuine way to respond to these attacks is to have actually 
 spent a bit of time playing against each character, which hampers the whole idea of the game being 
 accessible to non-players. On top of that, I've had games where three AI players on the court all 
 decided to trigger their super attacks in succession of each other in a conspiracy to completely 
 kill the flow of the game. 
  
  However, the multiplayer aspect is kind of hindered by the fact that this is the DS version I'm 
 looking at. With a single copy of the game, you're restricted to playing a Sonic vs. Sonic singles 
 game with another DS owner, and to play otherwise requires the other players to own the gameand 
 well my personal philosophy on multi-card play is that it can screw off; I can't be made to try 
 to sell fellow DS owners on buying a game. Now, when 3 other owners of Sega Superstar Tennis aren't 
 around to have a good doubles match with (which is all of the time) , then you can play a series 
 of "tournaments". Calling these tournaments feels like a farce as you'll always play against the 
 same opponents in the same order, and the AI tends to be a breeze. 
  
  In the absence of Mario Tennis, I'd wager that the console versions of Sega Superstar Tennis would 
 make a semi-decent party game. This Nintendo DS version, on the other hand, has significantly less 
 value, other than presenting the chance to kill a few seconds of time between bus stops killing 
 zombies with tennis balls. Only pick this one up if you find it in a bargain bin for pocket change.
 
  
  Pros: Except for accessing the Options screen, there is absolutely no forced use of the touch screen!
 
  
  Cons: Sub-par audio.
  
  3 stars
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Alex41790
Rating: 6.5
Date: Jul 30, 2008 5:59 pm PT
Review:  To start off, let everyone know that Nintendo hand-helds have always been a favorite of mine. As 
 a little kid I can remember playing all of the original Pokemon series but there is one game that 
 sticks out in my mind. It was Mario Tennis but it wasn't for the GBA even though they have it now, 
 it was for the original Gameboy. So when I went to Best Buy and was looking for a game I decided 
 to look for something similar to that. I came upon Sega Superstars Tennis and figured, "hey, what 
 have I got to lose? It's possible that this game could very well be the new and improved Mario 
 Tennis." So I picked it up and brought it home. Much to my dismay however, it turns out to be very 
 different from Mario Tennis.
  
  The thing that I feel is crucial for a game such as Sega Superstar Tennis is a story mode because 
 you need something to draw the player into the game, into spending countless hours on the game, 
 putting it down only because they know they have to wake up in several hours and they need to be 
 able to function. This, is where SST fell short. It contains no form of a story mode, only missions 
 mode that quickly tires the game. Even on tournament mode its the same old same old score activate 
 your power score, win the game and advance.
  
  However overall the tennis playing isn't to bad. The fact that you can activate a kind of "super-mode" 
 brings a difficulty factor to the game. It can either help you out of those tight spots where your 
 down 45-love and you need the game. Or, it could play against you, your opponent activating it 
 when you just wish it was a fair game. However the fact that it only lasts one point there is no 
 real disadvantage/advantage to it.
  
  SST is a mediocre game with mediocre content, neither being out of this world or something you'd 
 never want to consider buying. If you need escape from those hardcore pokemon battles or maybe 
 a console duel, this can definitely consume the time you put away for it. However the fact that 
 it gets dull after some time, its not going to be something you spend those all nighters with your 
 friends on. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: zikimaru88
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jul 1, 2008 10:58 am PT
Review:  So, we have a blue hedgehog, a monkey with ears that look like princess Leia's hair, a mentally 
 disturbed fat guy, a gay person with bug eyes, a weird dancer with pink hair, and a robotic monkey. 
 So what do we have here? SEGA SUPERSTARS TENNIS!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!! Sega superstars tennis is a 
 tennis game with powerups and different old school Sega games minigames! Whoop de frigin du. Im 
 joking, this game is kinda sorta a wanabe Mario tennis but still is fun.
  
  
  Gameplay: A bunch of Sega stars playing tennis. Thats basicly all there is to it. Use can use the 
 d pad or the touch screen to move, and honestly, I prefer the d pad. 
  
  Graphics: Pretty good, the courts look beautiful but the characters look kinda weird zoomed up 
 but all in all, good graphics from an aerial point of view.
  
  Sound: Id play this game for hours just hearing the ball go back and forth and back and forth, 
 so about the music, probrably the best the DS has seen in a while.
  
  Unlockables and Extra Content: Pretty good character roster with at least 7 or 8 characters to 
 unlock. Also you can unlock different courts too. The minigames will keep you hooked for about 
 an hour or so, and they are actually pretty fun.
  
  Replay Value: Pretty Low but still a fun game
  
  Final Comments: Actuall pretty fun and I enjoyed 
 it but i brainlessly bought it at Target for $30 which isnt worth it when i couldve gone to Gamestop 
 and bought it for half price, Oh well. Anyway, the character roster is very questionable, who has 
 even heard of Ulala, Beat, Pudding, Alex Kidd, and Gilius. I only know Gilius because i bought 
 the Sega Genesis plug n' play for my tv and its awesome. Anyway, cool gameplay, weird characters.
 
  
  
  
  
  
  
  zikimaru88 signing out 
::::::

::::::
UserName: siasat9077
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 1, 2008 4:50 am PT
Review:  Introduction
  
  Sega got it this time in terms of sports, they are also giving name to Sonic the Hedgehog a "Sporty 
 Man" like Mario. Before Mario is the one who plays tennis but now look, Sonic is the one playing 
 it. We cannot wait that's why Sega made a tennis game because Nintendo would not make one for us 
 because of Mario Hoops' quite failure. Sonic is back and back with a bunch of other Sega Characters 
 all of them playing Tennis.
  
  The game can be either played using the d-pad or the stylus itself. For Beginners I recommend using 
 the d-pad because stylus mode is very difficult. Do not worry my friend you can change controls 
 in the option menu. Of course Sega also added new features like Super Star wherein you can use 
 it once you already filled the star meter, well it is not a meter but It is something like a Star 
 under your toes the larger it is the better. The Super Star power is uniquely different from each 
 other that make each character special indeed. The Super Star power is when you shot back the ball 
 (Cannot be used when performing a serve) and the Super Star power is already activated the ball 
 goes in a different direction it may be Zig Zag or a very confusing one. Sometimes you might be 
 shock if the referee calls a score for you opponent when playing doubles because you might want 
 to research the real life rules of tennis in doubles.
  
  Very bad but this game do not contain any story but this is filled with tennis related mini games. 
 Integrating the old Sega games with tennis is just spicing up things and quite adding certain enjoyment. 
 There a lot of Unlockable mini-games too bad though it have a tennis mix-up.
  
  Graphics are very well designed. They do not show any major lag, but the ball may look like lagging 
 but it is indeed not. Good thing that even when characters perform their Super Star power and their 
 picture become enlarged they do not get pixelated at all. The Animation is just very great that 
 makes this game look like Wii graphics.
  
  Sounds are just ok not bad, not good. Every time you smash the ball it gives off a real tennis 
 sound which I really enjoyed. The bad thing is it seems that the other sound effects are very bad 
 and the Background Music seems like very common but you will enjoy the Background music every time 
 you win but do not expect the Final Fantasy tune huh.
  
  You can play this game for a long time because it really takes time to complete all the characters 
 and at first it also takes quite 30 minutes to master the controls because there no tutorials. 
 You can also play the mini games for a long time and you can play the old Sega games on your very 
 own DS by getting High score.
  
  The game has a good multiplayer my cousin and I first tried this in the single-card download play 
 mode which allows both players to battle each other in a singles match but with limited capabilities 
 of the download play both players must use Sonic. So I tried to convince him to buy this and gladly, 
 he bought it! We played Multi-card play and we can now play in doubles or singles and using any 
 character we have unlocked. The bad thing is no Wi-fi at all.
  
  The starting characters here consist of Sonic, AiAi, Beat, Ulala, Amigo, Tails, Dr. Eggman and 
 Nights. You can unlock the other characters here by competing in the tournament mode. You might 
 ask who are these characters that seem unfamiliar, well they are from the other Sega's games like 
 AiAi he is from the game Super Monkey Ball. This may sound like from Mario Hoops but with combined 
 Square and Nintendo's characters.
  
  Playing this maybe boring and hard at first but when you master it and the controls it may seem 
 and it can be very fun. It will take some time to master all the controls because there are other 
 hidden shots that can be done by doing some button combination that is why D-pad is very important.
 
  
  Conclusion and Overall Enjoyment
  
  Every game has its own Pros and Cons this game too. We must accept the fact now that Mario stopped 
 playing Tennis but do not worry Sonic replaced him but Sega still cannot match up Nintendo's Classic 
 Mario Tennis.
  
  For everyone out there asking if to buy this or not. I will very much say that you but this if 
 you are a fan of Sonic or a Tennis fan out there but if you do not like the mechanics of Sega Super 
 Star Tennis or It may seem to you very boring and repetitive you might avoid this. Still I recommend 
 buying this with a lot of unlockables and capabilities.
  
  This review was originally written for gamefaqs. com, a CNET company with the same account, me. 
 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
