-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Shaun White Snowboarding
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/ds/sports/shaunwhitesnowboarding/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 Excellent control scheme is immediately accessible.
 Good variety of challenge goals.
 Some rockin' tunes on the soundtrack .
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 Lack of challenge makes races rather ho-hum.
 Decal customization system is poorly implemented.
 Takes only about four hours or so to complete.
 Shortened versions of songs that repeat too often .
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Dec 18, 2008
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 6.5
Critic Score: 6.4, 6 Review (s)
User Score: 6.1, 14 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Ubisoft
Genre: Snowboarding
Date: Nov 16, 2008
ESRB: Everyone 10+

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
It hits a few rough patches on the slopes, but sweet controls help make this simple snowboarding 
 game enjoyable. 

  Shaun White Snowboarding for the DS plays to the strengths of Nintendo's handheld, offering a control 
 scheme that makes excellent use of the touch screen. When the game is at its best, you can get 
 lost in the chilly rush of leaping, tricking, and grinding your way down the slopes. Unfortunately, 
 the other aspects of the game don't always live up to the potential of the controls, but despite 
 a few rough spots, this is still a mostly enjoyable portable snowboarding experience.  

  The controls here are easy to learn and easy to master. You start off with an outline of a snowboard 
 on the touch screen. By holding the stylus on the lower part of the board, you'll go slower but 
 have much tighter control of your turns. If you hold the tip of the stylus against the higher part 
 of the board, you'll lean in, increasing your speed but limiting your turning ability. A quick 
 flick down and then up will make you leap into the air, at which point you can perform tricks just 
 by scratching in any direction. Those looking for a more technical snowboarding game may be disappointed 
 by the wicked ease with which you can pull off insane tricks, but for those who don't mind seeing 
 realism thrown to the wind, watching your rider wildly flip and spin in conjunction with the patterns 
 you trace on the touch screen can be joyously liberating.  

           Like just about everything else in Shaun White Snowboarding, grinding rails is easy but 
 fun.      

  You can also do grabs and tweaks as you trick by pressing the control pad (or face buttons for 
 lefties) and shoulder buttons, and as long as you stop twisting an instant before your board comes 
 back into contact with the earth, you'll land safely and get an instant speed boost for your efforts. 
 Grinding on rails is fun, too; doing so brings up a nifty little meter that sways to the left or 
 right, indicating your balance. To maintain it, you'll need to compensate by swinging the tip of 
 the stylus to the left or right of the board. In every respect, the controls feel natural and immediately 
 accessible, so much so that you hardly need to think about them at all. They disappear into the 
 experience and let you focus entirely on the action of speeding down the slopes.  

  To advance through the game's four mountains and eventually race against Shaun White himself at 
 his own secret spot, you'll need to collect passes, and you do that by winning races and challenges. 
 Races pit you against three AI riders, but as long as you stick to a decent racing line and pull 
 off tricks now and then to keep up your speed, you'll never have a problem leaving them in your 
 snowy dust. The simple act of riding and tricking your way down the mountain is fun in and of itself, 
 but the consistent lack of difficulty saps the races of some excitement. Challenges are more varied 
 and interesting, and you can try to complete as many available challenges in a single run as you'd 
 like. They range from the straightforward and easy, such as trying to score a certain number of 
 trick points in a pass down the mountain, to the more involved and challenging, such as tricking 
 off of a specific landmark or collecting all of the letters in the name Shaun.  

  Unfortunately, Shaun White Snowboarding doesn't start with its best foot forward. The first mountain, 
 in Park City, Utah, keeps things a bit too basic, with lots of long, slow straightaways and few 
 opportunities for big air. The course is also covered in a white fog that limits your visibility, 
 and when you're in the air, the flat white textures of the terrain can sometimes make it difficult 
 to tell how far off of the ground you are and consequently how much time you have left to pull 
 off tricks. Thankfully, the later three mountains don't suffer from the same visibility issues, 
 and they have more varied color schemes that not only make them more visually interesting, but 
 also make it much easier to gauge your distance from the ground while soaring. They're also more 
 exciting to ride, with plenty of big jumps, tight curves, trees to slalom around, and halfpipes 
 that let you perform trick after glorious trick.  

  There's no difference in the abilities of the selectable riders, but as you progress from mountain 
 to mountain, you'll unlock new boards that offer slightly different bonuses in the areas of speed, 
 tricks, and balance. However, the overwhelming factor in determining your board's performance is 
 in the three decals you choose to slap on it before each event. As you race and challenge your 
 way down the mountains, you'll occasionally collect decals, and each of the 42 available decals 
 carries with it bonuses to one or more of the three performance categories. Keeping your eyes peeled 
 for decals as you're speeding down the mountain is fun, and the ability to customize your board 
 to suit an event is great, but the decal system is still pretty annoying in its implementation. 
 For one thing, of the 42 possible decals that you can slap on your board, only five are displayed 
 onscreen at any one time, and you've got to cycle through them all to find the best ones for your 
 next event, which can slow you down when you're eager to just hop into the action. It's equally 
 frustrating that you can't just customize one board for high-speed races and one for trick-heavy 
 challenges. Any decals you apply to one board are automatically applied to all of your boards, 
 and given that you'll be doing a lot of back-and-forth between races and challenges, you'll probably 
 also be doing a lot of decal scanning and sticking before most events.  

           If you're not leaving your opponents way behind you, you're doing something wrong.    
   

  The visuals in Shaun White Snowboarding are a bit blocky, and you'll sometimes see some pop-in 
 of distant mountain walls, but the animation is smooth throughout, and the backgrounds give each 
 mountain a distinctly different sense of place. The sounds of your board carving up the mountain 
 are fine, but they take a backseat to the music. The soundtrack includes songs by Incubus, Sweet, 
 and Black Rebel Motorcycle Club, among others, and the tunes are great for rocking out on the slopes. 
 Unfortunately, the songs are also severely truncated and often fade out just as they're about to 
 get going. Even what is arguably the best song of all time, "Rock Box" by Run-DMC, gets old fast 
 when you hear just the first 90 seconds over and over again.  

  You'll breeze through Shaun White's four mountains in about four hours or so. If you have friends 
 who own the game, you can also play Race or Trick Point competitions for up to four players, and 
 though these modes don't bring anything new to the table, they work well enough and can be fun 
 for a bit. Shaun White Snowboarding for the DS is simple and easy, but its accessible control scheme 
 also makes it enjoyable enough that you may find yourself coming back to it whenever you need a 
 quick snowboarding fix on the go.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (1 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: Gatcho
Rating: 7
Date: Dec 11, 2008 6:07 pm PT
Review:  I'm no snowboarding fan so when I heard of this title I wasn't really affected by the person's 
 name that they used for this game. I was however wondering if this is just another Tony Hawk on 
 snow wannabe or just a Snow Board Kids rip-off. When I played the game however, I felt like the 
 developers didn't really want to create anything new. Everything in this game has been done before, 
 but it was done right in my opinion to give the game a bit of an edge from previous snowboarding 
 titles like SBK.
  
  The game is pretty simple and straightforward. You pick a character, then you join challenge runs 
 that will ask you to perform things that will enable you to win passes that will later allow you 
 to enter races. The only thing that is somewhat new here is that you cannot accomplish every single 
 challenge in a single go since the slope branches out into different sections. The game allows 
 you to pick the direction that you want to go through depending on the challenge/s that you want 
 to accomplish. Gather enough passes and you'll be able to join all the races. Winning will cause 
 you to open up locked maps, items, and characters ... you know the drill right?
  
  If you have played any Tony Hawk games before, this game should be pretty familiar. There are rails 
 and ramps along with the usual amount of obstacles that you can perform tricks or slam on to (ala 
 SBK animation when you hit a tree) . Movements are controlled via the touchscreen but they made 
 it so simple that you will get the hang of it only after a few minutes of gameplay. Performing 
 tough/combo tricks rewards you with a small speed boost, while the rest simply gives you the usual 
 additional points. The game doesn't force you to follow a single line on the slope, they tend to 
 branch out into multiple areas and exploring rewards you with additional board decals etc. There 
 are also add-ons that you can attach to your board that will help you get a speed boost, perform 
 tricks better, and have better balance. And speaking of speed boost, I think the only time that 
 you'll really get a good sense of speed is when you acquire one. Other that that, the game feels 
 somewhat on the slow side. Giving the snowboarders a little bit more speed could have made the 
 game a bit more exciting.
  
  Graphically the game looks pretty smooth but the characters are cartoonish. They tend to stick 
 out but not bad enough to make it look like they don't belong in the game (ex: Zombie BBQ) . Drawing 
 distance is nice, and you will probably never experience problems like unable to take a turn or 
 ride a ramp because the game displayed 'em a bit too late (like with some racing games) .
  
  The sound effects department is okay but the game's soundtrack is excellent. It can somehow affect 
 how you'll play the game because the music kinda gets you going and gives the same effect as ... 
 say ... Need for Speed (specifically Most Wanted) .
  
  All-in-all, this game is pretty good. The developers obviously didn't want to experiment and offer 
 anything new with the game. And I think to some extent they have succeeded. Hopefully, the next 
 version of this game will feature additional modes to satisfy SBK or Mario Kart fans who want to 
 use power-ups and throw stuff on their opponents. A little bit of violence like trying to push 
 your opponent off his board might be a good addition. They need not force that into the game, but 
 an option for those who wants those kind of things is a good idea so they can attract more people 
 to purchase their game.
  
  .: My reviews are only as good as everyone else's. Take every single one of them with a grain of 
 salt:. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
