-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Shrek the Third
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/ds/action/shrek3/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 Juggling three different characters and their abilities is interesting.
 Controls make good use of the touch screen and microphone.
 Impressive 3D graphics.
 Donkey reading the story scenes aloud is totally cool.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 The same enemies and obstacles are recycled constantly.
 Co-op multiplayer requires each player to have a cartridge.
 Music and sound effects are tolerable at best.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: May 25, 2007
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 6.8
Critic Score: 7.0, 15 Review (s)
User Score: 6.4, 27 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Activision
Developer: Vicarious Visions
Genre: Action
Date: May 2, 2007
ESRB: Everyone

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Juggling the different characters' abilities is interesting, though some may not like the repetition 
 or the game's gradual pace. 

  Shrek the Third for the Nintendo DS isn't an action adventure game in the traditional sense. Instead 
 of jumping between platforms and hacking away at enemies with one character, you have to jockey 
 control between three different characters and put their individual skills to use to help all three 
 characters reach the exit at the end of each level. Alternatively, you can convince two of your 
 friends to buy the game and play through it with each of you controlling one character. The levels 
 tend to recycle the same enemies and obstacles, but managing the characters as if they were pieces 
 in a puzzle game is strangely pleasant. The game also displays some attractive 3D graphics and 
 makes good use of the system's touch screen and microphone features.  

          Characters can move as a group, but you'll usually have to split them up to put their individual 
 abilities to use.     

  Each level is basically a giant puzzle that you gradually guide the characters through. As you 
 walk along, you'll encounter doors that need to be unlocked, rickety elevators that need to be 
 activated, and any number of switches and levers placed in spots that only a specific character 
 can reach. You'll also run across knights, witches, demonic trees, and other monsters that you 
 can dispatch using any of the characters' attacks. Shrek can smash through walls and floors, Puss 
 can jump and crawl, and Artie can throw his shield at switches or use it to float across rivers. 
 Meanwhile, Donkey is holed up in Merlin's shack watching the action unfold through a crystal ball. 
 He contributes help from afar in the form of magic that you can call on to disarm enemies and levitate 
 objects. The general idea is to keep your life and magic meters from draining completely as you 
 guide the individual characters past their intended obstacles and through the different parts of 
 the level, joining together as a group only until the next fork splits the characters up or when 
 you eventually bring everyone to the exit.  

  Movement is handled with the directional pad or buttons. All other actions are initiated by interacting 
 with the touch screen or blowing into the microphone. You can target enemies on the lower screen 
 simply by tapping them, control the angle of Puss' jumps and Artie's shield tosses by flicking 
 the stylus across the touch screen, and use Donkey's wind spell to attack airborne enemies or propel 
 Artie across the water by blowing into the microphone. The game will occasionally misinterpret 
 your input, but not so frequently that you'd want to trade the flexibility the touch screen and 
 microphone give you for button-based controls that wouldn't give you as much control over the characters' 
 abilities.  

  When you first start the game, you'll hold the system so that the screens are side by side and 
 watch a story sequence unfold as if someone were reading to you from a book of fairy tales. The 
 story is told from Donkey's point of view. An actor that sounds remarkably like Eddie Murphy narrates 
 the text as the pages flip by, and the characters in the drawings sometimes react to what's being 
 said with cute gestures. You'll see a few more of these story sequences as you go through the game. 
 When you're playing, however, you hold the system as you normally would, with one screen on top 
 of the other. Your characters' nearby surroundings are displayed on the bottom screen, while the 
 upper screen shows what's directly above you. Movement happens on a two-dimensional plane, but 
 the world of Far, Far Away and the characters are brought to life with richly detailed 3D graphics. 
 As you go through each level, you'll notice cute touches, such as flowing rivers, falling leaves, 
 and fluttering insects. Smaller enemies aren't all that impressive, but larger ones span both screens. 
 Character movements and transitions are also exceptionally fluid. Unfortunately, the audio accompanying 
 the action is merely tolerable. The cheesy medieval music that plays during each level is tacky 
 instead of whimsical, and the sound effects consist of some unremarkable noises and a few brief 
 vocal comments.  

          The gameplay may be a bit dull, but the graphics are quite sharp.     

  While the first 
 few levels take only a couple of minutes to clear, later levels will have you backtracking all 
 over the place and investing anywhere from 10 to 20 minutes. Clocking in at 16 levels, the game 
 should take most people four or five hours to finish. Whether you feel like sticking it out to 
 the end will depend mainly on your expectations going in. The same obstacles and switches are recycled 
 constantly. So, even though the controls are clever and the levels gradually grow more convoluted, 
 you encounter the same situations and perform the same actions over and over. Fans of the puzzle 
 genre probably won't mind that sort of repetition, but anyone expecting a more dynamic experience 
 may feel boredom start to set in after completing five or six levels. Some people may also be bothered 
 by the choppy flow of the single-player mode, which is a result of having to wait a couple of seconds 
 for the screen to change perspectives every time you switch characters. You can eliminate those 
 pauses by playing cooperatively with one or two other people, since each player controls his or 
 her own character, but the problem there is that each player has to have a cartridge to get a co-op 
 game going. It's hard to imagine three friends all buying their own cartridges when the multiplayer 
 mode doesn't offer anything different from the solo mode, apart from the ability to control the 
 characters independently.  

  Someone looking for the usual sort of action romp may end up disappointed with the Nintendo DS 
 rendition of Shrek the Third. However, if you're a fan of the Shrek movies and think you might 
 enjoy a more cerebral take on the adventure genre, then you may end up digging what the game has 
 to offer. Just make sure to give yourself a break every few levels to minimize the fatigue that 
 can result from constantly encountering the same puzzles.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (1 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: HaggisGhillie
Rating: 6
Date: Jan 8, 2008 11:37 am PT
Review:  When I first started playing this game, I was intrigued. I typically like multi-character puzzle 
 games. I fondly remember the Lost Vikings game on the PC where each of three characters had special 
 abilities that need to be combined to solve each level. I also thought about Lemmings, and the 
 different specializations that had to be utilized to complete each level. Shrek III is similar, 
 but just more boring. Each character has different abilities and in a few levels, the character's 
 abilities must be used in interesting ways and in specific sequences in order to get through the 
 game. However, most levels are pretty straight-forward and require just a minimum of thought to 
 figure out what you need to do. This is a great game for my 8 year old -- she's just getting the 
 mental capacity to use logic to figure out puzzles like this. This game is a nice way to introduce 
 youngsters to this genre of games. However, it was sheer determination to finish that made me complete 
 the game. I certainly wasn't looking forward to finishing it. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
