-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Shrek SuperSlam
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/ds/action/shreksuperslam/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 You can play as your favorite characters from the <i>Shrek</i> movies.
 Good amount of customization options for multiplayer battles.
 Large, destructible stages.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 Cheap AI.
 Limited fighting system.
 Button-mashing gets old quickly.
 Single-player challenges, story mode, and melee mode all amount to the same repetitive brawling.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Dec 14, 2005
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 6.5
Critic Score: 6.1, 11 Review (s)
User Score: 6.0, 81 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Activision
Developer: Amaze
Genre: Beat-'Em-Up
Date: Oct 25, 2005
ESRB: Everyone 10+

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Shrek SuperSlam is a decent attempt at a 3D brawler on the Nintendo DS, but the gameplay quickly 
 wears thin, leaving you with nothing more than a somewhat dated license. 

  Shrek SuperSlam is a 3D melee fighting game for the Nintendo DS. The game lets you play as one 
 of 12 characters as you fight in two- to four-player matches in one of the 16 stages in the game. 
 The fighting system is limited to a couple of strikes and a few basic combos, but there's no reason 
 to do anything other than mash a single attack button, because that almost always works just fine. 
 Shrek SuperSlam is a mediocre beat-'em-up that just happens to have a familiar cast of characters. 
 But, no matter how much you love the  Shrek  movies, the novelty of this game will wear off well 
 before you get your money's worth.  

          All your favorite  Shrek  characters are here, plus a few you probably never really cared 
 about.     

  The goal in Shrek SuperSlam is to collect fairy dust by pummeling your enemies in up-to-four-player 
 battles. After you get 100 fairy dust points, you can hit any attack button to "superslam" your 
 opponents, which sends them flying off the screen. There are a handful of different modes in the 
 game, but for the most part you don't have to do anything but mash buttons and rack up as many 
 superslams as possible within two minutes.  

  There's a story mode in Shrek SuperSlam, but the story has no bearing whatsoever on the gameplay. 
 Donkey invites Shrek and some other friends over for a game of cards, but his rambunctious children, 
 the Dronkeys, keep interrupting the game. In order to calm the critters down, you have to choose 
 a character to tell the Dronkeys a bedtime story. The story changes depending on which character 
 you choose, but aside from the initial setup and a brief closing scene, the story has nothing at 
 all to do with the rest of the game. After the intro, you fight your way through a series of one-on-one 
 battles. Each battle lasts two minutes, and the person with the most superslams at the end of the 
 match is the winner.  

  Melee mode is the basic fighting mode, but there are quite a few options that let you adjust the 
 rules of the game. You can choose the number of players, the stage, the time limit, the amount 
 of fairy dust you get for each hit, and more. You can play a simple timed match; a race match, 
 in which the first one to get a certain number of slams is the winner; a fairy dust challenge, 
 in which you just have to collect a certain amount of fairy dust; and a tag mode, in which the 
 last person slammed automatically respawns with a full helping of fairy dust.  

  There's also a megachallenge mode, which gives you 32 single-player challenges to complete. These 
 challenges range from a memory-type game in which you flip cards trying to match up like pairs, 
 to basic melee matches with specific stipulations. You might have to slam nine enemies without 
 getting slammed yourself, or slam an opponent within 30 seconds. The challenges are extremely easy, 
 so even though there are quite a few of them, you can still burn through the entire set in an hour 
 or two.  

  The best mode in the game is multiplayer melee. The game supports up to four players, but unfortunately 
 there's no game sharing, so you'll have to somehow convince your friends to get a hold of their 
 own copies of the game. If you only have one other friend who owns a copy of the game, you can 
 choose to play one-on-one matches, or you can add some bots to play against. You can also customize 
 your game with a variety of options just like in the single-player melee mode. The one problem 
 with multiplayer mode is that there's no running tally of wins versus losses over a number of rounds. 
 It's one of those things that you don't miss until it's gone.  

  The problem with the fighting in any mode in Shrek SuperSlam is that it just isn't much fun. Each 
 character has a standard punch and a heavy punch, both of which can be strung together to create 
 combos. There are a handful of combos, but none of them involve more than three button presses. 
 Each character can also perform a special move, as well as aerial attacks. Shrek farts to stun 
 his enemies, Puss in Boots charms his enemies by looking cute, Donkey summons his Dronkeys to dive-bomb 
 enemies, and so on. The problem is that none of these extra moves are ever necessary. You can just 
 hit the standard punch button over and over again and pummel your opponent into a corner where 
 they can't escape. Even if you choose not to take the cheap and easy route, the artificial intelligence-controlled 
 characters usually will. The opponents in the single-player game not only seem to move much more 
 quickly than you, but they often pin you down with repetitive, quick attacks that are nearly impossible 
 to avoid once you get caught up or cornered.  

  There are several different types of items and weapons that appear in each battle, but they aren't 
 especially useful. You can pick up a smelly sock on a stick, a broom, bombs, banana peels, magic 
 wands, crossbows that shoot toilet plungers, and more. There are also potions you can pick up to 
 make yourself invisible, to get a speed boost, or to shrink or grow your character. The weapons 
 extend your range slightly, but they're much slower than regular attacks. To equip a weapon you 
 have to touch the associated icon on the lower screen of the DS, which requires you to take your 
 eye off the top screen and leaves you open to attacks. The potions are just as extraneous as the 
 weapons. There isn't much of an advantage to being tiny or huge, and the invisibility potion never 
 seems to come in handy, either. The only useful potion is the speed potion, but even that is only 
 really necessary when you're trying to avoid your enemies entirely, which is only the case when 
 you've already built up a lead and want to run out the clock.  

          You can fight up to three of your friends in multiplayer melee, as long as you have three 
 other friends who have their own copies of the game.     

  The best part of Shrek SuperSlam is the presentation, specifically the 16 large, destructible stages 
 you can fight in. The stages each fit a specific theme, like Gingy's gingerbread house, Shrek's 
 swamp, Fiona's bedroom, and Geppetto's workshop. The stages are fairly large and there are plenty 
 of destructible objects to break apart. There's really no reason to do so, other than to see stuff 
 break apart, but that's all the reason you need to have breakable stuff in a fighting game. The 
 stages all have multiple levels for you to jump around on, and they all look good. There's even 
 a black-and-white version of Gingy's stage, which is actually really cool because it does a good 
 job of emulating the look of an old-fashioned silent film. The only problem with the big stages 
 is that sometimes characters get stuck behind walls or other objects, making it hard to see what's 
 going on. You can adjust a slider on the lower screen to zoom the camera in and out, but there 
 isn't enough range on the zoom feature to make it useful. The characters look good as well, except 
 for Shrek, whose face looks more deformed than it should, even for an ogre. The animations are 
 fairly stiff for each character, and the fact that you'll see the same few animations repeat constantly 
 makes the movements look pretty unnatural.  

  The sound in the game is bland and unremarkable. The characters all shout and grunt as they fight, 
 but you'll quickly get sick of all the noise. The music does a passable job of matching the theme 
 of each stage, but it's never particularly catchy or enjoyable, and you'll forget it as soon as 
 you hear it.  

  Shrek SuperSlam is a decent attempt at a 3D melee game for the Nintendo DS, especially if you are 
 really into the license. It wears thin pretty quickly though, and the fighting system is repetitive 
 and dull. The multiplayer is fun for a few rounds, but with plenty of other good multiplayer games 
 available on the DS, there's not much reason to play this one.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (5 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: Sk8more67
Rating: 6
Date: Aug 6, 2008 12:23 pm PT
Review:  Ok, this game isn't very cool at all, mainly because you aren't really given a lot of variety in 
 characters, levels, or weapons. It's like a sad attempt to reinvent Super Smash Bros. With barely any 
 items to pick up, you'll get bored, because you barely even get to use the touch screen in this game 
 even for minigames. The challenges in this game are pretty much all the same, but I have no clue 
 as to why. Something I really don't understand is if you select Shrek, you have his special move, when 
 you press a combination of three buttons, but then he farts, which then dazes enemies. Yeah, real mature, guys. Now, for 
 Activision to slap their logo on this, you'd hope that it would be at least good so this game doesn't 
 discrace the Activision logo. I mean, Activision releases Guitar Hero games, this game is a discrace 
 to Activision! I don't know many games as bad as this one, but if I had to name three, then these 
 are probably way up there.
  
  3. Shrek Superslam (are you really this lazy ass?)
  2. Yo Noid! (NES)
  1. E. T. (Atari)
  I wish that nobody ever even thought of creating this game, because 
 it's complete and utter bull crap! Well, that's it. This game sucks ass. I really hate this game, just 
 whatever you do, don't buy this game.
  
  -Sk8more67 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mirman13
Rating: 6.1
Date: Nov 8, 2006 6:43 pm PT
Review:  i had lots of fun going through the adventure modes but once you beat them all there is no point 
 of playing it was not at all what i thought it would be seeing the movies compared to the game 
 the game gets a thumb down twice but its alright for the first day or two but then not at all fun! oh 
 yeah and the graphics are in one word horrible horrible it looks like two sheets of paper chasing 
 each other yep its that bad and the story lines are just as bad like real bad there is one part 
 that makes since and thats when you reach the boss the rest is just thrown together yo yo! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: EviliPodMan99
Rating: 8.2
Date: Mar 20, 2006 1:08 pm PT
Review:  A fun game for all ages. You pick single player were donkey's babies want to here a story, so you 
 can go through Shrek, Fionna, Donkey, Gingy, Prince Charming and Puss in boot's story. After you 
 beat them, you can watch them over and over. Then you can play mission mode where you can get the 
 rest of the missions, and collect "French Flies." You use French Flies to buy pictures and characters 
 outfits. The letdown in this is the make you buy "Shrek Super Slam" for GBA to unlock Shrek and 
 the Witch's outfits. You win battles not by killing your foes but by kicking their butt then Super 
 Slaming them!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: blackraven3000
Rating: 3.2
Date: Jan 8, 2006 12:11 pm PT
Review:  whateverfj sjsixnsiu psiuvpuservpuaep iuvpi aunepr iuvnhpaie urvnpaiurh vpieurvnnu rniuanvpieurv 
 naieuvpauvn paieurvnpaiue vnpaieuvnpaei uvnpeia uvp auerp iu nvp a iuen rvupa \ieu vn puanpeirunvwhateverfj 
 sjsixnsiu psiuvpuservpuaep iuvpi aunepr iuvnhpaie urvnpaiurh vpieurvnnu rniuanvpieurv naieuvpauvn 
 paieurvnpaiue vnpaieuvnpaei uvnpeia uvp auerp iu nvp a iuen rvupa \ieu vn puanpeirunvwhateverfj 
 sjsixnsiu psiuvpuservpuaep iuvpi aunepr iuvnhpaie urvnpaiurh vpieurvnnu rniuanvpieurv naieuvpauvn 
 paieurvnpaiue vnpaieuvnpaei uvnpeia uvp auerp iu nvp a iuen rvupa \ieu vn puanpeirunvwhateverfj 
 sjsixnsiu psiuvpuservpuaep iuvpi aunepr iuvnhpaie urvnpaiurh vpieurvnnu rniuanvpieurv naieuvpauvn 
 paieurvnpaiue vnpaieuvnpaei uvnpeia uvp auerp iu nvp a iuen rvupa \ieu vn puanpeirunvwhateverfj 
 sjsixnsiu psiuvpuservpuaep iuvpi aunepr iuvnhpaie urvnpaiurh vpieurvnnu rniuanvpieurv naieuvpauvn 
 paieurvnpaiue vnpaieuvnpaei uvnpeia uvp auerp iu nvp a iuen rvupa \ieu vn puanpeirunvwhateverfj 
 sjsixnsiu psiuvpuservpuaep iuvpi aunepr iuvnhpaie urvnpaiurh vpieurvnnu rniuanvpieurv naieuvpauvn 
 paieurvnpaiue vnpaieuvnpaei uvnpeia uvp auerp iu nvp a iuen rvupa \ieu vn puanpeirunvwhateverfj 
 sjsixnsiu psiuvpuservpuaep iuvpi aunepr iuvnhpaie urvnpaiurh vpieurvnnu rniuanvpieurv naieuvpauvn 
 paieurvnpaiue vnpaieuvnpaei uvnpeia uvp auerp iu nvp a iuen rvupa \ieu vn puanpeirunv 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Falco_Fighter
Rating: 6.8
Date: Dec 18, 2005 4:03 pm PT
Review:  I have watched both of the Shrek movies and I laughed out loud. But this game is not funny... unless 
 your laughing AT it.
  
  I love fighting games becaused its filled with action and you control your own favorite character. 
 So when I got this game, I was expecting to see the kind from Super Smash Bros Melee or Mortal Kombat. 
 But the characters in this game do not really show a fighting sort of vibe when you look at them. 
 I mean come on, a little cat and skinny donkey? Well anyways I played it by myself and not enjoy 
 it very much. Some of the stuff are too hard plus you get frustrated and want to return it. But 
 there are some good qulaties in this game that save it from a major drop to 1.
  
  Gameplay- Like I said, some of this is too hard and you get really bored once you play it for 10-15 
 minutes. But at least you get some bonus levels which are really fun and you pick your own character 
 when given the option. So I gave this a 6.
  
  Graphics- The graphics in this game are good. But sometimes when you fight you can barely see your 
 character and sometimes get lost because its viewed pretty far away. So I gave this a 7.
  
  Sound- The announcer gives a cool 'ready go!' And the kicks and punches make good sound. But the 
 characters dont say anything (grunt, ah, etc.) unlike Super Smash Bros. But other than that, its 
 pretty good, I gave this one an 8.
  
  Value- I do not know what this means, so I gave this a 7.
  
  Tlit- I dont know what this is 
 either, so I gave this a 7 also.
  
  This game has alot of weaknesses and poor gameplay, but if you love shrek and dont mind giving up, this 
 game will suit you well.
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
