-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Sid Meier's Civilization Revolution
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/ds/strategy/sidmeierscivilizationrevolution/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 Engrossing strategic depth.
 Many ways to claim victory.
 Iconic visual style conveys a wealth of information.
 Meets high standard of the Civilization series.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 Busy maps can feel visually cluttered.
 Diplomacy is a bit limited.
 Wi-Fi opponents rarely stick around for long games.
 Sound is best left off.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Aug 13, 2008
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 8.5
Critic Score: 8.1, 21 Review (s)
User Score: 8.2, 368 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: 2K Games
Developer: Firaxis Games
Genre: Historic Turn-Based...
Date: Jul 8, 2008
ESRB: Everyone 10+

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Civilization Revolution for the DS is a distilled, streamlined version of the popular PC strategy 
 series that succeeds despite its limitations. 

  Ever since its inception in the early 1990s, Sid Meier's critically acclaimed Civilization series 
 has challenged players to "build an empire to stand the test of time." Civilization Revolution 
 is the newest scion of the series, and like its predecessors, it's a turn-based strategy game in 
 which you take charge of a notable historical civilization and lead it from humble beginnings to 
 world domination. Cramming the strategic breadth of Civilization on to a DS cartridge is a formidable 
 task, and developer Firaxis Games has done an admirable job. Though space limitations have forced 
 some notable exclusions, Civilization Revolution is still an enjoyable, engrossing game.  

           The Mongol hordes advance on Spanish cities.      

  Before the game begins, you must 
 make an important choice: Which of the 16 civilizations will you command? Each has a starting bonus 
 and four era bonuses that you'll gain as you progress through the ages; bonuses that will aid you 
 in some way on your path to victory. There are four types of victory in Civilization Revolution: 
 cultural, economic, technological, and domination. Each has particular victory conditions, and 
 civilization-specific bonuses are a good way to start down the road toward meeting those conditions. 
 Those seeking a cultural victory will appreciate that the Egyptians start with an ancient wonder, 
 whereas military-minded players might choose the Germans and their veteran warriors. Trying the 
 different civilizations on for size is great fun as you adapt your unique strengths to grow your 
 empire and deal with your opponents.  

  Once you've chosen your civilization, the game begins in earnest. As you set down your first city, 
 you'll see icons on the surrounding squares indicating how much food, production, or trade each 
 produces. Food grows your population, production builds units/buildings, and trade furthers scientific 
 research or fills your coffers with gold. Being aware of these resources is the key to your civilization's 
 prosperity. As your city grows larger and encompasses more squares, you'll have the option of telling 
 your workers to prioritize one resource over others or to work certain squares instead of others. 
 Certain buildings and technologies will increase your resource yield, so the challenge lies in 
 choosing what to research and what to build to optimize your city's production. This interweaving 
 of strategic considerations is absorbing and spurs you to constantly refine the myriad facets of 
 your grand plan.  

  With your first city up and running, you begin to go about the business of expanding your realm. 
 You build warriors to defend your city and explore the surrounding area. Barbarians may threaten 
 you early on, and destroying them will grant you gold or, perhaps, a bonus unit. There are also 
 friendly villages that will offer similar bonuses and sometimes even grant you a new technology. 
 Discovering impressive natural wonders, such as a great forest or a vast desert, will garner you 
 a gold bonus, as well as the right to name the region. There are also a few ancient artifacts, 
 such as Angkor Wat, which grant substantial boons to the civilization that discovers them. Although 
 it's already a thrill to explore uncharted lands, these bonus incentives add more urgency to your 
 wanderings and encourage you to keep up a brisk pace.  

          Contrary to your science advisor's claim, you actually can live without literacy.      
 

  As you explore, create units, and settle new cities, you'll soon discover that you're not alone. 
 Leaders of other civilizations will contact you with offers of peace, but don't expect these truces 
 to last. Depending on your difficulty level, you may have a few leaders asking to trade techs, 
 or they all may try to bully you out of hearth and home. You can do some bullying of your own from 
 the diplomacy panel, as well as make peace, trade techs, or even pay a leader to wage war on another 
 civilization. However, long-term trade agreements, nonaggression pacts, and open borders have been 
 excluded, the latter of which is particularly missed during online games when passing through an 
 ally's territory will cause a declaration of war. Oddly, the diplomacy menu won't tell you who 
 you're at war with, but it's generally easy to keep track because your enemies tend to try to extort 
 you every other turn.     

  If you refuse extortion attempts or want to pursue a domination victory, you'll declare war on 
 your enemies and march your legions off to battle. Every combat unit has a separate attack and 
 defense rating, so it's important to play to each unit's strengths. For example, in the early going, 
 archers are twice as powerful on defense than offense, so leaving them to defend your cities while 
 your more powerful attackers advance to the front may be a good move. Positioning yourself advantageously 
 is rewarding, not only because of terrain bonuses, but also because of the satisfaction you get 
 from winning a carefully executed encounter. Cutting through your opponent's forces and taking 
 his cities is immensely gratifying, though large invasion forces can get cumbersome because you 
 can no longer combine diverse units into a manageable stack.  

           The cartoon battle animations are a nice bonus.      

  Actual combat is merely a matter 
 of sending your unit onto an enemy unit's square and seeing how things play out. Victorious units 
 will gain experience and can earn special abilities, such as improved city defense. Combat has 
 been streamlined, and the number of units available throughout the ages has been pared down from 
 the robust PC rosters. Ships can now transport a huge number of units in any age, and give you 
 a combat boost when postioned next to your warring armies. These are just some of the changes from 
 the PC formula that, thankfully, don't feel like omissions. The strategies that the lost elements 
 supported are still present and can make or break your martial campaigns.  

  There's a lot of information to take into account when playing Civilization Revolution, and fortunately, 
 there are a number of built-in tools to help you. Your cadre of advisors will provide vital information 
 about units, buildings, and technologies as you determine what to build and research. Unfortunately, 
 the excellent console Civilopedia has not been included in any incarnation. All of the information 
 you need can be gleaned from the tech planner or your advisors; you'll just have to be a bit more 
 assiduous in piecing it all together. Civ vets will feel right at home, but beginners should play 
 their first game on the easiest difficulty and take advantage of the thorough tutorial.  

  Civilization Revolution isn't a pretty game because the interface focuses on function over form. 
 The animated battles, as well as the cartoon caricatures of advisors and world leaders, are the 
 only graphical flourishes in an otherwise symbol-heavy landscape. This actually works to its great 
 advantage because the iconic style communicates a large amount of information in a small amount 
 of space. It feels a bit busy initially, but one or two games in, and you'll be reading terrain 
 easily. There are some tricky bits, especially when two civs are similar colors or when there are 
 a lot of units traversing a small region. Still, the style works well, and the grid-based screen 
 is easily navigable with the D pad and face buttons. City management is also a breeze, and the 
 only time you'll find yourself using the touch screen is when you need to select a particularly 
 stubborn unit. As for the sound, it's mostly uninteresting sound effects punctuated with a few 
 nice fanfares, so you're better off turning the volume all the way down.  

           Cleopatra is one sassy dame.      

  Online play is smooth and moves at a reasonable 
 pace, whether you're playing locally with multiple cartridges or over the Nintendo Wi-Fi Connection. 
 The former is your best bet because it's less likely your opponents will drop out after their early 
 bid for a domination victory fails, but Wi-Fi works just as well, though it is markedly slower. 
 Up to four players can compete on one map, but it is hard to develop alliances and conspire against 
 foes within the limited diplomacy communication options, so free-for-all is generally the order 
 of the day.  

  Played against human or AI opponents, Civilization Revolution is a great game that will let you 
 plumb different strategic depths each time you play. It's incredibly easy to get engrossed in the 
 rhythm of expansion and evolution, and to find yourself happily losing hours and hours at a time. 
 Sid Meier and Firaxis Games have done a commendable job of streamlining many of the key game mechanics, 
 and they've cut out some of the micromanagement without gutting the strategic options. While not 
 as pretty or fully featured as its console counterparts, the DS version packs a lot of content 
 into a small package. The addictive turn-based strategy of the Civilization series has been well 
 distilled here, and folks looking to dominate the world wherever they go will be pleased with this 
 game.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (25 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: FelisLeo1980
Rating: 8
Date: Feb 21, 2009 8:08 am PT
Review:  Civilization Revolution brings Sid Meier's legendary series to consoles and its DS version is just 
 as good as other versions of it. For once in a strategy game you don't need to wage war, if you 
 don't want to.
  
  Story is pretty much that you choose from a wide variety of cultures from Romans to Russians all 
 the way to Japanese and guide your chosen civilization from stone age to space age. In the process 
 you need to make same kind of decisions that you would do in an Advance Wars game for example.
 
  
  Graphics are colorful and consist mostly of still images. It's all very simple but at the same 
 time you can tell what's happening on screen. Only until the end of the game there's so much stuff 
 on screen that it might get a little confusing. Sound design consist pretty much exclusively on 
 sound effects that are used throughout the game. It's pretty boring after a while.
  
  Controls are simple: you use only the different buttons and at some point the DS Stylus. You will 
 not learn the controls right from the start, but since the pacing of the game is very slow and 
 turn-based it doesn't really matter. Early on you need to make a decision about how to win the 
 game: you can concentrate on technology, military, economics, science or culture. You can choose 
 to wage war like you would do in a regular DS strategy game, but it's much more interesting to 
 choose technology or culture for example. Once you get the hang of things it's very addicting and 
 rewarding to rule your own Empire and watch it to grow and prosper.
  
  Pretty much the only bad thing in Civilization Revolution, aside from its audio visual presentation, 
 is that the game is very short. You can breeze through the whole game in just a few hours, but 
 since you can win in multiple different ways there are reasons to come back to the game.
  
  Game can also be played against 3 other human opponents, either locally or via Wi-Fi connection. 
 Because of the slow pacing it's best to choose local connection, because it's less likely for opponents 
 to drop out in the middle of a session.
  
  Civilization Revolution is a unique strategy game on the DS, because it concentrates something 
 other than war and this is a fresh perspective on consoles. Although the game is short I can still 
 recommend it to people who are in need for something different on their DS. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Flaren_Kuldes
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 4, 2008 1:30 pm PT
Review:  Civilizations featured in the game
  
  Players can control one of 16 different civilizations, each with a different leader. Each civilization 
 starts the game with a different special bonus that can be either a technology, a Great Person, 
 or a special ability. As the game progresses through time, the civilizations also obtain new abilities 
 when they reach a specific number of technology. In a given game each civilization can have up 
 to four bonuses that vary from civilization to civilization. Many of the civilizations have specific 
 specialized units that only they can build but unlike previous installments, these are for looks 
 only. Special units do not possess abilities beyond the normal unit but may have varying stats.
 
  
  Civilization Leader
  England Queen Elizabeth I
  Japan Tokugawa Ieyasu
  Aztec Montezuma II
  China Mao Zedong
  India Mohandas Gandhi
  Mongolia Genghis Khan
  Rome 
 Julius Caesar
  Egypt Cleopatra
  France Napoleon Bonaparte
  Arabia Saladin
  Greece Alexander the Great
  Spain Isabella of Castille
  Germany Otto von Bismarck
  Zulu Shaka
 
  Russia Catherine II
  America Abraham Lincoln
  
  There are also NPC barbarians who will wage war with all civilizations in the game until the globe 
 is conquered with all civilizations being destroyed. Compared to the PC versions, barbarians now 
 live in villages and will attack from them. Also the level of barbarian activity cannot be adjusted 
 as in previous installments, though the level of barbarian activity changes in certain scenarios. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: JoseShivers
Rating: 8.5
Date: Oct 13, 2008 2:18 pm PT
Review:  Great, it took a while to get used to, but to be honest a shrunk down slightly abbreviated Civ 
 is good news. Yes I love the complexity and control of all the minute aspects of the P. C versions, 
 but this is a nice take on the genre. The lighter more instant approach that has been adopted in 
 this make for a fun but not life absorbing world domination sim. I love it. I can play at world 
 conquest on the loo, on a plane or while my lady subjects me to X factor. All in all I was hoping 
 for a game similar to Civ 2 and while it is and it isn't I still have a very satisfying romp through 
 the ages of man. 
  Although I'd have liked the option to chose map sizes and nuke annoying races to hell (only 1 nuke 
 per game) , there is still enough in this to keep me happy. 
  The best handheld world domination sim to date! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: eric11harris
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 25, 2008 8:04 pm PT
Review:  Civilization Revolution is a game that is the best strategy game on the ds. The game play, controls, 
 multiplayer and replayability makes it a game that will render it obsolete in a hundred years from 
 now. The game is so addicting, that you will find yourself playing for hours on end. The games 
 controls and gameplay is surprisingly solid, even though it is on a small ds handheld. The only 
 fault I found while playing the game, is that no one really plays the 4 player multiplayer another 
 problem was that after a match, their was really no unlockables or any rewards for finishing a 
 level. You only seem to play for a high score. The thing that constantly keeps me playing is the 
 game of the week, a weekly download that gives you a knew map for free. This is the thing that 
 you should do first before you play any of the campaign maps, just so you get the feel for the 
 game. So if you are in need of a game that will change your view of the ds forever, get Civilization 
 Revolution. It is a game that will not dissapoint you in way. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Edraenth
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 2, 2008 8:01 am PT
Review:  CivRev is just plain fun. The controls are easy and intuitive, the methods to win are diverse, 
 and the scalable difficulty level paired with multiple campaigns and random maps ensure that you 
 will be able to keep yourself challenged for many a play-through.
  
  As always, Civilization provides a wide variety of means to achieve dominance over your rivals, 
 and you will find yourself constantly pondering whether to build new military units or rev up your 
 science and culture. Threats and attacks from your opponents are plentiful and dead serious, but 
 you will rarely find yourself totally unable to respond unless you have really stretched yourself 
 too thin which, to be honest, is all part of the learning curve of this type of game.
  
  Only a few downsides prevent this from being a near-perfect game. Diplomacy is a bit weak, as it 
 has been in all Civilization games. The AI opponents are incredibly hard-headed, making negotiations 
 nearly impossible at times, and they rarely seem willing to make equitable trades. Also, it's very 
 tough to mount an adequate sea-based defense, and the addition of some sort of "scout" or "attack 
 on sight" option would have been especially beneficial on the sea and air fronts.
  
  On to more technical matters, the in-game tutorial, as well as the manual, are a bit muddy on some 
 of the explanations of what some of the commands do. The game is also missing a couple of basic 
 query-type options, like failing to show how much attack and defense power a unit has after being 
 built. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Bllasae
Rating: 10
Date: Aug 25, 2008 7:46 pm PT
Review:  Easier to play than the other civilizations, and one of the best Civilization games to date. The 
 only bad things about this game are that there aren't enough rounds, you're only allowed to build 
 one nuke, and that you're not allowed to change settings before starting a game, although you are 
 allowed to select from some scenarios, random map, or the "Game of the Week", a great feature. 
 A great thing about this game compared to the PC's previous versions is that even in the later 
 games, when there's a lot of units, the game doesn't get too slow. This is one of the best games 
 that have comes out for the Nintendo DS since it's release. A great Civilization game. Very highly 
 recommended for any Nintendo DS owner! Also recommended is Age of Empires: The Age of Kings for 
 a similar great game! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: payne6705
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 20, 2008 8:56 pm PT
Review:  This game surprised me I only picked it up because I needed time to kill (I had a 17 hour train 
 ride then a 4 hour car ride) and I have to say the game is awesome and won't disappoint any Sid 
 Meier fans and is a solid port of the console versions
  
  
  
  
  GAMEPLAY:
  
  The game plays as a turn-based strategy game in where the map where you manage your cities and 
 armies is on the bottom screen and the stats are on top anyway one turn (to manage cities and move 
 your armies/ people) is either a couple of years or 100 years and you start with picking over 16 
 famous people from history to lead a country (like for example Lincoln leads America while Ghandi 
 leads India) and then you play on a map with 3-4 other countries in the BC era and you have to 
 send settlers out to get more land before the others and you basically slowly make your way to 
 the future and your soldiers slowly transform from men with clubs to men with armor and swords 
 and then horses all the way up to tanks and flying fortresses and it all depends on what science 
 your country learns and you decide it.. which is easier then it sounds some adviser comes and asks 
 what you want to learn for example if you say alphabet then you can build a certain structure if 
 you say iron then you can build with iron and make gladiator units etc etc also your units you 
 build for fighting you can combine into a army so for example you combine 3 gladiator units (because 
 you can only combine the same units) their defense and attack get tripled eventually you learn all 
 the science in the game but it all depends on when you learn it 
  
  There are 4 ways to win a game the first way is basically you capture every capital city (the 1st 
 cities every country started with) and holding them the 2nd way is Economic which you need 20,000 
 gold in your reserves and build a bank world wonder the 3rd way is cultural victory which is you 
 have 20 of either great people (famous people from history who decided to move to your town) wonders, 
 cities from other countries that decided to join your country, 4th technology victory which is 
 learning every tech that requires the building of a space ship and launching it and it making its 
 destination 
  
  
  
  Graphics:
  
  The graphics are horrible if you are a total graphics whore don't buy this game the map screen 
 (where u manage your cities and armies) is horrible looking and the game boasts its nuke launching 
 abilities let me tell you the Nuke was the biggest disappointment ever all you see is a missile 
 it hits its target and the screen shakes... thats it.... huge disappointment 
  
  
  
  Sound: 
  
  Lets say you truly don't need the sound on while playing the game its not the best 
 and there really isn't any reason to put it on
  
  
  
  Controls:
  
  When you first play the game the controls are confusing you can play with the touch screen and 
 the pad basically its kinda a hard control scheme and I didn't know this sometimes when your turn 
 starts the option "end turn" is on the screen and you can't move the screen with the pad so you 
 HAVE to use the touch screen to move your characters trust me on that one
  
  
  
  Multiplayer:
  
  I didn't play it yet but if its anything like the single player game then it 
 is probably one of the best multiplayer games out right now for the DS 
  
  
  
  
  
  PROS:
  
  
  Addictive gameplay, Open ended selections leaves for much replayability, you won't 
 play the same game twice, 16 diffrent countries, multiplayer, kinda cool to see your empire change 
 from men with clubs to Sherman tanks
  
  
  
  
  
  CONS:
  
  Graphics suck, Sound sucks, even on the 2nd to easiest section the game is tough and merciless, 
 the top screen where stats are (like the hit points of enemies) are sometime blocked by control 
 hints that block your view, the nuke, and sometimes the computer always wins a skirmish for example 
 my combined Modern soldiers (the highest solider class) went up against 1 rifle men (one class 
 down from modern soldiers) and my soldiers lost for no reason I had battleship fire on them (which 
 weakens them) and everything and they didn't have a scratch on them it made no sense and that usually 
 happens from time to time when you play 
  
  
  
  
  Closing:
  
  In closing the game has its faults but they can be easily over looked the game is great and highly 
 addictive it moves slow at first and you might lose 1-2 maps but once you get into it and learn 
 everything the game gets better and better each time 
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: MasterPoof
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 18, 2008 7:26 am PT
Review:  I never really played any previous Civilization games but I decided to pick this game up and I'm 
 glad I did. Civilization Revolution is a great portable version of the console version. The gameplay 
 is great with many ways to win a victory. There are also many nations which are interesting and 
 fun to try them out to see which fits you best. The multiplayer is also very fun at times. There 
 is a lot of strategic depth into the game which makes the game more fun to play. There are also 
 diffrent units available as you progress through the ages. The gameplay can be slow-paced however 
 and multiplayer matches may take a large amount of time to complete but if you have a lot of time 
 on your hands then you should be fine. Overall, Civilization Revolution for the DS is a wonderful 
 and fun game that you should definitely get. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: monkeytoes61
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 17, 2008 6:13 pm PT
Review:  Civilization Revolution is a turn based strategy game for the DS. Anybody who has a PC has most 
 likely played at least one Civilization game. They would probably think it's impossible to transport 
 such a grand game to a portable system. To be honest, I had my doubts. Then I played a round, and 
 saw this was really an amazing game. It starts out like any other Civilization game. You build 
 your first city and start exploring. Soon, you are researching technologies, building more cities 
 and fighting wars. That's what I enjoyed so much about this game. By my second or third game, I 
 felt like I has been playing the game for years. Anybody could just pick up and play, quite the 
 contrary to other Civ games. Whenever two units fight, you get a brief cut scene of the battle. 
 This is similar to Advance Wars or Age of Empires. It's a nice little addition. Obviously this 
 game is watered down compared to the earlier PC titles, but you never feel like they had to take 
 too much out to make it fit on the DS. It's just good old fashioned Civilization, but now you can 
 play it anywhere. I personally loved the graphics, it fit perfect and I never had any trouble figuring 
 out what something was. All in all, this is just a great game. Well worth the $30. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Blue_Tomato
Rating: 8
Date: Aug 16, 2008 10:00 pm PT
Review:  This mini-review is assuming you have already played this famous game on another platform, so I'll 
 just cover what's different about the DS version.
  
  They have basically taken the pure essence of Civilization and crammed it into a DS. Some things 
 are missing, like workers building roads or other enhancements. You can still build roads though, 
 but they appear instantly in one round if you have enough gold to buy them. So, this part is different 
 but it works just as well as before.
  
  The only real complaint would be the somewhat crippled diplomacy. You can receive threats, but 
 you can not issue threats to gain some favor from poor nations. This was one of the fun parts in 
 the original Civilization though, so I missed it.
  
  But, some nice additions have made it to the game as well. Like the cartoonish fighting sequences, 
 which work much the same way as Advance Wars. This works well, and adds some excitement to the 
 outcome of a battle.
  
  I also enjoyed the rich amount of game modes that's featured. There's a long list of games you 
 can start that has various twists to them, like unique goals or different starting points. For 
 example you have a game starting off in another planet, where you have to fight for colonizing 
 it. Others will set the world at constant war, or provide everyone with a lot of gold or other 
 assets from the beginning. 
  
  I missed being able to customize each game a bit more though, by setting the world size, opponents 
 and other factors.
  
  I did not try out the wi-fi options, but I can imagine it's a bit slow to play a game like this 
 with a friend. It literally takes hours to finish one game, and you most likely will want to use 
 the save feature at one point in the middle. Finishing one game with a friend in one sitting may 
 be possible, but probably not why you want to buy the game.
  
  The game has many difficulty settings, so there should be something for everyone. Some things has 
 been watered out, but I had to think carefully to remember what I should miss. The game works perfect 
 for the format, and apart from some minor annoyances the user interface is painless to use and 
 works very well.
  
  Also new players can get into this easily, and helpful tutorials in the form of advisers will teach 
 you every single thing about the game mechanics.
  
  I only played the most basic difficulty level so far and found it too easy. Soon I had tanks butchering 
 towns defended with archers. But, there's a range of difficulty settings so it should be easy to 
 find the one that's right for you.
  
  All in all an excellent strategy game, which will help you get through long, boring travels with 
 its eventful long battles for bringing your civilization to victory.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: SaudiFury
Rating: 8
Date: Aug 14, 2008 3:27 pm PT
Review:  it is a good game, definitely one of the better strategy games on the DS. Civ Revolution ofcourse 
 doesn't have the depth of the PC versions like Civ 4, but definitely good for any DS users, and 
 lovers of strategy.
  
  kept simple, only problem i have (and if anyone can point it out to me to please tell me) how i 
 can keep up ahead in tech and yet build a strong enough army to properly defend myself, or at the 
 very least good strategy. 
  
  my own personal problem with the game is this:
  
  the thing with Civ Revolution, is unlike Civ 4, you never really know WHO is your enemy, in Revolution 
 it appears that ALL neighbors are hostile, irregardless of them being friendly at every other turn. 
 Out of the blue they'll demand tribute or they'll declare war on you. At least with Civ 4 you get 
 some good indication of who likes you and who doesn't. 
  
  That is the my only real complaint, i didn't expect a whole lot in the graphics department for 
 the DS version, but i was hoping for a well programmed AI - and on the whole it works with the 
 exception of neighbors declaring war out of the blue sky. 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: bluej33
Rating: 6
Date: Aug 5, 2008 7:03 pm PT
Review:  I'm no huge fan of PC gaming, but Sid Meier is a genius. Most, if not all of the PC games that 
 I've played and loved are his brainchild. Civilization, the civ-building simulation which allows 
 you to guide a tribe of real-world people from the stone age up into the modern era, is one of 
 my favorite PC series. It's made the jump to the 360, PS3 and, strangely enough, the DS under the 
 title Civilization Revolution. And although there's potential here, Civilization Revolution for 
 the DS is just another sad game that couldn't live up to what it promised. 
  
  What did it promise? Essentially, DS owners were ensured a Civilization game. It would be small 
 and scaled-down, admittedly. It would not be the same huge, epic game that the PC version is. Much 
 of the gameplay minutiae would have to be cut out. But we handheld gamers seemed all set for a 
 mostly-intact Civilization experience. Age of Empires: Age of Kings is an example of a PC game 
 that was moved easily over to the DS. Sadly, Civilization Revolution is not. 
  
  There are two main problems with Civilization Revolution that ultimately stop it from being the 
 fun, addictive title it could have been. One of the problems lies with the execution of the game 
 itself. That's not a huge deal. But the other problem, sadly, stems from limitation on the DS hardware 
 itself. It's saddening, because many games out there thrive thanks to the unique functionality 
 of the DS. Sadly, "unique" is not what Civilization Revolution needed; it needed more real estate 
 to work with. 
  
  Playing games on handhelds has always been different from other forms of gaming. When you're playing 
 on a 22" widescreen monitor or a 50" HDTV, it can be difficult transitioning from the big screen 
 to a small, cramped one. But in Civilization Revolution, the size of the DS screen gets in the 
 way not just of playing pleasure but also in the way of gameplay. 
  
  Much of the appeal of the PC versions of Civilization comes from the massive maps. You're on a 
 continent with several other friendly or not-so-friendly nations and how you deal with them is 
 entirely up to you. But because the DS' screen is so small, it seemed a wise move on the developers 
 to pare down the size of the map for the DS version of the game. But as a result, you find yourself 
 extremely cramped. You can navigate around the world in a boat in a matter of turns, you'll explore 
 your continent in a few minutes, and you're left producing tons of units and you've got nothing 
 to do with them. The enemies on the map are few and far between and you'll spend turns shuttling 
 troops across the ocean to a tiny island where a warring nation is, while the rest of your sprawling 
 civilization is sitting around doing nothing. 
  
  It's just that the epic feel of the PC versions is gone, and playing through this title now feels 
 like a turn. Interaction with other civs doesn't occur often, and you'll find yourself with huge 
 stockpiles of units and nothing to do with them. As a result, your turns are often spent doing 
 the one or two important things in your civilization and then spending five minutes telling everybody 
 else to sentry themselves or just wait around. It's really frustrating, and the lack of interaction 
 means that the combat and diplomacy options which are so much fun just aren't put to use very often. 
 The game works, I suppose, but there's just not a whole lot to do once you start playing. 
  
  This is a problem that stems from the system itself, but the other significant issue is more 
 a result of bad execution on the dev team's part. Civilization was always great for it's combination 
 of in-depth gameplay combined with surprising accessibility. However, Civilization Revolution seems 
 to have flipped that formula on its head and instead what we end up with is a rather shallow game 
 that's hard to get into. The variety of technologies and other little gameplay additions are largely 
 meaningless in the big scheme of things, as you can win the game by just mass-producing war units 
 and barraging the few enemy encampments that you come into contact with. 
  
  That is to say, the technology and improvements that you come up with have no real bearing on the 
 way the game plays. Rather you're playing as a dictatorship or monarchy, you still have absolute 
 control. Civilization bonuses have no noticeable impact and each civilization plays identically 
 to each other. Yet despite this lack of depth, Civilization Revolution is not a particularly user-friendly 
 game. The tutorial is severely lacking and any newcomer to the series is going to be seriously 
 overwhelmed. Just navigating throughout the game map is a chore, and both the button and stylus 
 control configurations feel clunky and unintuitive (you wouldn't believe how many times I accidentally 
 told a unit to heal when I wanted to go "back" -- stupid B button) . You're given very little guidance 
 throughout the game aside from a few nagging advisors and it'll take a couple play-throughs to 
 fully acclimate yourself with how you're meant to play this game. 
  
  But frankly, the game is too boring to do that. By the time you've mastered the ins and outs of 
 Civilization Revolution, you'll likely be sick of it. Each game feels far too similar, the civilizations 
 lack distinction, and there's a huge gap in terms of difficulty distribution. It's a boring, disappointing 
 game that lacks much strategy, combat, or city management. It's a pretty shallow strategy game 
 and as such would be a good introduction to the genre, but fans of the real Civilization are going 
 to want to stick with the console versions of Civilization Revolution or just good old Civilization 
 IV. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: albrethsen26
Rating: 10
Date: Jul 29, 2008 10:15 am PT
Review:  I am normally a hater of games with bad graphics. But not this game, it may have sad graphics, 
 but the AMAZING, PHENOMONAL gameplay MORE than makes up for it. if you have palyed this on the 
 ps3, or x360, it is exactly the same, unlike most games that are made for console and portable, 
 but it is a great game to play if u are in a car, aon a long trip, because each game will take 
 about 2 hours t finish. i recommend this game to anyone who loves strategy games, and likes to 
 build MASSIVE armies, from 4000bc to space age, every year of the game is an adventure. A game 
 this great is VERY VERY rare, this is a MUST have for any fan of TBS, or EVEN RTS fans. A little 
 help, if you dont know if you would like the game, if you likes age pf empires, or empire earth, 
 you would love this game, some games i love, that are similar, are-CNC Wanes Wrath, in fact every 
 CNC game, lord of the rings The Battle for Middle-earth 1, and 2, and expansion, age fo ampires, mythology, 
 and empire at war., have fun.!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nintendoboy16
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 21, 2009 5:28 pm PT
Review:  Civilization: Revolution is a turn based strategy game that joins other turn based DS games, such 
 as Pokemon, Inuyasha, Final Fantasy, etc. The game always starts out as the civilizations in the 
 stone age. Then onto midieval times, industrial ages, and modern ages. The game features battle 
 cinematics whenever the player starts a battle. 
  
  What I liked about this game is that it still has that addictive gameplay that Civilization III 
 on the PC has. Wi-fi online play. Most remembered cultures from previous Civ games. Powering up 
 your troops in this game by adding more troops is cool. Great setup on exclusive abilities depending 
 on faction.
  
  The only thing that really bugged me in Civilization: Revolution is some of the new looks of the 
 leaders (such as Catherine's barmaid look) .
  
  Overall, Civ: Rev makes a stupendous debut on the DS. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ExeterTheMonk
Rating: 9
Date: Jul 21, 2008 6:56 pm PT
Review:  Having never played Civilization before i cant say how it stands up to other past and present versions. 
 Also i know its been toned down for the DS version a little. But that said i found it highly addictive. 
 If you like strategy games at all this one i would highly recommend. 
  
  Some cons were, not being able to save multilayer games being a novice some what at it the games 
 can go on for a long time, also multilayer options were relay limited. I'd like to see you set 
 or disable victory conditions, number of AI, Starting conditions, AI of varying levels. The same 
 thing can be said about the main game too. also if you get allot of units you have to move them 
 all 1 by 1... can take a while if you have a huge army.
  
  Overall its really fun, interface is basic and easy, the game can be a little overwhelming at first 
 but once you play one game to the end you should have a basic understating on what you should be 
 doing. There is no story in the game. its simply a strategy game. If you like the other civilizations, 
 Advance Wars, Ogre battle, or lords of the realm 2 you will probably like this one.
  If you like games that are flashy, fast paced, and very graphic intense this DS version is probably 
 not for you.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: lil_meesho
Rating: 4
Date: Jul 19, 2008 7:57 pm PT
Review:  Seeing the images and graphics on the official website, as well as user videos and reviews, I had 
 high expectancy of this game. But the instant I started playing this game, it hit me that it wasn't 
 AT ALL what I had expected, and is only limited to building things and attacking/conquering neighbouring 
 civilizations (which, ironically, at the start of the game ask to make peace with you) .
  
  I expected an all-out civilization-building game (such as Tilted Mill's PC game "Immortal Cities: 
 Children of the Nile") : building, construction projects, libraries, populating the city, taking 
 care of the people's concerns, feeding them, all along with taking care of politics and foreign 
 affairs. Turns out the technology and building options are there for "flashiness", like the polish 
 to a table that's about to be sent out to stores. It is merely "decorative", just to complete the 
 whole feel of the civilization. 
  
  The true goal in this game is conquering the world. I expected to learn from it how to use diplomacy 
 with neighbours, and trade and build economies. Turns out the second your neighbour feels like 
 it, he/she will start war with you and try to conquer your city even if seconds ago they'd asked 
 to make peace with you.
  
  The idea of a "civilization" in this game seems quite useless - considering your civilization can 
 last from 10 minutes and up. If you lose (are conquered) , you cannot rebuild your city [in the 
 same game] , maybe try to reconquer or perhaps resist an occupation - your sole option is "End Game" 
 and play again.
  
  My conclusion is that i've been ripped off "mentally", by the website and its marketing scheme 
 - my first impression of this game was that I could build my own civilization from scratch and 
 do all sorts of things (besides war) . The only reason any player would get "hooked" on this game 
 would most likely be to figure out how to do things, i. e. if there's anything else to do.
  
  My impression NOW can be summed in two words: 
  
  "What the ...
::::::

::::::
UserName: DrCruel
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jul 15, 2008 8:52 pm PT
Review:  I have been anticipating this release for some time now, and I must say I am not disappointed. 
 One of my favorite games for the DS is Age of Empires, and this game plays similarly, but is much 
 better - cities are named, units can get special experience bonus skills, there are resource squares 
 and leader units and plenty of the sort of chrome that Civilization fans are used to. Best of all, 
 one can save at any time during a game to any one of six save slots, making this perfect for quick 
 bouts of strategy gaming. Since I've gotten this title, virtually all my spare gaming time has 
 been spent playing it.
  
  Perhaps I'm a bit biased, and I must admit to really being a fan of the genre, but I very much 
 like this game - almost as much as Anno 1701, which in my opinion is the best DS game out thus 
 far. If I were to fashion a Top Ten for DS games, this would be my Number 2. Yes, it's that good. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: XxShadowTongyxX
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jul 15, 2008 2:23 pm PT
Review:  I think of this game as a great game for the system in which it was released for. Sure they could 
 have made this game a lot better, even with the restriction of the system it was released for. 
 Considering it can not support a whole lot, for the lack of ram, memory, and power. The games are 
 a bit short. The game is typically over before I have researched all of the technology, or have 
 even gotten a nuke at the very least. Also there were claims of the maps being to small, I find 
 them as big enough. You have to remember that in order for civilization revolution to have added 
 all the other in depth features they had to slim other things down. Would you rather have a big 
 map, with only thirty technology, or would you rather have a slightly small map, with forty seven 
 technology? The game is in depth enough for non hard core fans of civilization games, to keep interest, 
 such as myself. The fact that all boarders are closed, can kind of become annoying, though I just 
 kick the hell out of them to get across their boarders. Also in other reviews I have read, the 
 AI destroys you before you are built up to defend yourself. They do not destroy you before you 
 are ready, nor do they even declare war on you before you are ready. I have played all on the different 
 difficulty levels, and I have still found they do not attack early in the game. Besides, you could 
 just keep one army on your capital, and build up slowly from there, and you should be fine, no 
 matter how many enemy civilizations are around you. I would have liked to see more in depth features 
 for Religion, and Government, but still, this is a good enough game for me, and a great portal 
 game that I can play anywhere. The DS handles the game well, with minimal lag, unlike other games 
 that were released on the system. All in all, this is a great game, I highly recommend buying it, 
 if you can not afford a PS3, or a 360. The games are identical, except for leader boards, and better 
 graphics, other than that, they are 100% identical. The game is highly addicting, and no two games 
 are the same. Civilization Revolution has high replay value. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: timbur
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jul 15, 2008 1:11 am PT
Review:  Finally, I can play Civ on a portable device, something I've wanted to do for many years. Ironically, 
 if the OpenPandora gets released, I will be able to play FreeCiv on that portable device too.
 
  
  The gameplay is very good. Civ Rev is a much lighter Civilization game. Despite what some reviewers 
 say however, the DS version has the same size maps as the versions on the 360 and the PS3. It might 
 seem smaller since you can see more of the map at one time with the DS. (I find it easier to play 
 the DS version than the 360 version. Ever hear of camera controls? Arg.)
  
  The controls (except for the lack of camera controls) are very good in this version. It takes a 
 long while to figure out how to properly select the right unit in a stack; the game wants you to 
 move your units in a particular order, which is fine when not in a war, but when in a war it is 
 almost always bad.
  
  The AI is pretty tough. I haven't had much problem with it so far but I am a Civ veteran so I do 
 some micromanagement tricks that impove my returns.
  
  Multiplayer is available, but I haven't tried it on the DS. (I have tried it on the 360, and it 
 was pretty good.)
  
  Critical Aspects:
  If you haven't played Civilization before, then good luck - you will need it! This is not the best 
 platform to learn the game. There are good in-game tutorials, but there is no reference card or 
 online help or anything at all in the manual that will remind you or inform you of detailed information 
 that is often good to have in a strategy game:
  * what your civilization's bonuses are (before you get them)
  * what the economic bonuses are
 
  * what the attack and defense of units are
  * what the special abilities of nation-specific units are
  * and most importantly - what the 
 bonus is for discovering a particular tech!
  For help with all those, go to http://www. civfanatics. com.
  
  Best strategy game so far on 
 the DS. I admit a very high bias. (I own 2 copies on the 360 also.) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: masayalones100
Rating: 9
Date: Jul 14, 2008 12:11 am PT
Review:  i was excited about playing the new civilization game because i love them. when you first play 
 it on the ds you have to wait for a bit for it to load but after that you don't have to do that 
 aneymore. there are plenty of things to do such as scenarios, random map , wi-fi and local play 
 and map of the week. when i first started it felt weird playing because it was so zoomed out and 
 there was no zoom in option. after about 10 minutes i started to get comfortable with it. it seems 
 complicated at first because i was not accustomed with the new format, first you cant see your treasury 
 from the regular screen, second you cant see what your building unless you click on your building 
 and as i mentioned the zoom was a bit out. as i started to play i enjoyed it more and more. but 
 i soon realized the ds version is way short. it may take about 2 hr most to play through a game. 
 it plays like a regular civ game like it is turn based and maney other things. this game is difficult 
 to rate in the difficulty scale because there is lots of difficulties to play on. on the wi-fi 
 mode it takes a while to find a opponent but i bet it is because the game just came out. over all 
 the game is verry fun and verry intertaing 
::::::

::::::
UserName: AngelOfAlliance
Rating: 9
Date: Jul 13, 2008 8:55 pm PT
Review:  Like anyone else i was a little... hesitant to buy this game for the DS, but soon i lost all hesitation 
 when i started. this game doesnt look great, but its to be expected from the DS. but the game is 
 extremely fun, and i was glad to see alot of different civilizations and leaders. the game is easy 
 to play right from the get-go, although playing the demo for the 360 helped. the game offers up 
 ALOT of help, too much actually it seems to tell you everything over, and over, and over again. 
 and it REALLY gets old. the graphics are well... bad, i was very disappointed, but it was easy 
 to overlook that considering the game is very good. there are alot of different technologies which 
 was nice to see. they range from writing to advanced flight and even space travel. even on the 
 DS each game will take you an hour or more to complete, but luckily it gives you the option to 
 save as you advance through the eras. this game looks bad graphically but is a really good game 
 when you overlook the visual shortage. id recommend a buy or altest a rent, definately a must play. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: djessemoody
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jul 13, 2008 9:07 am PT
Review:  Let me start by saying this. I did not believe that I would enjoy civilization revolution. I have 
 been playing its PC counterparts for years now, and when the information for revolution being released 
 came out that it was a civilization-lite, I feared the worst.
  
  Still, I bought the game as soon as it came out for the 360, and the ds version a day later. When 
 I first started playing this game, I knew that my fears were needless. This was not a civilization-lite, 
 but a civilization for the working man.
  
  Yes, the micromanagement is slightly lessened. But is the strategy really weakened? The answer 
 is no. In fact, since human play becomes more feasible (i never had time to spend 6 hours at one 
 time online, so in the other civs it was single player and save) , now my strategies are no longer 
 static. My game plan is constantly changing.
  
  Many have commented that the single player AI is overbearing. Yes, admittedly, that is true. However, 
 This is no longer the laid back civilization game of the past. These leaders force you to think 
 on your feet. And in the end, it helps keep the game moving.
  
  An advantage the DS has for the game is it is portable. Never before could I take civilization 
 on a plane flight. Now it is an option. However, like all things, advantages usually come with 
 disadvantages. The AI is a little slower to process (longer turn times) , and of course, the graphics 
 are much worse than its plug into the tv counterparts.
  
  End the end, will this appease all hardcore civilization players? No. Will this thrill all civilization 
 newcomers no? However, if you go to it with a free mind you will find that it is a highly satisfying 
 experience and most will come to enjoy the gameplay, especially those with a short schedule.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: little2big67
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jul 11, 2008 9:21 am PT
Review:  When thinking about porting over a sophisticated game from the PC to the DS, one might struggle 
 with the idea of a decent game. Opening up Civ for the DS, my heart was a little nervous. Is this 
 gonna be as good as it looks or is it gonna flop?
  
  Powering on, I found the game very simple to play. I had set the the help high in the options menu 
 so while i played my first game, someone was there to help me with units, buildings, and just about 
 everything else I needed to know. The game itself was decently constructed. The color schemes seemed 
 to match and the movement either with the stylus or the control pad was simple. The game has some 
 challenging point to it. You can't pass through ally zone without it being an act of war. However, 
 I enjoyed the simplicity of the movement with the sophistication of creating an empire.
  
  An all around fun game for the DS, one that I will play for some time to come. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ahappyfool
Rating: 7
Date: Jul 10, 2008 1:43 pm PT
Review:  I have played all the Civ games from the PC. I even tried a SE mobile version of the game which 
 was difficult, awkward and not very challenging.
  
  I walking into game with some mixed feelings. Will they mess it up like other DS version attempts 
 like Guitar Hero, Dynasty Warriors, etc.
  
  Buuuut, what you get here is a (albeit simplified looking) game that would be a good intro to those 
 whom have never played the PC versions. There are advisors whom offer help along the way, which 
 is nice. The graphics are 1 dimensional overhead view (like google maps, rather than the usual 
 diagonal look from previous versions) . The battle animations (which you can skip) are useful and 
 amusing at times, especially if you watch a tank go against a warrior. Unit movement is easy, but 
 the territory blocking is annoying (like if you try to travel through a neighbouring nation whom 
 is your ally, its seen as an act of war) .
  
  My only disappointment is the city map. I really believe they could have recreated the city map 
 option in CIV 2 or even 3. When you start out, it takes a lil bit to understand how to change your 
 science, units and military building. While it is nice that they have made road building easier, 
 and the tech guide is nice.. just not enough.
  
  BUT this is a handheld game, and considering what they tried to include, I think they made a good 
 attempt. I will play this game when I need a quick CIV fix.
  
  And those of you who like multiplayer, its got it and you can even download a scenario of the week 
 if you are connected on-line.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: GFL
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jul 9, 2008 12:10 pm PT
Review:  Quite the relaxing game, graphics aren't wonderful on the DS compared to the other consoles or 
 PC versions of them but actually do compare quite favorably to the PC Civ 1/2 games. Quite good 
 all in all. The extra 'cut' scenes of the fights are amusing but are usually skipped and fortunately 
 can be skipped. All in all it's a good game for Civ lovers. For me though I find that all in all 
 the game itself reminds me more of Civ 2 than 1, not a good thing in some ways good in others. 
 The graphics are better then 1, there is more subtlety of the barbarian hordes. But the random 
 stuff just isn't that good to keep things different.
  
  There's more planning here in some ways but it's a Civ game so I was expecting to need to plan 
 a bit more. The different eras bonuses are a new twist but hardly unbalancing.
  
  I enjoy it but it's not the PC version. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
