-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: SimCity Creator
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/ds/strategy/simcitycreator/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 Lengthy Challenge mode eases you into making megacities.
 Responsive controls make city-building easy.
 Buildings are detailed and correspond to the time period.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 Only two save slots.
 Some icons are too small.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Oct 16, 2008
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 7.5
Critic Score: 7.2, 14 Review (s)
User Score: 7.6, 63 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: EA Games
Developer: Electronic Arts
Genre: Strategy
Date: Sep 22, 2008
ESRB: Everyone

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Taking a page from the Civilization handbook, SimCity Creator offers an enjoyable evolutionary building 
 experience. 

  Though they share the same name, the DS version of SimCity Creator has little to do with its Wii 
 cousin. Most of the superfluous features of the console version have been ditched, and the Mission 
 mode has been streamlined giving the game a more cohesive feel. The DS version of SimCity Creator 
 is great for newcomers to the city-building series, and different enough to be worth a look from 
 veterans.  

           At this stage, you don't need to worry about powering your city; electricity hasn't been 
 invented yet.      

  Your purpose in Creator, as in every SimCity game, is to build and manage a thriving metropolis. 
 The customary Free mode lets you build a city of any size with few restrictions. However, to make 
 the best of it, you'll need to play Challenge mode, in which you can unlock new buildings and zones. 
 Challenge mode focuses on your long-term mayoral abilities. You start in ancient times, at the 
 dawn of civilization, when your only concern is making sure your citizens have enough hunting trails. 
 As your population grows, you'll move to a new era in which you'll be given more to manage. This 
 process repeats through modern times and up to the present day. Unfortunately, there are only two 
 save slots to share between both modes. It's disappointing that you can't alternate between multiple 
 cities in multiple eras at the same time.  

  The fun of Challenge mode comes from seeing your city evolve from grass huts to futuristic skyscrapers. 
 Before shifting into a new era, you'll be given a choice of style. You can model your city after 
 ancient Asia or the English renaissance; from there, you can enter into a time of American prosperity, 
 European industrialism, or Asian development. Each era is more complicated than the last, heaping 
 on new responsibilities as technology advances. The gentle learning curve makes this game a good 
 starter for new SimCity players.  

  SimCity veterans know how attached to a city you can become after hours of tweaking. That is especially 
 true in Creator, given that your time in charge spans multiple generations. You can share your 
 pride and joy with friends by sending them pictures of your city. If your friends happen to, for 
 example, choose an Asian style over your American style, they can send some of their unlocked buildings 
 to you for use in Free mode.  

  Progressing through multiple eras is easy thanks to some well-implemented controls. Using the stylus 
 like a mouse, you can drag and drop roads, buildings, and zones on the grid. Everything is organized 
 well, and the statistical layouts on the bottom screen remain mostly uncluttered. Handy guide bubbles 
 pop up whenever you tap something to let you know what it is you're about to use. Some of the icons 
 are a little too small, though, so you'll often have to tap multiple times to select the right 
 one.  

           Each era brings new buildings, some of which stick around for generations.      

  
 Given the large scope of the game, it's impressive to see what EA was able to pull off with the 
 presentation. Each era has distinct architecture that sets it apart from the others, and the buildings 
 are full of little details that give each city its own personality. Like in the Wii version, the 
 MySims characters make frequent appearances, usually accompanied by some hit-or-miss (mostly miss) 
 self-referential humor. They come to your office and ask for money, encourage you to build certain 
 structures, or simply complain. Oddly, the one place they aren't featured is the Sim Sheet, a word-on-the-street 
 feature that lets you know how your citizens are feeling. Instead of MySims, you get strange, walking 
 icons similar to those seen on bathroom signs. As for the music, it changes to suit each era, but 
 it gets repetitive quickly.  

  Built on a solid foundation, SimCity Creator offers hours of enjoyment, both in its Challenge mode 
 and standard Free mode. Despite a few limitations, this is definitely a step in the right direction 
 for the series on handhelds.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (5 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: heiachman
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 20, 2009 7:55 pm PT
Review:  with a pretty good challenge mode and awsome free play sim city creator for DS is probably the 
 best of the game series. the graphics are good for a game of its type, and its cool that on challenge 
 mode maxis and other people come to your office and give you differnet kinds of buildings, its 
 also cool that when the buildings are placed they grow over time to become bigger and better looking. 
 the modern age is the best for people starting the game because it all ready has everything so 
 you could just build things and learn how to play as you go. those were the good things about the 
 game, the bad things about it are that when maxis or the other people come to your office it interrupts 
 you when your playing the game and when disaters happen they destroy all your hard work that may 
 have taken hours to complete. other than those minor set backs the game is well polished and is 
 very good. i woul recommend it to anyone that is in to building things. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: one5841
Rating: 9.5
Date: Feb 1, 2009 1:44 pm PT
Review:  Pros: more variety of modes, slightly more detail, it's great that they've added ages, affordable, 
 shorter loading times
  Cons: VERY long save times. Some icons are too small but it's OK
  
  Real rating: 9.8
  
  This is the best sim city game in the 'ds' series. If you've played 
 or owned sim city ds then the interface will be easy to learn because it's VERY SIMILAR. This is 
 the most addictive ds game I've EVER owned. The interface is very clean and easy to use. The graphics 
 are very crisp and could easily compete with ARKANOID DS. It's plain fun. This game is very addicted. 
 It's very hard to go in saying I'm going to play for 10 minutes. You'll look at the clock when 
 you think 10 minutes have passed and you realize you've played for 45 minutes!!! All I'm going 
 to say is that this is a MUST for any simcity fan! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: flamesrule24
Rating: 8.5
Date: Feb 2, 2009 1:49 pm PT
Review:  Sim City Creator is a great DS game. What you have to do is you try bto make a city from the ancient 
 time to the future. You can also play freeplay mode which you have to unlock a age from the challenge 
 mode. You can make your city into a indrusty city or make your city in a non pollution city. Here 
 are some the facts why you should buy this game.
  With a lenghly challenge mode you can make a huge city with just a little time into it. Also you 
 have to unlock modes to play in Freeplay mode. IT's a good game because it has very good graphics 
 with a little screen and has a great sound. The sound for each era fits with era. Another reason 
 it is good because it's very easy to play. You don't have to look in the manual to see what th 
 controls are. 
  Simcity Creator has also bad things. Some of them are you have to press the icons so they have 
 the reading. Also it only has two save slots so you always have to delte stukk for every city you 
 make. Another reason is that the manual is not help. What a bummer!
  Overall the game is a heap of fum and will last you for quite a while. So if you are in the looking 
 company always look for simcity games and definitly look for this game! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: laurachinp
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jan 8, 2009 5:35 am PT
Review:  Sim city creator is a great game for the ds where you can build a city through the ages from ancient 
 times to the future. You can also play in freeplay mode and play on maps you unlocked in challenge 
 mode. The game lasts a long time, and makes you keep wanting to go back to experience the other 
 ages you didn't do in challenge mode. The sound is quite good and the graphics are very good when 
 zoomed in. Unlike other sim games you can talk to the sims as they walk around the city and get 
 an idea of what they want in the city. The game is realistic by including global warming and showing 
 what happens if you don't clean up the air and be eco friendly. 
  The cons with the game are that it only has two save slots which allows you to do two ways of challenge 
 mode, but unable to save freeplay or the other way of challenge mode. Also you can't go back to 
 previous ages you have experienced without doing challenge mode all over again, if you want to 
 take your global warming age city back to ancient time ect. 
  Overall sim city creator is a great game that almost anyone can play, because it is not to hard 
 but still gives a long gaming experience, and i would recommend any ds owner to buy this game. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: travular_17
Rating: 6
Date: Jan 2, 2009 1:47 pm PT
Review:  When I purchased this latest release of SimCity, I didn't have near the expectations I had when 
 I bought the pretentious SimCity Society for PC. However, this release wasn't too shabby. The game 
 has expanded itself into a bit of a architectural masterpiece fusing together several various themes 
 from eras of history. But unlike the Maxis masterpieces of back in the day (SimCity 3000 and SimCity 
 4) , this game lacked the "hook" that gets you creating for days on end. I was spent of this game 
 after only a couple hours in. 
  
  A strong point is that you can't see the entire game in one take. You have to play it a couple 
 of times to fuse all possible eras of architecture. But unfortunately, the DS only allows one to 
 do so much... and well, that can sometimes lead to monotony in a game with as much liberty as SimCity 
 has to offer.
  
  If you're an avid SimCity fan, I doubt you'll be too impressed but you won't think its a regrettable 
 purchase... at least not in comparison to Societies. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
