-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: SimCity DS
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/ds/strategy/simcityds/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 It captures the essence of the original.
 You might actually learn something.
 The music takes just the right tone.
 New data screens make managing a city easier than before.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 Demolition has never been less fun.
 You can't fire your advisor.
 Extreme lack of detail in the visuals.
 Needs more than one save slot.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Jun 26, 2007
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 7
Critic Score: 6.8, 30 Review (s)
User Score: 6.8, 567 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Electronic Arts
Developer: Aki Corp.
Genre: Modern City-Building
Date: Jun 19, 2007
ESRB: Everyone

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
The DS version of the popular city builder uses the original's foundation and builds a sturdy but 
 cramped game on top of it. 

  If you don't think city planning sounds like a good time, you probably haven't played the Sim City 
 series, the simulation devoted not to destruction, but construction. Though it lacks guns and swords, 
 it has never lacked for innovation, playability, or fans. But where Will Wright was able to build 
 the games into an empire on PCs, EA will have to settle for a hamlet with its handheld update, 
 SimCity DS. Even though you can spend several enjoyable hours placing parks, building roads, and 
 crafting a sprawling city, a few structural flaws make this version feel relatively small town. 

  Small isn't necessarily bad though, especially when it comes to handheld gaming. When you start, 
 the first thing you'll want to do is study the tutorial content. There are 15 distinct lessons, 
 but as you'll quickly discover, these are just the tip of the burg.  

           Who needs guns when you've got municipal zoning diagrams?      

  In case you've never 
 played SimCity before, here's how it works: The point of the game is to build a city on a big piece 
 of land that's been divided into a grid. Your city should consist of three types of zones: commercial, 
 industrial, and residential. For people to develop your zones, you need to build roads. You also 
 need to make people  want  to come to your town, so you need to spruce the zones up with things 
 like parks and schools. Once they've arrived, you want them to stay, so you build things like hospitals, 
 police stations, and fire stations to keep them from being driven away by the likes of fire, crime, 
 or death.  

  But before you jump into all this, you'll take a random personality test to get matched with an 
 advisor. The advisor seems nice enough at first, but then gets way too friendly. But not in a cool, 
 "What are you doin' after work?" sort of way. Rather, he or she will interrupt your labors constantly 
 just because some high school kid thinks the town needs more zoos or a bush caught on fire. Fires 
 are the worst because your advisor screams and then stops time until they're put out, even if the 
 blaze is nowhere near a development. And the worst part? You can't turn him or her off.  

  Before your advisor gets an opportunity to drive you out of your town -- or your mind -- you'll need 
 to pick from several pieces of land, each with varying amounts of water, scrub brush, and funding. 
 For example, an easy development would start you off with $100,000 and little water, while a hard 
 one would have lots of water but only $10,000 starting cash. From there, you'll want to build a 
 power plant, some zones, and a few amenities, such as schools and parks.  

  It sounds easy, but there's a lot of room for error, especially in the early going. Even with your 
 advisor and the tutorial, it's not hard to overextend yourself on your first couple attempts and 
 wind up with an unhappy populace and no money. Unfortunately, the game will take no pity on you, 
 so when your town is in the gutter you have only two options: start over or slowly manipulate the 
 taxes until you have money again. The former option is the best, because the latter option takes 
 forever. What, no social welfare?  

           Give us your poor, your tired, your huddled masses longing to plan transit routes.    
   

  Except, that is, for demolition. It's important to know that once you demolish something, it's 
 gone. That sounds obvious, but the game will let you undo certain actions. Unfortunately, demolition 
 is not one of them, so you want to be very careful. But there are two issues: First, this is a 
 DS game, so you might be playing it on the go. If you're trying to demolish a small area and the 
 car you're in hits a bump, you're liable to wipe out half your town. Second, you can't seem to 
 demolish just one unit of land -- the game insists on removing at least four -- so even if your hand 
 doesn't slip, you'll trash more than you would have liked.  

  But the game isn't all bad advisors and random acts of destruction. Indeed, figuring out how to 
 manage a happy, thriving community is very rewarding, especially because it gives you a new perspective 
 on something you've probably only experienced from within. Your god's-eye view of the city is enhanced 
 by several informational screens you can access, which range from budget breakdowns and quality 
 of life indices to crime maps. For example, you can quickly switch to a "fire risk" screen and 
 spot any fire-prone areas. From there, you can plunk down a water tower or fire station, extinguishing 
 the blaze before it even starts.  

  The more you play, the more the game's intimidating amount of information will make sense, and 
 before long, you'll be well on your way to organizing a giant, happy city. And once you've made 
 your way through all the difficulty levels, turning a piece of swamp and $10,000 into a bustling 
 metropolis, you can move on to save-the-city mode, where you can choose from several extremely 
 hairy rebuilding efforts. These are relatively short, usually saddling you with a strict time limit, 
 making them perfect for car rides.  

  That sounds good until you realize you can't save any of your save-the-city games, so they have 
 to be short. In fact, there's only one save slot in the entire game, and it's reserved for whatever 
 city you've been developing in build-a-city mode. This incredible data bottleneck means that any 
 time you want to start building a new city, you have to scrap the old one. Not only does this stifle 
 experimentation, it also badly damages the game's longevity because you can't revisit old towns. 
 Thus, you can never go home again.  

  Even when you've gone far beyond the ghost towns of your past, you won't see a lot of graphical 
 improvement in the bustling cities of your future. That's because the entire game looks a bit shabby. 
 The level of detail that made the PC and Mac versions fun to look at can't be rendered on the DS's 
 little screen with its handful of pixels. Sure, you'll build zoos and sports arenas, but good luck 
 picking them out of the crowd of teensy buildings. Fortunately, the graphics and the music are 
 on opposite sides of the tracks; the game's tunes are both uptown and upbeat. The theme is both 
 industrious and soothing, which seems to perfectly focus your mind on the task of designing the 
 city of the future.  

           With advisors like these, who needs rampaging gorillas?      

  The game's only online 
 feature is the ability to wirelessly send mail to other, nearby players. If you and a friend use 
 this feature, you'll unlock special buildings you can place in your towns. However, you can't send 
 the Sim equivalent of a Trojan Horse to pillage your friend's things and bring them back to your 
 DS. So really, what's the point?  

  The point is to have fun building, as well as probably destroy an awesome city with tools and data 
 that actually pertain to real life. No, you can't shoot any fireballs, but perhaps you will come 
 away with some insight into why the place you inhabit in real life is either so awesome -- or so 
 lame. While the game is steeped in infrastructural issues of its own (the lone save slot is almost 
 unforgivable) , SimCity DS is still a nice place to revisit.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (27 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: Michelley3
Rating: 5
Date: Oct 19, 2008 5:57 pm PT
Review:  Im sure if I played the game longer I would have possibly enjoyed it. This game , overall, hurt 
 my brain. I wanted to rip my hair out. I think sim city games should only be for consoles, not 
 handheld. It was so hard to see stuff, and there is just so much going on with both the screens 
 that it was so overwhelming. I'm the type that likes to relax and play a game majority of the time. 
 Well this gave me a headache, my eyes watered, and I felt completely lost while playing. I guess 
 if you are a fan of SimCity then go and try it out. My boyfriend enjoyed playing it, but I just 
 found that there was too many instructions. Too much to handle. OVERLOADED. The game just didn't 
 have me interested enough. I could never get everything balanced out with the commercial, industrial, 
 and residential areas. I could barely read the small writing that scrolls across the bottom of 
 the top screen. Just too much for me to take in at a time. Makes me feel like I'm getting too old 
 for games. That made me sad. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hb730
Rating: 7
Date: Sep 12, 2008 10:58 am PT
Review:  When I first got SimCity DS, it looked good but its limitations were obvious. The touch-screen 
 controls are sleek, but frustrating. The city adviser is useful, but irritating. The lack of pipes 
 is convenient, but takes away a planning aspect of the game. The cities are flat and unflattering; 
 I always believed terrain was an important aspect of the SimCity series and they just blew it due 
 to the DS's limitations. You can't make your own terrain, but there are plenty of ready-made options.
 
  Sadly, the second-largest problem with this game involves the platform itself: there is only so 
 much detail and so much of your city that you can see on the screen at one time. Scrolling is rough 
 and inconvenient, and there could have been more use of the A/B/X/Y buttons.
  The thing I just could not have forgiven EA for was the presence of only one save file. I could 
 have lived with lower graphics if I could have been able to make more than one city at a time. 
 For a PC SimCity player, this is painful.
  
  Now for the positives. Graphics-wise, SCDS is a major improvement over its previous portable incarnation, 
 SC2000 Advance. This is simply because the sprites are derived from SC3000 on the PC instead of 
 SC2000.
  The advisers (especially the robot) are humorous the first time you see their comments. Firing 
 the starting lady in place of the robot was quite a show. However, again, once you've seen it all 
 once, you can only glaze over the words the second time.
  The added fireworks were random, but a mildly entertaining minigame to give you a break from the 
 monotonous, gruelling nature of SimCity.
  
  In the end, I'd still say this game is definitely worth playing, as contriving a little city of 
 your own is a timeless adventure that will last at least until 3000, definitely (or so EA would 
 hope) . Don't know how willing I would be to invest in SC Creator, though. But do try this game, 
 if city design is for you. But be realistic: if you are an engineer, you probably won't design 
 more than one city in your entire life, if you even get to the first one. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BorkaBonum
Rating: 2.5
Date: Jul 27, 2008 3:52 am PT
Review:  So, I was looking forward testing a stylus-based SimCity game after playing SimCity for the SNES 
 just recently. Having the controls fluid and accessable was the most important aspect when I thought 
 about getting the game. But once I started it up...
  
  When I was unfortunate enough to start the game I was greeted with alot of talk and some quizes 
 which I couldn't care less about, just in order to give me an advisor I didn't want to have at 
 all. Once I got the advisor I was forced to have there consuming the corner of the touch-screen 
 I was off to create my own town. First notice when I got there was how stupid the interface was... 
 the buttom screen handles all the placements while the upper-screen represent the actual visuals 
 of what you've done. For example if you build a Power Plant it will only be visualed in a few colored 
 squares on the grid on the touch-screen while the upper screen represents the visuals of the actual 
 building. It might not sound bad but it's horrble as placement on the grided display is next to 
 impossible due to the extremely unpolished and simplistic design. 
  
  But even at this point the game was somewhat playable and I'd like to give it some time and practice 
 it, but then the major screw-up was about to uncover... The advisor. Once you click on a column 
 of objects to place, such as Residents or such the advisor will consume half of the screen telling 
 you what you're about to place and what it does in the game. This happends Every time you're selecting 
 that button and it can only be removed by double-clicking on the touch-screen. 
  
  EA Games totally ruined this game by their retarded design. The game was next to perfect on the 
 SNES but was now ruined by the advisors, extremely poor design, and so on. I wouldn't get the game 
 even if I got money to play it, it's simply one of the worst games I've played. I'm going back 
 to play the SimCity SNES now. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: crazy717
Rating: 4
Date: Jun 20, 2008 3:27 am PT
Review:  The game sim city ds is one of the game that did not meet expectations, and one of the reasons 
 may be that maxis the producer of sim city four did not make this game THE START: 
  the start of sim city ds is pretty simple you just take a test to see which adviser you should 
 have. Once you have got your adviser you can start making a city when you start making your city 
 that is when you discover it`s not so good of a game. So out of all my games I have to say this 
 is the worst of my games. And my collection is pretty big. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Paully3433
Rating: 7
Date: Mar 5, 2008 8:16 am PT
Review:  SimCity DS offers a fun little experience on your Nintendo DS that doesn't quite live up to the 
 hype of the PC versions. With a few qualities that probably will turn people off of the game. There 
 is also some positive features about it that make the game at least worth a try if your fan of 
 the Sim series. SimCity DS is based roughly off of SimCity 3000 so if you have played that, you 
 will notice some similarities. I have stuck around 25 hours into the game so far, just relaxing 
 in bed building my empire. Let's look at a few other qualities of the game shall we?
  
  First off, let's get the negative stuff out of the way. The first thing I didn't care for much 
 was the graphics are a little hard to see. I know it is a DS game and the small screens have limitations. 
 Sometimes you can't see what is going on behind a big building. Maybe a camera rotate option would 
 be nice, maybe there is and I don't know it . Another gripe I have with the game is that 
 it only has 2 levels of zoom, which makes it hard if you're building a long road or railway. Being 
 able to only save one city is a downright shame. I find it a huge disappointment they could not 
 save more then one city. The advisors can get a little annoying as well and for the most part, 
 don't help you. They might tell you that you need to build more hospitals, but 2 minutes later, 
 after you have just built one, they say you need anotherhuh? Little things like this make this 
 game only a ok-to-good game where it could have been good-great.
  
  Now that I have blasted it, let us check out the stuff I like about it. It is SimCity on the go, 
 perfect for those long trips or nights laying in bed, and yes I know you play it on the toilet. 
 The challenge of bringing a city to life is one that takes patience to behold and this game really 
 puts you to the test. For the first few cities I struggled bad to figure out how to build effectively 
 and to have good aura and quality of life. The amount of different types of buildings plus the 
 unlockable special buildings is great. I now have a city with Bowser's castle in it from Nintendo 
 as well as the Arch from St. Louis, what game gives you variety like that? Speaking of the unlockables, 
 the Save the City mode is fantastic. If you like not having to start from scratch, try to save 
 a big city in need of help after a disaster. On that note, the disasters provide a good challenge 
 to overcome, some you can't and I just suggest reloading your save game and hoping it doesn't happen 
 again!
  
  Overall I found SimCity DS to be a fun and engaging game that you can just pick up and play once 
 you get past the learning curve. For the value of under $20, I suggest going out and giving a try, 
 come on, I know you have spent $20 on worst stuff, plus I am sure you can find a cheaper used copy. 
 
  
  My final score for SimCity DS is a 7.0.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: coolestkid200
Rating: 3.5
Date: Jan 1, 2008 11:01 am PT
Review:  This game is very dissapointing; i borrowed it off a freind, played it once for half an hour- TERRIBLE!
 
  
  The controls are really hard and confusing and like i said its really stupid having only one save 
 slot, and also in game is hard to get eletricty and water and well... frankly sim city just isnt 
 fit for the Nintendo DS im afraid...
  
  The graphics are average- not great and not brilliant and you can hardly see whats going on.
 
  
  Gameplay, well as i just said- Confusing
  
  Value, not worth the money and hardly worth a rental either.
  
  Re-playabilty, well lets leave 
 that to you shall we? 
  
  Overall, Disastrous!
  
  Like i say in most of my negative reviews- Dont buy this game, dont even rent it!
  
  -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: LadyAngel89
Rating: 8.5
Date: Dec 27, 2007 10:38 am PT
Review:  I always loved the SimCity games for PC. Although, I never could keep any money and would get frustrated 
 and quit a few hours into playing the city if not sooner. With SimCity DS I actually played for 
 hours on end before I started to lose any money.
  
  When I finally understood the controls, and could watch both screens, I was even more amused. There 
 are a few things that I didn't like about the game though.
  
  *There are a few minigames that I've found so far. They're less-than-intriguing.
  *The advisor 
 is the most annoying creation on earth.
  *You get gifts quickly the first little bit of the game, but when you actually have to start researching, 
 it all stops.
  
  All in all, it's a very immersing game to pass time with, after a while though I'm sure I'll get 
 bored with it just like all the other SimCity games I've played. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: goldenheart234
Rating: 5.5
Date: Dec 4, 2007 7:37 am PT
Review:  I have been a huge fan of sim city ever since my dad got the Super Nes version over 15 years ago. 
 Sim City 4 is one of my fave PC games and rightly so. So when I saw Sim City DS one day while shopping, 
 I grabbed it without hesitating. When I got home, I started playing. I played about 3 hours, put 
 my DS down and thought that the game wasn't bad.
  
  And thats basically it. The game FEELS pretty good when you play for the first time. The graphics 
 are nice, if a little repetitive. The music is a little on the week side, but since you don't need 
 it, you can simply turn it off and listen to anything else instead. The controls are a little sensitive, 
 but very easy to use ( Until you're in a bus or anything else that shakes, more on that later) 
 and it's still pretty fun to build your own city.
  
  The problem is, the more you play, the less you feel like playing. The game has several flaws, 
 some minor, some big, that will most likely turn you off.
  
  First of all, the In-Game advisors are very annoying AND useless. Why? My city has pollution and 
 crime problems. I ask for their advice and what do I get? Some random comment about needing to 
 build more shools. Uhh... thanks, I kew that, but what about the pollution? Or the crimes? Bottom 
 line, the moment you have more than one problem at a time, don't count on them for anything. And 
 god forbid a fire or something appears in some forested area far away from your town, since they 
 then lose it and become completely useless until the disaster is gone.
  
  What else is wrong in this game? Ther's only one save file. That means that if you want to start 
 a new city, kiss your awesome metropolis goodbye.
  
  Also, even though the DS is made so you can play anywhere, expect some major frustration when playing 
 this game on a bumpy bus ride. Most actions can be cancelled, but not demolishing. I was just trying 
 to get rid of empty landfills, but one bump later, I had deleted two higly evolved industial sectors 
 and a seaport. And forget about trying to buid roads in those conditions.
  
  Add to this the fact that the gameplay is quite slow. Even when you do speed-up time, tax money 
 doesn't come in very fast early in the game. While this is true of many games in the series, combining 
 this with the other flaws makes the game feel like progress takes forever to happen.
  
  Bottom line, Sim City Ds was a decent attempt to bring the series to the DS, but there are simply 
 too many things done wrong in this game to keep anyone but the most diehard fans of the series 
 playing for more than just a few hours. It's worth renting, but doing that will most likely kill 
 any urge you may have had of buying it.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Jukilum
Rating: 8
Date: Oct 7, 2007 6:33 pm PT
Review:  SimCity DS isn't quite like the most recent edition, Sim City 4, it does live up to its title, 
 SimCity DS. It is mostly based on SimCity 2000, but it is definitely not a direct port. It wasn't 
 rushed out early depending on its name to sell either like was done with Burnout.
  
  The game has great tutorials to get you started, (I recommend you play them whether your familiar 
 with the series or not) and they aren't too long that it makes you fall asleep. Once you get started 
 in your city, you are immediately thrown into the action. After you put in a power plant and zone 
 some land people fly into town! There is a huge variety of buildings to place that will keep things 
 fun for quite a while. Like in other installments in the series, the hardest part is keeping up 
 your money. Luckily this isn't as much of a problem here, it is a lot easier to keep up funds without 
 your city becoming a dump.
  
  The graphics in this game aren't what they could be, since they could have easily made the graphics 
 look a little more 3d. The music and sound effects are pleasing, so there is no problem there.
 
  
  Additional pros and cons:
  Pro:
  *Unlockable buildings for paying research funding
  *Multiple advisors with different views
  *Landmarks unlockable by completing scenerios, including 
 Bowser's castle
  Cons:
  *If you're in the car while placing something and go over a bump, you will end up with a highway 
 through town hall
  *Constant visits from citizens get annoying quickly
  *The transportation system is overly complicated
  
  Overall, I would say that if you like simulation 
 games or just like playing with making a city, then you should probably get this game. If your 
 not into the simulation or tycoon games, you probably shouldn't get this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: trorie
Rating: 7
Date: Sep 8, 2007 12:03 pm PT
Review:  I really did enjoy Simcity DS. However, after unlocking all of Professor Sim's buildings and getting 
 to about the year 2050, I finally got tired of playing. Perhaps I'll revisit it in the future, 
 but I have no motivation for it right now. The one save slot is a killer, and the save a city mode 
 offers some variety but still not enough to keep you engaged for long. I found myself not wanting 
 to spend the time with it to unlock all of the landmarks, so I just entered all of the codes for 
 them. If you're a fan of the simcity series then you will probably enjoy this game. If you're looking 
 to get initiated into the series then this is a good starting point. If you're looking for a game 
 that builds upon the past versions and provides some new entertainment, then you'll probably be 
 disappointed. You might as well play it on your PC, unless you just have a desire to be able to 
 play it on the city bus or a plane. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: My_Name_Is_Sin
Rating: 4.1
Date: Aug 2, 2007 2:52 pm PT
Review:  I bought this game as soon as it came out because Sim City was one of the first PC games I truelly 
 enjoyed (although DOOM has all my loyalties hehehe.) The controls were weak and I could barely 
 see what the hell was going on. It would have been so simple to just emulate the original and add 
 a few touch screen features but they tried to make it cute..... or something like that and turned 
 it into a frusterating experience. I also thought it was very funny that when I choose a more business 
 approach to city design I was given the stereotypical asian business man (I find this amusing because 
 I myself am half asian.) Plus you can only save one game at a time. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: flyer2359
Rating: 8.1
Date: Jul 29, 2007 6:16 pm PT
Review:  This game is very fun but the graphics are based on sim city 3000 and most of the landmarks are 
 from aisia and africa and places like that hardley any of them are from the U. S. The gameplay is 
 very good. It's an addicting game at times but I would still do the pc versions if your not on 
 the road. Also random fires happen quite frequently. But thegame is fairly good. If your on the 
 road a lot I would give this game a 8.8 out of 10 for an overall rating but another downside is; 
 is that the cars are more like little blue lines besides actual cars. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kamerad
Rating: 4.3
Date: Jul 25, 2007 5:47 pm PT
Review:  This game has very bad issues. The game looks great, but its just Sims City 3000 textures slapped 
 onto the DS, but with very poor gameplay. It isn't very much fun. It is too easy, even on hard 
 maps. The graphics are kind of less advanced sometimes than what one might see on the Super Nintendo, 
 heck they have still pictures black lines for cars, rather than the motion black line animation 
 used on The original Sim City for PC. Let alone afte ryou build up 1/4 of a map filled city, the 
 game gets insanely slow, to the point you have to scroll the screen away from the city just to 
 speed it up a bit, did I forget to mention the advicer is the most annoying thing I've seen since 
 a Purple Dinosaur named Barnie. Though the game does have a few plus, it does look a tad better 
 than a SNES Sim City Game or the Original PC SIm City, however it feels far less advanced in many 
 of the key city building areas. You do get to research technology, which sadly eats up so much 
 of you're money it kind of isn't really worth it until you get a very large city with huge income, 
 if you're playing on a hard map. Did I forget to mention you can only build 1... 1 city? yes you 
 heard it 1 city, can't save a second without deleting the first. Atleast SNES let you have two 
 saved games. If you've played anything Sim City in the past decade, this game is perhaps not worth 
 your time. I'd would of expected perhaps something similar to Sim City 2000 but it isn't even that 
 good. For a long lasting Sim fan like myself who's perhaps played every Sim game ever made including 
 The Sims and The Sims 2. This is by far the most disapointing Sim game ever made. Even worse than 
 Sim Safari. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mr_Takisuteni
Rating: 9.4
Date: Jul 24, 2007 7:57 am PT
Review:  like any other Sims game this one can make time move faster in an entertaining way. The new featured 
 touch screen mini games are cool too. the game play is as smooth and simple as possible. Also there's 
 no pipe constructing system like be4 which was tedious and annoying. Making network with other players 
 is nice by exchanging water supply and another available deals. Filling your daily life schedule 
 gaps playing this game is one solution to your leisure. Don't forget to touch screen as fast as 
 you can on Christmas.
  Cool game play, graphics, menu arrangement, sound system and double screen exploit.
  in other 
 words this game is really FUN. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kkiirraa99
Rating: 7.3
Date: Jul 13, 2007 2:17 pm PT
Review:  As you can probably see i have given this game a 7.3 and the reason for that is because it is pretty 
 hard. Another there wasn't really anything in the game that would give it an above average score.
 
  
  This game was good and despite my score i would still recommend it and these are some of the reasons. 
 One reason is it is very fun if you think and take the time to learn how to play the game. Another 
 reason is it was cool making a city with all different kinds of national monuments like the white 
 house and things. The things that were bad about this game is that it was hard so if you get frustrated 
 easy this game is definitely not for you. Because at the beginning you will tend mess up alot and 
 lose alot of money and you might have to start your game over.
  
  And so this game is an okay pick but i would NOT put this game at the top of my list of games to 
 get. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jakobjoergensen
Rating: 4.6
Date: Jul 3, 2007 11:45 pm PT
Review:  With great expectation did I buy a DS and the Sim City DS game. As a Sim City fan thats a must. 
 I had in mind, that the hardware of the DS is less than PC and more equal an Amiga anno 1992, so 
 I didn't expect to see high graphics and evolved gameplay.
  
  The good:
  The games upper screen is the city view screen. Very good idea. The lower screen is the work screen. 
 No more accidental demolition of anything cos you can not see due to buildings and structures. 
 Good user interface. Music limited, known and fantastic (especially the use of stereo) . Undo button!! 
 No firechief that doesn't know how to put out fires.
  
  The bad:
  The game is flawed. Sometimes the water system just stops working on the graphics. This causes 
 no city evolution on the graphical side, though the citizens are content, happy and number of inhabitants 
 rising. Very slow even in small cities. Screen update on upper screen mysteriously fast (graphics) 
 and slow (scrolling text) . Too much advising that you can not disable. No sim life visual except 
 trains and cars. No underground network.
  
  Conclusion:
  At Gamestop it is possible to return a game within 24 hours of bough - this is one of those games 
 that is gonna be returned. Tried to play 3 different cities. All cities failed after hours of play 
 due to the water problem. Bad feeling to see the creation one has spend hours on turned into a 
 deserted city... - on the graphic side anyway. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Xantiriad
Rating: 7.2
Date: Jul 3, 2007 11:19 am PT
Review:  For: It is SimCity; easy to play; advisor editions
  Against: Stylus control can be fiddly; not train/bus friendly; only one save slot
  
  Everyone 
 knows SimCity and this DS version is basically the same game as SimCity 2000 but with the edition 
 of some Japanese style advisors and the cool disasters from the SNES version.
  
  The presentation is good with some gentle music and sound effects to accompany the functional, 
 if slightly washed out, graphics. City creation is via the stylus, and the usual assortment of 
 graphs, budget sheets and maps are at your disposal.
  
  There are a couple of problems with the game. Firstly, the stylus control requires some very fine 
 selection and movements. Trying to play SimCity on a bouncing train or bus is very difficult, which 
 is a shame because that is where I play on my DS most of the time (it works better on the plane) . 
 Secondly, you can only save one city, although you do have the large SimCity 3000 style multi-city 
 land mass.
  
  If you are a fan of SimCity then the DS version will reward you in much the same way as its big 
 brother counterparts. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Cozm1kaos
Rating: 8.6
Date: Jun 30, 2007 4:35 pm PT
Review:  lots of people rate games for visuals sound e. t. c ya thats fine but when it comes down to a game 
 like simcity DS you have to keep in mind its not meant for visuals nor firing advisor's the game 
 is more focused on in game content rather then visual meaning GAME PLAY of all and all the little 
 detailed things you can actually do to your town when i first played simcity i thought WTH but 
 as soon as i layed back and relaxed i got so into it wasn't even funny hours went by and i haven't 
 even noticed 
::::::

::::::
UserName: VauxhalI
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jun 28, 2007 2:38 am PT
Review:  As most of us know, this is the DS version of the popular computer city building simulator known 
 as SimCity. This little handheld SimCity is very similar to SimCity 3000, there are a few slight 
 differences for one, SimCity DS is much less intimidating than the original SimCity 3000, and 
 much easier, at least for me it is. The game adds an annoying little fly that constantly pesters 
 you: your city advisor. Which you cant really do much about, except ignore her when a little exclamation 
 point pops up above her head. The game also adds the use of the stylus to plan your city. You can 
 lay roads, power lines, and train tracks by gliding your stylus along the touch screen, you can 
 also set the zones this way as well, and demolish stuff, but be carefully when demolishing things, 
 because you cant click on the little undo button to undo demolished things like you can do with 
 everything else.
  
  So, lets review the pros and cons of this game. Ill do the cons first, since they outweigh the 
 pros dramatically.
  
  Alright, well the cons of SimCity DS. The game is very average from the get-go, first of all, 
 though its still entertaining. The first con in this game would be your city advisor, or as Id 
 like to call him/her, the annoying little fly. The annoying little fly will pop up the first time 
 you pop in the cartridge and turn on the game for the first time, reminding you that you will NEVER 
 get rid of him/her. First, you see that blonde haired milf looking woman, she will give you a personality 
 test, and from that she will decide for you a good advisor, I got one black haired girl who was 
 spoiled, I didnt like her so I was stuck with the milf, this was a huge mistake. I dont know 
 about the other advisors, but this one is absolutely annoying, there was nothing good about her 
 personality. Just like any other advisor, I suppose, she will clue you in on every little thing 
 going down in your city and I mean EVERY LITTLE THING, this gets extremely frustrating. When there 
 is a visitor in the mayors office, a little exclamation point will pop up over her head and she 
 will clue you on whos about to come visit you. There are a few different visitors, Lester the 
 geek, Candy the schoolgirl, Granny Agnes, and some PTA old fart that I cant really remember too 
 well. Anyways, theyll keep coming back to your office no matter how many times you accept their 
 proposals. Candy will purpose that you build more train stations and lay more train tracks so she 
 doesnt have to walk an hour to school every morning, and being the nice mayor you are, you will 
 sign her little agreement with some crude image drawn by your stylus. Phew, glad thats over with; 
 now back to planning your city. After a few seconds of laying some train tracks for Candy and her 
 lazy little school friends, your advisor will once again have a little exclamation point over her 
 head, and to your surprise, after you click on your advisor, Candy the schoolgirl will be back 
 to tell you about how the city needs more train stations and train tracks so she doesnt have to 
 walk for an hour to school every morning. You can see how this process gets a little annoying, 
 but fortunately for you, you can choose to ignore the little red exclamation points. Besides the 
 advisors and the guests at the mayors office, this game has a few other cons as well. One being 
 the fact that you cant undo demolition. Undo is a very useful tool, say you lay a set of power 
 lines in the wrong place, you can undo it and get your money back, but when you demolish something, 
 you cant do such a thing. So, when youre demolishing a part of your city, you need to be very 
 careful, because if your stylus slips and say, you end up demolishing half your city, not only 
 can you not get that part of your city back without restarting the game, but youre also going 
 to lose a good bit of money due to the demolition fee. Other than that, the games graphics arent 
 very detailed, so every section of your city ends up looking the same. And theres only one save 
 slot, so if you make a city, and you want to make another one guess whats happening to your 
 pervious city? Yep, bye bye!
  
  Alright! Onto the pros. Well, this game is still fun and has slightly addictive elements that make 
 it enjoyable, even with so many flaws. The stylus works really well with the whole city planning 
 element in this game, I just wish it was a little less sensitive, but its defiantly enjoyable. 
 The music is also quite up to speed with the original feel of the SimCity games, that sense of 
 impending doom the music portrays is wonderful and nerve racking at the same time, very much like 
 SimCity 3000 and SimCity 4. Another thing I enjoyed about this game was the fact that they added 
 a few new mini games: say if your city is attacked by king kong, you get to shoot tranquilizers 
 at it with the stylus! Or if your city is under an alien attack, you get to save the people and 
 cars being abducted by the UFO! Also, on special occasions, you get to set off fireworks with the 
 stylus, and sometimes you even get to poke at Santa Claus and make him drop presents. Another nice 
 touch to the game is the wide variety of land marks you can get, just look at the cheat page on 
 gamespot and youll be able to get whichever one you want without going through the hassle of actually 
 trying to get them in the game, which can only be done by sending mail to a friends city, which 
 requires wifi and friends, which not everyone has. The main pro in this game though is just watching 
 your city grow. Watching the population number go up is just a wonderful thing, and watching the 
 cash flow in is a wonderful thing as well.
  
  Yep, this game is filled with cons, yet somehow I am addicted to it. Despite the annoying little 
 fly aka the advisor, and the annoying visitors, the game is very enjoyable. But if I want to do 
 a legitimate review, this game gets nothing above 7.5, since the game itself is average. Very addictive 
 and enjoyable, but only for a little while, it loses its thunder rather quickly. Also, the one 
 save slot thing is really upsetting. It would have been much better if they made it so it was more 
 like SimCity 4, where you could build a bunch of cities across a map, but I guess whats done is 
 done, and I can only hope for a sequel, since the stylus seems very fitting, and it makes city 
 planning easy to do. Im going to leave the decision to get this game up to you, I enjoyed it, 
 but you might not. SimCity DS is defiantly not for everyone. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Omatic810
Rating: 6.3
Date: Jun 27, 2007 1:51 am PT
Review:  If you're a devoted SimCity fan, you can find a way to make it work, much like a devoted spouse 
 will find a way to make a relationship work. But the game's shortcomings come mostly from the platform 
 it's on, not the mechanics of gameplay.
  
  The touch screen makes modifying single tiles somewhat difficult, even when zoomed in to the maximum 
 magnification. It gets worse when it's impossible to undo demolishing. If you're not sitting perfectly 
 still (and sometimes even if you're sitting perfectly still) , it's almost certain you're going 
 to make a critical error and delete something that didn't warrant it.
  
  The adviser becomes annoying after a while. I won't go into too heavy detail, but imagine someone 
 nagging you about every little thing wrong with your room - EVERY little thing. While ultimately 
 helpful, you'll want to tell your adviser to take a few days off, which isn't a feature in the 
 game.
  
  Finally, the graphics aren't too great on the small screen. One of the fun things about SimCity, 
 as well as the rest of the Sim-series, is watching your creation (s) grow and flourish in detail. 
 This game crams too many things into the small DS screen, and things that are there tend to look 
 dull.
  
  Despite these shortcomings, this is definitely a SimCity game, through and through. The soundtrack 
 is perfect for city building, mellow and unintrusive (as opposed to, for example, trying to listen 
 to heavy metal while trying to think about where to put residential districts) . If you can find 
 a nice, still place to play, and you're not a stickler for graphics, you'll find an enjoyable (albeit 
 challenging!) slice of SimCity pie to go. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: krapsrocks
Rating: 6.6
Date: Jun 23, 2007 7:05 pm PT
Review:  This game at first sucked, it was clunky and boring. Then as most Sim City games do, it gets addicting. 
 However unlike Sim City on the pc, it gets old really fast. For one, it's repetitive and easy. 
 Second, the idiots who keep asking you to build this and build that get real annoying really fast. 
 Third, when you put the speed on fast it's like running a game on windows 95 with my friend's computer, 
 it's slow as crap. The headlines are supposed to help you know what the Sims want or need and it 
 crawls by so that by the team you finally read it two months have gone by. I love having Sim City 
 on the ds, too bad it wasn't much of a step up from the cell phone version of Sim City. Save your 
 money and play it on pc. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Possesed_Parrot
Rating: 9.6
Date: Jun 22, 2007 9:33 am PT
Review:  Sim City is an addictive, and exciting game. You can choose from so much options of things to build. 
 You can control taxes and more. You will build a plantation, depending on the color (darker, expensive, 
 lighter, less expensive) , you have to do almost everything in real life. You have to make sure 
 there is no pollution or trash problems too. you can choose the location of your city, and the 
 difficulty will vary. You can also, work to get all the plantations. Depending on how much residents 
 are in your city, the professor, will give you a gift. Overall this game is exciting, and fun to 
 play. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Thesimsfrk111
Rating: 9.7
Date: Jun 21, 2007 5:50 pm PT
Review:  Sim City DS is a game of strategy.
  
  And you DEFINITELY need to know your basic Sim City knowledge to play.
  
  Fortunately, there 
 is a neat little Tutorial section, for newbies or something.
  
  But its fun and addicting. I got it the day before yesterday, and its all I've been pretty much 
 doing or playing. $30 is a great price tag. This is my 2nd favorite game on the DS, next to Pok&egrave; mon 
 Diamond/Pearl. Thats amazing.
  
  But anyway, purchase it. Do not fret, even if you have NO clue how to play or you stink at the 
 other games. This one has tutorials ranging widely. So what are you waiting for? Buy, buy, buy 
 the game! It is awesome! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DirkDaDig
Rating: 8.3
Date: Jun 21, 2007 12:05 pm PT
Review:  When you play simcity you have two modes of play, where one is for you to build from the ground 
 up and other is for to save a already built city. Before you do that you are going to go through 
 the tutorial, which i believe is necessity to play the game. After going through the tutorial your 
 going to notice that the controls are little hard to get used but after awhile you will get used 
 to it. After getting used to the control your still going to get frustrated at times because you 
 have to precise with things like bulldozing which is hard to do on a small screen.
  
  After doing the tutorial, i started to build my own city saw a loading screen that took not a lot 
 time but enough time to be noticeable which was a first for me to see on the ds. After the loading 
 screen and started playing i saw a city with pretty great graphics that was way better than my 
 expectations. (You start with already built part of city if you start on a basic) This great because 
 your going to be playing this game for long time and it will better for your eyes. I don't really 
 listen to sound on ds games because they are usually not that special and for this game its not 
 that any different. One of nice thing about thing about this game is that there is a ton of stuff 
 to unlock and the game never actually ends which makes it have high replay value and worth the 
 money.
  
  One of things that is really annoying is the people who constantly ask for to build something ever 
 3 minutes and its really annoy especially when you already have hundreds of the things they ask 
 for. Another negative to this game is that useless assistant that you have and doesn't really help 
 you at all.
  
  Overall, simcity is great game that suffer from a few frustrating negatives. I recommend it to 
 anyone who is looking for a ds game that will use a lot of their time while they wait for the new 
 Zelda game for the ds or anyone who enjoys the playing the simcity games. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: drbob33
Rating: 8.2
Date: Jun 21, 2007 11:18 am PT
Review:  Sim City is a long running franchise with tons of players. I myself have every version of the Sim 
 City series, from Sim City- Sim City 4 and I will gladly be first in line to pick up Sim City 5. 
 With that said, I must say that this is quite a nice effort in many respects. There are lots of 
 graphs and information about your city and the graphics look quite a bit like Sim City 2000 (sorry 
 GameSpot, I disagree with your comparison to 3000) . City building is always fun, and it never gets 
 old to just lay out a huge residential sector and watch people move in.
  
  Now then, on to the problems. First and foremost, the characters that come to talk to you, the 
 mayor, are EXTREMELY irritating. It takes no more than 1-3 minutes in between each visit from some 
 random person asking you for stupid stuff that you have plenty of. For example, some soldier fellow 
 asks you for more trees quite often so he can have a more realistic training experience . This 
 is even with having roughly 1/3 of your city covered in trees to minimize pollution. Also, your 
 helper person is horrible at telling you what you need. For example, I had a power plant crash 
 on one of my cities that caused my bank account to hit 0 as well as my population in a matter of 
 seconds. That is relatively unfair if you ask me.
  
  So, I suppose it's a horse apiece. Get this game if you can deal with some minor annoyances and 
 you really like Sim City. Otherwise, Pass. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: royalpierre
Rating: 8.9
Date: Jun 21, 2007 10:46 am PT
Review:  First, I had to go to three different stores just to get it because Best Buy and other stores had 
 a delay in the shipment. I finally found it at EBGames. Anyway, i started playing immediately and 
 it does take some getting used to at first. I used to play Sim City 3000 on the PC years ago so 
 it took me some time to figure out the game basics such as how to read the RCI meter. But other 
 than that, the whole design of the game has changed to accommodate the stylus. At first it was 
 a little frustrating because I didn't know much, but after a few hours I was a master of the stylus 
 and really like using it. The main screen is the top screen, that's the screen that shows the city. 
 The stylus screen is the one where you decide how to build your city and it includes different 
 data and graphs. I give the graphics about an 8 because in far view it's kind of fuzzy and not 
 to many colors to brighten the world up. I know that's how 3000 was but i want a little upgrade. 
 I can't comment too much on the sound because i always keep my volume off and listen to the TV 
 or something. but i did listen to the sound for a little bit for the review and it was alright. 
 The game play is fun, it will take getting used to but you will come addicted. The replay has to 
 be a 10 because the game is only $30 and will take up all your time. Plus, once you feel that you 
 have had enough with your city after like 40 hours of playing. Well start a brand new city on a 
 new terrain and there's another 40 hours. Every game has it negatives, and here is my list. I am 
 hating the citizens that come to me and ask me for stuff. Sometimes they are helpful when professor 
 sims discovers something to help me out. Other times it's some lady asking me to put more hospitals 
 when i have a crap load of hospitals. Plus, the worst part about it is that they pop up like every 
 5 months and annoy me because i'm in the middle of something. So i decided to just say no when 
 someone wants to talk to me.
  
  Other negatives are, I don't like that the terrain map cannot be bigger or smaller. It's basically 
 a default size, yes you can pick to have rivers and oceans but the square footage will always be 
 the same. I want to build a huge city man, give it to me.
  
  All in all, it's a great and fun game that you will get addicted to. The price is good and it reminds 
 of the good old days playing 3000. I suggest anyone who enjoys city building games or strategy 
 to pick this up. peace 
::::::

::::::
UserName: chrisomahony
Rating: 8.3
Date: Jun 21, 2007 10:14 am PT
Review:  Sim City DS, relates to 3000. Its good to get a good solid strategy on the DS. This game a has 
 a bundle of un-lockables . Also offers cool modes. A lot of down time is spent in the begining 
 when you pick build your own city but the hours of gameplay will be rewarded. The touch screen 
 feels perfect for this game . Wish more muti player features where implemented. Graphics are so 
 so and some what medicore. Sound is boring music, but pumps up when something huge occurs. Gameplay 
 is there and solid. Value is truly infinite. The tilt is the best, a lot of things to do, with 
 alot buildings to build. Once again. Sim City DS, offers huge amount of gameplay with cool landmarks 
 un-lockables. The Japanese culture like style can be refreshing. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
