-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Skate It
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/ds/sports/skateit/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 Scribbling out your tricks is intuitive and fun.
 Deep skate park editor increases replay value.
 Online play is great.
 Custom map sharing.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 Sound glitches and repetitive music.
 Occasional recognition slip-ups result in botched tricks.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Nov 26, 2008
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 7.5
Critic Score: 7.3, 11 Review (s)
User Score: 7.9, 69 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Electronic Arts
Genre: Skateboarding
Date: Nov 19, 2008
ESRB: Everyone

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Intuitive controls and a lengthy list of features make Skate It a good choice if you want to go 
 skateboarding on your DS. 

  It's still a young franchise, but the Skate series already has two distinct features: its unique 
 "flickit" controls and its realistic depiction of skating. Each system the series has appeared 
 on has used the hardware in different ways to replicate the feeling of flipping a skateboard. The 
 analog sticks did the tricks on the PlayStation 3 and Xbox 360, while the Wii Remote or balance 
 board handled them on the Wii. The DS version features a stylus-intesive control scheme, and it 
 works beautifully. The slick controls and robust single- and multiplayer offerings make Skate It 
 a deep, authentic skating experience worthy of the Skate name.  

  There isn't much for you to do in Skate It other than win the challenges and move on. Instead of 
 having you skate around an open world like the PS3 and Xbox 360 versions, Skate It on the DS takes 
 after the Wii game of the same name and splits San Vanelona and other skate areas into large chunks 
 accessible through a map screen. Each area has a variety of skate challenges including best trick, 
 races, film goals, and more.  

           Grinding is a little easier than in the console games, but it still requires good timing 
 to line it up correctly.      

  Though some of the goals can be tricky, challenging you to perform some precise moves, the single-player 
 campaign still moves swiftly. After completing the required number of goals to move the career 
 forward, you'll be whisked away to the next map for a new challenge. Like the Wii game, this hurts 
 the laid-back vibe originally established with Skate. Without the cohesive open world, the game 
 loses a little of its soul, but thanks to the unique controls, it still feels like a Skate game. 

  The stylus controls are remarkably precise. Using the bottom screen, you quickly draw your tricks 
 on a picture of a skateboard. An upward slash will give you an ollie, while a diagonal slash will 
 produce a kickflip, and so on. You have dozens of tricks to experiment with, and most of them are 
 easy to pull off. Drawing out your tricks is intuitive, but it does take a bit of getting used 
 to before you can successfully pull off a long line of combos. Thankfully, the margin of error 
 is wide and the recognition is usually good. Every now and then, the system will fail to recognize 
 one of the more complex doodles, but overall the controls are tight and allow for some creative 
 skate sessions.  

  Once you work your way through the campaign, which could take between 6 and 10 hours depending 
 on how many of the extra challenges you go after, you can fill your time with the excellent multiplayer 
 and skate park creator. You can set up matches locally via single- or multicard play or hop online 
 and challenge your friends or random strangers to a variety of games. The matches we played were 
 lag-free and easy to set up, though like the single-player game, they still suffer from some occasional 
 slowdown. You can choose to face off in one of the many locations in the single-player, or you 
 can load up your own skate park and share it with friends.  

  Completing goals in the single-player game will reward you with tons of pieces for your skate park. 
 The warehouse you build in is large and the pieces are diverse, allowing you to set up some interesting 
 obstacles. Building is as easy as sliding a piece into place with the stylus. The best part about 
 these custom maps is the ability to set goals and challenges. You can place spawn points for a 
 number of game types and then send them to your friends to compete. Creating custom skate parks 
 is a lot of fun, and the easy-to-use editor adds hours of replay value to the game.  

           You can build all kinds of cool setups in the park editor, and then share them with friends. 

  Skate It looks reminiscent of the console games, and while not the most attractive game on the 
 DS, there's a fine amount of detail and some pretty backdrops in the various locations. Other than 
 some hideous faces and jarringly abrupt bailout animations, the skaters look great. They animate 
 fluidly and appear to have real weight and balance on their boards. The camera is set a little 
 higher than the console games, giving you a better view of the action. Sometimes, after respawning 
 from a botched trick, the camera will freak out and face the wrong way. It's not a frequent problem, 
 but it can be annoying in some of the racing challenges.  

  The sound design has been a high point in the console Skate games, but things didn't turn out so 
 well for the portable version. While it's nice to have actual licensed songs playing in the background, 
 it's annoying when there are only a handful of them and they repeat endlessly. The skateboard sounds 
 are authentic, but they have a tendency to get out of sync with the action onscreen.  

  With its unique controls, solid multiplayer, and deep skate park customizations, Skate It is a 
 great first entry for the series on portables. There are a few quirks and unrefined patches that 
 take some getting used to, but in the end, it's an enjoyable on-the-go skating game that's worth 
 a look from any skateboard game fan.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (7 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: hi0
Rating: 9.5
Date: Feb 13, 2009 4:49 pm PT
Review:  Ok, lets get into this right here. Career mode is not one of the things that you get done with 
 in a day or two. It took me about a full month. Thankfully, you don't have to do all of the challenges. 
 Wait, you're probably thinking "What's career mode like?". That is a very good question. You scroll 
 around a map of about maybe, 15 locations or so. You have to complete challenges in each location 
 to unlock new challenges and levels. While fun, career mode can be a pain at some points in the 
 game and a stroll in others. But when you get finished with career mode you are like "What the 
 heck? It's over". You get a single message from a character in the game saying something like this 
 "Congratulations you have completed career mode!" But it is worth it.
  While some are large and some are small, the locations are very well designed and very realistic. 
 
  The controls are very fun to mess around with. On the touch screen you have a picture of a skateboard 
 and you draw a figure or a line on it pointing a certin direction, and the skater preforns a trick. 
 The tricks are hard to remember, but it takes little time to get used to.
  It is very fun and addicting to play. I really reccomend it!
  You can create custom charaters 
 and there is even a spot editor! I reccomend it! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: screamandroar
Rating: 9.5
Date: Feb 27, 2009 4:54 pm PT
Review:  An Awesome Game Full Of Fun Stuff. I'll discuss some of the good parts and bad parts of this game.
 
  
  Good
  
  It's a completely new concept. It's 20 bucks (or at least in Canada) . It has Wi-Fi, which is mad 
 fun. It's long. Skate like a real skateboarder, rather than the Tony Hawk style. Edit mode is pretty 
 good.
  
  Bad
  
  It can be really hard. Since you choose which level you'd prefer playing, you can't always find 
 opponents on the map you desire to play. Only 4 songs on the soundtrack makes your head explode, 
 I just turned off the music!
  ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
  
  It's a great game, that's a bit difficult, but fun all around. I love it. It's cheap, and it has 
 lots of famous pros to skate as. You can get sponsored and wear clothes and skate decks of real 
 brands like DC and Alien Workshop. I really recommend buying this game. You don't need Friend Codes, 
 but if you want, give me yours. Also, it has single card play.
  
  Thanks for reading, and meet you in "Skate it"! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sk8more67
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 3, 2009 4:12 pm PT
Review:  Skate is a fast growing skateboarding series that has definitely improved on the skateboarding 
 genre for all systems. There have been many skateboarding games that have tried to beat Tony Hawk 
 at his own game, but have always failed miserably. Skate is the opposite. Skate has realistic goals 
 and skateboarding than Tony Hawk does. For example, in Tony Hawk games, you're asked to complete ridiculous 
 challenges. In Skate It and Skate, the challenges can actually be accomplished in real life with 
 some practice. Skate It has a few hard challenges, but is pretty easy for the most part. The game 
 has a unique "flick-it" system where you draw a straight line for an ollie. To do a heelflip, you 
 make a diagonal flip to the right (in Regular Stance) . The game has a variety of levels. There are 
 a lot of real life levels like Barcelona (Italy) , Rio (South America) , and more. There is the Plan B 
 warehouse and Frisco Freakout (Yeah, I don't get the name either) , too. After beating the game, you 
 can still have a lot of fun just skating around the levels (unlike in Tony Hawk's American Sk8land) . There 
 are no special tricks, but that makes the game more realistic. There is a nice feature where you 
 can make your own skate board and shirt design. You can also make a skatepark in an empty warehouse 
 with several parts to unlock and place. However, it's a lot easier to have fun with the park designer 
 when you start unlocking some fun pieces like the loop or big half-pipes. You can play and also 
 share your skateparks with friends online and play challenges you place in it. I say that the game 
 is a good buy for any skateboarding game fans. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Dark5tar1
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 1, 2009 8:17 pm PT
Review:  After the first Skate game, EA came back and made this as good as the PS3 and 360 version of Skate. 
 According to the story, San Vanelona has been struck with freak disasters leaving the city a ghost 
 town. That doesn't matter because the game is practically almost perfect. The graphics are good 
 for the DS and same levels as the first game plus new real world levels such as Shanghai or London 
 etc. Plus the Flickit controls are easier on the DS than the console versions. But like the flaw 
 in the Flickit, the tricks you intend to do, it will do another trick but it's better than skate 
 at least. The game's online is good but it should put more players in the online play instead of 
 2 players. Some challenges on the Career mode are difficult and frustrating but that doesn't lower 
 down the fun. Also, a favorite aspect of this version is the Create-a-Park Similar as the Tony 
 Hawk series one but you can use this online and you can add challenges and unlock new things. This 
 game is really good on the go and one of my personal favorite DS games ever. This is a must get 
 game. I rate this 9 out of 10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Hoodedrouge
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 14, 2008 9:08 am PT
Review:  Skate it is truly a perfect DS game for any kind of gamer, I personaly never liked Skateboarding 
 games when I saw this I researched it and decided to try it, Im so glad I did
  
  Gameplay 10/10
  
  Hard to get used to at first, but the controls turn out great and easy, and 
 very natural.
  
  Sound 8/10
  
  Normal Skateboarding sounds here, and some background music you can turn off (i always do some 
 annoying songs in there)
  
  Graphics 8/10
  
  Graphics in this game fit it great they might have scary faces, but its not to bad, you can easily 
 work around it, 
  my guys face is only one normal looking
  
  Story 10/10 This game has a amazing story that unlocks things as you go you might get stuck but 
 you can always win after some practice
  
  Overall 10/10
  
  If you are considering this or another game, BUY THIS! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pingp00p
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 3, 2008 9:17 pm PT
Review:  Having grown up with a skateboard never far from reach I have been looking forward with great anticipation 
 for skate-it DS. Loved Skate and can't wait for Skate 2. This game feels just right on the DS, 
 with the flick-it controls and decent 3D graphs I'm finding it hard to put down and even more difficult 
 to find a better game to play on the DS right now! It would be nice to see a decent zombie, survival 
 horror, first person, shooter for the DS or any system for that matter, but that will just have 
 to wait I guess. Dementium was cool and I am looking forward to Moon. Anyhow, If you enjoyed EA's 
 Skate and need something to hold you over till Skate 2 then I highly recommend Skate-It for the 
 DS. Hopefully I can get my hands on the WII version as it looks to be just as interesting. Heres 
 a game for all of us who were fairly terrible at the actual art of skate boarding and we can finally 
 enjoy the it without any of the pain and embarrassment! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: aninman622
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 20, 2008 12:03 am PT
Review:  if you are thinking about getting a DS game and like skateboarding or just like skateboarding games 
 this is the one you want. This game is done right on the ds. the controls are great especially 
 from what i expected when i heard that skate was going to be on the ds. the face of the skater 
 guy might look a little scary but other then that the graphics are solid, and also the way the 
 skater flips the board looks realistic coming from a person who actually skates and knows what 
 hes talking about. this game can be kind of challenging at times but its just the right level that 
 games should have. it may make you angry at times but its definitely a game you want to try out 
 so if your reading this and want a good ds game and aren't mad at what i'm saying by now then go 
 buy it and quit sitting on the computer reading about it, you wont be dissapointed. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
