-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: SNK vs. Capcom Card Fighters DS
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/ds/puzzle/snkvscapcomcardfightersds/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 Hundreds of collectible cards featuring familiar SNK and Capcom characters.
 simple battle system is straightforward and easy to learn.
 catchy battle music.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 Terrible translation.
 weak single-player opponents make the game too easy.
 a serious game-freezing glitch.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: May  8, 2007
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 4.9
Critic Score: 4.9, 21 Review (s)
User Score: 6.9, 109 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: SNK Playmore
Genre: Card Battle
Date: Apr 24, 2007
ESRB: Teen

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
SNK vs. Capcom Card Fighters DS is an often entertaining game, which makes its shoddy production 
 and localization especially disappointing. 

  In terms of fanservice, few companies do it better than SNK Playmore and Capcom. The ongoing series 
 of SNK vs. Capcom fighting games cram as many characters as possible into an arena and let the 
 zany matchups take center stage. Back when the Neo Geo Pocket Color was still around, there was 
 a card battling spin-off series called SNK vs. Capcom Card Fighters Clash. Unfortunately, the series 
 faded into obscurity after only two releases. Now SNK Playmore has updated Card Fighters Clash 
 and brought it to the Nintendo DS in the form of SNK vs. Capcom Card Fighters DS. This is both 
 a blessing and a curse because while it's a fun card battling game that makes great use of the 
 large body of Capcom and SNK source material, it doesn't handle the transition to the DS well at 
 all. With prominent rough edges and absolutely terrible translation, Card Fighters DS is a sloppy, 
 unfinished game.  

          This game is full of typos and broken English.     

  In SNK vs. Capcom Card Fighters DS, you play as a young card fighter who has to work his way through 
 21 levels of a tower full of brainwashed card fighters. These card fighters are being controlled 
 by a sinister computer named Max. By defeating the card fighters in a card battle, you can return 
 them to normal. So you go to one floor, fight four or five card battles, then move on to the next 
 floor and typically fight the same people all over again. The tower is split into two halves, the 
 SNK side and the Capcom side. Depending on which side you're on, you'll have access to different 
 cards at the various card shops in the game. Some tower levels have special themes, such as a Las 
 Vegas level where you have to wager cards or points on each battle.  

  The battle system in Card Fighters DS is extremely simple, and even if you don't have any previous 
 experience with card games, you'll be able to pick this one up quickly. Each player has a deck 
 of 50 cards. There are three types of cards in the game: character cards, action cards, and counter 
 cards. You can put character cards into play by spending colored force icons, which you generate 
 at each turn depending on how many characters you have in play. Each character card has battle 
 points and hit points, which correspond with strength and health, respectively. During your turn, 
 you can choose to attack with your characters, and if your opponent doesn't defend against your 
 attack, you'll damage him or her directly. The battle is over when one of the card fighters runs 
 out of either hit points or cards.  

  The character cards are divided into SNK cards and Capcom cards. You'll see hundreds of different 
 characters in the game, from such familiar faces as Akuma, Iori, and Ryu, as well as unexpected 
 appearances from non-fighting game characters, such as Phoenix Wright and Dante. In addition to 
 the basic stats and illustrations, each card also comes with a few sentences of flavor text explaining 
 the background of the character. Most character cards also have special abilities that can be activated 
 by spending force icons. Unfortunately, all that ancillary information is so poorly translated 
 that much of it makes no sense at all. Often when you get a new card, you won't know what it actually 
 does until you use it because the text is either unintelligible or flat-out incorrect.  

  The battles are simple enough that they flow fairly quickly. However, given that many of the character 
 cards have comparable attributes, victory typically goes to the player who can get the most characters 
 in play quickly. There's very little strategy involved in battle, but setting up your deck does 
 require a bit more forethought to make sure you have plenty of cards you can actually afford. By 
 using the default deck, you can easily fight your way through most of the opponents you'll face 
 in the single-player game. The opponents typically play conservatively, and it's easy to predict 
 what your opponent is going to do. As a result, with the most minimal deck management, you'll rarely 
 lose a battle in the single-player game, even when you reach the upper floors of the tower.  

 
  Because the opposition isn't much of a barrier, there are arbitrary and annoying roadblocks that 
 will impede your progress. For instance, some bosses won't fight you or let you pass to the next 
 level until you bring them specific cards. So instead of just beating the boss in a straight-up 
 card battle, you have to visit shops and talk to other characters to try to track down the cards 
 the boss demands.  

  Once you clear all 21 levels of the tower in the single-player game, you can play through again 
 in a new-game-plus mode. However, there's a glitch that prevents you from getting more than half 
 way up the tower in this mode. When you speak to a certain character, the game freezes, and because 
 you can't beat that character, you can't progress any further up the tower. The glitch is a seemingly 
 simple programming error that can be incredibly aggravating if you're the type of person who wants 
 to see 100 percent of a game. If you're only interested in getting through this game once and don't 
 care about collecting all the cards, then you won't have to worry about this glitch.  

          The card battles require very little strategy, but they're still enjoyable.     

  In 
 addition to the single-player game, you can play local head-to-head battles with a friend who also 
 has a copy of the game. You can also trade cards with friends, but other than the very basic multiplayer 
 features, there's not much in the way of bonus content in Card Fighters DS. Except for sliding 
 the stylus across the screen to open new card packs, there aren't any touch-screen features to 
 be found.  

  Because this is a card battling game, there's very little animation. The illustrations on the cards 
 look good, and you can view them in the card gallery. However, during battle, the cards in play 
 are so tiny that they're virtually indistinguishable. The backgrounds are all plain and simple 
 but at least inoffensive. There is a bit of variety to the rudimentary battle animations, but none 
 of them look especially flashy or powerful. The battle music in Card Fighters DS is an upbeat, 
 catchy tune that sounds good.  

  It's disappointing that Card Fighters DS received such second-rate localization and quality assurance 
 testing because the underlying game is fun and addictive. If there was just a bit more care put 
 into it, this could have been a great game. As it is, the game fails to realize its potential. 
     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (8 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: shurikenfreak
Rating: 7.5
Date: Aug 9, 2008 7:26 pm PT
Review:  Many video games in Japan have usages of cards, whether they be the main focus, such as this game, 
 or just be mini-games. Only once in a while does a Japanese card game video game reach stateside, 
 and this is one that managed to do so. Now, first off, the gameplay is not that original, it acts 
 like a cross between duel masters and yu-gi-oh, which I enjoyed, however. The card art is very 
 nice to look at, as you will see notable video game characters on each one.
  
  Now fans of the original series may be disappointed in the instalment. I personally never played 
 one of the previous games but I have heard that they played differently than this one, and the 
 art for previous games were all chibi-like, but the art in this game is just what the characters 
 really look like.
  
  This games boasts several problems that I would like to state here and not really dive into because 
 they are mostly just minor things. One is that you cannot walk around freely, whereas you must 
 use the touch screen to click on where exactly you want your character to go. Also, the enemy AI 
 is weak, and if you purchase a game from when it first came out, your game will have a glitch where 
 after beating the game, and trying to re-beat it, you will stumble upon an enemy that says nothing, 
 and you cannot duel him, therefore you cannot finish the game.
  
  Overall, the game is a fun card game, but just has a plethera of minor problems, and one big glitch.
 
  
  Pros:
  1.) Very fun gameplay, though not original.
  2.) Nice card art.
  3.) A good amount of cards to use.
  
  Cons:
  1.) The game glitch.
  2.) No Wi-Fi!
  3.) 
 You cannot roam around freely.
  4.) Weak AI. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: brandyinindiana
Rating: 6.5
Date: Jun 3, 2008 10:08 am PT
Review:  When it comes to fan service, few franchises do it better than the SNK vs. Capcom titles. With 
 such a large array of characters and games to choose from, it's no surprise that players should 
 be able to find and play as / with an array of their favorite characters from years past. This 
 tradition continues in the newest installment in the SNK vs. Capcom Card Fighters series, with 
 a release on the DS.
  
  SNK vs. Capcom Card Fighters DS, while a mouthful, is exactly how it sounds. You play as a young 
 man, originally named Taiki (although you can change this early on) who is dead set on winning 
 an upcoming card battle tournament. However, the game quickly shifts to a rescue mission when a 
 newly formed computer system named Max decides to take over everyone within the tower complex. 
 It's up to you to fight your way through each of the 21 floors of the complex, defeating brainwashed 
 opponents as you go, thereby rescuing them from Max's hold.
  
  Luckily, for players who might be beginners at card battle games, the title does offer a bit of 
 a tutorial to help you out, but even then, it's almost easier to jump straight in to a battle as 
 the English translations here are frequently grammatically incorrect or downright impossible to 
 understand. One positive here however, is that your opponents in each card battle will offer little 
 in the way of a challenge, which allows you some time to acclimate yourself to the system.
  
  Each fighter starts with a deck of 50 cards. After rolling the dice to see who has control 
 of the first move, each player draws a hand of 6 cards, which can be split into three general categories: 
 character cards, action cards and counter cards. Each card is focused around a specific character 
 from either the SNK or Capcom universe, with appearances from such famous characters as Dante and 
 Phoenix Wright along with a multitude of fighters like Carol and Q, among many others. Altogether, 
 there are 400 different cards available for you to use.
  
  After drawing your hand of six cards, your next step will be to move some or all of them into the 
 main play area by spending color-coded force points. For instance, to play the SNK card Charlotte, 
 you would need to spend once white force point and three yellow force points, while the Capcom 
 card Incho requires two white points and one red point.
  
  Force points are also used when you want to take advantage of any of your characters' special moves 
 or powers. Since force points are such an integral part of each battle, there are three ways to 
 earn them. The first is the automatic accumulation you receive at the beginning of your turn, depending 
 on how many cards you have in play each time. A second method requires you to move cards from your 
 hand into the discard pile while the third method has you commanding your current in-play cards 
 to accumulate force points instead of having them attack. However, the third method is the last 
 one I would suggest, as attacking should be your main action on each turn.
  
  Speaking of attacking, along with specificity in terms of force point allocation, each card also 
 comes with specific hit points and battle points (strength) . Obviously, the higher the number, 
 the stronger the card, so keeping these numbers in mind offers a bit of strategy to the overall 
 system.
  
  When you choose to attack your opponent, your opponent can either defend with cards of their own, 
 or simply allow the attack to happen. If no defense is planned, the card fighter themselves is 
 the one who receive the damage, with hit points being taken off of their own separate hit point 
 meter. Turn-based action continues until one player's meter is emptied or someone runs out of cards 
 in their deck.
  
  While each card in play may have their own separate attributes, every card plays similarly, and 
 since your opponents tend to focus more on stockpiling force points than on actually attacking, 
 battles are pretty easily won. However, the ease of winning takes little away from the actual time 
 each battle can take to complete, as your opponent will frequently guard against your attack.
 
  
  After winning a battle, you receive some CP (the game's currency) , which you can later use to buy 
 more card decks and even bet on later battles. Buying new decks is the easiest way to accumulate 
 new cards, even though you can also recycle groups of duplicates in the recycling machine in the 
 hopes of receiving stronger cards that way.
  
  While out of battle, you can completely customize your deck, adding and removing cards as you see 
 fit. While you're there, you can also take a look at the game's card gallery which shows you just 
 which cards you own, a helpful addition if you are hoping to someday find them all.
  
  You can also use your newly received cards and CP to challenge friends over local Wi-Fi, where 
 each player would need their own copy of the game. Or you could simply compare collections and 
 even trade cards with others.
  
  On the more technical side of things, the game as a whole is graphically pleasing, with bright, 
 colorfully animated shots of each character. Since the entirety of the game grid is located on 
 the touch screen, the cards themselves are very tiny, but the addition of close-up shots on the 
 top screen removes any visual difficulty that there may have been otherwise. But, it's not as if 
 the larger views on the top screen really help anyhow, as the aforementioned translational errors 
 rear their ugly head on the cards as well.
  
  The soundtrack here fares a bit better by offering intense, fast paced electronica tracks during 
 battles and calming elevator music in between them. However, since individual battles can last 
 a long time, the music does tend to become repetitive, and since the card battling action is entirely 
 visual in nature, sound in itself isn't absolutely necessary.
  
  In the end, true fans of the SNK vs Capcom series will probably enjoy this title more than the 
 average gamer, as the localization here leaves a lot to be desired. However, the card battling 
 in itself does offer a good dose of fun and even a bit of challenge to table-top card gamers that 
 are looking for an electronic version of games they might already be playing now.
  
  Review part of GrrlGamer. com. Full review and screenshots at: http://www. grrlgamer. com/review. php? g=snkcapcomcard 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: markofroy
Rating: 5
Date: Mar 8, 2008 1:26 pm PT
Review:  This is one of games you can't find this day. It freezes! After I spent about 20+ hours for beating 
 the game at first time, then I tried to start my collecting trip with 2nd game, I just fond out 
 that this game won't let you finish or go to the final step -- collecting all cards! I had almost 
 planned to get an other copy of this game, glad I came... But I'm still playing this game, because 
 i want to finish it! Those rare rate cards, such as "Kyo, Ryu, Ken, Iori..."etc. The music is bad, 
 every time you can hear same track playing and repeating again and again like there is no end. 
 Also you can't skip those simple and boring battle action graphic, you just wait and see the same 
 thing over. Yes, there are more than 20 floors waiting for you, if you stand a chance to go up ( 
 after the first regular game played) ... ... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: wads40
Rating: 6.8
Date: Aug 9, 2007 1:28 pm PT
Review:  When I first got it, it was horible, but after learning the rules and translate thier crappy spelling 
 it got to be pretty fun. My Brother picked it up and noticed the T rating for partial nude, and 
 the fact the characters like MegaMan were not portraid as the strong heros they were in their days 
 (I think he's just offended that a female character is stonger) .
  Game play is fun, but yaknow I'd love to see a computer online ver. or like everyone vs. everyone..... 
 pikachu vs. shadow lady.... I'd |_0\/3 70 S33 7H47.
  (i am now off track) .....
  one more thing, i bought it a week ago and have been playing on end.... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: magicaldropking
Rating: 2.2
Date: May 14, 2007 10:10 pm PT
Review:  I cannot remember the last time I was so eagerly looking forward to a game only to be viciously 
 disappointed.
  
  I have very fond memories of the original Card Fighter Clash on Neo Geo Pocket Color. Simple premise, 
 story and engine, yes, but at its heart, a CCG with near-flawless mechanics. When I had caught 
 wind of an update, my excitement was boundless. Updated graphics? New cards? WIFI?! Sign me up 
 yesterday!
  
  ... and then I actually bought it.
  
  Immediately, before even opening it, I had noticed the 'Nintendo WiFi' logo conspicuously absent. 
 Well, that certainly took much of my enthusiasm away. Ah well, at least I can get back to good 
 ol' card battlin'.
  
  Hmmm.. the old free-roaming explorative RPG style has been replaced with a rather linear 'waypoint' 
 movement system. Hmm.. well, I guess by limitting content, they can focus on the card play, right? 
 Hm.. what's this? My playspace has been increased from 3 slots to 8? Hmm.. that kinda cripples 
 some.. well.. a lot of the old strategies.. oh well, in with the new, I suppose. Say.... is that.. 
 is that.. costs to place cards in play? This... this isn't Card Fighters! This is 90% of every 
 other lame CCG in existance! What have they done!?
  
  All SNK had to do was take the original and add WiFi, at most, updating the graphics and adding/touching 
 up a few cards, and they would've had an instant hit.
  
  What SNK has done with this game.. this franchise.. is the equivalent of someone being told all 
 you have to do to win a million dollars.. is sit in this chair and that person somehow ends up 
 robbing a bank instead. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Varkyle
Rating: 4.9
Date: May 13, 2007 11:23 pm PT
Review:  Since I've always loved the original Neo Geo versions of the Card Fighter series, I was hoping 
 they'd bring back the feel of the game onto the DS. Not to say the Japanese version of the game 
 isn't good, but sadly the folks over at snkplaymore for the American version just didn't game test 
 the game. It also at times seems as though they only put HALF effort into what could of been something 
 along the lines of Yugioh... often noticing simple spelling and grammar errors... as well as without 
 a lot of translation and game play errors. Thus the game suffered from what one didn't know of 
 the special powers that each of the cards had. Half the time one had to guess and play them just 
 to see how it was used. Instead of explaining the directions clearly for the player to understand 
 the usage of so said card. One fine example is Juni's card that requires (1) colorless energy &amp; 
 1 red energy. In the American version the power of the card says something along the lines of discarding 
 a card to raise this character card by 100 BP... her cost of doing this special required (2) red 
 energies. Meaning regardless of whatever card discarded into your discard pile at random in your 
 hand + pay the (2) red energies will increase the attack power, by BP +100... Now when I tossed 
 a card, instead I noticed it went up not +100 but by +300?! Which isn't bad but it totally isn't 
 what her ability is! It wasn't until I visited the Japanese website of the Japanese version and 
 clicked on her card to read that it was in fact raising the attack BP +300...
  
  http://game. snkplaymore. co. jp/official/cardfighters-ds/
  
  So why was it so hard to translate 
 that? Last but not least, I swear someone needed to fire the nimrod that game tested the American 
 version. I mean who in the world game tests a game and totally MISS out a FATAL flaw in a game 
 that prevents the player to finish the game? After you finish the regular game to unlock New Game+ 
 and reach the 9th floor, you'll talk to a character NPC named John which will say one line over 
 and over to cause the game to crash, thus preventing one from ever progressing beyond the 9th floor 
 cause he for some odd reason will KEEP spewing out the same line and won't battle you. Did I mention 
 there's 20+ floors in the game? Not to mention that there are two sides of the tower and that he's 
 on both sides regardless of which side you choose? This totally blow chunks! So some would say 
 oh but you did finish the game on regular! But seriously, you haven't because all of the rare special 
 cards, like the rarity (A) &amp; (S) class cards and most likely some of the more popular and well 
 known characters... not to mention some that are favorites of are unattainable! In example: to 
 name a few... Sakura Kasugano, Morrigan, Lilith, Ken Masters, Ryu &amp; Chun Li...
  
  Thankfully Snkplaymore was nice to plan a recall program for those who have already bought a defective 
 copy! But still imagine all those hours that some have spent trying to collect all the cards just 
 to find out that they couldn't collect them all? I myself spent 20+ hours with over 150 card battles 
 played not just in Story mode but also in Battle Mode to unlock two (S) rarity cards. I'm hoping 
 there's a way that they'll be doing for those who wish to keep the defective one and trade out 
 the cards that are inside the defective cartridges... and onto the new ones whenever the new ones 
 get shipped. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: StillWingless
Rating: 4.8
Date: May 9, 2007 1:12 pm PT
Review:  I was never able to play Card Fighters on the Neo Geo Pocket, even though I always wanted to. The 
 art for the cards would pop up on the internet every once in a while, and eventually became part 
 of a LiveJournal fad, but I never had the chance to play it. However, when I saw that Card Fighters 
 was coming to the DS, I was naturally drawn to it. Knowing that the release would be small, I jumped 
 on it as soon as I could. The box art and manual made the game look pretty nice, and I was excited 
 to get a chance to play the game.
  
  Starting up, I ignored the story, knowing that a card battle game wouldn't have any major plot 
 twists. However, I wouldn't have had an easy time with the story, had I cared. The spotty translation 
 and painful localization made certain areas hard to understand, and other areas absolutely cringe-worthy. 
 By the time I reached the tutorial, I realized that there was no hope for the game's translation. 
 The tutorial sequences were grammatically bad and woefully terse, essentially teaching me nothing 
 about how to play the game. So I played the game. I'm not sure how I managed the massive come-from-behind 
 victory that was my first card battle. By the first boss fight, I had somehow mastered the basics 
 and come through with a perfect fight record. However, by the second floor, I found myself bored. 
 The AI was steady and predictable. I didn't see much increase in the game's difficulty, just increases 
 in card strengths as I moved from one tedious battle to the next. The game didn't give me much 
 to look forward to graphically, either. The still-standing characters with blinking eyes and moving 
 mouths seemed more at home in an older game, and their jagged, gif-like edges detracted from the 
 artist's effort. The card art was nice, but the simplistic battle animations didn't give me much 
 else to look at. The translation would also rear its ugly head from time to time, reminding me 
 that I wasn't sure why I was playing this game.
  
  I was bored. I never even got to the ominous game-ending glitch that seems to plague the first 
 lot of this game's release.
  
  I returned the game to work the next day, deleted my save file and moved on with my life. Maybe 
 someone else will be happier with it than I was... but I highly doubt it. If they don't fall out 
 of their chair laughing at an old man that says, Take a chill pill! , then they'll probably play 
 long enough to realize that they should have waited for the poor game's price to drop. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: FlawlessSeasons
Rating: 3.5
Date: May 8, 2007 6:13 pm PT
Review:  This game has singlehandedly destroy my great memories of this series. The NeoGeo Pocket Color 
 SNK vs Capcom Card Fighters game was GREAT, I loved that game more than a lot of my Gameboy games. 
 The battle system was simple and easy plus there were tons of familiar faces in the game. SNK vs 
 Capcom CFDS is just... terrible. It took every good thing about the past game and screwed it up
 
  
  The battle system is now a mess where you can put as many cards as you want on the field aside 
 from the standard 3 card max in the old one, but this time you have to pay to play your cards, 
 and I still can't figure out for the life of me how to actually do that. You always end up with 
 an abundance in one type of force or whatever the hell its called, and are always in need of crap 
 you don't have. So the easy and lovable battle system, GONE. SIX FEET UNDER!
  
  Other gripes with this game:
  
  terrible translation: this game knows no bounds in crappy translations. 
 I'll let some games like Harvest Moon for instance slide, but finding a complete grammatically 
 correct sentence in this game is like going straight to the last page in where's Waldo and trying 
 to find Waldo. BROKEN: the game is literally broken, you can't get past a certain pint with out 
 an action replay thing. How the hell can they ship a game with this kind of game ending glitch.
 
  
  in the end, I've just grown to hate SNK Playmore after suffering through a minute of this game. 
 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
