-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Sonic Chronicles: The Dark Brotherhood
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/ds/rpg/sonicrpg/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 Nails the Sonic universe.
 Excellent presentation.
 Very player-friendly.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 Boring, shallow fetch quests and objectives.
 Dull storyline.
 Arduous, slow battles.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Oct 10, 2008
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 6.5
Critic Score: 7.4, 48 Review (s)
User Score: 7.9, 510 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Sega
Developer: BioWare
Genre: Role-Playing
Date: Sep 30, 2008
ESRB: Everyone

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Sonic's first foray into the role-playing realm is a laudable effort, but it ultimately falls short 
 of its potential. 

  Sonic the Hedgehog might not be on the tip of your tongue when you think of role-playing games, 
 but esteemed developer BioWare has blended the two in Sonic Chronicles: The Dark Brotherhood. Shallow 
 fetch quests, an uninteresting plot, and a tiring battle system can leave you bored out of your 
 mind at times, but the game capitalizes on the Sonic universe by including a variety of the franchise's 
 famous characters and makes refreshing use of the touch screen.  

           The comic book-style presentation pairs very well with Sonic's universe.      

  BioWare 
 has done a nice job utilizing series lore to re-create Sonic's world. The game opens with the rambunctious 
 Sonic exploring a new land when Tails informs him that Knuckles has disappeared along with the 
 chaos emeralds. Never one to pass up the action, Sonic embarks on a journey to locate Knuckles 
 and collect those pesky emeralds. Along the way you'll meet up with such mainstays as Amy and Shadow, 
 as well as experience BioWare's signature dialogue branches with a fresh Sonic twist. Regrettably, 
 the storyline is distressingly dull and the dialogue options don't impact the gameplay, which is 
 more than mildly disappointing.  

  Dark Brotherhood's gameplay is very player-friendly, making it a great introduction to the genre. 
 The top screen houses a map marked with stage objectives while tutorials are activated for nearly 
 every gameplay mechanic. Maneuvering Sonic is easily done by touching the screen a short distance 
 in front of him and dragging the stylus to make Sonic run in that direction; however, the controls 
 are slightly less responsive when you're trying to dodge opponents on the field. Those who expect 
 to pair interesting objectives with the game's simplicity will be dissatisfied with its monotonous, 
 effortless fetch quests; even the primary objectives are a cinch. They amount to nothing more than 
 a handful of fights, a switch, and a boss encounter, leaving nothing but touch-screen mastery for 
 a mild challenge.  

  Much of the gameplay is focused on traversing movement-based puzzles on the field; these puzzles 
 require you to use character-specific movement abilities, like Tails' flight, which is perfect 
 for crossing gaps. This encourages you to cycle through party members to access their different 
 movement abilities; however, you can only do this at your base. This is highly frustrating because 
 it's not always convenient for you to return to base just to exchange party members. You'll also 
 make frequent trips back to base to restore your party because the limited coins you'll encounter 
 on the field force you to conserve expensive healing items and save for gear. You should expect 
 plenty of irksome backtracking in your quest for health points and coinage.  

  A unique battle system distinguishes Dark Brotherhood from its competition. Rather than utilize 
 the stylus for just menu navigating or field maneuvering, the game incorporates touch-screen prompts 
 for special power move attacks along with a healthy variety of power moves for maintaining interest. 
 Each power move contains several prompt segments that have you tap or follow circles across the 
 screen; and while the prompts initially feel a little strange, you'll quickly find yourself mastering 
 the system. Additionally, enemies with elemental weaknesses add welcome complexity by emphasizing 
 strategic play; you'll have to use the right elemental power moves against foes protected from 
 certain elements.  

  While the battle system is innovative and starts off feeling dynamic, it quickly becomes wearisome 
 and slow. You can spend four minutes fighting the most basic of disadvantaged opponents because 
 you have to sit through the touch-screen prompts to use or dodge power moves. This gets especially 
 irritating when you progress to formidable opponents with high health and cheap healing abilities, 
 which drains the battle system of any remaining excitement. Moreover, the prompts rarely make much 
 of a difference beyond simply hitting or missing a target. You can nail the prompt for an attack 
 and barely do more damage than if you had missed most of its segments. Or you might miss every 
 portion and still do significant damage, which almost renders the prompts pointless.  

  Chase segments and chao collecting help alleviate some of the battle system's tedium. The chase 
 segments are enjoyable minigames activated whenever you or your opponent flees from battle; you'll 
 guide your teammates over obstacles in order to escape or catch runaway enemies, and while this 
 event is triggered frequently, it's usually exciting. The chao system allows for additional strategy 
 and character customization, as each chao creature applies a unique effect to its bonded character, 
 such as increased health points. You'll likely enjoy tweaking your party members, as well as adjusting 
 standard character stats, though the game limits stat customization by forcing you to focus on 
 attacks to increase your accuracy -- assuming you want to hit anything.  

  Dark Brotherhood's impressive comic book design pairs remarkably well with Sonic's realm, vividly 
 portraying Sonic's trademark attitude in short dialogue sequences and striking, heavily stylized 
 cutscenes. Detailed 3D character models fluidly maneuver the game's colorful, 2D field displayed 
 on the bottom screen. The models receive an even higher attention to detail on primitive 3D battle 
 environments where they perform power moves with plenty of graphical flash. The music falls far 
 short of offering compelling tracks, but it feels appropriate, providing an adequate backdrop for 
 Sonic's traditional swooshing and buzzing as he dashes through loops or soars through the air. 

           Touch-screen prompts activate flashy power moves.      

  It should take you a good 15 hours to finish the game's 10 chapters, but most of this time is wasted 
 completing shallow, meaningless tasks or fighting lengthy battles due to the touch-screen prompts. 
 The multicard multiplayer option is a pathetic inclusion that might as well have been left out 
 because it limits you to chao trading in that feverish "collect em' all" spirit; there is no option 
 to battle your friends, which is disheartening considering how well suited the battle system is 
 for competitive multiplayer. You can complete the game a second time, keeping all your unlocked 
 goodies and levels. However, the inability to adjust character stats beyond level 20 and the lack 
 of competitive multiplayer make this a moot point.  

  Sonic Chronicles: Dark Brotherhood is a decent mix of everyone's favorite hedgehog with the role-playing 
 genre, but you expect a more engrossing storyline and challenging gameplay from a company as experienced 
 as BioWare. As it stands, the game offers little more than touch-screen battle prompts and Sonic 
 nostalgia.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (50 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: Lefevrered
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 19, 2009 1:03 pm PT
Review:  Not bad to be honest but it could have been so much better. For a atart, the graphics are what 
 really make it fail. Many disliked the turned based fighting that is certainly new to the sonic 
 franchise but to be honest, did you really expect anything else for a first attempt at an rpg? 
 
  
  I acyually really enjoyed this game and have played it through at least three times. the ending 
 is some what unsatisfying to be fair but leaves it open for a sequel with a great story.
  
  The next game should be much better, the grahpics will most likely be improved along with larger 
 playing fields to explore and a wider range of characters.
  
  Shade is an awsome new character to the sonic franchise, and should, i'm sure you agree, remain 
 a handheld only character similar to that of eggman nega and marine from sonic rush adventure, 
 sonic rivals etc.
  
  Overall 10/10
  you gotta be fair though, it did make way for some of the ideas used in sonic unleashed eg. level 
 upgrades and new techniques.
  
  Lefevrered 
  Only the sith deal in absolutes - Obi-wan Kenobi 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TheActionGuy
Rating: 8.5
Date: Mar 11, 2009 10:08 pm PT
Review:  Sonic Chronicles: The dark brother hood is awesome, it feels like a sonic game as well as having 
 a strong RPG element. It is truly a must own for any Sonic/RPG fan.
  
  Story: The game is set a year after Sonic and his friends have defeated Dr. Eggman, while traveling 
 around the world, Sonic gets a call from Tails and learns that Knuckles and been kidnapped by a 
 mysterious new enemy called the Marauders, and the worlds chaos emeralds are disappearing. While 
 this is a good story the pacing is a little bit of, it does have it's fair share of turning points, 
 but it seems like the sort of thing that would happen in a cartoon. The highlights of the story 
 are the comic book inspired cutscenes which last only briefly, but they rock none the less.
  
  Gameplay: You play as either Sonic or one of his friends as you explore vast and different 
 environments the game has to offer. While your exploring you may come across an icon, you switch 
 to the right character to preform an action with the tap of the L or R buttons, this will include 
 having sonic run around loops or Tails flying from one point to another. Instead of random battles 
 you have to bump into enemies to trigger battles, during the battles you pull of POW moves which 
 are the games special moves, to do this have to preform a certain kind of action with the stylus 
 pen such as taping the screen at the right moment or dragging the stylus across the screen. This 
 works surprisingly well since many of these are easy to pull of. Aside from individual POW moves 
 there is also team moves which require more than one character and both have to use up POW energy, 
 but there are more powerful and great to use. The only complaint i have with this is that some 
 are unforgiving, mainly the support moves like when your trying to heal one character with another, 
 if you screw up once then you don't get to continue and you've wasted your POW points. These battle 
 can also drag on for a little bit to long mainly because you will fight tougher enemies in the 
 game with more health and more defense, some enemies are just to strong and take to long to take 
 down, but that still doesn't ruin the battle system.
  
  Design: You move your character using the stylus pen much like in Zelda: Phantom hourglass, again 
 this works since you can steer Sonic in any direction pretty easily. You will never get lost thanks 
 to the map on the top screen which tells you where you are. Also on top of the main quest there 
 are also some side quests that you can accept which help extend the length of the game, like there's 
 one that has you going of killing a giant queen wasp. The biggest complaint i have with this game 
 are the lackluster boss battles, the game has a theme song for bosses, but none of them are memorable 
 mainly because they feel to much like regular enemies, except for maybe the final boss. There are 
 also puzzles you have to solve which you need to trigger by talking to someone, these can be easy 
 sometimes but it's a little a tricky unless you ask the person for a tip which costs 30 rings, 
 kind of expensive considering you just want to know how the puzzle works, but again this doesn't 
 ruin the game.
  
  Overall: Sonic chronicles the dark brotherhood has a unique battle system, colorful design and 
 is just down right fun to play. It's one of the best Sonic games of all time. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: silverblur007
Rating: 7
Date: Feb 6, 2009 12:08 pm PT
Review:  Sonic Chronicles is a well thought out game, but it lacks so many things that made its predecessors 
 shine. The game starts out in the old Green Hill zone where Sonic receives a call from Tails saying 
 Knuckles has been kidnapped by someone who has also stolen the master emerald. The storyline itself 
 just isn't really worth going back and playing again unless you have nothing better to do or you 
 just want to complete all of the side quests. The battles are sort of hard and can really frustrate 
 you at times such as when you use some of your POW moves. The game relies a bit too much on the 
 touch screen and not at all the buttons, D-pad, or the microphone. Every character has something 
 unique about them that enables them to do certain actions in the game and help you reach your objective 
 faster. But if you really want to buy this game, don't let this review stop you from doing so. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sagax03
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jan 28, 2009 8:18 am PT
Review:  IM BACK. Its been awhile gamespot since i last reviewed a game but im back, this time its on the 
 blue dude, sonic the hedgehog and his first RPG lets see whys its good.
  
  Story-It has a very childish story, the begging is its 2 years in the future and everyone enjoying 
 the peace know that theve defeated Dr. Robotnic and his stupid robpt thingys Until one day tails 
 calls sonic up and tells him to come home because knuckles was kidnapped. Sonic returns and is 
 greeted with a battle with a maruder a dark robot thing he defeats it with amys help. They return 
 to station square meet rouge and the story starts from there when they have to free knuckles but 
 also find the mystery of whats happening to the animals that have gone mad and the reason Robotnics 
 robots are appering.
  Its a story where only a child would be guessing what would happen next its easily predictable 
 and in a RPG thats not good and its really short.. but then again this is bioware not squareinx. 
 
  C-Good-7.5.
  
  
  Gameplay-The gameplay is alright, its touch screen only even for a jump you can press the L+R button 
 to interact with stuff but to move just touch the screen the upper screen shows the map in the 
 hub worlds the bottom is where you move and choose a action in battle, you can have 4 characters 
 in your party at all times and at the begining you get ,im right of the bat."Magic" in this game 
 are reffered to a goofy term called "POW moves" and the POW moves are hard to get used to to use 
 them its just not selecting the action and using PP, you get this wierd line and you have to keep 
 your stylus/finger on it as it slides up down or curves new players and older ones will get frustrated 
 with this metod with lining the stylus (or finger) on the little circle and accidently sliding 
 of will result in a weakened or failed POW move. But on chapter 2 you should be able to get used 
 to it. Know combat is just selecting the "Attack" option and attacking the foe defending is the 
 same as same with items. But with fleeing you must switch to a side scrolling mini game where you 
 must jump over boxes to escape which is VERY simple same with catching a fleeing enemy. Next the 
 Characters, Bioware promised to go back all the way of sonics history but from the characters they 
 gave you it looked like they only went back to sonic heroes! You get  
 big the cat. Sound familer? THESE GUYS WERE ALL IN SONIC HEROES. AND THEY DIDNT ADD CHARACTERS LIKE 
 CHAOS OR WELL I DUNNO METAL SONIC OR WHY NOT SILVER ?Anyway past that thats all there is to the 
 fighting system.
  C-Good-7.5.
  
  
  Learning Curve-Its takes some time to get used to the pow moves as explained in gameplay but this 
 is a nice start for people who want to get into sonic.
  B-Great-8.10.
  
  Graphics/Design
  The graphics for a DS is nice but a little blurry.
  B-Great-8.10.
  
  VA-Theres 
 no VA so it wont count.
  
  
  Music-The music sucks but one song is actually really good.
  D-Mediocre-5.10.
  
  
  Overall-
 
  C-Good-7.5
  Its a nice begginer RPG but some sonic fans might be dissapointed.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: kbaily
Rating: 7
Date: Jan 23, 2009 10:27 am PT
Review:  If there's one lesson Bioware is going to take from this is never ever make three of the greatest 
 RPGs ever back to back because everything you make after that will have to live up to an impossibly 
 high standard, especially when you take on the daunting task of making an RPG based on a character 
 who A) has been suffering from a glut of mediocre games the last few years and B) doesn't seem 
 to fit the RPG mold.
  
  
  I've had a hard time reviewing this title because I'll admit, ever since I played the gold encrusted 
 gem of glorius RPG greatness known as Super Mario RPG, I always kind of wished for a Sonic RPG 
 but the fact of the matter came up in "Sonic is fast. RPGs are slow." And essentially it's like 
 the combination of lemonade and chocolate. Still in the hands of a great developer like Bioware, 
 it seems like it could work.
  
  
  The biggest problem comes first of all in the story. It's not terrible and compared to the last 
 ten or so games, it's nice to have competent writing in a Sonic game. The problem comes is that 
 as hard as Bioware is trying, the story fails to suck you in. In the beginning, Sonic and pals 
 battle with Eggman, defeat him and two years pass. Sonic gets word that Knuckles has been kidnapped 
 and Sonic and pals set off on a new adventure, teaming up with Eggmanagain, learning of Shade 
 and the Mauraders and a whole slew of Sonic friends show up including  
 though I'm sure there are fans out there having a fit because Silver or Blaze wasn't in this game 
 and Big was though at least in this kind of game they're actually useful (except Rouge) . Cream 
 will heal party members. Big can poison foes and Omega is a tank of destruction and I will stand 
 behind Shade as one of the better female Sonic characters who, like Blaze, actually acts like a 
 person and not a stalker tweener, a whiny brat or a skanky bat. In the end, the story lacks the 
 emersion that the best RPGs are known for nor does it have the brilliant humor of Mario's RPG. 
 However I will forgive some of this in that unlike Square's games, this one does not have an entire 
 mini-series worth of cut scenes.
  
  
  One thing it does include is Mass Effect's branching conversation system, but in this game, it's 
 mostly a distraction though I will say that being able to be a total dick to Amy will remove all 
 animosity you ever had towards her character despite her attempts to make Sonic jealous with her 
 new*ahem* "boyfriend."
  
  
  Bioware is clearly getting ideas from the Mario RPGs from timed hits, team based combat (though 
 Chrono Trigger introduced that idea) and using party members to traverse the enviroment. It's amazing 
 the Mauraders didn't fly in on a giant sword. Sonic travels around a top down environment exploring, 
 fighting enemies and collecting items. I do like seeing enemies on the field and not having random 
 encounters. However Sonic's land seems to be affected by the economic crisis in that you don't 
 get rings when you win battles, which is a pain when you want to buy health and POW (magic) . However 
 you almost always get items for winning battles and it wasn't long before I had enough POW drinks 
 to throw a kegger. Also scattered throughout the world are Chao eggs. It's nice to see the return 
 of Chao to the Sonic universe even if you can't really raise them rather, they are bonded to you 
 to enhance skills though sadly they are randomly generated so you may go a while before you find 
 one that's really useful, hence the use of the online "chao trading with friends."
  
  
  Sonic's pals bring their skills to the adventuring. Knuckles climbs, Tails flies and Big can get 
 through poison smoke. Though another petty annoyance rears it's ugly head in that you can't switch 
 out party members in the middle of a field. You have to return to what I'll call a "safe house" 
 which is like inns in other RPGs except you don't pay for it. You go to your ship, Tails's house 
 or Eggman's lab, where you'll at least be able to restore your health and POW. But many times you'll 
 reach an area and realize you need Amy's hammer to break certain blocks, or need someone who can 
 fly or Big to get through the smoke and you'll have to back track and this game is going to be 
 condemned to the four corners of gaming hell for having constantly respawing baddies. Also at times, 
 the maps can be confusing to navigate and objectives are sometimes unclear and while there are 
 a few side quests, they're mostly fetch quests.
  
  
  So eventually you'll have to stop exploring and get fighting and once again, tiny petty annoyances 
 creep in. The Elite Beat Agents stylus moves do add something to the fights and make you feel like 
 you're more involved as opposed to just selecting moves and watching the outcome, but at times 
 the game gets really picky about perfect pinpoint hits (an annoyance I had with Mario and Luigi: 
 Superstar Saga) and missing one thing can ruin your attack. You can also use this same system to 
 dodge enemy attacks which is good except for the fact that enemies often have the unavoidable basic 
 attacks that will chop off  of your health in a flash. Battles also simply last too long thanks 
 to many enemies having crap like evasion, countering and just your friends missing way too many 
 hits. One noteably annoying fight occurs between your friends and three SWAT bots (SatAM reference) . 
 They have high defense, 200hp and just as some sick joke from Bioware, you have to kill them ALL 
 in the same turn or they'll self repair making it one of the longest and most frustrating battles 
 in the game.
  
  
  Graphically the game has a nice look to it. Once again returning the more lighthearted, colorful 
 look of old games. Green Hills has checkered cliffs and of course the landscape is full of loop 
 de loops though you get the impression those are there just because they're "sonicky" like having 
 mushrooms in Mario games. Character models are nicely animated and very few DS games look nicer 
 than this.
  
  
  Music is a bit of a disappointment. Why Bioware chose music from Sonic 3D Blast is a mystery. Wouldn't 
 it have been nice to have the old Green Hills theme for Green Hills or Sonic Adventure's Mystic 
 Ruins's theme? The Battle music is good which is important in an RPG given you'll have to listen 
 to it a lot. Great guitar riffs play through the battles. I know the DS isn't exactly CD quality 
 sound but games like The World Ends with You prove DS games can have good music.
  
  
  I've had a hard time reviewing this game because part of me likes it and yet there's so many little 
 annoyances that break up the flow and despite Bioware's best efforts, the story fails to be overly 
 engaging. But as I play, it seems more like a lot of good ideas that just didn't quite gel together. 
 This does have potential to be a good spinoff series for Sonic, but it needs a bit more work.
 
  
  
  And Bioware, no one likes Big the Cat. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MadSomeone
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 22, 2009 10:19 pm PT
Review:  We have two confessions. Our first is that when we were younger, back in the Mega Drive days, we 
 used to love Sonic almost as much as we loved Mario. Our second is that in recent years we've grown 
 less fond of him, partly due to his hip new 'attitude' that he's earned which annoys us every time 
 he opens his mouth and says something with his smarmy voice. So when we first heard that a Sonic 
 RPG was coming to the DS we thought "sounds great... shame it'll have the new Sonic in it, not 
 the old one". Turns out we were wrong.
  
  Sonic Chronicles is old-school. There are no embarrassing wise-cracks, no 'rad' American voice 
 acting and no "oh my God isn't Sonic so awesome, kids" moments. In fact, one of the first things 
 that surprised us after we started the game was how normal Sonic has become.
  
  
  Sonic Youth
  You see, when the game begins it's been a long time since Sonic last beat Eggman 
 and he's been travelling alone on the other side of the world. Suddenly he gets a call from Tails 
 who tells him that Knuckles has gone missing and the Chaos Emeralds are gone. Sonic rushes back 
 to the Green Hill Zone and is reunited with his old pal but he quickly realises that things have 
 changed. He's no longer the hero who always saves the day, and since he's been away his friends 
 have learned not to rely on him anymore. There's a scene an hour into the game where Rouge The 
 Bat has a go at him for being gone for so long and thinking he can just come back and make everything 
 okay again. When Sonic asks the others if they feel the same way, Tails quietly replies "well, 
 you have been away for a long time". Even his devoted admirer Amy Rose shyly claims she has a boyfriend 
 now.
  You can't help but feel sorry for Sonic during this scene, and that's the big difference in Sonic 
 Chronicles. For the first time in years he's no longer this near-invincible hero: you don't feel 
 like he's cool enough to do whatever he wants and overcome anything without fear of danger. For 
 the first time in years you don't have the feeling that no matter how many times you make him die 
 he's going to end up saving the day anyway because he's so damn awesome. For the first time in 
 years Sonic seems vulnerable, and you feel like you have a duty to help him.
  
  Telling Tails
  It's this care and attention to the storyline that makes Sonic Chronicles so much 
 more than just an RPG with Sonic dumped into it. We had the feeling this would be the case. It's 
 developed by BioWare, the team behind such fantastic RPG adventures as Mass Effect, Jade Empire 
 and Star Wars: Knights Of The Old Republic, so the fact that it has a compelling story isn't surprising.
 
  
  
  
  Naturally, a great story means nothing if the game itself is a complete slog to play but luckily 
 this isn't the case with Sonic Chronicles. The gameplay is split into two distinct sections: exploration 
 and battle. The exploration sections take place throughout the game's various different zones, 
 which are beautifully designed and fit in well with the game's unique art style.
  
  You can have up to four characters in your team (you can choose who's in your party any time you 
 reach a safe house) , but for the most part you only ever control one of them, switching between 
 the four by touching the character icons on the top of the screen. Getting around is a breeze. 
 You simply hold your stylus on the screen to make your character run in that direction. The tactical 
 element comes into play when you realise that some areas can only be reached by certain characters. 
 Only Sonic has enough speed to use loop-the-loops and get up large ramps, only Tails and Rouge 
 can fly over large gaps, only Knuckles can climb and so on. Since you only have four characters 
 in your team and there are more than four different types of obstacle, you have to plan ahead and 
 decide which team is the best for exploring certain areas.
  
  Brass Knuckles
  There are a total of eleven playable characters who can end up joining your team. These characters 
 are added as the story progresses: when you start the game you're on your own as Sonic, then Amy 
 Rose joins you shortly afterward, then you team up with Tails and so forth. Some characters, like 
 Cream the Rabbit, only join you when you perform a task for them (in this case finding Cheese, 
 her favourite Chao) . Other characters are added to your team as the story progresses, and include 
 familiar faces like Knuckles, Big The Cat and (sigh) Shadow. There are even one or two rather surprising 
 additions to the party as the story progresses, including the person you'd least expect to help 
 Sonic (look at the panel opposite if you can't guess) .
  
  
  
  We haven't even touched on the battle side of things yet of course, and that's naturally the aspect 
 of the game that could either make it or break it. In this case it's a neatly designed system which 
 fits in well with the speedy nature of the characters involved. Fights are basically turn-based 
 affairs, but each fight consists of rounds. Each character gets a certain number of turns per round 
 depending on their experience (Sonic gets three, Cream only gets one) , and you choose their moves 
 before each round. You can assign standard attacks by tapping on the move then tapping on the enemy 
 you want to attack. This results in your character running over and smacking your opponent in typical 
 RPG fashion.
  
  Tap & Slap
  Your characters also have a number of POW moves, which use up PP points (a bit like magic points 
 in other RPGs) . Each character's POW attacks are dependent on their fighting style: Knuckles has 
 a special attack which punches through armour, whereas Tails has one called Tinker which lets him 
 weaken robots. There are also combination moves in which two characters team up, such as one where 
 Tails flies over an enemy carrying Sonic and drops him on them.
  These special moves are performed using an Elite Beat Agents-style mini game where you have to 
 tap circles and drag lines at the right time. This technique is also used to avoid special enemy 
 attacks. It's a basic addition but one which adds a bit of interactivity to a fighting system that's 
 often dull in other games.
  
  
  
  Had Sonic Chronicles simply been a standard RPG with generic characters in it, it would still have 
 been a fantastic title. The fact that it actually features familiar faces and backgrounds only 
 adds to the enjoyment. It may be an RPG instead of a platformer, but it feels like it fits perfectly 
 into the original series and is one of the best games that the spiky lad has ever featured in. 
 Welcome back, old Sonic. We've really missed you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Jakeiiii
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 21, 2009 12:52 pm PT
Review:  Sonic Chronicles is an RPG that was surprisingly good despite all the reviews. It turned out well 
 for the blue hedgehog, and is a sign that he's running up back to the top of the ladder.
  
  Story = 9.5
  The story is really well done, probably because of Bioware's help, or Sega have 
 found their interesting side again. I was able to enjoy this story at the age of 15, meaning that 
 it wont be only enjoyed by little kids. Some conversations will allow you to choose a responce 
 to question or statement, some are funny, some are serious. It was really well thought out and 
 went well with the game, didn't stretch on pointlessly.
  
  Gameplay = 8.4
  (OVERWORLD)
  It is fun running around as Sonic or flying as Tails, or even climbing as Knuckles, so why did 
 the game do that for us? I'm not sure why but using the stylus you would run around the screen 
 but when it comes to a loop or a bottomless pit you touch a button as a certain character and they 
 will perfom the action for you. Overall it responds well but I would like a go too.
  (BATTLE)
  Now, for this, the controls work fine and the POW moves (touch sequences) are enjoyable 
 as well as hard. Too bad that regular attacks actualy hit only 1 every 20 times. You try to kill 
 an enemy with 2hp left with a regular attacks and it misses most of time which is very frustrating!!!
 
  
  Presentation = 10
  The overworld is really well made with many hidden secrets and the battling areas look very nice 
 as well as the character/enemy models. This game is very beautiful.
  
  Lasting appeal = 9
  Usualy an RPG would last a few more hours but considering it's Sonic and 
 it's aimed at kids aswell then it shouldn't be too long. The experience of the game is worth it 
 and with all the fun you have, you'll want to play it again.
  
  (the rest of this review does not count towards the final score)
  
  Graphics = 10
  The best 
 I've seen on DS, the overworld is very nicely drawn out and the character models are very well 
 detailed. Brilliant.
  
  Music = 8.5
  The music in this game very good but it's hard to hear from the badly recorded sound effects (Sonic' 
 whirlwind attack) . This sounds loud and scrappy, however the background music is fine.
  
  Overall = 9
  This works out really well for the hedgehog that has been down lately and works 
 well as his first RPG, wether he was copying Mario or not. Overall this game is a must have for 
 the DS collection, very fun game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sonicrocks96
Rating: 2.5
Date: Jan 17, 2009 5:24 pm PT
Review:  Sonic Chronicles: The Dark Brotherhood is almost just garbage. Sonic has made his way to role-playing, 
 but it just doesn't fit in with Sonic Rush, launched back in 2005. 
  
  The Good: Fun to explore (Yeah, that's it)
  
  The Bad: No sence of speed, no action, not as 
 good as Sonic Rush, so boring that will leave that game card coverd with dust.
  
  Yeah. So Sonic Chronicles: The Dark Brotherhood is the worst DS game you can ever have. 
  
 
  My score: 2.5: Terrible
  
  IGSFJHU JIHUF IHU SJIGDHNF SGDFO SGDF SJVSD SFOUJ SDOIU ODHGT GDHFNJO FG GF IKN OXFKJ DKFJHBN IGDSKFJBN 
 FDSJUIBKN GSDKFJBN SFJIUH SFJHUBN FDJKOLHN SFJKNL FGUOK OGDSIHUN GFIUO SFOIGHKN FSIO SFOIKL FISOJGK 
 DSOIJHNK CHON SIPO DOFIKN DSF DSV GJHNIK GOF GDSF GDVNF IHU HUI IHU IHU IHU IHU IHU IUH IUH IHU 
 IUH HUI HUI IUH IHU IHU HIU HIU HIU HIU HIU IUH IU HI 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Naomz
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 4, 2009 9:47 pm PT
Review:  I definetly had my doubts when it came to putting Sonic and all his buddies into a turn-based RPG. 
 And that Bioware was doing it. As skeptical as i was, giving this game a try was a great idea!
 
  As most Sonic fans im sure have, I have been worried where this series was going. I haven't enjoyed 
 a sonic game since the Sonic Mega Collection came out. I have been paitently waiting for something 
 great. And Sonic Chronicles is that great game.
  This game is really easy to pick up and play. There isnt alot of dumb text to read and you can 
 save where and when ever you want! which to me, is a plus in an RPG. The characters are all ones 
 we know, and hopefully love.
  I really enjoyed the battle system. The POW moves are your specials. And they require you to do 
 series of things with the stylus. And alot of times you can dodge an enemy attack by doing there 
 special with the commands on the screen with the stylus. Its super fun and keeps you in the battle 
 constantly paying attention.
  Also you collect Chaos that you can equip for extra effects in battle. thats pretty sweet, and 
 they are cute! Haha.
  Also the amount of characters you have to choose from is pretty big. I had trouble picking characters. 
 I wanted to use almost everyone! Except Rouge, they coulda made her a bit better. 
  The one and only problem I have with it is the story. Its pretty lame. Its like, bad guy has Chaos 
 Emeralds and is gonna destroy things. its just your typical Sonic story.
  With that said, if your looking for a good Sonic game or just a fun turn-based RPG this is the 
 game you need. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: alpunk96
Rating: 5.5
Date: Jan 4, 2009 7:45 pm PT
Review:  I'm sure most of us can agree that Sonic is finally getting back on his feet. No more hookers, no 
 more drugs, AND he's actually getting some good games! I know, crazy huh? So Sega thought, out of no 
 were, it would be a good idea to let Bioware, a company that doesn't know the first thing about Sonic, to 
 make a RPG about him. Well no one really cared. I mean Sonic had been doing good as of late and 
 Mass Effect was pretty fun, so there was no way Bioware could screw this up! Right? Wrong! This 
 game is like a never ending kick to the balls! I would rather drink salt water than play this boring 
 game! Okay, let me explain.
  
  
  The game starts off pretty good, I mean the intro pretty rocking. However, I hope you take a nice 
 long listen to the intro song, because that's the only half-way enjoyable song in the entire game! 
 I mean what were the music producers doing while working on this game? Getting High? Getting Drunk? 
 Screwing? I'm guessing all of the above! Anyways, as I was saying..... after watching that intro 
 I was thinking "awesome, looks like another step in the direction!"..... Yeah I was a idoit. You 
 begin as Sonic, were our first problem begins, the controls. You have to touch the direction on the 
 touch screen you want to go! Now this may have worked for Zelda, but this isn't Zelda! It's Sonic! 
 Not to mention it worked alot better in Zelda. You also have to press a certain button to spin 
 dash.... That's Retarded! Why didn't they just give you the option to use the A and B buttons, along 
 with the D-Pad. It makes no sense!
  
  
  Getting past the controls and music, we make to Green Hill Zone... which looks and sounds like crap. 
 It looks nothing like Green Hill Zone! Oh and that's another thing wrong with this game, it tries 
 to tug at your Nostalgia strings, but ends up failing at it! It brings Big from SA1 and Heroes in, too 
 bad no one likes him! It tries to tie up Knuckles past, too bad it ends up screwing up his story 
 from SA1 in the process. it tries to recreate Green Hill Zone, but fails! Not to mention the game 
 says "Screw you!" to Sonic logic! Cream's a playable character and did I mention Robotnik fights 
 without weapons.... I know pretty stupid, huh?
  
  
  Moving onto Graphics, they blow. The Rush games looked much better than this! Not to mention the 
 cutscences look like something you'd find on Deviantart! Now onto the main meat of the game, battle 
 system and I'll be fair the battles are some what fun. I mean sure they seem really random at times, 
 and they don't give you enough points for pulling off special moves, and sure they give you way 
 too many health revivals, and sure pulling off the special moves is lame.... but it's still a little 
 bit of fun.
  
  
  In closing Sonic Chronicles sucked. It was a huge let down. Don't buy it, don't even touch it. Get 
 Sonic Unleashed instead, that somewhat helped to mend the damage Chronicles did to me!
  
  5.5/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nekusonic
Rating: 8
Date: Dec 30, 2008 12:32 am PT
Review:  Sonic Chronicles: The Dark Brotherhood is one of the best sonic games to come out since the sonic 
 adventure series. It has a whole lot of exploration, pretty graphics, and a fast paced combat system 
 that has a surprising amount of strategy. The story is very light, but it stays true to the nature 
 of the sonic characters. It can also be really deep if you choose the correct answers. tip: if 
 you are nice to Amy for the whole entire game, and i mean the WHOLE ENTIRE GAME, DON'T DO ANYTHING 
 MEAN, something cool may happen.
  
  The game is really short and has moderately low replay value. After your second play through, you'll 
 find yourself bored with the game. The battles can also go on for a really long time. Sometimes, 
 fighting enemies can be a really tedious thing to do. Battles can also get very frustrating if 
 you do mess up during the touch screen sequences, so you have to be on your toes at all times.
 
  
  Sonic Chronicles is a game that is flawed, but worthy. You either love this game or hate it. Although 
 if i were you, i would wait for the sequel. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: notSFF
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 28, 2008 2:47 pm PT
Review:  Ah, Sonic. You've quickly become one of the most "love or hate" gaming franchises out there. Thankfully, 
 there's still hope for the franchise, and Sonic Chronicles: The Dark Brotherhood, is undeniable 
 proof.
  
  Bioware truly came through on this one. Let's start off with the story and characters. The story 
 is one of the best one's I've seen in a Sonic game, as it deals with the past of Knuckles, Angel 
 Island, the Gizoids and more. The new character, Shade, is extremly well done, much like Blaze 
 of Rush was. As for the original characters, Bioware has improved on them IMMENSLY. No longer is 
 Big a gigantic drool monkey, but merely a slightly dim comic relief character. No longer is Knuckles 
 treating his responsibilty as Guardian like a joke. No longer is Amy's crush on Sonic at "psycho 
 stalker" levels. I think you get the idea. Bottom line, Bioware took what was wrong with each character, 
 and improved it. If you can make Big less stupid, you are worthy of praise, and Bioware did just 
 that.
  
  As for the battle system, it's pretty good. It's standard turn-based, only using solely the stylus. 
 You can use special skills called POW moves to help in battle, and trust me, you'll NEED POW moves 
 for some of the boss fights.
  
  It's hard to find something to complain about in this game, but if I had to say anything, it'd 
 be the music. It just isn't up to par with the music most Sonic games have used, but it's not really 
 a bother, mostly since the battle music makes up for the bland field music.
  
  Ultimately, Chronicles is yet another fine RPG from Bioware. This was there first foray into JRPG 
 territory, and they did great. If you're a Sonic fan, an RPG fan, or both, you owe it to yourself 
 to get Sonic Chronicles. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Cynder2
Rating: 7
Date: Dec 23, 2008 8:24 am PT
Review:  So I am a big fan of the sonic series, and this new game for the D. S. set me back only 35 bucks. 
 It was really fun at first, such as the party system, the tricks you can do, and the leveling. 
 But what was really bad was the fights. The Enemy groups were represented as a single character, 
 and you could run around and try to avoid them. It was similar to the battle system of Spectrobes. 
 That wasn't so bad, but it was the length of the battles that made it sooo hard to play. And every 
 ten steps there was a battle that took two minutes or longer. I think (and hope) that they will 
 fix that in a sequel if Sega lets them. I'm not sure how much control Sega has over Sonic Team, 
 but I think maybe they were pushing them to do an RPG. I would Really recomend this game for rent, 
 and if you play 45 minutes a day you could probablly beat it before its due. The difficulty is 
 nice, because it's not too hard or easy. You have to beat it twice to get the full ending, and 
 beating it the second time can get kind of boring. You level up nice, though, because you are allowed 
 to pick what you want to focus on, like say making tails super weak but an unstopable defence. 
 I give this game a 7 out of ten, or a B+. Go rent it at the least but I say buy it. Oh, and there 
 is a chao garden, but it's kinda stupid because you cant interact, train, or even name your chao. 
 It adds nothing to the game. If you agree, I'll add you and you can add me. Cynder2 
::::::

::::::
UserName: EmrlGizoid
Rating: 8.5
Date: Dec 19, 2008 10:52 am PT
Review:  It's an amazing game, great story, Sonic and Amy have theirs relationship a little hotter and the 
 battles are enteresting, having Chao, equiping better items and using POW moves, BUT, when you 
 defeat the last boss..... turn off the game.........
  You gotta play the game some three times to get everithing, what makes the replay be bad because 
 no one in the world can play a rpg more than one time... and the sound sucks. Still, the game is 
 cool! The gameplay it's ok but you won't really enjoy battling..... like every rpg though.
  One thing that's pretty cool it's that you can choose what Sonic says so you can be nice, ignorant, 
 agree, disagree, you can show off yourself or even be rude, making some funny scenes, especially 
 with Amy Rose, making her angry it's fun!!!!
  I reccomend buying this game (even if I didn't....... emulators some time are good) . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BearingJDVD
Rating: 8.5
Date: Dec 16, 2008 6:55 pm PT
Review:  I have to admit i was skeptical at first when i heard of sonic chronicles. I wasnt actually sure 
 if the idea of a sonic rpg would work. Leave it to Bioware to prove me wrong. Sonic chronicles 
 is a very addictive on fun rpg. Bioware (being well.... bioware) created a very interesting story. 
 Knuckles is kidnapped and sonic is called to find him. Now of course this isnt the whole story 
 (and it becomes quite a interesting tale) but saying more might possibly spoil things. Also bioware 
 included there signature choose what you say mechanics. Its a nice addition but it doesnt affect 
 the story ( though it does create a few extra cutscenes)
  
  On to the combat system. Sonic chronicles is like most traditional rpgs except with a added twist. 
 Whenever u do a specail move u have to time stylus taps in order to execute a move correctly. this 
 may sound like a mere addition but it is highly addictive. The only downside is fights can be quite 
 long.
  
  Another great thing about this game is u can custumize all u want or do nothing to your caharacters 
 at all. every time u level u are awarded points for ur atributes and u can choose for the computer 
 to automatically set them or u can do it manually and creat a whole different type of character 
 for example the computer puts sonic stats into speed and power but u might to make him really strong 
 so u can give him all power (u can not do this with ur skills though)
  
  All in all sonic chronicles is a great first rpg for sonic. If ur a sonic fan this is a must buy. 
 Heck if ur rpg fan check this out. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Manioc
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 13, 2008 9:40 am PT
Review:  For most of you who are too lazy to read my review my score is 9.7 for the game.
  My review;
  
  Upsides;
  First off, the game has an AWESOME script, I found myself thanking 
 Bioware over and over and over. For example near the beginning Sonic said, "Ah Green Hill zone, 
 good times." And tails replies, "By good times you mean Eggman turning all our animal friends into 
 robots?" "Yep, Good times." was Sonic's reply, now tell me honestly, would you see Sonic Team write 
 that, 99.999% say no, you wouldn't. The gameplay is really good, for an RPG with Sonic, it is credited 
 less than it should be. Also, the skills and choice of what you want to level up each time is really 
 nice. There are 10 chapters in the game, and some longer than others. Sadly, the game is NOT very 
 challenging until the very end... (UNLESS YOU HAVE CREAM DARNIT...) The first 3 pre-bosses are 
 hard, and it is important to remember to use your skills and items often. Chao are really a good 
 concept for that game, having another hand held style chao garden is what I was far from looking 
 forward to. Chao help you in your battles with upgrade such as, 'HP slightly regains for each party 
 member each turn.' There are 40 chao in all, and it is unlikely you'll get them all before you 
 win it the first time. After winning it the first time, you get to play it over again with all 
 your level ups kept. Speaking of skills, a tip I must give is you really should be careful not 
 to just get each skill but to level the good ones up to the max. The game was fascinating introducing 
 another character, this time, affecting Knuckles. What I thought was fun about this idea was that 
 first you gotta fight against her, but then she joins you. As does Eggman join you. Eggman has 
 an MAJOR ego just so you know... The music in this game wasn't bad at all, the sound effects were 
 good, but they were a tad loud, for example, I'd have my DS on half volume, and you could hear 
 the sound of getting rings VERY clearly. The graphics in this game were... well, they varied, the 
 battle graphics personal looked rather chibi, and a bit to cute, not detailed enough. However, 
 running around the maps seemed okay. And the cut-scenes where comic style, very nice. The story 
 line of the game is awesome, because it's fresh, and doesn't have too much of a questionable ending. 
 The credits were also fresh like the rest of the game, the credits were in speech bubble form, 
 because tails was telling Sonic about who made 'them' in the game. (I read it all and I recognized 
 a few people... I = nerd.) I also liked that you could save anywhere you wanted to. (I will ALWAYS 
 love that.)
  
  Downside;
  A downside however, was the fact that the game felt rather short in the long run, and lacked some 
 explaining here and there. I'd say it took me less than 24 hours to win, but I didn't win it in 
 a week. I spread it out to see if it was memorable by loading it and seeing where you are. Another 
 down side was that you often ran into unnecessary battles where you would get damaged before bosses 
 and have to use items to heal yourself so you wouldn't die. Sometimes the case was you could get 
 away from the unneeded battles by fleeing instead of getting damaged, but there was always the 
 case of failing to do so, or just getting tired of it. (I did this several times to avoid battles 
 and most likely over 30 times...) Another downside is that whilst inside battle, it was annoying 
 that an enemy would do a PP (or Pow/special) move, right before you did, and killed you, and even 
 if you didn't die, you'd have to follow the pattern of your own skill after they're skill... ( 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MarioLinkGenofa
Rating: 4
Date: Dec 10, 2008 2:42 pm PT
Review:  In all truth RPgs were my favorite Genre! So when i heard Sonic Rpg I thought "hey mario does well 
 might as well give sonic a chance" But no! 
  
  Graphics- They are terriblethe colors poorly mixed together! And the Space levels give me a headache 
 4/10
  
  Gameplay- Leveling up! Yeah that takes forever! And the fights take forever... and it is just terrible 
 you will waste all you power points because the fights are so terribly long!!! 4/10 
  
  Music- please kill me 1/10
  
  Plot- Meh... decent thats all that can be said 7/10
  
  Overall... 
 Sonic stay away from this genre, and racing, and everything else except platforming! Keep all your 
 skill on that!!! All ofit seriously even your platforming is horrific now! just make a good game 
 or kill sonic off  
::::::

::::::
UserName: kirbybunny
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 8, 2008 8:07 am PT
Review:  Before long I thought sonic would make a good RPG type game, now before I know it, its right here 
 as one now. The story goes around and gets to you as you learn of a new enemy and a new way to 
 fight that sonic and friends were begging to try out on some bad guys. the battle are flowing and 
 doing your special moves requiring mastering the stylus for those who do not like to. Picking the 
 right hero for the job at hand is very curious since you want certain people in the party and some 
 people you need with you. Picking the right equipment and discovering who's behind all these things 
 is one thing that will never change about all the games people play which makes the game more irresistible 
 to refuse. If you want a sonic where speed isn't the only thing that will save you go for this 
 game and choose your sonic heroes. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: prkprkprk
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 26, 2008 2:02 pm PT
Review:  Don't trust gamespot. This game was great. One of the must-owns for the DS!
  
  THE GOOD:
  -A Great challenge
  -No bad voice acting
  -Fun to say things, some things you say can be very 
 funny
  -Good, easy controls
  -Graphics aren't that bad
  
  THE BAD:
  -A bit TOO challenging at some points
  -Price is $5 higer than a normal DS game, which is really 
 sad
  
  Overall, buy this game. It's funny, great, and... well... GREAT!
  How about buying this game? I suggest you do.
  BE PREPARED FOR SONIC UNLEASHED!
  NOVEMBER & 
 DECEMBER!!!
  IT WILL BE THE BEST GAME EVER!
  I WILL BE GETTING THE REVIEW FOR YOU!
  
  OTHER UPCOMING REVIEWS:
  -Sonic Unleashed
  -The Sims 2 DS
  -TrackMania Nations Forever
 
  - (Possibly) Super Mario Bros. NES
  
  -prkprkprk, Qwiz Comics Game Reviewer
  Click thumbs up if you agree with this review! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: redthundereign
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 19, 2008 6:09 pm PT
Review:  First off, I'm going to talk about the games Graphics! Since it's for the handheld, the game has some 
 good graphics. There not the best, but its goes nicely with the game! They use great power moves for 
 each party member outside of battle. For example, you can use Tails to fly onto higher ledges, or 
 teleport with Shadow! Next thing that I wanted to talk about was the games story line! This game 
 has a story line where when one thing happens they make you wonder what will happen next and never 
 show it! It can make players very frusterated! For example, they talk about amy's new boy freind Dexter 
 once or twice in the whole game, wow! How about the end when out of no where Robotnik turns on you! 
 They do not tell you what happened next, they go straight into another random topic! Finally, the 
 music! This game has such good music! For everything from battles to themes to story lines! Yup! I 
 can't wait for the second to be released! So, play it.. now.. GO, WHAT ARE YOU WAITING FOR, GO PLAY IT 
 NOW! See-Ya! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: vivvav
Rating: 7.5
Date: Nov 9, 2008 12:34 pm PT
Review:  Story: (Major Spoilers)
  I honestly think this is one of the weaker stories of the recent Sonic games, just because everything 
 is rushed and while you can put it together, it's just not good enough, which I'll elaborate on 
 in a bit.
  So yeah, the story starts with Sonic, Knuckles, Amy, and Tails fighting Eggman. They take him down 
 and he is presumed dead. A couple years later, we're with Sonic, who Tails has just contacted. 
 Apparently, the blue blur has been gone for a while now, and when Tails contacts him it's the first 
 time any of his friends have communicated with him since the last battle with Eggman. Tails informs 
 Sonic that Knuckles and the Chaos Emeralds have been taken by a group called the marauders, and 
 Sonic is called into action once more to help. After meeting Amy in Green Hill Zone and fighting 
 some animals and old Eggman robots, Sonic meets up with Tails and Rouge and the gang sets off on 
 a new adventure.
  I'm not gonna get too into the story, because honestly, it wasn't done too well. As I mentioned 
 before, lots of scenarios are rushed, and it seems the developers just went, "It's a handheld game, 
 they're not gonna care about the story." Because of this, some things are just hard to buy, and 
 there's a lot of plot holes and continuity errors, especially with the inclusion of Gizoids, which 
 haven't been mentioned since Emerl in Sonic Battle.
  The good story elements are actually in the character development themselves. With Sonic's disappearance, 
 lots of characters have changed in different ways. Tails has grown up a lot, and has made something 
 of himself as the smartest person around. The story shows that Knuckles actually ISN'T the last 
 echidna, and we get to see a more contemplative and profound side of his personality, as opposed 
 to the usual hardass hotheaded guardian we're used to. Rouge isn't quite as selfish anymore, and 
 there are very few times in the game where those sides of her personality are even seen, showing 
 her truly good sides. Amy's not as obsessive over Sonic, making her more bearable, Eggman's not 
 as obnoxious, and even Shadow is nicer, as shown when we meet him where he's looking for E-123 
 Omega and not just sulking, even describing Omega as a good friend.
  Some characters don't need to be there though. This includes the secret characters, like Cream 
 and Omega of course, but I mean some of the story-characters too. Big the Cat, for example, has 
 no use after his introduction. You need him in the overworld map (which I'll explain later) , and 
 then the fat **** is just one more space on your character select screen. It seems they quite literally 
 included an overworld obstacle JUST so they could put him in, which makes no sense because nobody 
 likes him. Vector the Crocodile, a cool character who's actually useful and some people like, makes 
 a one second cameo, but Big the Cat, the one Sonic character everybody can agree to hate whether 
 they like the franchise or not, was put in. What the hell?
  
  Character Customization:
  The game is an RPG, so of course now you have to concern yourself with stats, equipment, etc. The 
 equipment system is the game's biggest flaw, because in the tradition of Sonic games, you find 
 rings lying around instead of gaining them from winning battles. This means you have a limited 
 amount of rings you can find in the whole game, so you can never buy enough stuff. I suppose to 
 counter this, they give you an item at the end of every battle, which you can then use to sell 
 to shops for more rings.
  Stats raise when you level up, and you also get a skill point when you level up that you can use 
 to raise a character's Strength, Speed, Defense, Health, or Luck (accuracy and evasion, from what 
 I can gather) . Also, every level up gives you 5 special points which you can use to buy and upgrade 
 POW Moves (special moves) for your character, which I'll explain later. The armor and accessories 
 mostly suck and aren't worth much, and I can guarantee you that the thing you'll spend the most 
 time on as far as equipment goes is your Chao. Chao are basically living accessories. You find 
 their eggs on the overworld map, and each have special powers and a rarity level. Some are really 
 cool, and some are really useless. But I guarantee you'll get a lot of common ones that nobody 
 wants to trade for (you can trade Chao like Pokmon. There are 60 types. Gotta catch 'em all!) , 
 so get used to seeing the name "Griff" a lot.
  You can also choose who's on your team every time you exit a safehouse. The thing is, you always 
 have to have Sonic on your team, so your selectable group of 4 is really Sonic and three other 
 people. And the characters aren't that balanced either, so you'll probably be like me and wishing 
 Sonic wasn't on your team so you could just use Knuckles, Shade, Omega, and Shadow, instead of 
 having to rotate one of them to play as them all. But it doesn't matter if one's kept in your team 
 or not as far as EXP goes. If a character is out of your team for half the game, the next time 
 you put them in your team they automatically level up to catch up with the people you HAVE been 
 using, so it doesn't matter if you haven't touched Amy since the start of the game, she'll be brought 
 up to level 30 if your other characters are there.
  
  Overworld:
  Being an RPG, the game has quests and sidequests. The difficulty of them is cheapened because the 
 map on your top screen will always show you where to go, eliminating the need to explore for yourself. 
 It's nice sometimes when you get really lost, but most of the time it just feels like an insult 
 to your intelligence. It can also make things confusing, because it shows all of your objective 
 points at once, so you don't know what's a sidequest and what will progress the story. E-123 Omega 
 is a secret character. I didn't find this out until after I beat the game because the way he's 
 mentioned in the story and unlocked seemed like it was a mandatory part of the plot. The only other 
 secret character, Cream, was one you could tell it wasn't necessary to unlock, but you do it anyway 
 because somehow Cream is one of the few Sonic characters who you always know isn't going to suck, 
 and this game doesn't disappoint. The sidequests aren't usually worth it though, because you get 
 very little EXP for them and **** items as rewards instead of good armor or accessories.
  The annoying thing about the overworld map is that there are certain obstacles that only certain 
 characters can overcome, such as Sonic, Shadow, and Amy being able to run through loops (despite 
 the fact that all the characters have done this) , Tails, Knuckles, Rouge and Cream flying, etc. 
 Most of the time it isn't problematic, but sometimes you have to keep your party in mind for whatever 
 problems you'll encounter to your goal. Remember how I said they seemed to invent one obstacle 
 JUST so they could throw in Big the Cat? It's poison gas. Apparently, Big thinks the gas is just 
 fog, and he JUST SO HAPPENS to be allergic to it, causing him to go into mass fits of sneezing 
 which stops him from breathing in the gas. Big is now given this invincibility ability in the overworld, 
 and the only other time you encounter it in the whole game is to pass through lightning (that is 
 somehow underwater) , and you only need to pass through that lightning for a sidequest. The only 
 other character in the game who can do this is Omega, but by the time you unlock him, you won't 
 need the ability anyway.
  
  Combat:
  Of course, the main seller of an RPG is its combat system, and this game's isn't that bad. It's 
 easy, but not bad. Depending on their speed stat, a character (including an enemy) can attack multiple 
 times in one turn, so you predetermine when you want to use a POW move, item, or normal attack, 
 and in what order. The problem is, if you want to use a normal attack first and then a POW move 
 in one turn, you can't with the same character. The game is designed so if you choose normal attack 
 first on one enemy, you'll just be using the normal attack for all their moves in that turn. If 
 that enemy dies, they'll just randomly attack another foe, instead of the next one in line.
  The POW moves are pretty cool. When you use a POW move, a series of buttons or lines or whatever 
 come up, and you have to use your touch stylus (btw, the whole game's played with the stylus, even 
 in the overworld. No buttons AT ALL, even in dialogue boxes) to execute the attack, like in Elite 
 Beat Agents. Executing the attack correctly will cause extra damage or an enhanced effect, while 
 failing can cause nullified damage or even complete failure. This also happens when defending against 
 an enemy's special attack, which is nice because if you're quick enough, you can dodge one-hit 
 kill moves. You also have to consider POW moves when choosing team mates, because some characters 
 have POW attacks they can only do if certain characters in the team. POW moves use PP instead of 
 MP, and when doing one of these team attacks, it takes away PP from all involved characters.
  
  Playable Characters (In Order of Being Unlocked) :
  I've kinda talked about the characters, 
 but as I said before, they're not really balanced, so I'm gonna give you some info on all of them 
 to get them across better.
  -Sonic: Sonic is a fairly-balanced character, except for his Luck stat. Since he's one of the fastest, 
 he has the most moves per turn, and he has higher attack and health than most of the other characters, 
 since he's in your team all the time. The problem with Sonic is his POW moves. They use a relatively 
 low amount of PP and are easy to execute, but they generally suck. Most of them also require other 
 characters to be on the team, most of which you usually won't want to use.
  -Amy: Amy isn't a bad character, but she's not a good one. She's got good attack, but her health, 
 defense, and POW moves leave a lot to be desired. She's not slow either, but you'd think she would 
 be faster. She's also relatively useless on the field, because while she runs through loops, Sonic's 
 always on your team anyway, which makes that useless. She can bash boxes too, but this obstacle 
 doesn't appear much later in the game, and Knuckles and Omega can do it anyway.
  -Tails: As far as the story goes, this is the first time I've really liked Tails. In combat, not 
 so much. Tails has decent defense and luck, but that's about it. All of his POW attacks are status-changers, 
 which you're not usually going to use because it's a waste of a move, and the only POW moves of 
 his that are attacks are from other characters who are compatible with Tails, and even then they're 
 not that good. His redeeming quality is that his overworld flight is the quickest to raise of all 
 the flying characters, but by the time you need a level 3 flyer the others will have learned it 
 anyway.
  -Rouge: Rouge isn't anywhere near as she should be, which is sad because past games have shown 
 her kicking serious ass. Physically, Rouge is probably the strongest of the flying characters, 
 but that doesn't say much because they're all relatively weak. Still, her attack is pretty decent, 
 as are the rest of her stats, and while her POW moves aren't good, they're still useful. Her overworld 
 flying is pretty decent too.
  -Big: Big is useless. He's got good attack, defense, and health, but he's so slow he only gets 
 one move per turn and he's got horrible accuracy. His special moves also blow, and as I've mentioned 
 before, he's mandatory at one point in the game and then again in a sidequest as far as the overworld 
 goes, because all he has in temporary invincibility. The only good thing about Big the whole game 
 is one scene where the creators basically decide to make fun of his idiocy and the characters all 
 just stare at him, which is actually pretty funny. Overall though, he's the second-worst character 
 in the game.
  -Knuckles: Knuckles is one of the best characters in the game. He's got high attack, speed, and 
 great POW moves, as well as decent defense, luck, and health. His POW moves are compatible with 
 a lot of characters, so you will pretty much always have a combination with him, and he can Bash, 
 Fly, and Climb in the overworld, which are all at low level, but good when you need them. Overall, 
 he's a very good character.
  -Cream: Cream is the first secret character in the game and you can unlock her in a sidequest in 
 Green Hill Zone by finding Cheese (her chao) after getting Knuckles. Cream is your white mage: 
 She heals your party and can mess with your enemies. Her POW moves are trickier to pull off than 
 most of the characters, but it's well worth it. Of course, her attack is low, and the rest of her 
 stats are decent, but she's one of the better overworld flyers. Overall, Cream is probably one 
 of the more useful characters in the game, and almost as good as Rouge as far as the flyers go. 
 Unlocking her is also the only way to get Cheese as an equipable Chao, so if you want to collect 
 all 60, you have to unlock her, because Cheese is one-of-a-kind.
  -Eggman: That's right, Eggman is playable in this game. He's actually the worst playable character, 
 but you can forgive that because he's only available for a little while. He only has two POW attacks, 
 one of which you absolutely need at one point in the game, high health, decent attack, but everything 
 else is horrible. But you do need him at one short period. Unlike Big, who was forced into the 
 story so he could be playable, Eggman has to be playable because the story calls for it.
  -Shadow: Of course, since he's the ultimate life form, Shadow is one of the best characters in 
 the game. He's just as fast as Sonic, has some of the highest attack, luck, and some of the best 
 POW moves. Of course, his POW moves take up a lot of PP, but enemies drop items so much that won't 
 matter. He's also compatible with quite a few characters, one of the only two characters who can 
 use teleport in the overworld, and while he was definitely forced into the story to be playable, 
 nobody's complaining because he's awesome.
  -E-123 Omega: Omega is the second secret character in the game, but unlike Cream, who you could 
 play the game through without knowing was in it at all, you're probably going to unlock him anyway. 
 And that's fine, because he's also one of the best characters in the game. Omega's got some of 
 the highest attack, defense, and health in the game. His normal attack is a missile that damages 
 both the target and the two enemies next to it thanks to the explosion, and he has some of the 
 strongest POW moves ever. Of course, he also has low accuracy, can only make one move per turn, 
 and his POW moves cost a lot of PP, because he is a walking armory. He's also relatively useless 
 on the overworld, with a bash ability not as good as Amy's and invincibility not as good as Big's 
 (somehow) . Still, Omega is one of the best characters in the game, and like Cream, definitely worth 
 unlocking.
  -Shade: Shade, the new character and villain for the first half of the game, becomes a playable 
 character in the second half. She's also one of the best characters, with some of the highest stats. 
 Her Speed matches Sonic and Shadow's, her attack matches Knuckles and Omega, and she has amazing 
 health, defensem and luck. She also has good POW moves with low PP and is compatible with quite 
 a few characters. She's not too useful in the overworld, with low level climbing and teleportation, 
 but by the time you unlock her, that won't matter anymore. Shade could very easily be the best 
 character in the game. Too bad she has the personality of a 2x4.
  
  Final Notes:
  This game is definitely a kid's game, unlike some of the more recent games with tones of murder 
 and bestiality. This is most evident in how incredibly easy the game is, and how horrible some 
 of the writing is, including the incredibly cartoony appearance of some human NPCs. Perhaps some 
 of the biggest rip-offs is dying: The only time dying has been less effective is Lego Indiana Jones. 
 In this game, if you fall in battle, you can pay some rings to restart the battle with full health 
 and PP. This is good, because it's usually all I needed. But they also make the battle easier if 
 you have to do this, which is just an insult to me as a gamer.
  If I had to pick a term to describe this game, it'd be "Half Baked". The game had a lot of promise 
 and great concepts, but it just falls short. It's too easy at some points, too annoying at others, 
 the sidequests are worthless and the only reason you do them is to prolong the experience. The 
 overworld abilities idea is like Communism: Good on paper, bad in practice. The final boss is also 
 a joke, especially when you go Super Sonic because you quite literally win in one turn without 
 even trying. I could honestly wipe my ass in twice the amount of time it takes to fight the final 
 boss, and I don't think it's possible to lose it. The story is rushed, and while it's not like 
 it doesn't make sense, it just isn't satisfying. I realize that a lot of people think holding standards 
 for the story in a Sonic game is a stupid notion, but this was really just pathetic.
  The thing is, the game isn't bad. It's good, and I did like it. I just think they didn't finish 
 it, and wanted to rush the release so they could have their annual handheld Sonic game. If they 
 had given it another few months of development, this could've been a truly amazing game. But still, 
 despite its shortcomings, I can't wait for the sequel. Sonic Chronicles is a game you can rent 
 or buy, and I guess it's just whether you'll want to replay it or not that determines which one 
 you do. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ThessaTheCat
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 8, 2008 7:39 pm PT
Review:  The semi-new game Sonic Chronicles: the Dark brotherhood, it's fine game, but did it live up to 
 the Hipe? Read on to find out.
  
  
  
  
  Well, overall think Sonic Chronicles is a great game. It's got Semi-good graphics for a handheld 
 game, it has a pretty good plot to it. Though, I saw a few things that weren't so "way past cool". 
 
  
  For example, all the music (besides the fight sequence music) is sub-par. Some of the songs are remixes 
 of classic Sonic songs, though, they are horrible and sound almost 8-bit. Also, after hearing the 
 music loop over and over is very annoying.
  
  The fight sequences are a semi-new look on RPG style battles, but after a while the tediousness 
 of sliding the stylus onto a bunch of dots appearing one after another, I got sick of the fights. 
 When you start the game, and you use your first "POW" move, it seems kind of neat to have to actually 
 DO something besides enter a command and your character responds and lays a beating on the enemy. 
 At FIRST this is fun, but later on when you begin to obtain more advanced "POW" moves, it becomes 
 VERY tedious sliding the stylus around pointlessly.
  
  Also, another thing I hate about the game (slight spoilers for those of you who have not beat the 
 game yet) is when, after you beat the game, it starts you over from the beginning. The only fun 
 thing about this is the fact that you have your level raised to the level it was when you beat 
 the game. Also, you have to buy your "POW" moves again, which is a pain.
  
  (one more flaw) after you collect all of the rings in Zones you have no way purchasing ANYTHING 
 from the shop (s) unless the enemies you fight flea VERY OFTEN and you have uber ring-gathering 
 skills.
  
  Okay, now for some good things (thank God)
  
  
  
  One of the good points of SCTDB, is the graphics -mainly the backgrounds- they are pretty good 
 for a DS game. The Backgrounds also add a "classic" Sonic game feel to it.
  
  Also, the fight sequences have great music, it's uber EPIC. Also, the fights also -even though 
 you have to slide the stylus tediously- are fun to watch, the characters animations are superb (for 
 the most part) . 
  
  Also, when you flea a fight, you have to dodge items and etc., this is a nice feature, considering 
 all the people who run away from every fight, so as not to take damage (I could understand this 
 if you were low on health but come on!) 
  
  Well, I suppose this review is done, thank you for reading, over all, I give this game an 8.5 out 
 of ten. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: klidron02
Rating: 7
Date: Nov 3, 2008 7:05 pm PT
Review:  The Sonic series has been around since 1991, and since the release of Shadow's self-titled game 
 back in 2005, let's be honest, the series has really gone down the drain. This especially showed 
 when Sonic 06 came out and Sonic Team lost such a chunk of it's fanbase. I was almost one of them 
 to leave the fanbase, but Secret Rings and the Rush series were there to prevent that. Now, on 
 to Chronicles. To be honest, I was a little bit unsure whether or not I should buy this game. At 
 the price tag of $35, and being a recent Sonic game, I came very close to buying a different game, 
 Kirby Super Star Ultra to be exact. But I took a chance and bought this game. And quite frankly, 
 I was very impressed. There were a few things I was dissapointed at, though, such as the animation 
 when going to a different area. Sonic just looks very odd when he's running from one place to the 
 next. Another thing is the in-battle animation after you win the battle. I know that it is a Sonic 
 game, but the characters look a little bit too cartoonish. The final complaint I have at this game 
 is the music. I actually have my DS muted when playing this game, the music is just that horrible, 
 and that shocked me, considering that Sonic games have always had an amazing soundtrack, just look 
 at Sonic 06. The story is a bit confusing, and why they decided to make Knuckles smart all of a 
 sudden is beyond my understanding. But the gameplay is what matters the most to me, and it's plain 
 awesome. It's like Pokemon in a sense, only with more characters attacking at a time and with, 
 of course, Sonic characters. I myself have always been a fan of the Pokemon video games, so when 
 I saw how identical the gameplay was, I was overjoyed. Overall, I would reccomend this game to 
 any RPG fan or any Sonic fan. If you're not a fan or either, then don't bother with this game. 
 This game isn't the best of the best, but it's definetially not the worst. Trust me, that one goes 
 to Sonic R. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Heavenlysword77
Rating: 7
Date: Nov 2, 2008 8:20 am PT
Review:  I've never really liked sonic but this game re cought my attention. This game and Sonic Unleashed 
 and in 2009 Sonic and the Black knight may actually start bringing in more sonic fans. Sonic has 
 never had to many fans. Their games were not playable for more than 5 hours except ,maybe sonic 
 Rush that you wouldn't get bored after 10 minutes. Sonic Chronicles the dark brotherhood is a great 
 role playing game. I know I'm saying that it's an awesome game but then you see that I gave it 
 7. It's because I'm not much of a fan of DS so 7 is really like a 9 on like ps3. In one nword like 
 10 times it was AWESOME AWESOME AWESOME AWESOME AWESOME AWESOME AWESOME AWESOME AWESOME AWESOME 
  
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: antipunt1
Rating: 6
Date: Oct 22, 2008 6:13 pm PT
Review:  Who am I? I am a Sonic fan. I have been long awaiting the first 'great' sonic game in current times. 
 But more 'realistically', I have long lowered my expectations to receive a 'good' sonic game. Sonic 
 and the Secret Rings was a nice hit that was 'close' in that sector. My expectations are not unfairly 
 high, in fact they are cripplingly low. Anyone who is a fan of anything would know this, especially 
 if their 'special something' was subjected to butchery for many years via games with superficial 
 storyline, bad camera angles, poor music, and just stupid stupid decisions.
  
  And anyone who says there isn't anything to work with just doesn't know and appreciate sonic like 
 his true fans. The world of Sonic-SATAM or the comics provides TONS of material to create a dark 
 and impressive storyline. Hearing about Bioware's new project, I was excited and hoped that they 
 would use this goldmine of material. Instead, they choose Big the Cat, Cream and Cheese, and a 
 large breasted CIA bat.
  
  And the bad-ness does not just start with story choice. You have superficial NPCs who look like 
 'joe-smoe' that lived next door to you for 5 years. "Hey Sonic, can you chop a piece of wood for 
 me?!". Honestly, I think my intelligence quotient just dropped by 4 points.
  
  Not to mention HORRENDOUS music and unconvicing sound effects, poor stylis choices, and frustrating 
 battles with too many misses and regenerating enemies. 
  
  Now the good points: It looks nice, I like the dialogue box, and it does seem like a step in the 
 right direction. Despite multiple failures, this game actually does take a small step in the right 
 direction. The story, as bad as it is, has improved from a storyline akin to , oh lets say, Sonic 
 Riders. This game was made with a sense of refreshing novelty and a good story-boost kind of procedure 
 that it might be a good stepping stone for a good sonic game in the future. But stepping stone 
 it will remain, as I will be forever appalled by Sonic Team's choices in character and story. 
 
  
  Is it unfair of me to be so disappointed? I say: look at the facts. Anyone to say this game is 
 ANYWHERE CLOSE to a game like Mario RPG, which IMO, was a complete success, needs to do some thinking. 
 Number one, this means it CAN Be done. Mario RPG was a game that shattered my expectations by creating 
 a convincing universe with fun gameplay, great story, convincing characters, and excellent music. 
 And number 2, did I mention I wasn't a Mario fan really at all? A game can have 'heart' or it can 
 reek of 'hey bob, we need to make a few extra bucks.... lets just label 'sonic' on it and call it 
 a rap... oh its OK if the sound sucks or the story is crap, it'll sell enough'. This game, the Dark 
 Brotherhood, reeks of just that. And so games like the Xbox360 Sonic the Hedgehog, Sonic Adventure 
 series, Sonic Riders, and just about everything I can think of besides the Secret Rings, which 
 isn't by any means a great game. Recall Sonic wishing for a 'tissue box' as one of his last wishes 
 in that game..
  
  Close to a complete failure, but saved a little bit by its nice presentation. Anything beyond that, 
 though, is a poof of disappointing, smelly rot. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Andrew020889
Rating: 8.5
Date: Oct 22, 2008 5:07 pm PT
Review:  When I first heard about this game, I automatically hoped it would be like Super Mario RPG, but 
 it fell short in a couple of ways.
  
  As an RPG this game delivers. The battle system was different, but I really liked it. It makes 
 battles go faster. Battles are fought in rounds. Depending on the speed of the characters thats 
 how many turns you would get in that round. For example sonic usually got three turns, while Eggman 
 only got one. In battle you could attack, defend, use items, and use POW moves. The Pow moves are 
 just like magic in other RPG games. Battles run smoothly, and there aren't really any complaints 
 about the battle system. So overall as RPG combat goes this game excells.
  
  As far as everything else it feels just kind of average. The game is about 15-20 hours long, which 
 is good for a handheld game. The story is pretty average. The chaos emeralds are stolen and its 
 up to sonic and friends to get them back. (Sounds familiar doesn't it?) But that doesnt necessarily 
 hurt the game. The ending was really weird, which ruined part of the game for me. The design of 
 the game is pretty average. There are a little over 10 areas to visit and they are pretty small. 
 Plus the game is pretty easy. The map tells you where to go. Its really hard to get lost in the 
 game. Some puzzles and bosses are tough, but not to many. 
  
  If you are a sonic fan or RPG fan this will definitely catch your eye. It's fun, and fairly simple. 
 But more than likely it will get looked over in this Fall's huge line up of AAA games. It does 
 come across as very average. The combat system is a plus, but everything else feels mediocre. I 
 feel a little dissapointed because I knew this game could've been epic (like Super Mario RPG!) 
 but it fell short. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: LK9988
Rating: 8
Date: Oct 22, 2008 1:53 pm PT
Review:  Good Stuff:
  .Sharp graphics.
  .Awesome artworks.
  .Great storyline.
  .Awesome JRPG styled gameplay.
  .Many characters, all sharing their own backstory.
  .Quite long.
 
  .Nice music.
  
  Bad Stuff:
  .Terrible sound quality.
  .Some dumb sound effects.
  .Waaaaaaaaaaaay too easy bosses.
  .Sonic's eyes.
  
  As I said. This is a great RPG but like 
 most games, it has it's share of flaws.
  
  First I'll get over the game's biggest flaw, sound quality. It's just plain terrible. It's hard 
 to describe it's sound quality, but listen to this-it's just baaaaaaaaaaaaaaad.
  
  The sound effects are easy to describe though, but the sound effects are irrelevent and bad to. 
 I HATE the sound effect of when enemies get knocked out/die. It goes like "Boioioioing!" and it 
 makes a solid RPG sound like a goofy, cartoon game. Other bad sound effects include enemies making 
 random farting and burping noises, one of Amy's POW moves e. t. c.
  
  The bosses in this game are waaaaaaaaaaaay too easy as said before. Eventually a boss will just 
 be made of one enemy who uses just basic attacks and has 600HP. Meanwhile a normal battle will 
 contain about 4 enemies using special, hard to dodge attacks and have about 350HP each. Now, what 
 do you think would be harder?
  
  Now, I'll go onto the good things that makes this a great experience. The first is the great graphics. 
 Apart from the bug eyes on characters, the graphics are exceptional for a DS game. The artworks 
 though is where this game really shines. You should see for yourself, I think there the best artworks 
 to ever be in a sonic game!
  
  The storyline is another standing point of this game. The story is highly gripping and (SPOILERS!) 
 has a cliffhanger ending, leaving you just wanting more. You even get to choose what Sonic says 
 in most conversation, so you can either listen to what people have to say and learn more storyline, 
 speed past conversation, be nice or even be a complete jerk to others! (which is what I did to 
 Amy on my first playthrough) .
  
  The gameplay is nice too. It's like a traditional JRPG style gameplay with some twists, one of 
 these being a Sonic RPG! The other twist is POW moves. These are special attacks where you must 
 do 3 types of touch screen minigames in order to conduct the attack better. You must also use the 
 touch screen to avoid enemy attacks. 
  
  I could go on, so here's the summing up:
  
  Graphics: Their exeptional for a DS game, expecially the artworks! 9/10
  
  Sound: As I said, 
 unfortunatley, it's terrible. = ( 2/10
  
  Music: It's very nice, but sound quality does bring it down a bit. 7/10
  
  Story: Probably 
 the most highly engaging storyline in a Sonic game yet, and you get to choose what Sonic says! 
 9/10
  
  Gameplay: It sure does get repetitive, but that's to be expected. It's solid JRPG style gameplay. 
 8.5/10
  
  Overall: It's highly reccommended, but due to low sound quality and how many others have hated 
 this game, you might want to rent it first. 8/10
  
  
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Renegade_Fury
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jan 15, 2009 1:58 am PT
Review:  This game is well thought out, with a better story than anything Sonic Team could have thought 
 of. That is not to say this game is without flaws, but it feels like a learning experience as Bioware 
 even said so themselves. Choices are frequent, at least at the start. During the middle and near 
 the end, however, your choices become limited. This felt a bit rushed, because I want to be an 
 **** like a really big ****. This game has a lot of potential as it's choice and story driven like 
 Mass Effect. I sincerely hope that Bioware does make a sequel. Also apparently I need 100 more 
 words according to GameSpot, and who is actually reading this review in the first place eh? Go 
 buy this game, now. jd dhajdhj dhjadhhjad hdjhajdhhd hdajhjdjh jdahhajh hdajdh jdhajhdhadh jhjhdajdhadjdajdh 
 hdhajdh hdjadh hdhajdhh djdhjahdhadjdhh hdajhdhdh jdjadhdh hdjaj 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TissueShoe
Rating: 6.5
Date: Oct 21, 2008 4:53 pm PT
Review:  Positive: + excellent graphics + some of the POW moves are really cool + the Sonic universe is 
 portrayed well +
  
  Negative: - dreadful camera  battle system could use some help  poor sound effects  annoying 
 enemies  Big the Cat! -
  
  Sonic is in desperate need of a great game. Sure the Sonic Rush series has been doing well, but 
 he still needs some kind of huge success to get him back on his feet. In an attempt to bring about 
 that desirable future, BioWare has brought Sonic into the wonderful world of RPG's in Sonic Chronicles: 
 The Dark Brotherhood. Does it succeed in bringing our beloved hedgehog back or does it only put 
 him in more desperate need of revival?
  
  Sonic Chronicles starts off by having you rescue Knuckles, who was captured by the Marauders when 
 they invaded the earth. Upon finding Knuckles, you befriend Eggman and proceed to infiltrate the 
 Marauder's headquarters. And that's as far as I got before I got sick of the game and started writing 
 this review. The story didn't seem too bad but I couldn't bring myself to play it enough to find 
 out how it ends, or progresses, for that matter.
  
  Being an RPG, Sonic Chronicles naturally relies heavily on its battles for gameplay. In these battles 
 you get to use four characters at once, which is cool. There are quite a few characters too but 
 to change your party you have to go all the way back to your 'base of operations' (so to speak, 
 the first of these is Tails' place) , and this is pretty annoying. 
  
  The battles progress in rounds: you tell each of your characters what to do, then you watch them 
 do it. Unless you have them do a POW move, in which case you will have to drag or tap circles with 
 good timing to execute the move right. This way of doing the attacks is pretty fun and easy to 
 learn, and overall it's not bad. There are many attacks that use combinations of two to four characters, 
 and despite the fact that they can be really cool, they're not always worth doing as they take 
 a turn and the amount of PP from each character involved. 
  
  One annoying thing about the battles is that your characters miss too much, and there isn't a whole 
 lot you can do about it. Another gripe I have is about the enemies, I mean do I really enjoy fighting 
 enemies that come back to life all the time? There are way too many self-regenerating enemies in 
 the game that come back unless they are the last enemies you defeat in the battle, and they don't 
 stop coming back until you end it. Too long!
  
  Enough about the battles, now let's talk about the gameplay outside of battle. Well, actually, 
 I'd rather not but for the sake of a review I will reminisce. The first thing I noticed about 
 the bird's-eye view gameplay is just how AWFUL and DREADFUL the camera is! It is CONSTANTLY shifting 
 and shaking, not to make you lose track of your character (thankfully) but it does make my eyes 
 hurt when I play it for very long. This is definitely one of the big problems with the game.
  
  There are puzzles to solve outside of battle too. These involve you moving your characters 
 around on switches to get to the next area! Uh woo hoo? That's what I thought. Not much fun. Then 
 there are the characters' abilities, which are good and bad. Tails' flying is fine, Knuckles' climbing 
 is ok, and the power ability is neat, and thankfully everyone can JUMP, but what's up with Big 
 the Cat? Why did they bother putting poison gas in the game? So they could annoy you by making 
 Big the only character that can walk through it? Let me know if you think of a better reason.
 
  
  On a more positive note, the graphics in Sonic Chronicles are excellent, maybe some of the best 
 on the DS. They're super smooth (except when the camera is shifting) and the cel-shade effect makes 
 the game look REALLY nice and clean.
  
  Unfortunately not all the technical aspects of The Dark Brotherhood are good: the sound and music 
 could use some help. The sound effects range from the classic Sonic sounds we all love to a "BOING!" 
 when you kill an enemy yeah, that's what I want to hear when I fight bad guys in a video game. 
 The characters also make funky sounds when they get hit. The music isn't necessarily bad; it just 
 isn't very good either. There's not much to describe in that section.
  
  Overall, Sonic Chronicles isn't a bad game it's just not very good either. It earns enough merit 
 to make some people like it, but there's also enough bad stuff in it that can make people (like 
 me) really not enjoy it. So I personally recommend you pass this one up, but you there's a chance 
 you would enjoy it. All the potential the game has seemed to go to waste, and if there's a sequel 
 I expect a LOT more.
  
  (please note that I did not lower the game's score because of Big the Cat)
  
  Gameplay: 6.5
 
  Graphics: 9
  Sound: 6
  Value: 6
  
  FINAL SCORE: 6.7/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: chocolate1325
Rating: 5.5
Date: Oct 21, 2008 4:36 pm PT
Review:  Sonic games recently in the past have been poor and this game Sonic Choronicles the DarkBrotherhood 
 was looking good so I decided to try it out but I ended up dissapointed and here is my opinion 
 of the game.
  
  Story
  
  After defeating Dr Eggman Sonic and the gang take a well earned vacation and Sonic gets told that 
 Knuckles has been kidnapped in the game so its up to Sonic and the others to rescue him.
  
  Gameplay
  
  The game is controlled using the stylus like Phantom Hourglass but it just doesn't 
 feel like a Sonic game to me it feels a bit slow and the battle system is one of the most annoying 
 parts of the game. Sometimes you struggle early on against strong enemies and most of the battles 
 can take up to 15 to 20 minutes whereas you think of the Mario ones that is only for a boss. Also 
 there is a running away part if you feel like you want to bewcause you are losing but that part 
 is annoying because of all the crates and having to keep an eye on all 4 characters. The dialogue 
 is pointless I think it did seem pointless to add it and was really not worth it because you have 
 to talk along time and you can give different remarks like Mass Effect but it doesn't change the 
 point of the game at all. The party most of the characters are actually not that fun to use and 
 pulling off some of there moves in battle mode can be very difficult and sometimes requires a bit 
 of luck.
  
  
  Sound and graphics
  
  Nice tunes from the old Sonic games like Green Hill for example the graphics are actually pretty 
 good for the game.
  
  Overall opinion
  
  I think this game had a good chance of actually being very good but the battle system is one of 
 the biggest critcisms of the game for me both the main battle system and the running away battle 
 system and some of the characters are annoying. I don't like most of the Sonic characters. Some 
 attacks I found really difficult to do. I am not really a fan of RPGS anyway but I gave it a try 
 considering it was a Sonic game. Overall quiet dissapointed because I thought this could match 
 the Mario RPGS but it doesn't even come close. If you want a good RPG thats easy to play get Mario 
 and Luigi Partners in Time this game is just very difficult to like. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GabuEx
Rating: 7.5
Date: Oct 19, 2008 11:23 pm PT
Review:  Sonic Chronicles: The Dark Brotherhood was an odd game right from the start: an RPG, starring Sonic 
 the Hedgehog, developed by the venerable Bioware. It's not what one would call the typical format 
 in which one would expect to find the Blue Blur, and it was a rather strong "what the?" moment 
 when it was first announced. Some were skeptical, noting that speed is one of the defining characteristics 
 of Sonic, and is a characteristic that would be rather difficult to encapsulate in a standard turn-based 
 RPG, indicating that the game will probably be a dud. Others were more optimistic, citing the example 
 of Super Mario RPG: Legend of the Seven Stars, developed by the company then known as Squaresoft, 
 and arguing that it had the potential to be a spectacular reinvigoration of the Sonic universe.
 
  
  The reality is, as it often is, somewhere in the middle. There are a number of areas that could 
 be marked as having room for improvement within Sonic Chronicles. The game is a fair bit on the 
 short side compared with other titles available for the DS; the story is, on the whole, lackluster, 
 and not too engaging; and the background music can be at times atrocious.
  
  Yet, on the whole, I can't help but feel that despite all of the flaws in the game, the fundamentals 
 are nonetheless sound. If a sequel was developed that fixed the problems and built off of the foundation 
 established in this game, Sega could have a real groundbreaking winner on its hands. Thus, if the 
 test of whether or not a game meets the acceptability bar is set to be whether or not its player 
 would like to see more in a sequel, then Sonic Chronicles definitely passes in that regard. As 
 this game stands, however, it's pretty good, but not quite great.
  
  Probably one of the game's biggest strengths is its surprisingly excellent attention to detail 
 as far as the Sonic universe is concerned. Already established fans of the Sonic series will be 
 assuredly pleased with this aspect of the game - Bioware has quite clearly spared no expense (and 
 likely worked very close with Sega) to ensure that the game is completely and fully correct as 
 far as Sonic canon is concerned. As for the obvious question of whether or not the framework laid 
 out by canon translated well to an RPG model, the answer is yes - to a point.
  
  Ironically, however, perhaps one of Sonic Chronicles biggest downsides is that it perhaps pays 
 too MUCH attention to Sonic canon. The game includes everything that one would expect from past 
 Sonic games: loop-the-loops that Sonic can complete, rings, Chaos Emeralds, Eggman and his robots, 
 G. U. N. - you name it, it's probably in the game in some form or another. The game is a veritable 
 smorgasbord of Sonic elements, and while it's commendable that Bioware made such an amazing effort 
 to give Sonic fans everything they expect, I can't help but feel that they could have been a little 
 more selective in what was and wasn't included.
  
  One of the biggest strengths of Super Mario RPG, probably the best game to compare Sonic Chronicles 
 with, was its willingness to throw out the parts of Mario games that didn't really work in an RPG 
 setting, and to replace them with elements which worked much better, despite being totally non-canonical 
 as far as the Mario universe was concerned (Mallow, Geno, Smithy, etc.) . I think the same could 
 be applied to Sonic Chronicles, as well - stuff like the loop-the-loops seemed like a cute nod 
 to old-school Genesis games, but otherwise seemed tacked on for the most part, and didn't really 
 seem like a necessary, integral part of the game. Another annoyance was the fact that there was 
 only a set number of rings in the game to be collected, and any others someone might need had to 
 be collected indirectly by selling items (which, fortunately, were retrieved after every battle) .
 
  
  The story could also have used some improvement. While it wasn't bad, it wasn't really engaging, 
 abounding with twists and turns, and exuding an epic feel in the way that the story of a truly 
 great RPG might be. When I completed the game, it felt as thought the story should have just been 
 getting going and I should have been reaching the "and now it gets good" part, but alas, no such 
 luck - the game was over. Again, I felt that the game suffered from its tendency to stick too closely 
 to canon as far as the story went, as well.
  
  There were some new aspects introduced that hadn't been seen before in the Sonic universe (which 
 I will not detail out of my desire not to provide spoilers - there ARE certainly things to spoil) , 
 but on the whole the story seemed a little too safe. Yet, at the same time, it seemed like it could 
 have been more safe still; it was as if Bioware (or Sega - I'm not sure who had the largest say 
 regarding the story) was unsure, even as they released the game, of whether or not they wanted 
 to keep it solely within the established Sonic universe or whether they wanted to let loose and 
 show the players Sonic and his world as they've never been seen before. In my own humble opinion, 
 I think they would have been better served doing the latter.
  
  The selection of characters in the game is pretty good, and provides a pretty representative sampling 
 of the Sonic universe. There are eleven playable characters in total, and only one of them is a 
 character newly introduced for this particular game. The character balance was good as well - while 
 there are a few characters who are pretty useless once better characters come along, there isn't 
 really one single "best" selection of four characters that dominates all the rest; many have their 
 own strengths and weaknesses.
  
  The game also gives a nod to other Bioware games such as Mass Effect by including a dialog system 
 where you can choose what you want Sonic to say to someone. This system, however, seemed much less 
 robust than it was in Mass Effect, and the only real point gained from it is the ability to ask 
 relevant questions. However Sonic responds to something is largely immaterial with respect to the 
 grand scheme of what happens in the game, and that's a point that I believe could be improved in 
 subsequent games as well.
  
  The gameplay - always the core of any game - was well-done enough in its own right. It's a fairly 
 standard RPG fare - your character can be moved around in an overworld, and in that overworld you 
 can run into enemies (literally run into them, that is - that's how battles are started) . Once 
 in a battle, you have your standard attacks, your items, your "defend" command, your "flee" command, 
 and your special abilities. In Sonic Chronicles, these special abilities are called POW moves, 
 and take up PP (POW Points, I suppose) . Some POW movies are solely performed by the initiator of 
 them, while others require two, three, or even all four members of your party to participate.
 
  
  Bioware seemed to take notes from Elite Beat Agents with regards to POW moves - when carrying out 
 or defending yourself against any POW move, circles appear on screen that you must either tap at 
 the right time, follow with the stylus, or tap eight times within a time limit. If successful, 
 the move will either be more powerful (if it's your attack) , will succeed (if it's a support move) , 
 or will have damage lessened (if it's an enemy's attack) . This is a fairly nifty way of doing things, 
 and it adds a fair bit of interactivity, although I thought that it might have been better to emulate 
 what was happening on screen more than was done - as it stands now the circles seemed to be off 
 in their own world for a little bit, and fairly unrelated to the action being performed.
  
  Probably one of the biggest surprises was how relatively poor the audio in the game. Ever since 
 their Sega Genesis days, Sonic games have always been known to have superb music, so it was a bit 
 of a letdown to see that not carry over into Sonic Chronicles, especially given that many other 
 Bioware games as well had excellent soundtracks. There were some notable exceptions that were great 
 tracks, but on the whole the background music was only lackluster, and was at times just downright 
 bad. The sound effects could have been improved, as well, although they were only ever mediocre 
 - never quite crossing the threshold into "bad".
  
  But once the chips are down, there's really only one question to which gamers really want the answer: 
 is the game fun? And the answer to that question, despite all of the game's drawbacks, is yes. 
 Sonic Chronicles is not perfect, and it's not the game that will convince Sonic detractors that 
 they should rethink their position, but it's nonetheless a solid first step for hedgehogs into 
 the land of RPGs. If you're a Sonic fan, then you definitely should pick this game up, and if you're 
 a DS owner looking for an RPG, then you also ought to give this game a fair look. I understand 
 that the next edition to Sonic Chronicles is already being written, so I for one am looking forward 
 to it - I earnestly hope that Bioware can successfully use the foundation they've built in The 
 Dark Brotherhood to push the next game across the threshold of greatness. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Snatte
Rating: 8
Date: Oct 19, 2008 11:59 am PT
Review:  So yea, just to start things off... i'm a sonic fan, so there... now i've given you a chance to 
 judge every word which i'm about to write, and no... you don't need to believe me, just so you 
 know.
  
  Sonic Chronicles, what do i want to say about you?
  The first thing that comes to my mind is definitely this:
  you were not made by sonic team, which 
 can be seen as both good, or bad... does sonic and his friends belong in the RPG-genre ? good question, 
 i'll get back to that.
  
  Well, as you can see i went and gave this game an 8.0 out of 10. And i thought that it'd be pretty 
 sweet if i would explain, why? why does it deserve that score ?
  and no, it's not just because you get to be a complete deushbag to Amy, no, it's not. (that's just 
 a bonus)
  
  what makes this game "wantable" (yes, i just made that word up, patent-pending, mind you) is the 
 artistic feeling of it all. Not just that, of course, but also the fact that the battle system 
 works surprisingly well, repetitive... extremely repetitive (which is one of the reasons why i 
 didn't give it an even higher score) but, it works... and lazy as i am, i'm satisfied with anything 
 that's "ok". (like my grades... yes)
  
  and, lazy as i am, i'm just gonna end this review right .............. nah, i'm just playin with 
 ya ! can you imagine ? (family guy reference, pretty much)
  
  but anyway, do sonic (and his not-so-loveable friends) belong in the RPG-genre ? well... others 
 have done it, and they've done it better, but that doesn't mean that this one's BAD (well, ignoring 
 Rouge talking like a street whore, she's BAD) it just means... that we should wait... as we always 
 have to to with sonic... let's just keep that naive hope up, and maybe someday our deepest, wettest 
 dreams (fur**** not those sort'a dreams) will come true.
  "dreams of sonic ripping Amy's head off"
   . 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: lord_dingdong95
Rating: 2.5
Date: Oct 16, 2008 9:36 am PT
Review:  Rent it and don't buy it. The story is okay but the game could have been way longer. Every Sonic 
 game of after the Gamecube is a complete rip-off. Sonic has just lost his flair and of course if 
 they make another Sonic RPG I hope they actually think about making it good and having an interesting 
 story unlike this game. Pokemon Mystery Dungeon was better and that's saying something because 
 Mystery Dungeon sucked. The graphics are okay but the battles get tiresome since the enemies own 
 you before you kill them. The best part of the game is the revealing background of Knuckles. They 
 already made a game with Shadow's and Sonic's background so this is a welcome addition of information 
 about one of the oldest characters. Oh, and the characters level really slowly. Everything is extremely 
 overpriced and all the gear for your characters is WAY overpriced for the crappy effects that they 
 give you. I like the idea of the Chao Garden but it's not the way I wanted it. You can't raise 
 your chao and instead you just leave them alone and equip the ones you want to partner your character. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: megamannt123
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 13, 2008 2:10 pm PT
Review:  Cliffhanger ending? Noooo! Oh, well, that means another game! Well I knew it would be cool after 
 reading news about it and it hit right on the mark! This game is flat out awesome! From the story 
 to the gameplay to the graphics, everything was excellent. And this is actually my first review 
 for a new game, go figure?
  
  Well, the story starts out with you having to find knuckles who has been kidnapped by the mysterious 
 Mauraders that make up the dark brotherhood. These mauraders are actually nocturnal echidnas who 
 survived perfect chaos's wrath and have now come back to claim the world and everything else for 
 themselves, thanks to their crazy ruler, imperator Ix. The characters are still original, with 
 a few new additions of course. 
  
  The gameplay is very cool, as it has you using the stylis to move sonic, interact with things on 
 the map, talk, and fight. The combat is final fantasy based, but the way it has you using the stylis 
 to tap, drag, and multitap for special moves makes it fun! (Elite beat agents, I know but that's 
 just another mix in) . The enemies are original and fighting them goes really smooth with the awesome 
 graphics. The characters include sonic, tails, amy, rouge, knuckles, cream, shadow, omega, eggman, 
 shade (one of the mauraders that joins you later) , and various other faces make this game an enjoyable 
 experience. In case you wonder, the best combat team is Sonic, Shade, Cream, and Shadow, with the 
 occasional adding of omega.
  
  On the huge maps, you collect rings and chao eggs to buy stuff and equip on characters (the chao) like 
 extra equipment and useful items. Also while playing, you can take part in side missions to acquire 
 experience and items. One thing that I loved is the conversations you can take part in, allowing 
 you to respond in different ways to get more backround to the story, get straight to the main story, 
 or reply with smart aleck remarks that are pretty funny. The only bad thing is that the combat 
 can get repetitive and tiring at times but that's it.
  
  I've always been a fan of level up games, but this was a great mix for me. Everything about it 
 just rubs me the right way. I recommend it for everyone, and I'm waiting for the second game. Go 
 Bioware!!! Thanks! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: LinusBlue
Rating: 8.5
Date: Oct 12, 2008 8:08 pm PT
Review:  Ill start off by saying that this deserves more than the 6.5 it got from Gamespot. The combat is 
 fast paced and fun, if not particularly deep. this review will be in 4 sections, graphics, sound, 
 gameplay and story.
  
  Graphics- very colorful and cheery. They look very good for a DS but aren't quite up to par with 
 the best. The backgrounds are for the most part 2D with 3D character models running around. (lots 
 of PS1 RPGs did this) The games world is also not particularly large even for a hand held game. 
 9.0
  
  Sound- Sound is where this game fails hard. I loved the opening theme and it got my hope up high. 
 (coupled with the fact that i like the music on most sonic games) But the actual in game music 
 is dull and unnoteworthy. And most of it is actually from sonic 3D blast. 7.0
  
  Gameplay- This is where this game shines. The combat is fast paced and fun. Think like an old traditional 
 RPG with stylus actions mixed in to make it seem more action oriented. Its not particularly deep 
 but when your on a bus with an old granny next to you yelling "WHAT?" over and over you don't want 
 something deep and intricate. The only possible complaint is that there should have been more than 
 3 different types of stylus actions for you POW moves. 9.5
  
  Story- Passable but not Bioware quality at all. Its uninteresting at the start then its silly later. 
 But this is a sonic game so IL let that fly. 8.0
  
  Overall- For any sonic fan its a must buy. ( if you are you've probably already done so) but even 
 if your not, anyone who is looking for an RPG on their DS should look no further.
  
  By the way- This is my first review so don't go into a frothing spitting rage if you don't like 
 it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Miroku16
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 12, 2008 3:48 pm PT
Review:  I'm going to state with the end in mind: A great game, just a few minor things that make it fall 
 a bit short. Nobody thought that the words "sonic and "rpg" would be used together in the same 
 sentence. Well, they were wrong. And it works great. The battle system is great, except for the 
 lack of touch screen commands. There should be at least 15 or 20 different things you can do for 
 POW attacks. The game definitely has an RPG feel to it, although lightly. Which, in this case, 
 is good. Not many people who are Sonic fans are RPG fans. so this may be a first for many Sonic 
 fans, and it's a good introductory RPG. Honestly, Gamespot. How in the world can you give this 
 game a 6.5?? I'm beginning that just because Sonic has had a few crappy games lately, you all feel 
 that Sonic HAS to have bad reviews. Many people who've played this game disagree. TRUST ME. Anyways, 
 back to the subject at hand, Sonic Chronicles: The Dark Brotherhood is a great game, with just 
 a few minor mistakes. I'd recommend it to any Sonic fan for sure. If you're more of an RPG fan 
 looking for a hardcore RPG game, rent this one first. Hey, everybody's a critic, hunh? (Yes, that 
 includes me too.) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Statsgirl
Rating: 1.5
Date: Oct 11, 2008 9:06 am PT
Review:  I was so excited and happy to pick up the newest Sonic game. It looked like it had so much potential, 
 especially the graphics which were awesome.
  
  But when I discovered I had to use the stylus the whole entire game, I was bummed. I felt it was 
 just really clumsy way of playing Sonic. Give me the days of using the A button to control the 
 blinding speed of Sonic.
  
  Not only that but the battles were lousy too, if I wanted a good role playing game- I would buy 
 a Final Fantasy one, not Sonic.
  
  Aside from that the graphics were awesome. What would have been better would have been a blend 
 of using the Stylus for the boss battles, and for the rest of the game control you use the control 
 pad.
  
  The other thing I would have done, was just left the Sonic product alone-instead of making it a 
 Final Fantasty wannabe.
  
  Sorry guys at Bio Ware- I would try your hand at something else. Stay away from Sonic- because 
 that was one of the worse games ever.
  
  My recommendation rent before you buy if you want to try this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Josh_3691
Rating: 6.5
Date: Oct 10, 2008 11:04 am PT
Review:  Ok first things first I don't usually like RPG's and so the decision to buy this game was purely 
 because of my love for Sonic the Hedgehog and the fact that Mass Effect wasn't terrible (it wasn't 
 that good mind you) . So I thought to myself lets give the RPG genre a chance to redeem itself and 
 Sonic Chronicles goes some way to doing that but falls short of the mark in too many areas.
  
  The story to this game is highly forgettable it turns out some guy called Emperor Ix has decided 
 to destroy or enslave (I'm honestly not certain) the world and it's up to Sonic and Co. to save 
 the day. Unfortunately the story doesn't keep you hooked and you'll find yourself reaching for 
 that skip button quite a lot. This been a Bioware game it has the Multi-Choice answer scheme and 
 as far as I can tell it doesn't matter what you choose as it makes no difference to the outcome 
 and although it is fun been constantly sarcastic to everyone no one ever makes a big deal about 
 it, in fact they laugh it off and smile at you almost like they have really low self-esteem or 
 something. This been a Sonic game though it has the crux of all the others ones and that is the 
 side characters. Now I am fine with Sonic, Tails and Knuckles there cool, Robotnik and Omega are 
 alright as well but the rest of them can go die for all I would care, I mean who honestly likes 
 Rouge the Bat and if you do you are officially an idiot and probably a disappointment to your parents.
 
  
  Ok on to the Gameplay and it isn't that bad it's your standard RPG formula run around environment, 
 pick up needed object and bring it back. There are side-quests to do if you want but there just 
 more of the same and gets boring fast. There are Chao's and rings to collect if you want but getting 
 everything doesn't do anything and is pretty much pointless ( the Chao's though do have a feature 
 where you can attach them to your character and they will give you special abilities but only a 
 few of them have any use) . The battle system itself is turn-based and the only bit of real interest 
 about it is the POW move system where you can activate special moves by tapping and sliding your 
 stylus in time with the circles, and speaking as someone who has 17 S-Ranks on Hard Rock on EBA 
 it is incredibly easy to do. The enemies also have POW moves but they can be blocked in the same 
 screen tapping way and so it gets to the point where you want the enemies to do a POW move as they 
 are easy to block and do no damage then. The main problem with the battle system is the Flee move 
 when you can escape from battle but it does it so you have to jump over boxes as you run by tapping 
 the character to do so but tapping the characters is awkward and you will need a perfectly calibrated 
 screen for it to work well.
  
  The Graphics to this game are quite nice, the backgrounds are very detailed and the cities are 
 well designed with many secret passages for those who like to explore but when you get to the battle 
 screen the backgrounds are horrible and you wonder why Bioware couldn't have made them to the same 
 standard as the rest of the game. The music though will be great to some and be incredibly annoying 
 to others and there certainly isn't any classic Sonic tunes that you'll want to listen to again 
 and I found myself playing with the sound off.
  
  This game is too easy and it doesn't actually take you that long to complete it I would say most 
 people will complete it within 15-20 hours which isn't great for an RPG but not terrible for a 
 handheld console I guess. The thing is though the boss battles are far to easy and if you have 
 levelled up your character enough you will never be faced with too many problems, especially when 
 you consider that you practically fall over health and PP restorers so there is never really any 
 problems.
  
  There is a Wi-Fi mode where you can trade the Chao's you have collected but I don't see why anybody 
 would want to do that I mean there are only 47 of them and I managed to find 41 of them without 
 even trying so I can hardly recommend this. There is no Multi-Player mode which is a shame because 
 a Co-Op mode could have worked but this will hopefully be considered for the next game.
  
  Maybe the biggest thing going against Sonic Chronicles is that there are so many RPG's on the Nintendo 
 DS and quite frankly most of them are better for example Final Fantasy 3 + 4 (if you like that 
 sort of thing) and The World Ends With You (which is the best on the console) . 
  
  So did Sonic Chronicles make me fall in love with the RPG genre? The answer to that is a resounding 
 No but there is scope for a really good game in here and with a sequel already confirmed it just 
 needs a bit of refining which Bioware is more than capable of. This has to be a game for die hard 
 Sonic fans and RPG fanatics only and you might be wise waiting for the sequel instead.
  
  Pros
  
  + Nice Graphics with detailed backgrounds
  + The Battle system isn't terrible.
 
  
  Cons
  
  - Story is Boring and very forgettable
  - Battle system isn't that great either
  - Too easy and short 
  - Not as good as TWEWY
  
 
  Overall
  
  6.5 
::::::

::::::
UserName: JolteonEX
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 9, 2008 10:43 pm PT
Review:  Just to let you know this is my first review. I'll try to make it sound fluent.
  At first glance at this game I thought,"How are they going to pull something like that off?!"I 
 bet there where others who thought the same thing. Ikept my eye on it for a while and decided to 
 take a chance. I bought it started it up and went to work. I was greatly impressed at how they made 
 it. The storyline was built perfectly and the battles where outstanding.
  I'll go ahead and say that the story was less corny compared to the others. There's a good amount 
 of humor in it so you'll laugh quite a bit.
  As for the battles, you can pick it up pretty quickly. The POW moves aren't that hard to preform, except 
 for Creams. The enemies are challenging and can be fustrating at times.
  The music went along well with the game. Decent world music, impressive battle music, and not to bad 
 with the dramatic music.
  To sum it all up, Sonic Chronicles: The Dark Brotherhood was done exceptionaly well and is worth 
 playing. It might just blow you away. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sonicdude123
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 9, 2008 2:04 pm PT
Review:  We have two confessions. Our first is that when we were younger, back in the Mega Drive days, we 
 used to love Sonic almost as much as we loved Mario. Our second is that in recent years we've grown 
 less fond of him, partly due to his hip new 'attitude' that he's earned which annoys us every time 
 he opens his mouth and says something with his smarmy voice. So when we first heard that a Sonic 
 RPG was coming to the DS we thought "sounds great... shame it'll have the new Sonic in it, not 
 the old one". Turns out we were wrong.
  
  Sonic Chronicles is old-school. There are no embarrassing wise-cracks, no 'rad' American voice 
 acting and no "oh my God isn't Sonic so awesome, kids" moments. In fact, one of the first things 
 that surprised us after we started the game was how normal Sonic has become.
  
  Advertisement:
  Sonic Youth
  You see, when the game begins it's been a long time since Sonic 
 last beat Eggman and he's been travelling alone on the other side of the world. Suddenly he gets 
 a call from Tails who tells him that Knuckles has gone missing and the Chaos Emeralds are gone. 
 Sonic rushes back to the Green Hill Zone and is reunited with his old pal but he quickly realises 
 that things have changed. He's no longer the hero who always saves the day, and since he's been 
 away his friends have learned not to rely on him anymore. There's a scene an hour into the game 
 where Rouge The Bat has a go at him for being gone for so long and thinking he can just come back 
 and make everything okay again. When Sonic asks the others if they feel the same way, Tails quietly 
 replies "well, you have been away for a long time". Even his devoted admirer Amy Rose shyly claims 
 she has a boyfriend now.
  You can't help but feel sorry for Sonic during this scene, and that's the big difference in Sonic 
 Chronicles. For the first time in years he's no longer this near-invincible hero: you don't feel 
 like he's cool enough to do whatever he wants and overcome anything without fear of danger. For 
 the first time in years you don't have the feeling that no matter how many times you make him die 
 he's going to end up saving the day anyway because he's so damn awesome. For the first time in 
 years Sonic seems vulnerable, and you feel like you have a duty to help him.
  
  Telling Tails
  It's this care and attention to the storyline that makes Sonic Chronicles so much 
 more than just an RPG with Sonic dumped into it. We had the feeling this would be the case. It's 
 developed by BioWare, the team behind such fantastic RPG adventures as Mass Effect, Jade Empire 
 and Star Wars: Knights Of The Old Republic, so the fact that it has a compelling story isn't surprising.
 
  
  Naturally, a great story means nothing if the game itself is a complete slog to play but luckily 
 this isn't the case with Sonic Chronicles. The gameplay is split into two distinct sections: exploration 
 and battle. The exploration sections take place throughout the game's various different zones, 
 which are beautifully designed and fit in well with the game's unique art style.
  
  You can have up to four characters in your team (you can choose who's in your party any time you 
 reach a safe house) , but for the most part you only ever control one of them, switching between 
 the four by touching the character icons on the top of the screen. Getting around is a breeze. 
 You simply hold your stylus on the screen to make your character run in that direction. The tactical 
 element comes into play when you realise that some areas can only be reached by certain characters. 
 Only Sonic has enough speed to use loop-the-loops and get up large ramps, only Tails and Rouge 
 can fly over large gaps, only Knuckles can climb and so on. Since you only have four characters 
 in your team and there are more than four different types of obstacle, you have to plan ahead and 
 decide which team is the best for exploring certain areas.
  
  Brass Knuckles
  There are a total of eleven playable characters who can end up joining your team. These characters 
 are added as the story progresses: when you start the game you're on your own as Sonic, then Amy 
 Rose joins you shortly afterward, then you team up with Tails and so forth. Some characters, like 
 Cream the Rabbit, only join you when you perform a task for them (in this case finding Cheese, 
 her favourite Chao) . Other characters are added to your team as the story progresses, and include 
 familiar faces like Knuckles, Big The Cat and (sigh) Shadow. There are even one or two rather surprising 
 additions to the party as the story progresses, including the person you'd least expect to help 
 Sonic (look at the panel opposite if you can't guess) .
  
  We haven't even touched on the battle side of things yet of course, and that's naturally the aspect 
 of the game that could either make it or break it. In this case it's a neatly designed system which 
 fits in well with the speedy nature of the characters involved. Fights are basically turn-based 
 affairs, but each fight consists of rounds. Each character gets a certain number of turns per round 
 depending on their experience (Sonic gets three, Cream only gets one) , and you choose their moves 
 before each round. You can assign standard attacks by tapping on the move then tapping on the enemy 
 you want to attack. This results in your character running over and smacking your opponent in typical 
 RPG fashion.
  
  Tap & Slap
  Your characters also have a number of POW moves, which use up PP points (a bit like magic points 
 in other RPGs) . Each character's POW attacks are dependent on their fighting style: Knuckles has 
 a special attack which punches through armour, whereas Tails has one called Tinker which lets him 
 weaken robots. There are also combination moves in which two characters team up, such as one where 
 Tails flies over an enemy carrying Sonic and drops him on them.
  These special moves are performed using an Elite Beat Agents-style mini game where you have to 
 tap circles and drag lines at the right time. This technique is also used to avoid special enemy 
 attacks. It's a basic addition but one which adds a bit of interactivity to a fighting system that's 
 often dull in other games.
  
  Had Sonic Chronicles simply been a standard RPG with generic characters in it, it would still have 
 been a fantastic title. The fact that it actually features familiar faces and backgrounds only 
 adds to the enjoyment. It may be an RPG instead of a platformer, but it feels like it fits perfectly 
 into the original series and is one of the best games that the spiky lad has ever featured in. 
 Welcome back, old Sonic. We've really missed you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: robotimmy
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 9, 2008 12:14 pm PT
Review:  absolutely cool this game is super it the best rpg next to final fantasy but with team attacks 
 and younger kids can play it! like i said before but it's dead cool i'v been waiting for a Sega 
 or Nintendo rpg for age's and here it is! and I hope they's a 2nd game to or one on the wii and 
 if there is I hope you get items to equip to your characters like fishing rod's for big, gloves 
 for knuckles and hammer's for amy also it would be cool if you got to be the bad guy's and take 
 over the would as well as on-line co-op or battle arena. Any way it was one of the best game i 
 ever played it's highly addictive it some thing you'll just what to pick up again and again and 
 you sonic fan's or lovers you'll just love it, you'll never get board of it also, the decide if 
 you what to say something good and glad or bad and annoyed is quite a nice feature and for the 
 story it's amazing, in the adventure it is cool to be able to do certain things with certain characters 
 makes it more fun getting all the chao egg's can be tricky but it's still fun to try. Over all 
 it's a superb game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: RAVEZero
Rating: 8.5
Date: Oct 11, 2008 10:32 pm PT
Review:  Sonic Chronicles is an addicting, challenging and welcome addition to the beloved franchise. While 
 it may not capture the sense of speed previous games are known for (meaning the Genesis and GBA) , 
 it doesn't have to. With an interesting storyline and addictive battle system, it's hard not to 
 experience this, whether your a fan of the Sonic games of not.
  
  As an RPG, you compose a party of 4 to take on the illusive Marauders after hearing they've kidnapped 
 Knuckles and, you guessed it, the Chaos Emeralds. Don't groan yet, it gets deeper. As you progress 
 through the game, you'll find recruit new members of the team, such as Cream, Shadow, and even 
 Eggman. Big the Cat joins in as well, but can somebody tell me why he's so annoying? Really, you 
 guys hate him like he's Jar-Jar.
  
  The main point of the game is the battle system. Now, you may have heard that you have to pay way 
 too much attention for battles. If you hear one of these dudes, shove The World Ends With You down 
 their throat. You have your basic attack moves, and depending upon the speed attribute, some characters 
 have the ability to attack more than twice in a single round. Sonic, of course, has this swag from 
 the beginning. 
  
  Now on to the POW moves. You have individual and team POW abilities depending upon who's in your 
 party. One POW involves Sonic getting dropped off by Tails in a kind of "bombs away" style move. 
 Cliche, I know, but it gets the job done. As the characters level up, more POW moves are available, 
 but in essence there isn't much to choose from. Some characters will have 7-8 at the most, with 
 only the option of increasing their levels at the price of skill points.
  
  The game is controlled only by touch screen, and the integration in to battling, while not perfect, 
 is quite fun. The POW moves make the most of touch, with some moves requiring a combination of 
 different touch types to be used for abilities. There's only three types and while some may find 
 it to get a tad redundant after awhile, others may find it just right.
  
  Besides the battles, the open field is another place of interest. As you traverse the different 
 Zones (Blue Ridge, the legendary Green Hill) , certain characters can reach certain areas of the 
 fields. Knuckles can climb steep walls to reach the top, Amy can smash through blocks to clear 
 roads, and Tails can fly over ridges. And like other RPG's, you have your shops to purchase new 
 gear and items to aid in battle.
  
  The trouble many may take with SC is that the POW moves will make up most of your arsenal, and 
 are unfortunately needed to take down most foes. Many of the basic attacks will at times do menial 
 damage, and some battles will force you into a POW move fest, even if your characters are at decent 
 enough levels. The reason for this imbalance? Lord only knows. And some of the sound effects, especially 
 the cheering children after finishing a fight, may grate on older gamers.
  
  SC: TDB is an amazing game, and a welcome and fresh addition to the franchise. With an immersive 
 storyline and addicting gameplay, it's good for the older generation, and something to provide 
 if you want to get your younger brother of sister into RPG's. Call it: "My 1st RPG With a Nice 
 Chunk of Kick-a**ery Mixed In."
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Cloud_765
Rating: 8
Date: Mar 29, 2009 8:50 am PT
Review:  BioWare pulled it off. Just as Square did for Mario, BioWare presented a good game in Sonic Chronicles. 
 
  
  The plot is a little different this time. Eggman is now a "hero" helping Sonic and his friends 
 stop the Nocturnus, led by Imperator Ix.
  
  The graphics, while somewhat strange, are surprisingly well-working. While characters are the easily 
 most appealing part of the graphics, the fact that the gam actually LOOKS like a Sonic game surprises 
 me. Lately, the games have looked strange. Different from normal Sonic games.
  
  The gameplay is much easier to pick up than Mario PiT. Instead of constant presses of A, B, X, 
 and Y, you use the Touch Screen to either tap a target at the right time, slide it along a red 
 dotted line, keeping the stylus in a circle, or rapidly tapping a circle 6 times. This is easier 
 to do and easier to pick up after being away from it for an amount of time.
  
  While the game may be too short, its humor keeps the light spirit of the game alive, and the fast-paced 
 boss fights remain true to Sonic fashion. Remember, this IS a Sonic game. If you're looking for 
 depth, and a hardcore RPG experience, look for a Tales or Final Fantasy game. But if you want a 
 light experience with fun, like, for example, Pokemon, this is a game to play.
  
  The loss of Wi-Fi is a serious issue. And it've been better to have a wider choice of equipment 
 and attacks. Unfortunately, when I meant light experience, I mean light in almost every sense. 
 Still, the plot is intriguing, the gameplay works glitch-free and fun-packed, and the battles are 
 well-balanced in difficulty. No spikes here.
  
  All in all, the game is good. It's a decent game, but some things that would've been good to add 
 were not added. When you get past that, you finally have a Sonic game in recent years with a story 
 you can follow along with. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sonictrainer
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 7, 2008 3:34 pm PT
Review:  Sonic Chronicles is the first Sonic RPG game. The story and plot is great, the controls are easy 
 (similar to Elite Beat Agents) , and the cast of characters have their own unique attacks, abilities, 
 and dialogue. Although the story begins with Sonic and friends looking for Knuckles, it becomes 
 a whole lot more than they bargained for. This game ties in the stories from past Sonic games and 
 fans of the comics and TV shows will notice certain references. Even when you see the ending, the 
 game will leave you asking for more!
  
  The game is touch screen based and will require battles to be won by strategy and skill. For example, 
 by tapping the circles correctly you can make an enemy's attack miss. Once you pick up this game, 
 you will not stop playing until you've completed everything 100%.
  
  Not only does the game have a great story line and sidequests, but Chao also make a return in this 
 game. You may not be able to raise them like before but you can to collect them and bond them with 
 your characters to get power-ups. There are even special exclusive Chao that are being released 
 soon.
  
  The game is easy to pick up and play. I beat this game without even using a strategy guide. If 
 you do need help, you can look in the Codex to remind yourself of what missions you need to complete, 
 or how to do certain controls.
  
  Overall, Sonic Chronicles is a good RPG game for Sonic fans or fans of RPGs on the DS. While there 
 are some complaints about the music, the game can be enjoyed either way. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Tartarus_Reaper
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 13, 2008 8:56 pm PT
Review:  What is it?
  ---
  Sonic Chronicles is the latest title from Canadian developer BioWare, most known for the wildly 
 popular Star Wars: Knights of the Old Republic and Baldur's Gate franchise. So far, the developer 
 has only created for PC and Microsoft platforms, with this title being their first foray into the 
 handheld market. It's a strange concept to be sure, but it's nothing Mario hasn't done, and this 
 game itself is a love letter to that series.
  
  Gameplay: 9/10
  ---
  Being a generally action RPG-based developer, it was quite surprising to see BioWare opt for a 
 turn-based system in their first handheld RPG. It was a sound choice, however, as this game's battles 
 are truly fun. Like a typical turn-based game, outcomes are determined by the game's 4 base stats: 
 Speed, Attack, Defense, and Luck (Critical Hit chance) , which increase with every level, and you're 
 also given a bonus point to distribute as well. Speed and attack tend to play the biggest role 
 in most fights, as most tend to last less than 3 rounds, and speed actually determines how many 
 actions a character gets to perform per round. Sonic is the fastest character, as he should be, 
 and gets the advantage of being able to act 3 times right from the get-go, while more rounded characters 
 like Tails and Knuckles get to act twice, and slow characters like Big and Omega get to act only 
 once. However, each character has their own unique strengths to make up for any short-comings, 
 specifically in the games "POW" moves, which are similar to any other RPG's magic or special moves. 
 These moves are performed by tapping and sliding the stylus across the screen in a specific motions, 
 making the style very similar to Super Mario RPG. However, these gestures are a bit more important 
 than the "timed hits" and doing them wrong could possibly result in the failure to pull off a critical 
 defense or healing move. This produces a more action packed turn-based system, that keeps the otherwise 
 traditional fights from getting old. These moves are bought upon level up, with points you receive, 
 you can also upgrade them 2 times, with level 1 costing 5, 2 costing 10, and 3 costing 15. Some 
 may say that the tapping may get old, but I myself found it rather welcome that BioWare tried to 
 make it so you weren't just watching the action. If you are having trouble with fights, they've 
 given the player Chao that can "bond" with a character to augment the way they handle themselves 
 in battle. For instance, if you can't just consistently pull off Cream's healing moves, then you 
 can stick a Chao named Ferox on her, which makes all POW moves succeed without having to do the 
 gestures. Other chao can increase damage, resistance, and luck, as well as unique effects such 
 as boosting XP earned and giving you more items at the end of every battle.
  
  The game also does away with the generally bland dungeons of most RPGs, and replaces them with 
 "zones". Each zone is littered with plenty of rings (the game's currency) and Chao eggs to collect, 
 and some require some critical thinking to grab. There are also plentiful puzzles throughout that 
 game, that require you to use all 4 of your party members solve. These little touches made exploring 
 these areas fun, and I found myself trying to get everything before moving on to the next.
  
  Music: 7/10
  ---
  The music in the game, for the most part, is something you won't right 
 home about. Some of the songs, however, stand out because they're remixes of recognizable songs 
 in the Sonic universe such as: the final boss music from Sonic 3, Panic Puppet Zone (Sonic 3D Blast 
 Saturn) , and Tidal Tempest from Sonic CD. The battle music is also enjoyable, but most of the other 
 songs are forgettable.
  
  Story: 10/10
  ---
  A Sonic game... having a good story? I know, it's hard to believe, but it's mostly due to BioWare's 
 excellent writing. The story isn't anything special by itself, but the developer injects plenty 
 of their typical charm into the writing, and even make most of the newly added characters to be 
 somehow tolerable. Shadow's quit being emo, and even Amy isn't annoying, which is somewhat terrifying, 
 but welcome none-the less. The only character they couldn't fix was Big, but they thankfully don't 
 give him much dialog. The best part about the writing, however, is how they FINALLY made Dr. Eggman 
 a villain again. Instead of helping Sonic for kicks, he does it for his own benefit, and shows 
 no intention of ever being "good" throughout the time you interact with him. One memorable line 
 is when he mentions how a town isn't the same after he's terrorized it twice, and another would 
 be him being disappointed in being unable to horribly maim the Marauders. Speaking of the Marauders, 
 they play the role of antagonist well, unlike past Sonic non-Eggman villains, and they provide 
 BioWare the chance to insert their typical Sci-Fi flavorings, which actually don't feel out of 
 the place in the least. It might seem odd run into aliens in a Sonic game, but BioWare fits everything 
 into the game well, and even throws in a few things for fans. One such involves a certain food 
 item that Sonic loved eating in the cartoons.
  
  Graphics: 9/10
  ---
  Make no mistake, this game is very pretty. Every background is hand drawn, heralding back to the 
 days of PSX RPGs, and all the character models are well-rendered. The animation in battle is also 
 solid, with each enemy and character having their own specific attack and defense animations.
 
  
  Controls: 8.5/10
  ---
  The game is completely stylus controlled, and they work very well for the most part. POW moves 
 are pretty easy to pull off, and it's easy to move Sonic around the map. The only problem comes 
 from chasing enemies that run away, or running away yourself. You have to tap characters to make 
 them jump over boxes, and the placement of these makes it hard to keep up sometimes.
  
  Fun Factor/Replayability: 9/10
  ---
  The game was a blast to play, and I've already started 
 on another play through. The battles are a blast due to the more frantic nature, due to POW moves 
 and POW move blocking (which is done with stylus prompts as well) , and the zones are fun to explore. 
 The game even provides you with a new game plus after you finish.
  
  Overall (not an average) : 9/10
  ---
  I'm really surprised how the game turned out. I expected 
 it to be at least decent, but never actually expected it to be AMAZING, even if it was coming from 
 BioWare. It just goes to show that anything can make a good RPG, but we really should've known 
 that once we saw Mario doing it. BioWare took a dash of Mario RPG, Chrono Trigger, and their own 
 games to make something truly enjoyable. Here's hoping there's a sequel.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Seanronnie22
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 4, 2008 12:33 pm PT
Review:  This game game has such a great potenial as iv'e played it for like 2 days now and already in love 
 with it.
  
  The Story was very well thought out I love the fact that you can effect what happends on it too 
 base off what you say. It holds much darkness within it and some surprising scenes. I may have 
 not have seen it all yet but I can tell you now this games plots and tiwst will always have you 
 gesseing whats next.
  
  The Gameplay Well where can I start... K got it well the game keeps you on active to do things needed 
 to do to reach places or fight. Meaning you will always be active in the game, you will need to 
 use stragity to get past your foes but hey what do think RPG's involve you doing.
  
  The Sound and Music is something you can't miss almost for every battle a fight song will be randomly 
 chosen exluding some boss fights. You feel adrandlen bulind up in you as your turn comes up. The 
 sounds are kinda goofy at times but they also have the feel needed (such as sonics good old spin 
 dash) to keep you going. The music and sounds on the maps are also entertaining altho some may 
 run into each other you will find your self laughing sometimes at what you hear.
  
  The Grahpics are beyond beautiful as you can see the atrist highlights on providing deatail to 
 the fullest point you can tell that Bio-ware was really trying to bring Sonic, his freinds, and 
 enemies, and world to life as you stare at there designs wonderful work my complents to the artist 
 and designers.
  
  But to wrap it up this is a game that desrves to continue its series as I could give sonic a thumbs 
 up with out twitching loll. But I won't lie as there may be glitches in some actions sometimes 
 but only if repeated in the aera many times (such as going through a the same loop 10 times. Don't 
 ask why) besides that I can give this game a 9.5 happy and not felt like it needs it but deserves 
 it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GeekyDad
Rating: 8
Date: Oct 3, 2008 11:04 am PT
Review:  Two quick items to address before I go into my spiel about Sonic Chronicles: 1.) I'm not a Sonic 
 fan. When I was younger, I would be briefly entertained watching someone else play the original 
 Sonic arcade game, but I never really cared for it too much myself. 2.) If you were expecting a 
 Sonic platformer, what were you thinking? It's a game that's been discussed at great length. It's 
 an RPG. It's probably best not to come into this game expecting anything else. End of rant.
  
  I'm not going to discuss details about the game's story  though I'm not oblivious to the fact 
 that story in an RPG is important. It's just I wouldn't know where to begin. However, I will try 
 to gauge it for you. It's actually a good plot, but since it's based on the Sonic universe, well, 
 it's geared a bit toward the younger crowd. That said, I enjoyed it quite a bit. There aren't any 
 great twists or turns, but the game offers a very solid progression with plenty of side things 
 to do.
  
  Sonic Chronicles is, for the most part, a turn-based RPG, but each melee round will require you 
 to engage in a variety of micro games. Most of these games are based on the Elite Beat Agents, 
 marker-tapping thing, but occasionally you'll have to chase down enemies who try to escape. The 
 micro games are different only in their patterns, but otherwise it's pretty much the same type 
 of thing each time. Micro games come into play when either one of your characters is executing 
 a POW (sorry, forgot what the acronym stands for, but they're basically spells) move, or when you're 
 defending against an enemy's POW move. You'll be doing a lot of these little micro games during 
 combat, but here's the thing: they grow on you. At first, I wasn't too impressed. The sound effects 
 that accompany the tapping are kind of weak, and some moves seem a bit difficult to get down properly. 
 But after about five / six hours of gameplay, I was hooked. Also, battles require a good deal of 
 strategy, even for lower-level encounters. Additionally, Bioware (the game's developer) had the 
 foresight to add enemy indicators on the field, and it's a small touch that makes all the difference 
 in the world. Sure, some enemies will close in too fast to escape, but for the most part, you battle 
 when you want to battle.
  
  The presentation is mostly great, with a few rough edges here and there. The cutscenes are gorgeous, 
 but they get lopped off rather than faded out. But the graphics are pure awesome. Sonic Chronicles 
 is definitely one of the best-looking games on DS. Like Ninja Gaiden: Dragon Sword, Sonic Chronicles 
 offers 3D character models over beautiful 2D environments, yet battles are fully three dimensional. 
 Characters animate wonderfully, no camera problems, but you do get occasional issues with collision 
 detection, though nothing that impairs the gamplay in any way. The music in Sonic is really good. 
 Most of the overworld music is MIDI-techno, but it works perfectly in the setting of each area 
 you journey through, and the mostly heavy metal music during battles is really cool  a staple 
 of most recent Sonic games. The only aural aspects of Sonic Chronicles that disappoint are the 
 sound effects during combat micro games. Sure, the knock-out sounds are great, and many other effects 
 in the game work well, but adding more visceral sound effects to the micro games would have, I 
 think, made playing them more satisfying.
  
  Sonic Chronicles also has some other quirks, such as requiring you to choose who will be in your 
 party every time you exit a base (the place you go to heal) . Some of the game's puzzles are puzzling 
 only because you can't see clearly what you need to see, rather than because the puzzles are brain 
 teasers. Additionally, there are issues with touch commands. I've accidentally glossed over text 
 in conversations or fouled up a micro game because my commands weren't read properly. I have no 
 problems with other DS games, so it's not my touch screen; this is actually one of my biggest complaints 
 about the game.
  
  Still, Bioware got a lot right with Sonic Chronicles: Great story and gameplay progression, entertaining 
 and mildly addictive battles, enemy indicators on the field, lots of sidequests, a great interface 
 (though it too has a few quirks) , and a lot of fun things to do when you're merely exploring the 
 overworld. Nope, it's not perfect, and yes, there are things I hope Bioware will address should 
 they make a sequel (which I now hope they do) . But coming from someone who loves RPGs but not necessarily 
 Sonic games, this one is a winner.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: ChrissieGirl
Rating: 8.5
Date: Oct 1, 2008 4:20 am PT
Review:  When people think of Sonic the Hedgehog, one of the first things that likely comes to mind is his 
 speed. Sonic is well known for fast-paced platforming, collecting rings, and beating on his evil 
 foe, Dr. Eggman. Needless to say, this game is drastically different from the speedy platforming 
 we know Sonic for. Sonic Chronicles is a spin-off RPG series produced by none other than Bioware, 
 which was enough to give the game plenty of hype, but does it deliver?
  
  For the most part, yes. Despite my original doubts about how Sonic would work in an RPG, Sonic 
 Chronicles is a great game. 
  
  Being an RPG, a lot of emphasis is going to be put on the story, and I can safely say the story 
 in Sonic Chronicles is far better than a lot of other recent Sonic games. It's epic and will likely 
 continuously make some want to know what happens next. The characters were very well-written; Bioware 
 have completely nailed their personalities. There is a bit of character development here and there, 
 some for more characters than others. While some characters will get a lot of focus in this game, 
 other characters will not.
  
  Being an RPG, you will need to speak to people, but it's not just heaping your way through tons 
 of text. A clever little feature enables you to choose various responses Sonic can give, not just 
 restricted to 'yes' and 'no'. You can choose to have Sonic be a really nice guy or be a bit of 
 a jerk, which can change the way some of the characters interact with you.
  
  There are eleven characters in this game to choose from, though you can only have four in your 
 party at any one time so you will need to choose carefully who you decide to have along with you. 
 In certain areas, you may need to have certain characters along with you due to their abilities 
 in exploration; for example, Tails can fly across gaps and Knuckles can climb walls. These abilities 
 may prove to be essential later in the game. 
  
  It really isn't very difficult to know where you're going next, as the top screen displays a map 
 of where you're going and a star will often appear on your destination. These stars will also appear 
 in some of the side-quests, to assist you in knowing where to go there. The entire game is controlled 
 via the touch screen and it works pretty well.
  
  Much like in other Sonic games you can collect Rings, which you can use to buy items. For the most 
 part, you can collect a good amount of items by battling or finding random chests containing items, 
 but this is handy if you're running low on HP or PP recovery items.
  
  You'll also find Chao eggs in the exploration areas, and they too serve a purpose, in that many 
 of them have various stats and can help make your characters stronger or weaker. For example, you 
 could choose to equip a Chao with an earth element, and that could either do more damage or less, 
 or you could use a Chao which increases HP or PP at the beginning of each round. They're not compulsory 
 to use, and you could probably beat the game without them, but they are helpful in a lot of cases.
 
  
  In terms of battles, it's all turn-based, but that isn't necessarily a bad thing. There are two 
 ways you can attack an enemy. A standard attack can be used in every round; depending on your character 
 you can attack a certain number of times per round. For example, Sonic and Shadow are the fastest 
 characters thus can attack up to three times per round, while slower characters such as Big can 
 only attack once. 
  
  You can also use POW moves, and the system works really well. POW moves are slightly more powerful 
 moves which can enable you to deal more damage to a foe, distract your foe or assist your friends. 
 There are three types of characters; power, shifter and supporter. Power characters are more offensive 
 in their attacks, supporters are more likely to distract or assist, and shifters can be a healthy 
 mixture of both. 
  
  POW moves are pulled off using an Elite Beat Agents style of fighting, which actually works quite 
 well as it enables you to be more involved with the fight. If you pull off the pattern correctly, 
 your POW move should successfully be able to make the best impact possible. Getting the patterns 
 right may also enable you to dodge a strong enemy attack.
  
  Even fleeing has become more interactive; you must tap on the characters to get them to jump over 
 obstacles in their paths. Hitting too many obstacles will mean the enemy will likely catch up to 
 you. This is also used in catching up to enemies that try to flee from you.
  
  Battling for the most part is fun for a while, but eventually it does start to lose it's appeal 
 and become quite repetitive and dull. What's more, later on in the game I have encountered a few 
 occasions of lag, where the characters take a long time to attack after being attacked. However, 
 these occurances are rare so shouldn't effect the gameplay too much.
  
  The graphics are pretty good and each of the areas are designed really nicely. The character models 
 are okay, not the best that's been done but not at all bad.
  
  The music is one of the biggest gripes I have with this game; while the opening and most of the 
 the battle music sound pretty cool and work really well, a lot of the exploration areas have pretty 
 poor music, which just sounds odd and annoying. However, the sound can be made up for by the lack 
 of voice-acting in this game, barring occasions where they get hit in battle, which are easily 
 ignorable. 
  
  Overall, I can safely say that, while I had my doubts originally, Bioware has managed to give us 
 a great Sonic game. It's not perfect; the poor music in the exploration areas, the rare lag and 
 the repetitive battles pretty much are the negative points to this game. But other than those, 
 this game is a lot of fun and really does do a good job of bringing Sonic to the RPG genre without 
 changing a lot about who he is; he's still about speed. If you're not an RPG person, this game 
 won't change your mind but otherwise I do say this is a game worth adding to your DS collection. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bobxp
Rating: 7
Date: Sep 30, 2008 3:23 pm PT
Review:  I first thought my DS or cart was bugged up when I heard several tracks from this game - some have 
 long sections of silence, others (Central City anyone?) just sound like instruments are missing. 
 But after talking to a few friends, it seems it was either really meant to sound like this, or 
 else the beta testing team didn't catch something really obvious. That said, though, the battle 
 music is some of the best - a stark contrast from the non-battle tracks - clearly inspired by Rush 
 Adventure.
  
  Music aside, gameplay is what counts, and gameplay is brilliant. There are three main modes you 
 could be in. The first is walking around on the map, similar to Sonic Battle, but with actions 
 for moving around, breaking blocks, flying or other things which usually require certain characters. 
 There are also some puzzles to do on the map screen. Several times I've seen some quite counter-intuitive 
 things (such as not being able to jump over tiny gaps or ledges, or warps which you can only enter 
 from one side) .
  
  The second is textual cutscenes. When I saw the first speech bubble in the game I thought "FINALLY! 
 A professional RPG with a decent speech system!" and I haven't turned back on that statement - 
 it's essentially the same concept as that used by one of my favorite Indie games, Out of Order, 
 and quite frankly I haven't seen this style used anywhere else. The main point is, you directly 
 select your response, rather than selecting options (usually just "yes"/"no") which have nothing 
 to do with it or even worse, playing a mute.
  
  The third, of course, is battles. I'm a fan of turn-based battles so this game is brilliant in 
 that respect. There's a pretty large variety in what you can do and what kinds of enemies you face, 
 with power attacks (and evasion) being controlled by your actions on the touch screen. And, as 
 I've already mentioned, the battle music is just plain awesome.
  
  However, the controls are what let the gameplay down severely. Everything is done on the touch 
 screen, and the only buttons that do anything at all are L/R (which do the same) and Start. Menus, 
 for example, could sometimes be a lot easier if the d-pad would even move the cursor. Speech bubbles 
 can be skipped or confirmed with L and R, but to select your response, you have to use the touchscreen 
 rather than up or down. And most annoyingly, the touchscreen battling (the tapping and dragging 
 you do) just doesn't work, as it's too constrained. They really could have just recycled the (very 
 awesome) Waterbike trick system from Rush Adventure for this, but no dice. I was pleasantly surprised 
 though to find a Chao which gives you automatically perfect power attacks, skipping this entirely 
 for one character.
  
  There's one more pet peeve I have about this game, and that's the animation timing. Not the graphics 
 - the graphics are awesome. Not the animation itself - that's also pretty awesome and very detailed. 
 But the /timing/ of the animation is just too linear and, well, "sticky" - especially to someone 
 who notices these things, like myself. The main things this affects are Sonic's automated movement 
 actions on the map and the camera movement in battle. They're just too slow and clunky for a Sonic 
 game.
  
  All in all though, this game is worth the money. It's got the gameplay which is what counts, and 
 it's got some very nice graphics, just some disappointing music and (lack of) controls. From my 
 experience so far, it's also demonstrated a well thought out plot. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ahappyfool
Rating: 8.5
Date: Sep 30, 2008 12:18 pm PT
Review:  When I think Sonic the Hedgehog, instantly thousands of spinning gold rings fill my head. "collect 
 the rings!!". Then I think of extremely high speed chases and running, and hyperloops, spilling 
 rings from contact etc etc.
  
  But I like a good lil RPG. And I like this game.
  
  Sonic as an RPG is many things. Its a good intro to those who have little to no experience with 
 handheld RPGs. It adorable. Its challenging. But I like the way it uses the touch screen controls 
 everywhere. You move your character with your stylus. You characters special battle moves are controlled 
 by challenging Elite Beat Agent style combos. The term "button mashing" just doesn't apply here. 
 :) Small enhancements and equipment to help you out are everywhere.
  
  There are lil side missions along the way, and you get to meet (or reacquaint with) many fav characters 
 of the Sonic world - both good and bad. 
  
  And unlike some RPGs, where you are sometimes limping your heavily wounded characters out of a 
 dungeon or to a world map in a hope to save your game, you can save *anywhere* in Sonic Chronicles. 
 
  
  Older kids will enjoy this game. Sonic fans will enjoy this game. Other than some of the battles 
 at certain levels of your character development, its not frustrating or extremely challenging.
 
  
  But I like it.. maybe you will too.
  It's worth the purchase. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
