-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Sonic Rush Adventure
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/ds/action/sonicrushadventure/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 Great level designs.
 Fun, hip-hop-infused soundtrack.
 Dynamic blending of 2D gameplay and 3D graphics.
 Sea-travel levels break up the action.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 Story sequences feel disposable.
 Playing the same levels repeatedly eventually gets tiresome.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Sep 19, 2007
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 8
Critic Score: 8.0, 37 Review (s)
User Score: 8.5, 625 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Sega
Developer: Dimps Corporation
Genre: 2D Platformer
Date: Sep 18, 2007
ESRB: Everyone

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Sega and Sonic Team would like to remind you that Sonic the Hedgehog can still be a whole lot of 
 high-speed fun. 

  2005's Sonic Rush for the DS was a 2D side-scroller that picked up where the already excellent 
 Sonic Advance series left off, injecting a little polygonal flair into the graphics and the gameplay, 
 making smart use of the DS hardware, and generally serving as a bracing reminder of what made Sonic 
 the Hedgehog so great in the first place. At its core, Sonic Rush Adventure offers a very similar 
 experience, filled with an incredible sense of speed, serpentine levels, a variety of gadgets, 
 contraptions, geegaws, and whirligigs for you to fling yourself off of, and rings, rings, rings. 
 What Adventure adds is more structure outside the action, as well as some brief moments of simple 
 3D action. Some of these additions arguably don't add a lot to what made Sonic Rush so great, but 
 they don't take away from it, either.  

           Hey Sonic, what's the rush!?!      

  Sonic Rush Adventure kicks off with Sonic and Tales being sucked through some kind of dimensional 
 portal and ending up on a small island inhabited by a young raccoon named Marine. It would seem 
 that Marine is the type of character that's  supposed  to be the comic relief. In practice, she 
 ends up grating on the nerves with her coy obliviousness, making you want to skip right past the 
 game's dialogue sequences. Luckily, you won't miss much if you do. As Sonic, Tails, and the increasingly 
 intolerable Marine try to figure out a way to get Sonic and Tails back to their dimension, you 
 eventually hook up with Blaze the Cat, the other playable character from the original Sonic Rush, 
 and go after one Captain Whisker, a mildly inept robot pirate in possession of an ancient artifact 
 that Blaze is trying to recover.  

  Your quest will take you to a series of nearby islands. You'll see thick jungles full of giant, 
 springy mushrooms, a brassy, steam-powered island dense with pipes and clockwork, an underwater 
 cavern encrusted with glowing gems, and more. These are some great-looking backgrounds that are 
 rich with detail, and if running through the levels at incredible speeds weren't so much fun, you'd 
 probably want to stop and drink in the atmosphere. There's also some terrific background music 
 that, like the original Sonic Rush, has a sample-heavy, hip-hop-inspired sound, though this time 
 with a little bit of island flavor. The 2D rollercoaster ride offered by much of the game is broken 
 up by the occasional 3D flourishes. Though the action plays from a side-scrolling perspective, 
 the characters and other key elements are actually polygonal, making their transitions into 3D 
 action surprisingly smooth. The levels are consistently really exciting, with alternate routes 
 to explore and plenty of great set pieces. They're the kinds of levels that you'll want to play 
 through more than once -- something that the developer banked on.  

  Though you'll initially play through the first few levels as just Sonic, you'll eventually be able 
 to choose between him and Blaze. They handle almost identically, though you'll occasionally stumble 
 onto routes that Blaze's fiery disposition enables her to take. In addition to the run, jump, and 
 spin abilities that are Sonic standards, you can perform a few different dash maneuvers, allowing 
 you to plow through enemies and make your way to areas that an unassisted jump won't reach. These 
 dashes drain a meter that you can refill by doing tricks, which you can do simply by hammering 
 on the B button whenever you've been launched into the air, or when you find yourself grinding 
 a lengthy piece of rail. The trick here is that the B button also serves as the jump button, so 
 knowing when to ease up on the tricks is key to maintaining your momentum and not plummeting to 
 your death. The whole dash and trick mechanics were a big part of what made the gameplay in Sonic 
 Rush feel fresh, and they continue to work well here.  

  There are seven major islands in Sonic Rush Adventure, each of which has two stages, which can 
 take from about one to four minutes to blast through, followed by a boss fight, about which the 
 most remarkable thing you can say is that they bring a lot of polygonal spectacle to the 2D gameplay. 
 While 14 quick levels and seven boss fights might not sound like much, there's more to Sonic Rush 
 Adventure than that. In order to even get off the island that Sonic and Tails first crashed on, 
 you'll have to build yourself some seafaring transportation. Tails can help you out with this, 
 though he'll need you to collect the construction material. You earn material every time you finish 
 a level, though how much you'll earn will depend on how fast you were, how many tricks you did, 
 and how many rings you collected. Regardless of how well you do on a level your first time through, 
 you're all but guaranteed to revisit it, as you need not only a number of materials to build your 
 transportation, but different types, which can be found only on specific islands. Playing through 
 the same levels repeatedly could have been a drag, but they're so consistently well made that it 
 takes a number of plays before a level starts to get wearying.  

  The first vehicle you'll build is essentially a Jet Ski. Before you can go anywhere, you'll have 
 to actually draw your course using the stylus. With your course plotted, you'll take control of 
 the Jet Ski, which you can move horizontally with the stylus and is seen from a behind-the-back 
 perspective. Though your course is fixed, there are still obstacles and enemies that you have to 
 dodge and rings to collect. You can tap on the screen to boost, and there are ramps that you have 
 to perform tricks off of by making a specific gesture with the stylus. Eventually you'll find that 
 the aqua blast doesn't have enough range, at which point you'll have to build your next vessel. 
 There are four different vehicles in total, each with its own control schemes and its own unique 
 abilities that make it best suited for specific routes. The hovercraft is most similar to the Jet 
 Ski, though with a heavier focus on offensive abilities. In the case of the barge and the submarine, 
 you don't actually control the ship at all, instead worrying exclusively about firing weapons at 
 incoming enemies. These traveling sequences are decent little interludes between the regular levels, 
 though they're never any better than the initial Jet Ski.  

           The Jet Ski can be a distraction for a while.      

  It'll probably take you between 
 four and six hours to defeat Captain Whisker, but you'll have to put in a whole lot more time if 
 you want to see the game's true ending, which requires you to collect Sol and Chaos emeralds. You'll 
 get Sol emeralds by taking on a series of missions that once again pits you against the game's 
 bosses, while you'll have to search the seven seas for a rival speedster named Johnny in order 
 to recover the Chaos emeralds. There are also a huge number of side missions you can take on at 
 any time during the game, the majority of which challenge you to perform specific tasks on levels 
 you've previously visited. Additionally, there are a number of multiplayer options, including local 
 game sharing and online play. The multiplayer has players competing to finish a level faster or 
 collect more rings, and the online play is bolstered by a competitive leaderboard.  

  The extra bells and whistles that Sonic Rush Adventure add to the formula might not equate to much 
 of an overall improvement, and the game might not have as much impact as its predecessor, but this 
 is still a mighty-fine platformer that is guaranteed to satisfy Sonic fans.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (70 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: leaf-ninja
Rating: 9.5
Date: Apr 19, 2009 5:02 pm PT
Review:  sonic rush adventure is awsome its not just one of the best sonic games its one of the best ds 
 games and its not all just 2d like people say the boat adventures are 3d most of the boss battles 
 are 3d and you can also walk around and talk to people in 3d there are also 5 hidden islands witch 
 are fun to find anid play in also a nother great feture is wireless ds single card download play 
 where you get heaps of new levels that you can play on in two player also the split screen action 
 is one of the coolest fetures and is super easy to use half way through the game you get blaze 
 the cat as one of your main characters that you can use in all your missions from then on you can 
 also collect chaos and sol emeralds aswel as medals for doing missions
  sonic rush adventure is a great game for sonic and non sonic fans 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Rinnegan_Fan3
Rating: 7.5
Date: Mar 18, 2009 5:25 pm PT
Review:  This is an improvement since Sonic Rush, the stages are more difficult, the soundtrack is better, 
 and the time value has been dramatically increased. Still you only have 2 characters to play as 
 (Sonic and Blaze) , but it is alot more fun in this game. You get to build 4 vessels throughout 
 the adventure and use them in different terrains and depths to navigate through the waters in search 
 of islands that you can get parts necessary to upgrade your vessels or build a new one. Also, Sonic 
 and Blaze's story can now be achieved together, you choose which character you want to do the stage 
 before beginning it instead of doing every stage twice. There are a bunch of unlockables and features 
 in this game that Sonic Advance 3 didn't have, yet this game isn't better. Once feature is a newly 
 featured mission mode, 100 missions for you to do, you will get the Sol Emeralds through mission 
 mode. You can of course listen to music, but now there is the feature to replay the scenes of the 
 story. There are many hidden islands that you'll find, some by accident and others just happen 
 to be discovered while moving along your course. It could have had a larger roster, sure there 
 is alot to do but I'd rather have alot of characters in a good game like this or a different style 
 of playing like Sonic Advance 3's instead of doing everything with 2 characters. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: JebranRush
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 18, 2009 2:46 pm PT
Review:  The good: Fast and flashy action, great graphics, trick system is a lot of fun, mission mode creates 
 a lot more replayability, online and multiplayer mode's are a nice addition, sea levels are well 
 designed and a lot of fun, some great music, good story, great 3D cut-scenes
  
  The bad: Some bad music, not enough 3D cut-scenes, odd characters
  
  A few years ago, in 2005, 
 Sonic Rush came into existence. Developed by Dimps, it proved that Sonic was faster than ever and 
 had some new tricks up his sleeve. Two years later, Sega and Dimps release Sonic Rush Adventure. 
 Of course, it was the "Adventure" part that most fans and gamers were hesitant about. Their fears 
 were proven empty and the adventure portion provides good pacing and a nice amount of 3D fun. 
 
  
  The presentation of the game is very well done. It starts you off watching a high quality cut-scene 
 where Sonic and Tails, in a plane, are getting swept away by a large storm over the sea. They wind 
 up waking up on a beach where a character named Marine shows up and helps them (sort of) . A rather 
 different character, Marine speaks with an Australian style dialect, which is also rather stereotypical. 
 She's also the most annoying character in the game. Obviously, her intended role was for comedy 
 relief but unfortunately, it clearly didn't work as she turns out to be mostly a nuisance. Dialogue 
 and character speech is handled through text and 2D art animations. It's not anything really special, 
 but it gets the job done and progresses the story nicely. Occasionally, when something exciting 
 is happening in the story, instead of the text boxes, stylish 3D cut-scenes are used and are very 
 well done. Although there isn't any voice acting during these parts, text serves well enough. Unfortunately, 
 there are very few of these cut-scenes. Overall, the presentation is very stylish and well made 
 by Dimps and Sega. 
  
  The meat of the game is in the action stages. The game play here is high octane speed with some 
 platforming mixed in. Although the platforming isn't quite prominent until the later levels, the 
 Sonic Rush series, as can be derived from the name, focuses more on speed. This is not a bad thing, 
 however. It's a lot more stylish this way and if your platforming needs aren't satisfied, play 
 the missions! The second part of the game is the sea travel stages. These are surprisingly well 
 done and a lot of fun to play. The first sea vehicle you get is the water bike. This is built for 
 speed but it can't travel very far. You also later get a ship, hovercraft, and submarine. Each 
 of these play rather differently. These sea travel levels are controlled by the stylus. For example, 
 the water bike must be maneuvered by the stylus. The ship and submarine move for you while you 
 shoot enemies and coins and the hovercraft is similar to the water bike, except you can shoot. 
 These levels really nicely pace the game so that you don't get tired of the actions stages. Plus, 
 by creating these sea travel levels, you can travel to different islands to progress the story. 
 Since there is a fair sized map, there are also several hidden islands which you can find. This 
 increases the replayability of the game overall. Along the story, you face different bosses. These 
 boss battles are all epic and completely 3D. They are very well done and the difficulty for them 
 feels just right. The game overall, though, has a great learning curve that starts off as it should: 
 with a tutorial. As you progress, the levels increase in difficulty and so do the bosses. 
  
  There are additional modes that you should want in a Sonic game. These modes include time trail 
 mode, mission mode, online racing and battling, as well as local wireless multiplayer. These modes 
 can be a lot of fun and they're all done very well. The time trail mode has it's own online leader 
 boards so you can compare yourself to players all around the world. Online mode has a nice ranking 
 and points system as well. Local wireless is both single card and multi-card play so even if your 
 friend doesn't have a copy of the game, you can still enjoy the full multiplayer experience. There 
 are also 100 extra missions you can do to unlock many new things that not only increase the replayability, 
 but can further expand on the story. These missions can range from passing through flags in the 
 proper order on a snowboard, collecting 100 rings in the time limit, or doing a certain amount 
 of tricks in the time limit. These missions can unlock several extras such as music in sound test 
 or give you medals.
  
  The graphics are also very well done. The 3D models look clean and polished and the environments 
 blend in with everything without a hitch in the frame rate. Everything goes together smoothly and 
 it just feels right. The backgrounds consist in creating a nice environmental theme for each level 
 and each level contains different hazards that suit them rather nicely. The audio is great too. 
 Although there are some songs you can question in their quality, others are great and the game 
 has a great original soundtrack. Some songs that stand out are the Blizzard Peaks songs and the 
 interesting boss battle theme. Sound effects are also exceptional. Voice acting for both Sonic 
 and Blaze is well done and their sound effects for running and jumping are reminiscent of their 
 Sega Genesis predecessors. 
  
  Overall, Sonic Rush Adventure proves to be a reminder as to how great Sonic can be and how fast 
 he can go. Action stages are well done in providing a great sensation of speed while the sea travel 
 stages provide good pacing to the game and are a lot of fun to play. The graphics and sounds are 
 all great and make proper use of the DS's capabilities. Multiplayer and time trail modes also make 
 full use of the DS's capabilities with leader boards and rankings. In the end, Sonic Rush Adventure 
 is one of the best platformers for the DS and a fine game overall. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sonic5678
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jan 5, 2009 5:08 pm PT
Review:  This is more of a comparison of 2D and 3D Sonic games at the moment, but i would like to say that 
 this game is solid, and although i think that it could have done without the "pirates on the seven 
 seas" theme and the materials for Tails, it's a very solid game, and its level design quirks and 
 more ambitious platforming set-pieces are things that the 3D games should take into account, but 
 don't.
  
  Why?
  
  First, let's take a look at the boost system. Conceptually sound, for both 3D and 2D. However, 
 in Unleashed, the meter is filled by rings, while in the Rush games, you use tricks and defeat 
 enemies to fill it. I think that SR/A's boost is much more balanced and has more depth than Unleashed's. 
 It also drains much quicker, so you constantly have to think about it as it could run out at any 
 time, unlike Unleashed's boost bar which can sometimes leave you holding X for long periods of 
 time and not doing much else. There are more rings than there are enemies in both games and in 
 Unleashed the boost bar seldom runs out. SR/A's boost has far, far more depth to it too- use tricks 
 and defeat enemies to build the gauge, which you can either use now- or- build up the gauge so 
 that it fills 3 times, at which point it maxes out and gives you infinite boost for so long as 
 you can keep a trick/action chain going- otherwise it halves instantly. This works far better than 
 the boost system in Unleashed, so for the next 3D game they should just use Rush's boost system 
 IMO.
  
  Another thing that this game excels at is the level design. Put simply, what the 3D games lack 
 is verticality. You fall off, you're dead. Here however, it's: you fall off, you land on slower 
 route. You fall off again, you land on even slower route. The bottomless pit issue is 90% absent 
 in Dimps' 2D Sonics and this is the point i am trying to make here- all of these good things that 
 I mentioned above -ARE- perfectly possible and executable in 3D. You can't just say that Sonic 
 gameplay- i. e. platforming with a really fast-moving character- is impossible in 3D. It's just 
 that those games have been met with bad management, were rushed, sometimes unfinished, had bad 
 levels that relied too heavily on bottomless pits for difficulty (but slightly less so in Unleashed, 
 i'll give it that- Spagonia anyone?) or had huge tangents in the gameplay  
 anyone?) that they can't be recommended to most. A level with: no bottomless pits, a high/mid/low 
 path structure, and some really ambitious and complex jumping/landing/grinding segments is perfectly 
 possible in 3D. Want proof? Look up Tokyo Megaplex (and pretty much any other level) from SSX Tricky. 
 The high path is faster than the middle path, which in turn is faster than the low path, and best 
 of all you can't fall off the stage. Moreover, it's all designed so perfectly so that, as the game 
 itself will tell you, "getting the top paths will be hard; staying there will be even harder." 
 
  
  Why can't we have a 3D Sonic game like that?
  
  (Coincidentally, SSX Tricky's trick/boost system is very close to SRA's, so if Sega wanna fix Sonic, 
 i suggest they start their search there.)
  
  The game's credits say "Developed by Sonic Team in co-operation with Dimps". Dimps and Sonic Team 
 should collaborate again, as it's the most promising thing for the franchise that they could do. 
 A game with Rush's deep boost and pitless levels, Unleashed's mix of 2D and 3D, no gameplay other 
 than the speedy platforming, no gimmicks, no hubs, no humans other than Eggman, no new characters, 
 no earth-style cities; just total fantasy settings (which Heroes did well but Sega strangely never 
 went back to) and levels that seem to go on forever in all directions, not just forward- are all 
 things that:
  A: Are possible in 3D, and:
  B: Sega need to take into account for their next big post-black-knight-project, which will likely 
 be the big "Sonic 20th Anniversary" game. All the right ideas for Sonic are floating around somewhere 
 within the recent Sonic games, both on console and on handheld, and if, IF- Sega can keep the ones 
 that work and axe the ones that don't, then, Sonic would be "back". 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Ikarus14
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 3, 2009 2:16 pm PT
Review:  After the awesome Sonic Rush came out on the Nintendo DS back in 2005 you have to wonder why Sonic 
 Team haven't concentrated more on the classic Sonic formula rather than the horrible spin-off that 
 was Shadow the Hedgehog. We no longer had little hedgehogs packing heat or cursing and just plain 
 simple running across wildly coloured levels while bashing robots that released a little animal 
 like we all remember from the Sega Mega drive. Even after the equally bad Sonic the Hedgehog on 
 the PS3 and Xbox 360 we were once again apologised with a sequel to an already awesome game.
  It pretty much takes place after the events of the first Sonic Rush, only Sonic and Tails have 
 crash landed their plane on some Australian inspired island and later discover that they are now 
 in Blaze's world, where they do battle against a very quirky robo-pirate version of Dr. Eggman.
 
  The gameplay is more or less the same as the previous installment where you see yourself blasting 
 at the speed of sound at will through enemies and leaping over bottomless pits. However, Sonic 
 Team took the liberty of adding in a new quirk that's pratically inspired by the wind waker. You 
 travel to your next lever by sea by drawing your destination on a map using the touch screen and 
 then speed across the ocean on a waterbike, ship, hovercraft or even a submarine. But in order 
 to build the other vehicles (or even improve them) you use yor rings along with pieces of scrap 
 material that you find in the levels.
  The coolest part of the ocean travelling is that you collect the chaos emeralds by racing against 
 a shark robot named Johnny.
  The game is simply a lot of fun to play and it definatly will dilight Sonic fans of all sorts and 
 especially those who where dissapointed by the latest 3D games. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Apoklitty
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 15, 2008 2:51 pm PT
Review:  amazing amazing amazing amazing amazing amazing amazing amazing amazing amazing amazing amazing 
 amazing amazing 
  amazing amazing amazing amazing amazing amazing amazing amazing amazing amazing amazing amazing 
 amazing amazing amazing amazing amazing amazing amazing amazing amazing amazing amazing amazing 
 amazing amazing amazing amazing amazing amazing amazing amazing amazing amazing amazing amazing 
 amazing amazing amazing amazing amazing amazing amazing amazing amazing amazing amazing amazing 
 amazing amazing amazing amazing amazing amazing amazing amazing amazing amazing amazing amazing 
 amazing amazing amazing amazing amazing amazing amazing amazing amazing amazing amazing amazing 
 amazing amazing amazing amazing amazing amazing amazing amazing amazing amazing amazing amazing 
 amazing amazing amazing amazing amazing amazing amazing amazing amazing amazing amazing amazing 
 amazing amazing amazing amazing amazing amazing amazing amazing amazing amazing amazing amazing 
 amazing amazing amazing amazing amazing amazing amazing amazing amazing amazing amazing amazing 
 amazing amazing amazing amazing amazing amazing amazing amazing amazing amazing amazing amazing 
 amazing amazing amazing amazing amazing amazing amazing amazing 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bksonic123
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 4, 2008 1:47 pm PT
Review:  The good: Fast, action-packed gameplay. Fanstastic level designs. Less chance of deaths than it's 
 predecessor, Sonic Rush. Sharp Control. Brings plenty of good memories
  of Sonic's Past.
  
  The bad: Nothing bad, apart from a few annoying characters.
  
  When I got Sonic Rush a 
 month after it's release after pre-ordering it a month in advance (I can't believe Amazon did that!) 
 I wasn't surprised on how spectacular it was. I played it every day and in no time, I completed 
 it (extra zone is so easy, especially for a FINAL final battle. Nice music, though.) After that 
 I thought if Dimps were to make a sequal, it would not live up to the expectations of it's prequal...
 
  ... and then came Sonic Rush Adventure...
  
  Yes, this game, in my opinion is an improvement over Sonic Rush. there's sea exploration, collectable 
 materials, medals to earn. very god boss fights (there's no character occupying the bottom screen, 
 unlike Sonic Rush) and lovely graphics to top it all off.
  
  I would recommend this game to anyone who likes Sonic, even the slightest, or just someone who 
 likes platforming games. The only reason for a Sonic Fan not to own this game is if they don't 
 have a Nintendo DS. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Jamez634
Rating: 8
Date: Aug 12, 2008 1:25 am PT
Review:  Sonic Rush is a Sonic game made for the DS that reminds you Sonic is a lot of fun, not all this 
 hard to control 3D junk. Sonic Rush was my first DS game (and my first game I reviewed) and it 
 was incredibly short and there wasn't much to do. Now Sega have released Sonic Rush Adventure and 
 it is a much better game!
  The story is quite improved but still short. In last Sonic Rush, Eggman had teamed up with Eggman 
 Nega to obviously get the chaos emeralds. In this game, we see a much more funny and NEW story 
 we've never seen in a Sonic game. Sonic and Tails are flying in a plane when they suddenly are 
 sucked into some sort of new world by a tornado. They wash up on a beach when a girl called Marine 
 find them. She tells them their world is getting destroyed by a pirate called Captain Whiskers 
 and so their adventure begins in the hunt for Captain Whiskers and a way to get back home. Of cause, 
 no Sonic Rush game would be complete without Blaze the Cat! In the last Sonic Rush, Blaze the Cat 
 got stuck in Sonic's world but now it's the other way round!
  The thing that makes this a great Sonic game is that the levels are 2D. Sonic defanitly looks better 
 2D than 3D! But now in Sonic Rush there are some parts 3D. If you've played Zleda: Phantom Hourglass 
 or Crash of the Titans then you'll know what I mean by you get to draw a path with your stylus 
 in the ocean, and sail your boat to different islands in full 3D! Sonic has a speed boat, a submarine 
 and more! You use your stylus to control your boat and it feels fantastic! Every island is a different 
 level and it rules! Boss fights are quite the same as the last game and I would have liked to see 
 that improved though.
  Plus, in the last Sonic Rush game there wasn't a lot to do. Now, there are missions Marine gives 
 you that are quite fun to complete. You can also customize the island you are stuck on. And if 
 you've got Wi-fi get this game because the last one didn't!
  I don't know why Gamespot rated the first one more that this because this is obviously a much better 
 game. 
  If you've got the old one, trade it for this, believe me, it's worth it!
  Overall, Sonic Rush Adventure is one of the best Sonic games yet. If you're not a Sonic fan it's 
 not really worth it. And if I haven't given you enough information about it here (I think I've 
 just explained the improvements!) then read my review for Sonic Rush. 
  
  STORY ---------------8
  GAMEPLAY ---------9
  GRAPHICS ---------7
  SOUND -------------7
  MULTIPLAYER ----8
 
  OVERALL -----------8
  
  Check out my blog for other reviews on other great (and not so great!) DS games! This is the 24th 
 DS game I've reviewed! I know a great DS game when I see one so I'm your man for DS reviews! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DramaticMeta
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jul 29, 2008 11:46 pm PT
Review:  This game is great, easy and ewnjoying. It has both 2d graphics and 3d ones! It has great music and 
 a good storyline. Sonic Rush Adventure is the countinue from Sonic Rush, with great updates and much 
 more interest. Well, I will agree with gamespot that it has too annoying characters, but better than 
 Sonic Rush's! Now, analyzed explanation! Abou the Graphic's: They are good enough for 2d. And what is 
 special in this game is that it has 3d in the bosses. But, couldn't the manfactuer's make 3d in the 
 acts? The music: is the best thing in this game, as it is impressivde. It has hard to make music that 
 matches exactly in the game! About the storyline: It is interesting, not just like Sonic Rush's boring 
 one! And at last the difficulty: It is quite easy, it should be a bit more harder. Tp sum up:8.5 for 
 this game. Great, Instant classic with great multiplayer! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Phoenix534
Rating: 8
Date: Jul 15, 2008 7:52 pm PT
Review:  Sonic Rush Adventure is a great game. It is easily one of the best Sonic games in years. 
  
  Graphics:8.... This game has pretty good graphics for a DS title. The characters move smoothly, 
 the environment is artistic and detailed, and the game just looks great for a handheld.
  
  Gameplay:9.... Great, easy to learn controls make Sonic Rush Adventure a fun portable game
  
 
  Single-Player:7.... The single player in this game is short but sweet. It wont take you but a 
 few hours to finish the story mode, and time trial get boring fast. The only part that doesn't 
 get boring is the boat combat. I love blowing stuff up in a submarine
  
  Multi-Player: 8.... It's always fun to get with friends and see whose fastest at the different 
 levels in a 2D Sonic game. The multiplayer in Sonic Rush Adventure never really gets old.
  
  Overall:8.... Despite a few minor flaws, Sonic Rush Adventure is a great DS game and anyone 
 looking for a good handheld game must check this out. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: UnknownHedgehog
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jul 8, 2008 12:49 pm PT
Review:  Sonic Rush Adventure is the direct sequel to Sonic Rush.
  The story takes place 2 years after the events in Sonic Rush. Sonic and Tails are caught up in 
 a time warp during a storm, teleporting them to Blaze's dimension. They then end up stranded on 
 Southern Island, a small tropical island inhabitated by a gang of koalas. With the help of a new 
 unplayable but hilarious female character, Marine the Raccoon, Sonic, Blaze and Tails explore new 
 islands, battle Captain Whisker's robotic hencemen, collect treasures and try to get Sonic and 
 Tails back home.
  Gameplay in the main stages is a lot similar to all of the previous Sonic 2D installments, but 
 is still exciting with the Tension Feature (first introduced in Sonic Rush) . Before playing on 
 a new island, Sonic will have to plot his route on a sea chart using your stylus (similar to gameplay 
 in The Legend of Zelda: The Phantom Hourglass) and then use one of four accessable vehicles to 
 go there: the Wave Cyclone (a 3D waterbike racing game) , the Ocean Tornado (a rail gun shooting 
 game on a sailboat) , the Aqua Blast (a 3D shoot-em-up hovercraft racing game) and the Deep Typhoon 
 (an underwater rhythm game similar to Osu! Tatakae! Ouendan) . Each ship has its unique stats and 
 abilities (e. g. some can access certain terrains, some can go further than others) . When travelling 
 from island to island, the game automatically generates random obstacles, making the game ideal 
 for replayability.
  After clearing a stage, you will be given a specific type of "Material" depending on which stage 
 you clear. The number of Materials you earn depends on the grade you get after clearing the stage. 
 Materials are often required to build new ships and equipment in order to progress within the story.
 
  The game also features new mission-based gameplay. You can unlock new missions by either talking 
 to the koalas on Southern Island or discovering and clearing 1-act hidden islands. After you've 
 unlocked them, you can talk to Marine and choose which mission you'd like to play. After clearing 
 the mission, you will be given a reward (e. g. a new decoration, a new song for Sound Test, a Sol 
 Emerald)
  The boss battles now take full advantage of both screens (e. g. one part of the boss shows on top, 
 the other shows on the bottom) , but still minimal touch-screen gameplay is involved.
  As usual, you need to collect all the Chaos Emeralds as well as the Sol Emeralds to unlock the 
 final boss battle. Sonic gets to Chaos Emeralds in seven waterbike races with Johnny, a humanoid 
 torpedo and the mid-boss of the game. He usually hides in specific locations offshore. Blaze receives 
 her Sol Emeralds by clearing specific missions (mainly harder versions of boss battles) .
  Sonic Rush Adventure is the first Sonic game to have full online multiplayer gameplay, so other 
 skilled players can race other or have Ring Battles online AND offline. In Time Attack, you can 
 view other people's records online via Nintendo Wi-Fi Connection or even upload your own. Plus, 
 players can do a 5-lap race on a hidden island (similar to Competition Mode in Sonic the Hedgehog 
 3) .
  The game has a total of 52 original funky music tracks composed by Teruhiko Nakagawa. Most of the 
 music was not only inspired by funk and hip hop, but the game also includes orchestral music.
 
  Overall, Sonic Rush Adventure is a completely original new adventure in the Sonic series, considering 
 the new gameplay with the four vehicles along with new stages, each with their unique designs. 
 Plus, the game takes full advantage of the Nintendo DS's capabilities making Sonic Rush Adventure 
 one of the ultimate games for that console (despite constant button-mashing) . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SonicPlumber964
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jun 27, 2008 11:11 am PT
Review:  Once upon a time SEGA had an idea for the first Sonic game to be released on the DS called, you 
 gussed it, Sonic DS. But later the idea was scrapped and SEGA came up with a sort of Sonic Advance 
 for the DS and called it Sonic Rush. Well it was pretty much a smash hit among Sonic fans alike 
 and so SEGA had an idea...
  
  So once upon a not-so-long-ago SEGA thought they would make a sequel. Sonic Rush Adventure starts 
 off when Sonic and Tails are flying through a fierce tropical storm when they are whirled into 
 a cyclone and soon find themselves washed ashore a mysterious beach where they meet Marine, a raccoon 
 with seaworthy dreams. Sonic and Tails, hoping to get home, collect "material" to make different 
 ships hoping to guide them home. The gameplay is thankfully the same as the previous installment 
 along with the ability to drive every single ship. Although I was a little disapointed to see you 
 could only play as Sonic and Blaze once more, but I'm not going to tell you how she appears, though. 
 That's really my only complaint . Hopefully the next game ( if there is ) will feature more playable 
 characters and different abilities that seperate them almost like Sonic Advance. Overall I enjoyed 
 the game and reccomend this to any fans of the Sonic Advance series and/or Genesis titles. I enjoyed 
 it and I hope you do too! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: calx3
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jun 19, 2008 10:15 am PT
Review:  Sonic Rush Adventure is a brilliant game for the Nintendo ds. Nintendo gave it a gold award and 
 92% it was also made a 12+ for the bad language. This game can be played on Wi-Fi and ds download 
 play! It even came with a Wi-Fi booklet.
  
  The main characters are sonic the hedgehog duh, blaze the cat, miles "tails" prower, marine the 
 raccoon, captain whisker and Johnny. Johnny is the right hand man of captain whisker also the coconut 
 crew who stay on marine's island.
  
  There are 4 ships that sonic, marine and tails made and they are in order wave cyclone (water bike) , 
 ocean tornado (sailboat) , aqua blast (hovercraft) and the deep typhoon (submarine) .
  
  The story line is amazing you start off the game with the cut scene where sonic and tails are in 
 an aero plane and there is a big storm going on, the plane gets hit by lightning and then the engine 
 blows up. So they are dragged into the wild tornado and the next thing they know they're stranded 
 on an island. There they meet Marine and the coconut crew who are a bunch of koalas. First of all 
 tails builds the wave cyclone so that you can get to the plant kingdom the first island, it's so 
 easy especially the boss where there is a glitch when you tae half the health off the robot dinosaur 
 it starts jumping about and then it makes a hole which you fall through and when you land on the 
 ground your feet go through the floor but apart from that there is no other glitches. Then after 
 that there are other levels that get harder as they go along also there are 16 hidden islands to 
 find and you might also find one of 7 Johnnys so that you can win one of 7 chaos emeralds in the 
 game + to get one of blaze's lost sol emeralds you have to play a mission that says get the sol 
 emeralds. You have to ask Gardon a koala beside the sailboat to get one of the missions. The hardest 
 mission for me was the pirate's island act 2 it was solid but when I completed it I was overjoyed 
 but then I had to beat Johnny and captain whisker which was easy and then the big swell a huge 
 robot which I beat 2/4 times and the last level I had to destroy dr eggman and his evil friend 
 which was fun and now I have to complete the rest of the missions, get all the cut scenes, the 
 tunes and all the medals. The minerals you collect on each island are in order: blue mineral, iron 
 mineral, green mineral, bronze mineral, red mineral, silver mineral, aqua mineral, gold mineral 
 and the last one for the pirate's island is the black mineral.
  
  In this game there is extreme sonic speed dual screen action, a fleet of sea vessels at your command 
 and fearsome 3Dboss battles. This game was made by the sonic team and is only for the DS. The manual 
 for this game is brilliant for all the description. 
  
  Gameplay-10/10
  Story-10/10
  Graphics-good
  Rating-8.5
  Levels-9.5/10
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: raptor400k
Rating: 8.5
Date: May 13, 2008 8:44 am PT
Review:  Although this Sonic Rush Adv enturedoesn't add much new to Sonic Rush, it is still a fun game. 
 Sonic the Hedhog is all about speed and being hyper but this one will make you go over hyper with 
 utilising TWO screens and adding the boost fature (though this was here in Sonic Rush 1) ! This game 
 got excellent level design and really fast and cool music which will rock your world. The only 
 new things it added are the ability to pilot jet ski's, hoverkrafts and to do rail shooting with 
 the stylus but thats just a they can minor distraction but you'll need to do them to got those 
 Chaos Emeralds and to get to pther islaou nds. Yes this time you have to plotyour course on a map 
 and then get there by a small challenge.
  
  This game just can't get repetetive but the only weakness is that it didn' add anything new really. 
 The graphics are ok and this game did teach me one thing. Sonic the Hedgehog is reat for portables 
 and bad for home consoles (modern ones) . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: fawazzzz
Rating: 10
Date: May 10, 2008 6:24 am PT
Review:  Sonic Rush Adventure Sonic Rush Adventure Sonic Rush AdveSonic Rush Adventurenture Sonic Rush Adventure 
 Sonic Rush Adventure Sonic Rush Adventure Sonic Rush Adventure Sonic Rush Adventure Sonic Rush 
 Adventure Sonic Rush Adventure Sonic Rush Adventure Sonic Rush Adventure Sonic Rush Adventure Sonic 
 Rush Adventure Sonic Rush Adventure Sonic Rush Adventure Sonic Rush Adventure Sonic Rush AdventureSonic 
 Rush Adventure Sonic Rush Adventure Sonic Rush Adventure Sonic Rush Adventure Sonic Rush Adventure 
 Sonic Rush Adventure Sonic Rush Adventure Sonic Rush AdventureSonic Rush AdventureSonic Rush AdventureSonic 
 Rush AdventureSonic Rush Adventure Sonic Rush Adventure Sonic Rush AdveSonic Rush Adventurenture 
 Sonic Rush Adventure Sonic Rush Adventure Sonic Rush Adventure Sonic Rush Adventure Sonic Rush 
 Adventure Sonic Rush Adventure Sonic Rush Adventure Sonic Rush Adventure Sonic Rush Adventure Sonic 
 Rush Adventure Sonic Rush Adventure Sonic Rush Adventure Sonic Rush Adventure Sonic Rush Adventure 
 Sonic Rush AdventureSonic Rush Adventure Sonic Rush Adventure Sonic Rush Adventure Sonic Rush Adventure 
 Sonic Rush Adventure Sonic Rush Adventure Sonic Rush Adventure Sonic Rush AdventureSonic Rush AdventureSonic 
 Rush AdventureSonic Rush Adventure 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Dark_sageX
Rating: 8.5
Date: Mar 28, 2008 7:19 am PT
Review:  Sonic hasn't been on top of the world lately and Sonic Rush Adventure is just what the hedgehog 
 needed! To put it simply, in your face Sonic haters!
  
  Story: Tails detected a strange energy reading and decided to investigate it, Sonic decided to 
 come a long for the ride.
  As they traveled over the oceans a huge storm approached and knocked the Plain off course, causing 
 the 2 to crash in the ocean.
  The next morning Sonic and Tails find themselves on a shore of an unknown island, where they met 
 the adventure lusting, highly energetic Marine the Raccoon.
  Marine explains to Sonic and Tails that they are in Southern island and she was working on a ship 
 in order to fulfill her dreams of sailing the seas to discover other islands.
  Tails decided to help Marine build the ship while Sonic was given the dangerous task to go around 
 the island and look for materials in order to complete the ship.
  
  Game design: Sonic Rush Adventure is a 2D high-speed action platfomer, with 3D graphics.
  The 
 story is presented in text dialogues and sometimes with animated cut scenes. 
  Like the old days you will be running at high speed, looping or grinding through stages. 
  You 
 will also be running in the top or bottom screen of the DS dual screens so you must pay attention.
 
  However you won't be going to other areas simply by completing the stages.
  You will be going on islands; each will have 2 courses, a boss stage and some bonus stages.
  
 After completing a stage you will get Materials, which are used to upgrade your boat.
  Once you complete your boat you will be able to travel to other islands. 
  You will simply draw 
 a rout using the stylus (similar to Zelda Phantom Hourglass) , which leads from one island to the 
 other and you will be doing a boat-racing course where you can collect rings and perform tricks 
 to get higher ranks.
  
  Game play: As Sonic you will run at high speed. 
  When Hitting bumping ramps or anything that makes Sonic Jump you can perform Ariel tricks.
  Performing 
 aerial tricks will not only give you points for higher Ranking but also fills up the tension gauge.
 
  The tension gauge is basically a boost gauge, you can fill it up and you can then perform boosts 
 which gives Sonic great acceleration, so you won't have to worry about not having enough speed 
 to go up hill, killing enemies and hitting check points also fill the tension gauge.
  You can also boost on enemies or items to destroy them, the same can also be done in boat racing 
 course.
  Later you can also play as Blaze.
  
  Sound: The game has a great selection of sound tracks that are worth listening to. There is very 
 few voice over, most of the dialogues are in text.
  
  Sonic Rush Adventure is the result of Sonic Team putting effort in to their mascot, if only they 
 put in more effort in the console games as well.
  The game's graphics is great and although the story is in text dialogues most of the time it is 
 pretty interesting (yes Sonic story interesting, shocker) 
  The game also has plenty of FUN side quests and replay value that's over the charts.
  A disappointing 
 thing though is that the game doesn't need much of the stylus function in actually game play, most 
 of the stylus functions are only used in menus, but when actually running the course you won't 
 use it.
  Another disappointing thing as that Sonic and Blaze are the only playable characters, so no Knuckles, 
 Shadow or Silver.
  
  This game proves why Sonic the Hedgehog is an icon of video gaming and what Sonic Team truly is 
 capable of, but the game could have been much more though.
  Regardless get this game! Unlike the console games you won't regret this!
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Blueguy93
Rating: 9.5
Date: Feb 28, 2008 4:14 pm PT
Review:  Sonic Rush was awesome, but had annoying boss battles. Can it stop Tails from being annoying? Not 
 so much. However, the adventures across water, 14 emeralds and 16 hidden islands, plus 100 mission 
 make the game a blast!
  
  The Story is somewhat annoying, Marine the Raccoon, a new character, is very annoying, even more 
 annoying then Tails. The story, however, is somewhat interesting as well.
  
  
  Game-play: 10/10
  
  Tails is completly unecessary in the game, unless you do training. Different 
 missions, islands, emeralds, items, and time attack completly destroy Tails's annoyance, as well 
 as Marine's. 
  
  Graphics: 10/10
  
  Graphically, it's a masterpiece. It's full of color's and all sorts of things. The boss battles 
 look much better then Sonic Rush's poor boss battles, and fits just right.
  
  
  Sound: 9/10
  
  Great music!! It's completly excellent. However, there's a minor tweak in the 
 Audio, the hovercrafts charging up sound is ugly, as well as some submarine sounds.
  
  Camera and control: 8/10
  
  In this category, it's mixed. The camera is very good, but the 
 control is awful. Control over many ships, such as the submarine, is very frustrating. For example, 
 again, battles against Johnny for a emerald is frustrating, and is very hard. The 2D zones are 
 easier, however, as you use the D-pad instead.
  
  Value: 10/10
  
  There's great things in this adventure. Sonic Rush Adventure has great moves and is an incredible 
 successor to Sonic Rush.
  
  Average score: 9.4/10
  
  It's an awesome game, so go get it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: psychohedgehog
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 22, 2008 7:14 am PT
Review:  i got this game for my birthday in 2007. i was expecting it to be very similar to sonic rush. i 
 couldn't belive that sonic and tails had ended up in blaze's world, let alone how excited marine 
 can be. i also enjoyed the seafaring levels especially when you race johnny. i had trouble beating 
 johnny for a few of the chaos emeralds. then i saw that i could upgrade the jet ski 2 times. what 
 really caught my interest was how eggman and eggman nega appeared in the extra story to take the 
 jeweled scepter to gain ultimate power. i found out eventually that marine replaced cream (sonic 
 and tails being in blaze's world of course) . i really enjoyed this game and will expect more game 
 to come. because the blue hedgehog has come a long way since the 1990s. keep up the good work, 
 sega and sonic team. you have my thanks. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: randomrings
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 18, 2008 4:42 pm PT
Review:  Sonic Rush had it all that a Sonic fan could want for that given time. Sonic was slowly becoming 
 a memory, but it came back and since then it's been doing pretty good in my opinion (haven't played 
 the 360 or PS3 one) . The sequel to the hedgehog-rising DS hit is good enough to where you don't 
 have to be a Sonic fan to like it, which I think is hard to find in some Sonic games. In the last 
 one, a new character Princess Blaze the Cat was put into Sonic's world of Mobius because their 
 worlds were colliding. In this game, you take a shot at Blaze's world where there's all kinds of 
 new enemies, bosses, and ways to fight them. The trick system's been made better (one example is 
 the kicking thing from Rush has been replaced by the "Humming Top" from Sonic Advance games) and 
 there are a lot of missions, some of the more challenging or confusing ones based on tricks. Two 
 surprising things about Sonic Rush Adventure are its wi-fi mode and stage diversity.
  
  Since the whole game's based off a little ocean place with a bunch of islands, you'd think all 
 the stages would be based off water, but you'll go through ice, machinery, and even places up in 
 the sky. There's also a lot more than 14 stages to go through this time with hidden islands. If 
 you can find them, your stage select levels will more than double. The wi-fi connection stuff has 
 not only a really good time attack leader board, where thousands of times will be posted per stage, 
 the multiplayer modes were done really nicely and smooth, and there's two modes (racing and ring 
 collecting) if you can find anybody on them. I would go into the major flaws, like the cheesy story 
 and the fact that most of the voices are pulled from the first Sonic Rush, but I'd have to spoil 
 you. Go see for yourself what's wrong, do yourself a favor.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: KnightNui
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 17, 2008 10:19 am PT
Review:  SONIC RUSH ADVENTURE- Exclsuive Knight-Nui Review
  
  Everyone loved Sonic Rush, as it was, Clearly, the best Sonic game in ages. It was 100% Loyal to 
 the original Trillogy, just doubling the speed. So here, theyve taken Sonic Rush and doubled 
 it again. This time, it's the length.
  
  See, SRA is MASSIVE. Its bigger then any Sonic game thats come before it, with as 
 well as 7 Worlds (With 3 Acts each) it has the 100 Missions based around it, which is all well 
 and good, but if there rubbish, its nothing, isnt it?
  
  Well, they arent. Thats the thing. There not quite as good or addictive as the ones 
 in Sonic & The Secret Rings on Wii, but there great nonetheless. Then there 15 Hidden Islands, 
 which you need to beat to unlock all of the Missions, and then the rest of the game.
  
  Then theres the first main Inovation Of SRA, and that is the WateCraft levels. You 
 can pilot Sonic over water in some Mini-Games involving you plotting a route and then setting off. 
 Its got a suprising amount of depth, how theres millions of Combinations, depending on the 
 exact movment of your Stylus when drawing your route Nintendogs-Style over the Sea. These arent 
 that good though, as the ones where you take control of the Guns (Battleship and Submarine) are 
 absolutely rubbish, espechialy the iritating and pointless Submarine, which was only added to make 
 the game longer.
  
  Theres also the small task of collecting enough materials to build them. This is a little tedious, 
 but a good way that SEGA Came up with to pad the game out a little more.
  
  The other thing you need to collect is the various Emeralds- Both sets of 7, the Chaos Emeralds 
 and the Sol Emeralds. Blaze needs to get the Sol ones by Re-Defeating Bosses and beating hidden 
 islands again, these are good fun, and better then Sonics races with New Enemy Whiskers 
 Right-hand-man, Johnny. There either way to easy or just frustratingly difficult.
  
  But over-all, the only real problem with Sonic Rush Adventure is the new Friends 
 Sonic makes- Marine the Racoon (What?) and a million and two Kollas, with only 4 of them being 
 relevant at all.
  
  Although this doesnt ruin the game, its still one of both the DS and Sonics 
 Finest games available.
  
  Overall a brilliant game, with some of Sonics best Platforming action in ages. A Must-Buy.
 
  
  94%
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: chazer127
Rating: 9.5
Date: Feb 8, 2008 5:52 am PT
Review:  The origanal Sonic rush on the DS was Ok to sya the least but there was something wrong and that 
 was the random holes or robot rooms which came up randomly after 2 or so minuets, But on Sonic 
 rush adventure Sega went all out with the music level design And the 3D water bike/boat/hovercraft 
 bits were Great! the only bad part was the new character... Marie the Australiun racoon...*Shudder*
 
  Sega done it again... Adding a pointless character just for the sake of it, The only thing she 
 does it wander off or yells at you for not doing something. But that isnt enought to spoil this 
 great speedy game. oh and the bosses are MUCH harder this time round, Just a warning.
  Also now this is now Wi-Fi you can compete against each other for the best time on any level. Another 
 Great thing is the emerald stages, They are Extremaly hard when you get to the final 3, Because 
 for the chaos emeralds you have to beat this rocket head robot... thing and to get the Soul emeralds 
 you have to do missions *which there are 100 of them BTW* to get them all, And that extra boss (which 
 I wont spoil for you) Is great 
::::::

::::::
UserName: IronBass
Rating: 8.5
Date: Feb 7, 2008 10:04 am PT
Review:  Almost everything in this game was improved in relation with the original Sonic Rush. The history 
 is as bad as any Sonic game. The music is a let down if you played the first Rush. But the graphics, 
 gameplay, and level design are really, really good. Going through the 14 big levels of the game 
 is a very fun experience. What is good, because you'll need to repeat each level at least twice 
 for collecting materials for your ship. Most people think that's a problem, but as I said the levels 
 are so fun that you won't get bored. The battles with the 9 Bosses are a lot better than in the 
 vast majority of platformers, with very good 3D graphics. 
  
  The truly defect of Sonic Rush Adventure is a fool one. For some reason, the people of Sonic Team 
 decided to cut the action between the levels with pathetic, 3D jet-ski scenes. They are bored, 
 and will make you miss the side-scroll levels. 
  
  If you are patient enough (like me) to ignore those 3D scenes and to repeat each level, you'll 
 enjoy one of the best DS games, and one of the best platformers in a long time.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Anton_111111
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 2, 2008 4:34 am PT
Review:  Sonic rush adventure is better than Sonic rush as: it has better sound, graphics and features wifi 
 races.
  
  I'll start with sound most of the tunes are very catchy and set up the atomsphere
  
  Graphics 
 is based on the orignal but i think sonic has longer spikes
  
  Wifi races as it means once you've completed it there is more to do also it is fun trying to beat 
 people
  
  some bad things the boats and sometimes the missons
  
  Boats they have intersting controls but can get boring after a while e. g i like the way u can control 
 the waterbike but it just doesn't seem right to do
  
  Missons two reasons
  
  A too many
  
  B some are irrelvant 
  
  Gameplay: 10 same basic concept are the first
 
  Graphics: 8 could be better but it still an improvement on the first
  Sound: 7 catchy sounds but some are annoying ;et down by voice actors
  
  Overall: 9.1 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DesertClawX2X
Rating: 8
Date: Jan 21, 2008 2:05 pm PT
Review:  A few years ago, a game called Sonic Rush was released. It was one of the best Sonic games that 
 I had played in a while. And in the wake of a swearing gun-toting anarchist (Shadow) , temporal 
 paradox crap (Next Gen) , and an average 2D racing game (Rivals) , it sure was welcome. Now, its 
 sequel is here, and while not as strong a showing as the first Rush, Adventure is quite good.
 
  
  The story (I'm not even going to try to place it in the timeline after the plotholes caused by 
 Rush, Rivals, and 06) picks up with Sonic and Tails following a weird energy signal in the midst 
 of a storm. They end up plane-wrecked and land on a mysterious island. After making friends with 
 newcomer Marine the Raccoon, Sonic and Tails set off to find a way back home while dealing with 
 the nefarious Captain Whisker and his crew. The plot is a bit weak, but hey, I'll take it over 
 06's any day.
  
  This time, gameplay adds on the addition of watercrafts (it's the only way you can travel from 
 island to island) . While the waterbike and hovercraft are by far the most enjoyable out of the 
 four, I wouldn't have minded if this aspect was axed or if the aforementioned vehicles were the 
 only ones in the game (the sailboat is manageable, but the submarine is god-awful) . Other than 
 that, gameplay is pretty much the same (other than the addition of missions, a slightly revamped 
 way of fighting bosses, and some more meaningful gameplay differences) .
  
  The graphics are more or less the same as Rush's. No problem there, although the 3D graphics occasionally 
 look a bit rough around the edges.
  
  The music for Rush Adventure is atypical of the Sonic series. I actually like Rush's soundtrack 
 better (maybe it's because the music was performed by Hideki Naganuma of Jet Set/Grind Radio fame) 
 although Adventure does have some notable music (Ghost Ship Act 1, the Waterbike theme, Blizzard 
 Peaks Act 1, and the Boss Battle music come to mind) .
  
  While I have no qualms about the 4Kids actors voicing Sonic and co. (I'm pretty much indifferent 
 to it now) , I do wish that they actually recorded new lines instead of using archival clips from 
 Rush (by the way, Marine doesn't have a VA, and the only characters with any new lines are Johnny 
 and Captain Whisker. How lazy...) .
  
  I don't really have much else to say. If you like Rush (or 2D Sonics in general) , pick up Adventure. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Gearsman92
Rating: 8
Date: Jan 20, 2008 3:30 pm PT
Review:  Well isn't this just a Bummer. It's a game that reminds me of Summer. Why, is that a wave bike 
 for me to forget this mess? Nope, It's Sonic the Hedgehog returning to the Nidtendo D. S. Yes folks 
 Sonic is back on the D. S and is possibly one of the best Sonic game yet. O. k 1st the bad. The story, 
 like the last game, is forgettable and feels taked on. Sonic and Tails are out when they get caught 
 in a storm and become straded on an Island, where they meet Marine the Racoon. Really Sega, a raccoon? 
 Wow, how many animals has Sega used? Let's see, Hedgehogs, Fox, Echidna, Bat, What ever the hell 
 NIGHTS is, Cats, Hawk, Swallow, Aerbatross, Human, Robot. O. K, back to the review. Later it seems 
 a new baddie name, get this, Captain Wiskers, is trying to take over the world and the 7 seas and 
 steal something, or something like that and this guy is pirate. But really, Catain Wiskers, Come 
 on Sega, Disney made better pirate names that were 100x better than Wisker. Why do you think one 
 of the resons we love the Pirates of the Carrabeian movies? So the story is boring, But strong 
 and fun gameplay. It's the same classic gameplay that works better, more fun, and some more. The 
 game also has the Return of Blaze the Cat. Like the last game, your still going through levels 
 to the end and it's still the same gameplay, but it's not a bad think since this is still fun. 
 To brake-up the action you will be traveling with different forms of transportation, Wave bikes, 
 ships, and other stuff. There all controlled with the Styles and surprisingly works well. You drive 
 the Wave bike with the Styles and when your in the air, you swip it to do a trike. The ship you 
 simply tap an enemy to attack. The Submerine works like Elite Beat Agents, wait for the outer circle 
 to come in to touch the enemy and kill it. This is all fun and surprisingly additive. The graphics 
 and envirements are just as amazing as the last game, hell there better than the last game, the 
 world is coler full and invetive like the last game, with more loopdy loops, and the new hip-hop 
 sound track sound just as good. Seriusly, can I get this on Itunes? Now here comes some more bad 
 news. You see, you can't just use the ship, you need to make the ships. In order to make them, 
 you'll have to get different material to make them, so you need to back track and get some and 
 this can get old fast. Also, the game is on the short side, it will take you about 8 hours to beat 
 it. But despite these Problems, This is a fun and great game to add to your D. S line up. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sonicthemegaman
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 20, 2008 12:06 pm PT
Review:  Sonic Rush Adventure proves that a whole "decade of bad sonic games" is not going to slow Sonic 
 down. This game not only revives the old-school side scrolling gameplay but, gives it a new-school 
 kick with great style and tunes that feel fresh yet true to the franchise. The gameplay is a rock 
 solid mixing of high speed platorming, innovative boss battles, and sailing across the deep blue 
 in a waterbike, sailboat, and other fun means of high seas transportation. The level design is 
 great making the fast pace stages challenging and varied as you ride on dolphins, fly through iron 
 jungles, and out run an avalanche while snowboarding. The production value is amazing blending 
 3D and 2D graphics to create a unique visual experience not seen on many DS games. Sound and music 
 live up to the Sonic name offering head-bobbin' tunes that make the game even more immersive. With 
 a ranking system, wealth of challenges, and online multiplayer, the value of Sonic's game far out 
 weighs that of many other DS titles. If you own a Nintendo DS then you owe it to yourself to have 
 a copy of Sonic Rush Adventure. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kbaily
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 20, 2008 10:40 am PT
Review:  I love Sonic but hate some of the crappy games he's been in. When I play a 3D Sonic game I try 
 to be forgiving knowing there's going to be slippery controls and so so gameplay.
  
  Luckily you need no rose-colored Sonic fan glasses for Sonic Rush Adventure, it's a worth successor 
 to the first Sonic Rush on the DS.
  
  This time around Sonic and Tails are out flying when they get caught in a wind storm, crash and 
 end up on a tropical island where they meet Marine the Racoon. Yes, Sega felt the need to bring 
 in another unessicary furry character to add to the already crowded roster. I should tell you now 
 that Marine has what is possibly the worst Austraillian accent in gaming. Luckily there's not really 
 any voice work in this game, just text. After a short time, Sonic reunites with Blaze the cat and 
 realizes that he and Tails ended up in Blaze's world (didn't she die in Sonic Next Gen?) . They 
 soon butt heads with a robotic pirate named Captain Whisker and find themselves in a race to stop 
 him and retreive the Sol and Chaos emeralds.
  
  Lame story aside, the gameplay is solid. It's the classic sidescrolling, 2D action you've come 
 to expect from the Sonic series. You can choose to play as Sonic or Blaze and have a blast running 
 through well designed platforming stages bouncing off bumpers and jump pads. The 2D levels are 
 just fun to play which is good because in order to collect certain items to move on, you may have 
 to repeat some of these stages. While it might feel tedious at times, the 2D stages are simply 
 so fun that it isn't that bad.
  
  Along with the classic 2D stages, SRA takes a cue from Zelda: Phantom Hourglass with some 3D water 
 travel stages. As with PH, you draw a path with the stylus to the next island and Sonic eventually 
 gets a collection of various watercraft to help him reach his destination. Most of these control 
 using the stylus and it does this very well. The most fun for me was the jetski which allows Sonic 
 to do tricks. All the watercraft make good use of the touch functionality and adds variety to the 
 game.
  
  Along with the main mission the game gives you plenty of side missions. Going around the island 
 you talk to the koala natives who offer you additonal missions like collecting a certain amount 
 of rings or beating a stage in a certain amount of time. There's also the time trial mode and wi-fi 
 leaderboards and multiplayer.
  
  Graphically Sonic Rush Adventure is bright and colorful and seems more detailed than its predecessor. 
 Most of the music is fun to listen to and unlike the 3D games there's no voice acting.
  
  There's really not much that's bad at Sonic Rush Adventure. Aside from the disposable story and 
 Marine's bad accent, the game is worth the money and reminds us that there are still great Sonic 
 games out there. Now if only Sega could take this and make a 3D game that's just as good 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Lord_Alan
Rating: 8
Date: Jan 12, 2008 8:20 am PT
Review:  Once upon a time, the only way to get a handheld Sonic fix was with the Sonic Advance series on 
 the Game Boy. With their mediocre level design and bland gameplay, they were nowhere near as good 
 as the classic Mega Drive Sonic games. Luckily, 2005's Sonic Rush changed all that with its fast-paced 
 gameplay and an outstanding soundtrack by the acclaimed composer Hideki Naganuma.
  
  Apparently creating a straight sequel to Sonic Rush wasn't enough for Sega, who chose to add the 
 'Adventure' moniker this time around. As anyone who has played a Sonic game before will tell you, 
 'adventure' is really a euphemism for 'crap storyline'. Sonic Rush Adventure's plot is so terrible, 
 it borders on offensive- you can look forward to a daft tale filled with bearded robo-pirates, 
 island-dwelling koalas and the most irritating Sonic sidekick since Charmy Bee.
  
  But don't despair! You can skip the story entirely and get on with enjoying the game instead. Taking 
 on a nautical theme, in Sonic Rush Adventure you'll travel to various islands (some tropical, some 
 not) collect lots of rings, smash up lots of enemies and run very, very fast. Virtually nothing 
 about the core game has changed since its predecessor, but considering how enjoyable Sonic Rush 
 was that's certainly no bad thing. Sonic Rush Adventure looks excellent, with some very impressive 
 3D graphics that will give your DS a good workout. However, the music is nowhere near as good as 
 that of Rush and before long you'll be turning the volume down. It's a shame, but by no means a 
 deal breaker.
  
  The most drastic change to the Sonic formula is how Sonic travels from one level to the next. The 
 ever-present and ever-annoying Tails provides the transport, including a jetski and submarine to 
 cruise the oceans in. Plotting a course on the 'Sea Chart' using the DS stylus, you then use the 
 touch screen to steer or blow up pirate ships along the way. This could quite easily have descended 
 into tedium, but it manages to break up the action with a refreshing change of pace that feels 
 neither tacked on nor gimmicky. There are countless hidden islands and Chaos Emeralds to be found, 
 so it's well worth taking the time to explore.
  
  Sonic Rush Adventure is a lot like Sonic Rush, only much bigger and shinier. If you're looking 
 for a DS game with addictive gameplay and longevity to match, Sonic Rush Adventure is as good as 
 it gets. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: koopatroopa1015
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 8, 2008 6:00 pm PT
Review:  You know him, you love him... Sonic the Hedgehog! Now he's made a great new adventure on the DS.. 
 Sonic Rush Adventure. Travel to the sea among more than a dozen islands with fun-filled race levels 
 and crazy bosses in search of treasure and to defeat the pirates! Traveling across the sea in a 
 quest to defeat pirates and find treasure has never been so much fun!
  
  On the home base of Southern Island, Sonic, Tails, and Blaze will team up with Marine, a silly 
 racoon, to save their world from the notorious pirates and to find a grand treasure. You'll be 
 sent to sea by waterbike, sailboat, hovercraft, and even a submarine - to collect rings and rack 
 up points. Upon land, you'll race through a maze of loops, rings, trampolines, and enemies while 
 pulling off tricks and getting lots of points. You'll also face crazy bosses that are very fun 
 to fight. Along with that, there are time trials where you can race through the stages and try 
 to get the best times. You've also got multiplayer and Wi-Fi, where you can race opponents for 
 the best time, or collect the most rings and become the most wealthy. On top of that, you can update 
 your scores and times onto Wi-Fi where you can compare yourself to the best rushers online!
  
  You'll enjoy the storyline a lot - it's one of the most creative I've seen in a while. You'll 
 love the action, bosses and races, whether upon land or at sea. The controls are easy to handle, 
 but the game is a bit too easy. Nevertheless, you'll still enjoy it loads. Throw in some great 
 graphics and you've made it even better. They're absolutely spectacular in color, detail, and smoothness. 
 The SFX are cool, and the music is phenomenal. It doesn't really get better than this.
  
  For your time and money, it's well worth it. It's a great game - too good to pass up. Everything 
 this game has to offer is definitely a good investment. I recommend this game to just about everyone. 
 Even if you've never been a big fan of Sonic (like me) , you'll still get loads of entertainment 
 from this game.
  
  So what are you waiting for? Sonic Rush Adventures stays true to its title - great rushing races 
 and an awesome adventure make this game magnificent. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Whiteghost09
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jan 8, 2008 10:32 am PT
Review:  I'm a fan of platformers, especially on the DS. I've beaten NSMB, almost beaten Yoshi's Island, 
 and I've played a bit of Super Princess Peach. I picked up this game in hopes that it would be 
 right up there with NSMB, which is at the top of my platformers list. Well, it was a decent game, 
 but it's not nearly as good as Mario Bros. 
  This game does have its bright sides. Going from island to island is a fun diversion from the regular 
 levels, and the controls for each vehicle work well except for the submarine (they try to make 
 it a liite Elite Beat Agents-esque minigame, which is really pathetic) . The platforming sections 
 are very fast paced and fun, and sometimes you get on this roll where you fly extrememly fast through 
 the level, but then that roll gets cut short if you haven't memorized the level. This is because 
 of the immense scaleof the levels, which are designed wonderfully (they are designed well, but 
 there are some negative sides to there size and the speed at which you fly through them, see next 
 paragraph) . The story is decent, but the little cut-scenes can get too long. The graphics are good, 
 and the boss battles are a blast.
  Like I said earlier, the levels are designed well, but they are very large. You can use the bottom 
 (or top) screen to see what is coming sometimes, But since you're going so fast, you don't really 
 have time to glance at the other screen. This leaves you to go speeding blindly through whatever 
 stage you're attempting (which is pretty fun, you just get stuck at hard parts a lot) . The game 
 is a bit short, but it's long enough. As for the difficulty levels, there are only about three 
 that are even somewhat challenging. The others are pretty much a piece of cake. The last gripe 
 I have is with the controls. When you jump, you kind of hover in the air, and sometimes it's hard 
 to control where you will land. Also, the way you fight enemies (by dashing into them or jumping 
 into them) feels very unrefined. 
  In conclusion, the game is pretty decent, but I guess it's up there (probably 4th) on the platformers 
 list. If you like platformers or Sonic, then you'll like this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: benleslie5
Rating: 8
Date: Jan 5, 2008 4:16 pm PT
Review:  Hey what's the rush? Sonic is back again in 2D- 3D form on DS the oraginal Sonic Rush was really 
 enjoyable but I found this abit disappointing becuase there's no special stages but the game does 
 remind iyou of Sonic Adventure on the Dreamcast if some gamers can remeber it a few years ago. 
 You can use the touch screen when your sailing out to sea on awaterbike or a sailboat and also 
 useing the touch screen on the sea chart to mark where your heading next kinda like Legend of Zelda 
 Phantom Hourglass if you played it. Main gameplay is just the same as Sonic Rush which is a god 
 thing about the DS verion of a Sonic Game. Also collecting Chaos emeralds or Sol Emeralds by either 
 racing or beating bosses you've already beaten on Mission mode.
  
  Main story is when Sonic and Tails get caught in a tornedo storm in the middle of the sea while 
 there in Tail's Plane but your are stuck on an island where you will meet the most annoying charcter 
 in the game called Marine the Racoon a cheesy female who is always incharge and acts like a child 
 and just an adventure also you can play as Blaze who helps Sonic and you find out that Captin Whisker 
 who is this robot pirate short tempered and wants to rule the world. Surprised that Dr Eggman isn't 
 in this game but you will do when your playing it for hours. 
  Once you beaten the game you can replay levels and missions to get cool stuff on Marine's island. 
 Which is basicly the main options menu to Time Trail, Adventure mode and Wi-Fi play if you wan 
 to play other gamers who have got Wireless DS or multi-card play. Sonic Rush Adventure is alot 
 like Phantom Hourglass on DS but a basic platformer with a few cheap deaths. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BlazeHedgehog
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 31, 2007 9:37 am PT
Review:  I always begin these reviews by laying it on the line for you: I'm a Sonic fan. I have been since 
 the birth of the franchise. To me, Sonic games are serious business. And yes, I've made a couple 
 of bad purchase decisions because there was a blue hedgehog on the box. 
  
  Let's face it: The Sonic franchise is in the dumps. More often than not, each Sonic game to come 
 out of Sega is more bad than it is good. Quite simply put, Sonic's glory days were on the Sega 
 Genesis. Anything since then has been of varying quality from "decent" to "absolute garbage". If 
 you disagree with me - well, you're entitled to your opinion, but you're also probably too young 
 to understand what the Genesis games were like to those of us who experienced them back when they 
 were relevant. 
  
  When Sonic Rush Adventure was first unveiled, I was indifferent. Nothing about it really wowed 
 me - the graphic design seemed to be rather bland, and the theme of pirates as the main enemy sort 
 of made me think of how Sonic & The Secret Rings did the Arabian Nights thing. What made it worst 
 of all, however, was the fact that long-time Sonic handheld developer Dimps was reportedly out 
 of the picture after licensing issues with Sega over their arcade fighter, The Rumblefish. Dimps 
 was responsible for the entire Sonic Advance line of games, as well as the original Sonic Rush. 
 With Sonicteam themselves personally helming this installment, the cynic in me casually brushed 
 the game off, convinced they'd manage to mess it up somehow (as they often have a habit of doing, 
 recently) . 
  
  Color me shocked, then, to find out that Sonic Rush Adventure is actually one of the tightest, 
 most cohesive and above all the most fun Sonic games the franchise has seen in nearly 13 years. 
 
  
  On it's surface, Sonic Rush Adventure looks, more or less, like the original Sonic Rush. The gameplay 
 from the original remains largely intact: run from the left side of the screen to the right side, 
 collecting as many rings, destroying as many enemies, and boosting through everything as much as 
 possible. Your boost meter is filled up by executing mid-air trick combos using the A, B, and R 
 buttons - or by tricking while grinding a rail. Finish the level, get your score tallied up, and 
 receive a rank based on your overall performance. At the end of the second "act", you face off 
 against a boss, which generally are much, much, much bigger than Sonic is.
  
  And while minor tweaks to this formula are no doubt visible to Sonic fans like me, the biggest 
 and most immediate change is the implementation of the "Adventure" elements. What this boils down 
 to is another stab at the "RPG Lite" concept folks over at Sonicteam seem to be so obsessed with. 
 Inbetween levels Sonic is dumped back to "Windmill Island" where you're given an opportunity to 
 roam around in an overhead 3D environment in order to talk to NPCs and advance the storyline (and 
 be thankful: every single cutscene in the entire game can be skipped by pressing the start button) . 
 Windmill Island has docks, where you can launch various watercraft in order to search for new "islands" 
 (levels) in small minigames that blend concepts from Zelda: Phantom Hourglass, Starfox: Command 
 Mission, and the original Sonic Rush's special stages. Basically, you are provided with a sea chart 
 and must draw the path you want to sail. Each of the four available craft are suited best to a 
 specific type of situation and each have their own unique sailing minigames. Though you start with 
 nothing but a jet ski, Tails will eventually build the rest of the watercraft throughout the course 
 of the game using "Materials" you acquire as a bonus for completing a level. Each level has their 
 own unique material, and the higher rank you get, the more of that type of material you earn.
 
  
  And while the sailing minigames are fun, as the game progresses Tails starts to ask for more and 
 more varied types of materials - which basically means you often have to re-visit a level you've 
 already beaten in order to gain the materials you need. This is far from a deal breaker for me; 
 never once did I really feel that annoyed I had to go back and re-visit levels in order to advance 
 the game forward, but for some people this may be a small source of frustration. Thankfully, though, 
 Sonic Rush Adventure's level design is a cut above most of the level design we've seen in past 
 Sonic games. 
  
  The major complaint I had with the original Sonic Rush (and the Sonic Advance games) was that they 
 often featured unforgiving level design that liked to test the player's twitch reflex. You'd frequently 
 find yourself in a situation where suddenly you'd find yourself getting hit by an enemy you were 
 going too fast to see - or falling in to a bottomless pit because the game gave you no indication 
 of when to jump. 
  
  I am happy to report that Sonic Rush Adventure does it's best to fix this issue. Though things 
 like bottomless pits exist, the number of cheap hits and cheap deaths have been dramatically scaled 
 down. Enemies and obstacles are more often than not placed logically within a level and the game 
 never sends you to your doom without giving you ample time to react. The only place cheap deaths 
 still exists in Sonic Rush Adventure are the 16 optional (and often very short) "Hidden Islands" 
 that are stashed in secret locations around the world map. But even those are forgivable: one gets 
 the impression that those levels are supposed to be hard, and because most of them are optional, 
 you can simply choose to avoid them. Even the process of acquiring Chaos Emeralds has been made 
 considerably more comfortable and accessible than the frustration-inducing methods seen in the 
 previous portable Sonic titles. 
  
  And once you've completed the storyline, 100 bonus missions open up for play. These mainly involve 
 revisiting previous levels to complete a special task (beat the level under a strict timelimit, 
 collect a certain number of rings, face off against a harder version of an old boss, etc.) , and 
 they can be pretty difficult, at times. Though shallow, they're still better than nothing and provide 
 extended replay value for those of you out there who like to squeeze every last droplet of playtime 
 out of a game. As an added bonus, the game features online multiplayer via the Nintendo Wifi Connection 
 and Time Trial leaderboards. Though multiplayer is limited strictly to racing through levels for 
 the fastest times or the highest ring counts, the simple fact that it's even there is good enough 
 for a lot of people - and the Leaderboards should provide hardcore Sonic fans with more than enough 
 challenge as they compete for the best time with other Sonic Rush Adventure owners from all over 
 the world. 
  
  It's a very complete package with a lot to do, and it's honestly a very good game. It was somewhere 
 near the end of the storyline that I had sort of an epiphany in regards to the game; much like 
 it dawned on me while playing Rayman 2, I realized just how much fun I was having sailing around 
 the world map looking for new Hidden Islands to conquer. It was a feeling I hadn't felt in regards 
 to a Sonic game in many, many years. 
  
  This is the real deal, folks. If you used to be a Sonic fan and have fallen out of grace with the 
 franchise like so many have, you owe it to yourself to give Sonic Rush Adventure a look. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: PhazonBlazer
Rating: 8
Date: Dec 23, 2007 4:02 pm PT
Review:  Well... this ones a tough game to rate so I'll break it up into categories.
  Story:
  So the story revolves arround Sonic and Tails crash-landing on an island and being greeted by a (I 
 think its a racoon) Marine. The story eventually rises to Sonic meeting Blaze again (from Sonic Rush) , 
 and now they have to take down a villian, the diabolical CAPTAIN WHISKERS!!! Yeah its a stupid 
 name...4Kids probably had fun naming these charecters. After you beat the admirable captain, you 
 have to find the 7 Chaos and Sol emeralds. After that well, I dont want to spoil anything. Overall 
 though, the story just seems thrown together in a crappy manner, yet still sometimes funny.
  Story Score=7
  Gameplay:
  It plays just like a Sonic game, with some new tricks. Like in the 
 first Rush, the trick system is back and better than ever. In the air, you can press various button 
 variations in the air to get Trick points. So you ask why this system is necessary, well at the 
 end of each level you get a rank based on Rings, Time, and Tricks. Also there are new elements 
 in the side-scrolling stages like being able to fly using a hang-glider, and other various mechanics 
 come into play as well. Also new to the series, the abillity to sail from level to level, through 
 various minigame-like sailing levels. There are 4 ships in all: a Jet Ski, a Sail Boat, a Hovercraft, 
 and a Submarine. The Hovercraft and Jet Ski have you moving the stylus sideways to steer, the Jet 
 Ski can jump off of boards to perform tricks, and the Hovercraft can fire lasers at enemies. The 
 Sail Boat and the Submarine play alike too, you target enemys by tapping them. In the Sail Boat 
 levels, you can switch weapons from a gun, cannon, or flamethrower. In the Submarine levels, you 
 have to target enemies when the two circles targeting them allign, one thing I dont like about 
 this is that whie attacking enemies, more show up and attack you, making it confusing to attack 
 the enemies that are ready to be attacked. All in all the gameplay is the best part of the game. 
 Also, to build ships, you need to collect materials by visiting varios levels, which gets very 
 VERY repitive.
  Gameplay Score=9
  Sound
  O... M... G... where to begin about this "wonderful" sound. The opening song is the most annoying 
 thing I have heard. The level music makes me want to shoot myself. The boss fight music makes me 
 want to just throw the game at the wall and use a flame thrower to burn it. Now imagine these in 
 repeating patterns... OVER AND OVER AGAIN!!! The voice acting is still done by 4Kids, so expecct 
 annoying voices when they come on. But still some of the sound effects can be pretty good, such 
 as plowing through enemies, shooting with the weapons, and ect.
  Sound Score=6
  Graphics
  Well heres something alot better than the sound. The graphics are very colorful, and overall pretty 
 darn good. The charecter design are very good for the DS. The water looks good also. Pretty much 
 everything about the graphics is very good. Don't expect to see 360 graphics from this though, 
 but I don't care, I like the colorful graphics.
  Graphics score=8.5
  Lasting Appeal
  Well there are alot of missions to play, and you can upgrade the ships. But after that, there is 
 ONLINE MULTIPLAYER!!! The online is basic and effective, you can challenge people in either collect 
 the rings or race.
  Lasting Appeal Socre=8
  Overall=8.2
  Get it if you enjoy Sonic, plattforming, and have a good pair of ear-muffs on your head to block 
 out the music.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: ChrissieGirl
Rating: 8.5
Date: Dec 19, 2007 8:50 am PT
Review:  I'll just be honest with everybody; I had my worries about this one. After the bad Sonic the Hedgehog 
 title on the 360/PS3 and the abysmal so-called port of the original Sonic game for the Game Boy 
 Advance, I was worried that Sonic Rush Adventure would turn out as bad as those two. Thankfully 
 though, when I picked this game up for the first time and tried it out, massive relief swept over 
 me. This game is almost as good as the first Rush. I say 'almost', because there were a couple 
 of things about the game that bugged me.
  
  The story, for one, is actually pretty decent. Sonic and Tails get caught up in a storm and swept 
 up on a mysterious island, where they meet a young raccoon girl named Marine. Yes, that's right. 
 Sega added another new character. The worst part about it is that Marine is almost pretty much 
 a pointless addition. Quite simply, she wants to go out and adventure but she ends up wrecking 
 her own ship because she forgets to install brakes. Tails offers to build a new ship for her, and 
 their adventure begins. Of course, Blaze makes a return, but I don't want to reveal how or why 
 in case people who have yet to play the game do not want spoilers, but it's pretty good.
  
  In the first Rush game, you were thrown right into the gameplay. I got the impression that in the 
 first game, the gameplay was the number one priority. Here, when you start the story mode, you 
 are thrown into a medley of cut-scenes, showing Sonic and Tails in the storm, and up to when Marine's 
 ship gets wrecked. Then you are thrown into a tutorial, which, thankfully, you can skip if you're 
 already familiar with the controls from Rush, as none of the controls have changed in this game.
 
  
  You do eventually get around to the fast-paced, screen-jumping gameplay from the first game, and 
 when you do, you'll find it's pretty much exactly the same as the first Rush, which isn't really 
 that much of a bad thing, because the first Rush was brilliant in terms of gameplay. The boost 
 system's still there. When you start you'll only play as Sonic, but later on, you'll unlock Blaze. 
 The best part is though; you don't have to go through two separate stories like you did in the 
 first Rush. Once you've unlocked Blaze, you can choose which of the two characters you want to 
 play as when you reach a level, and that's it.
  
  There are also more touch screen-based levels here than in the first Rush. To get to new levels, 
 you need to travel to them by various sea-related vehicles that Tails' builds. You mark your route 
 on the map, before travelling to your location. You use the touch-screen in various ways to control 
 whatever vehicle you're using, or in one particular case, to shoot enemies while on a ship. It's, 
 for the most part, pretty fun, though while I was riding on the water bike to the first proper 
 platforming level, all I wanted to do was to play the game like I did Sonic Rush  just speed through 
 the platforming stages. 
  
  There is one major gripe I have with the game though, that stopped me from having the same amount 
 of fun that I had with the first Sonic Rush; the repetition. You need to collect materials for 
 Tails to build new things, and to stock up on said materials, you'll often have to revisit certain 
 levels and beat them again to get more materials. Unlike in Sonic Rush where you only went through 
 a level twice in story mode (once with Sonic and once with Blaze) , and time attack was optional, 
 here you have no option. If you want to progress with the story, you have to go back to these levels 
 many times over to collect more materials. The higher your grade, the more material you earn.
 
  
  In this game, you not only have to collect the Chaos Emeralds, but the Sol Emeralds as well, and 
 each are collected differently. To collect the Chaos Emeralds for Sonic, you have to race against 
 Captain Whisker's lackey, Johnny, who you have to search the seas for. To collect the Sol Emeralds, 
 you have to perform various side missions. Personally, collecting the emeralds in the first game 
 felt like a simpler, more fun experience than here. 
  
  Other than those changes here and there, some which improve the Rush formula and some which sets 
 it back from the first Rush, the gameplay is a lot like the first Rush titles, with a few other 
 gameplay elements tossed in to bulk the game out. The bosses are a bit better in this game though 
 than in the first Rush in my personal opinion, I just found them more fun. 
  
  There is multiplayer, though I cannot say if it lags or not due to not fully trying this myself, 
 but the good news is, it's got the option of local multiplayer and online multiplayer, which sounds 
 like fun. 
  
  The graphics haven't changed at all from the first Rush game. The levels still have that Sonic 
 feel to them, and are still colourful, if not simplistic in places. The music is also pretty good, 
 but it's not as good as the music in the first Rush game. The voice-acting is pretty much the same 
 as from the first game, meaning Sonic still sounds emotionless and bland, Tails still sounds girly, 
 whereas Blaze and the two Eggman characters sound decent. Marine has no voice. Captain Whisker 
 and Johnny's voices weren't that special.
  
  I can't really say much more about Rush Adventure, so what it all boils down to is; did you enjoy 
 the first Sonic Rush? If you did, then you will likely enjoy this title as well, though it might 
 prove to be a little disappointing in some areas, like having to repeat levels to get materials. 
 But it's still a lot better than some other recent efforts, and is probably worth a look. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Spaction3
Rating: 8
Date: Dec 13, 2007 12:22 am PT
Review:  While Sega is just ruining most things in Sonic these days, there is still one thing that stays 
 true, the 2D titles. Sonic Rush Adventure comes along and keeps that all good with new ups for 
 the series that help it move along while also with drawbacks that prevent any saving grace for 
 the Sonic series sadly.
  
  GAMEPLAY:
  Pros:
  It stays true to the speedy goodness of the 2D Sonic games and the levels are still fun and challenging 
 plus it had more elements to the game relating to speed making it more of a Sonicish challenge. 
 The Chaos Emerald challenges are also pretty fun as well but you will need to upgrade your vehicles 
 to do so. Also the stuff to do with your water vehicles can be pretty fun and fast paced actually. 
 Another thing this game offers is some of the best boss battles to come around in a while for a 
 Sonic game but the best thing of all for this game is the online wi-fi vs. mode.
  
  Cons:
  The RPG elements in this game just kind of feel like they drag the game on and the over 
 searching the seas adds to that as well, not to mention having to play many of the stages more 
 then once, all it does is just feel to drag on the game too much. Another thing relating to dragging 
 on is the over usage of cutscenes. The cutscenes are all text diologue but there is just too much. 
 I can appreciate the story and it's actually a decent one for once, but they could have eased up 
 on the cutscenes none the less. Also many of these missions you do have the same problem for me 
 as well, some of them are good I will admit, but all it does is just seem to drag the game on.
 
  
  STORY:
  As I said, the story is decent, Sonic and Tails crash and have to find a way home and also a way 
 to stop their new enemy Captain Whisker and along to help them is Marine, a little girl with her 
 brain in the clouds, seriously, she is so absent minded that it's irritating. Blaze is also back 
 but it's also confusing as what is it with her? Is she from the future like in Sonic: The Disaster 
 or literally from another dimension? What is Sega doing to the continuity? Well just as well, Sonic 
 Next Gen sucked anyway. One thing I got to say, before Marine's name was annouced, why on Earth 
 were SO many people calling her Rings? I know Sonic characters have many cliche names but come 
 on, that name sucks, and it bothered me more when people were upset that it wasn't her name, I 
 like the name Marine.
  
  GRAPHICS:
  Pretty good and colorful, that is really all I need to say. And a good mix of 2D and 3D visuals.
 
  
  SOUND:
  MUSIC:
  When I first saw some videos, I thought the music sucked, but when I played the game, I was actually 
 very entertained by the soundtrack. I even consider the boss music one of the most catchy ever 
 used in a Sonic game.
  
  EFFECTS:
  Many classic and new sound effects, helps with the nostalgic factor and keeps it feeling true, 
 exciting and such.
  
  VOICES:
  Before this game was released, a rep of Sega said 4Kids wasn't going to be needed anymore, and 
 then we end up with the 4Kids cast staying anyway, the liers. All the clips for Sonic, Tails and 
 Blaze are recycled from the first Sonic Rush. Tails' clips by Amy Palent were actually decent from 
 that game, Bella Hudson fits Blaze well so her clips are fine, but Jason Griffith, horrible, he 
 is everything Sonic is not. He sounds bland, unemotional, unrealistic, dopey and dorky. Even worse, 
 the guy admitted that he doesn't care about Sonic or really the fans. The only new voices are Whisker 
 and Johnny and I don't like them, Whisker is too mellow and Johnny sounds very wrong to me.
  
  OVERALL:
  If you are looking for any of the pros I stated, then I would get this Sonic title 
 by all means. However if you are looking for something better then the original Sonic Rush, I would 
 say go on eBay and buy Sonic Advance 3, because this isn't an improvement over Sonic Rush, but 
 it's not any worse then it either, it's just as good and I like that for a good game.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: yohnazo
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 8, 2007 12:34 pm PT
Review:  People may be debsting weather to get this game or not I will help you decide.
  SR adventure is a great, 2D high speed action game, each new level has something differen't to 
 make you say WOW in amazement from 3D graphics to flying in the air to blasting at incredible speeds 
 it keeps you addicted, from start to end this game delivers an adrenalyn rush making you smile 
 just as you reach the highest spring and fly upwards. This game also shifts into 3D at certain 
 points, like grinding the last rail of Level 1 act 1 to Sonic flying towards and away from the 
 screen.
  Unlike in the first Sonic Rush game there are vechels you xan ride in 3D to explore the world map, 
 the veichel you start off with is the wave cyclone (jet-ski) which is fast and has you flying of 
 ramps and doing tricks with the touch screen and boosting at high speedsm you draw your route on 
 the sea map and you're off. There are lots of secret islands to find hidden in the ocean. There 
 are also Jet-ski races to win chaos emeralds, which are fun but disapointingly easy.
  There is also a WiFi mode where you can play people around the world, you can play pretty much 
 anytime, by odds there'll be someone to play you. 
  By collecting specail materials from each level you can build, upgrade your veichels and travel 
 further out to sea.
  The boss battles are now a better than what they where in the first game, they all have great 3D 
 graphics and always have something new, unfortuanately they are a lot easier than in the first 
 game, as are the levels and races for the chaos emerald, the final stage boss is a challenge but 
 you'll of beaten it after you 5th try. There are missions which start of easy and get hard later 
 on, the ones you have to do for soul emeralds are easy. The fact it's easier does make it more 
 fun because it's less frustrating.
  
  Summary:
  Good points: 
  1. Is really fast.
  2. Great level design, bosses, world map.
  3. Great 3D graphics.
  4. Great replay value.
 
  5. Addictive WiFi play.
  
  Bad points:
  1. Not challenging for experienced gamers.
  2. Still no chao garden. 
  3. Missions get frustrating.
  4. No Wi-Fi voice chat or pausing 
 the game in WiFi. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: niconetox
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 29, 2007 3:08 pm PT
Review:  This game' s gameplay is simply wonderful. You get to play as both Sonic and Blaze, so you get 
 to play with two different characters. The stages are really challenging and has many puzzles, 
 but you can get through them in one to four minutes. The stages are really fun and quick, if not 
 tough. The ship stages are a lot of fun, but can be frustrating at times, especially the Johnny 
 / Chaos Emerald races.
  The music and audio of this game also are excellent. The sound of this game coming form the characters 
 is smooth and clear. The music of this game is an excellent production. Even in the main title 
 and Johnny races, the music is good. The boss battles and the stages are also a wonderful source 
 of it.
  This game' s boss battles are very creative. From every boss battle up to Captain Whisker, it is 
 fun. The game gives unique ways to attack them and defeat them, while having a lot of creative 
 ways to attack you. The audio, as mentioned above, is simply great. The storyline of each major 
 enemy may not be the best, but is enough.
  This game is the blue hedgehog' s best game, having wonderful visuals, sound and gameplay. It is 
 too bad that the characters' expression during cutscenes and other little flaws brought the game 
 down, but it is still a great game, especially for a Sonic game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Dizzydennis
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 17, 2007 8:36 pm PT
Review:  Overview: Alright in Sonic Rush Adventure, we start our plot with Sonic and Tails in their plane, 
 the Tornando. They see a mysterious tornando coming out of the ocean and soon enough, they crash 
 into it. Waking up on an island, may not sound so bad, if it weren't for Marine. About 4 1/2 seconds 
 after waking up, Marine the Raccoon tries to break Sonic and Tails into the adventure. For some 
 strange reason SEGA thought it'd be a good idea to make Marine very Austrailian, speaking in slang 
 that I had a difficult time understanding. Marine makes Tails look cool! The trio runs into Blaze 
 the Cat and together they try to stop an evil group of robot pirates controlled by Captain Whiskers. 
 Soon it's high speeds on the high seas.
  
  Graphics: The graphics in Sonic Rush Adventure are fantastic! For chararcters, both Sonic and Blaze 
 look fantastic and they don't stick out from the enviornments as much as the original Sonic Rush. 
 For the levels themselves, they look fantastic! Each island (stage) looks different. The jungle-like 
 levels have great effects that make trees and such look vibrant. The metallic levels look like 
 an old factory with these awesome steam effects and these drums that quickly bounce Sonic and Blaze 
 back and forth from the foreground to the background. The ice levels have phenominal snow and ice 
 effects, that take me back to the days of Ice Cap zone in Sonic the Hedgehog 3 & Knuckles. The 
 game also has a lot of 3D stuff thrown in there. It actually still holds up just as good as the 
 2D graphics. Very impressive.
  
  Sound: Sounds in this game are better than Sonic Rush, but there not fantastic. We do have the 
 ring and jump noises and also more bloops and bleeps. They did lower some sounds, which was good 
 so they blend in more with the game. Sounds are good, not great.
  
  Music: Sonic Rush was known for having these fast paced and bumpy music and Sonic Rush Adventure 
 is no different. I actually have to say that the music has been improved! Instead of being random 
 tunes to every level, it feels like each island's music fits it perfectly. The babylon level's 
 music has more of this ancient classical feel, while the ice levels have this music that seems 
 to feel lighthearted. It's amazing how each levels music can be different, but still hold up this 
 fast pace. Also, in one boss fight, we get a remix of songs from Sonic Advance 2 and the original 
 Sonic Rush.
  
  Voices: Bad! Now the voices themselves in this game aren't bad, the acting is good. It's just that 
 these are the same voiceovers we've heard from Sonic Rush. Sonic, Blaze, and Tails all have reused 
 clips. Captain Whiskers is alright, but not doing much more than that. Johnny is a another rival 
 for Sonic who is a  and his voice overs 
 are annoying. Also, no joke... Johnny sounds literally gay. Marine has no voice overs, which is 
 good because she was annoying silent, so imagine her with voices. Let me just say something about 
 Marine, she does get more likeable throughout the game.
  
  Gameplay: The gameplay in Sonic Rush Adventure is awesome. I have to break it down into seperate 
 parts.
  
  Normal gameplay:
  The stages in Sonic Rush Adventure are awesome! The levels all feel fair with difficulty and length. 
 Both Sonic and Blaze move pretty fast and blasting through stages is pretty awesome. It's good 
 that these stages are all fun, because Tails is going to send you back again, and again, and again, 
 and again, and again to stages. This is NOT a bad thing. Infact, the stages in Sonic Rush Adventure 
 are so fun, I don't see why you wouldn't want to go back to them. Certain levels also make the 
 stages go into 3D. In Plant Kingdom, you grind in 3D, in Coral Caves you go into a mine chaft in 
 a mine cart in 3D. In my favorite level, Blizzard Peaks Act 1, you actually snowboard through moutains, 
 going on these ice halfpipes from the background into the foreground. It's a blast! There is also 
 a mission mode that allows you to perform specific tasks, such as killing a number of enemies in 
 a time limit, or finding a hidden treasure. Although the prize for completing all 100 missions 
 isn't great (I won't ruin it) , it's a fun diversion. Also included is an awesome online mode! You 
 can play WIFI with your friends (which I've had the pleasure of playing my fellow Gamespot users) , 
 or somebody at random. It's awesome to see who's the best of the best! There is 2 modes in online 
 mode, Race and Collect the Rings. Both modes are very fun.
  
  Boss battles:
  The bosses in Sonic Rush Adventure are great! No longer are they on just one screen. All the bosses 
 have variety now and they are all pretty fun. On fight is against a giant robotic t-rex and it's 
 so cool. Another fight is against a giant serpent that shoots down enemies that you use to get 
 to the air (top screen) and start bashing the enemies. Each boss uses the dual screens fantastically 
 and they are all fun. Unfortunatly, the frame rate in the boss battles are slower, but they are 
 very bearable. I'd rather have a slow framerate constantly than a framerate that jumps from speeds.
 
  
  Ocean stages:
  To get from island to island or to just explore the oceans, you're going to have to hop on board 
 a vechile. The jetski controls fun and similar to Sonic and the Secret Rings. You basically move 
 forward and control boosts and if you want to move left or right. The hovercraft controls similarly, 
 but can spin and shoot lasers. The ship, is like an on-rail shooter. You have machine guns, cannonballs, 
 and a flamethrower. The machine is fun, the cannons are too slow, and the flamethrower is a waste. 
 Finally, you can use a submarine, which plays like Elite Beat Agents. Tapping enemies with timed 
 hits.
  
  So basically, Sonic Rush Adventure is a fantastic game! It combines old and new perfectly. It has 
 more modes, more levels and just more fun, I suggest you try it out!
  
  8.4 out of 10. 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: DoctorEggman
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 17, 2007 2:45 pm PT
Review:  Gameplay 9: When you start the game, you'll go through the storyline, scrolling through text, but 
 this time thee are some improvements. Now the characters have interesting expressions, and story 
 has some better dialogue. Also, you can skip any cutscene, so you won't be bored to tears. The 
 gameplay starts off with a super-short training stage for Sonic. You can choose to either blast 
 through the stage and get it over with or let Tails explain the basic actions to you. After that, 
 you can set out onto the ocean on your waterbike and head to the next area the game pompts you 
 to. Your destination is Zone 1: Plant Kingdom. Simply draw the course you wish to take to get there. 
 You'll travel across the ocean, using the stylus to easily control your craft. Now, does this bog 
 down the experience we want in our Sonic games? For the most part, no. These areas require quick 
 movements, and are all-together fun. And to those who like using the touch screen, this may be 
 addicting. Doing tricks, and collecting rings will fill your boost guage. As you travel around, 
 collecting rings, dodging rocks, and boosting your way through enemies, your watercraft icon on 
 the top screen will reach the end of the line you drew on the sea chart earlier, and the stage 
 will end. Tails can build a few different water vehicles for you. But you'll need to get the proper 
 types of materials for him, before he can construct a new craft. So, why can't you use the waterbike 
 throughout the whole game, reaching each destination you are prompted toward? Because some areas 
 are inaccessable to some vehicles. Some far away islands can only be reached by the Ocean Tornado 
 (ship) , which can travel long distances. But that craft access an island surrounded by icebergs 
 or shallow water. The ship's controls let you shoot down enemy ships on the ocean with 3 different 
 weapons. Bullets, cannon balls, and fire. Bullets are fast, but cannot penetrate the thick armor 
 of giant ships. Cannon balls are slow, but powerful, and flames can... well, burn stufff. I'm not 
 sure how it works, but it's pretty fun! This sea ship challenge requires quick reflexes to destroy 
 imcoming enemy torpedos, cannon balls, and missiles. There's the hovercraft, which is like the 
 waterbike, only in fires some heavy laser blasts, and can deflect enemy fire by spinning. Lastly, 
 there is the submarine, which kets you destroy underwater foes by playing a round of Elite Beat 
 Agents with them. Not literally, but the controls are basically the same. Just touch or slide the 
 circles at the right time, and those enemies are history. 
  
  Now, if you've played Sonic Rush, you'll notice the gameplay is very much the same. Simply use 
 Sonic to try to reach the end of the stages as fast as possible, performing tricks, destroying 
 enemies, collecting rings at Sonic speeds. Takig damage will cause your rings to scatter for you 
 to pick them up again, while taking damage without a ring will kill you. You still have your tension 
 guage which you can fill up to 300% by getting special items, destroying enemies, and most efficiently, 
 doing tricks. You can press and hold the Y button to unleash your ultimate speed instantly, thus 
 sending you in the direction you are facing at an incredible pace. While doing this, you'll instantly 
 destroy any 1-hit enemy you come in contact with. This game also keeps the good old mid-air tricks 
 which were introduced in Sonic Advance 2 on the GBA. You can use the D-pad and the R Button to 
 boost in any direction after being launched off of a gimmick such as a spring or ramp. The R Button 
 jump-dash/homing attack is also back, making enemies more fun to destroy quickly, and can also 
 be used to travel across a trail of airborne foes. Now, Blaze the Cat is pretty much the same as 
 using Sonic the Hedgehog, only she's a little slower on her feet, but can reach greater distances 
 with her R Button mid-air tricks. And the R Button still lets her hover for a short amount of time. 
 So, you've probably guessed that taking shortcuts with her is much easier at times. And you'll 
 want those shortcuts when you go to race players across the world via Nintendo Wi-Fi Connection. 
 Now, earlier I mentioned Tails needing materials, and fetching them for him sounds like a tedious 
 task, but acuaally, it's quite fun. All you need to do is reach the end of the stage, and get a 
 good rank. "C" ranks will reward you with one material, and an "S" rank will yeild four matrials. 
 So, if you have done horribly in the stages and have not bothered to locate and complete the Secret 
 Island stages, you'll find yourself coming back to the same stages again, to pick up more matterials. 
 But this isn't really a bad thing. Why? Because the stages are so fun to play. Their fluid design, 
 branching paths, and interesting gimmicks are sure to keep you entertained as you travel through 
 them. You can return to any stage you've previously visited via the stage select screen. Lastly 
 about the stages, there are tons of new gimmicks, as well as old ones returning, but with improvements. 
 So the levels don't feel like the same old thing, but with a new coat of paint. Some of them include 
 speedy mine carts, catapults, snowboards, and even some fun-to-ride dolphins. 
  
  Now, as tradition goes, you must play in a Boss Act after clearing the stage's 2 normal Acts. These 
 bosses are alot more interesting and fun than the ones you'll find in Sonic Rush. First off, the 
 bosses have a life bar on the bottom of the screen, instead of a display showing how many more 
 hits it needs until its defeat. So, instead of 8 hits, you'll need.... I'm guessing 40 hits to 
 kill a boss. But the fact that you can now attack a boss rapidly makes this fun istead of boring 
 and tedious. Gameplay during the boss stages are in 2D, but the graphics are 3D. The only bad thing 
 about these boss battles is the constantly slower than normal framerate. Now, it isn't a terrible 
 problem, just a little one. But since the framerate is mostly steady, you'll quickly get used to 
 this, and it shouldn't bother you anymore, especially since boss fights are so fun. I must say, 
 they are some of the best sidescroller boss battles Sonic has ever had to fight.
  Last to be mentioned here, but certainly not least, are the online and local VS modes. Remember 
 how the VS mode on Sonic Rush had slowdowns that really hampered down the multiplayer fun? Well, 
 tha's not the case anymore. You can play via local wireless multicart or download play, or go online 
 via Nintendo Wi-Fi Connection and play against strangers or friends from all over the world. About 
 a year ago, I wanted to play my Sonic Rush with my online buddies, but I couldn't. Nowdays, Sonic 
 Rush Adventure changes that. The gameplay over the internet is very smooth, just like in 1 player 
 mode. The difference is now the items are different, and can be used to hinder your opponent's 
 progress during the race to the finish, or race to collect the most rings. This type of VS mode 
 is one of the game's most enjoyable features for me. There are also leaderboards which can be found 
 at the official Sonic Rush Adventure site. If you've got a really good time in Time Attack Mode, 
 you can decide to upload it to the site, and brag to the world about your "mad skills".
  
  Graphics 8: Although it doesn't try to look realistic like Metroid Prime Hunters, it's definitely 
 one of the better-looking DS games out there. The graphics are every bit as crisp and clear as 
 they were in Sonic Rush. Sonic and Blaze's movements are incredibly fluid, and the graphical effects 
 and details added to boss battles and cutscenes will catch any gamer's eye. The stages keep the 
 vivid, semi-fantasy charm that most Sonic games have to them. There are even some brief 3D segments 
 added to the stages, which make it look very interesting, and add to the fun diversity of each 
 stage. With sevral gimmicks in the game, you'll see your character either jump out at you or be 
 thrown into the distance, thus spicing the game up with more graphical effects.
  
  Sound 8: The sound quality in this game surprised me, since alot of DS game miss their chance to 
 make sounds and music as nice as this. The music sounds somewhat like the first Sonic Rush, only 
 more adventurous, rather than trying to sound cool and fun. The tunes match each stage and event 
 perfectly, and makes excellent use of instruments that Sonic Rush did not. The music sounds very 
 nice, yet it's still upbeat and catchy like a Sonic game should be, although something about it 
 doesn't quite feel like the Genesis and GBA Sonic games did. When you go underwater, the music 
 sounds muffled, yet very nice. Almost if you were to actually hear music with your ears covered 
 by water. The sound effects are all still here, and are used to bring more detail and life into 
 the cutscenes as well as make the gameplay more amusing. One thing I liked is the fact that the 
 character voices don't seem to jump out at you so much, but rather, they seem to blend into the 
 game, which is nice. Sonic and Blaze still have their old Sonic Rush voice clips used in this game. 
 Captain Whisker and Johnny have pretty bad voices. But fortunately, you don't have to listen to 
 them very much at all.
  
  Value: 8
  Tilt: 10
  
  Result 8.6: Now, I know I've probably led you guys to believe this is one of the best Sonic games, 
 but that's only because it probably is! Although no game is 100% perfect, Sonic Rush Adventure 
 comes close enough to appeal to newcomers with its solid controls, brilliant sound, and crisp graphics. 
 This game is easy to reccomend to anyone, not just Sonic fans. Even if you like Sonic just a little, 
 this game is worth a good try. If Sonic games improve more than this, our blue hero will most likely 
 regain more of his dignity which he lost last year. This game was worth every penny. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Cursednavi
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 16, 2007 12:38 pm PT
Review:  Remeber the times before sonic for 360 and secret rings when sonic games were good well this is 
 definitly the closest thing youll get. Sonic rush adventure introduces a brand new way of sonic. 
 It has solid old school action sonic with some brand new twist that for once worked out good. In 
 this game you can play as two great charecters. Sonic of course and one of the only good new charecters 
 blaze. The game has a decent story line with plenty of play time. Between wi fi, leaderboards, 
 single player, and mission mode youll hvae plenty of things to do. The classic sonic gameplay is 
 just like old sonic with great graphics. The ships are crazy fun to use and has a great extra stage. 
 This game is great with only a few bad things such as having to repeat levels. Overall this is 
 a great sonic game that is a remembrance of how great sonic games could be. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DS-man
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 11, 2007 11:09 am PT
Review:  Best Sonic game to date, The Fastest sonic has ever been!.
  Sonic moves so fast on Sonic Dash he has to have 2!! Screens, Zoom, i hav'nt seen him this fast, 
 ever, this is defently the best sonic to date.
  
  The graphics are so good, even on the 3D boss fights!.
  Blaze The Cat is a wired char to handle 
 at the begining seeing as her moves are totaly different to sonics, or any other chars of the matter.
 
  
  Gameplay surperp, Sonic has this extra abillity to make him go super fast!!!. when you destory 
 enamys your gauge will rise, higher it is faster you'll go! ZOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOM!.
  
  I recomend you guys buying this awesome game!
  
  PS- You'll reconise the music from classic 
 songs. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kkiirraa99
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 6, 2007 7:26 pm PT
Review:  Okay as you know mario and sonic have been long time rivals and let me tell you in my opinion this 
 is one of the best sonic games ever. It was very fun.\
  
  There is bad things but there really isn't that much one thing is the story was kind of weak but 
 the game play was good just the story really didn't feel like you needed to do the story and thats 
 basically it. ohh an also i wish the jump control worked better because it was kind of hard to 
 jump high really quickly because you had to hold down the jump button which is really annoying 
 when you're running and you want to jump over a gap and yeah.
  
  Good things there is alot this game to me it was just classic sonic fun. The graphics in this game 
 were so great i think they should have made it completely a 3d game because there was 3d parts 
 and to me for the ds they were really good. Another good thing is you get to play as blaze and 
 he's the absolute best may i mention. also the availability to just play the stages you want instead 
 of following the story if you get tired of the story you can go back to stages you didn't do well 
 on and attempt to get a better grade which i think is really fun. Multi-player and wifi is really 
 good also because to me i loved using the water bike and sailing the sailing and stuff is really 
 interactive and fun to do like on the water bike you use the stylus to perform tricks and on the 
 sailboat you use the cannons and guns to destroy the the enemy by touching the touch screen. I 
 would definitely reccomend this game for sonic fans and anyone who likes this genre of game because 
 it was a very good game and i think it was better then the first game 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sonic3456
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 1, 2007 7:17 pm PT
Review:  Sonic Rush Adventure improves upon Sonic Rush in many ways. The story shows sonic and tails getting 
 sucked into a tornado and landing on south island, there they meet Marine, an 8 year old racoon 
 who thinks she's their captain. Anyway shortly after they find Blaze and relize they are in her 
 world (nice little twist) . Anyway the core gameplay is still the same, but when you add all the 
 ships (with different control schemes) you have the most fun DS game 2 date. the graphics are slightly 
 better than Sonic Rush's making it one ofthe best looking DS games 2 date. As far as sound goes 
 the voice acting is crap, but the music and sound effects are all spot on here. The game is compelling 
 enough to want ot play all the levels over again, plus you've got missions which give the game 
 good replay value. Anyway you've got to buy this game because it's better than Sonic Rush and one 
 of Sonic's best games ever. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: schoolsucks2005
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 26, 2007 11:59 am PT
Review:  I bought this game a few weeks ago. Being a huge fan of the handheld Sonic games (except the Sonic 
 GBA port... ugh!) and especially the first Sonic Rush, I just had to pick this up... and it didn't 
 disappoint. In fact, I liked this more than the first Sonic Rush, and that game is awesome too. 
 With so many dodgy Sonic games at the moment, this really gave Sonic the old-skool feel that many 
 Sonic fans were waiting for and gave us a bit of hope and that Sonic can still come up with some 
 ideas. This game had everything. Speed, unique gameplay you name it! The style of the levels were 
 very similar to the first Sonic Rush and the soundtrack was pretty good too :) The graphics were 
 nice, and the addition of the different boats you could unlock to access different islands was 
 great too. It shows that Sonic Team can come up with original ideas and stay true to Sonic's roots. 
 There are only two characters playable in this game; Sonic and Blaze but it is better that way, 
 even though I loved playing as Tails and Knuckles in Sonic Advances 1,2, and 3. Sonic's advantage 
 is speed and Blaze's is jumping a bit higher so it is easier to perform tricks as her. The best 
 thing about this game to me though, is when you complete the Story Mode, it is not over yet. You 
 can play the mission modes to unlock the soundtrack so that keeps you going for a good while. This 
 game is definitely an awesome title, and worthy to the Sonic name. Highly recommended to all ages 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Crash_Man8
Rating: 7.5
Date: Oct 24, 2007 4:41 pm PT
Review:  Being a Sonic the Hedgehog fan my whole life, I was completely entitled to the Sega Genesis era. 
 The last Sonic game I purchased was Sonic and the Secret Rings, boy was I disappointed. Sonic was 
 just not made to be played in 3D (Sonic 3D was a minor exception) , but Sonic Rush Adventure takes 
 the side scrolling hedgehog we all love and adds some 3D style.
  
  Story: Boring! Sonic never had any impressive story lines behind the game and this one doesnt 
 ring any bells either. Sonic and Tails are flying in Tails airplane, they crash, meet a raccoon 
 named Marine and he needs a ship to explore the oceans. Hey! Sonic and Tails need to get home somehow, 
 so they lend a hand. Sonic must explore islands to obtain materials to build the ship. Whatever!
 
  2/5
  
  Gameplay: Playing the blue hedgehogs current games, I thought I was going to run to the bathroom 
 and puke again at another failure release. I actually found the gameplay very awesome. It brings 
 the 2D side scrolling Sonic along with some 3D aspects. The Gameplay is very fast paced (what Sonic 
 game isnt right? Shut up) . If you played any of the Sonic Advance Games, Sonic Rush Adventure 
 also has the trick system. By doing tricks or defeating enemies, your Tension Gauge will fill 
 up, allowing you to perform a Super Boost until it runs out. In order to reach a level, you must 
 draw a path from the current island to the next with the stylus. When your route is selected, you 
 ride the 3D Jet Ski to the island (you can do tricksooohhh!) . The best part about this game is 
 the 3D Boss battles.
  4/5
  
  Graphics: Not much to say here. They are pretty decent for the DS. The levels are bright and designed 
 uniquely. The bosses show off the graphic category with a great 3D feel. Sonic Rush Adventure has 
 life in it and does a great job using both screens during each level.
  5/5
  
  Sound: Damn it all! Sound effects are the same since the first Genesis release. I do not know how 
 your taste in video game music is, but just like the first Sonic Rush, it has that damn funk music 
 in it. It is an upbeat sound with voice samples in the background. It has some catchy tunes, I 
 guess...
  3/5
  
  Overall: If you liked the first Sonic Rush, then I recommend getting this title. It is fun, very 
 fast and enjoyable for a couple of days. Then again, do not get this game if youre looking for 
 something impressive. Yeah it is fun, the levels are great, but if you were not fond with the Sonic 
 Advance (s) or Sonic Rush then do not purchase this. Thank you for reading my review.
  Sonic Rush Adventure: 14/20 
::::::

::::::
UserName: halo1001001
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 21, 2007 6:13 pm PT
Review:  The sequel to the well recieved Sonic Rush improves many things over the first game. It also keeps 
 many of the basics of the first one.
  
  One of the many new things they added to this game are the water vehicles. They are used to help 
 you get from island to island. You get materials after completing a level and depending on your 
 rank, that's how many you get. You then build and eventually boost your vehicles. You have the 
 waterbike, the ship, the hovercraft, and the submarine. The waterbike is a fast, thrilling experience 
 on the water and you're allowed to do tricks on it as well as boost, but has the shortest distance 
 on a map. The ship has weapons which are used to fire at enemies from the side while also increasing 
 the distance on the map. The hovercraft can spin to deflect weapons as well as as charge up a blast 
 as well as increasing the distance on the map. Finally the submarine which takes place underwater, 
 you are just basically shooting at the enimes and this also has the longest distance on the map. 
 Though you have all of these vehicles, the one you'll probable like the most without a doubt is 
 the waterbike.
  
  The levels are very unique. They are mostly based on speed and usually will add some things like 
 the snowboard in Blizzard Peaks. There is also a bit of 3-D added to some levels thus demonstrating 
 the capabilities of the DS graphics. The boss fights also have a big improvement. The bottom screen 
 is now also used for the fight. They have 2-D bosses as always as well as adding a few 3-D bosses 
 thus making it the first 2-D Sonic game to do so. When hitting the bosses, you are allowed to hit 
 it more than once since the bosses have more life than in Sonic Rush.
  
  The graphics are pretty much the same, but more 3-D parts are used in this game though. You also 
 notice that Sonic moves a lot smoother in this game than in the first and his tricks also look 
 smoother. There are also cutscenes done in full motion 3-D unlike in the first one where it was 
 only dialogue.
  
  The music is the rockin tunes for each level but with a bit of a pirate theme added for each one. 
 Some music include vocals while some don't, which doesn't really matter beacuse they all sound 
 great. Though the sound effects for the tricks were a bit annoying considering you do tricks pretty 
 much throughout the whole game.
  
  The story is simple. Sonic and Tails are caught in a storm which bring them to Blaze's dimension. 
 They then find a new threat who goes by the name of Captain Whiskers and his first mate Johnny. 
 You have to get the Jeweled Scepter back from him which he plans to rule the seas with. Along the 
 way, you find a new character named Marine. She thinks she's a good pirate, but she's really just 
 a big nuisance. After finally getting back the Jeweled Scepter, you find out that Captain Whiskers 
 wasn't behind the whole plot. It was really Eggman and Eggman Nega who wanted the Jeweled Scepter 
 to unlock the unlimited power below the island. After Super Sonic and Fiery Blaze defeat the duo, 
 they return the Scpeter to the altar now well guarded and Sonic and Tails leave.
  
  Along the way, you will have to get all the Chaos Emeralds and Sol Emeralds in order to fully beat 
 the game. In order to get the Chaos Emeralds back, you have to race against Johnny to get one at 
 a time. It's a bt of a hassle trying the find each of his loactions on the sea charts. In order 
 to get the Sol Emeralds, you have to complete a certain mission in order to get one. There is now 
 something called Mission Mode. If you talk to Marine, you can choose to do a mission and you'll 
 be asked to select one out of the 100 missions. Though you have to talk to some people to be given 
 a mission first. Many of those missions either ask you to beat a level, get the medal, or beat 
 a boss. This game is able to support Nintendo Wi-Fi Connection. You can either check your status 
 in the world rankings or race against people online. You are also able to race against your friends 
 with only one DS cartridge using the DS Download Station. This game is really worth checking out 
 and most likely you won't be dissapointed with it. Especially since it provides you with many hours 
 of gameplay and a retail price of only $30. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DarkProwl
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 22, 2007 6:48 pm PT
Review:  The original Sonic Rush was a pretty awesome game to begin with, but it just wasn't enough to keep 
 you goin for a long time. You could beat it in a day or two and be done with it.
  
  However, Rush Adventure is MUCH longer than that. Even if you beat the final boss in a day, you've 
 still got to get the 7 Chaos Emeralds from the notorious Johnny, clear all 100 missions, trick 
 out the island and upgrade your rides. And that'll take at least 4 more days, even for the most 
 hardcore Sonic fan.
  
  This game is unbelievably fast (a lot faster than the original) , especially when you get the power-up 
 that lets you do tricks nonstop so you can hammer the B Button and get a lot of trick points. Even 
 Blaze seems to move a bit faster, and that's saying something.
  
  Boss fights are EPIC in this game, and on top of that, they're just plain fun. And look great too. 
 They now require skill, precision, and excellent timing.
  
  The graphics are just as good if not better than the original Rush's, with some slightly noticeable 
 differences in character models (or at least Sonic's, anyway) . The 3D cutscenes were awesome; I 
 just wish there were more, especially since you can watch them again. After beating some Missions, 
 of course.
  
  The music is the best it's ever been! This soundtrack is truly amazing. The cutscene music is so 
 good, you wouldn't think a DS was capable of producing such sound. Some of it's so intense you'd 
 think it was something out of Sonic Adventure or Shadow the Hedgehog! It isn't as techno-y as Rush, 
 but more tropical with a hint of techno funk. And just wait 'til you hear the song for Deep Core! 
 It [and the Pinch] is the best songs in the entire series. No lie.
  
  Story is pretty good and gameplay is like Rush, but better. The sailing parts can be pretty tough, 
 and after the 4th Chaos Emerald, Johnny is a real pain. But once you're done with it, you're done 
 with it, which is good. This game has a lot of replay value after you've beaten the story, like 
 I said earlier. The Wi-Fi leaderboards are a fun challenge (though there are a few bogus times...) 
 and the multiplayer is fun to play with a friend. I just wish you could have races in the Waterbike 
 and battles in the Sailboat. And maybe battle races in the Hovercraft and Co-op in the sub. That'd 
 be kewl.
  
  Overall, this is a great game that any DS owner should definitely pick up (or at least rent) , Sonic 
 fan or not. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cps
Rating: 8.5
Date: Oct 15, 2007 9:13 am PT
Review:  Nintendo has seen what has to be one of the greatest Sonic titles, which graced their handheld, 
 the DS; Sonic Rush. Now the famous blue hedgehog is back with co and is cruising an ocean of adventure. 
 After a storm causes Sonic and Tails to crash from their plane into the sea, they awake hours later 
 on a mysterious new island. Quickly they bump into Marine, a new character to the franchise who 
 is eager to set out on her own adventure, oblivious to Sonic's fame. It is not long before you 
 get to explore Windmill Island that serves as your base throughout the game, from here you collect 
 your first 'Materials' - allow me to explain - Marine has wrecked her Jet Ski and you use 'Materials' 
 found by completing stages, to fix it or build new crafts to travel the vast ocean that surrounds 
 the island. The pace quickens as you set out on the restored Jet Ski, across the sea to the first 
 island. The touch screen controls are used to guide Sonic left and right, to either dodge obsticles 
 or enemies, or to collect rings scattered over the waves. Your route is determined by drawing a 
 line from your starting point on the map, to your destination, in Phantom Hourglass fashion. There 
 is not much to it, but it is quite fun, if a bit unsonic - some of you may like the exploration 
 elements, some purists will hate it. Later, more crafts can be unlocked in order to advance, and 
 will feature different touch screen controls, which will have you firing cannons at enemy ships 
 to targeting submerged enemies. Personally I find these touch screen elements a welcome change 
 from the original Sonic Rush's bonus levels which I found to be broken. Although the task of collecting 
 Chaos Emeralds is not in any way easier, as you perform in races to win them, but certainly more 
 enjoyable!
  
  Finally - you reach the first island, and get back to true Sonic action - side scrolling, running, 
 jumping and rushing. The same formula seen in the first Rush returns, with some tweaks to the gameplay, 
 but it doesn't need to be fixed, it was never broken - what you will play with each act, is Sonic 
 perfection. The only problem I can see some people having is the delay between each Island - having 
 to upgrade to new crafts etc... Luckily once any level is started, it can be replayed by the main 
 menu (pressing Y) .
  
  There aren't many levels and it is particulary sad to see Blaze (although she at least returns) 
 doesn't get her own version of levels. I won't spoil the storyline for you but this time her and 
 Sonic share the same reality. (Whereas in Sonic Rush they played in separate realities that mirrored 
 the other, but showed subtle differences, particulary in boss battles) .
  
  Even the music doesn't have that difference, and overall seems a lazy effort compared to Rush - 
 although some tunes are very good, there is nothing nearly as memorable.
  
  The Boss battles of the game is where it shines, although they may seem easy on your first play 
 through (I will explain a bit later) . These bad boys are BIG and strong! They're also some of the 
 most imaginative bosses I have seen in any Sonic game. One boss will need you to dodge a giant 
 Mechanical Whale's chomping bites, but then go inside the machine's stomach and find your way to 
 it's weakpoint. They can be easily beaten, although the last boss will give you a hard time. But 
 new challenges can be unlocked in the form of Missions.
  
  There are 100 missions in the game, and each boss reappears for a second and tougher battle. These 
 missions unlock extras in the game, and are for collecting Blaze's Sol Emeralds. Some missions 
 will have you race across a particular level in search of a hidden medal, or reach the goal within 
 a time limit, or perform a certain amount of tricks - overall they're very varied and a favourable 
 method of unlocking hidden extras, than say, backtracking over the ocean in search, which I was 
 expecting.
  
  Once all Chaos and Sol Emeralds have been found, expect some 'Super' fun, you can usually rely 
 on to be in every Sonic title. I found Sonic Rush Adventure to be a fun experience and I've been 
 wanting it since I finished the original - but is it rewarding? Yes and no, while there are 100 
 missions, upgradable ships, hidden islands, and Wi-Fi, the replayability for any Sonic game, comes 
 down to the main acts of the game, which lack any of the creativity or challenge the first Rush 
 showed. But it still makes a good game, with imaginative bosses and loads more content.
  
  Definately worth a look - and if you're a Sonic Rush fan, even though you might be slightly dissapointed, 
 you should own this anyway - if not already! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: stayinalive84
Rating: 8
Date: Oct 12, 2007 5:11 pm PT
Review:  Meet Marine the Raccoon. Shes crazy. Utterly delusional. A few cards short of a full deck. Loco 
 en la cabeza. But hey, can you blame her? Shes been stuck on this island for God knows how long. 
 Its never explicitly stated what she did to survive - the lack of other islanders offers a grisly 
 suggestion of cannibalism - but shes been here long enough to lose her grip on reality. She aspires 
 to be a great sea captain or adventurer, and has even adopted a horribly cheesy Australian accent 
 to complement her new persona. But no matter what her fractured mind leads her to believe, theres 
 always one constant problem: the ocean. It taunts her unceasingly with its lapping waves and impassible 
 waters. Shes stuck on a tiny speck of sand in the middle of the sea; theres no one else out there. 
 No chance of rescue. In fact, its probably only a matter of time before she decides that the salty 
 depths may not be so bad after all and go for a final swim.
  
  Needless to say, shes downright ecstatic when Sonic and Tails plane crash-lands onto her island. 
 Of course, Segas classic dynamic duo dont want anything to do with this lunatic little lady, 
 but they need her seafaring expertise now that their ride home is destroyed. The plot eventually 
 involves the heroes fighting cyborg pirate dude/ Dr. Robotnik wannabe, but Sonic Rush Adventure 
 shoves enough annoying dialogue down your throat to make you despise all the new characters from 
 the get-go. By the time you get past the first few of Marines incessant blabberings, youll learn 
 to appreciate the Skip Scene command. Then theres Blaze the Cat, the trans-dimensional femme 
 fatale from the original Sonic Rush. Even though her place in the plot (along with every aspect 
 of the story) feels tacked on at best, she serves as the alternate playable character throughout 
 the game.
  
  Veterans of old-school Sonic games need not sneer at this newcomer; Blaze can kick just as much 
 robot pirate ass as Sonic. Both of these characters can charge up their energy and zoom forth in 
 brief bursts of energy, strike enemies in midair with homing strikes, and run down nearly any foe 
 foolish enough to get in their way. The only real difference is that Blaze, true to her namesake, 
 surrounds herself in a ball of grainy-looking fire when she does her attacks. Aside from that, 
 the gameplay features the standard fare that youd expect from a 2D Sonic title. Either hero will 
 have to collect a bunch of floating rings, leap over bottomless pits, and sprint around looping 
 tracks. Each level boasts hallways strewn with spiky floors, descending ceilings, collapsible bridges, 
 and a fair share of inept baddies. A slew of challenging platforming action later, and Sonic or 
 Blaze will reach the goal and be graded for their adrenaline-powered performances.
  
  Gasp! Grading systems in a 2D Sonic game? Dont worry about it. You can retry the levels as much 
 as you want (though youll return to the beginning of the level if you run out of continues) until 
 you finally reach the treasure chest at the end of each area. But if youre a perfectionist and 
 like seeing that shiny S Rank on the results screen, youll need to familiarize yourself with 
 the games Trick System. Basically, Sonic and Blaze can perform a bunch of acrobatics while theyre 
 soaring through the air or grinding along a rail. Theres no fancy Touch Screen stuff or anything 
 like that; you just mash the B Button as much as you can and watch the heroes flip, kick, and gyrate 
 to earn a higher score. Performing such stunts also charges up a meter on the side of the screen. 
 This stored energy can be used to give the characters extra boosts of speed to get through the 
 level. The pacing and buildup of the energy is excellent; youll have plenty of springs, vines, 
 and other objects help initiate your tricks, then face parts thatll require your hero to expend 
 everything to go as fast as possible. Bonus points and a nigh-endless source of boost energy? Sounds 
 like a solid combination. But if youre a bit too lazy make use of this new system, bear this in 
 mind: the higher grade you get, the more rewards youll receive. Nothing particularly mind-blowingly 
 awesome, though; youll net a few nuggets of metallic ore. These little trinkets are the key to 
 the adventures progression; using his knowledge of technology and mechanics, Tails can convert 
 the ore into the vehicles youll need to traverse the sea. Youll get to zoom around on a jet ski, 
 patrol the outer waters in a galleon or hovercraft, and even search for underwater caves via a 
 fully loaded submarine. Of course, building such things requires tons of metal, so youll have 
 to replay the levels over and over again to acquire enough pieces. Considering the main story only 
 boasts 14 regular levels and seven boss encounters, all of that replay may seem a little dullat 
 first. The game designers recognized that theyre essentially forcing you to retry beaten levels, 
 so theyve crafted each area with tons of alternate routes and passageways to explore. By the time 
 youve searched everything that a level has to offer, youll have more than enough goods to complete 
 the next craft. Using your hard-earned vehicle, however, is something entirely different than what 
 other Sonic games feature. Since youre stuck on Marines island at the start of the game, youll 
 have to drive your crafts out into the open water (Wind Waker fans will recognize the similarities 
 immediately) in search of the next island/plot device. The problem is that the area is completely 
 uncharted and blanketed by fog; youll have to roam around blindly and pray that you hit something. 
 Youre not given free range of movement, either. In a rather gimmicky style, youll have to use 
 your stylus to plot a course on the overworld map (be wary of reefs and rock formations that may 
 bring your excursion to a halt) and then set sail. You cant just travel to your destination, of 
 course; youll have to fight through the treacherous waters by completing a series of Touch Screen 
 challenges along the way. Depending on what vehicle youre using, youll get to bombard fleets 
 of foes with cannonballs, launch off ramps and do midair tricks, or ram through floating minefields. 
 While such tasks are utterly unoriginal and simplistic, they do offer a much-needed interruption 
 between the fast-paced levels. The traveling sequences also offer another difference: graphical 
 perspectives. If youre wandering around the ocean - be it by ship, jet ski, submarine, or whatever 
 else  your excursion is rendered completely in 3D. The water is like an endless patchwork of heavily 
 pixilated waves. Rocky outcroppings, coral reefs, and other obstacles are just as polygonal and 
 badly rendered, but at least the proportions and placements are done well enough. Youll likely 
 appreciate the 2D content more, however. Sonic and Blazes journey will be fraught with tangled 
 vines, giant mushrooms, rusty cities of ruined machines, icy wastelands, and sparkling underground 
 mines. There are some 3D parts laced into the gameplay (Sonic Heroes veterans will recognize the 
 rail grinding on the first level) , but theyre far and in between. Its the little things that 
 make it more satisfying, though. There are few things more awesome than having to race across a 
 bridge as it explodes, pushing your boost meter to its limit in the process. Of course, Sonic 3 
 fans will appreciate the Ice Cap Zone homage, complete with the snowboards and snowy drifts, even 
 more. By the way, the Chaos and Sol Emeralds (aka the powerful gems from the heroes respective 
 dimensions) are back and available for collection. Unlike retro Sonic games, however, you wont 
 have to collect a bunch of rings to access the necessary bonus levels. Instead, you just have to 
 track down Johnny, a shark wanders the ocean aboard his jet ski in search of a worthy racing opponent. 
 Challenging him is really nothing more than another glorified Touch Screen mini game that makes 
 you handle your jet ski with a little more finesse than usual. But even if you dont feel like 
 snagging all of the Emeralds, the game also boasts 100 side missions for you to complete. Theyll 
 usually involve reaching a goal under a certain time limit, performing a set number of tricks, 
 defeating bosses with a single ring, and other surprisingly difficult challenges. However, youll 
 probably spend more time racing other players on the games online racing/ring collection multiplayer. 
 Needless to say, youre going to be busy long after the story is completed.
  
  Well, this is surprising. After churning out so many cruddy Sonic titles, the folks over at Sega 
 have finally come back to their senses and given us a remarkably well-crafted title. Sonic Rush 
 Adventure features the basic fast-paced gameplay mechanics akin to the more retro games in the 
 franchise. The new gameplay features, such as the Trick System and the boost meter, mesh well with 
 the more tried and true aspects. However, the noticeable lack of levels means that youll be replaying 
 many of the same areas several times if you hope to beat them game. Even if they are impressive 
 graphically, there just arent enough of them. Youd think theyd be able to cut out a bit of that 
 3D Touch Screen stuff to make room for more areas. But hey, youve got 100 additional missions, 
 the Chaos and Sol Emerald sidequests, and a competitive online multiplayer to master. Above all 
 else, it plays like a retro Sonic game should. Thats pretty damned good. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: acein12
Rating: 8
Date: Oct 8, 2007 6:10 pm PT
Review:  Sonic Rush adventure came from out of nowhere. Not a lot of people heard about it before it came 
 out. Games like this are usaully bad, but this one is really good.
  
  Gameplay: You can play as two chracters: Sonic and Blaze. Sonic's made to run through the stage 
 quickly and get done, and is also better for killing enemy's. While Blaze is a sightly slower technicain, 
 her special moves are more effective, and a certain stage, she's unaffected by the fire on the 
 ground. You'll probably be useing Sonic more due to speed. It would of been nice to have Shadow, 
 Silver, etc.
  
  This game won't kill your mind as it forces you to moves at highspeeds, but still stop and times 
 and think a little. This may be annoying at times, especailly when useing Sonic. But, it keeps 
 your mind alive.
  
  They stopped the whole start off fast thing and now have a starting pad. Press forward at the right 
 times and you'll speed off; don't and you'll slowly trodd away. Theres also Rush, when in rush 
 you can move at top speed and be invincible. You gain it from defeating enemys and doing tricks. 
 This is the base, good all and all but you can't just speed off, or you'll die very quickly and 
 very much. There are also missions to get sol emeralds and other stuff like medals.
  
  Then theres boats, three boats. A waterbike that'll mostly be used for collecting Choas emeralds, 
 and ship, and hovercart that is horrible, and a submarine. Each boat will be used equally. So no 
 real worries.
  
  So gameplay is great, all it needs are some more chracters.
  
  Graphics: Best on the DS so far.
  
  Replay value: Like most games, it doesn't hold up so good 
 after completion. Missions are repetitve asking you to do the same things over and over.
  
  Thats about it. Be careful, it isn't that long ethier. But theirs tons of missions. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mahmoud-madhoun
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 8, 2007 2:55 pm PT
Review:  2005's Sonic Rush for the DS was a 2D side-scroller that picked up where the already excellent 
 Sonic Advance series left off, injecting a little polygonal flair into the graphics and the gameplay, 
 making smart use of the DS hardware, and generally serving as a bracing reminder of what made Sonic 
 the Hedgehog so great in the first place. At its core, Sonic Rush Adventure offers a very similar 
 experience, filled with an incredible sense of speed, serpentine levels, a variety of gadgets, 
 contraptions, geegaws, and whirligigs for you to fling yourself off of, and rings, rings, rings. 
 What Adventure adds is more structure outside the action, as well as some brief moments of simple 
 3D action. Some of these additions arguably don't add a lot to what made Sonic Rush so great, but 
 they don't take away from it, either. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: omoikane7
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 5, 2007 5:53 am PT
Review:  I am 33 and being that age I still love Sonic. At first I was weary and wondered how they can make 
 the game better on the DS. I was surprised when I first played the game. The graphics are amazing 
 and the game uses the dual screens very nicely. The game might be a little hard for younger kids 
 because as like all Sonic games the game play is fast paced. The audio also kept up to the Sonic 
 name by using the same sounds which I like since I played the original way back in the day :) If 
 you are looking for a game for yourself or your kids pick this one up it will make a great Christmas 
 gift for someone that loves Sonic and even if they do not like Sonic I think they will after they 
 played it just once. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: drummer131
Rating: 8.5
Date: Oct 3, 2007 9:39 pm PT
Review:  GAMEPLAY: 9
  GRAPHICS: 9
  SOUND: 7
  VALUE: 9
  TILT: 9
  
  ROUGH SCORE: 8.6
  FINAL SCORE: 8.5
  
  ----------------------------------------
  
  The Good:
  - nice-looking 
 characters and very detailed levels
  - the fun, never-boring boating minigames
  - the exploration element, both out at sea and within each level
  
  The Bad:
  - Marine, the 
 most embarassingly unstereotypical, stereotypical Austrailian ever imagined
  - only one available gamesave
  
  ----------------------------------------
  
  A preliminary 
 note: This is my first Sonic game. So consequently, I am not used to blazing through platforming 
 levels at the speed of Sonic.
  
  I will say, though, that while I have yet to master the art of zooming through levels in record-breaking 
 times (or accept that I will never achieve a world record-breaking time) , I still very much enjoy 
 the idea and act of going through a level differently each time I play it. It's also cool that 
 in order to get really good times, you have to memorize the levels, inside and out. It's certainly 
 an element of platforming I am not accustomed to, and for this reason, I am more interested in 
 and in love with the game.
  
  As far as the gameplay and graphics are concerned, both aspects of the game are quite solid. The 
 controls react as you want them to, even in the touch screen boating minigames (more on them later) , 
 and the diversity of the levels (more on them later, as well) keeps the game intriguing and exciting. 
 Sonic and the gang look great, as do the levels. The backgrounds are actually surprisingly detailed. 
 If it wasn't for the fact that the levels are meant to be blazed through, I'd actually stop at 
 times to check out the scenery.
  
  The music... is nice. Coming into the game, I thought I wasn't going to like it at all, but much 
 of the music was actually pretty cool. The music of each island corresponds well to the levels 
 themselves, helping to create the atmosphere of each island. The only song I really didn't like 
 was the opening screen / title theme.
  
  I absolutely loved the diversity of the levels... and all the action in each, too! Going into the 
 game, I never expected to get cannonballs shot at me while aboard a pirate ship or to snowboard 
 up ramps and halfpipes and slide down huge icicles or get bounced around by mechanical bongos, 
 etc.! It was just crazy. And of course, the moment the level's over, I want to go do it again! 
 I now know why this game's called Sonic Rush Adventure. You get such a rush from racing through 
 the levels.
  
  The boating minigames are awesome. I never got bored of them. The one I liked the least was the 
 submarine game, but overall, it's still a fun minigame. The only thing I didn't like about the 
 minigames in general was the fact there wasn't really a point to the scores you get for completing 
 a run of a boating minigame. It just feels like they should have some purpose. Granted, the Viking 
 Cup allows you to rack up fast times and high scores, but it's on the same courses. It'd actually 
 be more fun if the scores out at sea meant something as well.
  
  And so now that I've beaten the game, it's not like there's nothing left to do. There's TONS to 
 do! I can upgrade my vehicles, complete all the missions (which range from collecting coins or 
 doing a certain number of tricks in a certain level under a time limit to beating bosses under 
 different conditions) , play the levels again to get all A or S ranks (personally, I'm really just 
 shooting for A's) , do Time Attack over and over and over again, play the Viking Cup (courses for 
 the boating minigames, including the races against Johnny) , get the rest of the Emeralds to get 
 the true ending, etc.! It's just endless. And endless fun, at that.
  
  So to close, here's some final remarks:
  The game never gets boring because the levels and minigames 
 never get boring. There's tons to do and lots of things to discover. That's what makes it an adventure. 
 I would recommend this game to anyone who loves Sonic, anyone who enjoys platformers, or anyone 
 who is willing to give a Sonic platformer a try. This is a quality Sonic game. Take it from someone 
 who just took the plunge. :) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MogFromLeipzig
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 3, 2007 11:52 am PT
Review:  This is a very nice and fun Sonic game. It is rather easy and there are only two of the standard 
 characters in it. So if you did not play any Sonic game until now this game would be the right 
 one to begin with. For Sonic fans it is a must have anyway.
  
  = Content =
  Sonic and Tails somehow manage to get sucked into another world, the world of Blaze the Cat known 
 from Sonic Rush. It is a sunny place in an ocean filled with big and small islands. The 7 big islands 
 are the main stages, each consisting of two large highspeed acts (filled with all kind of mechanisms) 
 and a boss fight. An eighth island contains the final boss. The small islands are tiny extra levels 
 and you do not have to complete most of them to proceed in the story. You do not even have to find 
 all of islands.
  To unlock the islands on your map you have to drive to their position with one of your four ships. 
 To build the ships you collect materials by completing acts or the small extra levels. Most likely 
 you are forced to play through some levels more than once to get the needed materials. Each of 
 the ships is different. There are two ships that are navigated by using the touch pen and there 
 are two ships that are navigated by Tails and you have to shoot enemies with the pen. All ships 
 control well and they contribute to the game experience.
  To acquire Chaos Emeralds you have to race a villain with one of the ships.
  In addition to just 
 playing through the story you can play tons of missions, e. g. collecting a certain amount of rings 
 in a level in a given time period, finding a medal somewhere in the level, doing tricks or just 
 finishing a level in under x min y seconds. By completing the missions you can get Sol Emeralds 
 or unlock music, film sequences or gimmicks for your base island.
  
  = Difficulty =
  This Sonic game is easy. In previous games the later levels are usually hard and you proceed very 
 slowly and carefully. In this game you can rush through them as fast as through the very first 
 level. There are some points where you have to know what to do and you will probably loose some 
 lives figuring it out. But it really could be worse.
  During a stage you cannot save. You have to go through act 1, 2 and the boss fight in a row. If 
 you loose all your lives in the acts you teleport back to your base and are given two new lives. 
 If you think that you need more lives you can go to an easy act and collect 100 rings to gain another 
 live. Unlike in the GBA games lives are saved and are not lost when you turn off the console. If 
 you die in boss fight you can try again as often as you wish without loosing a live.
  
  Also the levels are easy, the races for the Chaos Emeralds and some missions are very hard but 
 since it is only a small part of the game I still rate the game easy .
  
  = Controls =
  The controls are sharp. The levels are interesting and fair, which means you do not constantly 
 fall down somewhere without knowing why.
  
  = Graphics and Sound =
  Both the graphics and the sound are lighthearted and fit very well in the Caribbean looking world. 
 The levels are mainly 2D, the boss fights are 3D. Everything looks just right for a Sonic game. 
 The music is sometimes a bit experimental and it is good.
  
  = Story =
  There is incredible much talk in this game - at least for a Sonic game. But you still don't want 
 to buy this game for the story. It gives your characters a reason to proceed and that's enough.
 
  
  = Multiplayer =
  You can race though every level against a friend. He or she does not need a copy of the game. Well 
 done, Sega!
  I did not try the internet functions but I guess they will not differ much.
  
  = Conclusion =
  A wonderful game. A lot to do. Every level is fun and so are the boss fights 
 (and I generally don't like boss fights) . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: marcustheman222
Rating: 10
Date: Sep 30, 2007 9:39 am PT
Review:  Ahh, Sonic Rush. Basically, the first Sonic, but WAY better! Now the sequel is here and things 
 have gotten more adventurous. Sonic and Tails crash land onto Southern Island and meet the UBER 
 annoying, Marine. In fact, heres a short song about Marine. 'I know a Sonic character that'll get 
 on your nerves!' Marine, that's who! It has a massive simalarity with Sonic Adventures 1 and 2. 
 One, becuase it's sort-of free-roaming. And two, because it has Adventure at the end... Also there 
 are ships! Yes, ships! It can go from 'that arcade speed boat game' to 'House of the Dead without 
 the dead, just by changing ships! Now the levels, MY GOD THERE FAST! Anyway, this is way bigger 
 than New Super Mario Bros. and it's better. Go and buy it now! Just make sure your over 12! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Vexx88
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 26, 2007 5:02 pm PT
Review:  Gameplay-same as last except for the inclusion of the awesome Waterbike/boat missions. The game 
 makes awesome use of the touchscreen in many many ways. Although you still play the same missions.... this 
 time you dont have to play them all twice for each character (Sonic &amp; Blaze) you can choose 
 who you want for each stage. There is also a new rpg style menu element where you can walk around 
 (sort of) and you can do 100 missions some of em which include for instance complete a mission 
 in 1 min in 20 seconds (PS I can only do it in 1:21 so I still have not beaten it lol)
  
  Graphics-Awesome they use the DS's color pallet to the fullest. Although the 3-d cut scenes can 
 be a lot better. Although it is amazing regardless.
  
  Sound- Its sonic an amazing soundtrack as usual.
  
  Overall- If you want something extremely 
 fun to play or your a Sonic fan you have to get this. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Kool_Chao
Rating: 9.5
Date: Sep 26, 2007 6:01 am PT
Review:  This was one of my most anticipated games on the DS (or on any console, for that matter) . And when 
 I finally turned on my DS Lite and saw the title screen my eyes lit up.
  Yes, Sonic Rush Adventure is, in many ways, better than the original. Sonic and Blaze are there, 
 although, this time, in the same story or mode; the trick-system is there, with a new combo system 
 added; the tension gauge is still there. But there are new great levels, an improved sense of speed 
 and the 3D water stages.
  This time, there's an RPG feel to the game as you start off on an island (Southern Island) where 
 you meet Marine, a new character. From there, you'll travel to other islands. You'll travel by 
 sea, which means you'll have the chance to use the 4 vehicles that Tails will build with the materials 
 you'll find at the end of every act. The 3D stages (the water bike being my favourite) let you 
 control said vehicles with the stylus, speeding up, dodging obstacles or shooting down enemies.
 
  Although many people dislike this stages, I believe they provide us with a good side dish and 
 a nice relaxation time from the platforming madness.
  This time Sonic Team will have you chasing down the mean ol'pirates in Blaze's world. But there 
 might be someone else behind the scenes...
  The single player is great, as you have dozens of additional missions to complete to unlock new 
 items, new songs for the sound test and to obtain the Chaos and Sol Emeralds.
  The online multiplayer (for the first time!!!) is also a welcomed addition. You can race other 
 players from all over the world in any of the game's side-scrolling stages or compete to see who 
 can get the most rings.
  Your wi-fi connection also allows you to post your time attack records in the online leaderboards 
 and try to be the best in the world.
  To sum it up, this is a must to all true Sonic fans out there. If you loved Sonic Rush, you'll 
 certainly love Sonic Rush Adventure. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pasxalis1987
Rating: 7.5
Date: Sep 26, 2007 12:34 am PT
Review:  Well, i dont know but i am a bit dissapointed from this game. Maybe its because of the advertising. I 
 was expecting the ultimate sonic game but.... oh well.
  I am not going to repeat the story, i bet that other users are reffering to it, so i am goin to 
 talk about the gameplay.
  I found the difficulity kinda easy. I mean, i was just running forward and thats it. As sonic jumps, 
 you can perforrm tricks to gain points to blast everything in your way in high speed. Thats the 
 same as the previews ds game sonic rush.
  The bosses now, well i didnt find any challenge there too. The bosses are much easy to defeat than 
 the previews sonic game, rush.
  I also found the game a bit short, i dont know why. It might just because i found it easy. There 
 is also a big chat-chat among the heroes, which it might get annoying, but you can skip it by pressing 
 start.
  The music and the soundtrack is awsome!!! Really.
  Now talking about sea and ships, you are collecting material for tails (you collect them by winning 
 each act) , so he can craft you a sea transporter. first comes the seabike with no weapons. after 
 that it builds for you a ship with cannons, machineguns are firethrowing... something. but you dont 
 control the ship, just the weapons. same with the submarine, you just touch the enemies and the 
 submarine fires. i forgot about the hovercraft, which i cant recall what exactly does, but you use 
 it to transport over ice.
  You mark the course on the map with your stylus and the ship just follows the route.
  Well, thats 
 all folks!!! For any questions you can send messeage. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Swordsman761
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 23, 2007 9:38 pm PT
Review:  (GameSpot has been acting up with me a lot today, so I'm so sorry if any of you read the messed 
 up review I've had up before. This is about the best I can do; only a tiny bit of my review is 
 here and I'm very upset. Here it is though, so enjoy.)
  
  Gameplay: (9/10) The gameplay is really fun- all the same classic gameplay like in the previous 
 Sonic games are there (ex. loops and rails and such) , plus new add-ons (the gliders in the metal 
 world, the mine carts in Coral Cave, etc.) . The problem here is when the game gets repetitive- 
 you have to go to islands again and again to gather materials for Tails, and you have to play the 
 same vehicle minigames over and over to explore new islands.
  
  Graphics: (9.5/10) When comparing Sonic Rush with Sonic Rush Adventure, graphics pass with flying 
 colors on Sonic Rush Adventure- 2-D and 3-D graphics are mixed in right where they should be, and 
 it gives the game a nice feel. I also really liked how there were 3-D bosses when any game producer 
 could have made it 2-D, and the mixed in 3-D graphics during game levels were something beyond 
 expectation.
  
  Controls: (9/10) For the simple tasks, such as moving, jumping, and dashing, the controls are excellent; 
 when you want to show off your tricks to fill up your dash meter however, it becomes a little more 
 tricky but sadly vital for goal time missions.
  
  Replayability: (9.5/10) Yes, the levels will get repetitive if you play again obviously, but it's 
 still fun in its own unique way. You also have the 100 missions to beat, extra islands to explore, 
 emeralds to gather, and the Wi-Fi connection ability to go against others (I can't rate the Wi-Fi 
 at this moment since I've only beat the game and played the missions- I haven't gotten to the Wi-Fi 
 part yet) .
  
  Music: (9/10) The music is catchy and is actually bareable to listen to- I personally would give 
 music 10/10 if it wasn't for the fact that the voices for Sonic, Tails and Blaze sounded awful 
 and I was disappointed when the music in the sound test wasn't the exact same for the actual music 
 played in the levels (compare the music from the sound test and the actual music played in the 
 level and try to listen for sounds in the background- it's kind of hard to explain) .
  
  OVERALL: (9.2/10) Sonic Rush Adventure is a really good Sonic game- go out and buy it, even if 
 you aren't a Sonic fan, then just rent it for Pete's sake. The game is just right- not too easy 
 or hard, music is bareable, controls are not too simple but not too difficult, and there are many 
 fun features besides the storyline to play though. Besides the few problems I described above, 
 this is a really good game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: spongefan1
Rating: 9.5
Date: Sep 22, 2007 7:39 pm PT
Review:  Story: Sonic and Tails go treasure hunting and get caught in a storm, causing them to get washed 
 up in an island, where they meet a raccoon girk name Marine who helps them out. In return Sonic 
 and Tails agree to help fix hr ship by gathering these items called materials . Later, they find 
 out that they are NOT on some island, but in a different dimension, Blaze's dimension. They find 
 out about a pirate named Captain Whiskers , who has stolen the jeweled sceptor. Now you must get 
 new materials, friieds, and go on and adventure on the high seas to restore peace by getting back 
 the jeweled sceptor!!!
  
  Gameplay: Like the previous Sonic rush you can perform tricks and run really really fast. The gameplay 
 is fun, there are plenty of obstacles and enemies just waiting for you to get by. Tricks and high 
 jumps will be needed to get past the level faster, but they aren't hard to do. Enemies are well 
 placed and can help you to get to certain places, like the old genesis Sonic games, but I must 
 say that sometimes that items and enemies can be placed in a matter that is hard to land on and 
 or jump on. Jumps, loops, and attacks are all fun to do, just like the old Sonic games. But this 
 game also makes use of the ds' touch screen capabilities with the crafts, its basically a first 
 person shooter sort of thing, that also allows you too steer it. Overall, the gameplay is pretty 
 much old-school, and I like that.
  
  graphics: Graphics are great! Nice, detailed and colorful and enviorments give each level it own 
 fantastic look.
  The 3d grahpics (which you will see during cutscenes and craft stages) are good, they have a nbice 
 touch to them and just like the 2d stages are nice and colorful.
  
  Music: The music is great! each one of these tunes has a nice beat to it, great for a game like 
 this. Effects: The sound effects are also good, when you hit a certain thing, it makes a certain 
 noise, that just fits. Its hard to explain but there all good.
  Voices: I was originnaly intending to import this one, but I just couldn't wait for it. Why cant 
 4kids just go away?!?! Everyone hates them! Sonic sounds dweeby and emotionless, thanks to the 
 utterly abysmal voice acting of Jason Griffith. Blaze sounds sort of okay, but Bella Hudson could 
 use some work. Tails sounds like a girl, and a very high pitched one at that, thanks to Amy Palant. 
 Mike Pollok is a good voice actor, unlike the rest, he could use a little work, but he's great 
 overall, I really dont mind him. I have nothing against the voic actors, with the exception of 
 Griffith, due to the fact that he is an Ahole (excuse my language XD) but I hate their voices.
 
  
  Overall: Sonic rush adventure is a great game, for a Sonic fan or any gamerfor that matter. I suggest 
 that anyone with a DS buys it. I know what your thinking, if its so good why not give it a ten? 
 Because sometimes a little bad item and enemy placement can get very annoying. Also, its sometimes 
 hard to make your map, you sometimes wish you didnt have too XD Honestly I would have given it 
 a 9.8 or a 9.7 but thanks to the fact that gamespot got rid of that thing where you rate the graphics, 
 gameplay etc. making it so that you can plan your final score out better, Icant XD so just pretend 
 its a 9.8
  
  Hope you enjoyed my review ^_^ 
::::::

::::::
UserName: zymn1
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 22, 2007 7:46 am PT
Review:  This game looks like it may become a little revolutionary for the DS. The 3D looks pretty good, but 
 it still looks like it came off of the PS1 or N64. But, it still seems amazing for a handheld because 
 it looks like the 3D was pushed to it's limits. And, the story line looks pretty good. The gameplay 
 looks a little easy, but not much. And, I think I can handle the annoying characters and cut-scenes. 
 I am definitely going to buy Sonic Rush Adventure. (Just so you know that you're reading the right 
 game review.)
  (I also apoligize if this review may seem a bit hard to understand, and how short it is.) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: chocolate1325
Rating: 9.5
Date: Sep 21, 2007 4:41 pm PT
Review:  Sonic Rush was a brilliant title for the DS and it was brilliant classic Sonic with the sense of 
 speed and Sonic Rush Adventure now on DS could it be a great sequel the answer I think it is better 
 than the first.
  
  The Story is during a journey Sonic and Tails plane crashes and they are stuck on an island but 
 meet a friend in newcomer Marine the Racoon. Blaze the Cat is also in the game after about the 
 3rd boss They have to retrive the Chaos Emeralds and Sol Emeralds to get back to their own world 
 but meet new enemies in Captain Whisker who looks similar to Dr Eggman and Johnny.
  
  Gameplay
  
  Well it is like the last one but with more extras and more things you can do. You 
 collect certain materials from different zones to build transport across the water. You also don't 
 go straight to the next zone after that you travel to it by water vechiles which are Deep Typhoon, 
 Aqua Blast, Water Cyclone and a boat that has weapons to attack emenies along the way and they 
 can be upgraded but only after you finish the last level not the extra level. You can find hidden 
 islands in the game. You meet Johnny in a few area but have to search for him to compete for a 
 Chaos Emerald. You use the stylus here to move across and you can draw where you want to go. Also 
 the bosses are way better than Sonic Rush. One of them looks so awesome it reminds of a Special 
 Stage from Sonic 2.
  
  Sound
  
  The sound is decent and some nice music as well for some of the zones.
  
  Graphics
  
  About 
 the same as Sonic Rush it is a beautiful looking game and the level design looks amazing.
  
  Value
  
  The best thing about this game there are over 100 missions to complete 7 of them 
 contain a Sol Emerald which are through battling a boss or on a hidden island. This is the first 
 Sonic game to feature online play. Online play is good but not perfect. You can only choose Sonic 
 or Blaze which is a shame they could have been a few more characters I think but you can compete 
 for the most rings or whoever gets to the finish line first.
  
  Overall it is the best Sonic game since Sonic and Knuckles because it is huge and has alot of replay 
 value. Sonic fans you must get this game it really is that good. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SonicNarutoFan
Rating: 9.5
Date: Sep 20, 2007 5:05 am PT
Review:  This game is absolutely amazing. It is worthy of the original sonic rush and in my opinion a bit 
 better. You not only go through levels but you travel on a jet ski and sail and attack enemys while 
 on the pirate ship looking boat, you also get to roam the island to talk to people play multiplayer 
 and a wi-fi mode. While on the island you can also talk to all the people like Marine ( the new 
 character, she talks a lot but i think shes just perfect for the game.) Theres a whole lot of new 
 3-D effects in the levels and new moves you can use. So this game is simply amazing. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sho565
Rating: 9.5
Date: Sep 19, 2007 3:32 pm PT
Review:  Sonic Rush Adventure is more better then the last game Sonic Rush. Now um thiers alot of new things 
 in this game and the controls are still the same from Sonic Rush. Now you all have been waiting 
 for this game so the thing that amazes peaple when they play in this game is the graphics, gameplay, tricks, 
 and of course the watercraft. While riding on the watercraft you will be able to use the stylus 
 for tricks control and boosting also move the vechiele. It still has the ranking to show how good 
 you are on each stage still the A ranks, B's, and C's. The start of the game isn't hard at all so 
 good for you starters. If your new to the game you can do training so yea better then Sonic Rush. See 
 in Rush Adventure you able to walk and run around with Sonic with the stylus or bottons. The story 
 you have to go through is these islands and you meet new peaple at the start you meet the good 
 guys. I dont know what happens cuz I just got it. Yes thiers still 2 acts to each zones and the last 
 which is the 3rd is the boss battle each boss fits the stage like Plant Kingdom you have to fight 
 a dinosour which fits the forest. Now before you start each stage Sonic will start off with a funny 
 camera angle and just start running after that he'll jump off the big circle and then you start 
 to run. The reason Sonic and Tails are on the island because Sonic and Tails got caought up in a 
 hurricane which got them caought in they crashed. Finally the next morning Sonic and Tails were 
 on a island. As you play through the game you will encounter new things to help you on your quest. The 
 Wi-Fi lets you play opponents over the world randomly. You can even add freinds to your roster to 
 play with either ring race or just a regular race. Yes this game has DS download play and Wireless 
 battle might I add that this is the first Wi-Fi Sonic game in history!!!!!!! Thats a major thing!!!!! 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: KTTE
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 19, 2007 10:46 am PT
Review:  Sonic Rush Adventure is the sequel to Sonic Rush for the DS. It isn't the same as the original 
 as there is a lot more things to do than in the original.
  
  Gameplay (9.8/10) : The best thing about the game is that you get to go overseas (meaning, you ride 
 a bike in the ocean) . The acts are very easy, the bosses are easy. But the thing is, I just got 
 through the first act, so I don't know how hard the rest of the game will be.
  
  Graphics (9.1/10) : They're awesome, but pretty much the same as the original Sonic Rush. They're 
 more on the 2D side than the 3D side.
  
  Sound (10/10) : Awesome sound, music, and everything else. Nome of the sound is bad, even the voices.
 
  
  Controls (8.7/10) : Sonic is kinda hard to control in this game. Same with the bike being hard to 
 control, because the stylus is required.
  
  Replayability (8.5/10) : Since I've just played the game for the first time, I'm not sure whether 
 to recommend it or not.
  
  Overall Score: 9.2 (Awesome) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: benjones1blj
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 16, 2007 12:15 pm PT
Review:  Sonic the Hedgehog has had a rough time recently, with his recent 360 and PS3 outing being a bigger 
 turkey than the one I had for Christmas Dinner last year. Sonic Rush Adventure proves that Sonic 
 is just simply better off in 2D. The game is a sequel to 2005s Sonic Rush. The game features similar 
 platforming stages to the previous game and adds several new mini games which all involve the use 
 of the touch screen.
  
  Gameplay
  The main meat of the gameplay in Sonic Rush Adventure is in its platforming stages. Like Sonic 
 Rush they are in 2D although in some stages the game will flip to a 3D behind Sonics back perspective 
 for brief periods (although they dont last long enough for any dodgy camera work!) . Another feature 
 returning from Sonic Rush is the tension bar and trick system, when Sonic bounces of a spring or 
 is riding a rail he can perform tricks to increase his Tension Bar, this enables him to sprint 
 off at high speed and defeat enemies by touching them. These portions of the game use both of the 
 touch screens to display the stage and the action will move between both screens. The level design 
 has improved as you are less likely to go running into enemies. The boss battles are mostly unchanged 
 from Sonic Rush although they now also use both screens. New to Rush Adventure is the sailing mini 
 games, which are controlled using the touch screen. These control pretty well but in some of the 
 later challenges using the boats can get frustrating.
  
  Graphics
  Sonic Rush Adventure uses a similar style to Sonic Rush in its platforming sections. It uses 2D 
 levels with 3D character models. The graphics in the platform sections are nice looking. The sailing 
 mini games are entirely 3D and show off what the DS can do. The Sonic and Blaze character models 
 look great especially when they are zooming in and out in front of the camera. The enemy designs 
 are also better than Sonic Rush as they no longer use the generic enemies from Sonic Heroes.
  
  Sound
  Sound Rush Adventure features a lot of tropical music to compliment its tropical theme, 
 although the music isnt quite as memorable as the music found in the first Sonic Rush. The sound 
 effect are you usual Sonic fare. One complaint with the sound is that it uses the same voice snippets 
 as the first Sonic Rush.
  
  Overall
  Sonic Rush Adventure is a very good 2D platformer and is probably one of the best DS games released 
 this year. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gareth91
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 16, 2007 8:49 am PT
Review:  Being the crazy sonic fan I am I picked up a copy at my local game score (Duh) . Its now sunday 
 and ive completed the whole including the extra zone. Well first off theres a new charcter Marine 
 the raccon I persanolly dislike her but whenever or not you like her is up to you. The gameplay 
 is the same in the stages with a bit of some new features added the trick system is still there 
 but to get all your trick points you have to press A where sonic or blaze will do one final trick 
 after that you cant do anymore untill you hit another spring or get launched in the air again. 
 The new explore island feture is great you start off with one boat there are 3 more with differnt 
 type of contorls which is a very fun feature to the game. Collecting emrealds is differnt for the 
 first sonic rush. This time with blaze you have to meet certain conditions to get the mission with 
 the sol emreald and with sonic you have to win a race against johhny on your waterbike. Also ther 
 Supersonix level has changed quite alot but im not going to wreck it for you. Also the Music is 
 good but not as good as sonic rush. So to sum things up... The Good: New enimes insted of butnuck; 
 Great new stages with new controls: exploreing in boats is great: Online play and very good opening 
 +storyline The BAd: MArine is quite annoying; Playing 3 stages untill you aqcire blaze; music could 
 have been better; only 1 story not the two seprate one like in sonic rush. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hedgehog_bhoy
Rating: 10
Date: Sep 16, 2007 2:54 am PT
Review:  Sonic Rush saved the Blue Blur, Sonic, from death. Now, in an amazing sequel, Sonic, Tails, Blaze 
 and a new character called Marine the Raccoon, fight against Captain Whiskers. When everybody thought 
 that Sonic Rush was one of the best Sonic games ever made, and that Sonic Team couldn't make the 
 sequel any better, boy were we all wrong!!!
  
  Sonic Rush Adventure sees the hedgehog and his friends fight monsters, other ships and now Sonic 
 has a new rival that thinks he can match his speed! There is also the new extra of being able to 
 go on ships and waterbikes and do tricks, collect rings and fight enemy ships. Looks like Sonic 
 isn't going to go down the tubes after all, especially not with another instant classic of a game! 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Slizergiy
Rating: 9.5
Date: Sep 15, 2007 6:52 am PT
Review:  I was expexcting something very diffrent with Sonic Rish Adventure from the original. What we got 
 was... well I guess the best word would be a supurbe game that realy does justice to Sonic's name 
 .
  
  The game play is grate, the music is awsome, and by how the game is set up, it makes Blaze an ozzie 
 (wll come on! Marien has an australian accent, the royal gard a quarlers. What more evidence do 
 you need!)
  
  There are only 3 minor problems I have with the game. The first is the odd slow downs that happens 
 when a: you facing off against some of the bosses and b: when there are loads of projectiles heading 
 your way on the water levels. The second is the some of the later races against Jonny for the Chaos 
 Emeralds (that, along with the Sol Emeralds are required to get the extra ending) . The dued is 
 impsoibal to beat unless you manage to get it just right (and even then you can win or lose by 
 afew mili seconds) . Of course one can counter the second objection I have with the fact that you 
 upgraded the waterbike after you complet the main story line and so it would probably make things 
 alot easier to get the chaos emeralds.
  The 3rd probelm is that once you have unlocked the Sound Room, you have to complet missions to 
 get access to more music for it (I know, it sucks slightly but hopfully it shouldn't be to difficult) .
 
  
  All in all it is a very good game with a alot more replay value with the extra missions and Wi-Fi 
 mode to challange other players and to see who has the best time in the diffrent zones. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GrimBee
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 15, 2007 4:52 am PT
Review:  Sonic Rush was a surprise hit on the Nintendo DS a few years ago. Whilst most 3D attempts of Sonic 
 games were - questionable - and clearly they did not retain that classic status which Sonic has 
 been known for in his other 2D outings - Sega supported the Gameboy Advance with a series of 2D 
 side-scrolling Sonic games.
  
  2D - it seems, is Sega's d'arc le triumph. Because each 2D Sonic game has been a right blast to 
 play (minus Sonic Battle...) .
  
  On the Nintendo DS however, Sonic Rush introduced some new things into its classic, and somewhat 
 timeless gameplay - TWO SCREEN ACTION.
  
  You could be zipping around, jumping over enemies and things for a few seconds, then, immediately 
 you shoot up into the air from some speed-ramp and suddenly you are following him right up to the 
 next screen.
  At first it can be a bit of a spin-out (in more than one sense of the word) and can take some getting 
 used to - but it offers a sense of dynamics which the series never had before - you could see places 
 to reach on the opposite screen, and then move to that location (for example) . And also you could 
 see enemy targets dropping things down on you from the top screen, which gives you an advantage.
 
  
  Also introduced in Sonic Rush was 3D elements ontop of the already attractive 2D graphics. Whilst 
 some of the animations were not up to the same level of character from the 2D games - they did 
 give the game a bit of graphical depth as the character could then zoom in and out of levels and 
 you would see Sonic get larger and smaller with the perspective changes.
  
  All these kinds of things adds to the thrill-ride experience of the levels.
  
  With Mario games 
 you run and jump on stuff with precision - with Sonic games its all about getting from A to B in 
 the most exhillirating way possible - whether it be grinding off of massive metal structures, firing 
 out of cannons, being shot through the air from some kind of explosion. You never really get the 
 chance to do some sight-seeing in Sonic Rush.
  
  Aswell as the standard layout of the games progression (2 acts per level, and one boss character 
 at the end) you had some catchy music, an extra character to play (Blaze) chaos emeralds to collect 
 via some good 3D special stages controlled with the stylus and a map to see how far into the game 
 you are.
  
  All in all Sonic Rush delivered that sense of speed that was lost in previous Sonic games (except 
 the 2D kind) and introduced some fine 3D elements, making it a perfect celebration of the two dimensions 
 for Sonic.
  
  Now - We have Sonic Rush Adventure! I was a bit sceptical at first - whenever I think of Adventure 
 in a Sonic game, it has always been about half-baked plots, needless cutscenes and exploration 
 and a true lack of action when it was needed the most - so I went into this game with not much 
 to look forward to.
  
  I won't go into the plot of things as its probably best for you to find out yourself as the game 
 progresses (its all part of the fun) but lets say its probably one of the best stories in the Sonic 
 series since ... well... its probably the best story in the Sonic series!
  
  The characters you meet in the game, whilst not physically doing much in the game itself, they 
 serve mostly as posts which you stand next to and converse with - and they pop up in the cut-scenes 
 and things. But half of the game is about moving towards these characters on and on screen map 
 (sort of like a mini RPG like zelda in a way) .
  
  It is the characters that become part of the game this time, and not just there for some extras 
 in a cut-scene. When you start out - you see a picture of an island, and markers on that island 
 of which you can investigate by selecting that point on the map.
  
  You find where the characters you need to talk to easily enough, and once you exhausted some conversations 
 - you just learn more things as time goes by.
  This time they don't just drop you right into the world of Sonic - you have a training level to 
 complete (handy) and most of the time, alot of things which you end up doing - you have the time 
 to practice it. But rarely does the game become THAT difficult that you have to resort to using 
 the training levels.
  
  
  Between the map screen, story and the great presentation - you are treated to some fine 3D elements. 
 And mostly this involves sea exploration on some vehicles that you get your pal Tails to build.
 
  By collecting Materials from specific levels you are able to progress to different parts of the 
 sea - which then unlocks more levels, and more materials.
  
  This may sound daunting at first - but its all part of the fun. You see - sometimes you can have 
 some bizzarre requests for materials, which could send you replaying another boss from another 
 level, or going to a level that you have done before (which is often the case) .
  
  Once you found the island on the map by travelling there by your chosen vehicle - you can simply 
 revisit ANY level or boss and collect more materials if and when you need them from a handy Y button 
 menu which pops up.
  And in the map screen itself in the little rendevous house that the characters stay in - you also 
 get to select other things like time trials, and up to 100 missions which you can unlock and play.
 
  
  Also - you can trade in your rings collected through your level exploring, which you can trade 
 for something pretty to be placed on the map - AND not only that you have 7 chaos emeralds to collect 
 by completing races against an oponent of the sea.
  
  
  Now - back to the sea exploring. It is not slow paced, it does not get boring - so do not worry. 
 At first you have a big blue map infront of you when you select to SET SAIL in the dock area. Then 
 you draw a route with the stylus from one island or checkpoint to another.
  Certain craft can only go certain distances - and each craft has to be built by gathering certain 
 materials.
  
  So the standard act 1 and 2 and then a boss progression is still there - but also you have some 
 reasons to revisit levels because you also have this second part of the game to complete.
  And they go along-side nicely, never do you feel that the sea segments are drowning out the action. 
 The levels are so fast-paced (even more crazy than in Sonic Rush) that the exploration is a bit 
 of a breath of fresh sea-air.
  
  Once you have plotted your destination, you select OK and you set sail! At first you start out 
 with having a jet-ski kind of vehicle - it can only go a small distance on the map - so you have 
 to go to the places you can go to first, complete levels and bosses to get more materials so you 
 can build another craft which can take you further out to sea.
  
  Each craft has its own gameplay to enjoy. So just when you think you are paddling around the ocean 
 in a fishingboat - you are completely taken away with the different things to do with each craft.
 
  The jet-ski is an easy-going level (not that the others aren't) , you press the screen with the 
 stylus and the craft moves forwards quickly, and all you do is drag the stylus left to right to 
 steer the craft.
  You press the L trigger (or R trigger) to boost and smash into objects in your way, you can hit 
 ramps and drag the stylus along the required direction shown to perform a trick - which gives you 
 more boost.
  
  Along the way you collect rings, have items to collect and you are scored accordingly at the end. 
 Each trip with the jet-ski lasts only a minute or two and its over usually before you can get bored 
 of it.
  And once you have visited where you need to go - you can select from a menu to go to the place 
 instead of island-hopping.
  
  But as I said - you can earn certain things and unlock certain things by getting a high score and 
 collecting rings and also going to places in the sea which have not yet been explored - so its 
 not just there as an interesting stocking-filler inbetween levels - it IS part of the game itself 
 and its quite well-done.
  
  Your second craft you can get (once you collected the materials needed - don't worry, in the menu 
 you can see exactly what levels contain what materials and all you need to do is complete those 
 levels and then exit back to the island - of which then you build the craft to go to more levels) 
 is much larger, with a large sail and WEAPONS!.
  
  Getting from a to b is varied with each craft - and it is very entertaining when you see the things 
 you have to do - for example, with the sailboat you can go further distances on the map, slower, 
 but you get to shoot down enemies by touching them and assigning different weapons to kill certain 
 enemies.
  
  Each control-scheme is not fixed to be the same with every craft, but each one offers a certain 
 degree of freedom. Which is always nice as it can change the pace of things for you.
  
  Once that element is out of the way, you have the levels to clear (and fast!) and you have great 
 3d boss battles to play at the end of each level.
  The music in the game has its good and bad points, if you can get passed the la la la, na na na 
 and da de da lyrics of the title screen - then the rest of the music will be amazing for you as 
 it goes well with the levels and the action on screen.
  Some music (like the boss music) can become repetitive - especially when you have to revisit levels 
 and bosses to get more materials.
  
  There are plenty of things to achieve in the levels themselves, higher ranking at the end - fastest 
 times, most rings, trick points and things like that - so usually you can exhaust the game without 
 exhausting everything there is to do in it - this gives the game quite alot of depth than any other 
 Sonic release.
  And couple that with the sea exploration, missions, chaos emeralds and unlockables (and also you 
 can play as Blaze) - there is far more to this 2D side-scroller than meets the eye. And there is 
 more than your fare-share of gameplay to revisit. The story itself could last you about 3 - 4 hours 
 for a person who has played sonic games before. But there is no way you would of achieved everything 
 in that time, the replay value lasts just as long as you would want it to - you can revisit things 
 whenever you like, there is always something to achieve or do. And with wireless play aswell, comparing 
 scores and racetimes makes the game quite deep for what it actually is at its core. Something alot 
 of Sonic games have tried to do before - and failed.
  
  The presentation overall is quite brilliant. Bosses move good, they have quite a good amount of 
 detail to them and the stages. And even the 3D elements in the 2D game itself can be surprisingly 
 good.
  There are some of the best 3D rendered stuff on this game that has ever graced the DS - something 
 else to enjoy with this game. Everything runs smoothly, and even though some things are repeated 
 - it never gets old too fast.
  
  After about an hour or so you will probably want a break from the game itself, but then once you 
 get back on its like a whole new game again, the game is paced in such a way that you can stop 
 at any point (except during levels) save, and then when you continue all the gameplay elements 
 are right there for you to do - that includes wireless battles, sea exploration, clearing missions, 
 time trials and things like that.
  So outside of the standard sonic gameplay - you have this little universe to enjoy.
  
  It really 
 is a must-buy of the year for the DS. And it will probably hold out for you for a long time. Alot 
 of games - once you complete them there isn't much left to go back for. But with Sonic Rush Adventure, 
 there is a massive chance that you will find something that you want to achieve or explore or revisit 
 - whether you are going for special ranks or the best times to show your friends - or just playing 
 it as you like. It is more than just another sonic game, its actually a game you can pick up and 
 play anytime as the different gameplay elements give it much more than the whole 2D racing about 
 gameplay (which is its core) .
  
  
  There ARE some bad points, but they are quite few. I would of hoped that you could play as more 
 characters. Not so much doing the same levels or having the action seperated by silly character 
 levels inbetween - what I mean is that You can play as Blaze - but apart from her physically looking 
 and moving differently - there is really no need to have her there as Sonic is by far the better 
 character.
  
  It would of been nice to of had knuckles or tails as a playable character, and it would of been 
 nice to of been able to team up with a friend wirelessly and use tails' flying skills to lift sonic 
 up to find more unlockables - those kind of things would of given more reasons for wireless activity.
 
  The wireless aspect could of been fleshed out a bit more, especially since the core elements are 
 so great on the singleplayer experience.
  
  The menu system is easy to navigate through so you don't literally need to travel across the sea 
 all the time to visit levels quickly. And you can literally choose to fly through the game or take 
 it more at a leisurely speed - which is why I thought it could of done with a different character 
 which has a greater difference in personality than Sonic. Perhaps some levels can be a bit too 
 hectic for some, so a slower-paced character (much like Mario with his precision jumping and exploration 
 of the levels) could of made the game more appealing to people who are not fans of Sonic.
  
  But if you want Mario - BUY MARIO. If you want the best Sonic game in years - then you need 
 to get this.
  Do not be fooled by the ADVENTURE in the title, its not like previous Sonic games where the adventure 
 was like drinking some sort of toxic-chemical inbetween levels - Sonic Rush Adventure is literally 
 just that.
  
  Sonic - You have one of the greatest videogame characters of all time.
  Rush - The levels are some of the fastest things you ever have played.
  Adventure - You got core 
 gameplay elements which rival any full adventure out there (in terms of entertainment) .
  
  Do yourself a favour and give Sonic a chance with this title :D 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
