-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Sonic Rush
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/ds/action/sonicds/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 Very fast.
 Trick system is a neat idea.
 Great music.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 Not enough differences between the two playable characters.
 Blind jumps and sudden enemy placement force you to memorize level designs in some spots.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Nov 14, 2005
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 8.2
Critic Score: 8.3, 57 Review (s)
User Score: 8.5, 2,663 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Sega
Developer: Dimps Corporation
Genre: 2D Platformer
Date: Nov 15, 2005
ESRB: Everyone

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Sonic Rush adds some moves, but it also stays true to the series' roots as a great side-scrolling 
 platformer. 

  Over the years, Sonic the Hedgehog has gotten away from his roots. What once was an incredibly 
 fast-moving, well-designed platformer series eventually exploded into adventure games, racing games, 
 and the other typical genres that you'd expect from a mascot-type character. While the Sonic series 
 has continued to be popular, many felt that the game was at its peak in those first three or four 
 side-scrollers. Handheld systems have been getting games that have tried to recapture that magic 
 for a few years now, with increasingly positive results. Sonic Rush moves Sonic's 2D adventures 
 over to the DS, and that positive trend continues with a platformer that focuses on raw speed while 
 still managing to do interesting new things, particularly when it comes to the handheld's dual-screen 
 format.  

          Sonic and Blaze aren't that different from a gameplay standpoint.     

  The storyline 
 in Sonic games is usually just enough to set you in motion against the longtime bad guy, Eggman. 
 The Artist Formerly Known as Dr. Robotnik has again managed to get his hands on the chaos emeralds, 
 which he'll be able to use to gain ultimate power... unless Sonic shows up to save the day. The 
 wrinkle here is that there's some interdimensional madness at play, too. There's what appears to 
 be an alternate-dimension version of Eggman hanging around, known as Eggman Nega. You'll also encounter 
 sol emeralds and their protector, the game's other playable character, Blaze the Cat. While Sonic's 
 movements tend to leave behind speed lines and blurs, Blaze's versions of those moves have a decidedly 
 fiery tone to them. You can select either character from the menu to play through the levels so 
 that you can see the story from both sides. Blaze's path through the different zones is a bit different 
 from Sonic's, but the gameplay is roughly identical. Since the story is both brief and told through 
 still frames and onscreen text, you might not feel like playing through the same levels twice just 
 to see how the story pans out.  

  But that's fine, because Sonic Rush is really all about its gameplay. Past Sonic games have been 
 criticized for merely asking you to hold to the right while watching the levels fly by. And while 
 watching the levels' roller-coaster-like designs unfold is certainly a large part of the action 
 in Sonic Rush, the game gives you more to do by adding a few moves. The most prominent of these 
 is a dash attack that you can use to quickly move to top speed, as well as use to bust through 
 most normal enemies. It's a handy move, because the game moves way too quickly for you to stop 
 to think about jumping on enemies. This makes a lot of the game depend on sheer reflex. Can you 
 hit the dash button fast enough to take out enemies before you run right into them and get hit? 
 That's a question you'll be asked multiple times in every level.  

  Occasionally you'll get locked in an area, and you'll have to defeat a set number of enemies before 
 continuing on. Since that's a bit more confined, you can usually just jump on those guys to move 
 forward. Your dash attack is governed by an onscreen meter that drains when you dash but is refilled 
 when you do tricks. Whenever you hit a bumper or are launched into the air by a bumper, trampoline, 
 or other device, you can pound on the jump button to make Sonic or Blaze spin, flip, or do other 
 tricks. Each trick refills your dash meter a bit. There are plenty of opportunities to do this, 
 so you can use the dash attack quite liberally. Each of the two playable characters also has a 
 midair move that you can execute with the R button. Blaze has a midair hover move, while Sonic's 
 midair move is more of a dash.  

  The action is displayed on both Nintendo DS screens, and you'll actually move from one to the other 
 as you play. You'll occasionally get launched up to the top screen, or you might miss a jump and 
 then fall down below. The Sonic side-scrollers have usually been very big on multiple paths, so 
 this doesn't exactly mark a dramatic change for the series. However, it's certainly a good use 
 of the system's two screens. The game's boss fights do only take place on one screen, though. The 
 other screen is used to display the boss's life gauge and a cheerleader character that eggs you 
 on. Sonic gets Tails, and Blaze is accompanied by Cream. The characters talk a bit while you fight 
 the boss, usually saying "almost there" or some other form of basic commentary. The dialogue is 
 awfully repetitive and doesn't add much to the proceedings.  

  The boss fights are your standard Sonic-style boss fights. Eggman's got a bunch of crazy machines, 
 and it's up to you to let them attack -- before counterattacking. The patterns aren't too tough to 
 deduce, and the bosses repeat a bit. But overall, they're good. On occasion, the boss fights also 
 take you out of the regular 2D perspective found in the rest of the game. This gives the boss fights 
 a more unique look. The game also has bonus stages, which take you back to the halfpipe runs and 
 coin grabs found in Sonic 2. If you can make it through the entire track while meeting specific 
 coin quotas and dodging coin-stealing obstacles, you'll win a chaos emerald. You control the action 
 with the touch screen, using the stylus to steer Sonic and tapping enemies to attack them.  

  In addition to the single-player mode, you can also play a two-player race mode that has both 
 players running through the same level at the same time. Power-ups appear in the levels that affect 
 how the other player moves, including items that mess up the other player's controls, slow the 
 opponent down, and so on. You can play this two-player mode with one copy of the game as well. 
 It's a decent inclusion, but it doesn't really add much to the overall package.  

          Sonic Rush uses the two DS screens pretty well.     

  Graphically, the game looks very 
 sharp and moves very, very fast. The speed has been a trademark of the series, and this is definitely 
 one of the fastest-moving games in the line. Sonic and his foes are rendered polygonally, and they 
 look nice. But they don't really show off a ton of character, either. Sonic Rush is a very colorful 
 game, and the stage designs cover plenty of the archetypal Sonic zone themes, including an underwater 
 level, a nighttime bumper-filled course, and an aircraft-carrier-like military tech zone. The audio 
 includes many of the sound effects that have been with the series since the beginning. There's 
 some occasional speech, though not enough to get annoying, which is nice (because it isn't so hot) . 
 The music, however, is really great. The high-tempo, sample-filled electronic tracks have a Jet 
 Grind Radio-like sound to them, and they fit the action really well.  

  Sonic Rush is a great Sonic the Hedgehog game that modernizes the old 2D formula a bit, though 
 without losing what made those games so cool in the first place. While the action between the two 
 characters isn't necessarily different enough to warrant playing through the game twice, anyone 
 looking for a good, strong platformer should have fun with this one.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (277 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: Cloud_765
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 19, 2009 5:59 pm PT
Review:  If you can count on one thing for Sonic: his side-scrolling ventures will be nothing short of awesome. 
 And Sonic Rush adds even more to the Sonic experience that will keep you coming back for more.
 
  
  The sense of speed is unheard of in side-scrolling Sonics, but Rush manages a 10 in that category 
 and COMMANDS it. With the boost system and the constant ability to get boost, you can blast through 
 levels with such speed that you almost forget that you played the level. Each level is packed with 
 all sorts of obstacles that are cleverly placed to give you a chance to pull off tricks to boost 
 that important Tension Gauge.
  
  The graphics aren't the DS's best, but they do well enough. The character models are fairly well 
 done and environments look as amazing as they always have in side-scrolling Sonic games. The bosses 
 especially show how well graphics can go on the DS.
  
  The music is well done. The techno-pop-hip-hop fusion make for addicting tunes. These tracks work 
 well keeping the overall feel of the game light and catchy. The music almost stands by your side, 
 too. Another thing about the music is that is helps, along with the environments, tell a story 
 without words.
  
  The voicework is probably the only blemish on the face of Sonic Rush. Blaze and Sonic's voices 
 are good enough, but Cream and Tails are punch yourself in the face annoying. They utter the respective 
 character's name in almost every sentence. Other than that, though, sound is great.
  
  Sonic Rush is a great game whether you are a Sonic fan, a platform lover, a casual gamer looking 
 for a quick fix, or a anyone looking for solid DS fun. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sagax03
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 21, 2009 9:38 pm PT
Review:  Sonic Rush is a great sonic game thats hard as well....... lets see why.
  
  
  Story-Eggman appears to be at it again... or is he? Eggman NEGA (Doesnt that sound a bit rascit?) 
 appears But then another character called Blaze the Cat is out to seek the chaos emeralds to help 
 her demension. Will sonic suceed in defeating blaze and stopping Eggman NEGA?
  A-Superb-9.0.
  
  Gameplay- It has classic Sonic gameplay thats hard as well, Sonic also has 
 teh new trick system he can perform tricks using the B button in the air when going off a spring 
 sonic has a brand new awsome thing the boost with this sonic can go razor fast , sonic can also 
 move super fast without the boost, its just fast and classic an instant classic. WHich only flaw 
 is taht it can be confusing sometime to go somewhere.
  A-Superb-9.5.
  
  Graphics/Design- These are great Graphics on the DS The 3d can be a bit stiff but looks stunning 
 the boss battles look great , the 2d graphics look good, it really does push the limts on the NDS. 
 thats for sure. 
  A-Superb-9.5.
  
  VA-Bassicly none.
  
  Sound/Music- Just like almost every sonic game excluding Sonic the hedgehog for the GBA the music 
 is great!
  A-Superb-9.5.
  
  
  Multiplayer-Its really fun to just race yer friends.
  A-Superb-9.5.
  
  Overall-Sonic Rush is a fast great and almost flawless sonic game for every 
 one who loves sonic but its not for the casual gamer, its challening yet fun but for teh pre-teen 
 to teen crowd.
  A-Superb-9.5.
  Overall: Superb.
  
  Next Review-Legend of Zelda the Windwaker
  Last review (Heck since i did next im gonna add last)
 
  Last Review: Mario Power tennis. 
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Rinnegan_Fan3
Rating: 7
Date: Mar 18, 2009 5:08 pm PT
Review:  First, this game is not better than Sonic Advance 3. You should rush to the stores and get a copy 
 of that GBA game. It is much better. This game only has 2 characters you can play as, and they 
 play on the exact same stages. It introduces a lavender colored female cat called Blaze. She has 
 pyrokinesis. She is from an alternate dimension/parallel universe and she can utilize the power 
 of the Sol Emeralds. Her enemy in her universe is Doctor Eggman Nega, Eggman's counterpart in the 
 parallel uninverse who is much more insane and diabolical. That is basically an intro to the story. 
 She has great jumping abilities. To get the Sol Emeralds simply beat the boss of the 7 zones. To 
 get the Chaos Emeralds you have to use a warp wheel with energy from your tension gauge. It takes 
 you to a mini-stage that gradually gets harder to defeat. It is easier than Sonic Advance 3's mini 
 stages, as you simply guide your character with your touch pen left and right. The soundtrack in 
 the game is good, basically remixing the music from act 1 into act 2. The bosses are all easy, 
 when you get the hand of the controls. The only one that may cause you frustration is the bird 
 machine that the Eggmen use. I give the game a 7.0, because it could've had more characters after 
 the story was completed, as well as a greater time value. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: macabre190788
Rating: 8
Date: Feb 15, 2009 12:53 pm PT
Review:  Look, there's no reason for me to go through the blue hedgehog's history. We all know that 2D Sonic 
 games are brilliant, 3D? not so much. But the 2D games, I love them, I always have. And now I'm 
 happy to say, Sonic Rush is a lot of fun. It's fast, callenging and with great boss battles. It 
 also looks gorgeous, and the music is very cool. Though I still prefer the classic, charming 16-bit 
 tunes. So you start the first level, after about three seconds you feel instantly at home. The 
 sense of speed is brilliant. Your character shift between the two screens every now and then, and 
 that's cool. You just got to pay attention. You can also play as another character called Blaze, 
 who is a cat. But I never tried to play as her. 
  
  The game IS challenging, and yes, you WILL run into enemies and lose precious rings. You can't 
 just hold down the "right" button and hope for the best. There were very few, come to think of 
 it. I think I only cleared three level acts without dying. I got used to seeing the words "Game 
 Over" over and over again. But eventually you memorize enough to clear the levels. Yeah, like this 
 is the first Sonic game where you have to memorize levels. Come on. But I would be lying if I didn't 
 say it got frustrating in parts. The bosses are just awesome, really fun, but very easy to beat
 
  
  They should make more Sonic Rush games, or at least more 2D Sonic games. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Ult_Kakuzu
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jan 24, 2009 11:38 am PT
Review:  I've owned/own the Sonic Advance series games, Sonic Battle, and the Sonic Rush series games. Sonic 
 Advance 3 is the best in my opinion. First, it has an unbeatable soundtrack compared to the others 
 I just listed. Second, more characters and more challenging. Third, gameplay is just simply alot 
 more fun. Last, what do you think? Now back to Sonic Rush. Sonic Rush has a good soundtrack, which 
 isn't surprising since most Sonic Series games have excellent soundtracks. The game introduces 
 a new character called Blaze. She is from another dimension than Sonic and is a princess. Her world 
 contains the Sol Emeralds. I won't give away the story. The game has you playing as either her 
 or Sonic through 7 zones. You get Chaos Emeralds through special stages, and Sol Emeralds by defeating 
 each Zones' boss. As usual, there is a final boss and an extra boss. The final boss in this game 
 is awesome, and I love the sound effects that happen if you hit the boss at the right time after 
 it attacks. The game is not very difficult as compared to Sonic Advance 3. I recommend that you 
 get this game or Sonic Rush Adventure if you want an enjoyable Sonic handheld game and cannot find 
 Sonic Advance 3. The game isn't disappointing, and I hope you enjoy it as much as I do. I still 
 play if from time to time. Lately, my main interests are Gamespot and Sonic & the Secret Rings, 
 another awesome Sonic game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kjhg53
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jan 19, 2009 7:06 pm PT
Review:  There is a bit of back story in it and it agos like this. Sonic is running through a stage and 
 at the end of it the good old Doc pops out. Back out to his old ways the Doc has a new plan to 
 not only take over the world but another world as well. Sonic soon meets up with a cat that has 
 a bit of a problem gettign help from people. There are only two playable people in the game Sonic 
 and Blaze the cat. There is no real point in playing as both because they play the same and have 
 all the same stages. Only differences are Blaze doesn't have Sepcial Stages and has fire trails.
 
  
  
  
  Gameplay: 9
  
  
  
  This game has it all, loops, springs, underwater play, and hag gliders. And like I said before 
 it doesn't matter who you play as you get all the same stages. The Special Stages are set up like 
 in Sonic 2 in which you are on a half pipe coruse and try to grab rings while dodgeing bombs or 
 enemies. The game also addes a speed bust move where you blast at high speeds, helping you take 
 out the robots that pop out of nowhere in the levels. To refill you can pass a check ponit, kill 
 a robot, or when in the air after hitting a bumper you do a trick or 12. The game also doesn't 
 just use one screen but two. So you'll be looking up, down, and backwards while playing this game. 
 The only time it's down to one screen is during a boss fight. The Boss fights are good fun but 
 hard.
  
  
  
  Graphics: 9
  
  
  
  The grahpics are not just 2D or 3D, they're both. King of werid at first but once you jump into 
 a stage you'll be running down a 2D stage then out of nowhere you go 3D. The layout of the levels 
 are also done very well with lots of colors and details. Boss fights are in 3D as well and look 
 great.
  
  
  
  Sound: 8
  
  
  
  This game also has some upbeat music to it. In fact the music is enough to make you want to run 
 fastter. Only bad thing about song of the songs is that they have some wired voiceing to is. Other 
 then that the songs are just fine. The voice acting is alright which is good because it's limited 
 to almost nothing.
  
  
  
  Speed: 8
  
  
  
  Fast is the name of the game. You can move ever fastter then you need to with the new speed bust 
 system. But that's only for s short time. One thing that will slow you down is hag gliding, river 
 rideing, and takeing a ride on a launcher which takes some time to start up. The only othe rthing 
 that will slow you down in random enemies that you can't see while going at full speed.
  
  
  
  Overall: 8.6 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kevin091
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jan 6, 2009 2:04 am PT
Review:  Released in 2005, you'd expect this game to be one of those really bad stinkers you'd find in regular 
 consoles. Fortunately for series fans, this game reminds everyone why Sonic is still popular in 
 the first place.
  
  With Dimps once again taking the reins on this 2D platforming adventure from the GameBoy Advance 
 to the Nintendo DS, it's a no-brainer that the game would be what Sonic really is about: speed 
 and fun.
  
  Like the extremely popular New Super Mario Bros. coming after it, it models the characters in 3D 
 and the environments are in 2D with some 3D elements thrown in the mix. And like that other game, 
 it works extremely well. The character models look good, and the environments are extremely colorful 
 and varied.
  
  The action however, unlike that other game, occurs on both screens instead of only on top, and 
 the developers utilize both screens to nice effect (as well as giving you a bit of a heads-up on 
 whether there's an enemy above) .
  
  But the thing that matters most in a Sonic game is the speed, and the game delivers on that promise 
 as it introduces a mechanic that makes the blue blur even faster- a dash attack. While you can 
 dispatch enemies by jumping, you'll have to slow down to see them, thus the dash attack removes 
 all that and lets you enjoy adrenaline-pumping speed continuously throughout the level. This dash 
 attack doesn't last very long, however, as there is a limit to how long you can do it indicated 
 by a meter on the left side of the screen. You can fill up this meter, easily enough, by mashing 
 the B button mid-air, and this causes Sonic (or Blaze) to do tricks. This system is rather addicting, 
 and you'll want to rack up the points and maintain the dash attack's limit.
  
  Other than that new mechanic, it's all a return to roots for Sonic in this considerably successful 
 entry in the series. It goes back to the magic of the Genesis Sonic's, while managing to keep the 
 whole experience fresh and exciting.
  
  But then again, there's also the way it handles Multiplayer. Regardless as to whether the other 
 DS has a copy of the game or not, the game lets you select from all the stages available in the 
 game (as long as you have played it in the single player campaign) for multiplayer play. And unlike 
 that other mascot's game, it also loads extremely and relatively quick even if the other DS doesn't 
 have a copy of the game. This is an approach to Download Play that I extremely like, and also a 
 factor that makes it addictive for me.
  
  Unfortunately, there are a few cons that keep the game from getting a perfect score. While this 
 is personal preference, I think the game's music is rather grating. While not enough to make you 
 throw the DS to the wall, it's still pretty annoying. And then there's the random placement of 
 enemies on the stage. While there are power-ups that make you invincible to them, it's only occasional 
 as the game expects you to use your Dash attack regularly. It does make sense, but in the first 
 playthrough, you'll simply find this fact annoying. And then there's the button-mashing you'll 
 have to endure in some bosses. There are times when you'll have to alternately press the A and 
 B buttons just to win a boss battle. OK, perhaps this is just a way for us to feel more rewarded 
 when the boss is defeated (and a way to put a bit more variation) , but in my opinion, it's more 
 annoying that way.
  
  Overall, the game is still top quality, and I recommend a purchase, not only for Sonic fans but 
 for platforming fans everywhere too. Of course, there's the more recent Sonic Rush Adventure (which 
 is also excellent) , but that's for another day (ie, when I finish it) . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Loshgr
Rating: 3
Date: Jan 3, 2009 6:44 am PT
Review:  This game was just pure frustration. Sure, everyone says its brilliant, but frankly, I just don't 
 understand. The game is ruined by impossible to dodge enemies that you can't see in time when you 
 are running at full speed, which is nessesary anyway. This is so infuriating as after leaping across 
 a massive pit, only to hit an enemy and loose all of your coins for the umteenth time, you start 
 to ask, why bother? This isn't the worst point, no the worst thing is that some of the jumps which 
 the game expects you to do are just impossible. This is poor level design and make the whole game 
 pointless. 
  On the plus side, the game has good graphics and the music is ok. The controls are also well designed.
 
  If you are good at this sort of thing then go for it and check out the other reviews but for more 
 casual gamers, borrow it first. Don't waste your money buying this game if there is no way of ever 
 comleting it. I struggle with the 2nd level so and the 1st boss is a nightmare. But don't let this 
 review put you off, read the other reviews first. You may enjoy it, but not everyone would. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Jakeiiii
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 20, 2008 1:09 pm PT
Review:  If you liked all the first 2D Sonic games then no doubt you will love this game. It's just enjoyable 
 in everyway, fast levels, different characters with equal abilities,3D bosses and those complex-ish 
 special stages.
  
  Story = 8
  Although I have to admit the story was well planned out, it was too childish for me, it being about 
 having friends and all and being happy. The story wasn't right for me but probably was enjoyed 
 by younger players, luckily this didn't interfier with the game itself.
  
  Gameplay = 10
  Perfect in every way, the controls are always on time and really make it feel like a good old Sonic 
 game. The levels are played using the directional pad and the a/b buttons for jumping. Thanks to 
 dimps the speed of this game is increased when you press the x button. You go into a high speed 
 barrier lasting on the amount of rings you have. The special stages are like those tube ones from 
 Sonic 2 where you would use the stylus to move Sonic left, right and jump, and occasionally do 
 like a 'touch the buttons in the right order' thing.
  
  Presentation = 10
  The levels can't be made badly in this type of game, you throw in a few ramps, loops, a lot of 
 rings, an ambush every now and then and about 2-3 3D areas in a level. The bosses are very well 
 made and are probably the most difficult bosses any Sonic game has ever had.
  
  Lasting appeal = 9
  This isn't a very long game and thats a real let down, there isn't much to 
 come back for apart from A-ramks and the famous time-attack. The game only has about 8 levels with 
 two acts each and an extra level or two at the end. The fact that this game was so good, I was 
 dreading the day when I would complete it.
  
  (the rest of this review does not count towards the final score)
  
  Graphics = 10
  Apart 
 from the characters, enemies and bosses this game is entirely 2D, and it looks really good, also 
 some parts of the levels will be 3D obstacles. The 2D graphics work really great and look like 
 they where on the Wii, the 3D character models are the best on the DS and work really well for 
 the game.
  
  Voice acting = 10
  This is really pointless as the cutscenes are 2D with speach bubbles and the only voices are a 
 few expressions and on the songs. The voices luckily work well on it all so it deserves a 10 funnily 
 enough.
  
  Overall = 9.5
  A great Sonic Adventure to play for EVERY Sonic fan as everyone will like it (not on the story though) . 
 It's the story's fault that I didn't give it a 10 but other than that it's perfect!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gggames_se
Rating: 8
Date: Nov 24, 2008 12:45 pm PT
Review:  The notorious Eggman is back with his standard share of mischief. Sonic the Hedgehog is on the 
 scene at no time, toe to toe with the menacing presence of the mad man. Eggman is, before he knows 
 it whacked into submission and forced to retreat  but on his way to safety he drops a strange 
 looking emerald  not quite like the legendary Chaos Emeralds. Sonic approaches to pick the thing 
 up but before he does, it's snatched from under his nose! It appears that a mysterious cat-like 
 character is after these emeralds. Now Sonic has a new problem on his hands  what's going on!?
 
  
  Sonic Rush is the first Sonic game to appear on the Nintendo DS hand-held console. It builds heavily 
 on the basic and well known Sonic formula; A lightning fast platform game where you run around 
 on a level, starting at point A and trying to reach point B. As such, the game is a pretty standard 
 side-scrolling platform game with a few quirks mixed into it. Sonic the Hedgehog is rendered in 
 3D this time around, but the game still is built on a flat 2D space, with the exception of the 
 boss fights which all utilize the exciting third dimension.
  
  As well as having the novel experience of playing Sonic on a portable device, you'll also be introduced 
 to the new mysterious character to the Sonic universe named Blaze the Cat. Before you start playing 
 the singleplayer storymode, you'll be prompted to choose whether you want to play as Sonic or Blaze. 
 They both start at different locations in the world as they both are looking for Eggman's whereabouts 
 and the emeralds known as Sol Emeralds. In practice this means that there are two parallel stories 
 going on at the same time, and they intertwine with one another.
  
  In total there are eight zones to play in, and each zone except the last one consists of two acts 
 and a boss act. The acts in turn are huge and have many secret and alternative paths  it's quite 
 breathtaking to be speeding around in a level that's so open in every direction. During the course 
 of the game you'll be visiting many entirely new locations such as the Night Carnival (that reminds 
 us about the Casino Night Zone in Sonic the Hedgehog 2) , and the lush Leaf Storm Zone.
  
  Sonic and Blaze will visit the same areas, but in a different order. Depending on who you play 
 as, you'll be able to reach different areas and paths in each of the zones thanks to their different 
 moves  Sonic is fast, but Blaze can spin up into a flaming tornado and briefly float in the air 
 thanks to this. You might think that this is a cheap way to add length and replay value to a mere 
 eight zones, and I partly agree. But at the same it works well with the story and seeing the levels 
 are so big  you really need to see them to know what I'm mean  they really offer many paths and 
 you'll keep discovering new secrets and alternative routs even on your tenth time through.
  
  Not only are the levels filled with trampolines and devices that allow you to perform all-new 
 kind of stunts and jumps, but you've also been granted a so-called "tension gauge". This is a special 
 feature to measure your character's tension. This is shown as a gauge that builds up when you hit 
 enemies, for example. The bars fill up very easily, so most of the time you don't really have to 
 worry about it. This "tension" can be used to perform a special move called Super Boost (Fire Boost 
 for Blaze) that gives you an insane burst of speed. So to maximize your time records, you'd need 
 to balance your game between finding the fastest possible path through each of the levels, fighting 
 enemies, and bursting away with Super Boost. This is a prime example of a new feature that really 
 works well and could easily be implemented into future Sonic titles to add new layers of depth 
 and excitement.
  
  There are other minor new features included too, such as the ability to do tricks. You can perform 
 tricks in the air or while grinding on rails, and the more tricks you pull off the better your 
 score will be. Tricks can also be used to build up your tension gauge. Sonic Rush also lets you 
 swing in ropes and bash through walls.
  There's also the hidden special stages where Sonic is rushing down a pipe and he is seen from behind, 
 just like in Sonic the Hedgehog 2. These stages are played by controlling Sonic with the stylus 
  and these are the stages where you can collect the seven Chaos Emeralds, and potentially unlocking 
 the ultimate power of Sonic!
  
  One thing that certainly sets Sonic Rush apart from previous Sonic titles is the level of difficulty 
 that Sonic Rush has. In Sonic Rush, more than ever will you have to worry about how many lives 
 you've got left, because there are deadly pitfalls all over the place. Sadly, there's only one 
 way to find out where these instant-death-chasms are, and that's the inevitable hard way  that 
 is to say falling into them. Once you've found one such chasm, you have to memorize where it is, 
 and how to avoid it, of course. But that is no easy task because of the size of the levels. It's 
 nice to have a tricky challenge ahead, but if you can't even hope to beat it, even after a few 
 sincere tries, it can feel daunting and discouraging to force oneself through the same level many 
 times in a row.
  
  They've really put effort in the boss fights as well  they're all unique, look horrifying and 
 require special tactics. As mentioned the boss fights utilize the third dimension. The boss fights 
 typically takes place on an arena, and in Sonic Rush the camera can rotate and revolve around you, 
 often to allow you to react to some new danger Eggman throws at you. It all makes for even more 
 engaging boss fights, and it's a perfect surprise to pull on an unsuspecting player to cause that 
 "wow" effect. And it certainly works.
  
  After each stage you'll be ranked on how well you performed in terms of time, rings and amount 
 of tricks performed. Thanks to this you can keep trying to beat your score on each of the stages 
 - you can revisit a zone as many times you want after you have beaten it once.
  
  On top of the core singleplayer mode sits a multiplayer mode known as "Battle play". You can play 
 four of the games fourteen acts against a friend using single card play, but you need to play multi-card 
 to be able to compete on the rest of the stages. The Battle play is all about Sonic and Blaze competing 
 to reach the end of the level. When racing against another player you'll be able to bump into each 
 other, and with a press of a button you can push yourself forward with the help of the rival.
 
  
  The graphics in Sonic Rush are good and cute. It's not a huge step forward from previous 2D Sonic 
 titles, even though there's use of 3D characters. The 3D characters are well done, and assumes 
 a cell-shading look, which suits the theme and style well enough. The only problem with 3D characters 
 used this way is that they can look a little grainy and flickery when viewed at a distance, thanks 
 to the resolution of the DS screen.
  The dual screens of the DS is used in a clever way. You'll be running around on both screens, as 
 you switch which screen your character is on at certain locations. It looks very natural when it 
 happens and adds to the feel that there's much going on and that the stages are huge.
  The game also has some notable slow downs in terms of framerate, which of course deducts from the 
 illusion of high speed running, but it doesn't interfere much at all with the actual gameplay experience.
 
  
  Musically Sonic Rush really takes a bold step. The musical theme through the game is incredibly 
 funky and insane. It's hard to describe  you really need to hear it (which can be done through 
 the Sonic Rush website) to know what I'm talking about. It's very upbeat, fast and catchy, drawing 
 influences from most every musical genre there is, but mostly from drum 'n bass, funk, hip-hop, 
 house and the likes. If you're familiar with the music in Jet Set Radio, you'll instantly recognize 
 the unique style as this is the work of the same composer. The music and sound is very unparalleled 
 and gives the game much of its fresh and cool style. Each zone has its distinct songs, but they're 
 all of the same high standard  nice.
  
  Sonic Rush is an intense experience. There's a lot to do and to discover in the game but because 
 of its many unforgiving traps, it can be incredibly annoying at times. Because of this, Sonic Rush 
 is best experienced in short bursts with long breaks. It certainly is an impressive addition to 
 the Sonic franchise, and it is a total blast to play. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: megamannt123
Rating: 8
Date: Sep 24, 2008 2:29 pm PT
Review:  Well I wanted this game because it had sonic in it. But man, it turned out to be a lot of fun! 
 This 3-D/2-D
  version of the original really had some extras that the originals didn't. 
  
  First, the story is interesting. You have sonic of course, going through the stages, collecting 
 chaos emeralds and progressing the story. You fight a boss at the end of the second stage, but 
 the boss and environment are 3-D! Pretty cool twist I think. The main stages are mainly 2-D, but 
 the characters are 3-D like on the gamecube. Then, you have mysterious blaze the cat, who is the 
 guardian of the Sol Emeralds fighting a second eggman! (play the game, you'll see) . Her stages are 
 the same as sonic's mostly.
  
  The graphics are very well done for a sonic handheld.
  The environments are fresh and the music is pretty catchy at times. You can dash through loops, 
 run down hills, and when you go high enough in a stage, you transfer gameplay to the top screen 
 automatically. Same goes for if you go far enough down in the stage, gameplay swithces to the bottom 
 screen. Very clever!
  
  Only problem is sometimes you go too fast and bump into enemies without time to react, and some 
 of the last levels are hard but those are the only downsides.
  
  I would recommend this game for people who like simple, but fun and fast games. Enjoy! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: AweWiiGamer1
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 14, 2008 8:11 am PT
Review:  Sonic Rush is arguably one of the purest Sonic games ever. Sonic Rush is everything we love about 
 Sega's popular blue hedgehog, and more. Sonic Rush resurrects classic Sonic gameplay: side-scrolling, 
 with chaotic, hectic and speedy action. Except, do not expect to run Sonic on one path, expect 
 him to run on two. Sonic Rush is classic Sonic, and a pure old-school love letter to Sonic fanboys 
 everywhere.
  
  Sonic Rush treadmills on familar Sonic ground, which is a thin predictable plot. The game opens 
 when a newcomer to the Sonic franchise named Blaze The Cat, lands in Sonic's world and she is hunting 
 for the Sol Emeralds. Sonic then tells Blaze that they have been kidnapped by the iconic Dr. Eggman, 
 and Blaze has been told by Cream the Rabbit that the Sol Emeralds are linked to an impending doom 
 in the world of Sonic. It's up to either Blaze or Sonic, to find the Sol Emeralds and save the 
 world. If you play this Sonic game for it's storyline, you may want to return to Shadow for the 
 story, but Sonic Rush tells it's story by polished voice acting, and through a stylistic art panel 
 to make it's otherwise fluffy narrative seemingly forgiving.
  
  Sonic Rush's gameplay is where the game truly shines. Sonic Rush is classic Sonic, as you race 
 through levels set in a linear pathway structure, at a relentlessly high mileage of speed. Sonic 
 Rush makes a well and truly fantastic use of the touch screen feature of the DS, as you have plop 
 down to lower stages on the bottom screen, and stay at the top for some other puzzles. Sonic Rush 
 makes great use of the touch screen, by adding a sense of stratedgy to the feature and as an alternation 
 to the core Sonic gameplay.
  
  Sonic Rush contains music that is catchy, zippy and inspired throughout the whole gaming experience. 
 The music is simplistic, yet symbolic of the high speed of the Sonic characters. The catchy medley 
 of: "Right There: Ride On" could of not have been better composed for the game. The OST to Sonic 
 Rush comes in a variety of styles, and is unispired, and is executed smartly to make it a pleasure 
 to listen to.
  
  Sonic Rush is truly a super Sonic masterpeice, but does comes with a few flaws, which do weigh 
 the game's greatness down. Sonic Rush suffers from considerably clunky placements of the two screen 
 DS feature. Sometimes it can come at either uneeded segements, or just at times when you are just 
 not ready. For that reason, you can loose your rings incredibly quickly, and for that reason, die 
 much more quickly. This adds bouts of fustration to this seemingly great game. Sonic Rush has voice 
 acting which is cool enough in the cutscenes, but when Tails begin to speak, as with Amy, Sonic 
 Rush immediately distracts you from the fake voice acting from these minor characters. Sonic Rush 
 does suffer from confusing level design at times, where deaths are much more apparent because of 
 it. Sonic Rush also suffers from a lack of control of Sonic's high speeds, and underwhemingly easy 
 boss fights.
  
  Overall, Sonic Rush is a true fan's dream of the beloved blue hero, and makes Sonic great again, 
 but high quality style, gameplay and speedy action. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Aires457
Rating: 8.5
Date: Sep 10, 2008 9:32 pm PT
Review:  Sonic Rush for the DS took me back to the old days when I played the 2D sonic games On the Gameboy. 
 It's not the best of sonic games but it sure was a fun one. The addition of blaze and the other 
 world made the plot line fun and interesting. Also the unique controls were fun like blaze's ability 
 to use her jet shoes to glide or boost herself upward. The characters balance out like if you need 
 a fast character you would choose sonic and if you needed a gliding boosting character you would 
 choose blaze. A few things were missing from this game like playing as tails or knuckles or even 
 cream. The multiplayer was fun and I always love a ds download play multiplayer. The final battle 
 is really hard and if you're a sonic fan you'll love the end where you play as golden sonic and 
 this kind of shiny pink super blaze. I would only recommend this if you like 2D sonic games. If 
 your not a fan then this game really won't be that great. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ShadowSonic20
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 24, 2008 2:56 pm PT
Review:  Back in the 90s the Sonic the Hedgehog games were known as some of fastest and coolest 2D platformers 
 around. However in more recent years on the newer consoles, the franchise hasnt quite made the 
 transition to 3D that many fans had hoped for. When you transport the games into 3D you have to 
 worry about things like cameras, and dynamic level design in the new dimension. Since the release 
 of Nintendos new handheld the DS, Sonic Team has decided to take a step back and bring us an oldschool 
 style Sonic platformer on two screens.
  
  All of the Sonic games have been known for their cartoonish yet just slightly cool visual style 
 that has permeated throughout the characters, levels, and storylines. Sonic Rush is no different. 
 But where the more recent console games have tried to give us somewhat complex (and sometimes ridiculous) 
 storylines with dialogue and many cutscenes with many characters involved, Sonic Rush brings us 
 a plotline that is actually a little bit simpler and doesnt really try to play a huge part in the 
 game.
  
  Once again you are chasing Eggman but you must also fight his mysterious look-alike called Eggman 
 Nega as well as collect the Chaos Emeralds and the new Sol Emeralds. The rest of the plot has something 
 to do with the tearing of the space time continuum, but the details mostly end there. The whole 
 story is told pretty much completely through text-based dialogue that, while not necessarily too 
 long, I should be able to skip through faster.
  
  Like all Sonic games, Sonic Rush takes you through different environments, each one based on a 
 separate theme, usually starting out with the green forest-like stage, which is followed by water-themed, 
 sand-themed, carnival-themed, and mechanical-themed stages as well as some others that should be 
 familiar to anyone whos played Sonic games before. These stages have all pretty much been drawn 
 and designed the same way since 1991 and theres no complaint here for keeping it up in Rush.
  
  This game also includes some very simple voicework, probably from the same actors as the console 
 games but either way its really not that spectacular, and I could really do without Tails/Cream 
 trying to cheer me on during every boss battle.
  
  The music presentation in Sonic Rush actually takes a turn from what we heard in the recent Sonic 
 Adventure and Sonic Advance games. The soundtrack in this game was composed by Hideki Naganuma, 
 who is largely known for his music in Jet Grind Radio for the Dreamcast, which should appease some 
 Dreamcast fans (such as myself) as well as fans of Naganumas music. While I dont think this games 
 music is really as good as the tracks from the old Genesis games, it still fits the Sonic brand 
 excellently.
  
  As far as visuals go, Sonic Rush looks largely the same as the old Genesis games and even more 
 like the recent Advance games with backdrops and objects rendered the same. Though they might have 
 been given a little extra detail due to the DSs hardware capabilities which in my opinion puts 
 the games 2D visuals on the same level as maybe Castlevania, which is not a bad thing to say at 
 all.
  
  Whats really nice about Sonics first DS entry is the 3D effects added in. Back on the Genesis, 
 games like Sonic 3 were known for their use of Mode 7 technology and pseudo 3D effects, which kinda 
 helped push the envelope for what people would see in sidescrollers of the time. Sonic Rush sort 
 of brings that back as it takes its 2D backgrounds and sprites and puts them together with the 
 3D character models and effects. Sonic and Blazes character models, as well as certain special 
 obstacles and all of the boss battles are in full 3D. While not quite up to the standards of the 
 3D models in the console games, Sonic Rushs 3D graphics are effective and actually look impressive 
 for the DS platform.
  
  This is especially true for the boss battles which are presented in full 3D. Part of this is due 
 to the games use of cel-shading in its 3D graphics engine, which, coupled together with clever 
 rendering of some of the backgrounds during boss battles, actually suits the DS platform and this 
 game quite well. One of the best parts is that it all runs on a silky-smooth framerate. After playing 
 through this game I can already see that cel-shading will probably be used on the DS very often, 
 as it can give some of the games a significant graphical boost.
  
  In the past, Sonic the Hedgehog games were always associated with pure speed mixed with some clever 
 platforming to create rollercoaster-like levels. In some of the more recent console games however, 
 this started to get bogged down with the inclusion of many new playable characters and with them, 
 different gameplay styles that many did not see as being as inspired and well developed as the 
 pure speed of the original Sonic Style. In this respect, Dimps has decided to take a bit of a step 
 back and put players through stages that, while feel very much like Dimps own Sonic Advance games, 
 have a bit more of a Genesis feel with only two playable characters instead of six or twelve.
 
  
  The two playable characters in the game are Sonic the Hedgehog and a new character called Blaze 
 the Cat. Overall each character is almost completely the same when it comes to controls and maneuvers. 
 But each of them does have different animations for their moves and some of Balzes moves play out 
 a little differently than Sonics. While this new character doesnt do anything to crowd Sonic Rush 
 like some of the other games had been with past new characters, it would have been great to play 
 through the game in two styles that were a little more different.
  
  Many of the moves that the characters do have however are pretty neat and a lot of them are brand 
 new to this game. In addition to the familiar spin dash and grind maneuvers, there is also the 
 sort of mid-air dash attack from the Sonic Adventure games, which in Sonics case has been transformed 
 into a kick. Also new to Sonic Rush is a rudimentary trick system. While you are grinding on a 
 rail or in the middle of the air, you can press a few simple button combinations in order to make 
 your character do tricks to receive points. When tricks are pulled off, they also help push up 
 whats called the Tension Gague, which is a sort of trick meter that works very much like the uber 
 trick gague in SSX. When you perform tricks, it goes up, when you dash with the X or Y button it 
 depletes the gague. If you get it up to the top and keep performing tricks you can dash as much 
 as you want without having it go down as much. Although the trick system in this game is quite 
 simple and can get a bit repetitive, it actually shows a bit of potential for the franchise. Trying 
 to take high-speed platforming and merging it with trick-based gameplay could end up a promising 
 endeavor
  
  Another thing that Sonic Team has gone back on a bit on Sonic Rush is progression through stages. 
 In many of the recent Sonic Releases players have had to explore adventure-type areas to find the 
 passages to stages. In Sonic Rush you simply select where you wanna go on a Super Mario Bros. 3-style 
 world map. This makes things quicker and even allows for alternate paths when you play through 
 Blazes game.
  
  Items in the stages are actually at sort of a minimum, at least compared to the Genesis games anyway. 
 You have a ring bonus, normal shield, a magnetic shield, tension gauge bonus, extra life, and an 
 invincibility powerup. I never really noticed them too much in Rush but ever since they made the 
 newer Sonic Adventure games Ive missed old powerups like the water shield, fire shield, and others 
 from the Genesis games.
  
  The biggest improvement over the Advance games and even the recent console games here is the level 
 design. 
  
  Sonic Advance was on the right track when it brought back the 2D speed platforming and crazy objects 
 like springs, rails, and loops (all of which this game calls gimmicks) , but some complained that 
 because of the games rather close up camera, it was difficult to see what was coming at you which 
 required a lot of memorization. Sonic Rushs pulled back camera as well as Segas putting the action 
 on both screens at the same time fixes this to an extent. The use of both screens allows some things 
 in levels, like big loops and chase sequences with boulders to be bigger than they ever could have 
 been on one screen. Transitioning between the two screens while playing is seamless almost all 
 the time too.
  
  From the very start the levels are excellently designed to take you through loops, over springs, 
 out of cannons, up platforms, and down rails which all comes together to give the levels a very 
 fast-paced rollercoaster feeling that honestly reminded me of the old Genesis games than anything 
 else.
  
  The only real flaw with the level design is that there are very many parts where youll be going 
 so fast that you wont be able to see or avoid the enemy thats right ahead of you, loosing you all 
 your rings. You might also be ran straight into a death trap or a blind jumpseveral times if 
 youre not careful enough, which has on more than one occasion lost me many of my hard-earned lives. 
 This can force players to memorize certain sections of levels which you really arent supposed to 
 have to do in a Sonic game. However, this is not a big price to pay when you consider that the 
 stages overall have generally been designed better than the ones in the Advance games and how they 
 only get better as the game goes on. While playing through the last few levels in the game things 
 got so fast and so fluid for me with new gimmicks like rockets, parachutes, rocket platforms, 
 and hangliders, that I honestly started having flashbacks, which was truly an exceptional moment 
 for me and probably would be for any oldschool Sonic fan.
  
  Another great throwback feature in Sonic Rush is the return of Sonic the Hedgehog 2 special stages. 
 Like in the original Genesis game, you constantly run down a halfpipe that is filled with rings 
 you must collect in order to get the chaos emerald at the end. However the pipe is also filled 
 with obstacles like spikes and new additions like enemies, speed dashes, switches, and bonuses. 
 During these special stages you control Sonic with the stylus alone, sliding it from one end of 
 the pipe across to the other to move Sonic and touching specific areas at certain times to perform 
 tricks. Using a touchscreen instead of a control pad to do this feels more natural and more direct 
 than ever, as you are able to (and will need to) slide Sonic from side to side faster than ever 
 before. This plus the inclusion of the extra objects in the course and you really cant go wrong 
 here.
  
  Lastly there are the boss battles. Although acts 1 and 2 of a level are in the 2D sidescrolling 
 format, the boss battles are more 3D. While you still run mostly from side to side or on a circular 
 track, youll have to fight a fully 3D rendered boss in a fully 3D environment. This of course 
 adds a bit of an extra dimension to the battles that probably wasnt possible on the GBA and helps 
 give the boss battles some variety. Although easy to figure out, these boss battles become quite 
 challenging from the get go, requiring quick reflexes and perseverance on the behalf of the player. 
 The way these battles play out looks and feels new, at least for the 2D Sonic titles, and show 
 us a little more of what is possible on the DS platform.
  
  As for game length, there are a little over half-a-dozen zones in all and youll play through them 
 in a different order for each character. But after that there isnt much more than the sound test 
 mode and the wireless multiplayer races.
  
  Closing Comments
  From the first time I heard about 2D sidescrolling Sonic game coming to the Nintendo DS I had my 
 hopes and it has not let me down. Some of the games visuals are a significant upgrade from the 
 Advance games and are somewhat of a testament to what the DS can do visually with this style of 
 graphics. While not perfect, the level design here takes what Dimps had done in the Advance games 
 and makes it feel much more like the classic Genesis games, effectively putting Sonic the Hedgehog 
 back on the right track. If you already down a DS, this is yet another great title to pick up. 
 If you ever played and enjoyed any of the Genesis Sonic games and have been pining for that oldschool 
 feeling, Sonic Team has pretty much now given you an obligation to buy a DS along with this game. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Pierst179
Rating: 8
Date: Aug 22, 2008 4:03 am PT
Review:  Back when the virtual world was a 2-D realm with visible pixels and side-scrolling goodness any 
 game that featured the name "Sonic" at its title had a very good chance of being a masterpiece, 
 and creating a good Sonic game seemed pretty easy. It all changed though when the wonders of the 
 triple axis perspective were discovered by developers, after that producing a decent Sonic adventure 
 felt harder than Rocket Science as the formula just didn't translate well into the new vast environments 
 that became mandatory for all 3-D games after Mario 64 rocked the world. 
  
  
  Sonic Rush is a side-scrolling Sonic platformer therefore I can't say that it is here to change 
 the way we look at 3-D Sonic games. Still, it is a game with a very solid package that will make 
 old Sonic fans feel like they are playing Sonic 2 for the first time, and will cause new players 
 to proudly say that this is the best Sonic game they have ever played. 
  
  
  Sonic Rush uses the exact same formula that made the series so famous back in the nineties and 
 adds a couple of new exciting features allowed by the amazing DS hardware. The character models 
 and some parts of the scenario have 3-D graphics and can be easily compared to New Super Mario 
 Bros. The game looks simply astonishing while making full use of both screens on the DS and it 
 can be even faster than the old installments of the franchise. 
  
  
  Once you select the zone you will explore from a Super Mario Bros. 3 like world map the scenario 
 will occupy both screens and Sonic will start the level already running while the excitement is 
 powered by a fast-paced soundtrack that suits the mood of the game perfectly. This makes players 
 feel thrilled as soon as they start the stage. As you run through the zones Sonic will change screens 
 as he climbs a wall or falls into a pit. The amazing thing is how smooth it is done. There are 
 no slow downs despite the beautiful graphics. 
  
  
  The touch screen is only used on the bonus stages where you need to get a certain number of rings 
 to get an emerald. Here you will use the stylus to move sonic through a half-pipe while avoiding 
 the traps that will suddenly appear. The bonus stages are very challenging and will take a lot 
 of practice to be mastered. 
  
  
  Each zone consists of two regular levels and a boss fight. The challenge aspect of the game is 
 fairly reduced when compared to the original Sonic trilogy because of two main aspects that make 
 things less frustrating and more fun. The first one is because once you reach the boss level you 
 may use as many continues as possible and your character will always be able return to that same 
 boss battle without having to go through the zone's regular stages again. 
  
  
  The second factor is that the developers were smart enough to notice that sometimes the old Sonic 
 games felt a little unfair because some enemies would appear out of nowhere while you are speeding 
 on a ramp. With that in mind they created a "rush" attack. The attack is activated by pressing 
 the Y-button, which causes Sonic to become involved in a blue aura while running, any enemies he 
 touches while doing that will be destroyed. However you can't use it through all the stage since 
 it would make things ridiculously easy. A bar on the left side of the screen will show how much 
 of this rush attack can still be used, once the bar runs out of energy you can fill it again by 
 killing enemies. 
  
  
  The game truly shines when it comes to all these aspects but its score gets slightly affected because 
 of the game's weak storyline. I am one of those gamers who thinks games like Mario and Sonic don't 
 need a good storyline at all, but while on all Mario games you only have to deal with the entire 
 save-the-princess thing once the game starts and on the final cinematic, on this game you are constantly 
 being remembered by the characters that there is some kind of void on space and time and Eggman 
 may be causing all that stuff. 
  
  
  The storyline also involves another character, Blaze the Cat that is also a playable character. 
 The levels she goes through are exactly the same as Sonic  and the characters also have similar 
 abilities  they are just played in a completely different order. Beating the game with her won't 
 really add a lot to the overall experience besides some more knowledge of the storyline. 
  
  
  In this area the game takes itself too seriously causing the whole plot to fall flat. Whenever 
 a dialogue between the characters starts you will find yourself pressing the buttons to get through 
 these boring segments quicker and start the action. 
  
  
  Overall Sonic Rush is a very good Sonic game. There aren't many things that could be improved here. 
 Everything that worked perfectly on the past games like the replay value and the inevitable urge 
 to play a stage all over again just for the sake of doing it is still here. Add a few cool details 
 that could only be made on the Nintendo DS and you have got the definitive 2-D Sonic game of this 
 century. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: RT-uchiha
Rating: 4.5
Date: Aug 15, 2008 3:23 pm PT
Review:  i can't lie to you about this game.... the game is OKAY at first it's perfect until you beat the 
 game in ome night... i had beat it in 6 hours... the music rules though and the gameplay is awsome 
 when you have to beat like 10 enimies at a time to move on in the level... the bosses are dumb and 
 hard on certain zones like leaf storm's and the last level once you beat it you'll have to use 
 the touchscreen to grab rings in spec. stages... which get's impossible to beat until my 43 try 
 (yes i tallied) i beat it. then that song from kingdom hearts plays as you beat the boss.... (the 
 song is wrapped in black) but the game's grapic's sux and the bosses are either annoyng, cheap and 
 hard or easy to beat if you just want this crap get it, i'm a true fan but it's waaayyyy to overated 
 it's a pathetic ds game, but part 2 is good, the genesis sonic games graphics were better looking 
 than this, do not get unless you're doing to get every sonic game ever 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ZanarkandTidus
Rating: 9.5
Date: Aug 10, 2008 11:50 pm PT
Review:  I've noticed my score is quite a lot higher than most peoples scores who've reviewed this game 
 but I really like this game that much.
  
  Sonic was known for his fast gameplay, and this is the fastest 2D Sonic game I've played since Sonic 
 2 on Genesis. You speed through the levels, race through the loops, bounce off springs etc. The game 
 isn't completely brainless though there is many sections you can fall to your death easy.
  
  Once you realize the patterns of obsticles and correct routes you should breeze through the 
 game because it is very short (7 stages broken up into 2 levels per stage plus a boss fight (3rd 
 level each stage if you want to count it)
  
  The game though has a lot of blind jumping and trial by error.
  
  There is a greater abundance 
 of rings compared to other Sonic games but there is tougher enemies and sneaky obsticles like spikes 
 placed in sneaky positions to strip you of all your rings if you're careless.
  
  The graphics are not quite as colorful as other Sonic games but the environments look more detailed. There 
 is cut scenes at the end of every stage but it's the same thing everytime despite looking good. The 
 boss fights mix 2D/3D which is a nice feature and it looks pretty good as you get more realistic 
 angles of the boss fight.
  
  The voice acting is childish but hey it's a Sonic game, the music isn't as memorable as other Sonic 
 games but isn't bad.
  
  Overall-I liked this game, it had the traditionally fast Sonic gameplay, was challenging enough despite 
 being short and most importantly I found it fun.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: silverblur007
Rating: 8
Date: Aug 3, 2008 3:09 pm PT
Review:  
  
  
  Sonic Rush is a Sonic game that was released in 2005. To this day, it is probably one of many good 
 sonic games for a handheld system. This game also marks the debut of Blaze the cat. The story starts 
 out with Sonic trying to stop another one of Dr. Eggman's schemes. When you first defeat Eggman 
 a mysterious object called a Sol Emerald drops out of his clutches, and Blaze takes off with it. 
 Eventually, Sonic and Tails meet a new character named Eggman Nega (Blaze's dimension's Eggman) . 
 The story is well put together, but the reason I gave this game an 8/10 was because of some of 
 the gameplay. You could have built up so much speed (as either character) and so many rings all 
 to have taken away from you by one hit from an enemy. Something I liked about this game was the 
 versus mode where Sonic and Blaze race to the end of a stage. Sonic relies on his speed to win, 
 while Blaze relies more on her ability to reach places Sonic can't access. If you are getting into 
 the Sonic franchise and have a ds, this will be a good first game to play. If you don't like this, 
 play Sonic Rivals. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Lukeitch
Rating: 5
Date: Aug 2, 2008 12:19 pm PT
Review:  Mediocore, this game is nothing more. Yes its good finally playing this on the DS but they used 
 the DS in an awful way. You can only use it with sonic and that is once every two levels. To collect 
 the chaos emeralds. Its great that sonic plays like it did in the original game but i was hoping 
 for something different. It barely took me three hours to complete this game. I love sonic, this 
 and mario games are my favourites (including Brawl) but I think that this could have been so much 
 more!!
  
  The game itself is great, good levels, good bosses, good storyline, time trails is fun and great 
 to do but unfortunatly thats it. Sonic games are brilliant but this is an exception. If you're 
 a fan of the series then yes get it
  
  Personally i think you should get the new super mario bros.
  
  
  Again, mediocore. : ( 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Tireyo643
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jul 30, 2008 11:08 am PT
Review:  Sonic Rush is a good game but there is a little bit more to be desired. Sonic Rush is a lot like 
 Sonic and Knuckles for the Sega Genesis. This updated Sonic game is fun to play and can entertain 
 anyone who grew up with Sonic! The atmosphere in the game is bright and colorful and the layouts 
 are designed well but not not well enough to provide a very hard challenge. The music in this game 
 is what you can expect for a high speed Sonic game. The voice acting in the game can get annoying 
 after awhile, especially during boss fights. Sometimes you just want Dr. Eggman to shut-up. The 
 phrases he says is cheesy- (Get ready to be schooled, take this, He He) . If you played any of the 
 former Sonics, then you have already been there and done that. If you haven't played any Sonic 
 at all, give it a try. For Sonic fans, I recommend that you find a friend that has this game, play 
 it for awhile, and see if you want to buy the game for about $20. I'm not totally sure if you can 
 rent a game such as this, but if you have the opportunity to do so, rent it first. I give Sonic 
 Rush a 7.5 because it could of been so much more than what it is. Keep in mind that I like games 
 with good quality and long lasting moments to remember for a lifetime. Sonic Rush only offers good 
 quality. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DramaticMeta
Rating: 5
Date: Jul 29, 2008 11:38 pm PT
Review:  Well, Sonic Rush has great graphics, almost good music, as usually in every sonic great sense of speed, but 
 a quite bad storyline. If you want great senarios, avoid this game. Is big, something that can be good, and 
 the difficulty just right. So, it's round a mediocre game, let me explain more analyzed. About the 
 graphics: well, they are good but they could be better! And there is no existence of 3d just like 
 ib Sonic Rush Adventure! About the music: This thing not could, should be better, much better, but still 
 you might enjoy its music. Well, it's quite usual that every Sonic has great sense of speed, but both 
 Rush adventure and Rush have not that stuff as the best like in Sonic Rivals. About the storyline, it's 
 quite boring, nothing interesting. What is good in this game is that you will enjoy two weeks anyway, because 
 it's one of thegigantic Sonics. Well, not bad but nor good! A 5.0 is enough. Itold you, it could be 
 BETTER! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: alpunk96
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jul 21, 2008 1:26 am PT
Review:  I'm gonna start off by saying this: The music is great for a handheld and the graphics fit the sonic 
 world like a glove. The Controls are as good as it gets and this game is nothing more than good 
 old 2D Sonic, but it still has It's problems. For one sometimes there's so much platforming in a 
 Level, so you'll slow yourself down in order to live past those parts, which is not good for a Sonic 
 game because Sonic is all about speed. Gameplay wise Blaze and Sonic are the same. You'll die multiple 
 times in some lives before beating it and the only reason you beat it is that you learn were al 
 the jumps and bad guys are. Most of the Boss fights are WAY TOO HARD. (Now back to the good) The new 
 "Boost System" is really cool and a good thing for Sonic. The Boss fights really get you focused. Now 
 for a little bad, The voice acting sucks, badly.
  FINAL VERDICT: Great 2D Sonic game that's fun and hard, with a few problems.
  If your a Sonic fan, it's 
 a must have. If your not a Sonic fan, It's still worth a look. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: evviebear
Rating: 5
Date: Jul 15, 2008 8:41 pm PT
Review:  Sega's speedy hedgehog has had many games that are decent, but here's an exception: Sonic Rush. 
 This game is even worse than Sonic Genesis for the GBA, due to not a glitch, but its gameplay. 
 Most of the time, you think that it's easy at the beginning, but usually smack in the middle there's 
 a problem, that is usually affecting the gameplay a lot, like you can't jump somewhere no matter 
 what, or when you go down, you need to go up but you can't, because of the level design. If you 
 beat the game, you must be an expert, or if you haven't -- I understand. And they pretty much make 
 you beat the game twice, because pretty much the only difference is that the levels are in a different 
 order. Don't listen to the good reviews-this is bad. It's worth a rent. Speaking of renting, Sega 
 made the first zone for Sonic purposely easy not because it was the first level, but because they 
 wanted you to rent it, think it was "superb", then waste twenty bucks on it like I did. It seems 
 like Sega just said, "Hey, let's make a game!" then just threw some programming and graphics together 
 and called it a Sonic game. DO NOT BUY SONIC RUSH!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Animad345
Rating: 9
Date: Jul 13, 2008 5:50 am PT
Review:  Wondering whether to get this game?
  
  GET IT!
  
  Brilliant storyline, amazing gameplay and addicting music. You can play as either Sonic or Blaze 
 the Cat- a new character. This game really uses the nintendo ds's abillities very well. I just 
 loved the storyline! You just keep wanting to find out what happens next, but you also find the 
 actual gameplay and the boss levels excellent as well. I truly enjoyed this game, and it is definitely 
 worth buying.
  
  I can't think of any critisism people could give this game whole-heartedly. The story isn't cheesy, 
 the gameplay isn't rubbish, and the graphics aren't lame. 
  
  The ONLY weakness is the fact that Sonic and Blaze's gameplay are not at all different except for 
 VERY SLIGHT differences in music (but that's pretty cool too.) On the whole, one of my favourite 
 ever ds games. Just plain fun!
  
  Animad345 xxx 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Link3455
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jul 10, 2008 1:13 am PT
Review:  Sonic Rush marks Sonic's first game on the DS. Sonic's games haven't been quite up to par lately, 
 with a few exceptions, so I'm glad to say this one was at least fun.
  
  The story involves Sonic and Tails discovering that their world is being merged with another dimension. 
 It turns out that because of the merging, the Sol Emeralds have been released in Sonic and Tails' 
 world, and Dr. Eggman has grabbed them. Blaze the Cat, guardian of the Sol Emeralds and from the 
 other dimension, then comes to Sonic and Tails' world to try and retrieve the emeralds from Dr. 
 Eggman. Dr. Eggman Nega, Eggman's look a-like from Blaze's dimension, is also introduced in this 
 game, and his role is helping the original Dr. Eggman claim the Sol Emeralds and Chaos Emeralds. 
 Sonic and Tails work to find out what's going on and track down Blaze. Both Sonic and Blaze have 
 their own storylines which follow their own point of views of the story. Additionally, they both 
 have "navigators" for the bosses and the level overviews. Sonic's is Tails, and Blaze's is Cream 
 the Rabbit. You will also run into Sonic's other friends, Knuckles and Amy, occasionally along 
 the road.
  
  The music was pretty spot on in this game. It really fit well with the levels, and overall just 
 had good beats.
  
  The gameplay was regular Sonic running and jumping, but oferred a few new mechanics, that while 
 were decent, I felt somewhat replaced the traditional platforming that I feel Sonic's games should 
 be about. The new additions involved a "tension gauge," which would allow Sonic and Blaze to enter 
 boost mode, which can be activated by holding Y or X. While in boost mode, Sonic and Blaze are 
 superfast and invincible. Boost mode can only be used when the tension gauge had power in it. You 
 increased the tension gauge by either doing tricks while in the air by repeatedly pressing B and 
 then A when you're about to land on the ground, by doing tricks while grinding by repeatedly pressing 
 R, by defeating enemies, or by breaking capsules that involve increasing your tension gauge.
  
  I felt that overall, while the boost mechanic and blazing through the levels at super fast 
 speeds were fun, they focused too much on designing the levels for tricks and the tension gauge 
 and not enough for platforming. You were pretty much just following a straight linear path every 
 level, and doing tricks while in the air was really the only thing that prevented the levels from 
 being about half "hold right to win." Granted, there were many exceptions - you would jump here 
 and there, turn directions every now and then, and jump from platform to platform occasionally. 
 There were even sections where they trapped you in an area and forced you to fight enemies to advance. 
 Overall, though, I think they definitely could have put more work on platforming elements in Sonic 
 Rush. The way the levels were designed made it overall just too easy.
  
  Now that that's out of the way... the bosses. They were in 3D and you could move left and right, 
 often along strips of land. You had to hit them in the cockpit when they were vulnerable, while 
 dodging their attacks while they weren't vulnerable. Overall, the bosses were done pretty well.
 
  
  Next, I'll go onto the actual scenery of the stages. They were designed great and had a lot of 
 good visuals, even if the main path was somewhat linear.
  
  Special Stages were present in this game too, and most similar to Sonic the Hedgehog 2's special 
 stages. Except this time, you would use the stylus to control Sonic. Only Sonic was capable of 
 entering the special stages. Like StH2, you would guide Sonic and try to avoid bombs while collecting 
 the rings. If you had enough rings by the end of the level, you gained a Chaos Emerald.
  
  If you collect all 7 Chaos Emeralds and beat both Sonic and Blaze's storyline, you unlock the final 
 boss battle against Dr. Eggman and Dr. Eggman Nega's machine ... uh, thing. You play as Super Sonic 
 and Burning Blaze during this battle, and the fight switches between the two characters after hitting 
 the machine. Overall I didn't find it that fun, but it was a little something extra to shoot for.
 
  
  The replay value of this game is alright. There are seven stages with two acts and one boss battle 
 each, and you can try getting "S" ranks on all of them after completing the game. There's also 
 Time Attack, where you can race against your fastest times completing the levels and keep trying 
 to improve them.
  
  Overall a good game, but nothing great or spectacular. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mariofan2008
Rating: 6.5
Date: Jul 6, 2008 3:54 pm PT
Review:  I'm not sure what to say. Here is all I can think of:
  
  Well, its a good game. I am terrible at it though. If its not just me, its one of the hardest games 
 in the world! Graphics aren't very good, and the music gets annoying sometimes. But still, its 
 great. My favorite/only level i've played with Blaze is the first level. Its good, and I almost 
 beat it, but I forgot there was 2 parts to each level, so after the first part I moved on to the 
 2nd part and lost. Oh well. Maybe you'll be better at the game then me, I don't know. So anyway, 
 its really fun, and... ah... challenging... okay. So I would rent it first, mostly because of the 
 annoying music and fact that you might lose every single time you play.
  
  Hope you like my review! Bye! Oh yah, and if my review isn't enough, read someone elses.
  (Boy 
 that was my worst review yet. I messed up BIG time!) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: goldninja300
Rating: 9
Date: Jun 24, 2008 1:04 pm PT
Review:  I loved this game from the first time I played it. I especially like how the old style of Sonic 
 game play has returned, doing nothing but running! But with a great twist: he can go from one screen 
 to the other! The running from screen to screen is what made me want to play it in the first place; 
 but if you're going too fast, it can get confusing as to which screen he is on, which adds another 
 fun element, you asking yourself (if only for a split second) where the heck am I? I also love 
 the writing, it's creative, and introduces a new character, Blaze the Cat, who is way better than 
 Big in seventeen different ways. While Blaze id dealing whith the real eggman, Sonic is stuck with 
 Eggman Nega, an Eggman from Blaze's alternate universe. But the difficulty is what I don't like 
 about the game, along with the confusion I mentioned earlier. The bosses are easy until the last 
 one, that's hard, but easy to get a hang of, but the really hard part, is the special stages, I 
 have all the chaos emeralds but one, it took me hours just to get the 6th, and the 7th, I don't 
 even get close to that. Even though the difficulty and the confusion gets me mad at this game, 
 it's still fun, and can get your mind off things you worry about, so this game gets a 9 out of 
 10. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: StillFreeTagger
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jun 15, 2008 6:27 pm PT
Review:  What do I and many others think when we think of Sonic the Hedgehog? SPEED! We're always looking 
 for intense speed in a Sonic game. Sonic Rush for the Nintendo DS gets the job done!
  
  Eggman's up to his no good tricks again! Sonic chases after him, only to find a villian that looks 
 like the mad doctor and a strange pyrokinetic cat. Who are they, and what are these Sol Emeralds 
 they keep speaking of? It's up to Sonic to find out!
  
  Sonic Rush combines the old-school speedy gameplay of the Sonic series with the style and flare 
 of Sonic Adventure. In story mode, you will play as either Sonic or a newcomer, Blaze the Cat. 
 Both have similar gameplay, with Blaze having a few differences due to her powers. Classic moves 
 like the spindash return as well as some new ones like the speed burst! The controls are very similar 
 to classic Sonic games, making it easy for any gamer of any skill to pick up and play!
  
  The graphics are very, VERY impressive for a DS game. Think Dreamcast graphics, only updated a 
 bit. While enemies (except bosses) are 2D sprites, Sonic and Blaze are in full 3D. The 3D engine 
 used for the two main characters is a combination of traditional and cel-shading. The levels are 
 mainly 2D, with some parts in 3D. Supporting characters (Tails, Cream, ect.) are in pre-rendered 
 3D. The game looks great, proving that Sega is a major player in the DS collective.
  
  The music in the game is done by none other than Hideki Naganuma! Naganuma is notorious for his 
 work in Jet Set Radio and by playing both games, you can tell it's his work! A musical meld of 
 pop and upbeat hip-hop are an untraditional soundtrack to the layed back environments of the game, 
 but are a joy to listen to. Voice clips are provided the 4Kids cast. Woopty-doo!
  
  The only problem I had with the game was the unpredictability. At times you'll be running superfast 
 only to run into an enemy and lose all your rings. The speed burst can be used to avert this, but 
 most of the time it's too late. Also, when ramping while going too fast, it's easy to fly across 
 the level and into a spike trap or a bottomless pit.
  
  Lovers of speed, this is a must! Sonic Rush is for everyone, giving that old school Sonic feel 
 while keeping the style of modern day Sonic! This is great for on the go! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Jamez634
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jun 11, 2008 11:35 pm PT
Review:  Sonic Rush takes advantage of the double screens and has given us a new 2D adventure.
  
  STORY
  Once again, Eggman has stolen the Chaos Emeralds and Sonic wants them back. Eggman has 
 teamed up with (twin from another world) Eggman Nega. Eggman has also stolen the "Solar Emeralds" 
 from a new female character called Blaze the Cat. Sonic and Blaze meet up and Sonic offers for 
 them to team up and stop Eggman together. But Blaze refuses and tries to get the Solar Emeralds 
 by herself (they have a big battle at the end) . And so the adventure begins . . .
  
  Story: 7/10
  
  GAMEPLAY
  You can either control Sonic or Blaze (surprisingly, Blaze has better 
 powers than Sonic) , each in their own little worlds. Tails manages to help Sonic in his adventure 
 who sits at the top screen when you're choosing a level on the bottom screen. When you are Blaze, 
 Cream (you know, the small rabbit) helps her. All the levels are 2D, which makes this a great Sonic 
 game. The levels are fast paced (aren't all Sonic levels?) and take up both screens. If you don't 
 know what I mean, say if you were controlling Sonic on the top screen and you jumped off a cliff. 
 You would then fall to the touch screen. Only the boss levels are in 3D and the backgrounds look 
 sensational. But sometimes in the game you can get very annoyed and you wish there were more checkpoints 
 in the level. The controls are very simple. Use the arrows to move (obviously only the left and 
 right since it's only 2D) . A or B is jump which you normally use to kill enemies and bosses. Y 
 or X is "power-up" which makes you speed up and R or L is block. See? It's simple, and that's what 
 I like about this game, the controls are very simple.
  
  Gameplay: 8/10
  
  GRAPHICS
  Sonic looks better 2D than he does 3D. You will never say "What? How did I die?" Unlike the 3D 
 games, in this game you can clearly see what's going on. The cutscenes are cartooned (not that 
 matters) . Sega have done a great job with Sonic Rush's graphics.
  
  Graphics: 8/10
  
  SOUND
  The background music has vocals singing some weird songs and raps like "Cha! Cha! Cha! 
 Cha! Cha!" and "This is what you need!" and "Doooooo -do-do-da-doooooo!" You can tell there's been 
 a lot of thought into the music of Sonic Rush.
  
  Sound: 7/10
  
  Overall, Sonic Rush is a good platformer for the DS and I recommend it for any gamers tired of 
 3D gameplay but it's not a number 1 game. You'll wish there were more lavels and it's over way 
 too quick. I finished it in 5 days.
  
  RATING: 7.5 
::::::

::::::
UserName: famicommander
Rating: 9
Date: Jun 8, 2008 2:55 pm PT
Review:  Sonic Rush is everything that made the Genesis classics great and more. You've got your sense of 
 speed, great boss fights, and you don't have any superfluous characters being shoved down your 
 throat.
  
  The game looks and sounds great. This is Sonic in a 2.5D adventure; a first for the series. The 
 character models are in 3D, and the levels and backgrounds are all in brilliantly colored 2D. You 
 couldn't ask anything more from a DS title. The music is catchy and always seems to suit the situation. 
 As the gameplay speeds up, the music does too. If your time limit is running down, the music gets 
 a panicky feel to it, and it really gets your heart going.
  
  The gameplay is a fresh take on a classic formula. You've got your standard "press right to win" 
 going on, but things are complicated (in a good way) by the two screens of the DS. You'll be running 
 and end up going from one screen straight over to the other depending on your direction and momentum. 
 You've also got a speed burst, activated by pressing a button. Your speed burst is good for two 
 things: killing enemies and making quick escapes. You build up your burst meter by doing tricks 
 in the air, which amounts to nothing more than pressing a few buttons as you fall. If you happen 
 to fill your meter completely before using your speed burst, you gain invincibility for a short 
 time. What this game does really well, as the name would imply, is maintain its sense of speed. 
 Sonic is about going fast, and you'll do just that in this title.
  
  The boss fights are very well-done. You all know the drill: Robotnik jumps into a giant robot and 
 tries to squash you. You'll be chasing sea dragons, jumping over steam-rollers, jumping on heads, 
 and spin dashing all over the place. Hard to find any issues there.
  
  We also get to meet Blaze the Cat in this game. The story of this title revolves around her. The 
 story is incredibly simple, but I think that's what a Sonic fan wants. You aren't going to find 
 yourself skipping through endless menus trying to get to the action. Here's the gist of it: There 
 are two dimensions. Sonic is from one, Blaze is from the other. Each has its own version of Robotnik, 
 and they've met up because the universes somehow came together. Playing as either Sonic or Blaze, 
 you progress through the levels in an effort to stop them. Everything controls as it should, and 
 you don't suffer from "cheap deaths" like you might in some other Sonic games from running too 
 fast and finding an unexpected cliff.
  
  The multiplayer is what you might expect: you race your friend to the end of the level. You only 
 need one cart to play with a friend, and you can also send a demo of the game to them. It's a fun 
 distraction, but ultimately not the focus of the game.
  
  There are a few faults with the game, but nothing major. Sonic veterans may find it a little easy 
 at first, but some of the later zones and boss fights can be quite the challenge. The story is 
 cheesy and shallow, but that could be a good or bad thing for a Sonic fan, depending on who you 
 ask. Without a doubt, the largest issue with this game is the length. It is in-arguably too short, 
 but the replay value is high with fun multiplayer, two difficulty levels, and two characters.
 
  
  Overall, this is one of the better handheld Sonic packages out there. It is essentially an extension 
 of the excellent Sonic Advance series, and it manages to improve upon the previous games in every 
 way. It's an incredible deal for the price, and you owe it to yourself if you like Sonic or 2D 
 platforming games in general. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Benevolentbob
Rating: 8
Date: Jun 8, 2008 9:09 pm PT
Review:  Sonic has strayed from his 2D lineage in recent years to try and compete with the likes of Mario 
 and Ratchet and Clank in the 3D realm of platforming. With the exception of the adventure series, 
 his attempts have been futile. Now, I had been hearing that the hand-held Sonic games were still 
 solid additions to the series, so when I saw this game sued, I decided I'd give it a try. 
  
  The graphics here are essentially the traditional 2D look with some tweaks. First of all the 
 characters themselves are 3D models, while the background, along with the game-play itself, is 
 still largely 2D. This provides a unique look to the game, that I personally like. It's sort of 
 like bringing the old Sonic games into the new age of gaming. The backgrounds are all well done 
 and very colorful, in the usual Sonic fashion. Everything is pretty traditional, with some 3D effects 
 added. 
  
  The soundtrack is pretty typical for a Sonic game. Not bad, but not amazing either. Fast paced 
 rock with bad lyrics and some techno. I just turned off the music and listened to my ipod while 
 playing.
  
  The game-play is classic Sonic game-play for the most part. Very fast with solid level design and 
 power ups. Although sometimes I just can't shake the feelings that I'm just pressing forward and 
 occasionally jumping so I don't fall into a pit. This is especially the case when you pick up enough 
 speed to just run straight through your enemies. They did add in a few novelties here and there 
 like swinging on a chain to reach an otherwise unattainable place. However, this has all been done 
 before, and you really don't come across things like that very often in the game. You can also 
 play as Blaze for some more game-play value. The boss fights are in 3D to mix up the game-play 
 a bit, and it actually works quite well. Why they can't accomplish this in the console attempts 
 of a 3D Sonic is beyond me. 
  
  If you're a Sonic fan you should check this game out. If you're just into platformers, you'll probably 
 enjoy this as well. This is essentially what the console Sonic games should be. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TissueShoe
Rating: 8.5
Date: May 30, 2008 9:19 am PT
Review:  Sonic Rush is a 2-D platformer that sticks to the roots while adding some new stuff, and the end 
 result is great. You can play as Sonic or new character Blaze but like in Sonic Advance, all the 
 levels are the same for both characters only this time in different orders. The gameplay also doesn't 
 really vary between the two. But Rush is overall just a great platformer that sticks to its roots, 
 but it has added tricks for Sonic to do, which are actually cool and not difficult to do. This 
 varies the gameplay a bit from other Sonic games. The graphics are really nice as well, there is 
 some 3-D thrown in that looks quite good and the boss battles are in 3-D, which is really cool. 
 The music sounds all right, but the 'lyrics' sound rediculous and really stupid, which can actually 
 be entertaining and laughter-inducing sometimes. Overall, Sonic Rush is a great game not to be 
 missed by any fan of everyone's favorite blue hedgehog. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: zikimaru88
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 29, 2008 1:32 pm PT
Review:  The Good: The game is very faithful to the one true sonic (the original)  boss battles are in 3-D, 
 and believe it or not, they're fun (sonic is known for his boring and dry boss battles)  introduces 
 a new character: Blaze the Cat (which is one of my favorite sonic characters up to date)  Battle 
 mode is kinda fun  the speed meter can help out a lot sometimes  a great soundtrack  a fast paced 
 awesome sonic game 
  
  
  The Bad: Way too easy  The minigame to get the chaos emeralds are sometimes so hard, u want too 
 throw your ds on the ground and cry  u can only play as 2 characters, i was so looking forward 
 to knuckles  a new villain Eggman Nega (Sega is so desperate now a days)
  
  Final Comments: The game is fun with good music, but should have had more playable characters  
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: doctores143
Rating: 8.5
Date: Feb 27, 2008 5:59 pm PT
Review:  The first time I played this game I told my friend this game is crap! Then I got to act 2 and it 
 realy started getting crazy! Sonic flips, dashed, and even does more tricks that ever before and 
 this really makes the game more enjoyable. I asked my friend if I could borrow it and after a bit 
 of negotiating he let me borrow it for 2 weeks in exchange for me letting him borrow super paper 
 mario so that shows how replayable this game is because he was so sad giving it up. Anyway here 
 are the basics:
  
  
  graphics:10 out of 10. Great for the ds. The first sonic game to have a sidescrolling 3-d style to 
 it
  
  controls:8 out of 10. Great but not as good as the old sonic advanced games because it is a little 
 harder to remember.
  
  gameplay:7.5 out of 10. Its realy fun but its kinda short. The lots of flips and tricks (ryme... ha) 
 realy make the game more enjoyable and like most games you wont be able to break away form it for 
 the first week. The bosses are in complete 3-d though so thats cool!
  
  overall:8 out fo 10
  
  This game is great but I dont know if its worth spending 50 bucks on. 
 Its a fun borrow because I borrowed it so I would know. Unless you are a halo or xbox nut I recomend 
 this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: poisonedpawn
Rating: 4
Date: Feb 27, 2008 1:46 pm PT
Review:  Of the games I've purchased for my DS, Sonic Rush is the most disappointing of them all. I bought 
 this game after reading how good the reviews were and because of the frequent comments that it 
 was like the original 2D Sonic games. It was a bargain game ($19.99) at Best Buy, so I figured, 
 why not?
  
  Within minutes of starting the game I could already tell this was not going to live up to the original 
 Sonic games. I haven't played any Sonic games since Sonic and Knuckles having never owned a Dreamcast 
 or Gamecube so I have no idea just how low the Sonic franchise got, but it must have been pretty 
 low if this game is considered to be so good.
  
  You fly through levels blazingly fast never really doing much of anything except occasionally jumping. 
 You frequently run into enemies that are inconveniently placed right it your way, but which you 
 cannot see until you're right on top of them. Similarly, if you miss a jump or are moving too slowly 
 you end up missing a platform you need to get to and fall into the many large bottomless pits in 
 the game.
  
  This is not what Sonics 1-3 and Sonic and Knuckles were like at all. First off, unless there was 
 a good reason for large bottomless pits they weren't there. Frequently if you missed a jump it 
 was okay and you just had to go a different route or retrace your steps a bit. I can't really recall 
 that ever being the case in Sonic Rush.
  
  Sonic never moved this fast for this long in those games either... sure there were segments where 
 you moved fast, but various obstacles slowed you down and the game actually rewarded you for slowing 
 down a bit and looking around. Sonic 3 for instance hid the entrances to the special stages and 
 frequently allowed you to find alternate routes that actually rewarded you with shields, rings, 
 1-ups not to mention ways to bypass certain other obstacles.
  
  And what about Blaze? Her moves are virtually identical to Sonic's and so playing through the game 
 with her yields little more than different interstitial segments. Does no one remember playing 
 through Sonic 3 and Knuckles with Sonic, Tails and Knuckles? Did each character not have different 
 ways to progress through the stages, not to mention significantly different moves? Was playing 
 through the Sonic 3 stages as Knuckles once you got your copy of Sonic and Knuckles not fun as 
 you discovered new areas and had to find your way passed new obstacles?
  
  Stage variety is sorely lacking too. Besides a few unique elements here and there (the moving platforms 
 in the desert stages and the hang-gliders in one of the later stages) you don't do much other than 
 run and jump. The original games never felt like every stage was the same with different settings. 
 There were always unique segments to every level, even if it was just relatively simplistic jumping 
 to various platforms to get to the top of a room.
  
  Overall gameplay in Sonic Rush is far less engrossing than any of those original titles. They had 
 substance. They were fun. Sonic Rush is boring, far too fast-paced, and annoying.
  
  I will admit that I enjoyed the retro Sonic 2-style bonus levels, though I've yet to be able to 
 pass the last one... they just shot the difficulty through the roof with it. Something else I don't 
 particularly appreciate.
  
  For me, sound and graphics are always secondary to the gameplay. As long as they're not distractingly 
 bad I'm okay with them so long as the game is engrossing. My biggest audio complaint is the annoying 
 cheers from Tails and Cream during boss battles.
  
  I truly feel sorry for anyone who has played some of the more recent Sonic games. They must have 
 been truly awful if people feel it's fair to compare this game with the originals. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ShadowCR21
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 22, 2008 5:09 am PT
Review:  Sonic Rush is one of those games that does what a Sonic game should: 2D, be fast, and kill enemies 
 while running, jumping and spindashing fast. The game also adds a new character to the Sonic series, 
 Blaze, who I think is a pretty cool character for who she is, as she sounds ready for action and 
 also defensive at times. She is much better than most of the characters Sega has been adding to 
 newer Sonic games, that's certain. And it adds a tension bar, which, if there's energy in it, allows 
 you to boost VERY fast, which I think is a good addition, because that's what a Sonic game is supposed 
 to have: RUNNING FAST.
  
  The special stages are similiar to those from Sonic 2, in the sense that you're in a 3D halfpipe 
 running straight forward getting rings. You use the Touch Screen to control Sonic in these special 
 stages, which I find easy to control compared to in Sonic 2 when pushing buttons on the control 
 pad respond a little TOO sensitively.
  
  The music is nice, catchy stuff that fits Sonic games well, especially the music in the boss battles 
 and the Dead Line Zone. The only music i'm not too fond of is Leaf Storm's music, whatever they're 
 saying in the background, that to me sounded sort of cheesy and annoying, but the rest is fine.
 
  
  The graphics made me think at first that it feels like a 3D Sonic game, or that this is one of 
 those 2D-3D mixed games. Either way, they're not bad for a seventh generation portable console. 
 The character sprites have nice animations as well.
  
  While i've stated the great things about Sonic Rush, what are the bummers here? Let's see:
  1. 
 The cutscenes. Sometimes these are LONG. iirc unless i'm missing somewhere, you can't ever press 
 Start to just skip them. Especially in Exception zone when you have to wait like five minutes after 
 selecting it before you can get on to the actual level, it gets very boring. The cutscenes aren't 
 too bad, or stupid, though, and i've played better games like Super Paper Mario that have cinematics 
 longer than this. And unlike the loading in Sonic the Hedgehog for the 360/PS3, it doesn't kill 
 the game.
  
  2. While I like the story, Sonic and Blaze's individual stories feel somewhat short and easy. However, 
 it ramps into high gear when you reach the Altitude Limit zone, and the Dead Line zone with the 
 boss,
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  *****SPOILERS!!!!!!!***** Blaze or Sonic, depending on who you are not playing as **********.
 
  
  3. The voice cast. This, with Shadow the Hedgehog, was the first game to use the 4Kids voice actors. 
 I didn't really like the voices, except Blaze and Eggman. Cream's voice was meh, Sonic's sounded 
 too silly, and Tails... well, you know.
  
  4. Bottomless pits. The level designs are often full of long jumps that can make things worse. 
 They're full of obstacles and elevators too sometimes, but would a game be as fun if it was just 
 press forward and run?
  
  5. The usage of characters occupying the lower screen during boss battles. This was a criticism 
 by many players who reviewed the game. I can see that they find that annoying, but in all honesty 
 I never had a problem with it. And speaking of boss battles, they said those were badly protracted 
 but I actually liked them, except maybe the one in Altitude Limit.
  
  Overall, this game is quite fun and to me has the feel that the ones on the Genesis did. If you 
 are a Sonic fan and have a DS, I highly recommend this game. I would give this an 8.5 but I added 
 an extra .5 for the fact that it was the first game I got with my DS. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: zombie_puke
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 29, 2008 7:26 am PT
Review:  If you like speed, the colour blue (or pink) racing past your eyes at blistering speed or the familiar 
 blue hedgehog, you can't go wrong with "Sonic Rush".
  
  With a new playable character and new nemesis, the same classic "zone and act" gameplay and all 
 new bosses and mind-melting sound score, nothing can beat sonic in this awsome and essential ds 
 title.
  
  The space time continum, the sol emeralds, and eggman nega are a little confusing at first, but 
 its the gameplay that really shines- lets face the storylines always cheesy and ends up happy, 
 but overall the game will blister your eyes with the speed! The new boost button and double screen 
 view make up for a fantastic, if not brain- bending game!
  
  BITE SIZE- Like mashed potato, without the lumps
  
  Finger blister count- low
  Mental abilities 
 streched- low
  Speed- Fast
  Most appealing to- Everyone who isn't slow
  
  Better than- Sonic Adventure Rush 8.5
  Worse than-New Super Mario Bros. 10
  
  Rating- BUY 
 IT NOW - ASK ME HOW! (Hint: go to a shop!) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Voldemort8989
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jan 22, 2008 7:29 am PT
Review:  Sonic Rush is actually your typical Sonic game. You start the game racing through the jungle at 
 high speeds, and work your way through different "zones." In this game you can either be Sonic 
 or a new character, Blaze the cat. The main point to thegame is defeating Eggman once again, while 
 running through pipes, going upside-down in loops, finding alternate paths, ramming enemies, and 
 collecting rings. Plus, at the end of each zone, you fight a boss. Good deal. Now for the bad.
 
  
  There are only two levels in each zone, and there aren't that many zones to complete, making the 
 game kind of short. But at the same time, you'll die so many times it'll lengthen the game a bit. 
 Also the levels look pretty similar. You'll feel like you're doing one over again. And also, as 
 soon as you think you've got a good pace going, you hit some kind of robot! Your rings fly EVERYWHERE, 
 and you desperately want revenge.
  
  Even if the game may have a few flaws, Sonic Rush is worth a spin. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Gearsman92
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 20, 2008 3:29 pm PT
Review:  Like the guys in Superman 2, Sonic the Hedgehog returns to the 2nd dimetion with Sonic Rush and 
 brings along Sega's glory days. The storyline is forget able. It seems that, yet again, the evil 
 Dr. Eggman is yet again trying to take over the world with the Choas Emeralds, But also has a generic 
 re-color of Eggman named Eggman Nega who's trying to make his own world named Eggmanland. The game's 
 storyline is pretty light and people don't real care. How ever, there is a new character named 
 Blaze the Cat who can keep up with Sonic. The gameplay has the classic gameplay of the old days, 
 with rings and loopdy loop in all. The new trick system That was in Sonic Advance 2 is back and 
 is more fun and easy to do, and has a new dash attack that makes you think and can't just go in 
 the same direction. The different between Sonic Rush and the Genisis and Sonic Advance games is 
 that there are less enemies and platforming for you to run really, really fast. The Graphics are 
 tight and use the D. S hardware very good. Levels are fun, creative, and just fun to look at. Since 
 this is a D. S game, its gonna use both screens, right? Yep, Sonic runs through both screens, only 
 problem is that there a split second in where you can't see Sonic, it's not something big, but 
 it can cause problems, esspecialy at speeds this fast. The biggest problem is that Sonic and Blaze 
 play alike. O. K, tell me which is which? Wow, I think I'm high. Hey? Dose this game have a funkey 
 sound trake or what? Can I buy this on Itunes? Despite the miner complaints, Sonic Rush brings 
 the franchise back on it's feet and is a fine addition to your D. S line up. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ojayosc
Rating: 5
Date: Jan 18, 2008 11:06 am PT
Review:  Sonic rush has many things wrong with it for one i think its too easy to beat and its annoying 
 when the missions are so complicated its not straight forward and theres a very small use of characters 
 where did tails and the others like knuckles disapear too sure there on the gameplay storyline 
 (which isnt a very good one) but the whole point of a sonic game is being able to play as him and 
 his friends not this newcomer blaze the cat who's abilities make clearing a stage difficult. The 
 boss fights aswell let me down they were too easy and didn't give anything difficult for you to 
 fight the boss fights are supposed to make it more difficult than what it was in the level they 
 just seemed to stay the same. I was a bit dissapointed with it being very easy and after you complete 
 it what is there to do ? Thats it game over I think they could have at least made it a little more 
 difficult so you didn't finish it so fast. I know that sonic is an absolute legend and thats why 
 i bought the game but i was a bit disappointed with it because its completely different storyline 
 and two characters only. I think that they should go back to basics but make a game on ds with 
 amazing graphics and all the original characters to play as. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Gamerreviewer
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jan 15, 2008 2:13 pm PT
Review:  The only reason I have gave this game a 7.5 rather than a 5.0 or below is that the levels and new 
 abilities they have put into the game takes your anger away from the some what rediculous boss 
 battles. There are a few that I liked and fun to play but some are just unfair. If you have the 
 skill to play this game then you should have no problem blasting through the levels with your speed 
 burst! The new abilities that are put into the game are mid air tricks/grind tricks to increase 
 your speed burst to defeat enemies and to get through the levels faster, and the speed burst. They 
 have also introduced a new character to the sonic series, Blaze the cat.
  
  The Boss battles on each act transforms your 2d game into a game with 3d graphics which is a cool 
 effect and something new that can take you away from the boring old school 2D graphics for this 
 new generation hand held gaming device. There are some catches to some of the boss battles though. 
 On Act 2 you verse Dr. Nega Eggman with sonic and Dr. Eggman on Act 3 with Blaze the cat. One of 
 their attacks is very close to being unaviodable which really can turn people on if they cant figure 
 out how to advoid it. Another boss battle that can make people angry is the Act 5 boss and the 
 Final boss. The 5th boss for sonic is the same boss as in the 1st act only with 1 new feature. 
 It can shoot missles. Well that wasnt really a big change which isnt that appealing because you 
 can use the same strategy as in Act 1. Now on the final boss isnt really that bad but they have 
 made his hands too big so its hard to advoid but it is the final boss and after you hit him three 
 times and trying to hit him on the 4th is going to be difficult with the rolling wheels of death 
 coming down his arm as you try to climb up to the head. I have to say that the boss battles didnt 
 ruin this game completely but they should have made small changes.
  
  The levels of this game boosted this rating to a 7.5. The levels are really fun with the new features 
 they added. Running through the levels is now a breeze with the new speed burst and the mid-air/grind 
 tricks they added. Now this game is no longer a boring run through time attack. Now this game has 
 more action in it for those of who like action gaming. You start out the level with 1 full bar 
 of speed burst and its gainable by doing mid-air/grind tricks which can really boost your score. 
 This makes another option in the scoring instead of trying to acheive lowest time and points from 
 the rings collected.
  
  Lastly, The storyline of this game isnt really appealing to me since the game didnt include any 
 suspense which drops this game to a 7.5. Otherwise this game might have acheived an 8.0 or higher.
 
  
  Thanks for reading, hope it helps,
  Gamerreviewer. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sontuk
Rating: 1
Date: Dec 28, 2007 1:59 pm PT
Review:  Its very boring. The level layout is dumb, and it's waaaaaaaaaaaaay too easy. Plus, the music is 
 annoying, mostly level 3. If you're looking for a good Sonic game, look elsewhere. It's not fun, 
 i'm serious. Plus, the multi-player is extremely slow. Though the bonus levels are kind of fun, 
 but they're hard to find. The game is not all fast SEGA says it is. All the enemies are badly animated, 
 and are very slow. It's just a bunch of garbage. I wasted my time playing this game, and you shouldn't 
 either. Other additions are better than this one, just don't play it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ChrissieGirl
Rating: 9.1
Date: Dec 19, 2007 8:54 am PT
Review:  It's been a long time since I could pick up a Sonic title like this without any worries about it 
 being a bad game, because, quite simply, Sonic Rush is a very good game. I know not everybody is 
 going to agree with me on this, but this game, much like the Advance series before it, proves that 
 Sonic just seems to work better in 2D, or in this game's case, 2.5D. I think Sonic could work in 
 3D but the method often hasn't been executed as good as what it could have been whereas a lot of 
 2D Sonic games (not all of them) turn out fine.
  
  Now why do I enjoy this game so much? Well, I admit I enjoyed it from the very moment I went into 
 the story mode and instantly was thrown into the very first level. It doesn't leave you hanging 
 around looking at story cut-scenes. There is a story, and it's not a perfect one, but this game 
 seems to focus on its gameplay more than anything else, and that alone makes this game enjoyable 
 to me.
  
  The general story is that, obviously, Eggman's up to something... or at least the guy looks like 
 Eggman. What's more, there's a mysterious female cat who goes by the name of Blaze hunting down 
 mysterious 'Sol Emeralds'. I admit, Blaze is actually one of the few new characters in the series 
 that actually interests me, and is perhaps the best new addition to the Sonic cast. Eggman-Nega, 
 however, in this game, comes across as nothing more than an Eggman rip-off especially in design, 
 and I cannot say I'm fond of his character.
  
  But forget the story. It's an okay story, but the real bulk of the game is in its gameplay. When 
 you first start story mode, you're thrown right into the game. You only get to play as Sonic at 
 first but as you progress through his story, you will unlock Blaze the Cat as a playable character, 
 thereby meaning you can only play as one of those two characters. It sounds limiting, but what 
 I wanted was a simple, fast-paced experience with Sonic and I got it. I don't need to be able to 
 play as every Sonic character under the sun to enjoy the game.
  
  Quite simply, you charge through the levels at top-speed, regardless of which character you play 
 as, moving from screen to screen. There is a new boost system in the game, which can give you new 
 spurts of speed, making you go faster. But as you can expect, this system drains each time you 
 boost, so to replenish your boost meter, you have to destroy robots, perform tricks or hit a checkpoint. 
 The boost meter is also important for entering the special stages in Sonic's levels, but I'll get 
 to that in a bit.
  
  Sonic and Blaze do play drastically similar to each other, but they do have minor differences which 
 are easy to take note of. For one, Blaze is not as fast as Sonic is in terms of running, but she 
 can perform tricks better than Sonic can as she can fire herself further into the air, while Sonic 
 does not go very high at all. One minor gripe I have with the story mode is that in both stories, 
 you will progress through the same levels, albeit in a different order. Though their minor differences 
 in gameplay exist, it's difficult to say that playing through the level as one or the other feels 
 that much different.
  
  Now, the special stages. This is the only real point in the game where you have to use the touch 
 screen. Remember Sonic 2's half-pipe? That pretty much summarizes the special stage in a nutshell. 
 You use the touch screen to control Sonic, moving him around to collect a specified amount of Rings. 
 If you get enough Rings, you can get the Chaos Emerald. Thankfully, this is only found in Sonic's 
 levels, so you do not need to enter any special stages with Blaze, which is one major difference 
 between the two stories in the game, and a welcome one at that.
  
  The boss fights are almost 3D, and are actually pretty fun. Eggman or Eggman-Nega (depending on 
 whether you're playing as Sonic or Blaze) attacks with various weird machines and you have to stop 
 them. While you're in battle, your partner who helps you along in your journey (not playable, not 
 even following you in the levels) cheers you on, and on the screen where they are, is also the 
 amount of hits the boss has left. Some of the bosses are pretty easy, but as you progress through 
 the game, they become more challenging.
  
  The story mode is the main bulk of the game, but Sonic Rush also has a time attack mode enabling 
 you to try and beat your records on various levels, which gives you a reason to possibly pick up 
 the game for a short time even after completing story mode. I certainly kept coming back just for 
 this. 
  
  What's more, the game has a pretty cool multiplayer, only for two players though, where you can 
 race each other through the levels. What's more, you only need one cart to support the game between 
 two people. The multiplayer is pretty fun, but my one gripe with it is that sometimes when playing 
 it with somebody, it lags. I'm curious to know if this happens on anybody else's copy of the game, 
 but this is a frequent problem I have when playing this game with friends. 
  
  The graphics look pretty good. The levels are colourful, and have the general Sonic feel to them 
 that you'd expect from the series. The characters themselves look pretty good too. But one of the 
 other highlights of this game is without a doubt, the music. It fits the fast-paced nature of this 
 game, and is extremely catchy. Despite that, there is one minor negative with this game that I 
 have and it's the voices. Thankfully, you don't hear too much from them, but it doesn't change 
 the fact that I would much rather have not heard Sonic's bland, emotionless yells, nor Tails' girly 
 tone, or Cream's screeches. Blaze, Eggman and Eggman-Nega sound fine though.
  
  I'd like to make one thing clear though; Sonic Rush is not totally comparable to the classics. 
 Sonic Rush has a lot of aspects of the classics, such as the fact that it's more of a 2D game and 
 has the standard things like Rings and loops. But other than that, Rush is also quite different 
 to the classics as well. You didn't see the boost system in the classics. You couldn't go between 
 two screens in the classics. With that being said, Rush has a lot of classic elements, but is not 
 meant to be exactly like one of the classic Sonic games. 
  
  Overall, I recommend Sonic Rush very highly. Some people may not like it too much, but for me, 
 this is the best handheld Sonic game I've played so far. Not even the sequel, Sonic Rush Adventure, 
 has topped this handheld Sonic game for me, though the second and third Advance games come pretty 
 close. If you're into fast-paced side-scrolling platformers, in my opinion you cannot really go 
 wrong with Sonic Rush. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kcweezkid
Rating: 8
Date: Dec 14, 2007 1:53 pm PT
Review:  I was very pleased to find this game on sale at target one day (getting a deal on a game that is 
 this good is always nice.) Since that day a couple of weeks ago the game has been about the only 
 one that I have played. It is fun, challenging, and has everything that we come to expect in a 
 Sonic came with a few other quirks that only enhance game play. The game allows you to not only 
 advance through levels in order to beat the game, but you are also given a grade for each level 
 that is reflected by your speed in the level, the amount of rings you have at the end, and your 
 trick bonus. You can also acquire chaos emeralds throughout the game  these are not necessary 
 to advance through the game, but add another twist to the game play. Overall the game has great 
 replay value and offers many different ways to measure your play even after beating all of the 
 levels.
  
  The good, The Bad, The Interesting 
  
  The Good  The game is fast, challenging and looks great on the system. I would have to say that 
 this could very well be the most effervescent game I have played on the system. This makes every 
 level interesting and unique. The difficulty in the game is perfect. Each level gets more difficult 
 and in the end there are plenty of challenges, but it is not over frustrating. The game flows nicely 
 and you can sit down and play it for a couple hours or for 15 minutes. It does a terrific job of 
 incorporating both screens and does not use any gimmicky touch screen techniques in order to just 
 use the technology. It is basically all that we love in sonic games of the past transferred to 
 the DS with a couple of nice additions.
  
  The Bad  There is not much bad about this game. There are a few things that I would like to have 
 known without having to look into them on message boards. These may have been clearly explained 
 in the course of the game through the story that gets a little boring, but I do not have the patience 
 to read what is going on in a story that really doesn't make much of a difference to me. If it 
 is Mario I want to save the princess. Sonic I want to defeat Eggman- I don't need a drawn out story. 
 Overall thought this is just looking for something to complain about  it does not take away from 
 the game in any way.
  
  The Interesting  It is refreshing to see a game that uses both screens as well as this one does. 
 I am also happy to see that the game doesn't get caught up in the hype of the touch screen. Just 
 because the DS has touch screen doesn't mean that every game has to use it. I have found that games 
 that use it less tend to be more fun, unless it is a game like Brain Age or Big Brain Academy that 
 need to use it. This game is a great addition to any collection. It is nothing all that new in 
 terms of the Sonic Series, but why fix something that isn't broken? It has enough new aspects to 
 be unique and sticks to ideas that have always made these games successful. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Blueguy93
Rating: 9.5
Date: Feb 28, 2008 4:36 pm PT
Review:  Sonic Rush is Sonic's first DS game. Obviously, it's my favorite DS Sonic!
  
  The graphics are DKC style, awesome! The music is great and nwonderful!, but the 3rd world's sucks. Audio 
 and sound great! Camera is better and control is better than other sonic's!
  
  
  The game offers much more to the classic platforming style to the Sonic games. They introduce a 
 new character, Blaze the cat (where's Big) , the guardian of the Sol Emeralds (ala Knuckles of the 
 Master Emerald) . It has water slides, 3D background, and super transformation; Super Sonic and 
 burning blaze. It also has 3D point of view boss battles, and a few more pits than Sonic Rush 2, 
 but you get the point.
  
  The game is one of the best DS games of all time, and one of the best of nthe year. Get the game 
 if you have a DS, and play it, because it is awesome! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: JeffNipples
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 10, 2007 10:24 am PT
Review:  Great game that mixes great aspects of old and new school together. First of all there are two different 
 story lines and one introduces new character Blaze with all new moves. Sonic Rush took a while 
 to get used to the controls and was hard near the beginning to get used to but after you figure 
 out the controls this is old school sonic at its best. Add the new school 3D boss fights (which 
 could use some work but overall was pretty decent for a earlier DS game) and this game is great. 
 One of the faster paced sonic games and use of both cutting from bottom to top screen while in 
 fast game play was fun as well! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DesertClawX2X
Rating: 8.5
Date: Aug 15, 2008 8:29 pm PT
Review:  You'd think that after Sonic made the leap from 2D into 3D that any 2D game made afterwards would 
 be put to shame by its 3D counterpart. Right? Wrong. 3D Sonics have been plagued by extremely linear 
 levels, camera problems, and overall poor quality (Shadow anyone?) . Surprisingly, all it takes 
 to rekindle some of the blue dude's past glory is an exhilarating venture onto the DS.
  
  The gameplay takes what made the original games so great (the speed) and then multiplies it by 
 10. Each stage gives you a feeling of extreme speed, even more so than the Advance series. It's 
 fun to outrun a giant rolling ball at over 200 mph, then active a speed boost (at just the press 
 of one button) and go flying into the air. The game even implements an upgraded version of Advance's 
 trick system. Instead of just doing tricks to reach other areas, kill baddies, look cool, etc., 
 tricks are now used to help raise your Tension meter (which is useful for activating speed boosts 
 and entering special stages) . It's also nice to see a stylus-controlled homage to Sonic 2's special 
 stages. Rush also includes another playable character, Blaze the Cat. However, the differences 
 between her and Sonic are negligible.
  
  The music is possibly the most diverse selection of music I have heard outside of the Genesis titles. 
 Whether it's the hard-rock guitar riffs and Michael Jackson-esque vocals (hmmm... sounds like Sonic 
 3, right?) of "Get Edgy" to the ska stylings of "Ska Cha Cha" to the techno-madness of "What U 
 Need", you usually will enjoy the music. Thank Hideki Naganuma (you know, the music composer for 
 the Jet Set Radio series) for the stellar soundtrack.
  
  The 4Kids VAs return once more for this game, but everyone has their own opinions. I find them 
 tolerable at best.
  
  What more can I say? Tight controls, ridiculous amounts of speed, a nice soundtrack, some cool 
 boss battles (minus the occasional button-mashing) , and 2 playable characters. It might be a little 
 bit easy, but that's not a discourager. One of the best Sonic games in years is, once again, in 
 2D. Pick it up; you won't be disappointed. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sonic_kid15
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 15, 2007 2:01 am PT
Review:  sonic is back with some crazy speed side scrolling game! sonic games have been not so swell... 
 but this is his chance to kick that fat plumbers butt with this game. sonic rush is side scrolling 
 and fun, play as sonic and a new person blaze the cat! sonic and blazes world or falling apart 
 and they most stop the evil eggman but... this eggman is a diffrent one much more smarter, eviler. ect. 
 the game rocks the levels are fun the controls are easy. its like a remake of the old sonic games 
 but added a few more things. vs mode is a blast its great it would be good if they added some extra 
 stuff.
  
  sonic rush is the game that will bring sonic back 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DKing2188
Rating: 10
Date: Sep 26, 2007 3:05 pm PT
Review:  This game is awsome! Perfect for sonic fans. I have never played a sonic game so good, i just got 
 it, and it looks really long, there are lot's of new obsticles, and a new character! Blaze the 
 cat is awsome, yes, better than knuckles or shadow. A good and long storyline, and an interesting 
 and compelling plot. Yes, I have played sonic on sega, gamecube, and all the others, sonic rush 
 ds is obviously similar, but way better! New moves too. It only costs 20 bucks at futureshop, I 
 would get this game if you have the money, before any other games, how many games get a rating 
 this good? Blaze and sonic have different levels, they do not do the same ones. 14 levels for each 
 character, 28 levels! But wait! There are 3 acts per level, 2 normal stages and a boss stage! I 
 love it I love it! Sonics level getting the better of you? Switch to blaze the cat and try hers! 
 Oh god this game is good. Heed my advice! Buy it today! the first 2 acts of a level are 2d, the 
 boss is 3d, great bosses by the way, and I have battled only 2! The game is hard, but not too hard. 
 I found the classic sonic games really easy, this one is harder, but once you get the hang of it, 
 you'll be addicted! I don't know how long it takes to beat, 40-100 hours is an estimate, if you 
 are a nerd it will not take as long, if you are a newb, you will quikly get the hang of it, and 
 should be able to beat it in 40-100 hours. Sonic fans, 40-100 hours for you too. It keeps the magic 
 of the old sidescrollers, yet involves todays advanced gaming style. Email me at DKing. Ley@hotmail. com 
 for further questions. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pasxalis1987
Rating: 10
Date: Sep 26, 2007 12:46 am PT
Review:  For those who say that sonic is boring because it does not offer something new and its just about 
 speeding, well thats sonic, and sonic has its funs. I've been playing sonic since a was a little 
 boy and i still love his games!!!
  This game, keeps the same old magic that made us love the blue hedgehog. Speeding up through rumps 
 and smashing everything that it is in his way.
  They add a new move on the character, which is accelerating very fast, smashing everything it his 
 path. To perform this action, once jumpjust press B a couple of times and R, to perform tricks. This 
 adds points to the acceleration cauge. also, points can be airned by killing enemies. This move is 
 really cool and makes sonic run really fast!!! And i mean it!!!
  The bad guy is (guess who!!!) D. r Eggman Nega. The boss modes have some kind of 3D effects, which 
 is really cool and amazing together. The boss gets a bit difficult to defeat in each zone, and so 
 are the acts. Which makes the game more interesting
  The ONLY thing that is a bit annoying, is hearing tails cheering you up in each boss mode on the 
 bottom screan, which is not used in this game.
  Note that a new character is available, Blaze the cat. She is cool and fast .
  If you need anything 
 please messeage me and i will be glad to help!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: radicalplace
Rating: 3
Date: Sep 24, 2007 1:21 am PT
Review:  This game is an embarrassment to the series. The story is little to none. Blaze is transported 
 from another world and is collecting the Sol Emeralds to go back whilst Sonic is getting the Chaos 
 Emeralds and basically Eggman and his parallel counter part are stealing them. Gameplay:
  This Game goes from being to easy to being rediculessly hard and reaching the end of a level isn't 
 always rewarding because if you finally complete act 1 and stuff up act 2 you have to start all 
 over again. The action would be intense if you could go fast enough or if you could slow down. 
 The mixture just comes out looking amateur. Multiplayer:
  Boring
  
  Graphics:
  An appalling mix from 3D sonic on some 3D texture killing creeps in 2D walking like they would 
 in the SNES days. Speaking of Texture is always keeping changing from 2D to 3D and back again.
 
  
  Getting the Game?:
  I recommend renting it first or just not touching it at all. One final message:
  Many quote that 
 this is a fun and classic game. This is a classicy sort of game but it IS NOT megadrive or genesis 
 sonic classic. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: marioman687
Rating: 3.5
Date: Sep 18, 2007 5:22 pm PT
Review:  I dont wanna disagree with anyone but I think this game is really boring in a way! Yes, all Sonic 
 games are always about running real fast but you will get bored really quick cause Sonic has been 
 doing this over 16 years now and we should be bored running all day! If Sonic can just make his 
 games a little better like Mario, cause Mario always did different things, not all his games were 
 saving the Princess!
  
  Story
  
  The same thing every freakin time, Get the chaos emeralds, defeat Dr Eggman and save the world, 
 nothing new here!
  
  GamePlay
  
  Its fine, I love the new moves but it doesnt make a differance cause your basicly just running 
 all day!
  
  Graphics
  
  The Graphics are good, its fine! They really have the same old DS Graphics and I like that!
  
 
  I never even beated the second level of the game, which is the Water Level cause I just dont have 
 fun doing it! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mrmoo51
Rating: 8.5
Date: Sep 9, 2007 12:18 pm PT
Review:  the game goes crazy i mean like u start out fast as sonic playing through exciting levels on land 
 and underwater as 2 different characters and then they added boss battles in 3d which was very 
 fun to do. Also it has like all other games very fun download and wi-fi play and i must say if 
 u do not own this game now i suggest u go buy it now because it is one of the best sonic games 
 i have ever played. I also love what they did with the duel screen its amazing if your on the lower 
 parts of levels your on the bottom screen and higher levels for the higher screen its incredible 
 and all i have to say is its a great game. 8.5! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sonicdude123
Rating: 7.5
Date: Sep 1, 2007 5:18 am PT
Review:  Over the years, Sonic the Hedgehog has gotten away from his roots. What once was an incredibly 
 fast-moving, well-designed platformer series eventually exploded into adventure games, racing games, 
 and the other typical genres that you'd expect from a mascot-type character. While the Sonic series 
 has continued to be popular, many felt that the game was at its peak in those first three or four 
 side-scrollers. Handheld systems have been getting games that have tried to recapture that magic 
 for a few years now, with increasingly positive results. Sonic Rush moves Sonic's 2D adventures 
 over to the DS, and that positive trend continues with a platformer that focuses on raw speed while 
 still managing to do interesting new things, particularly when it comes to the handheld's dual-screen 
 format.
  
  Sonic and Blaze aren't that different from a gameplay standpoint.
  
  The storyline in Sonic games is usually just enough to set you in motion against the longtime bad 
 guy, Eggman. The Artist Formerly Known as Dr. Robotnik has again managed to get his hands on the 
 chaos emeralds, which he'll be able to use to gain ultimate power... unless Sonic shows up to save 
 the day. The wrinkle here is that there's some interdimensional madness at play, too. There's what 
 appears to be an alternate-dimension version of Eggman hanging around, known as Eggman Nega. You'll 
 also encounter sol emeralds and their protector, the game's other playable character, Blaze the 
 Cat. While Sonic's movements tend to leave behind speed lines and blurs, Blaze's versions of those 
 moves have a decidedly fiery tone to them. You can select either character from the menu to play 
 through the levels so that you can see the story from both sides. Blaze's path through the different 
 zones is a bit different from Sonic's, but the gameplay is roughly identical. Since the story is 
 both brief and told through still frames and onscreen text, you might not feel like playing through 
 the same levels twice just to see how the story pans out.
  
  But that's fine, because Sonic Rush is really all about its gameplay. Past Sonic games have been 
 criticized for merely asking you to hold to the right while watching the levels fly by. And while 
 watching the levels' roller-coaster-like designs unfold is certainly a large part of the action 
 in Sonic Rush, the game gives you more to do by adding a few moves. The most prominent of these 
 is a dash attack that you can use to quickly move to top speed, as well as use to bust through 
 most normal enemies. It's a handy move, because the game moves way too quickly for you to stop 
 to think about jumping on enemies. This makes a lot of the game depend on sheer reflex. Can you 
 hit the dash button fast enough to take out enemies before you run right into them and get hit? 
 That's a question you'll be asked multiple times in every level.
  
  Occasionally you'll get locked in an area, and you'll have to defeat a set number of enemies before 
 continuing on. Since that's a bit more confined, you can usually just jump on those guys to move 
 forward. Your dash attack is governed by an onscreen meter that drains when you dash but is refilled 
 when you do tricks. Whenever you hit a bumper or are launched into the air by a bumper, trampoline, 
 or other device, you can pound on the jump button to make Sonic or Blaze spin, flip, or do other 
 tricks. Each trick refills your dash meter a bit. There are plenty of opportunities to do this, 
 so you can use the dash attack quite liberally. Each of the two playable characters also has a 
 midair move that you can execute with the R button. Blaze has a midair hover move, while Sonic's 
 midair move is more of a dash.
  
  The action is displayed on both Nintendo DS screens, and you'll actually move from one to the other 
 as you play. You'll occasionally get launched up to the top screen, or you might miss a jump and 
 then fall down below. The Sonic side-scrollers have usually been very big on multiple paths, so 
 this doesn't exactly mark a dramatic change for the series. However, it's certainly a good use 
 of the system's two screens. The game's boss fights do only take place on one screen, though. The 
 other screen is used to display the boss's life gauge and a cheerleader character that eggs you 
 on. Sonic gets Tails, and Blaze is accompanied by Cream. The characters talk a bit while you fight 
 the boss, usually saying almost there or some other form of basic commentary. The dialogue is awfully 
 repetitive and doesn't add much to the proceedings.
  
  The boss fights are your standard Sonic-style boss fights. Eggman's got a bunch of crazy machines, 
 and it's up to you to let them attack -- before counterattacking. The patterns aren't too tough to 
 deduce, and the bosses repeat a bit. But overall, they're good. On occasion, the boss fights also 
 take you out of the regular 2D perspective found in the rest of the game. This gives the boss fights 
 a more unique look. The game also has bonus stages, which take you back to the halfpipe runs and 
 coin grabs found in Sonic 2. If you can make it through the entire track while meeting specific 
 coin quotas and dodging coin-stealing obstacles, you'll win a chaos emerald. You control the action 
 with the touch screen, using the stylus to steer Sonic and tapping enemies to attack them.
  
  In addition to the single-player mode, you can also play a two-player race mode that has both 
 players running through the same level at the same time. Power-ups appear in the levels that affect 
 how the other player moves, including items that mess up the other player's controls, slow the 
 opponent down, and so on. You can play this two-player mode with one copy of the game as well. 
 It's a decent inclusion, but it doesn't really add much to the overall package.
  
  Sonic Rush uses the two DS screens pretty well.
  
  Graphically, the game looks very sharp and 
 moves very, very fast. The speed has been a trademark of the series, and this is definitely one 
 of the fastest-moving games in the line. Sonic and his foes are rendered polygonally, and they 
 look nice. But they don't really show off a ton of character, either. Sonic Rush is a very colorful 
 game, and the stage designs cover plenty of the archetypal Sonic zone themes, including an underwater 
 level, a nighttime bumper-filled course, and an aircraft-carrier-like military tech zone. The audio 
 includes many of the sound effects that have been with the series since the beginning. There's 
 some occasional speech, though not enough to get annoying, which is nice (because it isn't so hot) . 
 The music, however, is really great. The high-tempo, sample-filled electronic tracks have a Jet 
 Grind Radio-like sound to them, and they fit the action really well.
  
  Sonic Rush is a great Sonic the Hedgehog game that modernizes the old 2D formula a bit, though 
 without losing what made those games so cool in the first place. While the action between the two 
 characters isn't necessarily different enough to warrant playing through the game twice, anyone 
 looking for a good, strong platformer should have fun with this one. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Maximaltroop
Rating: 9.5
Date: Aug 27, 2007 12:37 am PT
Review:  Well, I Heard Alot About this game, and waited for it along time. when i bought it i played it 
 instantly and thought.. oh my god THIS ROCKS This Game Has a new feature in sonic games. sonic 
 can run into the bottom screen which adds more excitement. first i got confused and i thought where 
 did sonic go? When i looked at the bottom screen i felt really stupid. This game has 3d graphics 
 instead of the old 2-d graphics in the sonic advance games which adds even more excitement!! it 
 makes the robots look more real, sonic looks more life-like and much more. One Thing I didnt like 
 is that ryan drummond who voiced sonic in Sonic heroes, adventure 1&amp;2 and all the advance games 
 which instead Jason Griffiths from sonic x voices him, i just think that as ryan drummond in my 
 opinion doesnt have as much an energetic voice. I played as blaze the cat after passing sonics 
 story and it was cool, but not the same. i thought it wasnt as fast gameplay as sonic, but she 
 was more powerful. i really liked the backstory for her. The whole different reality thing rocks, 
 especially when you found out in The Xbox 360 and ps3 game sonic the hedgehog, there is a hedgehog 
 called silver an alternate sonic and blaze is an altenate knuckles. When you pass the game and 
 get all chaos emeralds you can play a super sonic and burning blaze level.
  Overall I really love this game, one of the best sidescrollers sonic ever.
  Thanks To You For 
 Reading
  Have A Great Day! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: painter015k
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 26, 2007 7:15 pm PT
Review:  Sonic Rush is a TRUE Sonic game. The majority of some of the new Sonic games were just not the 
 awesome games they were during the speedy hedgehog's golden age. Rush lives up to its name. As 
 you proceed through the game, you'll notice that each stage is more thrilling than the next. I 
 found the level structure to be long and a little bit frustrating. It took me awhile to beat the 
 game because I kept dying in the same spots I hard time through, but all of the levels are beatable 
 and once I figured everthing out the game became MUCH easier. I found the limited character selection 
 a relief, but having Tails and Cream cheering you on every five seconds during the boss battles 
 can become really annoying, ultimatley leading to loss of focus because thier annoying voices never 
 shut up! It's only when you're in Final Zone, you don't have to deal the annoying cheerleader characters 
 that waste space on the touchscreen. The game's music was also very well done. The theme song, 
 What U Need, is the best out of all the game's music. Rush is an action-packed thrill ride of a 
 game and bests Secret Rings by far and I highly reccomend this game for anyone Sonic fan. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sho565
Rating: 10
Date: Jul 25, 2007 3:18 pm PT
Review:  This game is just revolution its like Sonic Advance and the old Sonic in 1991 is put togather into 
 a cell-shaded looking game. This game is very cool and addictive also challenging a little. Here's 
 where it takes place Sonic is chasing after Dr. Eggamn Nega but what Sonic does'nt know is that's 
 not the real Eggman but he will soon realize that. I love the gameplay because Sonic is so fast 
 in this like I said Sonic Advance is mixed inside of this game. You have the tension meter which 
 allows you to put Sonic in hes Highest speed just by tapping one botton as long as you can keep 
 up the flow with speed and control Sonic your good for this game. If you are interested in side 
 camera angles then this would be a good game for you. Yes Sonic does the homing jump at a certain 
 range. He dashes so charge that if you wanna go up a long hill or get past hard walls or something. You 
 can jump with him hes not a high jumper though. Just by jumping on certain enimies you can destroy 
 the robots. Through the hole game thier are no alians just Eggman robots of all sizes. You do fight 
 Eggman for every boss because hes using a special robot. Sonic Rush is kinda role playing in story 
 mode because you have a choice to select a stage from the story thier only 7 regular zones in Sonic 
 Rush for both of the characters. You do go by % in this game. What I like about this game is Sonic 
 does'nt miss what I mean by that is if Sonic uses a homing jump near a spring he'll hit it. Thier 
 are tamporins in the levels whic allow you to jump on them the more you jump the higher you get.2 
 screens are very helpful in the game Sonic up and down your good. The camera isn't lazy in this 
 game it follows everywhere you go and enough to view mostly everything in your path. During the 
 stages you can collect chaos emerald and the only way to get all 7 is to go to every zone with 
 Sonic and jump on the special gimmicks and use your tension gauge until you start to change colors 
 and go in the special zone. During the special zone you have to get a certain amount of rings or 
 more to get the chaos emerald don't think all are easy because the first one is because thier aircrafts 
 chasing you and they can hit you also thiers bombs, springs with mini games, and bottons to help 
 you get more rings. The last zone is the hardest zone for the chaos emerald so if you get it your 
 a Queen/King (I made that up because its hard to get without cheating) . One more thing when using 
 Sonic in Gameplay Tails will help you if you can proceed with the story what I mean by helping 
 is tell you how your doing and have the proper greetings and good byes. You can select stages with 
 the touch screen. One more thing in Sonic story during the special stage when trying to obatin the 
 chaos emerald you can either use the stylus or something that your confortable with. That's all 
 for Sonic's info about Sonic Rush!!!!!!!! Blaze is alot similar to Sonic but a bit slower I think 
 Shadow is even faster than her. Blaze has the ability to do high jumps and does fire when dashing 
 and jumping. Blaze fights the origanal Eggman and has diffirent stages I forgot to mention Blaze 
 has diffirent music in stages. Blaze gets Sol emeralds by defeating bosses.
  
  If you have completed either Sonic or Blaze stories you can do Time Attack and sound track.
  
 
  I have spent time playing this game day and night.
  
  Good gameplay except when i get to the last special zone its a challenge.
  
  Easy to learn 
 takes about a minut if your familar with simple controls.
  
  What can I say one of the best games of all time. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Dave8D2
Rating: 8.6
Date: Jul 22, 2007 9:18 am PT
Review:  Basically, you play as either Sonic the Hedgehog or Blaze the Cat (who is a newcomer to the sonic 
 series) . After you choose your character, (Blaze or Sonic) you get to start playing with Tails 
 (a two-tailed fox) as your navigator for Sonic, and Cream (a cute little bunny) as your navigator 
 for Blaze. If you play as Sonic you have to find out who Blaze is. If you play as Blaze, you have 
 to find all 7 of the Sol Emeralds (which are parallel to the chaos emeralds except from another 
 universe) .
  
  The storyline is sometimes perplexing but other times not; its perplexing because the whole space 
 time continuum story (a space time continuum is a hole in the universe and is how Blaze the Cat 
 and Eggman Nega got there) is kind of hard to understand, other then that the storyline isnt too 
 perplexing; only those points in the game where they talk about the space time continuum.
  
  The gameplay is good but not the best; it is not the best because all you do is go through 
 the levels and fight bosses, but then the in-level gameplay is really fun/good because there are 
 different things to do, for example, one of the things that separates Sonic Rush from other Sonic 
 platformers is that there is a sled type kart that you ride off a cliff and it gives you a good 
 jump, and there is a hover-board that you ride to go higher in the level but if it hits just one 
 thing, you crashnburn. Also the way to get health (just like in any other games from the series) 
 is to collect rings.
  
  The controls are great, if youve played any sonic game for the Game Boy Advance then this game 
 will be just a pick up and play game, but if it your first time it might take about 5 minutes. 
 The controls that you use most in this game are the A, B, and X buttons but sometimes Y for a special 
 attack, and OF course you use the D-Pad (directional pad) to control the movements of your character 
 such as running right and left.
  
  The graphics are good, I mean they dont push the DS to its limits but they are at least 3-D in 
 a 2-D background and that gives it a nice eye-popping look. The boss battles are another story 
 though, they push the DS pretty close to its limits for a 2-D game. Both these features are put 
 together to give a nice crisp look.
  
  The sound effects arent that great, unless you like hearing a chime every time you get a ring 
 which I like but sometimes it really bothers me. The music is definitely great though, at lest 
 I think so, it sounds like pop but there is no singing (except in some music) and if you can take 
 your self away from the chime of the rings, you will love this music
  
  Sonic Rush is the reason the Sonic series hasn't fully become crap. So, if you have $19.99 to spare 
 and you are bored of the other great DS games, then go to your nearest video game store and pick 
 up Sonic Rush right now. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gameroz
Rating: 7.9
Date: Jul 9, 2007 6:36 pm PT
Review:  The reason i gave this game a 7.9 is because when I first got this game it turn out good the gameplay 
 the grahics and the levels were good. I like the idea that you can become Blaze but when i got to 
 the 5th boss it turn out to be hard usually on all the sonic games i have played the 5th boss would 
 be easy but i guess this game is pretty challenageing So far this is the hardiest sonic game i 
 played but i have played better sonic games then this one for genesis and of course the dreamcast 
 on september 07 the 2nd sonic rush comes out hopefully the second one will be better then the first 
 one 
::::::

::::::
UserName: AmazoLK
Rating: 8.5
Date: Aug 17, 2007 3:54 pm PT
Review:  When I first heard that SEGA was making a new side scrolling Sonic game for the DS, I wasnt too 
 excited to tell you the truth. I thought it was going to be a bust like some of those 3D Sonic 
 games for the Gamecube, but all of those feelings changed when I tried it out for the first time. 
 Sonic Rush is almost exactly like those 2D Sonic games of the Sega Genesis, but with a 3D twist. 
 Sonic and Blaze (new character) are 3D, even in gameplay, and it looks fantastic. Sonic Rush is 
 the New Super Mario Bros. of Sonic games, and it turned out almost as well. Not only does Sonic 
 feel faster in this game, but it was also even more fun to play. Sonic Rush uses DSs two screens 
 also, when youre at a lower part of the stage, the character is on the bottom screen, then when 
 you go near the top of the stage, the character is on the top screen. So is Sonic Rush as good 
 as those old classic Sonic games of the Sega Genesis years?
  
  Eggman, or Dr. Robotnik as he used to call himself, is back, and he got his little greedy hands 
 on those Chaos Emeralds again. There's also an alternate-dimension version of Eggman, known as 
 Eggman Nega. You fight Eggman as Sonic, then Nega as Blaze. Rushs story is quite linear, you complete 
 certain levels in order until you get to the end, then the game is over. Yes, it is like most other 
 Sonic games, and to tell you the truth, Sonic games dont need a really good story to make the 
 game better, and Sonic Rush is a perfect example of that. The cut-scenes are pretty lame though, 
 it shows someones face while theyre talking, and has text at the bottom of the screen, and at 
 some points, there can be a lot of reading, I mean a lot. Blazes story is mainly like Sonics, 
 but the levels are just in different order.
  
  The 2D Sonic you know from all of the old Sega Genesis games is gone, and a new Sonic in 3D is 
 here, and in Sonic Rush, it looks outstanding. The level design is also quite special, and every 
 level looks absolutely amazing. Sonic and Blaze both look great with no pixelated type models. 
 There is no slowdown what-so-ever, even if theres 7 enemies on the screen at once, and youre 
 moving incredibly fast, theres no one touch of slowdown. This is very impressive since youre 
 almost moving fast all of the time hence the name: Rush. The boss battles are extremely well 
 done also being in all 3D at all times. All of the boss models look fantastic and is just amazing 
 to look at. Rush definitely pushed the DS almost to its limits, and if youve played the game, 
 youd definitely agree with me.
  
  Nothing absolutely memorable, but its nothing terrible. Every tune from each level always fits 
 good to what the level is perfectly. All of the music also fits the action perfectly and is very 
 impressive. There are some instances of voice acting too, but it's nothing spectacular but it definitely 
 not annoying, but could obviously be better. The sound effects are still here in Rush that you 
 know from older Sonic games, like the jump sound for example. Sometimes, the sound effects are 
 so recongnizable, that you get a huge sense of nostalgia, and it feels fantastic.
  
  What you remember from Sonic 1, 2, and 3, are back in Rush, and revamped to be one of the most 
 fun Sonic games ever made. You play as either Sonic, or Blaze. Sonic is the normal blue hedgehog 
 that everyone knows about and loves, but Blaze is a cat, that produced fire when she run really 
 fast. Sonic's game and Blaze's game are pretty much the same like I said before, but during gameplay, 
 each animation for jumping, and running are totally different. There is a jump button, like you 
 know from older Sonic games, then there's a Dash Attack that makes you speed up reallu fast in 
 no time at all. This Dash attack can be really useful especially when you need a lot of speed to 
 get up a loop or something. The boss fights are especially unique. Each one is different, and makes 
 use of the 3D parts of the game. One boss, you have to climb onto its arm, then hold the down button 
 while he tries to shake you off. Amazing. Some spots in certain levels make you slide on a rail, 
 and the rails speeds you up really fast. There are also other places in levels that are hot spots 
 and you pick off speed from them. To kill an enemy, you have to jump on them, simple as that, just 
 like the older games. The only thing I dislike about the jumping, is that Sonic or Blaze doesn't 
 always spin while in the air, but you can still kill enemies if you jump on them. In the old Sonic 
 games, if you're not spinning, you can't kill enemies.
  
  It probably takes you about 5 hours to beat both Sonic's and Blaze's story, but there's also single 
 cart multiplayer, which is a race, and it can surpirsingly be really fun at times. In the multiplayer, 
 you only use one screen though, and the bottom screen shows where your opponent is on the map. 
 That's basically it for the game, but stating the game over and playing the whole game over again 
 is not a bad idea.
  
  Sonic Rush is one amazing game, and it should be picked up by anyone who has ever liked a Sonic 
 game before in their life. The duel screen gameplay works perfectly, and the new way to play, is 
 even better then the old way to play. The boss battles alone can keep you hooked because they're 
 amazing in every way. Sonic Rush is also one of the best DS games made to date. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jack_sparrow_28
Rating: 8.4
Date: Jun 29, 2007 4:25 pm PT
Review:  Sonic Rush is Sonic's first step onto the Nintendo DS, and what a step it was.
  
  You can play as either Sonic, or a new, mysterious charcter called Blaze, whose story unfolds throughout 
 this game. The game, like most of Sonic's handheld adventures, reverts to the 2-D view of old, 
 and feels very much like an old Sonic game, but there is some new stuff to keep it fresh and interesting. 
 Even though the game is primarily 2-D, selected parts of the levels, Sonic, Blaze, and all the 
 Robotnik bosses use the DS's simple 3-D capabilities to give the game it's own unique look. The 
 3-D parts of levels, are usually things you can interact with, and will bring the character really 
 close to the screen. This could've been just 2-D, but Sega went the extra mile and made the game 
 look exceptional. Also, you have fancy tricks you can pull off while in the air, which will fill 
 up your tension bar. The tension bar is another new feature, and once it is filled, by performing 
 tricks or beating bad guys, you can do a speed boost which is an invincibility of sorts. You can 
 run straight into enemies without harm, though it you touch spikes, or fall into lava, or any other 
 environmental hazard, that's it. This can get you out of some sticky situations, and gives the 
 game that super speed feel. The game is very easy, and it won't take you long to rack up 99 lives, 
 but this just makes the game less frustrating, and more fun in my opinion.
  
  Another new feature, as mentioned before, is Blaze, a purple cat with fire powers. When she stumbles 
 into our dimension, she is befriended by Cream, and they set off on their adventure. Blaze adds 
 a little more life to the game, as you'll want to see what the heck she's doing here and her connection 
 to the strange new bad guy, but her gameplay is not that different to Sonic, except that it's a 
 bit slower, you play the levels in a different order, and you have different attacks. This is still 
 fun though, and if you get sick of one character, you can switch for a while.
  
  Another nice bit is the cutscenes. Of my few DS games, this is the first to have proper cutscenes. 
 These are not common though, and only normally happen after every other boss, but when they do 
 happen, it looks great, and if you can't hear the voices to well, there are subtitles. Despite 
 this, there are still some parts in the game where it reverts to the simple speech bubble next 
 to the picture method, but this is not much of an annoyance, and is probably for the best, as the 
 cutscenes do take a little bit to load.
  
  And finally, the other new feature is the updated boss fights. You still have to hit Robotnik's 
 machine a few times, though the game goes into a sort of 2.5-D mode, where you can run on a track, 
 but it goes around one central spot. The camera swings around appropriately, and is very well done 
 compared to the camera in other Sonic games. The boss fights are fun, and even though through the 
 DS's 3-D power has changed how the boss fights are presented, you still have the basic feel for 
 the boss fights of the early 90's.
  
  The sound is the kind of thing you'd expect from a handheld Sonic game, and is one of the things 
 that brings it down. The voice clips in-game will become a little annoying after a while, and the 
 music doesn't feel fast in some levels, if you know what I mean. This really brings the game down 
 a notch, and hopefully they will have fixed it for Sonic Rush Adventure coming out September this 
 year.
  
  Sonic Rush is a great Sonic game, and is worth checking out for fans looking to indulge in nostalgia, 
 or new DS owners, as it is a great first title. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: zonetroperalpha
Rating: 7.2
Date: Jun 12, 2007 1:26 pm PT
Review:  Prologue:
  Sonic rush is a classic brought back! It is an ambitious game that is fast , fun and retains that 
 old school feel. Gameplay:
  The gamplay is largely unchanged with the classic boosters, jump platforms, loops and cheesy badguysare 
 still here. You will get to play as sonic the hedgehog, as he goes level after level killing bad 
 guys ( only robots piloted by cute animals) and doing what you did 16 years ago again! If your 
 asking why should play something that i could have played 16 years ago the answear is its a fun 
 game and we havent had a good sonic game in a while. Anyways, after beating the two levels in each 
 of the zone you will face a boss that is challenging at first ( you have to figure out how to kill 
 him) , but then you realze that some of the bosses are quite similar. Now im not saying that there 
 is no variety in the bosse but a few are repetetive. As soon as you beat the first boss you will 
 meat and unlock blaze the cat to play as. Now dont get too excited because blaze isnt all that 
 different, she goes through the same levels as sonic and basicly has the same moves. Blaze also 
 seems to be significantly slower then sonic on one hand , but on the other she gets an abillity 
 to hower down by pressing R.
  
  Sound:
  Sound again is the same thing you heard 16 years ago with a few tweeks to it. Everything you do 
 sounds the same as it did in the first sonic ( thats only for sonic) , with the exception of blaze. 
 Blaze has a few new sounds to her. Now the music isnt catored specificly for any levels except 
 the bosses, in regular levels there is just the standard fast paced pump up music that supossed 
 to make you keep going. The bosse have different muisc, its more of a slow music with an electric 
 guitar in the back .
  
  Graphics: Simply the charachter you play as is 3d everything else is just what you saw in the first 
 sonic game kind of graphics , just pollished up and more clourful.......... PERIOD!
  
  Conclusion:
  If you want some fast paced simple game that has lots of sonic this is for you. The 
 only problem I should have mentioned its not a very long game, only about 8-9 hours (only 8-9 if 
 you played sonic before ,might take a little longer if you havent) .
  
  by: zonetroperalpha ; ) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sonic3456
Rating: 9.1
Date: Jul 1, 2007 7:49 pm PT
Review:  Sonic Rush was my first DS game and is currently my favorite. It only has two playable characters 
 which is nice. They are Sonic and Blaze (should be Shadow) . Sonic is the fast character who collects 
 the Chaos Emeralds and fights Dr. Eggman Nega. Blaze is the jumping character who collects Sol 
 Emeralds and fight Dr. Eggman. The gameplay stays true to the Sonic series and adds a few new features. 
 The most important new feature is the burst attack (or whatever the hell you call it) which lets 
 you move at super speed wtih and aura around you and do damage to any enemy you hit. You can also 
 do the homing attack in this game (only as Sonic) . Basically this is a really fun game and personally 
 my favorite DS game and one of my favorite 2-D Sonic games. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kbaily
Rating: 9.2
Date: Jun 9, 2007 7:03 am PT
Review:  Poor Sonic, he was doing great until the 3rd dimension was introduced and he hit a wall. Even Sonic's 
 creator Yugi Naka said that Sonic was the ideal 2D character and while Mario soared to new 3D heights 
 in Mario 64, Sonic's had trouble just getting his camera to hold still.
  
  Luckily for Sonic, there are handheld games where it's still ok to run from left to right and Sonic 
 Rush brings back that former glory on the DS.
  
  The Sonic Advance series on the GBA was good enough and gave us plenty of side scrolling action 
 and Sega could've easily restricted gameplay to one screen and used the other for stage stats or 
 maps, but they extended the action to both screens and Sonic runs up and down between both. There 
 is some great level design full of bumpers, loops and all the things that we come to love in classic 
 2D Sonic games.
  
  Even more interesting is the boss battles. They only take up one screen with Tails and the enemy's 
 health meter at the bottom but the boss battles are half 2D and half 3D making for some interesting 
 fights.
  
  If you're worried that there's no use of the stylus, don't worry, that's what the special stage 
 is for. When the stage starts, you use the stylus to guide Sonic through the 3D half pipe Special 
 Stage ala Sonic 2 where you have to collect so many rings to reach the Chaos Emerald. There are 
 even points in this where Sonic hits a switch and flies into the air and you collect rings by hitting 
 a series of numbers in a certain amount of time.
  
  The game is fast and fun. The graphics are great, the music really captures the speed of Sonic 
 and the stages. The only complaint is Blaze the Cat. She's a cool new character for the Sonic universe 
 but she has the exact same moves as Sonic and she travels through the same stages making it feel 
 repetitive. On the bright side, this game has less playable characters than other Sonic games meaning 
 more focus on speed.
  
  It's a good DS game if you haven't gotten it yet. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: saibot05
Rating: 8.7
Date: Jun 1, 2007 6:46 am PT
Review:  This was my very first DS game when I bought it at Best buy during the time it came out.
  
  But le t's not get into that for now, just cut it to the chase.
  
  For the gameplay is concerned, 
 it rocks, but not enough to get a Bill and Ted riff out of. The game is a tad simpler as Sonic 
 Advance 3, but with the power of the Touch Screen (thank god for it) , the Special Stage is bliss 
 since it's similar as Sonic 2's Special Stage. The Zones are outrageously rawcous. The game will 
 treat you like you played Sonic CD when you was 8 (the first time I played it) . The Boss battles 
 wasn't up to par as much as the regular Sonic Games. Because for the fact they made a 3D twist 
 while playing it.
  
  Graphics are immensly tasteful in this game. When it's hot, it's hot. When it's cold, it's cold. 
 The awesome thing is it goes way easy on the eyes since it's DS powered.
  
  SFX is not really on key, but opposite for the soundtrack. The soundtrack is more intensly faster 
 to give it that sweet Sonic flavor we'd been given for years.
  
  My Big Props has got to be given to n00b character, Blaze. Not only I love fire, but she gave this 
 game a little more kick as far as gamplay is concerned. The real flaw is her storyling with Cheese 
 *damn those spoilers*.
  
  SR Is a real must have for the DS because it will show you how much potential what the DS can do 
 when it comes to Hi-Octane speed. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: LinkIsMyGod
Rating: 8
Date: May 30, 2007 2:37 pm PT
Review:  True, this is one of the best Sonic games i've seen in a while, but i'm still not saying it's great. 
 The fast-paced 2D scrolling gameplay is very addictive. But a lot of the game is luck. Sonic moves 
 so quickly and enemies show up out of nowhere, causing you to lose all of your rings or making 
 you lose a life. Also, when you're switching from the top screen to the bottom screen, there's 
 a little time in between that you don't see Sonic, which could be costly. The boss battles are 
 fast-paced and very well done, but tend to be a little repetitive and easy, causing you to lose 
 interest fairly quickly. All in all this is a good game and would make a nice addition to your 
 DS library, but wouldn't be reason alone to buy one. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: benleslie5
Rating: 9.2
Date: May 23, 2007 2:53 pm PT
Review:  2D type Sonic games has always been fun your mostly thinking of Sonic Adventure but in 2Dish main 
 story stopping Eggman once again but this time Soinic is in 2 different worlds your mostly in the 
 other side of Sonic's world, becuase you'll see a look alike version of Eggman. But he is called 
 Eggman Nega kinda like Eggman's nobody if you think about it, You also meet and play as Blaze the 
 cat she is the gaurdian of theSol Emeralds. Plus Sonic's friends help out too Tails, Knuckles or 
 Cream, and once you finish the game you'll proppley go after the Choas emeralds.
  Gameplay is really simple but on 2 screens above and bottom screen same 2D graphics that follow 
 the gameplay, if you go through special stage you have to use the tourch screen and you have to 
 use the pen to make your charcter collect whatever rings you need to get an emerald. Sounding and 
 music are great kinda reminds you of Jet Set Radio series if you played them on DC or Xbox.
  I enjoyed playing the game you can really be stuck into the game where you'll find it very enjoyable 
 for anyone and its also cheap to get a hold of. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: relentlessH52
Rating: 8.5
Date: May 20, 2007 12:08 pm PT
Review:  Since his debut on the Sega Genesis, Sonic the Hedgehog has been speeding his way into our hearts 
 with his high speed antics and intense platform action. Sadly, the past few Sonic releases havent 
 really been that good as of late. Ever since the transition to 3D, Sonics games began to slowly 
 decline in quality. Gamers who grew up with him, myself included, began to ask for a game that 
 replicates the good old days of the high-speed hedgehog. Their prayers have been answered in the 
 form of Sonic Rush for the Nintendo DS. Can it live up to the Genesis titles?
  Sonic Rush is the return of Sonics 2D roots in a side scrolling, high speed, thrill ride. In terms 
 of story, theres really not much to speak of. Sonics old nemesis Dr. Eggman (formerly known as 
 Dr. Ivo Robotnik) is attempting to once again try to take over the world using the power of the 
 Chaos Emeralds. The twist here is that there is an alternate dimension of which exists Sol Emeralds 
 exist, and the guardian of those emeralds is a purple female cat named Blaze. Her nemesis is Eggman 
 Nega, which is like a polar opposite of the old Eggman in terms of personality, but skill schemes 
 to take over the world. When the two Eggmans start to work together, it spells trouble for both 
 dimensions, and Sonic and Blaze must work together to stop them. Easier said than done, though, 
 as Blaze is not trusting of others. Can Sonic convince her of them working together as a team?
 
  In terms of gameplay, Sonic is more true to Sonics platforming roots. In those games, hes speeding 
 through levels, defeating enemies, and collecting rings. The goal is obviously to get to the end 
 of the level before you losing all your lives. The rings you gather will protect you from getting 
 hit, but you do lose all your rings after getting hit once. If you get hit when you have no rings, 
 you die. The main differences between this and Sonic games of the past is that there is a dash 
 attack that has limited use, but makes it easer to kill enemies, especially considering that this 
 game is actually faster moving than the Genesis games, and that the game takes place on both screens 
 of the DS. This technique is used so that both screens are used as one large area. The main problem 
 with this is that you have to quickly lower your eyes when the game shifts to the lower screen. 
 Its somewhat disorientating, but its not really much of an issue, thankfully.
  There are some other gameplay aspects. For Sonic alone, he gets a Special Stage that compromises 
 of controlling Sonic with the stylus through a half pipe to collect rings. He also has to watch 
 out for the spike balls in the way. If he gets enough rings when he reaches the end, he obtains 
 a Chaos Emerald, while Blaze simply has to defeat the bosses to gain the Sol Emeralds. That also 
 leads to another element of the gameplay: the boss fights themselves. They take place on the top 
 screen, and although their still side scrolling, it has an isometic 3D look to them. You take on 
 a variety of mechanized machines controlled by either Eggman or Eggman Nega and even take on a 
 surprise boss. On the bottom screen, your partner (either Tails or Cream) will cheer you on and 
 display how much life the boss has. If you bring that bar all the way down, you win, and you get 
 to advance. The battle aspects are cool and pretty intense to boot.
  Graphically, Sonic Rush uses cool looking 2D landscapes that are quite detailed and do have quite 
 a bit of depth. There is also some 3D effects thrown in for good measure, like during the hang 
 gliding sequence and other things. Sonic and Blaze themselves, as well as some other objects, are 
 fully polygonal 3D models and have a lot of animation. Audio wise, its quite a treat. Rather than 
 using a punk rock style like recent Sonic games, this one has a more hip hop soundtrack that is 
 quite fun to listen. There quite cool and may end up listening to the soundtrack alone in the Sound 
 Test. In terms of sound effects, its standard Sonic fare, with the classic ring chime, the appropriate 
 explosions and stuff. There is some voice acting here, but the most youll get is one liners. Of 
 course, the voice acting is quite bad, done by the 4Kids Production team, so youd be wishing that 
 there wasnt any voice acting at all, period. Its not that much of a problem, though, given that 
 there really isnt much of it.
  Sonic Rush is prime example of one simple fact: Sonic belongs in 2D. This is a game that actually 
 lives up to the legacy of the old games, and is very fun to play. While there is some things that 
 bog it down (mainly switching between the two screens and the voice acting) these are really just 
 minor gripes that barely put a dent in the overall experience. Lets see if the sequel (Sonic Rush: 
 Adventure) can live up (or even improve) on this experience!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: squirrelboyfan
Rating: 9.2
Date: Apr 29, 2007 7:19 am PT
Review:  We all know the classic 2D games of our little blue avenger Sonic the Hedgehog on the SEGA Genesis. Unlike 
 the REAL blunders like Sonic Next-Gen with HOR-RIB-ALE stuff like long loading screens. But there's 
 still one game out there that sticks to the origonal gameplay with it's own 3D twist. Sonic Rush 
 features 2 1/2 D gameplay (some 2D, some 3D) . I rate this as a 9.2 because there's nothin' like goin' 
 back 2 the basics! Now the bosses show more 3D, but just enough to keep the game's gameplay in check.
 
  
  Now U see how I recomend this for anyone who loves the clasics. (Or at least what goes back 2 old 
 styled playing experience.) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: iused2bahippie
Rating: 8.5
Date: Apr 24, 2007 9:28 pm PT
Review:  (PRO)
  well this game was what all sonic games were supposed to be, FAST, but on another console might 
 have been a better idea. The gameplay is nice and solid, and graphics are awesome, sound is okay, 
 but on the DS its normal. the intensity of the game it what drives you in, and you want to play 
 it to the end no matter what.
  (CON)
  since there are only two characters, there is a somewhat long and frustrating story line, most 
 of what the characters say are drilled with horrible voice-overs and some of it seems unnecessary. 
 the levels were ok, but some of the time you would run too fast and run right into some spikes, 
 an enemy, or off the stage, sometimes costing you a life, plus at the end of three stages, you 
 had to face an extremely difficult boss, that doesn't give you many rings to preserve your life. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: HuskiO
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 10, 2007 5:34 am PT
Review:  The new super boost and jump dash made the game much better, i love the fast game-play. In this 
 game you can do tricks in the air to get high tension gauge, so i almost never get it empty, and 
 i can super boost my way all over the stage.
  Bosses and special stages (3D) are great, i keep doing story mode just for the special generators.
 
  The highlight of this game is the music that makes the game experience even better, I love every 
 one of the voices and songs.
  Some people may say the story is stupid, but i don't care about the story, I only play for the 
 game. The new character-Blaze is a good upgrade, she is a bit slower than Sonic, but she can jump 
 really high and get to places Sonic can't.
  The game is easy, but even after doing both Sonic and Blaze stories, Getting all emeralds and S's 
 in all stages, me and my brother keep playing the game only to get better time in time attack and 
 its still fun.
  Last thing is the multiplayer, it got some items like Attract and slow to make your opponent go 
 backwards, lose control and slow. Its always Blaze against Sonic. Few people said it isn't a fair 
 match, but Blaze is a good match for Sonic thanks to her better air dash and jump. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: OblivionGuy07
Rating: 8
Date: Dec 10, 2007 4:34 pm PT
Review:  Sonic Rush Review
  The Good: Graphics are fairly decent for a Sonic portable game and the 3-D additions throughout 
 parts of the game are surprisingly good. Sonic is really fast especially with the new ability to 
 perform an extra dash known as a rush. Blaze is a great new playable character. The music is also 
 worth hearing. Multiplayer is featured and it is decent. The game is incredible with the use of 
 both screens.
  The Bad: This game is fairly short and can be beaten in roughly 5 hours, including all of the chaos 
 emeralds. You can only play as two characters which is a smaller supply than the recent Sonic the 
 Hedgehog games. There are limited things to do in the game, aside from the main story. Boss battles 
 are creative but they are all very easy. There are only two difficulties and both are too easy. 
 Sonic Rush makes hardly any use of the touch screen.
  Sonic Rush was Sonic's first debut on the Nintendo DS. A lot of people liked this game while other 
 not so die hard Sega fans despised it. Me, in case you are wondering, I personally am not so sure 
 whether I liked it or hated it. I have many mixed reactions about this game. It does indeed have 
 potential but it falls short as far as game length and the overall replay value. Graphics: Well, 
 this game seems similar to the Sonic Advance series. The graphics are pretty nice and the designs 
 are bright and various throughout each Zone. Although the Zones are varied, the two Acts are all 
 the same as far as the background goes. This may have been true for all Sonic games but it is getting 
 old and should be changed a bit. Most of the game is 2-D but there are some terrific 3-D visuals. 
 I thought they were nice touches and they actually work well. Boss battles are 3-D and they are 
 great. The bosses look neat too. Special Zones are also 3-D and they look pretty cool but each 
 of the seven special stages repeats themselves completely. Graphics are above average and they 
 look nice, but I have seen much better from the Nintendo DS during the time Sonic Rush was released, 
 as well as huge improvements from future DS games. 7/10
  Sound: Music is a Sega trademark usually, and Sonic Rush has some alright tunes. It's not that 
 heavy metal junk you hear in the recent 3-D Sonic games. I really enjoyed some of the tunes. The 
 sounds as far as enemies and robots are nice and it reminds of the great old school Sonic games. 
 The music goes right along with the speeding hedgehog breezing through each of the Zones. Even 
 though there is some nice music, it is repeated in each Ac t of the Zone. This isn't as bad as 
 it sounds since there are many Zones and the Acts are short so sound is still good. 8/10
  Game Play: Sonic is a fast paced character and this game meets no exception. With simple controls 
 and all, this game is indeed fun. As if he was going fast enough, he can go faster with the rush 
 technique. By pressing the Y or X button, you can get an extra speed boost. While the game starts 
 really easy (in the first Act you can win by holding the right arrow on the D-Pad the whole time 
 and pressing no other buttons) , it picks up. You'll be jumping for dear life and slowing down to 
 make sure your doing things right. The problem is that each Act takes 2 or 3 tries at the most 
 to complete. If you are new to the Sonic franchise; however, the Zones may take an hour at a time 
 which is double the time fans will take to breeze through this simple game.
  Sonic Rush has some nice additions that no other portable Sonic games have. My favorite new twist 
 is the use of both screens. Even though the gap may annoy the living heck out of you, it is still 
 awesome and it isn't as bad in this game as it is in other DS games using both screens. You'll 
 be going up and down ramps and grinding rails as you travel across the double screen. It is exciting 
 and you'll be on your toes the whole way through. Another addition is Blaze the Cat. Blaze is also 
 extremely fast, but a bit slower than the famous blue hedgehog. Blaze uses fire to shroud around 
 her when doing moves, such as the spin-ball, and when she jumps or speeds up, fire will form around 
 her. To complete the game, you must beat Sonic and Blaze's story mode. It may take up to 5 hours 
 to finish, but most can beat it in roughly 3-4 hours. The game is quick, so it ends quickly. Luckily, 
 there is more to do, after you complete all of the bosses and Zones in each of the character's 
 stories. You have to then collect the chaos emeralds. I won't say how to since it may spoil things, 
 but it is equally as challenging as it was in the Sonic Advance series, if not harder. Getting 
 the chaos emeralds takes a lot of patience and it is hard. The good part is that the Special Zones 
 you need to get to feature use of the touch screen. You control Sonic with the Stylus. Unfortunately, 
 I would much rather have used the control pad. This whole touch screen feature in getting the chaos 
 emeralds isn't as enjoyable as it sounds. In total this game takes 5-7 hours to complete.
  So you're done with the story, and you're wondering if there is anything else to doSadly, the 
 other available modes are dull and last an hour at the most. Time Trial is alright but I would 
 probably stick with the multiplayer Yeah, this game has multiplayer and it isn't bad like the 
 multiplayer in other Sonic games. You'll be happy to hear that you race friends and you don't have 
 to battle them or play boring mini games. You need one copy of the game but there is no Wi-fi, 
 since this was an early release. Multiplayer is fun and you pick any Stage you unlocked in story 
 to race one friendone. This is because there are two characters. My problem with the multiplayer 
 is that Sonic is better than Blaze so he usually has the edge. This makes things one sided, but 
 there are easy screw ups throughout the stages. Multiplayer is good and not bad this time.
  As a quick wrap up on the game-play section, Sonic Rush offers new features and it is fast and 
 intense. The game is easy and simple but not so bad. Multiplayer is better than expected and not 
 something thrown on at the last second. The double screens are great but the use of the Stylus 
 is pointless. 7/10
  Conclusion: Sonic Rush does much better than Sonic's major titles for sure. It is a good platformer 
 and you should check it out. It gets its score of about an 8/10.
  -Oblivion 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kirewpower
Rating: 8.3
Date: Jun 23, 2007 6:50 pm PT
Review:  Will this is a cool game. For sonic fans it may be a bit more hard. I myself do not usaly like 
 a hard game, but this one is not too hard. Infact I liked this one much more then the GBA sonic 
 games. Thous felt kinda like a roler coster and less like a patformer but this has some great stofe 
 and also this has tons of cool tricks you can do by pressing the B or R. Form doing all those tricks 
 you get more boost energy. So that boost energy lets you press B and then get a speed boost and 
 that gives you exstra speed. This speeds up the gamplay alot and also gives sonic games gameplay 
 some much needed depth. The grafics also are cool and cartoon like. As usawal the story sucks but, 
 at least they tryed this time but hey the game is fun so if you find this cheep then total get 
 it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Jason_IX
Rating: 8.7
Date: Apr 5, 2007 12:41 pm PT
Review:  The Sonic franchise has been a little down since its entrance to the 3-D world of gaming. Many have 
 suspected that the end of the all-time classic hedgehog was somewhere near. This game has returned 
 Sonic to his old-school 2-D roots, and with an astonishing success. Sonic Rush is a great game for 
 any standars and proves that Sonic is not yet dead.
  
  The story is quite more complicated than previous 2-D Sonic games. It begins with the usual plot, 
 which means Sonic is off to obtain the 7 scattered Chaos emeralds and stop Dr. Eggman from world 
 domination, but an unexpected event causes Sonic to follow a mysterious character called Blaze, 
 which she's also involved into something that has to do with Eggman and a figure which looks like 
 Eggman but is not Eggman. Add up that as the game progresses, the entire world is becoming a mess 
 for an unknown reason, there's a lot of things to investigate and think about. All, of course, is 
 revealed in the end.
  
  The gameplay is old-school Sonic-styled, with a few new things added up. The result is still a 2-D 
 Sonic experience and this can't be anything but good. You move with the D-pad and jump with the 
 A button. Other than that, every character ( there are 2 characters, 3 if you count the last stage 
 ) has his unique attacks and moves. Most moves, if done successfully, add a specific % to the bar 
 on the right side of the screen. That bar can reach up to 300% and it's very useful, if you keep 
 in mind that this bar, by the amount of % it has, can be used as a powerful attack to knock enemies 
 out of the way. Of course, the % will diminish while you are attacking, and reaching 0% means your 
 attack will come to a sudden end. Use that bar wisely.
  
  Moving down to other parts of the gameplay, you can feel the adrenaline raising to the limits, 
 since Sonic ( or Blaze-yes, you will control her too ) will run as fast ( or faster) as the wind. Truly, 
 you 'll sometime lose control or your characters location due to the extreme speed. Well, what do 
 you expect from a pure Sonic game.... anyways, the game's not all running, since you have to fight 
 ( enormous ) bosses and locate the 7 Chaos emeralds ( only if you're Sonic-Blaze concertrates on 
 other things ) . However, obtaining all 7 Chaos emeralds is a frustrating job to be down. You see, 
 in all 7 Zones ( in each Zone there is the Emerald with the same number ) there are a few gimmicks 
 scattered throughout the stages ( each Zone has 2 stages-ecxept Final and Extra Zone ) that will 
 actually transport you to the Emerald's area. Your goal is to obtain that specific Emerald, and 
 obtaining it requires you running in a closed area, collecting as much rings as possible. Mind you, 
 the Emerald levels are 3-D, which makes the ring collection even more difficult. Having the required 
 amount of rings at the end of the Emerald level, you'll earn the Emerald. If you haven't got it, 
 then ou'll be kicked out of the stage, which is darn aggravating. If you get all 7 Chaos emeralds, 
 you'll face a surprise..... but I won't spoil it for you.
  
  From sound and graphics, even the most pessimistic will admit that the game hasn't flaws on that 
 section. Maybe the sound would offend some with it's quite spastic voice-recordings, but the tracks 
 are classics and the graphics are very well done.
  
  The cons of this game do -unfortunately- exist, like the lack of value. But I suppose those are 
 minor problems in front of the pros. Sonic fans will love it, no matter what.
  
  Sonic Rush is still an awesome game, just because it's similiar to the older Sonic games. Imagine 
 the quality. Sonic is not dead, he has still enough power to get back to his old, good glory. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: melchenyi
Rating: 6
Date: Apr 4, 2007 10:01 pm PT
Review:  Firstly, I didn't play this game for long, so I won't comment too much, lest people get offended. 
 Good graphics and sound as with the usual sonic games. But not a big change from the previous Sonic 
 titles, still the same movements and not much new features. Could introduce some touch screen features. 
 Plus the story is kinda lame and does not warrant play a second time.
  
  Also a tad too fast is the action and movement for me and I couldn't even see where I was going. 
 So in short, if you're not someone with fast reaction, you might wanna avoid it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: endgame99
Rating: 8.5
Date: Apr 2, 2007 6:49 pm PT
Review:  Sonic Rush is one of those games that makes you believe in Sega again. In my generation, it was 
 the Sega Genesis vs. the Super Nintendo Entertainment System, and I had a Genesis, along with five 
 Sonic games  Sonic 1, 2, 3, Sonic &amp; Knuckles, and Sonic Spinball. I have never been so engaged 
 in a character like Sonic the Hedgehog, and Sonic Rush is no exception whatsoever.
  
  Gameplay: Sonic Rush has three very distinct feels to it. The first feel is very much like Sonic 
 3 and Sonic &amp; Knuckles. It is blazing fast. You will be running along using new gameplay mechanics 
 and smash into some enemies because Sonic was going too fast around a loop with poor foresight. 
 A minor annoyance to be overlooked. The second feel is that of the special stages in Sonic 2. This 
 mode pits you in a half pipe and your goal is to collect as many rings as possible. This mode also 
 utilizes the stylus and touch screen. Instead of moving Sonic with the d-pad, you use the stylus 
 to direct him where to go. This is nice, since you can move Sonic faster with the stylus than with 
 the d-pad. There are also balloons that can be hit, whereby Sonic flies into the air and you have 
 to tap numbers in order, Elite Beat Agents style. The third feel to Sonic Rush is that of the boss 
 battles, which is similar to Sonic Adventure for the Sega Dreamcast. The field still has a two-dimensional 
 feel to it, but a three-dimensional look. All of the platforms only have two axes, but there is 
 depth and solid polygons. Even the bosses are 3D, making for some very interesting fights. Through 
 the game, you will also play as Blaze the Cat, which will add some strategy to the way the game 
 is usually played. There is also a time attack and battle mode, which add great replay value.
 
  
  Graphics: Sonic Rush also has three very distinct looks to it. The first look of the levels is 
 two-dimensional, but on closer inspection, there are three-dimensional elements. Sonic himself, 
 some moving, interactive parts, and all enemies are 3D. Sonic runs in an X/Y fashion most of the 
 time, except in one level. The special stages are in mostly 3D. Sonic and the half pipe are 3D. 
 The rings could be simple groups of pictures set to rotate. The enemies and mines are 2D, but have 
 depth, since they rush at you. As aforementioned, boss battles are in complete 3D, as in Sonic 
 Adventure.
  
  Sound: Sonic Rush has the basic sound effects of most Sonic games. It does have a much improved, 
 updated soundtrack packed with addictive techno beats. The music makes you feel like you really 
 are blazing past the levels at breakneck speed. I just want to know where I can get this for my 
 iPod.
  
  Value: This game is very worth the buy, considering its $19 new and $17 used. I only buy used 
 games, and I have a discount card, so this game was very worth it. Also, new DS games run around 
 $35, so this is a great deal. It also has high replay value, since you can play time attack and 
 battle modes with other people. Collecting the Chaos Emeralds will also keep you on your toes for 
 quite some time.
  
  Reviewers Tilt: I am, without a doubt, tilted. I love Sonic and that will never change. Sonic 
 has always been my favorite game mascot, and this game takes the cake. This is a very good buy, 
 I recommend it to anyone with a DS. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: chao9999
Rating: 8.6
Date: Apr 10, 2007 6:03 pm PT
Review:  Sonic Rush was an odd title, it seems like they were trying to do something new , and yet also 
 tried to give the DS a taste of 2-D Sonic, and both of them kinda fall flat, but that doesn't stop 
 this from being a great game.
  
  Gameplay: 8
  
  If you've played a 2-D Sonic game, then you've pretty much played this, although the new rush meter 
 and the trick system are kinda refreshing. You've got the basic jumping, spinning, and running, 
 not to mention the common everyday kinda-challenging boss, but wait, now there's this huge amount 
 of little bars on your left! As you kill enemies, hit checkpoints, and do tricks, your meter fills 
 up. When you press X you instantly hit top speed, kill enemies when you hit them, and drain the 
 rush meter. If you fill the meter, then for a long time it stays full while you Rush , but if you 
 don't get at least a moderate amount of points/kill some enemies, it'll go down. The meter has 
 4 levels, with the fourth level glowing, meaning that it won't empty. As you Rush the meter drains, 
 but tricks will quickly fill it up. After getting launched in the air (as long as you didn't just 
 jump, and didn't just run off a ramp) you can press B up to 3 times for your character to perform 
 tricks, and finish with A to get some SERIOUS points.
  This brings me up to the next point: your character . As you could easily tell from the packaging, 
 there are two playable characters, the ever lovable Sonic, and the newbie Blaze. Unfortunately, 
 Blaze plays, quite literally, EXACTLY like Sonic, with the only differences being that Sonic gains 
 speed a bit faster, and when you press R, instead of a speed boost, Blaze slowly hovers. Also, 
 the game suffers from the same problem many 3-D Sonic's have had, that being that almost 80% of 
 the time that you die, it's because you fell into a bottomless pit that you had no time to react 
 to. Plus, in many levels, you sometimes run upside down, and you don't know which direction to 
 press, sometimes you'll almost subconciously press the opposite direction to run in the right direction 
 , and then fall off of the cieling. This isn't helped by the fact that most of the time you do 
 so, there's a bottomless pit and fat rock after you. Uh oh.
  At the end of every two levels, you fight a nice refreshing boss, and all of them are somewhat 
 unique, although two of the bosses use the same model and similar attacks.
  In every level there's also a special stage that can be accessed if you have enough of the Rush 
 meter filled. If you do, you grab on it, and start Rushing until you disappear, and you are taken 
 to a Sonic 2-esque special stage, except you control Sonic with the touch screen, these levels 
 are reletively hard, sometimes it seems unfair, others too easy, but otherwise they're a nice touch, 
 and neccesary to complete the game.
  
  Graphics: 9
  
  For a DS game, the graphics are pretty nice, Sonic's model is surprisingly detailed, along with 
 the bosses, and so is Blaze's. The enemy sprites are all fine, and the backgrounds are relatively 
 good. When you're Rushing , you have this neat effect on you, and the special stages look neat. 
 Not much else to say.
  
  Sound: 9
  
  All the music is upbeat, with some slight lyrics, and some are really nice, like the Boss music, 
 the last boss music, and the main theme. Another nice point is that Blaze's levels have altered 
 versions of the music. Not much to say here either though.
  
  Story: 8
  
  Some cat comes outta nowhere, Eggman apparently gives himself a new name. and the upper part of 
 the world map is distorted. Nobody seems to notice, and the story is told through some pretty basic 
 text based cutscenes that show some nice CG of the character that's talking. The story isn't BAD, 
 but there just really isn't one.
  
  Bells and whistles: 8
  
  You can play multiplayer single-pack competition, which can be fun if your friend's good at Sonic, 
 and there's still a sound test, as usual.
  
  Overall: 8.3
  
  Sonic's DS outing was nice, but it felt too much like old games, and while the Rush meter and nice 
 boss battles are refreshing, it's not much different, it's essentially a 2.5D Sonic Advance. In 
 fact, I'd reccomend the Sonic Advances if you like this, and if you found this easy, try Sonic 
 Advance 3, that's a bit tougher, and DEFINITELY longer. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: aal9922
Rating: 9.1
Date: Mar 24, 2007 1:30 pm PT
Review:  this game is one of the best sonic games in his series. i've already played sonic advance 1,2, and 
 3, but when this game came out, it was better than all of them. i had this game since it came out 
 and i never sold it because i would never sell a sonic game in my life. i beat this game about 10 
 times in a row and unlocked the last story. the last story was the best because sonic and blaze 
 went super and had to beat eggman and eggman nega at the same time which was cool. if you have a 
 nintendo ds and dont have this game, i think that that person should get this game. this game is 
 about only $20 but this game is worth it to buy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Afros11
Rating: 9.3
Date: Mar 14, 2007 10:07 am PT
Review:  This is the best Sonic game ever made, it's probably the fastest. But Sonic &amp; Blaze may be 
 from different universes but they sure play the same Sonic is faster but his acrobatical skills 
 arn't as good as Blaze's. Both characters do the exact same levels &amp; bosses &amp; there is 
 slowdown in the single-cart multi-player &amp; on certain levels but you wont really notice it 
 since you are going so fast. But besides this it's an excellent game, the special stage is just 
 like the ones in Sonic 2 except you control him with a stylus instead of a D-Pad &amp; it works 
 brilliantly. The music is great the classic crazy music in a sonic game. Levels that remind you 
 of classic levels in past games, full 3D boss battles that look great &amp; speed that has to be 
 seen to be believed&amp; it's neo even made by Sonic Team but Dimps the people behind the Sonic 
 Advance titles which were great &amp; now it's been out for over a year it's cheap too with most 
 shops selling it for under 20 quid. Conclusion: Buy this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: arthas242000
Rating: 7.9
Date: Mar 13, 2007 1:11 pm PT
Review:  Even too this day I can still remember playing the original Sonic on my Sega Genesis and being 
 completely blown away at the amazing sense of speed and adrenaline this game pumped into my veins 
 as a kid. Now that Sega no longer makes platforms (which totally sucks... I still love you Dreamcast) 
 Sonic has ventured off onto different systems. Most noticeably nintendo which used to be such hardcore 
 rivals in the early days of gaming. Yet, now we see Sonic on the Nintendo DS, with a new sense 
 of old schoolness if you will. Sonic is finally ready to rekindle that lost niche of pure action.
 
  
  Story: It's a basic Sonic story; Robotnik has gone into a different dimension and stolen the Sol 
 Emeralds. As sonic you have to defeat Eggman
  before he destroys the world. Basic sonic story, no real twist or turns!!
  
  The gameplay is 
 a throw back of the original sonic games. Which gives the user a great sense of speed. Unfortunately 
 thats all this new sonic game offers. The only really new feature is the nice 3d/2d cel-shaded 
 graphics. Which though impressive doesn't offer enough in the overall presentation. In the end, 
 if it ain't broke don't fix it mentality works for this game.
  
  The game is extremely short and the only real incentive to replay the game is to play with blaze 
 who isn't sonic so I really don't care about that character and her weird story. Sega team has 
 fallen into this trend of introducing new
  crazy characters ever game. Yes it worked in Sonic the Hedgehog 2 &amp; 3 but it isn't working 
 anymore; characters that are being introduced aren't even related to sonic in alway shape or form. 
 Perfect example is blaze, she is from another dimension, the only reason why she comes into contact 
 with sonic is because Dr. Robotnik went to her dimension to steal the emeralds. Sonic team I love 
 you guys... I have been following you since the beginning but please quit adding new CHARACTERS!! 
 It's called SONIC RUSH not BLAZE OR TAILS OR KNUCKLES rush it's SONIC RUSH so how about sticking 
 to just sonic from now on... P. S. And whatever you do Sonic team please for the love of god, don't 
 use Shadow anymore please i beg you don't use him!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Antthetitch
Rating: 8.7
Date: Mar 2, 2007 7:38 am PT
Review:  To be honest I wasn't at all surprised to hear there was a sonic game on the DS since every console 
 has a sonic game on it.
  
  I only recently got the DS and my first choice of game was rush as it looked good and I had breifly 
 played my friends copy of it before I got my own. I didn't have high expectations of the game, 
 I expected it to be similar to the sonic advance games.
  
  The story isn't that great to be honest, although I do find parts of it to be somewhat humourous. 
 The story features 2 new characters, Blaze the cat and Eggman-nega. Nega is a complete rip-off 
 of eggman, exactly the same with a few colour changes here and there. Blaze is quite an interesting 
 character although she could have had a better introduction in my opinion.
  
  The gameplay is fun, brings me back to the classic era when some of the best sonic games were made. 
 The gameplay is similar to the sonic advance series with 7 zones, 2 acts per zone and a boss at 
 the end. Going from one screen to the other can be irritating at times but on the other hands, 
 it makes it different from the others. The special stages were fun too, even if it was a rip-off 
 of the sonic 2 special stages (you have to guide sonic through a half pipe with the stylus collecting 
 enough rings before the end) the zone 7 special stage was challenging and hard but IS do-able, 
 plus it's worth it as you get an extra zone for getting all 7 chaos emeralds.
  
  Tricking is added, where you can trick on rails to get points and fill up the speed boost meter, 
 which makes the game more enjoyable. The multiplayer game is great, racing against someone on levels 
 you've unlocked. The good thing is only one of you need the gamecard to play it.
  
  The only main thing that I don't like about the game is the ranking, you either get S, A, B or C. 
 Getting a B is fairly easy enough but it is very difficult to get S ranks, but then again you don't 
 get anything for getting S-rank anyway.
  
  The other thing that I found dissapointing was the variety, some of the levels were repetitive 
 and Sonic and Blaze had the exact same levels, the game would be more fun if they had different 
 levels. I don't like the voices on the game much, thankfully they don't talk too much but ironically 
 the non-playable characters voiced were Tails and Cream, 2 of the worst voice of the 4kids sonic 
 series in my opinion.
  
  But other than that the game is great fun and I'd reccommend it to any sonic fan 
::::::

::::::
UserName: warriora
Rating: 7
Date: Feb 22, 2007 7:40 am PT
Review:  when it comes to Sonic he's truly at peace with himself and lives his days as some of us should. 
 he doesn't worry too long over one single issue and only allows the big things to get to him. this 
 game signifIes that part of his personaliy and brings out the peacful side first. When the enemy 
 (Eggman ) apears he quickly does not hesitantly rushes in to take him down. then come to find out 
 thers two of the same villians and they are very similar, While eggman nega surpases egman in his 
 mechinized devilish monstrosities. not to mention theres a new character Blaze the Cat you must 
 investigate and learn about as you go along your own story. mostly sonic and blaze the game play 
 is typicaly the same Sonic with a added twist thers more gimmics and now a tension meter which 
 alows a more pwerful charge attack style dash. and the speed of the game is nothing to underestimate. 
 so if you like sonic and you enjoy the fast paced acton youl enjoy this game for months on end. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: siversonicboom
Rating: 8.8
Date: Feb 21, 2007 6:05 pm PT
Review:  Everybody knows Sonic has had a Bad 3D experience. Another 2D is kinda refreshing.
  
  The Good:
  The Gameplay is exactly how it should be. You run fast in a Left-ward Direction, hit 
 some springs, kill some robots and jump over endless pits of sheer doom. This Sonic, however, has 
 Sonic moving across both screens as you advance through the bright and well-designed levels. The 
 game also features a boost meeter that fills as you do stunts and collect rings. The boss levles 
 are excellent. You get to fight the bosses in 3D using 2D controlls. It works very well and is 
 quite cool. During bonus stages, you get to run on tracks simmiler to the ones from Sonic 2, but 
 you use the Stylus to contol yourself and get the number of rings that you are required.
  All the gameplay is super smooth and fun. Music and story are not bad either.
  
  The bad:
 
  The voice acting is CRAP!! It is the actors from the Sonic X cartoon that make all the characters 
 sound like morons! Why cant they just get some better actors already? The game has a desent replay 
 value, but after beating it 100%, which is not very hard even on normal, you might not play it again. 
 If you enjoy 2D platformers and have a DS, you will most likely enjoy this.
  
  For Sonic fans: Highly recommended! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: derickthegamer
Rating: 8.7
Date: Feb 17, 2007 5:30 pm PT
Review:  After years of having us suffer through Shadow the Hedgehog, plot additions that don't belong, 
 and un-Sonic like features, S. Team has finally gone back to its early-90s style and, consequently, 
 its early-90s success.
  
  Its limitations (such as the requirement to memorize levels in some spots) are incredibly minor, 
 with the only real problem for this game being its length. If you're good at platformers, you'll 
 beat it in a few hours. But this problem is minimized by the fact that it's such a classic platformer 
 that those good enough to beat it quickly will want to play it again.
  
  With cool three-dimensional boss battles, hopefully the 3-D sonic curse is broken and Secret Rings 
 for Wii will be similarly awesome.
  
  (Note: Rent it first should really say only rent it because, unless you're a platformer enthusiast 
 like myself who plans to beat it several times, or planning on finding all of the extras and beating 
 it as both of the similar characters [the levels are the same for each, though you do them in a 
 different order,] you're probably better off renting it for a week and beating it then. It's a 
 short game.) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: brandon2811
Rating: 9.1
Date: Feb 16, 2007 1:35 pm PT
Review:  In this game you get to see a brand new character from a different world. It says she is only for 
 this game but I think she will be in a couple others as well. she is almost as fast as sonic, and 
 is more unique in the fact that she is pyrokinetic! she comes from another world, and even has 
 her own version of chaos emeralds! how cool is that? blah la blahl a blah la blah la blahl a blah 
 lablah la blahl a blah lablah la blahl a blah lablah la blahl a blah lablah la blahl a blah lablah 
 la blahl a blah lablah la blahl a blah lablah la blahl a blah lablah la blahl a blah lablah la 
 blahl a blah lablah la blahl a blah lablah la blahl a blah lablah la blahl a blah lablah la blahl 
 a blah la 
::::::

::::::
UserName: oboewan9999
Rating: 9.3
Date: Feb 16, 2007 9:52 am PT
Review:  Released in 2005, this game promised to be a nice break from the utter pieces of suck that have 
 come to America in the form of recent 3D Sonic games. And, in my opinion, it delivers.
  
  Gameplay: 9/10
  THIS is what the Sonic series is all about: high-speed platforming, ring collecting, 
 high-speed platforming, predictable but challenging bosses, and high-speed platforming. This game 
 delivers even more high-speed platforming than other Sonic games, mostly due to the new trick system: 
 button-mashing tricks used during spring-jumps and grinds, as well as massive enemy damage, fill 
 up a meter that can be used to easily do a high-speed invulnerability dash. This makes for even 
 fewer breaks between periods of platforming action, as you don't have to charge up Spin Dashes. 
 In addition, the game features touch-controlled Sonic-2-style special stages, which I am an absolute 
 sucker for.
  
  Graphics: 8/10
  First, let me get this out of the way: The Nintendo DS might just be the best cel-shading machine 
 that man has ever made. That being said, Sonic Rush's inventive combination of 3D cel-shaded characters, 
 2D environment sprites, and scrolling backgrounds gives this game an art style like few other games 
 on the market today. All this is amplified by the double-tall action stages (a nice touch: the 
 HUD is always on the screen you are on, so you don't have to move your eyes as much) and the 2.5D 
 wraparound boss battles.
  
  Sound: 9/10
  With this game, Sega went from the synthesized melodies of previous 2D Sonic games to a high-speed 
 eurobeat-esque soundtrack that, frankly, matches the game's mood perfectly. Ordinarily, in a game 
 that uses dialogue stretches to advance its plot, I'd demand voice acting... but then I realized 
 that this is a Sonic game. At least what little voice acting is there (yells of Hey! and Cool! 
 and stuff like that from Sonic, Tails, Blaze and Cream) is bearable... more than I can say from 
 recent Sonic games.
  
  Value: 10/10
  This game is SO worth the twenty-five dollars I paid for it. Seven zones, each with two acts and 
 a boss, equals a game that I'm still playing after months... and I still haven't bothered to unlock 
 the super final boss and bonus zone. (Yes, I know, I suck.) The zones all follow the franchise's 
 rules for zones (forest zone, water zone, Vegas zone, desert zone, et cetera) , while still feeling 
 different from any other Sonic game. Plus, there's a multiplayer mode that uses all of the game's 
 action stages, and a time attack mode. The only quibble I have is that the two playable characters, 
 though they reveal two different parts of the storyline and play the zones in a different order, 
 aren't that different.
  
  Overall: 9.3/10
  Buy or rent: Buy 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kirby456
Rating: 8.6
Date: Feb 12, 2007 5:52 pm PT
Review:  I admit it, Sonic has been losing his touch lately. With those games like Shadow the Hedgehog, 
 I ain't complaining about any guns, but that just plain slows you down. Sonic Heroes I found to 
 get plain boring, plain quick. Sonic Rush actually stayed true to the original Genesis roots. You 
 play as good ol' Sonic and a new character, Blaze the cat. Yeah, it feels like some renewed version 
 of Sonic and Knuckles, but its good trust me...
  
  Gameplay 8/10
  
  Actually, it was classic Sonic action, with a small touch of Sonic Adventure during the boss battles. 
 I also admit, it's really fast, and you'll be running into enemies from time to time, but I've 
 gotten used to this by now. Also, the Blaze the cat story is hard. But let's not forget how challenging 
 Knuckles' story was back in the game Sonic and Knuckles. You couldn't even defeat the boss from 
 Zone 6 Act 1 if I remember, because he has the shortest jump. So when I start hearing a bunch of 
 punks, reviewing this Sonic game as too hard for Blaze's storyline, I don't wanna hear it! Oh, 
 yeah I also didn't like that boost system... Using spin dash uses energy, guess Sonic Team wanted 
 to give people more of a challenge... And that's another thing. I'm sick and tired of hearing people 
 complain about how Sonic games are too easy (Classic Genesis titles) then when they release a challenging 
 one, people give it low ratings, complaining that it's too hard, I mean c'mon!!!
  
  Graphics 10/10
  
  Actually the graphics were pretty good. They were along the lines of New 
 Super Mario Bros. and the backgrounds were lush and colorful.
  
  Sound 9/10
  
  Great music... all that stuff
  
  Replay Value 7/10
  
  Alright, unless you want the secret 
 ending, go crazy and collect those emeralds for that extra zone. Go ahead and unlock everything. 
 Oh, and if you're a diehard Sonic fan, go crazy and play it again.
  
  Tilt: 9/10
  
  Not bad, I would say
  
  Final Verdict: Go buy it
  
  I really don't care. It's a good Sonic 
 game, Sonic and Knuckles style, I think it could've used at least an extra character or two, but 
 it's still okay. Have fun!
  
  Good: Challenging gameplay in Blaze's storyline. Recommended to Sonic fans who didn't find a worthy 
 challenge with previous titles... good ol' fashioned Sonic gameplay.
  
  Bad: You're running blind (Meaning you'll run into enemies from time to time) Could've been a bit 
 longer... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: metroidprime_11
Rating: 8.4
Date: Feb 7, 2007 11:55 am PT
Review:  Right then here we go again. the first time i saw my friend playing this game i thought i am getting 
 that which in the end i did do and completed it. The thing i liked about it was the fact that it 
 was a classic sonic game= fun and entertaining. I also loved the many bosses you battled, but what 
 they could of done better was make the bosses different e. g. sonic boss is exactly the same to 
 blazes or the other way round whatever. Other people say oh sonic how crap and i think stuff u 
 its better than ure face (any way) its great if u ask me:) :) :) :) :) :) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mad_gamer2
Rating: 6.9
Date: Feb 4, 2007 2:16 am PT
Review:  sonic rush, now lets get to the good bits, the graphics are good the game play is ok but sometimes 
 to fast and anoying when you've got to make a jump. the most anoying part i found was when you 
 had to get out of the water quickly on the sonic level and on the other characters level (the girl 
 i dont know her name) it is so hard!!!!!!!!! is it me or have all sonics gone down hill latley, 
 the frustrating gameplay will make you wanting to throw your ds. I died like every 2 seconds for 
 a sonic game its not good enough and why did they make it so damn hard! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rave_n2
Rating: 8
Date: Feb 3, 2007 5:48 pm PT
Review:  Sonic has had a rough time coming into the 3d world, but you wouldn't know it from playing Sonic 
 Rush. The graphics are great, and its realy kool the way the camera moves in boss battles. The 
 gameplay is the same as all the other Sonics, a side-scrolling fast-paced action adventure. The 
 new zones are stunning and a ton of fun. And the boss battles, simply amazing. They are set up 
 entirely differently from the other sonics, and each one is different. Some you must run in circles 
 dodging attacks, and others you must run side-scrolling style. The strory is better than many past 
 Sonics, and the addition of Blaze the Cat realy mixes things up. The sound is rockin', but there 
 isn't as much replay value as there is most Sonic games. This game is pretty cheap, which is a 
 plus. This game is perfect for all Sonic fans, and I highly recomend it. There is a ton of speedy 
 Eggman-butt-kicking to be found in this game, which is perfect for long time fans, and for people 
 who are new to the series as well. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Humikimi
Rating: 8.8
Date: Feb 1, 2007 9:57 pm PT
Review:  I would like to begin with saying that I have been a Sonic fan since the Genesis days, but have 
 not really had access to the games until recently since I never owned any Sega systems. Because 
 of this I have pretty much gone through the whole history of Sonic in a few months and have been 
 able to see how it has evolved over time. I have all of the Sonic games except Advance 3, Sonic 
 360 and Shadow (it counts because it is in the same universe) . Since Sonic &amp; Knuckles I feel 
 like the games have been trying to take a different turn, especially in offering variety. Variety 
 is good, don't get me wrong, but I have noticed too much of it offered in the newer Sonic games. 
 Adventure offered too much gameplay with characters that were made to be boring parts of the games. 
 The recent 2D games (pretty much the Advance games) seem to be offering too many characters to 
 play as with little difference between them to make it worthwile, making the games' value go down, 
 whereas having less characters might have actually made it better. Also I would like to add that 
 the Advance games feel too much like all they are doing is taking the old Sonic games and merely 
 souping them up, so it feels like the same old thing just a little modernized. One could say the 
 same about Sonic Rush, but it is the fact that they actually decided to go back to the old formula, 
 rip it apart and then re-create as it should be with the new features of the DS that makes this 
 game so good. Enough babbling though let me get on with my traditional form of review, which is 
 in parts.
  
  Graphics (9/10) :
  It looks wonderful. Even though it is side-scrolling all of the stages are wonderfully done. They 
 are not necessarily super detailed but they have an attractively simple look to them that makes 
 the game flow very nicely. Especially since the game is fast paced, it actually looks better with 
 this level of detail since you can enjoy the sites without having to stop and look. The characters 
 and enemies all seem to be 3D and look wonderful with the colorful stages. The boss battles look 
 absolutely amazing as well and the dual screen usage works seamlessly well with this game graphically. 
 One point is gone though merely because, even though the backgrounds are pretty good and go perfectly 
 with the stages, they are not detailed enough so it sort of takes away from the rest of the good 
 looking game. Don't worry though, overall this game is absolutely beautiful.
  
  Sound (10/10) :
  For the most part the sound effects in this game are the same old sounds, but 
 they all sound good and in place. What really gives this game the 10 though is the fact that the 
 music is probably the best music I have ever heard in a Sonic game. Almost every track is a catchy 
 tune and this may be the only portable game that I would actually want a soundtrack too. The music 
 is fast paced and is perfect for a Sonic game. Bravo to whoever did the music, he needs to do music 
 for Sega games more often (and if he is the regular than he has just created a masterpiece) .
  
  Control (9.5/10) :
  The controls are pretty darn simple. You run, and you jump. There are 
 of course a couple other moves you can do with Sonic and Blaze but essentially that is how it is 
 played. Easy and simple. The bonus stages for getting the Chaos Emeralds are the same as Sonic 
 2's half-pipe stages except you control Sonic with the stylus. As long as you go in order with 
 those stages it is very easy to get used to it and it works very nicely actually. It is the one 
 thing the touch screen is used for but at least when it is used it is used well. So all in all 
 the controls are good, almost perfect, although sometimes the spin dash doesn't seem to be as effective 
 anymore.
  
  Story (6/10) :
  Ok the story for the most part sucks. It is the same old story as most all Sonic games: Robotnik 
 wants the Chaos Emeralds for world domination. It only gets a 6 instead of a 5 because the addition 
 of the dimensional rift and all at least adds a bit more interest, although it makes for some extensively 
 unnecessary talk scenes. I will admit though for a game like this story isn't really that important, 
 here it is mostly the gameplay that matters, leading to the next part of the review...
  
  Gameplay (9.2/10) :
  As aforementioned, unlike the Advance games, which feel like a rip with additions 
 of old Sonic games, this feels like a remastering of the old mechanics. It is much of the same, 
 you run from left to right trying not to get killed. The enemies are placed nicely though, forcing 
 you to make good use of your tension gauge. The obstacles are also creative enough so that you 
 have to work to get the goal, but it isn't annoying and it doesn't really slow you down much overall. 
 The boss battles are creative and fun but there are two factors that prevent this from getting 
 a 10. First of all one of the boss battles is repeated with a couple of new attacks which isn't 
 very creative and secondly the game should have more stuff to do in it. It is fine to have a short 
 story mode but there isn't really anything extra to do besides getting the Emeralds, which isn't 
 really that hard to do. The best part about Rush is the fact that only Sonic and Blaze are playable, 
 meaning you don't get multiple characters with the same gameplay. Actually the stages are modified 
 for each of the characters, stories are slightly different and moves are slightly different too. 
 Essentially they are the same but they are also different enough so that you don't get bored going 
 through the second character's story. The multiplayer is simply racing with another person and 
 can be fun for a few races but the jewel of this game truly lies in the single player. The dual 
 screens are used perfectly by the way, allowing you to see what is going on above or below you 
 so you don't have to hold up or down to see, making it easier to decide which path to take on the 
 move and making this game even more fast-paced.
  
  Overall (8.74/10) :
  If you like fast-paced side-scrollers then this is a must have. Upon beating the game, it is likely 
 that you will want to go through certain levels again because they were that fun, and what better 
 way to do that than by doing it with a buddy (since it has Download Play functionality with every 
 stage as long as you have played the stage) ? If you aren't the biggest fan of side-scrollers but 
 you are in the mood this game is definitely worth renting since it can be beaten in less than a 
 week. Either way this game is worth playing. It is nice to see Sonic being done right again.
  
  *NOTE* I would like to mention that this is pretty much my GameFAQs review with only a couple 
 of minor changes. Hence the slightly different set-up. Eitherway it gets pretty much the same rating... although 
 I rounded up because as the scores stand they make sense to me. Enjoy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: StarFoxCOM
Rating: 8.4
Date: Jan 30, 2007 3:38 pm PT
Review:  Well Sonic Rush is a DS game from Sega as all Sonic games. So with Sonic Rush like they have and 
 they misaked that you should turn the sonic series 3-d and Give a hedgehog a gun. (Shadow the hedgehog 
 your on) Instade they went back to what sonic is all about. A 2-d side scroller that has a simple 
 dash attack to defeat enemies. So yes finally a sonic game that has come out recently that has 
 a sense of speed. Also you will play as Blaze the cat who is like sonic but uses Fire attacks. 
 So sense we have classic gameplay we have Going off bumpers and rails. Dash attacks while running 
 the robots. and no stupid team system (sonic heros i'm looking at you) You can run on both the 
 Top and Bottom screen but the game doesn't have much usage of the stylus except for the bonus stages. 
 So after each 3 acts you have a boss challange. Which are 3-d. But are more like battle games where 
 theres a startgy for beating each boss. I also will warn you this game is very hard like most Old-school 
 games so be warned and be prepared to get furstarated. But overall if you want a sonic game on 
 that goes back to the real gameplay machinces pick up a copy of Sonic Rush. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: NeoFalconHavok
Rating: 1.9
Date: Jun 8, 2007 3:56 pm PT
Review:  Im real sick and tired of the sonic fanbase as of now. Everywhere you go, you see people whining 
 about OMG TEH GUNZ or SHADOW IS STEALING THE SPOTLIGHT or SILVER IS TEH SUCK I really want to know 
 what the hell? Then I heard RUSH was the answer to why the sonic series is in the right direction. 
 I call BS on this deal. Its the reason why the series is failing. Because fans are falling in love 
 with the past over some actual vareity in gameplay, which the advance games had. This is crap. 
 No variety AT ALL. Lets start off on why rush is not worthy of what moronic fans call a great throw 
 back 
  
  Story: 1/10
  
  Any story in a sonic game will blow, but this takes the cake. Sonic goes after Robotnik again, 
 only to find 2 worlds are coming together and a cat girl is a queen from another dimension who 
 has come to sonic's to fight another villain, and she has social phobia. Wow this is soooooooooooooo 
 original. I wonder whats next. A plot twist involving the same chick not being a queen and she 
 goes emo for some white hedgehog......... oh wait.....
  
  Gameplay: 5/10
  
  This is a bigger insult to my fandom. The gameplay is a mixed bag of S3K and advance 2 (which is 
 a bad thing considering advance 2 sucked) Half the time your going through the stage just holding 
 right. Occasionally you can go left but then you go back to right. I also enjoy blindly running 
 into enemies while holding right, thanx alot. Also its very innovative to completely destroy the 
 purpose of having a spindash by making use of a shoddy boost system which requires energy to use, 
 which is quickly lost due to running into friggin enemies at every corner. You may not see white 
 but its close enough. I also love the useless homing attack features implemented, though works 
 much better than in the advance games, 2 games later it works for some crap called rush. On top 
 of that, you only get 2 characters to use, and none of them have the name knuckles I would rather 
 play a character who started out kickass-retard rather than some prick who starts out emo and in 
 need of friends . On top of that, they make her game harder, which gives me even less reason to 
 waste time on her levels. Even more useless, she doesn't get her own special stages, so you dont 
 have to worry about her or playing the same crappy stages 2wice, because these special place are 
 just here to piss you off. Sure its easy at first but then it grows to make you break your DS. 
 I shouldn't need to take out a stick to play them either. Level design so bad, the megaman level 
 designers would have a ball with this game. And lets not get started on the 2 screen crap. Who's 
 idea was it to make you twitch your eyes up and then down to see where you are going?
  
  Sound: 8/10
  
  Yeah, despite jason griffith and those other **** voice actors, I loved the 
 osund effects, they were pretty good, and the music was cool, however I hated how the stages that 
 you'ed expect to have some awesome music, just had the tunes thrown all over the place. None of 
 the music fits in with any of the cruddy stages at all. And if these games are a throw back to 
 the old, give us some of the original tunes that went with them. Im talking the original tune for 
 when you complete the stage, get an emerald, etc. Dont force us to listen to some crap then some 
 decent music, then back to crap.
  
  Replay Value: 1/10
  
  Unless your playing for story (you poor thing) your better off playing heroes. The story is so 
 generic and stupid, its no wonder people think sonic is a joke. The story so damn corny and reeks 
 of a 90's theme centering friendship. Plus you have absolutely no unlockables (unless you love 
 games that give you a free time attack for no reason or a battle mode which no one plays anyway) 
 to warrent a second play through. This is junk.
  
  Overrall: A big hell no.
  
  Im surprised the past sonic games were this dull. Or maybe its just sonic rush being to hyped up 
 as the true sonic 4 . My ass. If this is sonic 4, then the series is doomed. Im going to play a 
 better sonic game now
  
  *pops in shadow the hedgehog* 
::::::

::::::
UserName: iwanttron
Rating: 6.4
Date: Jan 24, 2007 1:11 pm PT
Review:  I found this a solid Sonic game that plays to the series' strengths, such as the sheer speed at 
 which you can hurtle through levels. Having said that, it can also get quite frustrating for that 
 very reason - with sudden bottomless pits and hard to avoid enemies occurring increasingly frequently 
 as you progress through the game, you will need to memorise many parts of levels in order to do 
 well in them. And that usually means dying repeatedly until you get it right. The only way around 
 this is to start moving very cautiously across the screen, wary of any sudden dangers, but of course 
 that then completely eliminates the speed (and most of the fun) from the game.
  
  The game is also quite short, in fact I completed the game with both characters and all bonus levels 
 (including the extra boss zone) in less than two weeks of buying it. After which I couldn't find 
 much incentive to replay any of it.
  
  So all up I felt it was an enjoyable experience and a title I can happily call a good Sonic game 
 but not a brilliant one, due mostly to its short lifespan and lack of new ideas. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: strangeseraph
Rating: 8.4
Date: Jan 15, 2007 5:42 am PT
Review:  I just wish I could finish this game! Great gameplay, awesome graphics, Sonic to the utmost, but 
 its HARD. I can't get through it. I'm stuck in the water level, even with the bubbles, and that 
 sucks. If I can get passed the water level, I'll edit my review. But for the time being, its just 
 too hard for me. Wish it was easier to get through. : (
  
  You have sonic, you have a new character blaize, and you go through each level at uber top speeds, 
 and the top screen shows you where you will go and the bottom is your playing screen. Tails is 
 even there to help you along to reach your goal. Blaize starts the mission from another location, 
 and you come across Blaise after starting Sonic's mission. I hope I can actually get through this 
 game to give a better review. Thanks! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: NBAmaster30
Rating: 9.6
Date: Mar 14, 2007 1:44 pm PT
Review:  Sonic as we all should know is on the downside (Shadow the hedgehog, Sonic Riders, Next gen Sonic 
 the hedgehog) all of them were really bad but this game you can't say the same about sonic rush. 
 This game you can play as sonic and the newest character Blaze the cat. The level design is great 
 and like the older games with better additions like the gba sonics games you have the griding. 
 the best part of this game is the use of the 2 screens. you can be running along the level and 
 jump and fly into the next screen and then go back to the first screen. its used the way its supposed 
 to and there is not a flaw about that. Music is catchy and like the other sonic games are good. 
 value is great the price of a normal ds game but its def above normal in total game. Graphics are 
 also a high point. they are nice a crisp. sonic and blaze are 3-D and with a good amount of detail 
 for a ds game. also the difference between Blaze and Sonic. sonic is significantly faster then 
 Blaze but Blaze can have a fire jump and fire spins that sonic does not.
  
  Overall this is something that old school sonic gamers need. a great sonic game to play on your 
 ds. i would advise renting/ignoring the other new sonic games because you will be disappointed. 
 Break Down
  
  Gameplay: Has the similar Gameplay as the other sonic 2-d games, That means that this game is really 
 fun
  
  Graphics: Great graphics to have a mix of 3-d stuff with 2-D stuff
  
  Sound: Catchy songs (Casino Zone) but they don't compare to the sonic games with the best video 
 game songs.
  
  Value: now its like 20 bucks talk about a steal!
  
  Overall: I would recommend this game to us guys who love sonic and anyone looking for a blast on 
 the ds 
::::::

::::::
UserName: chocolate1325
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jan 1, 2007 4:07 pm PT
Review:  Sonic Rush is a very good Sonic Game with it's thrills of speed and it use the Touch Screen very 
 well. You use the Touch Screen on Special Stages to move Sonic away from bombs. The normal game 
 uses both screens. He goes from one screen to another one moment he's on the top and next he's 
 on the bottom. He encounters a new character called Blaze. Blaze is a cat and they have a battle 
 towards the end of the game and the bad guys are two Eggmans. Dr Eggman and Eggman Nega. Super 
 Sonic and Blaze team up in the end and defeat Eggman and save the day again. The bosses are great 
 and so is this game 2D Sonic never dissapoints. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TriforcePieces
Rating: 4
Date: Dec 27, 2006 9:57 pm PT
Review:  Before all you crazy Sonic fans start yelling out WTF? 4.0? WHAT IS WRONG WITH THIS GUY!?! I suggest 
 you read what I have to say here. I bought this game awhile back as something I'd hoped would hold 
 me over. I was wrong. I beat the game exactly 14 hours later. Final Stage with the Supers and all. 
 No joke. Besides, why would I even lie about something like that. This game lacked the depth the 
 old Sonic Games had. I mean Look at Sonic Adventure, thats a revolutionary game, as is Sonic Adventure 
 2. But when you look at this or a few other newer sonic games, not so much. Lets go over some points:
 
  
  Storyline: Mainly Its that Sonic meets a a mysterious Cat anmed Blaze, who is on a mission to get 
 the Sol Emeralds. She and Eggman-Nega, Eggman's counterpart, (lame, can't they make a better name 
 for him?) somehow were brought to Sonic's world. Sonic however has no idea wheather Blaze is friend 
 or foe. Gameplay: In this you can play as Sonic or Blaze. The stages are pretty dull and can be 
 zipped by in no time. The only thing exciting was boss battles, but they also could have been better.
 
  
  Sound: I will admit, sound is amazing, especially in Blazes' stages. Sonic's could have been better, 
 but hey, Blazes' more than make up for that.
  
  Difficulty: It was far to simple for me. I miss the old sonic games where you really had to think 
 to get past things. There ain't much of that anymore.
  
  Now who knows, maybe I'm just too good at video games to appreiciate this one, or maybe I've just 
 been dissapponted with Sonic games lately. Maybe I'm too harsh of a critic to like it, or maybe 
 a combination of all 3. Whichever way you think it is, my point stands. Its far too easy for me, 
 so it may be too easy for you too. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: icecream123
Rating: 9.3
Date: Dec 26, 2006 8:09 pm PT
Review:  Here's the breakdown:
  
  Gameplay-very addictive, fast paced action always keeps your heart beating strong (not recommended 
 for old people with weak hearts) .
  
  Graphics-although not perfect, they do use what the DS can deliver, and the polygonal 3-D look 
 of the characters and enemies. Is slightly better than normal.
  
  Sound-music........ is superb... every single song will be stuck in your head which is a good thing, 
 as it is great music! the sound effects are generic, yet nostalgic, so it's okay too.
  
  Value-currently around $25 this is a good bargain for a good game. replay value is tremendous.
 
  
  Tilt-what's tilt? anyway I'll give this a good score too.
  
  Closing comments-get the game, you'll like it, unless you just don't like sonic. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lar77man
Rating: 9.4
Date: Dec 21, 2006 11:36 am PT
Review:  this game is a perfect addition to the sonic franchise. sonic games up to now havent been very good. 
 this game is sticking to its old roots but with some new graphics. the story is baically about 
 sonic meeting up with a new character named blaze the cat and its up to them to save both of the 
 worlds from the eggmans. the music of the game is weird, but in a good way. the gameplay is just 
 like all the othe side scroling sonic games, simple and addicting. heres to sega, hopefully they 
 make there games more like this one. the end 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BlazeHedgehog
Rating: 7.7
Date: Dec 21, 2006 2:01 am PT
Review:  Sonic the Hedgehog sure has had a sketchy history, hasn't he? Since his re-launch in 1999, our 
 blue blur has been on shaky ground. Will his next game be good? Will it be bad? With each new title 
 in the series, it feels more like a roll of the dice than it does any concrete barometer for the 
 quality of the series. Fortunately, there has been one aspect of the franchise that wasn't a total 
 failure: The side-scrolling games. Though not all stellar, the Sonic titles for the Gameboy Advance 
 almost consistently exceeded the quality of their 3D big brothers. I've made it no secret that 
 my favorite game of the Gameboy Sonics was Sonic Advance 2. It pleases me to say that Sonic Rush 
 is, in terms of gameplay, pretty much a direct sequel to that game. Storyline-wise, the game returns 
 to Sonic's familiar, if ever-changing world, where two new mysterious characters have shown up: 
 Blaze the Cat, and Eggman-Nega. Both are from an alternate dimension. Blaze's role fills that of 
 Sonic; she's that realm's resident hero (or in this case, heroine) . Blaze is cold and something 
 of a loner, and as such, she eschews Sonic's aide for most of the game, instead attempting to stop 
 Eggman-Nega (and the dimensional rift he's created) all on her own. And thus, the game presents 
 you with two playable characters: Sonic and Blaze. Both play roughly the same, though there are 
 minor differences between the two. Blaze accelerates slower than Sonic, and her trick moves (more 
 on those in a minute) are much more floaty than Sonic's. It's much easier to reach some of the 
 higher ledges as Blaze than it is as Sonic.
  
  Where the game really feels like an extension of Sonic Advance 2 is the trick system. In Sonic 
 Advance 2, tapping the R button and a direction would net you a single, short lived little trick/dash 
 in that general direction. Sonic Rush ups the ante by allowing you to do a constant stream of tricks, 
 as well as special finisher tricks and dash tricks. Not only do these tricks give you a little 
 jump in mid-air, but they also fill up your tension gauge. Your tension gauge lets you do one thing: 
 Dash. Dashing makes you invulnerable to most attacks and instantly accelerates you to full speed. 
 Considering the size of Sonic Rush's levels, the more you dash, the bigger point bonus you get 
 at the end of the level (for completing it quickly) . You also build up your tension gauge picking 
 up items (such as items that instantly fill your tension gauge to max) , or destroying enemies. 
 Similarly, your tension gauge goes down as you dash - or if you take damage. If you fill your tension 
 gauge to maximum, you are granted infinite tension for a limited amount of time. This time limit 
 can be extended by continuing to combo actions that fill your tension gauge - destroying enemies, 
 pulling off tricks, finding items, etc. And this is how you play. Tricking and dashing all over 
 the place. The game is designed around these mechanics exclusively, and it becomes pretty apparent 
 the few times the game actually stops and makes you go back and do some platformer-centric activities. 
 When running and tricking, the game is fast and smooth, but once you slow down and start hopping 
 across tiny platforms, the controls feel stiff and kind of unwieldy - they weren't really designed 
 for this sort of thing, and getting used to moments like this can be tough. Especially because 
 moments like this often come abruptly.
  
  Most of the game you will spend your time blitzing along at top speed - carelessly miss a spot 
 where you're supposed to slow down and do some platforming - and plummet off a cliff to your doom. 
 There's very little indication when these sections turn up, and it's so easy to go so fast, you're 
 going to be missing these sections a lot. Infact, most of the lives you lose in this game will 
 be largely because of this problem. In the end, most of your success in a given level boils down 
 to pure memorization. It's not horrible, but it would be nice if there were better visual cues 
 to let you know you had to slow down (or if the levels were designed so they forced you to slow 
 down at those points, like the old Genesis games did) .
  
  Thus, your first time through the game can be rough. Frustrating, even. Levels like Altitude Limit 
 will make you weep on your first time through due to just how annoying they can be. But as they 
 say, practice makes perfect - once you beat the game for the first time, things only get more fun 
 from there. The better you memorize the levels and explore them, the higher your scores get and 
 the closer you come to obtaining the elusive S Rank. Unfortunately, the S Ranks don't really do 
 anything. Visually, the game is a mixed bag. Both Sonic and Blaze are drawn using cel-shaded polygons, 
 lending their animations a very smooth sense of movement. Everything else in the game looks more 
 or less like it stepped out of a Gameboy Advance game. That's not bad, but for the DS, it's a little 
 dissapointing. Boss encounters are a little more impressive, being fully 3D (despite still controlling 
 as if they were 2D) . Because this is the DS, the game is played across two screens - as if they 
 were one big vertical screen. At certain points, your character will transfer from one screen to 
 the other. This sounds hard to follow in theory, but I rarely had trouble with it in practice. 
 When my character went from one screen to the other, my eyes simply followed that character down 
 (or up) to the other screen, naturally.
  
  Musically, the game is amazing. Sonicteam made a bold decision to bring Hideki Naganuma on to do 
 the game's soundtrack. You may reckognize him as one of the artists who contributed to the funky 
 soundtrack for both Jet Set Radio and Jet Set Radio Future. He does not dissapoint, bringing a 
 fresh, high-energy techno sound to the game's music; very fitting for the type of gameplay available. 
 The end result is one of the best, most pleasing, original, and just down-right listenable soundtracks 
 since the original Genesis games. The game offers up some multiplayer, but it's pretty standard 
 and featureless; and when running around levels with a friend during a race, you don't even get 
 to see them - instead, you simply see a generic icon representing them. Also on offer is the standard 
 time trial mode, with the ability to view your previous time trial's ghost (as if it were a racing 
 game) . This actually made a bit of unexpected fun for me because it was almost like playing against 
 a friend - though I have to wonder why the real multiplayer mode shows a simple icon for Player 
 2, if player ghosts show up as a full-body character. In the end, though, Sonic Rush is a pretty 
 good game, though you're going to need patience (maybe a lot of patience) to get through the game's 
 entry barrier (the need to memorize levels or die) to really discover the fun this game has on 
 offer. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Master_Wiggles
Rating: 7.2
Date: Dec 6, 2006 3:12 pm PT
Review:  This was a pretty good game. It was cool how they were able to make it 3D with the old 2d game 
 feel. The graphics aren't bad but still need work. The sound could also be a bit clearer. This 
 was a good game but the super ending boss was boring almost as bad as sonic advanced 3's . Also 
 some times it felt the character was several steps behind mine. Also the battle with Blaze were 
 you have to mash the buttons killed my fingers. But besides that their was an array of levels (though 
 the bosses could have been cooler) it was an over all fun game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: xize
Rating: 8.7
Date: Dec 4, 2006 5:29 am PT
Review:  its a realy good gameplay to as i run down then i see me on the bottum screen! but only whats harped 
 me the gameplay isnt be long but some bosses are realy strong but the boss stage isnt good do you 
 know why? i think over that the end boss there is realy easy! and the others are realy hard but 
 the graphics are realy good but tekken is better but only what wrong is of the game is the boss 
 he goes every time death but thats not botter me! but my end result is a 8.7 as game! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: faraz3671
Rating: 8.8
Date: Nov 29, 2006 10:51 pm PT
Review:  this game is definitely the best sonic game yet !!!!
  the previous sonic games used to be boring bcz all u had to do was press forward and watch the 
 levels go by but it is different this time... u have to watch out for enemies and sometimes they 
 lock u up in the middle of the level and enemies appear !!!! plus fighting with bosses is very 
 challenging !!!
  there r 3 levels in each of the zones and a boss at the end !!!! the graphics are good although 
 they could have been better !!! the sound is awesome.... different for every level.... and great 
 beat which makes the game even more fun !!!!
  to sum it up this game is the best sonic game u could own to date, it stays in its roots and its 
 additional features make it even better !!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: soniciscool15
Rating: 9.6
Date: Nov 29, 2006 9:22 am PT
Review:  It's so cool to sprint as fast as Sonic can go! It's sweet how Blaze comes from another world (Really 
 the future) and is a mild challenge for Sonic. It's kinda weird how there's two Eggmans, until 
 you find out about the two worlds. This is the only small screen Sonic game, with 3D fighting simulation 
 battling. The fight between Sonic&amp; Blaze is really blood-pumping. If you've ever wanted to create 
 a Sonic boom with Sonic, buy this game! If you hold the button, you can smash enemies. As can Blaze, 
 but it's fire, and at the end she can throw fire blasts (Super-Ending) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ApeOverlord
Rating: 8.6
Date: Nov 27, 2006 7:03 pm PT
Review:  This game is a great addition to the Sonic timeline in a few obvious ways. First, Sonic and Blaze 
 are in 3D, while the backgrounds are 2D. Second, two screens make it easier to expand the level. 
 It was a smart move for Sonic Team to be true to their roots in the making of Sonic Rush. I love 
 to dash through the levels in a 2D format just like the Genesis days. What makes the game slightly 
 better is the fact that the bosses are in more of a 3D format. Each boss level is both exciting 
 and challenging and requires a certain way to beat the colossal robot. I enjoyed the boss battles 
 in 3D Sonic games such as Sonic Adventure 2 Battle and it felt like reliving the same kind of experience.
 
  
  One nostalgic aspect is Sonic's bonus levels. It instantly brought back nostalgia, as it completely 
 reminded me of Sonic the Hedgehog 2 for the Genesis. Moving the stylus back and forth and collecting 
 rings in order to earn a chaos emerald. Now that's being true to their roots.
  
  A few flaws I can point out are that there should've been more characters to play as. Sonic and 
 Blaze are cool, but there aren't very different from each other in terms of attacks and moves. 
 Tails, Knuckles, and Cream would've been great to play as, but the game layout is pretty much the 
 same between Sonic and Blaze, only the order of levels differ. Also, the music could've been better. 
 The beat to the music was good, but I couldn't understand what they were saying most of the time.
 
  
  Overall, buy this game if you truely love Sonic games. It won't last too long, but it is still 
 a fun game to play through. It feels just like the old Sonic games and they were true to their 
 roots. It was truely wise for them to somehow combine 2D and 3D to get an amazing present-day Sonic 
 experience. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sonicth901
Rating: 9.6
Date: Nov 26, 2006 6:22 pm PT
Review:  A great game for a DS me being a sonic fan I say this game is awsome. The music is great the extra 
 zone is awsome although it does take a little bit of playing again and again getting used to. Heres 
 a tip where headphones when playing music sound waay better. The bosses are fun and annoying after 
 you keep on playing it the bosses will become wicked easier. For example the second last boss the 
 bomber barbara was extremely hard for the first couplde of times then after I kept playing it I 
 keep on getting S ranks (which are the best) on it. After putting on Headphones the game gets more 
 addictive becasue well it has great music. There could be a little more 3rd in it and the last 
 emrald you have to get is pretty hard unless you know the special trick which is. When you get 
 to the place where there are bombs scattered everywhere get hit one of the firsts bombs you see 
 and then while sonic is flickering which sows he is hurt. Move sonic around in the halfpipe like 
 crazy because when you get hit nothing else can hit you for a short amount of time so the bombs 
 cant hit you but you can still collect rings. Hope you get what i am saying ant hope it helps. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SilentBliss
Rating: 9.8
Date: Nov 23, 2006 6:29 pm PT
Review:  All of us sonic fans know we that when sonic went from 2-d to 3-d it was a big step. Sonic however 
 did not take it easy, and it led to several mediocre sonic games. This game is simply amazing though. 
 Other than the fact that its kind of short it still is very fun. Some bad things i've noticed is 
 theres only 2 playable characters. I really like sonic and blaze, but knuckles is one of my favorite 
 characters, and it would have been nice if they, but him in there. I think my favorite thing about 
 sonic rush is the special stages. Getting to control sonic with the Ds stylus is fun. However, 
 just pressing one certain area of the touch screen makes sonic move everywhere so making sonic 
 avoid the bomb/spikes is not that difficult. Another thing that angers me about the game is Blaze 
 cannot go into special stages. Now for the good, I love the fact they use 3-D in a 2-D world. The 
 best thing in the game is the speed. Never has a sonic game been this fast, and it never will be 
 again. The boss battles are fun, but really simple and easy to beat. Overall Great game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: brother_love
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 21, 2006 8:57 am PT
Review:  Stop and think about that title for a moment and see if your knees start to wobble. Sonic Rush 
 - yes, that's right, Rush.
  
  Sonic, whose idea of a stroll is to tear a strip of burning turf round the entire circumference 
 of the Earth on his way to the corner shop, is coming to DS and he's in a hurry.
  
  Just being the fastest game character ever created is old news for him; he wants to get a bit of 
 a move on. And that's a terrifying thought.
  
  Terrifying and wonderful, of course. Sonic has always been about speed thrills, and discovering 
 that DS's touch screen, microphone, wireless and all the rest haven't distracted Sega from the 
 basics is brilliant news. This is, plain and simple; a classic Sonic game.
  
  Start on the left of the screen and head to the right a tiny bit faster than the human eye can 
 actually detect, swooping, twirling and ricocheting as you go.
  
  Thanks to the action being spread across both screens, levels are vast and intricate, with dozens 
 of alternative routes and hidden goodies that encourage you to play through again and again. The 
 controls are tight and responsive and the speed, as the title promises, is intense.
  
  There are a couple of problems, though. The ludicrous speed combined with the screen swapping nature 
 of this double-decker adventure mean that it does wear your eyes out pretty quickly.
  
  Also, the sections which slow down Sonic's progress - mainly the enforced combat where he has to 
 fight his way out of a trap - interrupt the flow. But, those are niggles: it all looks peachy, 
 the action is fast, the tunes are brilliant, the cutscenes are short and the bosses don't ruin 
 your fun.
  
  Throw in some great single-cart link-up races and you and your friends are guaranteed to enjoy 
 many happy hours with this breakneck fun park. Sonic may be in a rush, but Sega clearly wasn't 
 when it crafted this glorious game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: madmanjim
Rating: 8.7
Date: Nov 21, 2006 8:35 am PT
Review:  this is definately the best sonic game ever with a new boost bar that makes sonic break the sound 
 barrier this will be vital to completing the game at the fastest time possible and you build up 
 speed by killing badguys and doing stunts on grind bars over ramps and after shooting of a spring. however 
 once again sega has added another character to the sonic series blaze the cat shes just as fast 
 as sonic but doesnt have the same sense of speed as sonic making her a little boring they should 
 have used shadow the hedghog. another let down is the super sonic mode instead of it being like 
 the origional sonics where u would get 50 rings or more in a level double jump and u would become 
 super sonic, however in previous sonic and this sonic u fight a bad guy and thats it making super 
 sonic a less enjoyable experiance .a good feature of this game is that you split between the top 
 screen and the botom screen making the levels twice the size. theres also special levels where u 
 contoll sonic using the touch screen to collect rings in order to get a chaos emerald the special 
 stages are a lot like the special stages from sonic 3d for the sega saturn and sonic the hedghog 
 2 but greatly improved ,however they are sumtimes to easy. but the best part of sonic rush is the 
 2 player mode, only one cartidge is needed and you can pick any level from the game making it the 
 best 2 player sonic as well. howevr sonic rush is a little short so the exciment wont last for long. 
 sonic rush has its bad points but is still the best sonic ever with great shell shaded style graphics, 
 its a instant classic we can only hope for sonic rush 2 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jdevimon
Rating: 9.3
Date: Nov 18, 2006 7:37 am PT
Review:  Sonic rush is a great game for the ds and it is what the ds needed but it is lacking in some areas 
 like, the sound because it is just most of the same sounds from the past games but that is not 
 entirely a bad thing because on the ds the sounds are just right. The gameplay was one of the best 
 parts of sonic games and this game is no differnt from others but because of games like sonic heroes 
 and the adventure titles the gameplay is a welcome addition to the sonic series. one of the best 
 new features is playing as blase is a fun way to play sonic rush again but most of her moves are 
 the same as sonic's but the story is different so thats a plus.
  
  this is a great game for the ds and beyond the sound a very good game you should buy this game 
 now!!!!!!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SonicBalla
Rating: 8.3
Date: Nov 13, 2006 12:27 pm PT
Review:  Ok this game left me kind on speechless because I actually though that it was going to be better 
 than a 8.2 or a 8.3. The gameplay is fun but sometimes is can be frustrating because some of the 
 boss battles are repetitive and boring and because sometimes Sonic or Blaze are going so fast that 
 you won't have time to avoid some things. The good thing about the gameplay is that they added this 
 new trick system which is really fun because it powers Sonic and Blaze up. It makes you move Super 
 fast and you can knock off absolutely any enemy in your way. The graphics in this game are good 
 aand not annoying at all so enough said about it. The sound in this game are good to so enough said 
 about that too. The value well ummmmmm I'd say it's good because it's always good to have a Sonic 
 game around and also that the fact that 2 player is fun with or without 2 game cards. So in conclusion 
 I'd say this game could've been just a bit better if it lasted longer and if the gameplay could 
 change just a bit but I say it's still worth having though. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Lance_C
Rating: 6.7
Date: Nov 6, 2006 6:39 pm PT
Review:  A game which tries to resemble with its 2D predecessors, but still has quite a long way to go. 
 Sonic Rush is trying to get Sonic on his 2D feet again. After many failures with going 3D , the 
 developers have decided to take a step back again and preferring certainty over exploration. And 
 it seems most gamers like it, the Hedgehog still hasnt lost his touch, when it comes to classic 
 games. There are many things you can say about Sonic on the DS. Lots of things have changed throughout 
 the years of 2D Sonic. The Sonic on the Sega systems were a blast to play with, but is it somewhat 
 the same with this one? Yes and no. Of course the developers have improvised and have tried to 
 come with a game which suits this era of next-gen consoles and handhelds. Have they succeeded? 
 Let's find out!
  
  First off, the gameplay. It's great to see that you are playing with Sonic again and this time 
 it's on the DS. With all his friends he is bound to put up a good performance and trying to beat 
 Eggman (again) . The beginning was good, great first impressions, but further in the game it starts 
 to get frustrating. Not because you have to restart a mission multiple times to get it just right, 
 but because you get obstacles before you without being able to see it. You only have a limited 
 view of what is in front of you as well as what is behind you. Sonic Rush is all about speed, and 
 when you are on the move, you don't want to slow down or hit the brakes. You just want to speed 
 up and maybe even go faster. But before doing that, you have to replay the missions all over again, 
 why? Well, then you will know where the obstacles are and when you have to jump and where to go. 
 Great for Sonic fans who wouldn't mind playing a mission fifty times, but nothing for most gamers. 
 Gamers who are fed up to play with the hedgehog over and over again, great news: Another character 
 introduces herself in this game, Blaze the Cat. A fiery animal who focuses more on strength rather 
 than speed. This is also recognized when having played both characters. And of course, there are 
 the classic boss battles. Too bad they haven't put much variety in it, they all feel the same. 
 The further you get, the stronger they get, that's all. Seems clich&eacute;, but it is bad. Some 
 bosses even have one-hit KOs which will kill you when you are hit, even though you have a ring 
 or thousand. You just have to restart and try to beat him again or just turn off the DS. The only 
 thing worth mentioning is the fact that you fight the bosses in 3D. This wasn't really necessary, 
 since it doesn't change much to battling the bosses. The graphics aren't that good. Of course it's 
 the DS, but that's just a lousy argument. I'm not referring to the 2D graphics, since they look 
 great, but I'm pointing to the 3D graphics. Too bad, if they would have let those out, it would 
 have been better, when it comes to graphics. The sound in the game is reasonable. The music in 
 the game is nice to listen to and the voice of the characters are the same as in the series. That's 
 a plus for sound, further there isn't much to say about this. The conversations are just in displaying 
 letters, so no reports on that. No extraordinary things, worth mentioning when it comes to this 
 part of the game.
  
  The game itself isn't really expensive. It probably was, but after some time the price descended. 
 That could be one of the reasons why you would want to play the game. It lasts quite long, with 
 all the extra missions and getting the wanted letter in every mission: S
  
  Though, this game would look great in your collection, it wouldn't meet the requirements of a good, 
 let alone, great game. Being the owner of a game with a legendary character feels satisfying, but 
 if you are searching for an enjoyable game on the DS, this is one of the last games you should 
 be searching for. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nightwalker89
Rating: 7.8
Date: Oct 29, 2006 9:34 pm PT
Review:  Sonic: Rush Brings back some ollldd style classic sonic game play. Its the classic side scroller 
 fast paced adventure game that you played years ago, only with 14 new stages and 1 new character. 
 Game play: Most important feature in a game, right? As a nintendo user its obviously what you are 
 interested in. The gameplay is as stated above, just like the old games you played before. New 
 levels. etc. Is that a bad thing? HELL NO! All those Sonic racing games... and adventure games 
 or w/e they are hurt sonics name and we all know it! its nothing LIKE what sonic gameplay should 
 be! So this game goes back to the classic style and well... its quite a bit of fun! It also throws 
 in a minigame type thing every so often in levels where you use the stylus. There are however some 
 bad things about the gameplay... Sometimes you can hit things that arent really in your veiw distance.. 
 making it so you have to almost memorise parts of levels and is a bit frustrating. The last boss 
 is also incredibly difficult.
  
  Graphics: Old school sonic graphics with some bits of 3D thrown in here and there... nothing to 
 OO and AAH over but it gets the job done with a sonic game. Not like we are looking for something 
 out of the ordinary if we are playing Sonic.
  
  Sound: Surprisingly, the music wasn't half bad! Some of the music is some what catchy as you are 
 zooming through levels. Other times it can be a bit annoying. But overall pretty decent.
  
  Value: It was my first DS game and it took me a couple weeks to beat (take into consideration i 
 play in betwean things and not sitting down for a couple of consecutive hours of gameplay) and 
 overall had a pretty entertaining experience. However, i dont know if ill end up picking it up 
 very often agian. But just based on the fact that i MAY pick it up agian gives it some replay-ability 
 i suppose.
  
  So overall, Sonic: Rush is some classic Sonic the Hedge Hog gameplay. If you are a fan waiting 
 for a decent sonic game to arise, heres your ticket. Or if your a DS owner in the market for a 
 fast paced game this could also work for you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: VMan
Rating: 9.4
Date: Oct 16, 2006 5:42 pm PT
Review:  Many people including myself will argue that the Sonic the Hedgehog series achieved the positive 
 recognition it has today during its first installments on the Sega Genesis. Those games provided 
 very fresh gameplay for their time with a focus on speed, excitement, and fun level/boss design. 
 The Genesis sequels built on that formula, serving only to strengthen the series into a great one. 
 Unfortunately, those who feel that way will also argue that the series took a dip when it entered 
 the realm of 3D. Don't get me wrong, I like the Sega Dreamcast Sonic installments, they were fun. 
 They featured Sonic gameplay that was a clear 3D evolution of its 2D roots and were a blast to 
 play in that respect, however, the inclusion of so many other characters (some lame with lame gameplay 
 accompanying them) , the games ended up getting dulled, tarnishing the exciting Sonic experience. 
 Sonic Team continued this trend with 3D installment after 3D installment, trying to refine the 
 gameplay with every effort but always falling short. It was clear to me from the beginning what 
 the problem was. Beneath all the lame fluff those games featured was the rush of speed and excitement 
 the Sonic levels offered. In those lied the answer and should've been clear to Sonic Team that 
 they were the way to go for 80-90% of the game if not exclusively, and that is precisely what Sonic 
 Rush does, and why it is simply the best Sonic game i've played in years.
  
  In Sonic Rush you play as 1 of 2 main characters: Sonic, and a newcomer Blaze. Sonic is in the 
 full form we've come to know him in, and Blaze is a cool character in her own right. Blaze is a 
 little bit slower than Sonic but she makes up for it with better jumping ability and attacks.
 
  
  Anybody who has played the original Sonic the Hedgehog games (especially before playing the Sonic 
 Adventures and Sonic Heroes) and enjoyed them knows what quality Sonic gameplay is. Its is the 
 rush of excitement and speed, dashing through levels, bouncing all over the place, and battling 
 fun and challenging bosses. This is what makes Sonic the Hedgehog fun, and it is simply what Sonic 
 Rush is. Each character progresses through the game through the same levels with only minor differences, 
 the only real difference worth noting is that Sonic's levels have portals that warp you into the 
 Special Stage of that level. If you've played the original installments, you know what those are. 
 They are scrolling half-pipe rail levels with obstacles along the way that you must dodge while 
 collecting a specified number of rings. The interesting aspect of these levels is that they provide 
 I believe the game's only interactive use of the touch screen. Instead of controlling Sonic through 
 these levels with the D-Pad, you guide him with the stylus. Its in interesting twist and its fun. 
 If you manage to collect all the rings required to complete the level, you're rewarded with a traditional 
 Chaos Emerald. Another interesting twist on the gameplay is that your character will fly back and 
 forth between the two screens. Its a really cool sight to see your character on the touch scree, 
 then suddenly launched into the air, off the screen, and up to the top screen. I really like that 
 utilization of the DS. Beyond that, again, if you've played the original installments, you know 
 what to expect from the gameplay. Its simply been beefed up with new gameplay elements that only 
 make it more exciting. Believe me when I tell you this is not a bad thing in this context, its 
 one of the best things to happen to this series in years, and is really a breath of fresh air from 
 the flawed 3D installments.
  
  This music in this game is really great. The level and boss tracks have a mostly upbeat, somewhat 
 techno-esque flair reminiscent of the Jet Grind/Set Radio series and they are very easy on the 
 ears. They actually served to make the gameplay more enjoyable as the tempo of the music matches 
 that of your exciting rush through the levels, thus they end up complementing the level and boss 
 gameplay very well.
  
  Overall, any true Sonic fan, especially those who grew up with the series' roots owes it to themselves 
 to play this game. This is the best recent evidence of just what is Sonic and why its so great, 
 and it achieves this by reminding us of why it became so great in the first place. Its not a new 
 and different Sonic game, its a fantastically updated showcase of its roots, and its darn good 
 because of that very fact. Highly recommended to Sonic and action fans alike! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Kenny789
Rating: 7.8
Date: Oct 15, 2006 4:49 am PT
Review:  Sonic Rush is a great sonic game for the DS. Sonic has a new partner her name is Blazes the Cat, 
 A princess from another dimension sent to Sonic's world to retrieve emeralds so she can save her 
 world.
  
  Gameplay: I gave gameplay an 8 because its a really nice game and its really fast. Its also quite 
 hard but not too hard. Boss battles are also fun and the unlockable time trial tests you on how 
 fast can you finish a level.
  
  Graphics: I gave graphics a 7 because its got pretty decent graphics and the graphics during boss 
 battles are nice
  
  Sound: The music is absolutely fantastic so I gave sound a 10. Its really nice and it makes you 
 feel more like playing the game
  
  Value: I gave Value a 6 because theres not much to do after you finish the game. You could try 
 and get all Chaos Emeralds but its really quite easy getting them. You could just do the levels 
 over again but that aint much fun
  
  Tilt: I give tilt an 8 because its quite creative in the way it uses the touch screen and the two 
 screens together. Guiding Sonic through the Chaos Emerald level is quite fun and a nice addition. 
 The game is fun and turned out fine
  
  Sonic Rush is a great game for those who love the series and for those who dont. I'd say buy this 
 game when you have the chance because its a really great game that will occupy you for a few hours 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hyrulian_elite
Rating: 9.6
Date: Oct 12, 2006 6:59 am PT
Review:  this may be the greatest thing since sonic the hedgehog on the genesis. this is full of many lvl 
 and tricks to pull off although bosses are roughly similer the thrill and rush off it makes this 
 a true sonic title.
  
  gameplay:
  once you put that cartdridge in and sart up your ds you wont be off for a while for sonic rush 
 will keep your eyes on both screens as sonic and blaze rush through imaginetive jungles, high tec 
 harbours, ancient pyramids and soar through outer space. once you have becan to play you wont stop 
 until you have collected all the emeralds and ranked S on eavh course for it is plailey that addictive 
 even if you have never picked up a sonic game you will be in conrol fighting eggman and a new un 
 seen terror from a parrallel dimension. and now with the added rush bar on the side it allows you 
 to break the sound barrier with maximum speed!!!
  
  Graphics:
  the graphis in this might not be high def but this will take you right back to 1991 with the classic 
 screen scrolling action the lvl's may be in 2d but this simply rekindles the old love of sonic 
 games and since the boss battles are in full 3d it offers you the chance to take them down not 
 only in 2 dimensions but 3.
  
  sounds:
  this game features a mixture many different tunes but each one is garuntied to make your heart 
 beat at get the adreneline pumping for this combined with the spend and shear thrill of this game 
 will be enough to get you to brake the sound barrier.
  
  conclusion:
  if you have never played a sonic game nows your chance for this will have you entangled within 
 your ds for day so get down to the shop or online and buy it now for intense thrills and rush! 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Ross_Boss
Rating: 8.3
Date: Oct 9, 2006 12:42 pm PT
Review:  SonicRush this is the game I'm reviewing, because I believe it's the best in the series. The differences 
 between this and the rest of the Sonic games: SonicRush is on dual screens so you have to keep 
 up with Sonic going from the top screen to the bottom sceen and so on it's worked out very well 
 the way you get from screen to screen. The Tension Gauge is new also if you do stunts it fills 
 up your Tension Gauge and by getting rings fills up your Tension Gauge, and getting Checkpoints. 
 When your Tension Gauge is full it flashes Red and it makes you faster when full. You use the Tension 
 Gauge on the the Special Generator you find them in every level, if your Tension Gauge is full enough 
 you jump on the Special Generator and hold Y and you will go into a portal to a Mini-Game to get 
 the Chaos Emeralds you use the touch screen to go Left and Right in the long haif-pipe, and collect 
 the amount of Rings it says, dodge bombs and tap on enemies to hit them, if you hit a spring in the 
 Mini-Game it comes up numbers that you have to hit first 1,2,3 and so on in about Three seconds 
 if you do it correctly you get rings and when you get the amount of rings your supposed to get 
 you do the next half and they give you a higher target if you get the target you get a Chaos Emerald. 
 There is also a different type of attack, you press Y and across and you dash into the enemy knocking 
 them flying. This also makes you go quick. There is also stunts in SonicRush if in mid-air press 
 B to do stunts but if on grind rail press R, stunts give you points and a higher rank in the end. 
 You can do combos with the stunts and if you do a good combo you see animals jump up onto the top 
 screen. There is also R and up to make you go higher when in mid-air. The rings are different in 
 this Sonic game, I think the rings in this looks the best, but if you look carefully in every Sonic 
 game the rings look slightly different. There is loads of new ideas in the tracks in SonicRush. 
 Also there is a new charactar Blaze the Cat Blaze has diffirent moves from Sonic and she collects 
 the Sol Emeralds and you get the Sol Emeralds by defeating bosses this means that she dosn't do 
 the Mini-Game in the Special Generator. Also in SonicRush it is half 2-D and half 3-D it's mostly 
 2-D in a track but some bits in the track are 3-D. The boss stages are completly 3-D which works 
 out very well, and in the boss stages you see their health in the touch screen. In SonicRush there 
 is Eggman-Nega which you fight him when you are Blaze.
  
  Bad Points: The last boss is ridicously hard, game could be longer, could do with more than two characters 
 to pick from, should have a Chao garden. Good Points: Very fun multi-player, good track ideas, no 
 glitches what so ever, fun boss stages, new character, very fast, cool enemies,14 new tracks, good story 
 line. Gameplay: In SonicRush there is iots of routes to take and a normal amount of enemies. The 
 new Tension Gauge makes SonicRush fun and unique. Lots of new ideas, keeps Sonic games from getting 
 old and makes the Lifespan last longer. Some enemies are placed are placed in a anoying place but 
 I suppsse that makes it more of a challenge. In this Sonic game when you get hit all your rings 
 come out, say if you had 120 rings if hit all those rings scatter about the place, it's cool. In 
 this Sonic game they have brought back the old fun Mini-Game from Sonic 2, and they changed it slightly 
 to make it more fun. Graphics: The Graphics of the characters are very good but not brilliant. 
 The Graphics in the rings is brilliant it's just perfict you can't get much better. The back ground 
 Graphics is okey nothing special about it. The 3-D Graphics in the game are good yet again nothing 
 special. The Loop to Loop has brilliant Graphics, it looks like loks like a perfict circle. All 
 together the Graphics are good. Sound: The music in it is good but nothing that's original like 
 the first level in sonic the hedgehog. The sound affects is good. Value: It's good value because 
 you can buy it new for &pound;15. Tilt: All together it works out as a god game I recommend that 
 you get it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Seffiroth
Rating: 9.3
Date: Oct 9, 2006 8:36 am PT
Review:  When I got this game, I knew it was gonna be awesome. And whadya know, IT IS! This game has got 
 the funny, the looks, the gameplay, and the roots. Yup, that's right, the roots.
  
  Gameplay: Old- School yo. Same as always. Except wit ha few more moves added.
  
  Graphics: 
 2.5-D, with 3D models in a 2-D enviroment. In one part of the game, it kinda plays like a SNES 
 game. Awesome. Oh yeah, and boss battles can range from 2.5-D to 2.75-D (Closer than usual!)
  
  Sound: Some voice acting with the usual jingles here and there. The music is okay. But the 
 sound can be very loud at times! :D
  
  Value: If you wanna try to get better swcores than there's tons of backtracking for you! :D
  
 
  Tilt: Just Plain  
::::::

::::::
UserName: blackiebraidy
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 5, 2006 5:14 pm PT
Review:  this sonic game is my favorite game for the ds it has the best graphics its a great game to play 
 i think this game should of got a perfect this game has amazing 3d bosses and great 3d graphics 
 it had really fun levels well.....
  except for the desert level it was pretty hard my favorite level was the first level one of the 
 funnest things on the game was getting the chaos embralds but whats disappointing about it is that 
 you don't use the pen that much on the game but you do while getting chaos embralds i think this 
 is one of the best sonic game ever 
::::::

::::::
UserName: liugeaux
Rating: 9.3
Date: Oct 3, 2006 9:24 pm PT
Review:  Sonic Rush is that sonic game you have been waiting on ever since you bought your Sega Saturn. 
 3D Sonic had his ups and downs when it comes to gameplay and concept. But, if you take that same 
 3D hedgehog and put him on a 2D plain, magic happens. Rush is fast paced, fun, fairly difficult 
 and as usual the graphics are stunning. Sega has always put 110% of their effort into making Sonic's 
 world look amazing, and Sonic Rush is no different. Normally, Sonic games have very, very cheesy 
 overacting cut scenes and dialogue, but these have been tamed down a bit and the music, ah the 
 music, the sound track fits the pace of the game like a glove. 15 years ago Sonic showed up as 
 a flashy alternative to Mario. While back then it was done to try and sell more consoles. Now that 
 they both are on the same console, its all about the gameplay. Now the few downsides, It's kinda 
 short. I was able to finish both Sonic and Blazes' stories fairly quickly, and as the GS reviewer 
 said there is not enough of a difference in characters to make Blazes' appearance as memorable 
 as Knuckles' or Tails' from Sonic 2 and 3. Everytime a Sonic game is released we get new characters 
 to fool around with and the down side to that is that other than the previously mentioned characters 
 we don't get to see much character development. However, if I played Sonic games for the story 
 I would have given up on the franchise a long time ago. Overall Sonic Rush was well worth my $20 
 and I will spend several hours battling my friends Sonic 2 style in the multiplayer portion of 
 Rush. So, if you own a DS get this game if only for Genesis nostalgia's sake. P. S. Sega, a sequel 
 would be nice. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: duaneallman
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 2, 2006 6:24 pm PT
Review:  I like to do short reviews. The details are in the GS review, so here's the goods and the bads:
 
  
  Pros:
  * Speed - lot's of it
  * Graphics - I loved the way this game worked with the graphics. It's very improvised in a good 
 way
  * Many levels - It has good replay value
  * Good level Design - This is what got the Blue Blur famous
  * Challenging - This game ain't 
 no walk in the Park. The Boss Battles put me through some challenge
  * Music - The songs are pretty good
  
  Cons:
  * Level Design - Sometimes you have to memorize 
 a part of the level to live
  * The space between screens - There is a short time where you can't see Sonic, but this really 
 isn't that big of a problem
  
  Overall, I love Sonic's 3D games, but think this is my fav. I definitely recommend this game to 
 any DS owner. Have fun! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hack40
Rating: 9.8
Date: Dec 11, 2006 1:31 pm PT
Review:  (I changed my review for Sonic Rush) Bad side: Sonic Rush adds new moves and is also like the good 
 ol' 16 bit Sonic games. But too be honest a little bit too much. The 2D Sonic were Awesome but 
 they were short but challenging. This game started off as a challenge for me, but I started to 
 get better and the game started to get easy for me. This game is too be honest short. Some of the 
 game is still a challenge but the rest of the game got easy for me after some time. The final boss 
 was said to be REALLY hard (and yet some would call it impossibe) . At first (for me) the extra 
 zone (the final boss is in the extra zone for those who don't know) started off hard... but the 
 day after I unlocked the extra zone.... I beat the extra zone. Then I soon went back to the fextra 
 zone and beat it 10 times already!! 10 TIMES!! But the game is in fact, REALLLY GOOD!! The 4kids 
 VAs are terrible and screws up the characters' voices. The only good ones were Eggman's and Blaze's 
 (who, I'm talking about Blaze, had a Lani Minella like voice when using the trick system at times 
 which is a good thing) . Pros: Gameplay is like the 2D Sonic games yet even better, Trick System 
 is a nice idea and is a great system, Insane Speed, Graphics are great for a DS and is great, Boss 
 fights are great as well, Great Music. Cons: 4kids voice acting (4kids is a crappy company and 
 is racist to) , Too short a game, THe game got easy for me. Good Side: The gameplay is in fact really 
 extremely like the 2D Sonic games. They're even better, too. The level designs are great. 2D desings 
 and 3D character designs. Nice idea but however it would look even better if it were IN full 3D 
 for all of the game. The boss fights are in 3D (full 3d i Think, if not just in 3D for most of 
 it) and are fun to do. But you can't do a super boost? Ah who cares (the super boost is still awesomely 
 awesome) ? Anyway, there are 2 playable characters: Sonic the Hedgehog and Blaze the Cat. Sonic 
 and Blaze does not have alot differences but I don't take as a downside. Most of their abilities 
 are the same but when you press the R button in the air, Sonic will do a jump dash (which is useless 
 in boss fights) that will hit near by enemies (not in the boss fights but the jump dash is still 
 avalible) and Blaze will do hover. The trick system for the 2 is also are lil' different. The hop 
 jump for is some time of double jump but for Blaze it will go higher than how Sonic does it. The 
 humming top for Sonic goes fast but Blaze will go farther. The trick system is really good as well. 
 Press B-B-B-A to do a fine trick. And there is a just trick and these hop jumps and humming tops. 
 Graphics are perfect for the DS. One of the best DS graphics I ever seen. Music rocks. Though there 
 is one song I don't like: the Ska Cha Cha song that plays on the Night Carnival level (Act 1-2 
 only) . Final Side: So Sonic is faster than Blaze but Blaze has better jumping abilities (not when 
 it comes to the jump dash, Sonic has the jump dash. Sonic is better than Blaze. Overally this game 
 is superb I would've gave it a 10 but the 4kids VA f**ked it up. Ryan Drummond (Sonic's former 
 voice) did Sonic's in e3 2005 but due Sega's decision to fire the old VAs and use the 4kids VAs 
 that were used in the 4kids dub Sonic X. Damn you Sega damn you. Sonic Rush is incredible but if 
 it had a little more to it and if it was longer it would have been better. Gameplay- 10/10 Graphics- 
 10/10 Sound- 8/10 Value- 10/10 Reviewer's Tilt- 10/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Shadow-Valllian
Rating: 2.1
Date: Sep 24, 2006 8:28 am PT
Review:  Sonic Rush wasn't so good at all. It should have more Speed and more Characers like Shadow, Knuckels, 
 Jet, Tails and many more playable. Only 2 Characters are boring. The game was short. And there 
 weren't so much moves. And the story wasn't so exciting, too. The story should be like in Sonic 
 Adventure 2 Battle. But that game was a flopp. It wasn't so good. The graphics were good, but it 
 could be a better 3D graphic. And the game was too easy. And if you collect all A-Ranks, there 
 aren't any special characters to unlock like Shadow. In a poosible Sonic Rush 2 should be more 
 characters like Shadow (playabe) , Tails, Knuckles, Amy, Babylon Rogues, Silver and many more. That 
 would be a megastory. And a better story and more value. Like Battle Mode and Acton Mode. Team Mode 
 and many more.
  So SEGA, good luck on a possible Sonic Rush 2 and please with more value. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: CyberZero104
Rating: 4.5
Date: Sep 21, 2006 2:38 pm PT
Review:  Sonic Rush is the first Sonic game I played. I thought the game would be cool, but nope! The game 
 is mediocre for me. Oh come on, let's get on with the review.
  
  The gameplay is horrible. While SR has easy controls to learn, the blue speedster is so fast, I 
 couldn't take control of him very well. Even worse: In some areas, Sonic runs to another screen, 
 which is VERY annoying. Plus, you have to collect rings in order to stay alive. If you get hit 
 by an enemy with no rings, you lose a life. But the gameplay has an appeal: The 3D boss battles 
 were awesome. That's one of the only pros of the game.
  
  The graphics are beautiful. The sprites are 3D, and the scenes can be quite great. Plus, there 
 3D cutscenes, which is very worthy to SR's graphics. These are one of the best DS graphics I've 
 ever seen.
  
  The sound is quite nice as well. There is good voice acting, which is good, but the only con is 
 when Dr. Eggman keeps on saying You'll regret this! . Plus sound effects are nice as well.
  
  If you are a newcomer to the blue speedster, you may not find any replay value whatsoever. 
 For fans, you can find a good amount of value here. But for everybody else, no replay value for 
 you.
  
  Final words: SR pays attention to the 3D boss battles, the graphics and the sound, but everything 
 else is a no-no for me. I'd recommend this game to the most die-hard Sonic fan, as this game may 
 be nasty for other gamers. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: acein12
Rating: 10
Date: Sep 10, 2006 12:03 am PT
Review:  A game so perfect it needs more than a rating!
  
  Unlike other Sonic games, it ins't made by sega so..... don't be too surpised that its faster. As 
 you run faster you'll get a silhouette, makes it more "real"
  It also moves much faster and smoother than others. A downside is that, as you get emblems you 
 don't unlock extras. In "Sonic Adventure 2 Battle" however you would unlock things like, alternate 
 costumes, new 2p player modes, better food for raising your Chao with, and lots more. You still 
 get ranks, they don't unlock anything ether, just so you can show off. "Oh,..... I got a S,.... and 
 you didn't"
  
  Like other Sonic games, theres no extras in the adventure to check out. It just board after board. Unlike 
 other Sonic games its boards are longer and you need speed and smarts, but the game is the shortest 
 ever.... but does have diffrent ways to play the same boards.
  
  This game has a high chance of giving you a seizer, (let your eyes get used to it. For a lower 
 chance) Otherwise if you get "gameshock" or whatever, remember not to move, this game can give you 
 both simtums very fast.
  
  So, thats is it, I haven't seen 2 player modes in action on this, but I sure its good. If you have 
 a DS buy this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Spaction3
Rating: 9.3
Date: May 16, 2007 10:37 pm PT
Review:  So far all the side scroller Sonic games of Sonic Advance have geen very good, Sonic Advance 3 
 being my favorite of them, this one I feel is near one of the best Sonic games of side scrolling. 
 especially in speed. I nearly could say it was perfect. Though as a fan of the characters, I am 
 disappointed at the fate of Sonic that happened when this game was made.
  
  GAMEPLAY:
  For a side scoller Sonic game, perfect, it offered a lot of elements from the old game and the 
 new ones to keep it good on side scrolling style, plus with MANY new stuff to increase the speed 
 for what Sonic stands for to an unbelieveable level. You can not go wrong here.
  
  GRAPHICS:
  I don't really care for graphics and I find they are an over rated thing that gets 
 stupid people into buying something that sucks. But to be honest, best graphics I have seen in 
 a portable Sonic game. And I need to be fair as well
  
  SOUND:
  MUSIC:
  The music is very very cool, now it's something I would like to rip from the game and listen to 
 while I work or something.
  EFFECTS:
  The effects are pretty good. Dashing, some classic ones from past Sonic games, and a few others
 
  VOICES:
  The voices are terrible and out of character, The only decent ones are Eggman and Blaze. Tails 
 sounds nothing like a child anymore which is something I have known him as since Adventures of 
 Sonic the Hedgehog but I will admit his voice from Amy Palant in this game is tolerable. Sonic 
 on the other hand sounds lame and emotionless, like he is faking how he feels, which I find horrible 
 as Sonic is the main character, in the previous Handheld games with voices, Sonic was awesome, 
 I didn't think a different actor could kill it in a game with clips, but boy was I proven wrong. 
 Cream sounds screechy and it gives me a headache, she sounds nothing like a child anymore, in fact 
 it's SO bad I nearly want to kill myself. While the voices are why this is my low sound score rating, 
 as Jason Griffith's take on Sonic in this game is just so horrible, it ruins Sonic's Character 
 completely, not to mention his voice alone is just overall inappropriate for Sonic even with better 
 acting. I sold the game after the first week to replace it with the Japanese version. The Japanese 
 version is in NO WAY bad, Japanese voices that are in character and non ear bleeding, and just 
 all around fun.
  
  OVERALL:
  Off all side scollers I would recommend this one the most, but if you can, import the Japanese 
 version, for me as a fan of the characters and just over all, the voices and their acting in the 
 US version just kills the experience in the game if you are a fan of the characters. If it wasn't 
 for that, I would give this game a 10, but I give the Japanese version a ten none the less as it's 
 easier on vocal sound. Still in a game of anything side scrolling, I don't think you will get anything 
 better in speed. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: warlock_gamer
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 18, 2006 12:11 pm PT
Review:  Okay, the sonic franchise isnt exactly going well thanks to games like sonic adventure 1&amp; 2 
 and shadow the hedgehog. I think the problem with sonic titles these days is that there isnt a 
 sonic game that entirely focuses on the blue hedgehog anymore but instead we have to play with 
 the likes of tails cooked up in a machine or knuckles digging for bones or shadow the hedgehog 
 who doesnt have a clue what he is.
  
  The people at Sega must have saw this problem (and about time too) so they decided to catch us 
 all off guard and give us one of the greatest sonic titles ever made. SONIC RUSH.
  
  Sonic Rush is a game consisting of two characters sonic the hedgehog and blaze the cat. Whats great 
 about the two characters is that they both have attitude, they're both very fast and it doesnt 
 slow down the pace of the game. The chemistry of the sonic and blaze is a great one, much like 
 sonic and tails in sonic the hedgehog 2 . The game play is pretty much like the megadrive days 
 with a few additions like the homing attacks by using the R button to execute it. It could also 
 be used to dash forward while jumping to avoid on coming attacks which is a neat touch. You also 
 have the spinning ground attack that is pretty useful when you find yourself locked up with robots. 
 The game has use of the touch screen. The use of the touch screen is focused on the bonus stage 
 of Sonic Rush that is much like the half pipe bonus stage in sonic the hedgehog 2. You use the 
 stylus to control sonic to collect and dodge obstacles, its very neat, original and fun. You can 
 also do neat tricks on rails or jumping into the air to earn more points and level up your rush 
 meter.
  
  The greatest addition to Sonic Rush is the rush meter on the left hand side of the screen. When 
 you kill enemies or perform tricks, it levels up your rush meter and you will be able to get into 
 rush mode. To execute this, while your running hold down B and sonic or blaze will burst into high 
 speed and it'll even take down your enemies while speeding along. It's so fast it'll make you grin. 
 It's a fine idea to those who use to get frustrated on losing rings while speeding along in the 
 megadrive days.
  
  The graphics are superb. It's a 3D played in a 2D game done right. There are lots of neat touches 
 of great 3D animation that looks amazing. The game is played in a 2D style with various paths and 
 obstacles that injects depth in the game. The boss fights are amazing and fully 3D. The bosses are 
 huge, different in variety of attacks and pretty tough to kill off. The enemies in this game are 
 tricky this time around and they do come in the way when you dont expect it.
  
  The music is catchy and upbeat. As you progress through the game, the music for each theme suits 
 it really well. Blaze's theme music is identical to sonic's but with added remixes to it. One of 
 my favorite in the game is back to back , a very catchy soundtrack.
  
  The downside to the game is blaze's levels. After you finish the game with sonic you can play as 
 blaze but i feel her levels are repetitive after a while because you seen it all before and having 
 to go through it again is straining. But what pulls you through is the story line and the music. 
 But it still manages to suck you in the game because of the story and the bonuses thats on the 
 horizon.
  
  Sonic Rush is in my opinion one of the best games out for the DS. If you dont have it then you're 
 losing out. Its an excellent example of a 3D in a 2D done right. Its a excellent showcase that 
 you dont have to use a touch screen to enjoy a DS game. Its a game that sometimes you forget you're 
 playing on two screens, thats how fun and original this game is. It also has wireless play to compete 
 for the best time adding replay and value to the game. Thank you Sega! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SonicBooom
Rating: 9.2
Date: Sep 8, 2006 3:50 pm PT
Review:  Sonic returns with attitude to his famous 2D style gameplay, mixing in 3D elements in one of his 
 best games to date. Sonic Rush is an amazing burst of speed from start to the end. It's faster 
 than previous games, and despite the fact that a lot is going on at once, and you have to be quick 
 to avoid the traps and hit the robots, it's quite easy to pick up and play.
  
  The special stages, where you have to get the emeralds, are a lot of fun. Similar to the Sonic 
 The Hedgehog 2's special stage game on the Mega Drive / Genesis released in 1992, you race down 
 a half-pipe collecting rings, avoiding bombs and jumping at robots. You use the stylus to control 
 Sonic instead to the d-pad.
  
  The music fits the fast pace of the game and the sound effects are great too. Many of the gameplay 
 elements are similar to the old school Sonic games. I'd have liked to have seen some more classic 
 features in the game, such as an selection of badniks from previous games.
  
  It's hard to fault Sonic Rush. It's challenging, always fun, fast and funky :) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Quinones22
Rating: 8
Date: Sep 4, 2006 11:16 am PT
Review:  Ok Normally I dont like Sonic The Hedghog games, well I like him, just not the style of games, 
 but this one i do like. Its got great graphics and you can play as both Sonic or Blaze the Cat. 
 This game isnt a super long game which is good or bad, depends who you are. Its fun to re-play 
 the levels for More Lives or just to get a better grade on them. Theres Normal and Easy settings, 
 so its to how you play it. THe sound is good, gameplay is just like the other games, well not completely. 
 Just buy this game and see how you like it!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: RebornJeremiah
Rating: 8.7
Date: Aug 31, 2006 8:42 pm PT
Review:  If you are looking for classic 2D platform game that has a great gameplay then you won't go wrong 
 with Sonic Rush. This game really reminds me back into the old time when Sonic were still in Sega 
 Genesis though this new one has quite more features and not mentioning new character (Blaze the 
 Cat) . The graphic of the game is fantastic, may be the best of all Sonic game I have ever known 
 (except the 3D one) . The gameplay is quite easy to learn and I have to say that this game is really 
 fast. This game will keep you busy for at least a good 10 hours. Now the downside of this game 
 is that since the game is so fast sometimes you bumb into the enemy and you are unprepared and 
 you lose all your coins. Because of this, the game sorta force you to remember the location of 
 the enemy in the map to avoid crash. Also there isn't any much of differences between 2 playable 
 characters. Other than that, the game is good and the graphic is fantastic. If you are a Sonic 
 fan, you should get this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ThisisMurderous
Rating: 7.6
Date: Aug 21, 2006 6:14 am PT
Review:  Except for some new moves, a new character, and the use of two screens, Sonic Rush feels like any 
 other old school Sonic game. I'll get the negatives out of the way first. Sonic Rush is too short 
 as playing through as Sonic and Blaze doesn' really offer much variety. Also the music and voices 
 are horrible so you probably won't want your DS up at full volume. I also wasn't impressed by the 
 boss battles very much. As for the good this game has an amazing sense of speed. The levels like 
 nice and they offer variety as they don't all seem the same. They also used the two screens creatively 
 as Sonic/Blaze move between the two on the fly. If you've played any 2D Sonic game then this is 
 familiar territory but nevertheless it is a good game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Prince0fAngels
Rating: 8.7
Date: Aug 19, 2006 2:55 pm PT
Review:  I grew up on Sonic and when he went 3D the franchise just wasn't the same. 
  
  This game is the best Sonic title since Sonic and Knuckles was released! It adds a few new features 
 such as an instant rush ability and tricks. Despite these additions the game still feels and plays 
 like the classics!
  
  At first the game is a bit confusing, for it uses both screens to represent the level. During the 
 first two stages I would wonder where Sonic went and realized he had just moved to the bottom screen. 
 However, the feeling of confusion quickly fades away as you immerse yourself in this solid game.
 
  
  Chaos Emerald stages play like the first two Sonic games, he runs in a narrow track and tries to 
 collect rings and dodge enemies, however, instead of using the directional pad you use your stylus! 
 It is a very nice use of the system's abilities and doesn't feel awkward.
  
  The soundtrack is not memorable or catchy like previous Sonic games; sometimes the tracks can be 
 quite annoying. The few moments of voice acting is something I could've lived without, but I suppose 
 some would see it as a nice addition.
  
  Overall, if you grew up on Sonic, are looking for a great 2D side scrolled, and/or want a decent 
 title for a $19.99 price tag check out Sonic Rush! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Freeglader
Rating: 8.1
Date: Aug 18, 2006 3:26 pm PT
Review:  OK., so i picked up this game at my local gamestation, and to be honest i wasnt expecting much. 
 sonic games seem to have gone downhill since the transition to 3D. but i had my fingers crossed 
 anyway. i got it home, started playing and wow, i was very impressed. the speed was reminiscent 
 of the old sonic games of the genesis era, as was the soundtrack, SFX, badniks (if they're still 
 called that) . 
  The split screen works really well. the DS doesnt try to exploit the extra screen in some sort 
 of gimmicky way, but rather integrates it seamlessly into the game, and although this can be a 
 little tricky to get to grips with at first you soon get very used to it, and develop a sort of 
 sixth sense, as in you can tell when to switch from top to bottom screen and vice versa.
  There is a pretty good learning curve also, the opening levels see you racing along at breakneck 
 speeds, whereas the later levels, as in previous games, see you going slower, and are packed with 
 booby traps, and at various points instant deaths, which can get quite frustrating, as can some 
 of the bosses, some of which seem to have absolutely no strategy, or are overpowered. overall though 
 the difficulty level rises evenly, which is fine.
  Storyline is pretty good, although i think is mainly aimed at younger players, and Bonus levels 
 make a return too. these bonus levels are exactly the same as the ones on sonic 2 on the mega drive, 
 although for these ones you have to use the stylus to move sonic around giant half-pipes.
  Finally, the soundtrack and SFX are almost perfect. for any die-hard fans out there you will be 
 very pleased, as these will take you way back to the early sonic games, and for newcomers, well, 
 they will still be impressed.
  So overall a very pleasing sonic game, with only one or two minor annoyances, which dont really 
 spoil the game at all. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Blue_Ice_Fire
Rating: 8.8
Date: Aug 16, 2006 5:49 pm PT
Review:  Sonic Rush: 
  
  The 2D side scroller Game is back! but this isn't part of the Sonic Advance series! Sonic has been 
 released later last year on The dual Screen itself! The Nintendo DS! Sonic Rush uses the DS's dual 
 Screen technology to the max! as you flick between the two screens as Sonic The Hedgehog or new 
 comer Blaze The Cat to collect the seven chaos emeralds as Sonic and collect the seven Sol Emeralds 
 as Blaze as you blast through each beatuifully detailed level at break neck speeds! from jungle 
 enviroments with vine swing springs, to a huge battle ship with rocket propelled long jump pads 
 that launch you flying through the sky!
  
  The Thing about Sonic Rush is you don't know what your going to run into next whether it be a wall 
 covered in spikes to a group of enemies, to traps and long drops and so on adding to the effect 
 to give you a funner faster, frantic experiance a new feature that has been added to this new Sonic 
 Title is the ability to ''Rush'' giving you bursts of speed and making you invinceable against 
 enemies and attacks get full ''Hype Rush'' and Sonic flashes Orange and turns you into a white 
 bolt of lighting for a couple of seconds giving you maxinum speed and full power a couple of times 
 in the game you get chased by a huge ball with eggmans logo on you NEED ur Rush meter pretty high 
 to escape it without damage
  
  through each Zone using Sonic there is a special zone which like a swing which you grab onto you 
 use rush to spin it faster and faster and it creates a portal which takes you to the special zone 
 it is special too because you need to use the stylus pen to guide sonic down the half pipe collecting 
 rings as you go while avoiding obstacles like Bombs & enemies altho the enemies can be destroyed 
 by tapping them with your Stylus pen it makes Sonic jump up and smash them theres also switches 
 that need to be activated in harder special stages to make rings appear springs are good too when 
 u hit a spring you launch up in the air and circles with numbers in appear with a time limit at 
 the bottom what you have to do is tap the numbers from 1 to w/e as fast as you can to rack up a 
 better score and more rings but get it wrong or run outta time you get thrown back down into the 
 halp pipe again.
  
  Difficulty:
  
  i find Sonic Rush to be quite a challanging game with its ups and downs i mean some of the enemies 
 are placed in the most ackward places which is pissing annoying when u hit them although you lose 
 all your rings you get a chance to get them back instead of collecting 20 odd rings like previous 
 games like sonic Heroes, SA2B, SADX etc.. but some bits are fun to do like using the parachuttes 
 in Altitude Limit and Hang Glider. The special stages are particulary hard the last 3 are a pain 
 to get.
  
  Characters:
  
  Sonic: Hes back! and hes 3D in a 2D world Sonic is a great fun character in Sonic Rush the ability 
 to perform tricks while flying through the air at break neck speeds just doesn't seem possible 
 until u see him pull it off in style! rack up combo tricks to get higher points! he has his abilitys 
 like his Sonic spin and spinball power up he can also home in on enemies and item boxes by jumping 
 and clicking the ''R'' button also while performing tricks you can do it using a high flying kick 
 or just bash them out the way with your Dash Attack.
  
  Blaze: Blaze is the new comer to the Sonic universe and beleive it or not Sega didn't make her 
 another hedgehog! huzzah! well Blaze is as tough as she looks shes Fast just like sonic and leaves 
 trails of fire as she runs Blaze doesn't have the ability to Spindash but she turns herself into 
 a fire tornado which looks simply awesome she can also hover by using fire jets from her feet if 
 you hold the ''R'' button down she has different tricks to Sonic but thats about it, its just all 
 around awesome playing as her, also her dash attack turns her into a fire like comet that speeds 
 her up, and destroys anything breakable in her path
  
  Story: 
  
  The story is simple Blaze and Eggman Nega appear in Sonic's time in world in his dimension, Tails 
 finds out there is a tear in the space and time contiueim which Blaze and Eggman Nega caused, the 
 more time they spend in Sonic's dimension the bigger this hole gets which is extremely dangerous 
 for Sonic's planet, Sonic needs to find the 7 Chaos Emeralds to defeat Eggman & Blaze needs to 
 find the 7 Sol Emeralds to return to her dimension and kingdom to repair time and space. Sonic 
 & Blaze intertwine with eachother in the storyline later on, you also see Sonic's other popular 
 friends like Tails who cheers you on in Boss battles, Cream that cheers Blaze on in Boss Battles 
 Knuckles, Amy, Vanilla (creams mother) etc.. including the notorious Dr Eggman and his Nega self 
 Eggman Nega.
  
  Overall:
  
  Sonic Rush is a great game and a worth while title to be honoured on the DS, using both screens 
 advantages is just awesome watching him run round a loop going from the bottom screen to the top 
 screen to the bottom again is just so... amazing =D, the speed is unbelieveable for a 2D sidescroller, 
 3D things added in was just another clever idea made by our amazing SEGA =D 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dominirican3351
Rating: 4.3
Date: Aug 16, 2006 3:15 pm PT
Review:  Alright you think that this is going to be another great sonic games you buy it. In less than an 
 hour you can beat the whole story for the character. Also both Characters have the same story just 
 the levels mixed up. Tails / Cream can get annoying durring a boss batle. The Bosses are way too 
 easy. Even the climatic battle with blaze and Sonic is bad. What was the point in this new character 
 they should have had knuckles in it instead of this blaze. The only good part about this game is 
 that its a sonic game. So for all you who want this game, stealit or something rather than buying 
 it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: AdrenalinDragon
Rating: 8.4
Date: Aug 16, 2006 12:53 pm PT
Review:  I've been waiting for a Sonic game on the DS, and here it is. Sonic Rush!. Now is it successful?. 
 Well, I would have to say yes. It's the good old 2D Sonic and he still has his fast moves, but, 
 there are some bad things about it as well.
  
  Sonic Rush plays like the 2D sonic games, like getting through each levels and then fighting Robotnik, 
 I mean Eggman every time at the end of a level. Now, what I liked about the bosses in this is that 
 they are in 3D, and allowed Sonic to move around more. This was a nice change from the usual 2D 
 boss battles from old Sonic games.
  
  Sonic Rush also has some new moves for Sonic, such as the boost move which allows Sonic to reach 
 top speed at the touch of a button. However, many would complain that it's sticking way too far 
 from the old Sonic games, but I think it's an improvement. There are also the rails that Sonic 
 uses to grind, some rocket pads to make Sonic fly further, and the bungee cords which allow Sonic 
 to launch up. This helped to make the levels more exciting for us.
  However, there have been some annoying things about this game. Such as the 2 hit enemies (The ones 
 with the hammers) . I hate to say this but it looks like Sonic Team were trying to copy Sonic Heroes 
 for this. That's not good, since Sonic Heroes was one of the worst Sonic games ever made. Most 
 of the enemies on here were also just Eggman's standard robots, and they all had a similar look, 
 which kind of made this Sonic game repetitive and a bit boring.
  
  However, the use of the two screen were good. It allowed us to see below or above where Sonic was. 
 This would help us discover the dangers, and sometimes the screens would switch around so if Sonic 
 was on the bottom it would switch to the top. Some say the touch screen could have had a better 
 use but this is Sonic for crying out loud!.
  
  The graphics were good as well. Sonic was detailed as so were the levels. My favourites would have 
 to be the Mirage Road, Water Palace, and the Altitude Limit levels. The sounds are great in this 
 as well, but the music was kind of unusual, as most of the songs had lyrics in them and it was 
 different from most of the Sonic games. However, I liked most of the songs in the game. 
  
  So, is Sonic Rush any good? Yes it is. However, it's not the best Sonic game ever, but it's great 
 on the go. If you need a fast and super cool game, then make sure it's Sonic Rush. A must have 
 game for all Sonic fans. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sonicphoto
Rating: 8.6
Date: Nov 23, 2006 1:50 pm PT
Review:  Sonic is back once again in Nintendo's latest portable the Nintendo DS. This time Sonic's common 
 friends will not be playable like tails, knuckles, etc. Which is a bit sad however in this new 
 installment we get the introduction of a new character Blaze the Cat. She is a very mysterious 
 girl in the game not a pinky Amy style of girl. Yet one thing that remains the same is Dr. Eggman 
 only this time there is also another Eggman called Eggman Nega. A new enemy or just Eggman disguised? 
 This is one of the questions that Sonic tries to seak in the game and probably you will be curious 
 to know too.
  
  Now the gameplay in Sonic Rush is more faster then any other 2-D Sonic game you ever experience 
 before. With the help of Dual screen you can now see what will Sonic encounter when he goes down 
 or up. Yes Sonic will go from the upper screen to the touch screen and sometimes it can take you 
 by surprise so you should always pay atention to the game. The levels are pretty much Sonic style 
 that you know and love by featuring platforming elements seen in previous 2-D Sonic titles but 
 also introducing new ones. The only tricky thing about Sonic Rush is that the levels are quite 
 harder and sometimes going too fast can make you fall. Blaze is pretty much the same levels just 
 a different order but she ain't really special but is not a bad addition and certainly a more interesting 
 character then Amy.
  
  But the big different aspect here is the boss battles. Even tough you battle them in 2-D gameplay 
 the characters are in 3-D. And also sometimes the camera will change to 3-D form for a special 
 attack. Is certainly a pretty interesting addition and makes boss battles more fun then any other 
 Sonic 2-D game. Each boss will have their different style to get beat whether is pushing something 
 to him or jumping on his head, etc.
  
  Overall Sonic Rush is a really great addition that is worthy of the Sonic name. Sonic fans should 
 definetely pickup this title. And non fans can still give it a try renting it you will certainly 
 have enjoyment with it. Another really great 2-D experience like New Super Mario Bros. for the 
 DS collection. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Gamer_152
Rating: 6.5
Date: Jul 20, 2006 10:15 am PT
Review:  Sonic Rush brings Sonic to the Nintendo DS, his first title is definately worth getting for Sonic 
 fans and high speed game lovers alike.
  
  The graphics are fairly bright and colourful and able to depict the game environment to the extent 
 we expect from a handheld Sonic game. However Sonic (or Blaze) as well as all the boss stages are 
 done in 3D but not incredibly well. The 3D graphics appear quite blocky and even if we don't expect 
 them to be incredibly detailed (after all Sonic is cartoon) I found this spoilt things slightly. 
 Luckily when your running along normal areas of the stages you will not notice this problem too 
 much.
  
  Each normal world consists of two high speed platform stages and then a boss battle against one 
 of Dr. Eggman's (or Eggman Nega's) giant machines. Unlike in Sonic Advance 3 (its handheld predecessor) 
 you don't need to get up to speed, start running and your straight up to high speed. I also found 
 the emerald stages much funner and fairer in this game (although I never did get that last emerald 
 to be truthful) as you use the stylus to guide Sonic along, to attack robots and to obtain rings 
 from the balloons and although these stages are trickier than normal stages they are not impossible 
 to get to and complete. This game also includes a "Rush Meter" at the side of the screen, fill 
 it up by doing cool tricks in the air, defeating enemies, collecting rings etc. When you decide 
 to use the power built up in the Rush Meter you will blast along immediately at top speed destroying 
 all enemies in your path.
  
  Unfortunately this game doesn't have the quality of music the other Sonic games have, this music 
 seems stranger and not really built around any real music genre but you may find a couple of good 
 BGMs in the game you like. There isn't much to mention sound effects wise, same old Sonic.
  
  The plot basically runs along the line that an Eggman from another dimension (Eggman Nega) 
 rips through to Sonic's dimension and the dimension starts to fall apart, a hero-like character 
 from the other dimension (Blaze the Cat) also bursts through looking for the Sol Emeralds in Doctor 
 Eggman's possession. This new character to Sonic is interesting, first displaying a cold attitude 
 much like Shadows although maybe Blaze talks a little more, I won't say anymore than that but Blaze 
 shall return for more Sonic games. If you like Sonic and have a DS this game is definitely one 
 to get and no matter if your not it is most likely worth a play if just to feel the quick-action 
 gameplay. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Stu1515
Rating: 10
Date: Jul 20, 2006 5:59 am PT
Review:  Sonic has alot to live up to, from having a Great history with Sega, but recently has been in games 
 that havent really done him justice.
  
  But this game, this changed it. The DS changed it.
  
  Unless you play this game, you'll never 
 be sure, the video sort of make you think its complicated to watch sonic, so you might have trouble 
 playing it.
  But you'll be wrong, its easy to see sonic.
  
  The Game shows great speed and gameplay, although you dont really kill much stuff in the levels, 
 well i didnt, i was too busy admiring the tracks and going realy realy realy FAST, witch is what 
 sonics partially about.
  
  The Game is really easy to get to grips with, youve also goto watch out for going too fast, you 
 might need to change your course part way through, and if your going too fast "Thats no Good" (Sonic 
 quote :P )
  
  The Boss battles are in 3D, and are amazing, they are a great challenge, even the first boss will 
 give you a challenge.
  
  The Game Features 2 charicters. Sonic and Blaze the Cat.
  
  Blaze the Cat is probably the best Charicter made for sonic since Knuckles.
  She is Verry Uptight 
 about herself, she will never admit she needs help.
  Is a great charicter to play, and got some nice moves.
  
  The Music is quite good and ties 
 in with the games fun'ness, fits well against the game, also there are 2 types of songs for each 
 leve, a Version for Sonic, and a Remix for Blaze.
  
  This game is just "Fun" witch is why it deserves 10!
  
  For been an inventive game and great 
 addition to a classic game's franchise.
  
  Loved it, got a DS? Buy it! Buy a DS just for this Game if you havent already got one!
  
  (Ive 
 rated this a full 10, because when i thaught about it... there is nothing wrong with this game!, 
 its Practically Perfect for my tatse, and if your a Sonic 1,2,3 fan you'll love this game too) 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kornissues111
Rating: 8.1
Date: Jul 18, 2006 1:33 pm PT
Review:  Gameplay- Im not gonna spend to much here cause its sonic and unlike the Advance games. In Rush 
 you literally hold right and go. But the Boss battles are all in 3d and dont look to bad. Also 
 the emerald challenges are in classic sonic 2 style and are they sweet.
  
  Graphics- Like i said the game runs smooth and looks great It does slow down a little but all in 
 all you can usually keep up with your character and there movement
  
  Sound-This is the games greates quality the music is great just like any other sonic game. Its 
 techno and funk all in one.
  
  Value-The game is short and even though you can play through as 2 characters this game wont top 
 6 hours.
  
  In the end its a fun game but i dont think you should pay full price Probably the shortest game 
 on the DS. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SpecialED1020
Rating: 7.1
Date: Jul 18, 2006 6:20 am PT
Review:  Sonic rush if a very fun and fast paced game. The sence of speed in the game is fantastic. The 
 gameplay itself is overall great. Except it's all too easy. You can find yourself beating both 
 sotroies in a matter of two days. Plus the stories are... weird to say the least. The boos battles 
 are fun, 3D, but again toooo easy. The levels dont have much replayablity, but they are fun first 
 time around. There isnt much to unlock after you beat the game either, so no real motivation there. 
 If you love Sonic you will love this game, if not, I suggest you renting it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: StormShadow2346
Rating: 8.4
Date: Jul 14, 2006 9:58 am PT
Review:  In Sonic Rush, you get to play as the blue dude himself, Sonic, or as Blaze the Cat, a newcomer 
 to the Sonic series who's all purple and has fire powers. In the story, something's messed up - 
 there are two Eggmans, apparently from different worlds, and they want not only the Chaos Emeralds, 
 but the Sol Emeralds as well. So, you embark on a journey to defeat the Eggmans, get the emeralds, 
 and restore peace.
  
  Graphics:9
  For a DS game, this is very good-looking. Environments look great, and they mix 2D sprites with 
 3D models rather well. Some of the effects could have looked better, but that is only a minor annoyance.
 
  
  Sound:9
  Voice acting is in. That's the bad news. The good news is that there isn't really that much compared 
 to other Sonic games - conversations usually blend minimal amounts of voice acting with text, so 
 just be prepared to read. Music in the game is mostly techno, and hardly any of it will get on 
 your nerves. Sound effects are what you expect from the series, along with some new ones thrown 
 in.
  
  Gameplay:8
  The story blends with the gameplay almost seamlessly. You never really spend much time on the world 
 map, and the stages are designed mostly for speed. Blaze plays a little differently than Sonic, 
 and is the easier story of the two. You get a navigator to help pan out the course for you - Sonic 
 gets Tails, and Blaze gets Cream the Rabbit, who immediately becomes friends with Blaze, much to 
 the cat's chagrin. Although everyone around Blaze is friendly, you can tell Blaze herself just 
 wants to blatantly scream, "I WALK ALONE!!!" and get the hell out of sight. You get back the Sol 
 Emeralds just by going through Blaze's story, but you have to play the Special Stages as Sonic 
 to get the Chaos Emeralds. It can get a little frustrating at times, especially some bosses and 
 Special Stages, but the gameplay itself is good.
  
  Multiplayer is in, but only Battle Mode, where you get to see who can get through a stage faster 
 - you or the opponent. One of you is Sonic, the other Blaze. Pick a stage and have a blast.
  
  Replay Value:7
  There's just something about the storyline that'll make you want to continue 
 to come back for more. 2 different difficulty levels give you the option to challenge yourself, 
 you can unlock Time Attack so you can try your hardest to speed-run a stage, and you can also see 
 how much time it takes for you to beat a boss. But it gets boring after a while.
  
  Overall, Sonic Rush is a good way for Sonic to debut on the DS. Sonic fans old and new will find 
 something to love about Sonic Rush, and if you haven't played any Sonic game at all (and why haven't 
 you?) , this is probably the best way to introduce yourself to the series. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: brantothehizzam
Rating: 9.1
Date: Jul 11, 2006 9:52 pm PT
Review:  finally a kick back to what sonic is all about SPEED
  3d on 2d looks reat on ds and the game moves super fast, the turbo boost is welcome as it helps 
 build up speed
  the music iseverywhere and crazy [in a good way] you'll have these tunes stuck in your head
  the 
 new character blaze isnt really that much different but it doesnt detract from the game at all
 
  if your a fan of classic sonic or you like platformers definitely pick this one up by all mean
 
  oh yeah the games pretty short but you'll want to come back for more 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Machine_Shop
Rating: 8.7
Date: Jul 11, 2006 10:32 am PT
Review:  Sonic games have always been about moving as fast as possible to get from point A to point B. This 
 stays true in Sonic Rush, it is one of the fastest Sonic games ever. Another thing that is pretty 
 much true in all Sonic games is a story just developed enough to pit you against Dr. Eggman or 
 some other bad guy. This game does exactly that, but it adds a new character, Blaze the Cat. Blaze 
 is a bit slower than Sonic but can be underwater longer and has control of fire. The two characters 
 play almost the same. One of the biggest additions is the dash attack that will let you run right 
 through enemies but you have to fill up a meter. To fill up this meter you must do tricks by hitting 
 a button at certain times such as right after you jump from a trampoline. There are many chances 
 to do this in every level so you never have to worry about not having that ramming attack. Being 
 on the DS, Sonic Rush has a clever way of using the two screens. Both screens show the area where 
 Sonic or Blaze is in as one screen does in other Sonic games however, in this one, you can go from 
 the top screen to the bottom screen through trampolines and such and at the same time, you can 
 fall to the bottom screen by missing a jump. This works very well. Also, you can collect the Chaos 
 Emeralds the same way you would in other Sonic games. You go to a bonus level where you are in 
 a half pipe run while you grap coins and if you get enough coins, you will get a Chaos Emerald. 
 You use the stylus to control Sonic or Blaze in these levels. There have always been boss battles 
 in Sonic games but this one takes a different take on them. They are in 3-D and it works well. 
 The graphics are sharp and the music is great. Overall, Sonic Rush is a great DS game. Anyone that 
 is a fan of side scrolling Sonic games will enjoy this one. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Wankese
Rating: 9.6
Date: Jul 10, 2006 5:47 pm PT
Review:  When I first thought about Sonic on the DS I was rather sceptical, but after talking myself into 
 picking it up I was totally amazed! The game is very well put together and offers a great deal 
 of replayable levels as well as other content. They didn't try to over use the touch screen and 
 that's really what made this game great! 3-D graphics, great sound, old-school feel, and just the 
 right amount of use of the systems features. Most of the games for the DS seem to try too hard 
 to use every new feature the DS offers and in the end it seems to almost always detract from the 
 game. Granted, there are a few games out there that make good use of all the features, but only 
 a few. I'd say this is a very well put together game that deserves a shot from any Sonic fan or 
 DS owner. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MavHZero
Rating: 8.6
Date: Jul 10, 2006 10:39 am PT
Review:  Sonic has deviated from his roots more times than I've had hot dinners. Not as much as Mario mind, 
 but still he hadn't gone back to the 2D styled game that made him a household name. When Sonic 
 Advance, and subsequent Advance games came out, it was a welcome return, but they didn't quite 
 catch the charm of the old Sonic games on the Genesis/Mega Drive. During E3 2004, when the DS was 
 being showcased, Sega did a demo, showing Sonic running through a stage. While impressive, people 
 had doubts about once again Sonic's deviation from his roots. Thankfully, Sonic Rush is retro, 
 but adds a couple of new twists.
  
  First off, the style of Sonic is a 2D platformer at heart, but the graphics are totally 3D. Think 
 of the recent Megaman/ Megaman X incarnations, and you'll know how its done. The games polygons 
 are detailed to perfection, and although the images can sometimes be blocky, thats because they're 
 zoomed in. What the game uses of sprites is detailed too, but you'll hardly notice.
  
  Now, Sonic has always been about speed, so a Sonic game with no speed, is no good. This has speed. 
 Lots of it. You'll practically blitz through the first couple of stages no problem. Even if you 
 aren't going particularly fast, you still feel faster than any Sonic game previously has done. 
 The levels themselves are of a larger nature, giving you more potential to run, very fast, from 
 left to right. It isn't all about running, as loosely spaced are enemies in the form of robots 
 (humanoid and not) , Pitfalls, Spikes, and obstacles. There are even points where you do something 
 other than running. However, sometimes, you may not expect these things to appear. So much in fact, 
 that you'll lose a life, completely pointlessly, because you ran into a bunch of enemies with no 
 rings.
  
  Sonic Rush's plot isn't too complicated, but it attempts to create something new. Sonic is running 
 around, fighting Eggman once again, when after an encounter with him, he notices an odd emerald. 
 When he tries to grab it, he is beaten to the post by a purple cat, who promptly runs off. Later 
 he encounters Eggman, but in a black suit, and has the name "Nega" attached to his name. The purple 
 cat is Blaze, who is searching for the 7 Sol Emeralds, which Eggman stole.
  
  Sonic retains his homing attack, spin dash, and usual tricks. Blaze comes with a floating technique, 
 and a form of spin dash. Both characters come with the trick system. As in the recent Advance incarnations, 
 by pressing the R button, a boost to the spring you just lept from could be done. Here, this boost 
 will get you points. Also pressing B in mid-spring jump will get you more points, depending on 
 how much you press it, and A is a kind of finisher move, that boosts your score even more. The 
 R button on rails also gets you points. These points count towards your rank, but also raise your 
 trick bar. Pressing and holding the X Button will make your character move at the speed of light, 
 and cover him in a temporary shield, which destroys enemies. However, while the characters have 
 fairly different moves, they both act pretty much the same, and as a result, playing through one 
 character may be a challenge, but the other will be easy. Thankfully, in the recent Sonic universe, 
 Sega have used a "Last Story" function to conclude the tale. The same is done here.
  
  While the normal levels are fairly normal, the Special Stages implement the touch screen. You guide 
 Sonic (only he can access the special stages) around, gathering rings, avoiding mines and enemies, 
 tapping to destroy enemies, and drawing through the microgames that appear by hitting certain icons. 
 These vary from REALLY easy, to VERY VERY hard.
  
  The bosses are of the normal affair, Eggman in a big robotic creation. However, the voice gives 
 you a clue on the type of attack he does. If he says "Prepare to be Schoolled", you'll have to 
 dodge, or you will die, regardless on how many rings you have! There are also some environment 
 attacks that if not dodged, will kill you instantly, or make you lose a lot of rings! The difficulty 
 of the bosses certainly has increased from the Mega Drive/Genesis Sonic games.
  
  There is an element of Multi-player, involving racing through stages using Sonic and Blaze. This 
 is as fun as it sounds, if not more so. It can be done using one cart as well, which makes it more 
 accessible! Other than that however, there really isn't a lot to offer, but most people don't play 
 for the multi-player, so the effort they went in to making the game accessible for this function 
 is remarkable.
  
  It suffers flaws. The characters aren't different enough, the level design can frustrate if you 
 blitz through the game, and there isn't much else after the game is 100% complete, but what you 
 do have, is a very fun experience, that is worth the time to play it, and makes you feel very good 
 when you complete it! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: zero10999
Rating: 9
Date: Jul 4, 2006 9:51 am PT
Review:  With tons of Sonic games on the market straying so far from the classic formula the Sonic Rush 
 really is a breath of fresh air. The 3-D Sonic games have really starting going downhill after 
 Sonic Adventure 2 (remember Shadow the Hedgehog?) . As this and the Sonic Advance games before it 
 prove, 2-D is still the best formula for a great Sonic game. The first this you may notice about 
 this game is the music. It's different for sure, but it is, hands down the best music I've heard 
 on a DS game (though closely rivaled by Castlevania) . Each level have it's own funky tune and is 
 enough to add replay value to the game in itself. This game uses really only two buttons with B 
 or A as jump and X or Y as dash. The new dash feature also adds alot to the game in making it the 
 fastest Sonic game to date. The game can admittedly get a bit repetitive but is just so fun to 
 play it doesn't really make a difference. Defitely one of my favorite platformers on the DS and 
 if you are sick of all of the 3-D Sonic games out there, definately pick this one up. It is by 
 far the best Sonic game in years (unless you're counting Sonic Mega Collection) . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sonic1288
Rating: 7.3
Date: Jun 27, 2006 10:54 pm PT
Review:  I've been waiting for this game for a long time! I still remember when it was called Sonic DS with 
 the cool gameplay and graphics. For some reason, they had to changed that. Why, Sega?! WHY?!
  
  Gameplay (8) : If beating the game perfectly wasn't so ****ing hard, I would've gave it at least 
 a nine.
  
  Graphics (8) : The only reason why this gets an 8 is because it went from 3D to 2D.
  
  Sound 
 (8) : The music is great, but the constant ring dinging can get annoying.
  
  Value (7) : This game's value would get at least a 9 if the price for it was cheaper. Only buy it 
 if you are a master at Sonic games.
  
  Tilt (6) : Sonic's debut on the DS doesn't seem to be all that fun, plus, Blaze the Cat's (the new 
 sonic character) appearance wasn't that fun.
  
  Overall: 7.3 
::::::

::::::
UserName: KYLEtheGLACIER
Rating: 8.7
Date: Jun 20, 2006 8:00 pm PT
Review:  Sonic Rush is one of the best in the Sonic series. I've played a lot of Sonic games and love most 
 all of them. This, in my opinion, is one of the best next to Sonic the Hedgehoge 2 on Dreamcast. 
 For the Nintendo DS' two screens it really takes advantage of them both. The graphics on the boss 
 fights are great and if you like the classics you will definently love this game. I'm glad they 
 made this game for the DS and that they took advantage of the DS' capabilities. This is one of 
 my favorite games for DS like many. DS' ROCK THIS WORLD!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Biryu_Berserk
Rating: 8.3
Date: Jun 19, 2006 1:33 pm PT
Review:  Sonic...
  I played sonic since I was in elementary school.
  It amused me since then.
  It came out for the DS system with better graphics, better gameplay, more characters and more features.
 
  The gameplay is really fun. It's extremely fast, and it just doesn't let your hand get off of 
 your DS until your mom tells you to stop or something. One bad thing about it is that because DS 
 is dual screen and because Sonic used this system as a part of their 'split-screen' system, it 
 kinda makes a player get confused and it takes some time to get used to it.
  Still, it's amazing.
  The graphics are really good. It's probably the best for the DS system 
 for all the DS games I have played so far. Until about a week or two ago, I was a PSP user, and 
 my psp broke and sony wanted me to pay 96 buck + tax + shipping to fix it, so I decided to get 
 a DS lite with that money.
  The graphics in this game does not remind me of DS. It makes me think that I'm playing with the 
 PSP (which I did not feel before with other DS games.)
  Especially the boss battles; the 3D graphics they have done has some cartoon rendering it in, and 
 it amuses me so much that they put that much effort into this DS system game.
  The sound is just ok. It did not improve from the old ones, and it actually gets on your nerves 
 sometimes. But, since we are not playing the game 'for' music, I'd just not regard this as the 
 part of the game.
  This game is totally worth it. It's 30 bucks, and I would say it totally payed my 30 bucks off. 
 Good graphics, good gameplay and arousing feelings of nostalgia made me love this game already! 
 (I just got it two days ago.)
  You should def. buy this game if you are either a speedy-2D action game fan or if you are just 
 a sonic fan like myself. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tazzydnc
Rating: 8.4
Date: Aug 12, 2006 6:42 pm PT
Review:  I'd like to first say I'm not a huge sonic fan. I like him well enough but on the whole I tend 
 to prefer mario. I had a couple sonic advance games and enjoyed them. My main gripe with them is 
 that they were fun for a bit, but got old fast.
  
  The graphics for sonic on DS are great. Really a nice improvement from GBA (as well it should be) . 
 The game makes good use of the system's two screens as the action will flow from top to bottom 
 as you play.
  
  In many ways this is a good thing because it lets you see far above and below where you are. However 
 its a pain with such a huge break sometimes as it will show one giant loop on both screens. It 
 takes getting used to but it really shows why nintendo should have made the screens closer together.
 
  
  There's not much to say in terms of gameplay. Its good ol classic sonic with new levels and better 
 graphics. Again I'm not a huge fan of sonic, and for some intangible reason this game didn't do 
 it for me like most of the sonic advances did. Maybe I'm sick of the franchise altogether, but 
 if you are a fan, you should love this.
  
  The sound in this game was nice I thought. Lots of new fitting music for sonic to do his thing 
 to. As far as value its pretty much like any other sonic game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GenPDP7
Rating: 6.6
Date: Jun 15, 2006 6:51 pm PT
Review:  First, as a long-time Sonic fan, it still feels wierd to be playing this title on a Nintendo system! 
 Anyway, I was pleasantly surprised with the gameplay and graphics- the dual-screen action is quite 
 interesting, and being able to see so far up and down adds an interesting and new element to the 
 franchise. 
  
  The gameplay is fairly similar to the classic Sonic sidescrollers, although Sonic Team has added 
 a few other abilities to Sonic's repretoire, such as the ability to charge up reserve energy and 
 release it, giving Sonic an instant burst of speed, and of course Sonic will often be grinding 
 around in his usual post-Sonic Adventure 2 fashion. Honestly, I'd really prefer a complete return 
 to classic Sonic gameplay (i. e. "New Sonic the Hedgehog") . All the new stuff just seems like unnecessary 
 clutter to me in terms of gameplay. You should be able to play a Sonic game with only a D-pad and 
 two buttons.
  
  The graphics are very good, but they lose some points with me because of their use of cell shading 
 on the character's sprites- it doesn't fit in very seamlessly with the rest of the game, and reminds 
 me of the worst ripoff Sonic title ever made, Sonic Shuffle.
  
  And that leaves us with the music and SFX- by far the worst part of this game. Ever since the release 
 of the Dreamcast, Sonic Team has been utterly obsessed with giving Sonic a "cool" image in terms 
 of what they seem to think are modern teenage gamers' tastes, and the effects have been far-reaching 
 and overwhelmingly detrimental. This is quite noticable in Sonic Rush, because this game has some 
 of the worst Sonic music I've ever heard (right up there with Sonic Adventure 2's "running around 
 at the speed of sound" track) . It's completely uncharacteristic of all but the most recent Sonic 
 games, and is full of "hip" vocals and screaming guitar rips that really make me want to vomit. 
 If that weren't bad enough, Dr. Robotnik (or should I say Dr. Eggman?) is on the trendy bandwagon 
 as well, and can be heard saying things like "get ready to be schooled" in the middle of a boss 
 fight. 
  
  It's long past time Sonic Team went back to Sonic's roots and gave Sonic games a more authentic 
 feel, and the first place to start is in the music. I'd also highly recommend completely ditching 
 all dialog :) This game is good, but enjoying the audio experience in a game is very important 
 to me, and this game fails miserably in that department. Maybe next time, Sonic Team! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Blitz14
Rating: 8.6
Date: Jun 2, 2006 8:09 am PT
Review:  I haven't been impressed with the Sonic titles that have been coming out from Sonic Team. Sonic 
 Rush offers you the 2-D style gameplay that they used to be in. In Rush, you feel that you are 
 in control of the blue blur that's flying past the screen, running a one-minute mile (believe it.) 
 Sonic's about speed, and that's what's in Sonic Rush.
  
  While playing Rush, the side-scrolling play will still be in use. The developer created excellent 
 level-design. They had creativity by using the two screens on the DS. The fun part is the rollercoaster 
 rides you'll be doing through the whole game.
  
  Rush still has its downsides. The game is too short. You'll still be getting cheap death while 
 traveling at lightspeed. the button-pressing, ninjitsu style of attack on the enemies gets old. 
 With unique bosses, bonus-stages, and great multiplayer, Sonic Rush is a successful return to form. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bpblu
Rating: 9.3
Date: May 24, 2006 2:21 pm PT
Review:  After Shadow the Hedgehog, it seems like I have lost ALL respect for SEGA. Ah, but that feeling 
 didn't last long, as this game saved their reputation. I swear, SEGA does know the 2D platformers 
 are where Sonic really shines! They need to stay off the 3D stuff for a while and do some more 
 2D masterpieces like this! With a throwback to the good ol' days, Sonic Rush reminds you why Sonic 
 gained popularity in the first place.
  
  The gameplay is just like 2D, simply reach the goal while collecting rings and avoiding those pesky 
 enemies. What gives me a bit of a questionable feeling is that Sonic and Blaze play exactly alike 
 (until the extra battle) . Huh... oh well. It's not too much of a bother in my eyes, but maybe Blaze 
 should've been like Silver was made... slower but more powerful. This game also carries a bit of 
 the Sonic Advance series (mostly the second) . The new thing placed in this game is the tension 
 gauge, which when used blasts your character at FULL speed and can destroy enemies who are stupid 
 enough to be in the way. Sonic also needs to use this to get into the Special Stage. Speaking of 
 the devil, the Special Stage is the only part of this game where stylus use is required. While 
 the Special Stages are pretty easy, the last one will drive you CRAZY!!! Blaze doesn't play the 
 Special Stages.
  
  The sound here... is different. Instead of normal guitar/heavy metal music like they've had, they 
 decide to take a different twist by adding more of a "pop" like style of music. Am I complaining? 
 Well, you see that 10 near the music score? The music is extremely catchy, and you'll LOVE the 
 boss music! It has always made me tap my toes. I think this music change is very good. There's 
 two versions, but unlike past games, it'll depend on the character. Sonic and Blaze has different 
 music playing, much like different music in the different acts in past Sonic games.
  
  The replay value is much like Sonic Advance, it isn't spectacular. But it's very fun to play every 
 now and then. And the game is a bit more challenging than others, especially the bosses. Then again, 
 the game reverts back to the grading system, albeit it does absolutely nothing. But think about 
 it? Can you get all S ranks? It's no easy task. Try it. Nothing will happen, but you'll get the 
 utmost bragging rights!
  
  This is a true Sonic classic, although they've thrown in quite a few new features into this game. 
 Still, the game resembles Sonic as he was in the old days, and the game perfectly captures why 
 the 2D games were so great: speed! Though some parts you'll probably take it slow, there's always 
 parts where you can blast full steam and destroy everything in your path. Also, the tougher bosses 
 and the overall tougher challenge it presents makes it a bit better than other Sonic games. It's 
 a great game, and no Sonic fan should avoid it! It'll renew your interest in the blue hedgehog! 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: fishdalf
Rating: 7.6
Date: May 22, 2006 11:36 am PT
Review:  Every gamer has at least some memories of a Sonic game; he is one of the biggest gaming mascots 
 the world has ever seen and has a global following to match. The series has gone through many changes 
 over the years from the 2D retro classics right up to the not so classic adventure games of the 
 past few years. This time Sonic takes a step back and truly returns to his roots in Sonic DS. A 
 fast-paced 2D side-scroller that not only takes place on one screen but puts the DS and its dual-screen 
 capabilities to full use. Every time you begin a level you will find yourself on the top screen 
 but as your progress through the roller coaster like levels you drop in and out of both screens 
 pretty frequently, whether it is via a huge steep slope, a spring board or some expansive crevice. 
 This is a great use of the system and makes for some pretty frantic gameplay; Im sure fans of 
 the series wouldnt have it any other way. Unfortunately this new gameplay mechanic is not without 
 its problems, you will often find yourself falling down holes or falling into enemies because you 
 just couldnt see where you were going and this becomes a major problem in some situations. 
  
  Sonic DS isnt just about hurtling through levels at the speed of light though, this time around 
 your skills will be tested that bit further as the game implements new abilities. Perhaps the most 
 prominent of these is the dash-attack which grants you the option of boosting even faster with 
 a turbo-charged bash of your Y button. This not only makes you quicker but also destroys the majority 
 of enemies that stand in your way. While this does take the need to jump at enemies away in most 
 cases you will need to rely on your reflexes to give that Y button a whack before you go charging 
 into your enemies. It isnt always that simple given the fact your boost will run out with excessive 
 use, you can however fill your meter back up by performing an array of tricks. These can be executed 
 with certain button combinations in certain situations, for example tapping your R trigger 3 times 
 in quick succession whilst grinding will result in some fancy spins. Fill your meter to the top 
 and you will temporarily gain unlimited boosting ability which can come in rather handy. 
  
  The story centres around two characters this time around, Sonic obviously playing the main 
 role and a character by the name of Blaze The Cat makes her debut outing. Both these playable characters 
 have almost identical attributes and abilities which is highly disappointing, the fact each respective 
 characters campaigns are identical only the zones are set out in a different order doesnt help 
 either. Each zone that a character completes results in a boss battle with the sinister Eggman 
 which scraps the 2D concept and delves you into an impressive 3D battle. None of these battles 
 will challenge you too any great extent, its all about memorizing some pretty standard attacking 
 strategies. Sonic DS also brings back the retro bonus stages which play out within some funky looking 
 half pipes, once completed youll earn yourself a shiny chaos emerald. 
  
  In addition to the single-player campaigns you can also take part in a multiplayer racing mode, 
 while this only supports up to 2 players you can still play with only copy of the game. The first 
 player to complete certain selectable zones wins; while this isnt the most enthralling of modes 
 it does make for a nice contrast to the story driven counterparts. Each level is sprawled with 
 power-ups to make your opponents lives as hard as possible, including one that scrambles their 
 control system which is always fun. 
  
  The graphics within this game arent all that groundbreaking by any stretch of the imagination; 
 they do however look sharp and create a sense of immense speed with no apparent slowdown issues. 
 The characters are presented in high detail as they speed along some pretty colourful looking levels, 
 each with their own vibrantly varied themes. The audio holds up pretty well also, its just a shame 
 many of the sound effects were recognizable from Sonic games over a decade old. The soundtrack 
 does a brilliant job though and the high-tempo tunes really fit the fast-paced action rather well. 
 
  
  All-in-all Sonic DS does recapture some of the magic the series created way back when, unfortunately 
 some of the levels are badly designed and become rather frustrating when you have to replay them 
 through no fault of your own. Also the characters are just too similar which results in a story 
 mode that doesnt have much lasting appeal and a multiplayer that doesnt have much variation. 
 If anyone is looking for a quick (in every sense of the word) 2D side-scrolling adventure that 
 spans not only one but two screens then this is most certainly the game for you. 
  
  Gameplay - Brings back the great sonic gameplay that we all know and love, unfortunately there 
 are minor issues with level design. 
  
  Graphics - Looks superb and plays with a real sense of speed, the characters look great in a variety 
 of vibrant levels. 
  
  Sound - Some of the sound effects used are over a decade old but a fantastic soundtrack more than 
 makes up for it. 
  
  Value - Both characters are basically the same so the single-player is not worth playing through 
 twice, the multiplayer makes for a short-term contrast. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: argianas
Rating: 7.7
Date: May 14, 2006 12:41 am PT
Review:  Back when Sega was creating the Genesis, they knew that superior hardware specs alone wouldn't 
 be enough to topple the mighty empire that Nintendo created. They needed a response a Mario, a 
 star of a flagship series that would be a system seller. The design stressed the sense of speed 
 that the Genesis was capable of rendering and a measure of attitude that Mario didn't provide, 
 and Sonic was born. And Sonic succeeded too, helping the Genesis match the Super Nintendo in market 
 share for much of the generation. In later generations, the series lost its direction and didn't 
 translate well to 3D, causing the series to stagnate and the games became about as lackluster as 
 the Sega systems they were on. In the series' first appearance on the Nintendo DS, Sega was mostly 
 successful in its aim to recapture the magic that the series had in its Genesis days, but naturally 
 recaptured the same flaws as well.
  
  The game opens with Eggman up to no good yet again (why they ever changed his name from Dr. Robotnik 
 to Eggman I'll never understand) . Upon defeating him, a mysterious cat named Blaze scoops up the 
 emerald he drops, comments that she got the second, and runs off. Sonic soon runs into Eggman again, 
 who refers to himself as Eggman Nega. It turns out that Blaze and Eggman Nega are from a parallel 
 world, and that the Sol Emeralds are their versions of the Chaos Emeralds. Toss in some nefarious 
 schemes of world domination, and you have your classic bare-bones platformer story. In other words, 
 the developers are trying to justify why we're running to the other side of the screen, but in 
 the end we probably don't care all that much more than we did in the past.
  
  The same basic gameplay elements return - Sonic speeds through loops, twists, and jumps on a 2D 
 platforming sidescroller. Along the way he collects rings, 100 of which gives Sonic an extra life 
 (thanks Mario!) . If Sonic runs into an enemy or a trap, he'll die if he has no rings, and all his 
 rings will go flying all about if he does have at least one. There are also a few other powerups 
 available, including temporary invincibility and a shield that will absorb one hit. If you played 
 any platformer before, you'll be able to pick this one up in no time.
  
  The level design is what would be expected from a Sonic game, with all the familiar themes in the 
 level design. There are seven themed areas, with two stages each followed by a boss battle. There's 
 the standard grassy hills area, the water area (complete with underwater sections where you must 
 take advantage of air bubbles every so often to stay alive) , and a sky area among others. Each 
 of the worlds isn't totally linear, as there are multiple paths to take to the goal. Generally 
 the higher path is either the easier or more rewarding, but you'll need to anticipate your jumps 
 to make it up there safely.
  
  A tension gauge is present that, when used, you'll bust forward with a surge of speed and knock 
 out nearby enemies. The most typical way to fill the guage is to perform flips on jumps and tricks 
 while sliding on rails. This gives you something to do on some of the longer jumps and slides, 
 but in the end is little more than mashing the B or R buttons until your feet reach solid ground. 
 In the end I rarely used the boosts that much, as there was frequently a plunger not far ahead 
 that would fire you off at high speeds anyway. The mechanic is most useful in the time attack mode 
 (unlocked once you beat the game) , or to try to get a higher score. In each stage you get a score 
 based on your speed, stunts, and rings collected and a rank based on the score, but there's no 
 score requirements anywhere in the game. If your sole goal is to complete a level, then finishing 
 it with a lowly C or a superb S will have no tangible differences.
  
  The boss battles themselves have a new style - pseudo 3D. While the fights themselves are polygonal, 
 it's mostly just for a new camera angle for certain attacks than anything else. Your control of 
 Sonic will still be limited to running back and forth on a narrow platform, or a circular platform. 
 In the end this is one of the better transitions, as it spruces up the otherwise flat environments 
 yet still maintains the familiar working formula of the franchise. Each boss takes eight hits to 
 defeat, and are usually only open to damage during a counterattack. They also become progressively 
 more difficult the more damage they take. However, most bosses (save the final one) aren't all 
 that difficult, and some are actually repeated, which is puzzling given the relative shortness 
 of the game.
  
  Short is something the game certainly is, despite its attempts to be otherwise. The 14 courses 
 and 8 boss battles only take a few minutes each once you get familiar with each area. That's probably 
 about 90 minutes of gameplay on a replay of the game. Once you beat the first boss, though, a new 
 playable character opens up, Blaze the Cat. With Blaze you experience what could be classified 
 as the story from her perspective and run the courses in a different order, but other than that 
 you'll feel like you're playing the game a second time - because you are. The differences in gameplay 
 between Sonic and Blaze themselves are very minor - they're both just about as fast, have the game 
 controls, and the same moves (though with different animations) . Completing the game once also 
 opens up a time attack, letting you save the scores of your best runs through the various levels, 
 and a sound test that lets you play any sound track.
  
  There is some incentive to go through the game with both characters, though. The ending for each 
 seems to be lacking a real conclusion to the story - it turns out that there's an unlockable extra 
 zone that can be considered the true final boss. To get this, you must finish the standard game 
 with both characters, and retrieve all the Chaos and Sol Emeralds. The Sol Emeralds are automatically 
 retrieved in Blaze's scenario, leaving you to get the Chaos Emeralds yourself with Sonic. This 
 is done by entering a little bonus level at specific points - one in each of the seven areas for 
 each of the seven Emeralds. Here you'll be running through a 3D halfpipe littered with rings and 
 various hazards, and a certain ring quota must be met at checkpoints along the way. Control of 
 Sonic is accomplished by using the stylus; moving it across the curve of the halfpipe moves Sonic 
 across as well. It's a nice little diversion, with the difficulty scaling upwards as you progress; 
 getting the final Emerald can take quite a few attempts.
  
  But a game's value all boils down to whether or not it is fun. Perhaps it's just favorable memories, 
 but the original Sonic games seemed a lot more like platformers, where your progress depended on 
 timing your jumps. In Sonic Rush, you'll find that various speed boosts always seem to drive you 
 along a predestined path, and there's ramps at the end that essentially make jumps for you to the 
 next conveniently-placed platform or jumping spring. In a way, the tricks you can do on jumps and 
 slides keep you hitting buttons long enough to not notice that you make relatively few button presses 
 that actually has any real impact on your well-being. Also, since the game takes the height of 
 the two screens into account, there's a slight feeling of being "zoomed in" on Sonic, giving you 
 less area to see ahead of you. Add this to the fact that you're moving faster than ever, and your 
 reaction time to avoid any enemies in your path is very limited. A lot of times you'll just run 
 into them, possibly losing a life, and will have to memorize where they are for your next run. 
 As for lives themselves, they're just a nuisance since you can repeatedly run through the first 
 level and gain up to three lives in under two minutes each run, so this just adds a little bit 
 of tedium to the game. There's also a 3D hanggliding segment in the sky level that either has an 
 odd sense of depth or bad collision detecting - there are times I was certain I got a ring or hit 
 and enemy and didn't, and found avoiding enemies to be easier than it seems.
  
  The level designs themselves are rather colorful and vibrant and match their theme well. Since 
 you're running so fast past them, it's really hard to find the time to identify any of the flaws 
 in the environments. The characters and enemies themselves are polygonal, making their animations 
 a lot smoother than you can get from sprites. The 3D sections get the job done visually, making 
 for an enjoyable change of pace from the standard 2D portions. The music for the cutscenes are 
 rather mediocre, but the music from the levels themselves are simply superb. The tunes match so 
 well with the feeling of the franchise, and are each very catchy. You'll likely find yourself going 
 to the sound test to replay a few of them at least once. The occasional voice acting clips are 
 decent, but Cream's high-pitched voice is very annoying each time it comes up.
  
  Sega made an admirable attempt to recapture the magic of their Genesis Sonic titles, but there 
 were a few little elements missing that left Sonic Rush a little short of its goal. Still, the 
 direction the title took is encouraging, and the ride is enjoyable while it lasts. Those that fondly 
 remember the series will likely enjoy some of the nostalgia this game brings to the table, while 
 it's also a good recent entry point to those that have yet to experience the series. With a few 
 tweaks here and there, a theoretical sequel could reestablish Sonic as one of the best 2D platformers 
 available. But until that happens, Sonic Rush is one of the stronger recent titles in the series 
 and is worth the price of admission if you are not looking for a game with too high of a replay 
 factor. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: poetsoul
Rating: 6.6
Date: May 26, 2006 6:31 pm PT
Review:  Overall the game is fast-paced and does a great job of showing off sonic's speed. 
  
  The developers clearly wanted to use the DS technology as much as possible, and they did it with 
 mixed success. 
  
  Good: 
  The most entertaining part of each zone is the special warp world that Sonic can enter, in which 
 the player uses the touch screen to dodge left and right and survive a 3d challenge course (reminiscent 
 of Sonic 3D) . This is actually very enjoyable, and my favorite part of the game.
  
  Bad: During the main courses, however, Sonic switches randomly through screens. It feels confusing, 
 and uneccesary, and more like a gimmick than a solid part of the gameplay. At other points it's 
 painfully obvious that the designers weren't sure *what* to put in the the second screen... Tails 
 and Cream shouting encouragement during boss fights doesn't quite cut it.
  
  The players of previous sonic games know what to expect for game plot. This is more of the same, 
 folks... no surprises there.
  
  Overall, a decent game, but nothing inspiring. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TakashiMaze
Rating: 9.6
Date: May 8, 2006 9:19 am PT
Review:  Back in the early 90's, Sega unleashed the first Sonic the Hedgehog game onto their video game 
 consoles and started a gaming phenomenon. Since video gaming took the big leap into 3D however, 
 Sonic just hasn't been able to keep up and became a big disappointment. Unfortunately, what made 
 the original Sonic game such a blast to play just doesn't cut it in this age of super-graphics 
 and innovation... Until now.
  Behold Sonic Rush, which you can immediately see from any screenshot is a very retro looking title 
 in which Sonic Team get back to their roots and try to recreate what made the game great to begin 
 with.
  Sonic Rush plays very well, even if a lot of the time you find yourself holding the same direction 
 and letting the level design just carry you to the ending. This was also a problem in the Sonic 
 Advance games that came before it, especially Sonic Advance 2. If you're shooting for some high 
 scores, rankings and secrets however, you have to get tricky with your thumbs so the game is quite 
 a challenge, especially in the later levels.
  Speaking of the levels, they are beautifully designed and flow very nicely, even though they're 
 2D while the Sonic model (and Blaze the Cat) is in 3D.
  Boss battles and Special Stages are a riot! The increasing challenge for both of these will make 
 you play them again and again, especially the very final battle but I won't spoil that for you.
 
  
  Pro's: Fast and furious gameplay with a great selection of well-designed levels. Fantastic graphics 
 in both 2D and 3D. Playing with 2 screens adds to the fun. Long lasting, with things to go back 
 and do later. High quality sound track.
  
  Con's: Early levels are just far too easy and can be completed with your eyes closed (for real) . 
 Voice actors may make your ears bleed. Laggy multiplayer option causes slowdowns which make it 
 pretty much unplayable with 2 players. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: brockpeterson1
Rating: 9.6
Date: May 7, 2006 7:46 am PT
Review:  Sonic Rush like I said is a great superb game but it has weird music but the music on this game 
 is really cool to but weird I thought it had way cool graphics ( thats of course just what think 
 ) and it has way fun stages to play to the only stage that did drive me nuts is the casino stage 
 ( thats just my opinion ) the casino stage I like keep falling off the edge. You also get to fight 
 bosses in 3-D which I thought was way cool. you also get to be Blaze the Cat She has fire moves 
 to attack bad dudes I thought that was pretty cool ( thats also just my opinion you might have 
 a different opinion ) this game dose not use a pen much just for the opening title in the game 
 whats nice about this game is you get to beat sonics story blazes story then last story ( for the 
 last story you will need to get all chaos emeralds and beat sonics story and blazes ) this really 
 is a great game just kinda weird music its still cool music if you want to buy a new sonic game 
 you should buy sonic rush but remember that is just my opinion. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hells_zargon
Rating: 8.7
Date: May 4, 2006 10:59 am PT
Review:  Sonic games can always be predicted. Maybe a few loops here and there coupled with a few springs 
 and spikes but it always boils down to running very quickly. That hasn't aged at all.
  
  The game is a real credit t the DS with a very fast pace, great levels, really nice music and a 
 decent amount of bosses to defeat. The new character to the Sonic series, Blaze, is also a nice 
 addition being slower than Sonic, but being much more controlable in the air and with more of a 
 focus to attacks rather than just full out speed. The trick system is also a great idea, ensuring 
 that you never get bored during air time and also have a handy speed boost in case you suddenly 
 grind to a halt on a particuarly annoying obstacle. The raw speed of the game means that the touch 
 screen is never used fully, but it isn't needed with Sonic flicking between the two screens like 
 a ping pong ball fired out of a artillery gun. 
  
  Bosses are probably the best bit of the game with full blown 3D graphics on 2D platforms, it gives 
 the game a real quirky feel which shows off the DS hardware without spoiling the classic feel of 
 the game at all. 
  
  The only two faults with the game is that Blaze doesn't seem quite different enough to Sonic at 
 times, making levels seem very similar with both characters but the main problem is that there 
 are only two palyable characters in the game. It would have been much better if Tails and Knuckles 
 were included as well, just to round the game off a little bit more, adding a little bit more length 
 to the game at the same time. 
  
  Overall Sonic seems to be back on form and his first outing on the DS really does deserve its speedy 
 name.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: murlow12
Rating: 7.4
Date: May 3, 2006 7:04 pm PT
Review:  Sonic's newest adventure for the DS is more of the same, which is probably why I found myself bored 
 about halfway through the adventure. The fast pace is just what I remember from previous Sonic 
 side-scrollers, but it becomes repetitive quickly. The sound is uninspired and almost annoying. 
 The game has some replay value since you can play the adventure mode as either Sonic or Blaze, 
 but regardless of which hero you choose, there is little difference in gameplay or content. For 
 fans of the Sonic series (such as myself) , this game is worth playing for the nostalgic memories. 
 For everyone else, Sonic Rush might be better enjoyed as a rental. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Ace91
Rating: 8.1
Date: Apr 27, 2006 11:01 am PT
Review:  Hmmm..... YAY! A 2D view game with a 3D Sonic! evrything we wanted... exept the opposite... (Sonic 
 X-Treme)
  
  Well, this is a great game and it's defenitly one of the best games for DS
  
  and the bosses are in full 3D which is good, too bad this game is so short, 7 levels and then 
 Final. Well... there is a Super Sonic battle also ofcourse, this new character "Blaze The Cat" 
 is a typica one-game character, just like Wave, Jet, Storm, Tails Doll, Black Doom and so on, she 
 will probably not be in another game. The music and sound is litterarly the most anoying noise 
 I have ever heard in a game. the graphics altough blends in veeeery nicely. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: stevey_p7
Rating: 8.6
Date: Apr 15, 2006 7:37 am PT
Review:  Im pretty impressed with this game as already having Mario on DS which is amazing i didnt know 
 if it would live up to the hype. How wrong i was. Sega have really done well with the 3D graphics 
 engine on this game and its a technically sound game to play.
  
  There are some improvements i would suggest though. In comparing it with mario DS which has lots 
 of fun mini games, this really only has one big level completion game. This is fine but i like 
 the fact of having idle games to play when having 5 minutes spare.
  
  Overall it is a game which any sonic lover with a DS should look to buying because it is really 
 fun to play and goes nicely with the already acclaimed franchise.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: cruncher_77
Rating: 8.8
Date: Apr 14, 2006 5:12 pm PT
Review:  Sonic Rush is an over-all AMAZING game. The music is good but gets kind of annoying at times. I like 
 the parts when the characters actually talk (except Cream's squeaky voice) . I have spent so much 
 time enjoying this game! Its graphics are great for the 2-D parts but with the 3-D parts its somewhat 
 polygonical. The gameplay is ablosutley wonderful.... (so wonderful I can't put it down and get late 
 for things) You MUST buy this game! Its a great Sonic game.
  You definately won't be disapointed (did you know that Sonic Rush is the fastest game of all the 
 Sonic games?) . Well, I guess that wraps up this review. One more thing though... BUY SONIC RUSH! Got 
 it? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TonyBlazza
Rating: 8.1
Date: Apr 7, 2006 11:49 am PT
Review:  Starting with the good bits:
  This game is all about lightning fast gameplay, all about moving about the two screens in minutes. 
 An old criticism of sonic games is that all you need to do is stab right and watch the levels fly 
 by, well this game fits that criteria well; but if you've enjoyed the old school side scrollers 
 but want more speed, then this is right for you. 
  
  However it's marred by soundtrack ranging from the so-so to the rubbish. The voice acting is gratingly 
 annoying, particulary the high pitched Cream and Tails. Occasionally you'd run into slowdowns, 
 when the explosions come around but otherwise the game plays smoothly.
  
  It's also quite short, though you'd excpect that in a side scroller; after all if it goest on for 
 too long, it would become repetitive.
  
  All in all, the best 2D Sonic game since the old days. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: YamataDragon
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 1, 2006 12:37 pm PT
Review:  Sonic Rush is so cool. The music for the bosses is awesome. It does take some time to get used 
 to the game and how to fight the bosses, but it is worth it entirely. The graphics are so cool. 
 How the bosses are fought is also awesome. Some are fought on a circular column and some are fought 
 on one row. the zones are tricked out in many ways possible. The zones are longer than those on 
 the old Sonic games but they are so freaking cool. I am so glad i cashed in NickToons: Unite! fr 
 the DS and got this game. It is WAY better than that one. Trust me. I have been video gaming since 
 i was four. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Vexx88
Rating: 8.7
Date: Mar 27, 2006 3:02 pm PT
Review:  Its great espisecialy since u have a new charecter Blaze the Cat anyway
  
  THe Gameplay is awesome because of the tricks u can do in the Air and on the rails but Sonic and 
 Blaze seem to be to alike 
  
  Teh Sound What an awesome Soundtrack the songs are just awesome but as usuall the Voice acting 
 is not.... how can i put this....... Gold but because of the awesome Soundtrack thats why it is great
 
  
  Graphics nice mix of 3-d and 2-d and thats pretty much it its sonic after all so yea
  
  Value ill give that a Silver wroth buying but u will probably sell it pretty fast because the 
 story mode is also relativly short
  
  Overall Great addition to the sonic family of games
  
  ~Cameron Simon~ 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jorw
Rating: 9.1
Date: Apr 28, 2006 8:00 pm PT
Review:  There are many new concepts in Sonic Rush that you won't find in any other Sonic game, and each 
 of them are welcome additions to the Sonic series.
  
  First off, there is a new way to gain speed without rolling: power boosting. At any point where 
 Sonic (or Blaze) is on the ground, you can hold down the X or Y button to power boost. Doing this 
 will allow Sonic or Blaze to move incredibly fast, but only for a short period of time. You have 
 a limited amount of boosting time, due to the Boost Meter (I don't know what it's actually called, 
 but i'll just call it the Boost Meter for now) . If you're ever running low on Boost power, you 
 can defeat enemies or do awesome stunts (pressing the B or A button while flying through the air) 
 to get the meter back up.
  
  The bonus stages are pretty fun, too. It's pretty much the same thing as the Sonic the Hedgehog 
 2 bonus stages, but you use the stylus to move sonic around the half-pipe. You try to get as many 
 rings as you can (avoid the spikey balls!) to get the Chaos Emerald.
  
  Overall, Sonic Rush is the best Sonic game we've had in quite a while, and I sure hope that Sega 
 will put this much effort into future Sonic games. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: youngcoghill
Rating: 9.3
Date: Mar 26, 2006 6:34 pm PT
Review:  This is what all of us who play all the old good sonic saw in the game. First the gameplay back 
 to the good old days. Sonic is fast that is how it should be. fighting is left up to you and your 
 supplie of rings if your rings are running low you keep moving. the tricks feel like they have 
 move of a point now. the boosting is fun. 
  Next the story's good none of the make Sonic edgy crap here. thank god this just take me back to 
 when sonic was good. some of the charters still get on your nears after a while *cough tales cough* 
 but it does not hurt the game.
  Now for the graphics fast and smooth as it shoud be. all the chartes are are 3d with 2d background. 
 this helps you keep your eyes on the chartes. wich isx good because they move fast. 
  The gameplay feels fast like a Sonic game should. the use of the touch screen for the emaroled 
 races is a little weird at first but as you get used it works. the boosting is good because you 
 just should not be moving slow in this game.
  For the sound the music is good but as i said before some of the charters get on my nerves
  Over 
 all this game is the right place to start if your new and will bring back the good old days if 
 your not. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nelfer320
Rating: 9.7
Date: Mar 26, 2006 9:35 am PT
Review:  I've heard everywhere that this game was really good and it is better than good. This game is unbelievably 
 fun and addictive. I'm a huge sonic fanatic so I had to pick it up with my first nintendo ds and 
 really enjoyed it. I have been playing this game for hours. The new 3d/2d graphics are so awesome 
 almost like a remake from the first sonic game on the genesis console. The new story was good and 
 the background music goes great with there adle levels. This game would really own if your able 
 to play as the other characters like knuckles and tails. Quickly pick up this game if you own a 
 ds or if your about to get one. Especially if your a die hard fan of the series. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Video_Game_King
Rating: 9.6
Date: Jul 17, 2006 5:50 pm PT
Review:  It seems that with every major Sonic game of this generation, the quality declines a bit. The 3D 
 games are broken and just plain too easy and seem to be rehashes while the 2D ones are great but 
 almost always overlooked. But finally, one Sonic game combines the great gameplay of the 2D's with 
 the notoriety of the 3D games. That game is Sonic Rush.
  
  Where to begin, where to begin. The gameplay is a blast from the past. It ditches almost all the 
 innovations of the new games in favor of the old games, but still has new material that flows greatly. 
 Each course you'll blast through in roller coaster meets pinball like fashion. And this speed also 
 adds a new move: the trick. Sure, it was in the Sonic Adventures, but it never really played much 
 of a role. This one's trick system rewards you for originality and is actually used to access the 
 special stages. And about the special stages, they're basically Sonic 2's. For those who don't 
 know of them, you were in a half pipe grabbing rings and avoiding the ring sucking spikes. The 
 major difference here is the way you play it. You'll make use of the second screen's touch system, 
 which seems to fit in so perfectly that you'll say "Why didn't that make it in Sonic 2?". The boss 
 battles take place in true 3D. Sort of. Even though it takes place in 3 dimensions, the movement 
 is limited on a 2D axis, only moving left and right. The most disappointing part of these boss 
 battles is that they're almost always the same damn thing with a power boost and some new moves. 
 This even applies to the second mode, as Blaze The Cat. That's right, there's a second character. 
 Without spoiling much, she's trying to save her own dimension by collecting the Sol Emeralds. I 
 know, clich, but it seems to work. Her game isn't as good as you'd think. In fact, the only differences 
 are her abilities (hovering and fire) and the arrangement of the course. Despite this, it all wraps 
 up nicely and for pretty long, offering a pretty good challenge.
  
  Now onto the graphics. The graphics offer a vibrant, colorful display of the environment, whether 
 it is a deep rainforest to a psychedelic, LSD-inspired half pipe. The characters are presented 
 in full 3D, and they take full advantage of that. You won't see lighting or shading, but they'll 
 manipulate themselves as such and will zoom in and out with illusionary 3D effects.
  
  The music in this game is a huge departure from the kiddy Sonic themes. It's all weird techno, 
 adapting to the course. It's not good, not bad, but different, and I love it.
  
  If you want a good Sonic game or just a game that'll last you quite some time, consider purchasing 
 this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sentay0
Rating: 9.4
Date: Mar 16, 2006 6:59 am PT
Review:  The first Sonic game for the DS happens to keep together that classic formula that we've all come 
 to know and love and mixs it with some really slick graphics. The sound is perfect down to the 
 last ring. I think that this game is worth every penny of the forty dollars I got it for. Sometimes 
 the difficulty rises and you get thrown into the same pit again and again. The only problem with 
 this game is the replay value, after you have unlocked Super Sonic you can't really go back to 
 get the same exhilarating adrenaline rush you got the first time. All in all this game follows 
 the general Sonic blueprint and gives us a very good game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: QuakeOne
Rating: 8.3
Date: Mar 15, 2006 4:29 pm PT
Review:  The original Sonic games started a craze, who can ever forget the first time you switched on your 
 megadrive and heard that boy choir (?) shout SEGAAAAAA? What followed was fast, fun and downright 
 fluid gaming. 
  Sonic has had trouble in 3-d and if you've played the downright nasty Sonic heroes you'll know 
 that! However on the handhelds Sonic has seen some return to form with the rather good GBA incarnations 
 and this fantastic DS game which brings the Speed back to Sonic as well as some nifty new moves.
 
  
  The first thing you notice about this game is the graphics, they are beautiful. Bright colours 
 fill both screens and when you're moving the levels pass you by as breakneck speeds without losing 
 any of their charm. Both screens are used as one second you are running across a vine on the top 
 screen only to have the floor go out from under you and drop onto the bottom screen landing into 
 a room full of enemies.
  The number of different routes you can take to complete the levels certainly offer more replays 
 of each level, this has always been a great part of sonic games though.
  
  Sonic has some new moves in his trick attacks, drifts and dash. Whilst grinding on poles/vines 
 and whatnot, simply press the r shoulder button and sonic will do a trick which in turns charges 
 his boost meter. The boost meter can then be used to dash sonic forward in an invinceable burst 
 of speed which can bash through enemies. This is especially useful while going full pelt through 
 a level and pressing the dash button just before an enemy to wipe them out your path but carry 
 on at full speed. The new tricks add depth to the "jump, run, roll" work ethic of sonic games.
 
  
  You have to mention Blaze with this new game too. The story mode is set out with text and short 
 cut scenes so you dont really get a great feel for Blaze and her side of the story mode is pretty 
 much identical to Sonics. This leaves Blaze feeling a slightly pointless addition to the Sonic 
 family when knuckles could've easilly filled her part of the game. Blazes ability to float after 
 a jump is a nifty trick though I doubt we shall see the character in future sonic games.
  
  Touch screen plays a part in the mini game in sonic which is like the half pipe level from sonic 
 2. Here you use the stylus to guide sonic into rings and away from bombs whilst touching enemies 
 with the stylus to bash them away. There is a "half pip" level in each stage and these are used 
 to unlock the chaos emeralds and you WILL want to collect them all.
  
  A mention should go to the boss fights too, which are you standard sonic affair of Robotnik and 
 his crazy robots. The boss fights take the action away from 2-d however and put it into an "almost" 
 3-d environment. These fights are pretty fun but can be completed without a great difficulty.
 
  
  As a Sonic fan I cant recommend this game enough, it is pretty short and not too difficult but 
 while it lasts it will remind you why Sonic is still the best and fastest hero out there. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: blkdragz
Rating: 9.6
Date: Mar 12, 2006 4:40 am PT
Review:  sonic games have been on a decline with the new spin offs (shadow the hedgehog) and new 3d platfoming 
 games with dodgey cameras, but this games a saviour. The story mode has a bit of a story but if that 
 wont keep you palying the sheer fun of the levels will. sonic is actually fast this time nd with 
 a tap of a button u can get him up 2 speed up again or make him faster and plow through enemys. u 
 can play the levels as many times as u like and the main levels are set out in 2d side view with 
 the odd clever bit of 3d. ones u finish the two levels in that zone u go onto a boss battle. this 
 is 3Dish the and the bosses range from snakes 2 birds. the battles can get frustrating if you cant 
 see their weaknesses and chances 2 attack. the new character blaze is fun 2 play. There is multiplayer 
 but i dnt find it 2 good and if u no a mate whos got the game but u dnt he can send u a demo 2 
 try it out wich i thought was cool. all in all a fun game 2 play some bosses can be frustrating 
 but otherwise you wont get bored quick and youll want 2 keep playing your favorite levels. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MetalShadow0
Rating: 8.6
Date: Mar 11, 2006 5:57 pm PT
Review:  a ton of people loved the old sonic the hedgehog games, but they complained that sonic adventure 
 was completely different. well, now sonic is back on ds, using full speed action, graet graphics, 
 crazy stages, pretty difficult, insane music for ds, and another character. the game also has its 
 own storyline, its not just running around doing nothing. you can also collect all the emerlads, 
 and view the last real story. this game is insane speed and its really fun. the only bad part about 
 it is its kinda short, and once you beat it, you odnt really play it again. but i recommend this 
 game to all old school sonic fans. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SonicKid_UK
Rating: 8.3
Date: Mar 11, 2006 1:42 pm PT
Review:  Sonic the Hedgehog has come to the DS with a resounding THUD of dissappointment. I love the game, 
 BUT it is essentially the same old Sonic. Good fun, very addictive but I have played similar levels 
 in at least 1 other Sonic game before and the boss battles don't vary much from those on Sonic 
 Adventure 2 on my Dreamcast. A new character has been thrown into the mix to liven things up a 
 bit but not by much. Once you get round to unlock more characters the game picks up and you can 
 do more. An absolute essential for those who love classic Sonic but if you were looking for something 
 new this is not it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Chikinware
Rating: 8.6
Date: Mar 11, 2006 7:58 am PT
Review:  Information --
  System: Nintendo DS
  Developer: Sonic Team
  Publisher: Sega
  Release Year: 2005
  
  Introduction --
  Sonic Rush came and despite Sega's worst year in a 
 while completely redeemed Sega with its polished old-school feel. It's 2D side-scrolling at its 
 fastest. It was this concept that made the original Sonic games such a hit and Rush is no different. 
 With added challenges and large (both horizontally and vertically) levels there is something for 
 both old and new Sonic fans to life. To acquaint you with the game here is a synopsis from Sega 
 (http://www. sega. com) :
  
  Synopsis "Everyone's favorite blue dude with 'tude, Sonic the Hedgehog, blasts his way onto the 
 Nintendo DS and takes high-speed action gaming to a whole new level  literally! Sonic pairs up 
 with royalty - Queen, Blaze the Cat - from another dimension to save the universe from utter destruction. 
 Sonic Rush takes full advantage of the dual screens on the Nintendo DS system to deliver a frenetic 
 adventure with dizzying dives, near vertical curves, extreme jumps, brain-twisting loops and more!"
 
  
  Gameplay -- 9/10
  The gameplay in Sonic Rush is simple in concept yet complex in execution. The goal is to get through 
 7 Acts each with two levels and a boss battle. The goal of the levels is to go rightwards while 
 slamming into enemies and traversing the complex and dangerous platform obstacles. The major difference 
 from old-school Sonic would be some of the new level obstacles and the vertical level design. The 
 vertical level design is thanks to the DS' dual screens and adds a lot of fast-paced up and down 
 (in addition to the speedy rightward run) action. The levels are flawless in design as they are 
 complex enough to not be mindless yet they are in beatable after a few tries for the average player. 
 As for the bosses they are very different in appearance and attacks yet to beat them you usually 
 have to figure out their weak spot and when in their attack you can hit it. Overall the only problem 
 with the gameplay would be the lack of touch screen use. I am amazed that Sonic Team couldn't think 
 of one level feature involving the touch screen. Other than that the game is delightfully old-school 
 yet different enough to be fun.
  
  Graphics -- 9/10
  Sonic Rush has excellent graphics. The backgrounds are hand-drawn and look as glossy and stylish 
 as ever. The characters are detailed polygons that give the game an updated look. The game has 
 excellent blur effects to simulate speed so overall the gameplay graphics are very nice. Of course 
 the token Sonic art style is present as well. As for cutscenes there are some limited FMVs that 
 are nicely animated and do a good job of stringing the levels together. There isn't much to say 
 about Sonic Rush's graphics and there is only one real complaint. The complaint is the lack of 
 effects. There are only a few effects but I feel that the game should have more. Sonic Rush keeps 
 the classic Sonic look and only changes it ever so slightly and of course for the better.
  
  Sound -- 9/10
  Sound is another area Sonic excels in. The sound effects are classic Sonic 
 and there is no problem with them. The music is an interesting change for Sonic. The soundtrack 
 consists of weird songs reminiscent of Jet Grind Radio. The game even features some minimal voice 
 acting (basically sounds such as damage sounds like "Ahh!") . This is also an area where there isn't 
 much to complain about. Sometimes the music in the level could get irritating or distracting. Sonic 
 Rush has overall good sound.
  
  Value -- 8/10
  Sonic Rush is a great addition to the Sonic franchise yet it has a few issues with value. First 
 of all the story is yet another spin-off that adds more clichd characters to the already huge 
 Sonic mythos. While some would call that value I believe that it actually takes more away. There 
 are some unlockables in the game such as a sound room and some secret levels. There should have 
 been more secret levels however as that is what Sonic is known for and I could have done without 
 the sound room.
  
  Tilt -- 8/10
  I love Sonic Rush because it was the only good Sega game this year. After suffering through Shadow 
 the Hedgehog I was amazed at Sonic Team for not being bad. I also love Sega and grew up on Sonic 
 so this could factor into my tilt. I should also mention that I hate these more modern soap opera 
 Sonic stories which this game had and so that is why my tilt is an 8 instead of 9.
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: kittykatz5k
Rating: 7.1
Date: Mar 10, 2006 2:20 pm PT
Review:  Good:
  -Controls are nice
  -Trick system is a great idea
  -Nice graphics in both 3d and 2d
  -2 player mode
  -Sounds takes a nice JSRF approach
  
 
  Bad:
  -Bosses lack substance
  -Levels lack substance
  -Enemies lack anything
  -Really strait forward
  -No unlockables or anything really to keep you playing after beating
 
  -Only 2 characters
  -Nothing really memorable about any levels
  -New moves make sonic far to easy and all difficulty comes from difficulty, not challenge
  -2 
 player mode lacks any interaction, just 2 people plaything the same game
  
  End commnet:
  They add a lot of cool moves but fail make it feel like sonic in the end, level desine and lack 
 of enemies kills it. Basically you mostly just hold down forward until you reach the end with the 
 occasional stop, just feels like your more along for the ride then playing the game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Thug2Wasteland
Rating: 9.2
Date: Mar 9, 2006 4:43 pm PT
Review:  This Game Is One The DS Games For The Go with you .Sonic Has the same story line as any other sonic 
 game collect chaos emeralds and defeat the Evil Dr. Eggman. But the game has a twist a Charaer known 
 as Blaze the cat also has the same storyline but Storyline For Blaze You Collect The "Sol Emeralds". 
 What I like about the game is the use of the top and touch screens for the acion the twist. what 
 i didnt like the use of the 2 screens is that you use you cant see the real movements of sonic/blaze 
 movements to the top to touch screen and touch screen to the top screen. Sonic Rush also has a 
 new feature called the tantrom meter i call it addernline meter witch gives you speed boast if 
 you need it. Sonic Rush Is one Best Games On the Go with You and Your DS. I Also Like Games Combinations 
 With the 3d/2d levels that gives a unique twist also the game is a simple to pick up game play 
 for i got it quick less then a second. this game a pretty good game for the game so pick it up 
 for your sonic collection Today!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bustershot
Rating: 8.9
Date: Mar 9, 2006 8:04 am PT
Review:  This game really kicks it. At first you'll be playing the game just for the story, but the gameplay 
 and music really grows on you and brings the feel to play more and more and more. This game is 
 one of the Best, well it could have been if they put a character like knuckles instead of Blaze, 
 but laying with sonic has its own pleasures. This Game is a must buy, even if your not a Fan and 
 is one of the best games in the DS. 
  Team sonic did a great Job in the smooth Graphics of the Characters in 3d, the new addition of 
 the Sonic Boom Rush is more fun than people would normally think. The most impressive part is that, 
 even if you go at ustounding speeds, there is no interference in gameplay, no such thing as glitches. 
 Overall, i love this game and most people will too. Even if you complete the game, the time trials 
 and S rankings will keep players entertained. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: schox5
Rating: 9.1
Date: Mar 6, 2006 3:19 pm PT
Review:  Now this is the good old Sonic that i loved when I was younger. Unlike Sonic Heroes, which was 
 terrible, this lives up to the Sonic name. 
  
  Positives
  1. Amazing sense of speed
  2. Its Sonic!
  3. The new trick system
  4. Cool boss fights
  5. Just all around fun
  
 
  Negatives
  1. Too many cheap deaths, where you fall of a cliff.
  2. No difference between the 2 characters.
  3. A little on the short side.
  
  I was a little 
 skeptic while buying the game, since I had wasted my money on Sonic Heroes before, and hated it. 
 But this game was completely different. Any Sonic fan should definitely get this game.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Aviex
Rating: 7.5
Date: Mar 5, 2006 8:19 pm PT
Review:  Ok, so here's the main jist of this game. Its 3d characters in a 2d sidescroll enviroment. It's 
 been done before with games like megaman network transition, and the soon to arrive "new super 
 mario bros". However, the character models are extremely well done, making the 3d look like it 
 was 2d sprites. A feat in itself.
  
  The levels are well designed while the boss's are huge and well created. 
  
  To tell the truth, 
 the only real problems are the fact that the two playable characters are almost exactly the same 
 and the everpresent lag in single card mutliplayer races.
  
  To conclude, a great game with only a few flaws. Also a bit too short for my liking. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: chazasul
Rating: 7.8
Date: Mar 4, 2006 5:31 pm PT
Review:  When I got this game as a gift, I really wasnt expecting anything particularly special but as the 
 sonic advance games for the GBA were pretty entertaining I gave it a go. It was far far far away 
 from anything that I imagined it to be like, Which is a very good thing. 
  
  Firstly, The difficulty is just insane, Considering the simplicity of the controls it shouldnt 
 be hard to navigate from one side of the level to the other, Right? Nope! From as early as the 
 4th level you'll find yourslef having to remember every Jump and every switch thats coming up from 
 the previous times you tried to do it but then fell to your doom. 
  
  The mad speeds give this game a quality thats rarely seen in any game, And although you may have 
 to continuously retry a level over and over until you feel the need to shred the game cartridge 
 into many pieces, You'll always come back for another attempt.
  
  Multiplayer is also suprisingly good, Its just the levels in single player but now your racing 
 a friend. Once again, Simple but fun!
  
  So if you have some loose pocket change and you fancy a simple game that doesnt require too much 
 thinking but is still very enjoyable, Sonic rush is your best bet.
  
  
  + Sonic speed action! aw yeah!
  + Both original 
 and classic
  
  
  - Can be too difficult, And for the wrong reasons.
  - Gets repetitive quicker than it should 
 do
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: iamsouledge
Rating: 8.5
Date: Mar 3, 2006 6:13 pm PT
Review:  It's become painfully obvious to me that Sonic is a dish best-served in 2 dimensions. Disappointment 
 after crushing disappointment has followed the franchise whenever it tried to make the 3D jump, 
 especially the recent Shadow the Hedgehog. That game just flat-out sucks. But, I digress. This 
 is the first Sonic game since Sonic Advance 3 that gets everything right, and manages to escape 
 being hurt by it's minor flaws.
  
  Let's talk graphics for a moment. Simply put, they're top-notch for a sidescroller. The character 
 sprites have been replaced with polygonal characters that, if you get up close, are cel-shaded. 
 As a result, Sonic and companion Blaze the cat animate smoothly and easily. All of the backgrounds 
 are stunning, and you may find yourself falling off a cliff or two while admiring the scenery. 
 Unfortunately, this is the main problem with the graphics: Most of the time, you'll be moving too 
 fast to notice. But when you do, you will undoubtably be impressed.
  
  On to the sound. This game's soundtrack is a bit of an oddity: It's everything a Sonic game shouldn't 
 sound like, yet it fits perfectly at the same time. The looping pop/techno music may not suit the 
 stages particularly well, but they accompany the game's pace well enough that it makes no difference. 
 The effects are par for the course, and rightfully so; would it still feel like a Sonic game without 
 the whirring sound of a boost pad, or the boingy sound of a trampoline? I didn't think so.
  
  Finally, the most important part: The gameplay. Finally, a Sonic game that retains that crazy 
 feel of the Genesis classics, and even improves upon them. While you'll be going crazy fast without 
 any added help, this game adds a little thing called boost. You will quite literally be blasting 
 through the levels with this, and the feeling is truly some of the most fun I've had with a sidescroller 
 in years. You earn boost by doing easily-performable tricks in the air and on rails, and since 
 there is no shortage of either, you'll be zooming your way to the finish line in no time.
  
  As stated before, Sonic has a new partner in this game, by the name of Blaze the Cat. This 
 new character has some distinctly fire-themed moves and boasts a separate storyline. Although, 
 maybe "boasts" is the wrong word, because the developers just re-arranged the order of the stages. 
 Also, her moves are so similar to Sonic's that it really doesn't matter who you choose. Nonetheless, 
 players will undoubtebly pick a favorite and stick with him or her.
  
  If this game proves anything, it's that an extra dimension does not a better game make. Sonic has 
 always been great because of the amazing, visceral sense of speed that no racing game can match, 
 and this game has taken it to the next level. Sonic Rush is an absolute must-buy, and will undoubtebly 
 please those who have the pleasure of inserting it into their DS. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ohnonotme23
Rating: 8.6
Date: Mar 3, 2006 5:04 pm PT
Review:  this is the best game ever! 
  
  
  
  a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a 
  a a a a 
 a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a 
 a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a 
 a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a 
 a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a 
 a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a 
 a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a 
 a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a 
 a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a 
 a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a 
 a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a 
 a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a 
::::::

::::::
UserName: T_Magdi
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 1, 2006 9:52 am PT
Review:  "Look here. Sonic Rush rocks. You can jump and zoom as fast as you can. The screen is two screens 
 apart, so you have a console-wide Sonic game. What can you do without it? Well, practise your mugs."
 
  The truth about Sonic is that he is fast and original. Almost hard to draw, a bit of a show off, 
 but overall that, he looks good with a splash of blue paint. his friends are, not in any order, 
 Knuckles, Amy, Tails, Blaze... wait a second... when I said 'Blaze', she is in this game and all 
 new. Yes, she is a cat. A CAT! Well, hedgehogs and cats are okay, considering Big, the mussle 'man'.
 
  
  I'm a bit peckish when I'm half way beetween Sonic Rush. I want to eat pancakes. And I hate pancakes. 
 With sugar on the top, of course, that makes it not sucked in with the delisous taste. Anyway, 
 I carry on playing the brilliant Sonic Rush. You can run in water, oh, and it's a bit long, wit 
 amazing sound effects.
  In total, Sonic Rush is a fantastic game with lots of gameplay and aboslutely fun. Yeah, I tottaly 
 reccomend this.
  
  It is BETTER than: Sonic Advance (GBA)
  It is WORSE than: Sonic Pocket Adventure (NGPC)
  
  Gameplay:
  
  + awsome fun to be had 
 here.
  - feels empty when peckish.
  
  Graphics:
  
  + extreme classic Sonic retro style.
  - it hasn't got the best graphics on a DS.
  
  Sound:
 
  
  + fun speedy sounds, the jumps are perfect.
  - nothing wrong here.
  
  Lifespan:
  Quite long, but speedy. Good moves will make you wow, though.
  You'll play this for - Minutes 
 10/10, Hours 8/10, Days 8/10, Weeks 8/10, Months 7/10.
  
  Learning Curve is a solid 1-2 hours of play before you get into it. But still a 'pick up and play' 
 game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BIGGDOGG91
Rating: 7
Date: Feb 27, 2006 12:16 pm PT
Review:  i like the new ideas for the ds with sonic but i think they need to fix it up more and make it 
 stand out i still like the 2d stuff but it still frustrates me alot........... anyway i am a lil 
 dissapointed with this game i thought it would get an 8.5 from me but i guess i was wrong the only 
 thing good about this game is the sense of speed and it's 3d boss battles but it aint enough to 
 save it from doom still if u lookin for a ds game that is ok u can get sonic rush 
::::::

::::::
UserName: EliteDForce
Rating: 8.4
Date: Feb 26, 2006 12:44 pm PT
Review:  This game is the best sonic game to be released in quite some time. Staying true to its platforming 
 roots and bringing a new sense of speed and excitement to the game only help it to thrive. Though 
 a veteran player will breeze through relatively easy, they will still find a lot of enjoyment to 
 be found in here. 
  
  The same cliche storyline, patched up with two characters (though they are essentially the same) . 
 A few minor tweaks but the same core gameplay mechanics. With a unique blend between 2D and 3D 
 that makes this a visually stunning game that resurrects all the old joys in sonic games. 
  
  Some very frustrating enemy placement as well as over coordinated levels. Where one could simply 
 blaze through the entire thing without really enjoying the levels. Witch are beautiful environments 
 with a diversity ranging from many alluring places.
  
  Gameplay - 9
  Keeping the old formula and tweeking it to perfection. Does it stand the test of time? Yes, and 
 well.
  
  Graphics - 9
  Far from a technical leap from the Genesis days, but they add a lot of twists and turns as well 
 as some great environments.
  
  Sound - 8
  Same memorable sound effects with some techno based songs. 
  
  Overall - 8.5
  Overall it 
 provides a glimpse of the amazing series sonic once was, and takes you through a unfortunately 
 to easy game that could of been a lot more. Dont get me wrong, it maintains more than any sonic 
 game has done in this generation and its an easy recommendation. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: datbush
Rating: 6.5
Date: Feb 24, 2006 4:32 pm PT
Review:  On the possitive side the graphics are great for a handheld game. Some of the 3d effects look great 
 the Bg's are nice and the sonic looks great. The sound effects are what you would expect. fun speacial 
 stages. Easy controlls.
  
  Now for the ranting. While the music itself is good They decided to place vocals in. its not always 
 noticable but when it is its just plain anoying and dosn't fit the game. I didnt pay 30 bucks to 
 listen to 4 year olds singing and doing a bad job. 
  
  The story is simple standard and lame but most people like it that way. also like other sonic games 
 its too short. 
  
  Now for the real problem. They decited to use elements from the newer games. a lot of the enemies 
 are from sonic heroes icluding some that are multi-hit. also they introduces some new things that 
 just dont work. The dashing system is rather lame and tedious when its forced. The bungies and 
 rocket pads gotta go. They made this game hard not in a fun challanging way but in a throw your 
 ds down and yell bs kindof way. In one level a single mistake at high speed kills you and if you 
 fall to a previos area you die anyway. way to many pit falls. Lastly the voices are awfull, they 
 need to fire the guy that does tails and send the rest to school.
  
  Its not a bad game but it could have been alot better. (its better than some of the newer sonic 
 games.) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: falconclan
Rating: 8.4
Date: Feb 22, 2006 7:22 pm PT
Review:  Sonic Rush is an all new sonic game. Rush isn't just a sonic game anymore. Now its faster, bolder, 
 and for some, its arguably better. In my opinion, its far from the best sonic has to give. Yes 
 it's faster, and yes it's fun, but this one may be even too fast O_O! You can press X (or was it 
 y?) to speed up even faster then he usually runs. Ive always liked the speed of sonic games, and 
 now the speed seems fine, but it will take you a while just to get used to the "new" style of gameplay. 
 
  
  The gameplay is just like the other sonic games. Run fast, roll, and fight big bad eggman and an 
 all "new" nemesis eggman nega. By far my favorite part of the gameplay are the 3D boss battles. 
 You can't actually call them true 3D because you can only run in one direction, jumping and hitting 
 the boss at the time you need to. None of them are particularly hard, but they can at times be 
 very frustrating. They run on the usual Zone based level maps, but this time there is actually 
 a map, you can go back and replay the acts and bosses you have already beaten over and over again. 
 
  
  The graphics aren't particularly impressive, but they aren't in any way harmful to the game. Sega 
 went with the safe 2D style sonic, but now there are 3D characters. Its pretty interesting, but 
 the level designs are good too. They aren't amazing (again) , but they are very pretty, and colorful. 
 The boss battles look beautiful though. The bosses are fully textured and 3D to the eye. Although 
 its a 2D style arena. 
  
  The sound is nothing wonderful. Standard jumping noise, standard voices and standard music. Really 
 if your looking for a game with good sound. This isn't for you.
  
  Overall its a new sonic experience, for some of the veterans like me it will feel a bit strange, 
 but after a while you will get used to it. I am still very tempted to press the forward button 
 when im upside down on a ramp, but i am now used to it and the controls are nothing to fret about. 
 I recommend this game to anyone who likes platformers and has a ds. When you start playing please 
 don't give up on it if you think its a bit weird or if your into another game more. Because i know 
 that if you keep playing in the end you will like it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mintydog
Rating: 6.2
Date: Feb 15, 2006 8:56 am PT
Review:  A rather typical frustrating 2d plat former game and not as good as the original sonic. 
  
  I'ts got annoying traits in that platform games should avoid, such as the annoying water level 
 where it warns you once you have 5 seconds left to live before you drown, very annoying, and the 
 even more annoying thing on the levels which si to fall off the world and just die, so very frustrating.
 
  Make games harder PROPERLY, not by giving us countless stupid ways to die.
  
  Another annoying thing is the music, I don't know what they are trying to pull with this rubbish, 
 but it just sounds terribly and is not fitting for this game, are they trying too hard to be cool 
 or something? Abysmal music! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Prince_DarkDrop
Rating: 9.7
Date: Feb 13, 2006 4:29 am PT
Review:  I'm glad that someone at sega remember that sonic is about speed
  alot of past sonic games had you run in to an obstacle right as you were just 
  picking up speed 
 which was a big turn off .
  
  This game get's it right having you move at top speed most of the time without making the levels 
 to short and the boss battle are incredible and the music in the game just gets you pumped if your 
 a sonic fan you'll be creaming your jeans if you pick this game up and if your new to sonic games 
 this will have you buying the old ones
  if sega keeps making games like this one maybe they'll make a come back
  the only down fall to 
 this game is it's a little short but i think it has alot of replay value. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: eppy105
Rating: 9.8
Date: Feb 12, 2006 3:19 pm PT
Review:  Sonic has always been my favorite video game series, and the goodness continues in this installment. 
 Not only is this one of the best sonics, but a new way to look at it. It innovative use of the 
 dual screens and touch screens, it really does make use of the DS's power. The 3d boss battles 
 are great, and the levels are all redesigned. There are parts in the game were it does become 3d, 
 like when you go onto different gimmicks, but besides that, its usual sonic. Also, getting chaos 
 emeralds is a bit different, because you will use the touch screen to collect coins. The game is 
 a bit short, but those 10 hours that of gameplay is exceptional. They could have added a 3d choa 
 garden, that would have been really cool. But, all in all, it's very hard not to recommend this 
 game. Its a bunch of fun to play the 2d levels, and a blast to play the 3d boss battles. The breakneck 
 speed, the insane loops, its all here. Go get this one now! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: UltimateDoom400
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 11, 2006 2:34 pm PT
Review:  Im sure you remember sonic in the 2D period : It was great! Then Sonic Adventure And Sonic adventure 
 2 came out: THE HIT OF SONICS CAREER!
  After words, it went down hill. After being a mior in the one of the least like sonic game to date, 
 he was about to get his ass kicked by that **** MArio. He turned it around. He combined the awesome 
 3d bosses form SA&SA2 with the 2D levels from the glory days to make sonic rush! Although not as 
 good as SA and SA2, It is almost as good. The levels rock, the plot is ok, and the bosses make 
 the grade!!!! GET IT!!!!! Mario will wet his pants in fear of the return of our blue friend! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Bubble_Man
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 9, 2006 2:40 pm PT
Review:  Sonic blazes onto the Nintendo DS with his newest title, Sonic Rush. After the success of Sonics 
 Game Boy Advance titles, Sega bringing one to the DS was almost a given. Fortunately, Sonic Rush 
 retains the elements that made the GBA games so popular -- and even surpasses them.
  
  In many ways, the game-play remains the same as it was in past games. Sonic runs, spins, and jumps 
 his way through a variety of differently-themed levels. However, there is now even more emphasis 
 placed on the speed aspect; Sonic now bursts through the levels faster than ever. In fact, he is 
 already running when a stage first begins.
  
  While much of the game-play retains the elements of past games, Sonic does have a few new moves 
 in his arsenal . The most notable is the speed dash, which gives Sonic a huge speed boost and surrounds 
 him with what appears to be a blue flame. Using the move at the right time allows players to clear 
 larger gaps and damage any enemies that happen to be in the way. While in the air, pressing buttons 
 will make sonic perform aerial tricks, which helps to recharge his dash ability.
  
  Another new feature worth mentioning is that the levels use both screens. When Sonic hits a ramp 
 or loop, he can run from the lower screen up onto the upper one. Likewise, he will land in the 
 lower one if he falls off the upper one. This also adds a strategic element to the game. For example, 
 while in the upper screen, the player can check the lower screen to see if there is a deadly pit 
 below. While in the lower screen, players can look at the upper one to know about approaching aerial 
 enemies.
  
  The bonus game in Sonic Rush pays tribute to Sonic the Hedgehog 2, which was for the Sega genesis. 
 Anyone who played it will instantly recognize the half pipe level that requires Sonic to run straight 
 forward and collect a set amount of rings. Unfortunately, Sonic Rush now requires players to use 
 the touch screen to navigate Sonic to the rings and away from obstacles. The mini-game would have 
 been more fun without having to use the stylus at all; its clear to see that Sega just tacked-on 
 a use for the touch screen.
  
  The graphics are in 2D, but theyre some of slickest pixels yet seen on the DS. Sonic animates 
 very well and his movements have a fluid-like quality to them. They truly take advantage of the 
 DS graphical power; the Game Boy Advance was never capable of producing such sharp visuals. 
 
  
  Whenever Sonic encounters Dr. Robotnic, the boss battles are done in 3D. Like the side-scrolling 
 scenes, the 3D boss battles are very well animated. The graphics remain smooth and there isnt 
 the slightest hint of any slowdown. Each boss battle is unique and requires a different strategy 
 to win. Learning to dodge each bosses attacks and exploit their weaknesses gives the game a more 
 rewarding feel.
  
  The music in Sonic Rush is just as fast-paced as the game itself. Each levels music has distorted 
 voice clips and a very peppy feel. The music effectively keeps the player awake and gives each 
 level a more exciting feel. Sega did an excellent job of matching each level with a piece of music; 
 they blend together in such a way that whoever is playing will become more immersed in Sonics 
 little world.
  
  Sonic Rush takes the best elements of old-school Sonic games and pumps them up with a large graphical 
 boost and few new moves. Veteran gamers will be pleased to see how the game remains true to the 
 original and newcomers will have an excellent first experience with the series. Taking everything 
 into consideration, it could be argued that Sonic Rush is the best 2D Sonic game ever made.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: yoshiowns
Rating: 8.8
Date: Feb 4, 2006 1:17 pm PT
Review:  Sonic Rush is the best Sonic game I've played in a while. I'd say that it is better than all of 
 the Sonic Advanced series, and probably better than Sonic Heroes with it's cheesy lines, bad team 
 style playing, and the method of getting the emeralds.
  The game has a good play. It has high-speed parts, which add to the exitement, and low speed parts, 
 which are just fun anyway. The frame rate is good, considering how fast you can go, and the 3-D 
 character models and boss fights are very good. The emerald stages are better than the Sonic Heroes 
 stages because you actually stand a chance of getting the emerald the first time you play that 
 stage, instead of having to do it over and over again, and then just giving up and using an Action 
 Replay. (Plus you don't have to race it.)
  * Caution. Spoilers Ahead* 
  The final boss battle was a little tough for me to figure out how to hit the boss. ( Mainly because 
 I didn't know that Blaze had a fire ball thing.) The final boss was back to the original Sonic 
 games because it involves flying to get to the boss, with giant rock in the way, which was a very 
 good idea. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: donaldo1989
Rating: 8.7
Date: Apr 17, 2006 8:32 am PT
Review:  Sonic Rush plays like most 2D Sonic Games where you have to get to the end of a level by avoiding 
 monsters and speeding through the loop the loops. But Sonic Rush takes this to a whole new level.
 
  
  Sonic Rush looks beautiful on the DS and gives a whole new meaning to the word Sonic. Using the 
 two screens works better than you would first imagine because as you run from one screen to the 
 next the flow is kept so it actually feels natural. Unlike past sonic games, there is a boost meter 
 which can be used up with a boost button which allows you to run at amazing speeds and attack enemies. 
 The boost bar is easily filled up with tricks performed with the A and B button and also by destroying 
 enemies. This really helps because unlike the past 2D sonic games it allows the pace to be kept 
 high.
  Each level is unique and entertaining and you will keep on coming back to those levels.
  
  
 Another addition is the new character Blaze which has her own story. It adds replay value but unfortunately 
 the levels are exactly the same and the move set is practically the same which is a shame as it 
 would have added a lot of value to the game.
  
  The bosses are amazing in Sonic Rush as each boss is unique and requires you to learn their patterns, 
 so defeating a boss really does give satisfaction.
  
  What about the special stages and the DS touch screen? I have played many sonic games and the special 
 stages have always been tedious but in Sonic rush the special stages involving collecting rings 
 using the touch screen to move and perform tricks which works extremely well. 
  
  Multiplayer is good as it only needs one game card and allows 2 players to race each other.
  
 
  Unfortunately the game is very short which kills its value, but you will play this game again when 
 you have finished it and mastering the game by being able to perform tricks and follow the speed 
 of the game makes this game a must for your DS. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mr_Squishie
Rating: 7.9
Date: Jan 27, 2006 7:50 pm PT
Review:  This game is very entertaining. It's fun and easy to pick up. Levels just whoosh by, as you spiral 
 and somersault though the game. The only problem is that it a bit too short.
  
  But the game's length (or lack of it) dosen't matter too much, as replaying levels is always fun, 
 and won't get old quickly. You can play as two characters, but there is little difference between 
 the two.
  
  Sonic rush, is ideal for when you are on the move. So if you feel embarrased talking to your Nintendog 
 on the bus, then this is a worthy alternative.
  
  If you like sonic games, or fun games that you can play anywhere, then this game fits the plate. 
 But if you prefer a long quest that you can sit down in a cosy seat at home and play, then there 
 are better games out there. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: L-A
Rating: 8
Date: Jan 25, 2006 9:43 pm PT
Review:  The brilliance of Sonic Rush lies in the fact that its a perfect mix old-school, and neo gaming. 
 everything that makes games like sonic cd great is in this game (except that awsome opening theme, 
 you know the one i mean) , but it also has slick 3d graphics, rediculously fast turbo boosting, 
 and even a new charcter. To be honest, there really isnt an awful lot to say about this game other 
 than its damn fast, and damn addictive. However, As per usual with this style of game, if you dont 
 pace yourself, youll beat it too quickly, and there isnt a whole lot to do after that. in addition 
 to its lack of epic longevity, its story line is sub-par, but that's to be expected. Put simply, 
 its fun, its easy to pick up and play, and its old school. Great for fans of the old sonic. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: allpowerful_det
Rating: 9.2
Date: Jan 22, 2006 1:58 pm PT
Review:  All in all, Sonic Rush was a trip backwards in time for me. And at the same time, a look at the 
 present. (I know. Bad choice of words) It had the awesome 2D graphics during the 14 different levels, 
 and the 3D boss battles. Plus, it had the choice of playing through as Sonic, or the new character 
 created for this game, Blaze the Cat. Both awesome. Not only this, but it has a multi player mode 
 where you race and battle it out at the same time against one other person on only one DS cartridge 
 or two carts. All in all, this is an absolutely breathtaking game, and I will recommend it for 
 both the old school gamer and the new school gamer. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dvader654
Rating: 8.9
Date: Jan 20, 2006 6:03 pm PT
Review:  Sonic Rush is the latest entry into the famous Sonic the Hedgehog series of games. Lately Sonic 
 fans, meaning myself, have been upset at the 3D versions of the blue Hedgehog. Even the recent 
 2D Sonic games, the Sonic Advance series, has failed to capture the spirit of classic Genesis titles. 
 Well Sonic fans rejoice, we finally have a Sonic game that feels like the games we grew up with.
 
  
  Sonic Rush will take a while to get used to, its not as simple as running across one screen and 
 pressing one button to jump. Rush combines the best elements of Sonic Adventure 2, the trick and 
 scoring system, with the gameplay and level design of the Genesis games. Along with the obligatory 
 jump button the game has a dash button which you press to make Sonic go even faster. You can dash 
 as long as you keep your dash meter filled, to do that you must perform tricks, which can be done 
 by simply pressing the two jump buttons when you jump off a spring or by performing grind tricks. 
 Not only does the dash make you move fast but it destroys any enemies in your path and it will 
 be needed in some sections to get through the levels. 
  
  Along with the new moves the next biggest change are the two screens. You will be switching between 
 screens many times, its hard to keep track at first, but don't worry you'll get used to it. The 
 two screens make it much easier to keep track of the multiple routes one can take when tackling 
 a level. These levels are massive, some are as big as Sonic 3's huge stages, plus they all have 
 multiple routes. Finding the fastest way to the finish line turns out to be a lot of fun and a 
 great test of skill. The best part of these levels is that you don't just hold down right and fly 
 through the stage, you must always be aware cause these levels will throw you off a cliff if you 
 don't pay attention. There are many momentum traps, for example you will be cruising down a ramp 
 at full speed only to be lead to the edge of a death fall, but if you are aware you will notice 
 the switch you have to hit overhead to activate the bridge to continue across. You will need to 
 have keen reflexes to get through this game, believe me its one of the hardest Sonic games ever 
 made.
  
  The levels are broken down into two acts and then a boss battle. These boss battles are not like 
 any of the bosses of old, nope these are intense 3D battles. Usually a boss will consist of Sonic 
 running on a 2D line with the boss attacking by moving around the stage in 3D. They are all pattern 
 based bosses but never does it get tiresome, the bosses constantly add new moves to their arsenal 
 as they get hurt. Did I mention some are down right hard, prepare to play some of these bosses 
 over and over before defeating them, at least you will feel rewarded after you get through it. 
 Lets just say you will have some sweaty palms after fighting some of these guys.
  
  There are also special stages were you collect the Chaos Emeralds. Like Sonic 2 it takes place 
 in a half-pipe but this time you control sonic with the stylus. Again its all in the reflexes, 
 you will have to glide Sonic from one side of the pipe to the other in a split second in some stages. 
 Like Sonic 2 you need to collect a certain amount of rings before a check point. Well getting there 
 is not easy cause there are many spiked balls lying around ready to knock your rings out. This 
 version adds some cool new gameplay elements to the half pipe like a spring that sends you in the 
 air where a set of numbers appear on screen and you have to press them in numeric order in a small 
 amount of time to get more rings. The stages do their job in giving you a great change of pace 
 from the normal Sonic routine. 
  
  The game is rather short, its on par with the old Sonic games but that means its over in a few 
 hours. There are two characters to choose from, Sonic and Blaze but not much difference between 
 them. Sonic is the faster of the two but Blaze can jump higher, plus their level order is a bit 
 different, thats about it. They do have intersecting story lines but the story in this game get 
 very cheesy, its like a bad Disney movie teaching children about friendship and trust. You would 
 think that by now Sega would make a Sonic game that has more than 14 stages, why must Sonic games 
 be so short. Why is it that Mario games have nearly 100 stages, why can't a Sonic game be that 
 large? 
  
  So what is there to do after you beat the game... well plenty. You can get all the Chaos Emeralds 
 and see the true ending of the game, plus fight a massive final battle, which of course involves 
 Super Sonic. The game also gives you a rank at the end of each level, S-rank being the best. To 
 achieve the S-rank you need to enter a level of Sonic playing that is unmatched, you need to be 
 in the zone so to speak. That is where the beauty of this game comes through, as you endlessly 
 try to figure out the best paths in a level, the best way to score points, you start appreciating 
 the skill needed to master this game. It will bring back all the memories of games of old, back 
 when games challenged your reflexes. If you don't want to go for the best rank and just want to 
 see how fast you can finish a stage you can play Time Attack mode, which comes complete with a 
 ghost Sonic that lets you race against your previous run. This too can become instantly addictive 
 cause you can always do just a split second faster. Also included is a two player mode that is 
 nearly identical to the Sonic 3 multiplayer mode, with new levels of course.
  
  The game is just beautiful to look at it, it has this subtle cell shaded look to it. Great colors, 
 great semi-3D character models, it is a game you will enjoy looking at. The sound on the other 
 hand is not so good. Sonic has always had excellent music but this games soundtrack is horrible. 
 The music has that bad Sega rock vibe going on, you know like Daytona or even some of the music 
 in Sonic Adventure 2. We don't need some amateurish singing in a Sonic game, just create some memorable 
 melodies like Sonic games of old.
  
  When I look at this game, I see it through a Sonic fan's eyes. I have no clue how a non-Sonic fan 
 will react to this game. Will he think its too old fashioned? Will he think its way to short? I 
 don't know, but that is not why I'm here. I want to tell the Sonic fans, the ones that grew up 
 with a Genesis, the ones that loved the best Sonic game of all time Sonic the Hedgehog 2, that 
 there is a new Sonic game that lives up to those games from the past. This is the first time I 
 felt I was truly playing a brand new Genesis Sonic game. In fact I will go as far as saying that 
 this is the closest a Sonic game has come to recreating the excellent Sonic 2.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: CBJude
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jan 20, 2006 5:59 pm PT
Review:  now what is with these "col emeralds" what happened to the being basic with your characters too... like 
 i think i only liked sonic tails knuckles amy shadow eggman rouge... and thats about it but it's 
 so confusing with the comic characters then the actual games. over all the gameplay is pretty good 
 the 3D graphics arn't really the best thing but it works. i like how when on some boss' you have 
 to do that speed pressing a then b thing so that was pretty kool to me. i like how on the special 
 stage is that you have too use the touch screen the whole time. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: YearoftheSnake5
Rating: 8.1
Date: Feb 10, 2006 4:08 pm PT
Review:  Sonic Rush for the DS brings the little blue hedgehog back from the 3D universe into a more classic 
 style game. The graphics are a unique mix of 2D and 3D. Sonic and the new character, Blaze, are 
 in 3D, while the majority of the envirnment and enemies are 2D. Since there isn't much of a focus 
 on speed during boss battles to begin with, boss battles take place in one full 3D level. All of 
 the animations look great, and the game runs smoothly. Some things in the boss battles look pixilated, 
 but it's not much of an issue.
  
  In this game, Sonic must once again set off to defeat his nemesis, Dr. Robotnic (Eggman) ; however, 
 he will not be doing this alone. A new character, Blaze the cat, joins the fight. Somehow, Dr. 
 Eggman has opened up a rift between demensions, and it's up to Sonic and Blaze to set things right.
 
  
  Gameplay remains true to the classic Sonic formula, but adds a few things. You'll run and jump 
 through various stages thoughout the game. There is the addition of a new Rush attack, which allows 
 to pick up speed, and kill enemies as you run over them. Sonic and Blaze will jump from screen 
 to screen (literally) , which can be a bit confusing at first. Sonic Rush also brings back the classic 
 Chaos Emerald half pipe run from Sonic 2. You'll use the touch screen in this area to guide Sonic 
 along the half pipe, gather rings, and aviod bombs.
  
  Sound isn't at all what it could have been. The majority of the sound effects have a static or 
 fuzzy sound to them. The in game music is well done, and helps to make up for the lousy sound effects.
 
  
  It won't take an experienced Sonic gamer much longer than a day or two to get though Sonic Rush. 
 Once you've beaten this game, there isn't anything to really go back to.
  
  Overall, Sonic Rush stays true to the classic gameplay, yet adds new graphic improvements and moves. 
 It's by far the best Sonic game in years, but the experience is over far too quickly. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Malikrules
Rating: 8.8
Date: Jan 18, 2006 1:09 pm PT
Review:  Sonic Rush is a new innoactive game that mixes up the classic 2D side- scrollling by mixing and 
 enchancing it with new gameplay. Basically, the storyline is too light to describe, though I'll 
 do my best: Sonic defeats Egggman, and a new character shows up. She takes the Emerald that just 
 appeared after Eggman's defeat, then rushes off. "What the -- " Sonic says before rushing off.
  
  Gameplay- The new DS capability screen makes gameplay fusrating at times, as I found it annoying 
 looking back and forth, but the new feature of attacks makes gameplay more straightfoward to the 
 one that we know today. (Superb.)
  
  Graphics- Brillant, vivd graphics are as good as the Gamecube, and I found myself deeply impressed. (Superb.)
 
  
  Sound- Anyone can play this game, and, no matter how terrible they think it is, can say that the 
 music rocks! (Perfect.)
  
  Value- You can always collect the Chaos emeralds, and bonus material. (New level, and cahnce to 
 us Super Sonic!) 
  
  Tilt- I recently beat Sonic Rush, and one awful thing is the fact that the ending wasn't satisfying 
 at all. Sonic fans my be deeply disappiointed due to the lackage of story.
  
  It all adds up to...- Sonic Rush is an innovative game that pits you into a new system. It should 
 not be missed...
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: crazychris90
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jan 17, 2006 2:46 am PT
Review:  We have seen a lot from sonic lately with sonic advance 1,2 and 3 plus the two collections and 
 sonic heroes. This one seems to be my favourite at the moment and I can't stop playing it. If you 
 liked the advance series you will think this is very similar but in fact better.
  
  This game contains solid gameplay which feels like sonic advance 2 and 3 ( I didn't say the first 
 sonic advance because that isn't as crazy the others ) . There are seven zones with each character 
 but they are exactly the same but in different orders eg. sonic will start off in leaf storm zone 
 when blaze starts off in night carnival zone. The zones are reasonably long and may take you a 
 few goes to try and complete them. There is also a wide range of bosses to complete which are highly 
 addictive but not too hard. The dual screen feature is brilliant but sometimes you may lose sonic's 
 location which can get frustrating. The game may feel short but there is a great replay value.
 
  
  The visuals are amazing and especially on the bosses ( i say it looks like gamecube graphics ) . 
 Most of each zone is 2D, but it is highly detailed plus you might find some gimmicks which turns 
 2D into 3D ( for only a second though ) . The bosses are slightly cel-shaded to make the games visuals 
 much more professional.
  
  The music isn't that bad and there is some cool songs and some dodgy sounding songs. Most zones 
 have a little vocals in them which pump up the game a little bit. The sfx are not much different 
 to the previous advance games which is not too bad but they should of improved.
  
  This game is for both pure and beginner sonic fans which brings addictive gameplay and stunning 
 graphics into there mind. You may start dancing to the music as well so becareful not to dance 
 in the middle of a town. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Accoplyse
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jan 16, 2006 11:52 pm PT
Review:  THIS GAME IS GREAT EVEN WHEN SONIC TURNS INTO A DASH BALL WHAT GOES FAST! all the bosses are 3D 
 when you fight them that is so cool its a little challenging but this game is good if you are a 
 sonic fan you better not miss out on this game because if your a sonic fan you better buy this 
 now!!! but now sonic gems is also a great game and sonic mega collection i got far in the game 
 i beat sonic1,2, and 3 they were pretty hard these three games im talking about right now if you 
 dont have them you better buy them if your a sonic  
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Goten_king
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jan 16, 2006 6:42 pm PT
Review:  Mixes old and new, fun and addictive, and fast and cool. This is a great game all round that anyone 
 can enjoy.
  
  First of all, if you dont know sonic, you aren't a gamer. Second, well.. there is no second...
 
  
  This is an awesome sidescroller that really takes advantage of the DS. This, no matter how hard 
 you try, can not be on any other system. No matter what. So if you even have the slightest interest 
 in this game, get it because it is not going to come out on anything else ever probably. Did u 
 like Sonic Advance? if so, then you will LOVE this. Did u like Sonic on the Genesis? If so, this 
 game will be your new god. This game mixes a lot of all the games we've grown to love with sonic, 
 and not those crappy 3D games (not including Sonic Adventure for the DC)
  
  Gameplay: Great. There isnt much to sonic. You run.... really fast.... but there is truly a lot 
 more in these games. With the added boost system and improved trick system, it really adds a lot 
 of fun to the game. It also alleviates the constant speed stopping enemys that are imppossible 
 to avoid. Even when you beat this game, you will always come back for more beacuse of the infinate 
 routes and rating system that you NEED to be the best at. It also adds a nice little story as well
 
  
  Graphics: the levels are what you have come to expect, cool, intricut, pretty, and cool. For the 
 first 2d games, sonic is actually 3D, hes a bunch of polygons (woohoo) his world however is still 
 the classic 2d which is nice. The boss battles hoever, take on the 3D sidescroller. This works 
 wonderfully and add a lot to the game. 
  
  Sound: Amazing, what can i say, i love it! the beats a fun and fast, and they actually make me 
 want to play it more. I get addicted to a song so ill play that level over and over, and in teh 
 proccess end up getting a higher score or an emrald. Great choice in music IMO.
  
  Value: Its a great pick up and play
  
  Tilt: fantastic game!
  
  If u like sonic, get this 
 game, if not, learn about sonic, then get this game
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Shikaka
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 16, 2006 3:43 pm PT
Review:  Sonic Rush brings a new style of 3d side scrolling to the nintendo ds. It keeps the same feel as 
 the great ones, particuilarly Sonic and Knuckles back on the Genesis. Sonic Rush utilizes the DS' 
 3d engine and brings together some impressive display on gameplay and full 3d cutscenes. The storyline: 
 perfect. The Game also introduces Blaze the Cat, a new character exclusive to the DS. Much to unlock 
 and much to do, such as getting all of the emeralds and completing all three stories. Sonic Rush 
 makes its landmark as the most innovative and impressive Sonic game hit shelves in quite a while. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: plonker19
Rating: 8.2
Date: Jan 16, 2006 2:53 pm PT
Review:  i only played the game for a brief moment on a friends as soon as i started it up got through the 
 menus and i was back to old sonic it was nice to see a 2d sonic after the 3d ones that have been 
 on the bigger systems i enjoyed it a WILL get it my self, the colours where vibrant and where emulated 
 well on the ds's hardware, the frame rate kept up with the fast paced action that sonic has been 
 known for, the music and sound where as you'd expect from a sonic game all in all a good sonic 
 debut for the ds. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SegaBeat
Rating: 8
Date: Jun 12, 2006 6:13 am PT
Review:  Gameplay:
  
  Sonic finally returns to what he is best at, running through side-scrolling levels at a very fast 
 speed. While the Sonic Advance series for the GBA tried to match the classics, but Sonic Rush takes 
 the gameplay a step up and makes this the best we've ever seen recently. There are two playable 
 characters, Sonic and Blaze. Sonic has his typical fast jumping skills and can run at speed bursts. 
 Blaze, a new character in the Sonic universe, has fire-powers and can hover in the air a little. 
 Ether character you play, you are treated with 7 zones, each containing 2 action stages and one 
 boss. After beating each zone, you are normally treated with cutscenes to view the game's storyline. 
 
  
  Unlike the Sonic Advance series, Sonic Rush takes the gameplay to a whole new level. You are now 
 given a gauge where you fill it up whenever you attack enemies or do tricks while grinding on rails. 
 You can press and hold ether the X or Y buttons to have Sonic or Blaze to go at a very fast speed. 
 This technique not only helps you go through the stage faster, but wipes out robots in your path. 
 Eventually, however, your gauge will run out and you will have to fill it up again by attacking 
 more robots and such. Another fun feature in the gameplay is the trick system. While grinding on 
 rails, you can rapidly press the R button to do multiple tricks for score points. When you're blasting 
 through the air, you can also do air tricks as well, such as flips and poses. All these tricks 
 will also fill up your gauge meter as well. There are many surprising game elements in Sonic Rush's 
 stages that I won't reveal them here. But, if you don't get the picture yet, playing Sonic Rush's 
 stages is a blast. The boss battles are also pretty cool too. Though some of them are hard and 
 need a great amount of strategy, there's no doubt that it's still fun. After beating the game with 
 both characters, you'll unlock a couple minor things. In order to complete the entire game, however, 
 you need to collect all the Chaos Emeralds that are spread out in special stages. If you see a 
 flip wheel, then you can enter the special stages if you use your speed blasts on it.
  
  Even the special stages here are very unique and fun. Sonic (who can only do these stages) can 
 run through a half-pipe to collect a number of rings, similar to the special stages in Sonic the 
 Hedgehog 2 for the Genesis. You use the DS's touch screen to move Soinc around. The special stages 
 also have added features that allow you to do tricks to earn more rings. If you collect enough 
 or more rings in the special stage before completing it, you are given a Chaos Emerald. All of 
 these gameplay elements sum up to one fast-paced experience that should be a treasure in a Sonic 
 fan's collection.
  
  Graphics:
  
  The graphics are colorful and very bright. Many of the graphics are in 2D, however, Sonic and Blaze 
 are both in 3D, and they look pretty good for a DS game. When running through the action stages, 
 the graphics are 2D but with a couple 3D surprises. The boss battles are in complete 3D graphics, 
 but with 2D gameplay (like SSBM) . The 2D textures are nicely done and the polygons aren't bad ether. 
 Sonic Rush, overall, has a pretty clean presentation.
  
  Sound:
  
  Now this is where I drop my positive views of Sonic Rush. The music is absolutely unfitting for 
 a Sonic game. Sure it's catchy, but not in a great way. If any of you heard of Jet Set Radio or 
 JSRF's music, then this type of music will be familiar to you. Many of the songs do not fit in 
 this type of game at all in my opinion. The sound effects are old-school style, and that's not 
 a bad thing. So there are no problems there. Another minor issue is the voice acting. Though the 
 dialogue during the cutscenes is in text only, you'll hear a couple one liners while playing Sonic 
 Rush. Some of the voices in the overall game are pretty good, but there are a couple annoying voices 
 as well. Sonic Rush's audio presentation did not impress me much, but it might impress you if you 
 give this game a try.
  
  Conclusion:
  
  Aside from the audio, I can not think of anything negative of Sonic Rush. This game offers up fast 
 2D-gameplay like the series is famous for along with other elements to keep the fun going. Unfortunately, 
 the game is not very long. There are only 14 action stages total in Sonic Rush and 9 boss battles. 
 (one of them is locked until you get all the Chaos Emeralds) So the value, like most 2D Sonic games, 
 is not long-lasting. Still if you're up for some fast Sonic fun for your DS, Sonic Rush is the 
 game for you.
  
  Pros:
  
  -Fast and fun 2D gameplay
  -New elements, such as tricks and blast dashes, are nice additions
  -Colorful graphics
  
 
  Cons:
  
  -Music might not be pleasant for your ears
  -A little short
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: NyJeo723
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 13, 2007 11:50 pm PT
Review:  Great fun.
  
  the levels are all fun and the bosses even better. the special levels are great also but it takes 
 a couple of tries to beat the more difficult ones.
  
  the story is not very important part of the game but its about nega eggman break the time continuum 
 to come into sonic's world and blaze came after him to get all the emeralds back from eggman nega. 
 
  
  Blaze at first doesn't like making friends but at the end she makes friend with everyone in sonics 
 world and got all her emeralds back basically. sonic story is seeing blaze and trying to find out 
 who she is.
  
  Overall this is a must have. Has you entertain for hours. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Nick_Rc
Rating: 8.9
Date: Jan 14, 2006 5:31 pm PT
Review:  With shadow getting his own game do you think sonic is upset? Hell no not when sonic rush is twice 
 the game if like me you have been disappointed by the lack of really good games for the ds then 
 this will make it all worth while sonic rush the mix of old and new looks having the levels in 
 2d like the classic games and the boss battles in 3d but the games real style lies in its fast 
 pace game play sonic really does break the sound barrier in this game the one problem i would have 
 is the lack of difference between sonic and blaze but that problem doesnt ruin the fun.
  
  The only real problem is getting past the midnight carnival level XD
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: ShadowJustin
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 13, 2006 9:25 pm PT
Review:  Well a new character named Blaze joining Sonic dashing through zones, we expect nothing less in 
 this game. Sonic has new moves to make himself even more faster and also some 3d boss battles. 
 My only dissapointment about this game is Super Sonic which cannot be used in a regular zones. 
 Also, why not let the others (tails, knuckles, amy and so on) join the game, I think it would be 
 fun if you could. This game is kinda easy for me, I beat it 2 days after buying it. It also contain 
 a special mode which is going to be Super Sonic & Blaze beating Eggman & Nega. Well I think that's 
 all I can say so far. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Gr33nHippo
Rating: 9.2
Date: Jan 13, 2006 2:58 pm PT
Review:  If you are a fan of the original sonic games, than this will be a good choice for your next ds 
 game. The game is really fast and exciting. The 3d boss battles are fun to look at, and give the 
 game a twist, along with the gem side games where you use the stylus to control sonic. However, 
 there are a couple of flaws in the game. At some points the game gets frustrating after you fall 
 to your death at the same point over and over again. The second playable character doesnt add much 
 new to the game. 
  
  Overall Sonic Rush is a must by for gamers who enjoyed the classics. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: firebladedx
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 13, 2006 2:15 am PT
Review:  wow, although it took me 3 days to complete with all 7 choas emeralds it was really fun. The gameplay 
 it just truly amazing. A HUGE!!! improvement from sonic advance 3. Although it connects to its 
 roots very well with the amount of enemies increased and the speed tuned up it still has many references 
 to the new gamecube version. The 3D bosses were all VERY impresive and the final end boss was worth 
 the 7 special stages which were also extremely impressive.
  
  The game itself is very easy i though and im still waiting for something to match the length of 
 sonic CD or sonic 3 and knuckles. Oh well one day. But for the mean time ALL sonic fans must get 
 this game. It does the name sonic proud.
  
  Blaze is a intresting addition to the sonic team and the story line is definiately a new stream 
 from that of sonic X (if anyone couldnt tell yet ive been a mssive sonic fan all my life lol)
 
  
  Over all amazing game, with good catchy music and intresting bold new gameplay.
  2 thumbs up 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cps
Rating: 8.9
Date: Jan 9, 2006 5:19 pm PT
Review:  From the get go, what is most noticable of Sonic Rush, in comparison to it's console counterparts 
 that have been released fairly recently (Sonic Heroes, and Shadow the hedgehog) , is it's step back 
 to the classic 2D style gameplay, famous of the megadrive era, and considered the better years 
 for the Sonic franchise. 
  
  But, even with the same sidescrolling basis, what I first felt when playing the game, was that 
 Sonic Rush feels more like a spin-off, than a new addition. Thankfully it doesn't emulate, however, 
 the knock-off titles, such as Shadow the hedgehog, or stand as a mere sequel. The gameplay is different, 
 and should have been noted due to the title 'Rush' - This time round, you're going full speed ahead, 
 without any of the interuptions that stalled you before in the classic titles. Even enemies can't 
 stop you, with the new ability to boost. Which acts as a way to go full pelt, through obstacles 
 and puzzles, while pushing enemies out of the way, that may have tried to stop you. 
  
  A trick system acts as a way to build your boost meter, and is a refreshing addition. The boost 
 can be used in a number of ways, ranging from escaping from huge Eggman boulders on slopes, or 
 boosting on portals to enter special stages. Also, buy using the 'R' button, you can pull off an 
 extra jump when using springs, or more tricks while grinding, and further deepens the gameplay. 
 
  
  There are some nagging issues, with enemies being somewhat randomly placed, so that in places where 
 you need speed, or to land from a dangerous jump, you get thrown back (often leading to your death) , 
 or lose all your rings, when you're about to enter a particulary tricky area, and as Gamespot said 
 before, these enemies are usually placed in blindspots, over the two screen usage. But it's all 
 trial and error, and a life is a worthy sacrifice to get through and onto the bosses!
  
  The Bosses, unlike most of the classic bosses in the original games (except for Sonic CD) , are 
 in 3D. But still are played out on a 2D sidescrolling platform, where you'll be occasionally running 
 up and down a rounded course, or a straight course, while you tackle the giant machines of Eggman 
 and his alter-dimensional self, Eggman Nega. 
  
  Blaze is also a new feature to the Sonic franchise, and is to Sonic, what Eggman Nega is to Eggman. 
 She is Sonic's alter-dimension version of himself, and as a mysterious dimensional bleed occurs, 
 she has found herself in his world, searching for her version of the chaos emeralds (the sol emeralds) 
 to put things right. But how will Sonic and Blaze fair against twice the Eggman? - Well they don't. 
 The game plays somewhat separately with the choice of either character, with their tales rarely 
 intertwining, and the same goes for the two Eggmen. Though when you do see them together, small 
 cutscenes and dialogue bubbles, move the story on well, even more so than some of the console games, 
 with their almost unlimited ability to, but never quite fully exploring. 
  
  The special stages (of which can only be accessed by Sonic) are ok, for a break. They are in full 
 3D and opens on Sonic running in a Sonic 2 esque special stage, trying to collect rings, on a slope, 
 avoiding spiked bombs. This however, is now controlled through the touch screen, which sometimes 
 finds it hard to keep up with your movements! 
  
  Overall Sonic Rush, has to be the greatest achievement for Sega in a long time, and probably THE 
 most brilliant game Sonic Team has ever created since the good old days. The gameplay is solid, 
 and no matter of the small faults, with more experience, the better the gameplay. The graphics 
 are very well done, with very good 3D models, alongside detailed and well designed 2D backdrops. 
 The music is fun and beats along to the game amazingly, and manages to drown out the repetative 
 dings of collecting rings, and the whining noise of Sonic spinning etc... 
  
  While there is not much in terms of HUGE value, with the game being fairly short as both Blaze 
 and Sonic have the same levels, there is definate replay value, and unlockables to find. Then, 
 playing as Super Sonic, and Super Blaze, is another experience in itself! 
  
  Sonic Rush is a great achievement, that almost wasn't back in it's early development as a 3D sonic 
 title, and now it stands proud as one of the best games presently available for the Nintendo DS! 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DJ_devster
Rating: 9.6
Date: Jan 8, 2006 6:36 am PT
Review:  Sonic games have always been fast (apart from sonic R and sonic battle) but this goes back to why 
 we all love that hedgehog. The speed. and theres even more because of the DS's technology and the 
 dual screens provide an extended verticle view but somehow SEGA managed to make it make no differnce. 
 but the addition of a trick bar (boost bar sounds better) makes it less frustrating if you hit 
 a snag and lose all your rings, just press Y and your in buisness. Theres also a female charcter 
 called Blaze who is from a differnt world and her enemy DR Eggman Nega is there too and she wants 
 to get the sol emeralds back otherwise her world will be destroyed.
  
  There is not much difference between controlling Sonic and Blaze but they start from different 
 levels which makes it more worth playing as the other character EG. zone1 for sonic is Leaf Storm 
 and Zone 1 for blaze is Night Carnival. and the tunes are different in the same level depending 
 on which charictar you're playing as.
  
  Graphics:9 amazing 2D with some 3D elements plus the game runs at a silky smooth framerate and 
 i mean really silky smooth
  Gameplay:10 old skool sonic action which we all love
  Sound: the Night Carnival tune says "go go go" a lot and the tunes are very catchy
  Value:9 you'll 
 be finished on this before long but you will replay this
  Tilt:10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: philafofalof
Rating: 8.3
Date: Jan 7, 2006 1:53 pm PT
Review:  this game is probably the best game on the DS so far! unlike other sonic games, the difficulty 
 doesnt get so hard that you have to stop and waste time trying to figure out what to do. the new 
 speed boost button has given it a huge boost in its rating and has made its self a new classic.
 
  but what really makes it great is the sound. the music is so inspiring and really fits with each 
 level. blaze the cat is the new character, and by the end of the game you will grow alot used to 
 her and think of her as if she was also apart of the sonic franchise.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: salamisandwich
Rating: 9.1
Date: Jan 7, 2006 1:37 pm PT
Review:  Sonic rush in my opinion is even better then sonic 2. This time around sonic doesn't stop and sit 
 around at certain sections, and keeps on going. 
  
  the "tension guage" and the timer encourage you to go fast. Not to mention its easier now. The 
 tension guage detects your tricks (you can do tricks in mid air or on rails) , kills of enemys, 
 and you getting hurt. It can be used for an unstoppable speed boost, only beaten by the dreaded 
 pit and wall. This speed boost can get you into the special stage, thats a halfpipe like sonic 
 2. But this time your stylus controls sonic. You put it where sonic needs to go, its very simple. 
 Also, you can attack enemys and hit objects that put you into a 3 second select the number minigame.
 
  
  The timer doesn't do as much.
  
  There are also 2 characters, one for boys mainly, and one for girls (blaze) . The primary differance 
 is that one of their R attacks are unstoppable, but only in one direction.
  
  Using R, you can do a vertical or horizontal jump in midair. Vertical is an unstoppable attack 
 for blaze, and horizontal for sonic.
  
  These simple yet furious controls make it so the game still goes fast, and in fact makes it go 
 faster.
  
  The point is that sonic is simple, fast fun. A superb game by most standard. The main drawback 
 is value, as this game gets boring after a couple hours, but is good in 2 days.
  
  Also the 3d graphics are slick. Quite slick indeed. As good as i could imagine.
  
  The tracks 
 are good as well. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: revolution2k6
Rating: 9.2
Date: Jan 6, 2006 3:03 pm PT
Review:  lately sonic games have not been that good and i was beginning to think that the series was becoming 
 stale. This game was unbeleaveable though. This time sonic is added with a new caracter Blaze the 
 cat who is from a parralel universe and is in search of the SOL emeralds (like the chaos emeralds)
 
  
  the graphics in the game are very smoth and the frame-rate is very good considering the speed of 
 the game
  
  sound is alsoo quite good but it would of been nice to see some voice overs.
  
  controls are good but i found myself getting cramps in my hands when playing
  
  funfacter: 
 as i sayed earlyer this game is fast paced enjoyment 
::::::

::::::
UserName: shadowrulez
Rating: 9.6
Date: Jan 6, 2006 9:08 am PT
Review:  Graphics:
  Best on ds. Sonic and blaze are in 3d but in a 2d world. When the boss battles start it changes 
 to a 3d world which is a great twist.
  
  Gameplay:
  If you are a fan of Sonic or any 2d platformers this is for you. Both Sonic and Blaze are unique 
 and thier adventures affect one another. All the other sonic characters althought not playable 
 are in this game ( Knuckles, Amy, Cream, Cheese and Tails) . Gameplay moves from screen to screen 
 which is great but don't worry, you don't get lost between them!
  
  Sonud:
  One of this game best features is its fantastic music and brillant sound affects.
  
  Multiplayer:
 
  This game multiplayer is another of the game strong points. Although quite short all 14 level 
 can be played single cart and it makes a great addition to the game
  
  Overall this game is brillant and an essential purchase. If you own a ds buy this game. Now!
 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Deinbeck
Rating: 7
Date: Jan 4, 2006 3:28 pm PT
Review:  It was my strong feeling that this series had died after Sonic 2 on genesis. That was an excellent 
 game and the series just seemed to fall into mediocrity after that. What made Sonic fun was the 
 blazing speed you tore through the levels at. That was the original selling point for Sonic the 
 Hedgehog. It was like any other platform game, but at mach 10. 
  
  Welp, Sonic is back, and he's like greased lightning again. This game is awsomely fast feeling 
 and that's what made Sonic fun in the first place.
  
  My only problems with this game are the awful story bits and the fact that you don't start out 
 from scratch after you die. Your progress is saved from where you left off. If you complete up 
 to act 2 of zone 6 you can start there after you die. Terrible. Remember when platform games were 
 suppost to be challenging? Are kids these days really so stupid that they can't chew their way 
 through a fairly easy platformer? I could see a continue system based off of total rings accumulated 
 working, so the difficulty would gradually go down, but this super mario world overworld map crap 
 is terrible. 
  
  The boss fights are a little shady too. And the hangliding segments. BLEH.
  
  This game could 
 have easily been a 9.5 for the in-level play, but it is marred by the above issues.
  
  Best Sonic game I've played in years though, seriously. If you have any fond memories of Sonic, 
 (Sonic and Knuckles doesnt count, that's barely a game people) buy this game. Hopefully by paying 
 for the good sonic games they'll be encouraged to make more :D 
::::::

::::::
UserName: manamonger
Rating: 8.8
Date: Jan 3, 2006 3:52 pm PT
Review:  The ds adds in the concepts of two screens and touching, both of which must be used to your advantage 
 in sonic rush. For a while now I have waited for a good action game that uses the two screens, 
 and now I have found one.
  The gameplay is as follows: both screens are used to show the level, and sonic is on either screen 
 depending on where he is in the level. A boss battle will use the top screen to show 3D graphics 
 and the bottom screen to show the boss's health meter. The use of health meters is something that 
 Sega has lacked in their games for a long time, but is now fixed.
  Finally, what impresses me most is the bonus stages. They use only the touch screen in an attempt 
 to get as many rings as possible. There are also springs that you go off of to do tricks and get 
 even more rings.
  The trick system adds some fun to the game, but not as much as would be imaginable, for there are 
 not enough possible tricks.
  Overall, this game is a must-have for a sonic fan, and still very considerable as a recommendation 
 to anyone else in the world. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Nintyfreak
Rating: 9.4
Date: Jan 3, 2006 12:52 pm PT
Review:  I saw Sonic Rush in the shop, and said to myself "I have to buy that game!"
  Now, I'm not particularly a Sonic fan, not since the original on the Sega back when I was a kid, 
 but when I got this game, put it in my Nintendo DS, I was addicted! I didn't stop playing it until 
 it was finished, and I loved every bit of it! The speed is amazing and very fluid. The boost is 
 so handy when you need to get back up to speed quickly. The loops are huge and the levels are well 
 drawn. I love all the hidden bits that you can only get to when your a certain character.
  Blaze, the new character is one awesome cat. She is a bit slower then Sonic, but can jump much 
 higher and can hover for short periods of time, by using the R button. She can survive longer underwater 
 too, which is great.
  Multiplayer is great fun, there is also DS download play, which is what I have been using. There 
 is a slight lag in some bits in download play, but otherwise very good, you can play on any level 
 you wish from the game.
  
  If your a Sonic fan, your going to love this, if your not, you might like it.
  I'd say, try it 
 out, and you either love it or like it. It's not a game you can hate, unless your anti-Sega or 
 something.... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DIS_AMERICA
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jan 2, 2006 4:30 pm PT
Review:  Sonic returns in this old school fast paced game. But from several same-old outings on the GBA 
 is Sonic ready to return. YES! The newest game in the Sonic franchise is the BEST one yet, first 
 off there is two main modes. Gameplay and Battle. Gameplay is the main story where you control 
 either Sonic or Blaze. Both characters have different stories that very quite a bit from each other. 
 The gameplay is fast, very fast, with stunning graphics and brand new awesome enemies, (some got 
 guns) . By pressing the X or Y button you can perform a boost that propels either character forward 
 at very high speeds. Trust me, you'll be using this alot. The graphics are stunning, though the 
 2D still lives in us all, and thats where Sonic shines, it is getting over used, especially on 
 the DS. But for Sonic it works perfectly. If your a fan of fast paced old school games, Sonic is 
 a must have. Before I conclude the Gameplay (main story) section, I must mention the boss battles, 
 I though the were going to be horrid, but I was wrong. The bosses look stunning and vary from boss 
 to boss, Mario and party wished they could pull off boss fights this fun. Next, is the Battle mode, 
 which is a multiplayer race from one end of the level to the other. Not very interesting, but brings 
 up the value a bit. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Gigatron
Rating: 8.6
Date: Jan 2, 2006 12:56 pm PT
Review:  Ugh... after playing that abomination Shadow the Hedgehog, I needed a good sonic game to restore 
 my faith in the series. Luckily, this was it. It's an old-school 2-D Sonic game, but the vertical 
 sight's been doubled, because of the DS' 2nd screen. There's also some REALLY nice looking characters 
 & bosses, but the stages & enemies are just alright. There's also a great, crazy soundtrack, but 
 the voices, although servicable, get really repetitive. The gameplay is really good, as most 2-D 
 sonic games are, but there's always frustration factors like falling off the edge, or hitting spikes. 
 Plus, the 2 characters, Sonic and Blaze, are barely different. After beating the single-player, 
 you'll go back for high scores and emeralds, which will eventually lead you to the surprisingly 
 fun 2-player mode, which includes download play, but I did experience framerate issues when encountering 
 the other player. Overall, It's a pretty great game that's an easy buy for Sonic fans, but those 
 of you looking for your platforming fix on the DS (and already played the crap out of castlevania) , 
 this one's definitely for you too. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: CamaroChevySS
Rating: 9.1
Date: Jan 2, 2006 2:38 am PT
Review:  Graphics:
  
  Pretty much as good as it gets on the DS. Everything is nice and bright, and very well done.
 
  
  Gameplay:
  
  I'll be honest, this was my first ever Sonic game ( I grew up on Mario instead, sue me) So the 
 speed did take some getting used too, but once you learn every move you get it.
  
  Sound:
  
  Sounds like a Sonic game should?... I guess. 
  
  Difficulty:
  
  This game 
 aint easy! but then again it's not overly hard. Aside from some of the last bosses and speacial 
 stages you shouldn't really too much of a difficulty problem. But hey, the fights are old school 
 and if you love old SNES style boss fights you'll love this game. 
  
  But it's not so easy that you'll breeze through it, giving it some good length. 
  
  My opinion: 
 If you have a DS, buy Sonic Rush. Once you get into it, it's hard too stop! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: R-Dogg
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jan 1, 2006 5:49 pm PT
Review:  great game play make a gaming expierence even more fun then some of the old "blah blah" games of 
 the past. but sonic has kept true to the fun of running around in loopty loops and circles, sonic 
 rush is an exciting game that isnt to complex but will keep you playing, sonic and a new character, 
 blaze the cat, are doing the same old thing in a way that doesnt seem to old, even though you have 
 to play each zone twice, it is good even though it has no wifi and has you just waiting for what 
 will happen next. get it soon cuz its worth it 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SilvenSwordsman
Rating: 9.6
Date: Jan 1, 2006 4:10 pm PT
Review:  When i first bought this game I thought it was gonna be a bit like Sonic Advance but a bit more 
 fast paced with 3-d models of sonic. I was dumb and I looked at the screenshots and judged the 
 game right off the bat like that. But boy was I wrong. Everything amazed me. As opposed to most 
 Sonic games, this wasn't a "hold forward all day" type of Sonic game. There was lots of interactivity 
 between the grinding on rails and the abundance of loop-de-loops (or however you spell it) . Speak 
 about gameplay.. wow, it's fast.. fun, and it keeps your interest. This game actually hooks you in 
 for the time your playing it. You literally don't want to take your hands off. 
  
  As for graphics this game's definitely got it. In my opinion it beats out alooooot of DS games 
 in the graphics departments. The bosses are awesomely animated. I know this may sound stupid but 
 in all honesty the boss graphics in the game remind me of Gamecube bosses from Sonic Adventure 
 2 Battle. But that's besides the point. The backgrounds are in 2-d but that doesn't matter since 
 it all goes by in a flash anyway, we don't need 3-d background to look at. Beside it would lag 
 the game like hell... furthermore, Sonic and Blaze's animations look really great. The only thing 
 that stopped me from giving graphics a ten was the fact that the explosions look like total crap. 
 They are horrible looking because they are all pixelated so much. It ruins the mood when your fighting 
 an awesomely animated boss with great graphics and you finish him and then you see these crappy 
 explosions that look like they can come from the NES. It sucks yah but don't worry about it, the 
 explosions only appear in like .0003% of the game. 
  
  The music stands out for me more than any other DS game because it actually uses voices. It's reminiscent 
 of Sonic Adventure with their cheesey rock music but this time the music actually fits the level 
 really well and the singing isn't too bad. There are a few unforgettable songs in this. Other DS 
 games I've played had their nice songs that came and went but this game has some nice music that 
 can stick with you. When you unlock sound test 100% you will be glad. I don't wanna spoil anything 
 but one of the best songs in the game for me are "Wrapped in Black". Theres plenty more though.
 
  
  The only one complaint that I have about this game is the lack of different gameplay modes for 
 the multiplayer race. The multiplayer race is alot of fun actually, but it just gets bland after 
 all the time just racing. I don't think it would have been too crazy to add some kind of "score" 
 mode instead of just racing. Score would have been great because it would actually do justice to 
 you doing extra tricks (beyond the tension gauge) for those of you who like to be crazy with tricks 
 and all. Oh well, next time. Don't get me the wrong though, the multiplayer is really fun, even 
 playing the same stage over doesn't make it feel repeated. It's just that it could have had a score 
 mode or something.
  
  Everything else in the game is great, I'm not in the mindset to remember every single detail and 
 write about it so I guess I'll just leave you with that. About the value... it's a great game for 
 29.99 (MSRP) The fact that I bought the game for 24.99 (with tax around 28$) doesn't make me feel 
 in the least bit jipped because this game is one of the best purchases I've made for the DS. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Emerging-XIII
Rating: 8.5
Date: Dec 31, 2005 12:30 pm PT
Review:  this old school sonic game returns to his old genisis days for a high speed race through forests, 
 water, pyramids, and many other environments.
  
  Gameplay: Standard Sonic, you run really fast, and jump on things to kill them. Many enemies and 
 other bjects are thrown in there at random moments and will kill you.
  
  Graphics: Simple plain and easy. Graphics fit the game well, and the way you switch between 2d 
 and 3d is also excelent.
  
  All and all a great game for the DS and a must have for fans of the Sonic series and most people 
 who have a DS. But if Sonic isnt your thing dont even try this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Custom__hobo
Rating: 9.4
Date: Dec 31, 2005 10:56 am PT
Review:  So here we are, years on from the first 2-D Sonic outing "Sonic the Hedgehog" for the Sega Megadrive, 
 and we see the fomula from each game changing bit by bit until we get to the 3-D games, which have 
 been nowhere as ground-shattering as the sidescrollers.
  Sonic Rush for the Nintendo DS reverses the cycle and picks up a few scratches of what made the 
 past games good and fun to play and mashes them all up into a truly pant-soiling experience.
  You start off as sonic and are thrown straight into the games first level, which keeps with previous 
 theme orders and is a foresty level. It's an easy introduction into the game, and it leaves you 
 to find out what stuff does and how to get around.
  When you complete two "Acts" In the Stage, the third is a Boss fight, and after a little intoroduction 
 involving speech bubbles and such you start the battle. If you've ever played "Viewtiful Joe" you'll 
 surely be reminded of it here. It's a kind of 2.5 dimensional landscape here, and it's all very 
 bizzare, but very fresh. As usual, get 8 hits on the machine thing and you win, but somehow, it's 
 got an essence of challenge here, and you may find yourself dying a couple of times trying to sort 
 "Eggman" out. This doesn't discourage you, it just tells you that things ain't gonna get any easier 
 here on out, which both sucks you further into the game, and tells you to improve your game for 
 the next time.
  Just a moment to speak about one of the new-ish features so the Sonic universe, the new trick system. 
 This really fun to use when you get the hang of it. Tap a few buttons in mid-air and watch the 
 sparks fly as you flip around a few times and hit B for a spectacular finish, just in time to hit 
 the ground and watch your tension meter fill up another few bars. Then hit X to crash away in a 
 blue fireball as you release all your tension into a super speed dash that levels all the enemies 
 that are unlucky enough to be standing in your way. It is, as the name suggests, a rush to experience.
 
  
  Graphics in this game couldn't be better. Sonic team realised the extent of power they could get 
 out of the DS system, and have therefore gone for the 3-D toony style adopted by likes of Viewtiful 
 Joe or Simpsons Wrestling. This means that the all important speed factor keeps up with no slideshow 
 syndrome affecting it. Also, these graphics make it a fresh and crisp game to look at, which adds 
 to the joy of playing it. 3-D characters, 2-D levels, bizarre yet brilliant.
  
  Now the sounds in this game are beyond anything you've ever heard, well apart from the slightly 
 annoying tails or cream wailing random stuff as you select your level anyway. I'm talking about 
 the music, it's absolutely insane. Sonic Team completely ripped the jingly and happy tunes out 
 of the system, liquidised them, fed them to an alligator which spat them back up, put them through 
 a paper shredder and juiced all the normality out of them. Result? A hyped up, phsycadelic techno-groove 
 madness that you'd only expect Basement Jaxx to come up with after a massive overdose of happy 
 pills. But seriously, this music has you wondering what they get up to over at the recording studio, 
 but it fits into the freshness of the game so so well, and it'll have you bouncing along to each 
 song and wanting more craziness.
  
  And these mad tunes carry on into the all new bonus stages that you can reach by releasing some 
 tension on these swingy pole things. Keep going really fast for long enough, and you'll rip open 
 a portal that gets you into these bonus stages that are oh so farmiliar to the half pipe Sonic 
 2 bonus levels. There is a twist however, to move Sonic around the pipe, you use your stylus. The 
 aim, as in all bonus stages, is to collect the said amount of rings without screwing up. That loses 
 rings, which you don't want. Every now and then you'll smack into a bumper that launches you into 
 the air and the camera zooms into sonic and a few numbers appear around him. Poke these numbers 
 in order (1.2.3.4) before the timer at the bottom runs out and you'll be awarded some extra rings. 
 Mess it up and you'll come back down with noting to show. In the end, get a good stash of rings 
 and bag an emerald. Splendid, 6 more to go. Get to it, kid.
  
  It's a pretty long game by the looks of it too, and with two seperate characters to choose from 
 (not that they're much different but hey) you get a healthy amount of gameplay time, and it's so 
 fun you'll be going through the stages all over again.
  
  So, 4 F's, fun, fresh, fantastic and fast. All a Sonic game should be, and this game achieves all 
 of them faster than you can say "fast".
  Anyway, get Sonic Rush, now.
  
  ... its very fast, by the way, just in case you didn't catch that. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Tuddytudman
Rating: 9.8
Date: Dec 31, 2005 9:59 am PT
Review:  Graphics: nice manga style for the 3d bosses, the 2d also looks manga style- if you look close 
 enough.
  
  Gameplay: Brilliant 2d sonic game with cool bosses! WAY better than the 3D games like sonic adventure. 
 The 2D sonic games are where its at. Even Sonic CD can't beat this (sorry, fanboys!) .
  
  Lifespan: AGES, if you want to get to the final story.
  
  Sound: BRILLIANT! the vocal tracks 
 rock and the boss music suits a boss match.
  
  Value for money: Lots, with all chaos emeralds to collect and 2 stories.
  
  Overall: Best sonic 
 game to date with good boss battles and better music than the rest of the sonic games. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Tartarus117
Rating: 8.4
Date: Dec 30, 2005 3:22 pm PT
Review:  Sonic Rush is a game I have been looking forward to for quite some time. Actually, I have been 
 awaiting it ever since I saw the E3 tech demo of the 3-D Sonic game. As you may have noticed, it 
 is no longer 3-D; it is (take a guess) 2-D. The game is simple and straightforward, you start at 
 a zone consisting of 3 acts, the first two which are 2-D side-scrollers and the third is a 3-D 
 boss level. Oops, I lied, this is a 3-D game as well, but only in boss battles, though the level 
 looks 3-D, it plays out in 2-D. (You move left and right) Now that you know the basics, lets talk 
 about the elements of the game. 
  
  Gameplay: At first, it seemed kind of boring, simple, and easy, but let me tell you, it heats up 
 REAL fast. The core of the gameplay makes you play as one of the protagonists, Sonic, through 7 
 acts. Then you get to switch in between the story to the other Protagonist, Blaze (who you should 
 not be familiar with) and play through the EXACT same levels as Sonic. Yes, I can read your mind, 
 cheap way to extend the game, right?
  All in all, the action, speed, and excitement really make the game a great experience.
  
  Gameplay: 
 9/10: If only it werent for the repeating levels when alternating protagonists, it would be a 
 10.
  
  Graphics: Beautiful. I dont know how else to explain it, wait, gorgeous for the 3-D boss battles. 
 These graphics are stunning, while they dont push the DS to its limits; they are a sight to see. 
 (I mean in action  screenshots take away the beauty, you absolutely have to see this in motion) 
 The hand drawn backgrounds look great, but there is only one major background per zone, too bad 
 we didnt get one every act. Sonic and Blaze also look great in-game, you could really see their 
 details while running and standing still.
  
  Graphics: 9/10: Though they look good, Ive seen better. (Mario Kart DS, anyone)
  
  Sound/Audio: 
 Oh lord, this is the downfall. The sound is very annoying, a lot of people seem to like it and 
 I have no idea why. The sound is a bunch of repeating melodies that get VERY annoying. Boring, 
 bleh, tedious, and repetitive to listen to, describes Sonic Teams attempt to make a good soundtrack. 
 But in my opinion, sound doesnt make a game.
  
  Sound/Audio: 6/10: If you are going to get this game, youll think Im being too nice to the game. 
 (or to the sound, at least)
  
  Controls: Well, what can I say, they arent perfect, but if it isnt broken, why fix it? The controls 
 are quite simple, even the trick system controls, which are controlled by A, B, and R. Jumping 
 and running is easily performed with precision, so even your 5 year old cousin can play this. 
 
  
  Controls: 9.5 Like I said good, but not perfect.
  
  Replay Value: Another thing that Sonic Team managed to not do so well. This is a two way street, 
 either you love the way the replay value is made or you hate it. Youll love it if you like replay 
 value that involves time attack, getting better grades in acts, things of that nature. You wont 
 find too much replay value, if not any, if you are looking for side quests, bonus missions, (ok, 
 so there is one bonus mission, but thats barley anything) item collecting and stuff similar to 
 that. To summarize it, there is a ranking system and a time attack mode that make up the replay 
 value.
  
  Replay value: 9/10 IF you like the type of replay that is included.4/10 if your type of replay 
 is not included. 
  
  Overall: 9/10 I didnt really count the audio/sound too much into the score because that would 
 cheaply affect it. Otherwise, Sonic Rush is a great game while it lasts.
  
  So, the big question, Buy or rent?
  
  Well, if youre a real Sonic fan, this is a great game 
 to own but be warned, it is short!
  If you like to finish games once and be done with it, a rental will do justice. If you don't have 
 access to a rental, I personally reccommend that you buy it.
  
  ENJOY, if you are buying the gameor renting, too.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: turkeyman142
Rating: 8.7
Date: Dec 30, 2005 7:06 am PT
Review:  Sonic Rush is an great display of sega at its finest. It has trippy music killer visuals and it 
 so fast it will make your eyes bleed. 
  
  First, Sonic is not a long game, so if you are looking for a lasting adventure game, go some where 
 else. This is all about speed. Sonic and second playable character blaze move so fast its a wonder 
 your ds doesn't explode. 
  
  The levels are well designed and get your heart pounding. There are classic sonic zones remixed 
 for the ds. There are some issues where you run right into enemies but it is not so bad if you 
 continuously use boost. 
  
  To get boost you use a surprisingly deep trick system. By tapping the r button on rails and mashing 
 the b and a buttons in midair (only off of "gimmicks" not your own jumps) your get more boost. 
 
  
  Which, when used, lets you blow through enemys.
  
  The music, is very well done and will get stuck in your head. They used pseudo words and sounds 
 instead of lyrics in most songs, but they move a such a clip that even if there were words you 
 coulden't hear them. The sound effects are standard sonic fare with all the expected, blings and 
 boings. 
  
  The 2.5d bosses are very well done and get challenging later in the game. (Just wait until the 
 monstrous last boss.) 
  
  Although the main story mode is short, and sonic and blaze are basically the same, the are a few 
 extra modes that you get once you beat the game. The time attack mode lets you race in the levels 
 and improve, by seeing your ghost, Mario kart style. 
  
  Sonic rush, is a fast, fun platformer that requires ninja reflexes. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Alucard7321
Rating: 7.9
Date: Dec 29, 2005 3:54 pm PT
Review:  VERY fast and sometimes intense game!
  
  At first i thought this whole game was going to be in 3D, however only turns out the boss battles 
 are in 3D. However the 2D platform action is still fun and very very fast :)
  
  HOWEVER, boss battles are very basic, but then again All Sonic Boss battles are kind of basic anyhow, 
 and afterawhile the Zones become very repeitive.
  
  As for the music the only good track on this game is in Sonic's Second Zone and its only the intro 
 which i find appealing.
  
  There is an embarassing song on the Bonus Stage with vocals. I cringed and almost cried out of 
 sheer embaressment because of that song ;)
  
  The dialogue in the game is still pretty basic as usual:
  
  Sonic: Hey Tails, how are you today? 
 How cool am i!!
  Tails: I'm fine, LOOK, a CHAOS EMARALD!
  EGGMAN: Hahaha, i'm too 1337 for j00!
  Blaze: ...
  Knuckles: WARGH! I'm ANGRY!!
  Cream (?) : 
 Meep!
  
  So yea, pretty much for the kids, still.... i really LOVED the Dreamcast Sonic... the should have 
 made this game all 3D and brought back those crazily fast loop to loop courses which took you up 
 and down buildings within a blink of an eye. I miss that.
  
  Summary: Same old Sonic, music isn't THAT great, repetitive missions. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: green_day85
Rating: 9.7
Date: Dec 29, 2005 10:04 am PT
Review:  Sonic Rush brings in a world of fun, quick, and challenging gameplay. This game can get very hard 
 at points, and the bosses tend to be hard, like bosses on any game should be. Blaze the Cat is 
 a great new character that couldn't have picked a better time to enter the Sonic series than the 
 DS debut. I have to say that Tails was very annoying in this game, but when is he not? Especially 
 one point where just after I got hit Tails says "look out behind you!" This game is true to its 
 roots with the side-scrolling levels, but the 3D touch is always nice. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: stuffedcabbage
Rating: 8.4
Date: Dec 28, 2005 10:22 pm PT
Review:  This game is awesome, even though it is exactly like every sonic game in the world, but hey, they 
 just keep getting better and better.
  
  Blaze is the new character in this game, she is a cat that can make FIRE, she is pretty sweet. 
 Im dissapointed that i didnt see tails yet, but what can ya do? right?
  
  I havnt used the touch screen at all for this game, but i rarely do anyway, its more of a burdon 
 to use. But some games have pretty sweet touch screen controls like animal crossing and wario war 
 touched.
  
  ANYWAY, sonic is definitely a title you have to check out, if your a ds fan, like me. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DragonIce212
Rating: 9.3
Date: Dec 27, 2005 6:51 pm PT
Review:  Sonic Rush mixes the Blue blur's old and well known 2-D speed with a new rush action and 3-D elements. 
 This is a revolution in the hand held Sonic franchise. This game is one of the BEST in the Sonic 
 franchise and should be one of the games that puts the Nintendo DS on the map. Great graphical 
 effects and little but good voice acting from the Sonic X cast . Sega gives the old Sonic flavor 
 we gamers have fallen in love with while answering to the cries we have been making over the years. 
 Tired of the great speed but sudden stops because of running into enemies is now easy to stop with 
 a rush feature now in the game which allows you to blaze through the stage even faster than before 
 while having invincibility from the old crash and burn effect. The special stage is also given 
 the old flavor with a twist by giving us the old run down the speed highway collecting rings for 
 the chaos emerald but now able to use the DS touch screen to move Sonic or Blaze from side to side. 
 The Dual screen use gives the game mind blowing speed as you move from one to another while keeping 
 on your toes. Interesting story and great art style for the stages and enemies. Elements coming 
 from the Sonic advance 1-3 games should give you a good idea on what to expect and bring down the 
 learning curve time but even with experience from these games you should know it is not the same. 
 Overall this is a great game and should entertain all who give it a try. Get ready for a great 
 ride on the DS Sonic style. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: fearthekitsu
Rating: 8.5
Date: Dec 27, 2005 10:13 am PT
Review:  A nice new addition to the sonic series, but with some minor drawbacks. I do enjoy this game, yet 
 it seems to me that the difficulty is a bit overwelming for most players. 
  I would enjoy this game a lot more if I did not have to memorize the entire level I was playing 
 before I could beat it. 
  
  Difficulty: This game really hits you head on right from the start with the difficulty . Unlike 
 other games, that gradualy become harder as you progress this one is pretty hard from the start.
 
  
  Graphics: A wonderful blend of 2-d and 3-d effects along with a nicely laid out bg.
  
  Sound: The background music is very nicely done, nice upbeat tunes mixed with some vocals make 
 a wonderful sound track.
  
  Value: It will take you awhille to beat this game. But value is not just determined by length, 
 this game is HARD you might become annoyed with it pretty quickly.
  
  You may love this game, or you may have mixed emotions about it. I suggest you rent it first before 
 laying down the cash. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: daeneth
Rating: 8.3
Date: Dec 27, 2005 5:14 am PT
Review:  Ok this game is pretty true to the originals with all the same spirit and sense of speed, only 
 now there is the edition of extra moves used by spending rush points which you acumulate by doing 
 aerial tricks, so this is all very true to sonics playful character. The mini game can be fun and 
 at later parts extremely hard with nice use of the stylus especially on parts you have to hit all 
 the numbers onscreen insequence... shame we didnt see more of this. The boss battles where something 
 quite new as they where still a sidescroller only there where 3 dimensions, eg running round a 
 ring shaped platform. 
  
  However the addition of a new playable character, Blaze seemed to me totally wasted. She had a 
 little story behind her but she did exactly the same levels as sonic only in a different order 
 which made the game seem a tad repetetive.
  
  Despite this a nice fresh game, just what sonic team needed! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ScorpMaster
Rating: 8.8
Date: Dec 27, 2005 3:35 am PT
Review:  Gameplay:
  Sonic is back faster than ever! In this game you can choose between 2 Characters, Sonic and Blaze. 
 They both have there own special abilities. (eg. Sonic is faster and Blaze can jump higher.) The 
 game is half 2-D and half-3-D which is a really cool thing.
  
  Graphics:
  The graphics are pretty cool, but it could of been a bit better.
  
  Sound:
  The sound and 
 music in this game is really good and clear. 
  
  Value:
  This game can last pretty long, I played this over and over again a couple of times now, but I 
 still enjoy it.
  
  Overall:
  Overall this game is very fun. I would reccomend this game to all ds owners. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: fbrisevac
Rating: 8.6
Date: Mar 14, 2006 8:24 pm PT
Review:  I haven't really played many sonic games, so I cant judge this game by comparing it to older games. 
 
  Sonic Rush is probably one of the fastest game if not the fastest on the DS. Having to switch from 
 one screen to another is a little bit confusing, but once you get the hang of it, its great.
  There isn't heaps of differences between the two characters, but it doesn't really matter. 
  
 There are 14 different environments, so you dont get stuck with the same one and get bored with 
 it.
  I think the only bad things are that it can be a tiny bit frustrating, if you lose during a mission 
 you have to start the mission all over again.
  If you want a game that not only uses both screens to look at and is extremely fast paced, Sonic 
 Rush is probably the only way to go! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DS-man
Rating: 9.1
Date: Feb 26, 2006 6:18 am PT
Review:  Best Sonic game to date, The Fastest sonic has ever been!.
  Sonic moves so fast on Sonic Dash he has to have 2!! Screens, Zoom, i hav'nt seen him this fast, 
 ever, this is defently the best sonic to date.
  
  The graphics are so good, even on the 3D boss fights!.
  Blaze The Cat is a wired char to handle 
 at the begining seeing as her moves are totaly different to sonics, or any other chars of the matter.
 
  
  Gameplay surperp, Sonic has this extra abillity to make him go super fast!!!. when you destory 
 enamys your gauge will rise, higher it is faster you'll go! ZOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOM!.
  
  I recomend you guys buying this awesome game!
  
  PS- You'll reconise the music from classic 
 songs. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Linkfanatic501
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 25, 2005 7:10 am PT
Review:  This game is great. It has a new female character and her name is Blaze, great sonic speed, great 
 gameplay (espically in the special stages) and great graphics. The boss battles are very cool, 3d 
 graphics and 2d gameplay. U should get this if u are a sonic game or u a bored with your ds. I'm 
 a sonic fan and i was bored with my ds. It won't disappoint u. The multiplayer is also good. Blaze 
 also has cool moves. This game is one of the best games for the ds .So buy this game now or u will 
 regret it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: PH34RMY1337
Rating: 9.4
Date: Dec 23, 2005 10:22 pm PT
Review:  I just picked up this spectacular title for the DS, and I have to say I am very pleased with it. 
 To start off, this game is fast. Very fast. This is like a jackrabbit that just sniffed a pound 
 of crack and drank 3 cases of Bawls. Not only is this game fast, but at points it proves quite 
 the chalenge. While the storyline is not good at all, it still follows in the vein of all the sonic 
 games before it, the story was not the main focus of the game. While playing as Blaze and Sonic 
 are pretty much Identical, playing as Blaze is a different stoyline and levels then when you play 
 with Sonic. I liked the world map feature, and that you could go back and do past levels right 
 away whenever you want. 
  
  The thing I probably liked most about this game was the special zones. Once in a special zone, 
 you use the stylus and the touch screen to control sonic in the special zone style from Sonic 2, 
 which controls beautifully. They also added in a special balloon that when you hit it with sonic, 
 you are stopped and you play a little game of "tap the buttons in order as fast as you can", which 
 is surprisingly fun. The special zones have the same relevance as they did in past Sonic games, 
 to get the 8 Chaos emeralds. 
  
  The music in this game is absolutely wonderful. It's got a techno/trance vibe to it, with every 
 song fitting the environment perfectly. Sound was very well implemented in this game, it had the 
 Sonic feel to it. 
  
  The graphics in this game were absolutely great, proving that 3D isn't the only thing that can 
 look pretty on a screen nowadays. Beautiful scrolling 2D environments, with lush objects that completely 
 fit the atmosphere. The boss battles were done in 3D, which was pulled off quite nicely. It had 
 that cartooney look to it, while maintaining a serious undertone. The 3D boss battles play out 
 very well with the vaccuum seal tightness of the controls, which play out perfectly on the DS. 
 
  
  They did have few minor physics flaws in the game, such as when you go up a ramp to get to a loop 
 and you keep holding the d-pad to the right, expecting to keep going, instead it will slow you 
 down, so you have to switch directions on the d-pad, which gets semi-confusing, but you can get 
 used to it. 
  
  This game is a great title and I recommend it to anyone looking for a great game to last them a 
 couple weeks on the DS. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Pillsburyhitman
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 23, 2005 5:59 am PT
Review:  ------------------------------------------------------------------ 
  Game Review 
  ------------------------------------------------------------------ 
  
  Introduction:
  Sonic 
 the Hedgehog is nothing short of a videogaming legend. Our spunky blue speed-demon was originally 
 intended as Sega's answer to Nintendo's Mario, but Sonic ended up as an entirely different character 
 with just as large of a fanbase. Unfortunately, unlike Mario, Sonic was unable to gracefully make 
 the jump to 3D. His first venture into this realm, on the Sega Dreamcast, was met with both love 
 and hatred. Some fans still loved Sonic in his new 3D Sonic Adventure, but most were entirely turned 
 off by the broken gameplay and the absence of the original Sonic formula. Since then, the 3D Sonic 
 games have deterioated rapidly (the newest one, Shadow the Hedgehog, is nothing short of a disaster) . 
 However, thanks to Gameboy Advance, Sonic has lived on in all of his 2D greatness, and with Sonic 
 Rush he now makes his debut onto the Nintendo DS. 
  
  GamePlay: 
  This is where Sonic Rush really shines. The gameplay is near-perfect, delivering you with an exhilirating 
 sense of speed and some of the most addictive gameplay of any platformer ever. Sonic is as fast 
 as ever, possibly even faster, and continues to zip his way through loop-the-loops, pinball zones, 
 giant slot machines, jungle treeways, and every other imaginable "racecourse" you can think of.
 
  In previous Sonic games, one central flaw of the gameplay was the fact that the game seemed to 
 "cheat". One minute Sonic would be spinning along at 200 mph, the next minute an enemy you couldn't 
 possibly have seen just LEAPS out of nowhere directly in front of you and causes you to lose all 
 your hard-earned rings. Suffice it to say that this was annoying at best. Thanks to the new "Trick" 
 system in Sonic Rush, this is much less of an issue than before. By gaining enough speed and performing 
 enough mid-air tricks, you boost up your "Rush" meter. When your Rush meter is high enough, you 
 can utilize the Dash attack to become an invisible hedgehog projectile and eliminate such enemies 
 right before you bump into them. 
  Be assured, Sonic Rush has some of the best, most addictive gameplay of any platformer ever made. 
 I should note that this game introduces a new character, Blaze the Cat, but she really isn't any 
 different from Sonic so she doesn't warrant much comment. The game also features a multiplayer 
 race mode (very similar to the one some will remember from Sonic 2 on the Genesis) , but this multiplayer 
 seems more like an added extra than a planned game feature, and probably won't entertain you for 
 very long.
  
  Control: 
  Sonic controls entirely with the D-pad, which is definitely a good thing since control with the 
 touch screen would have made this game impossible to play. If you have ever played a 2D Sonic game 
 before, you know exactly how this game controls. You really only use one button, which performs 
 your jumping, spinning, and virtually every action except the Dash attack, which is done via the 
 R button. The control in this game is highly responsive and never feels the least bit clunky (which 
 was a problem in one of the Sonic Advance games) . 
  
  Graphics: 
  The 2D graphics don't impress as much as Castlevania DoS, but they still look excellent nonetheless. 
 The 3D portions of the game (primarily boss fights) look great and offer a nice diversion from 
 the gameplay. Don't be alarmed: they're still sidescrolling, and never "free-roaming" 3D. 
  
  Sound & Music: 
  Some fans might be upset that most of the classic Sonic tunes are missing, 
 but the new music is just as good. It's fast-paced and gets your blood pumping, much like the gameplay, 
 and it always suits the environment. The sound is just about as good as it can get, but there really 
 aren't that many sounds at all, not that it matters. 
  
  Dual Screen Use: (only for Nintendo DS games) 
  The game plays across both screens equally and 
 displays yet another great use for the DS screen: vertical superiority. Sonic Rush proves that 
 the DS can provide a unique experience that would be impossible on any other system, due to screen-size 
 limitations. The game seemlessly into the top and bottom into one game, and Sonic will constantly 
 move between the two screens. This is never annoying and never breaks your concentration. In fact, 
 it gives you a much better view than any other Sonic game thanks to the fact that you can actually 
 see what's below you now!
  
  Final Comments: 
  If you like platformers, this game is a must-buy, as it is quite possibly the best Sonic game ever 
 made. Aside from Castlevania DoS, this is certainly the best 2D sidescroller released all year. 
 This game can also last quite a while if you take time to collect Chaos gems and get all the unlockables.
 
  
  ------------------------------------------------------------------ 
  Game Rating 
  ------------------------------------------------------------------ 
  Pros: Excellent, addictive 
 gameplay. Great musical and graphical presentation.
  
  Cons: Second character doesn't really add any replay value. Lackluster multiplayer.
  
  Final 
 Score: 9.1 
::::::

::::::
UserName: inusonisha05san
Rating: 8.5
Date: Dec 22, 2005 7:07 am PT
Review:  When I first heard of Sonic Rush, I was expecting a fun time on the Nintendo DS. I got what I wanted 
 and more. The game is a big step in the portable games and does the job excellently. You can play 
 as Sonic The Hedghog and newcomer Blaze The Cat. With two characters, plus the extra stage, it 
 didn't get so annoying the third or fourth time around. The stages were nice-looking and offered 
 split-second challenges that were frustrating the first time, but it becomes second nature after 
 a while. The touch screen can be used to select options and stages, but it is mostly used in the 
 special stages, dragging Sonic across the screen to collect rings and advance forward. The action 
 of the game takes place on BOTH screens at once, so it will keep you on your toes. The boss battles 
 are also nice, never letting you use the same methods to defeat a different boss. The voice acting 
 needed some work but the music was excellent. All in all, if you are a fan of Sonic, you should 
 get this game. And if you have a DS, give it a shot, you won't be disappointed. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: NooBPwNaGe
Rating: 8.2
Date: Dec 20, 2005 5:05 pm PT
Review:  I was acually surprised with this sonic game. The graphics were excellent and there is lots of sound 
 added to the gameplay. The bosses sometimes give you a 3-D view, which is pretty cool. Tails makes 
 the level selection hilarious. This game is an original classic with added graphics to make it better. The 
 choice of music on each level is excellent. Im not sure if the game acually uses the touch screen. In 
 my opinion, it probably doesnt because the game is suppost to be fast. Its Sonic Rush. A great original 
 classic with better graphics. You gotta pick this one up if your a sonic fan. The details on sonic 
 make him look real, dashing through the rings. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bayroot88
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 17, 2005 1:31 pm PT
Review:  Sonic Rush is a good ds game and a perfect one the ds because they use two screens that is very 
 good you can play as two charters at the same sonic and blaze the cat but her move is so simlar 
 to sonic i fell i running de ja vu the gameplay is perfect the graphics look soild and the zones 
 fells as a roller coaster ride and the story line is good. And the boss battle look excellnt because 
 of the new angle and the emeny is eggman nega this guy bad you can scarm. Anyway this is a perfect 
 game for sonic fans for the ds stat 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Shawn_Watson
Rating: 7.8
Date: Dec 14, 2005 10:24 am PT
Review:  Having enjoyed Sonic Advance I was eager to get my hands on Sonic Rush. With brilliant graphics 
 and the fastest gameplay yet in a Sonic game it sure does make for a great video-game experience. 
 But there's just not enough of it and not much is made of the Nintendo DS potential outside of 
 some slight touch-screen interaction and a tall graphics.
  
  As always the levels range from tropical islands to mechanical metropolis with all the usual powers 
 ups, springs and speed barriers. They are brilliantly designed and contain so many loop-the-loops 
 and massive jumps that you'll go cock-eyed. The sheer speed that you can fire through the levels 
 is amazing. The music top-notch too and there are loads of cool tunes. 
  
  You can play as Sonic, with his usual abilities, or as Blaze the Cat, who has her own mission opposite 
 Sonic. Obviously this involves defeating Doctor Eggman, but you now have a 'rush' ability which 
 acts as a booster to make Sonic or Blaze go even faster.
  
  My major complaint is with the Special Stages. They are the same as the were in Sonic the Hedgehog 
 2, involving the 3D tunnels. And they are impossible. The one that I actually managed to enter 
 requires 160 rings to catch the Chaos Emerald. Not only do I not think there were even 160 IN the 
 whole stage but it's impossible to keep a hold of them as there are so many dangerous obstacles 
 and traps. Plus, you control Sonic with the stylus pen in this stage and it's not got such a great 
 response.
  
  And the last boss is impossible also. There is no way to defeat Doctor Eggman and the controls 
 frequently contradict each other, it's all down to bad programming. The game sure has a few bugs 
 (nothing major) that should have been sorted out. 
  
  So apart from the special stage and the final boss, the game is just too damn easy and has nothing 
 to bring you back for more. Yes, I had loads of fun playing it but it would be only worth the money 
 if it were longer and had more to it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: labouruk
Rating: 6.5
Date: Dec 12, 2005 9:35 pm PT
Review:  I seriously don't understand how everyone is giving this game such glowing reviews and no one even 
 mentions how difficult this game is. The worst part is that if you pass a level and fail the next 
 one, you have to replay both again. I haven't been this disappointed/frustrated with a game since 
 back in the days of 8 and 16-bit when you ran out of lives/continues and had to start at the very 
 beginning!
  
  I am taking a walk down memory lane with this game, and I am enjoying what little I can make it 
 through of the game, but I just wish it would ease up. I really WANT to like this game, but there 
 is a finite amount of fun when you keep trying to play through a tough level and then fail every 
 single time. I'm going to switch back to Castlevania DS for some real depth of play that doesn't 
 punish you.
  
  Oh, another thing. The story of Sonic keeps getting lamer and lamer! But I still love that blue 
 bastard. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: PunisherAB
Rating: 9.9
Date: Dec 11, 2005 10:37 pm PT
Review:  Well, the Blue King. :) The Sonic series in 1991 to 1994 were AAA/Great and Fun games. Then after 
 1997, sonic games went down hill, (and I'm a sonic Fan) only good to ok sonic game were made. I 
 like the GBA version of Sonic, but It not the Same as the Original. In 2005, Sonic come to the 
 DS with Sonic Rush and It' great, just like the originals, Sonic Rush is a Fast, Fun, Creative 
 game with a 3-D Bonus Stags just like the ones for Sonic 2 For the Sega genisis. 
  
  This is not the best Sonic game I played, (Sonic 3 is that Best, my opinion) but the best Sonic 
 Game on any Not Sega System. Every Nintendo DS owner Showed own this game.
  
  I give Sonic Rush an A- 
  For a Fast, Great Sonic Game thats as good as the original. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: game_masta14
Rating: 9.3
Date: Dec 11, 2005 6:47 pm PT
Review:  This game is truly the best 2-D/3-D sonic game to ever come out. It was actually true to it's name 
 because you rush through the levels at well, sonic speed. It also has great graphics, music, and 
 design in it. Also it has aq great story line put into it and it's really innovative with the touch 
 screen special stages. THE only downside to this sonic game are the camera problems. Sometimes 
 there will be slight camera slowdowns which could really mess you up. Otherwise than that this 
 is a great sonic game for the DS so you should go get it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Jaker88
Rating: 7.9
Date: Dec 10, 2005 9:44 pm PT
Review:  In the back of my mind, I had two games for the DS that I wanted for the holidays. Sonic Rush and 
 Mario Kart DS. I decided to buy myself Sonic Rush because I couldn't wait any longer.
  There are many things great about this game, and only a few that arent. So here it goes:
  
 
  Pros- Fast paced, boss fights are really cool, level are so addicting to the point where you want 
 to keep playing them over and over, only need one game card to play against friends
  
  Cons- Not enough levels, characters have pretty much the same moves, only one mode 
  
  Graphics- 
 Really good! Defenitely a large leap from Gameboy Advance
  Sound- Decent, listening to the coins ringing can get annoying though
  Gameplay- Old school, 
 finally another good Sonic side scrolling adventure
  Value- Worth the money, but SEGA could have added more features
  Tilt- Easy to pick up and play, 
 the controls work well 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Godnorgosh
Rating: 8.9
Date: Dec 8, 2005 9:07 am PT
Review:  Sonic Rush for the DS is the first game to really push the system to its limits - this is true. 
 Before Sonic Rush, my DS, Super Mario 64, and Spiderman 2 were all gathering dust in my closet, 
 up until this game. 
  
  This game may be the first good thing to happen to SonicTeam since the DreamCast and Genesis days, 
 with innovative gameplay, two new main characters, improvement in level design, and very creative 
 3D bosses. 
  
  Here's what I think of this game, only in a simpler format - categorized.
  
  Gameplay - Very nice. Speed through 14 stages, and overthrow 9 creatively designed bosses in 
 the most innovative boss battles since the release of the DS.
  
  Graphics - The cutscenes and boss fight graphics are amazing, not to mention the great level design.
 
  
  Sound - This is one of the greatest aspects of the game. Each song fits the levels perfectly.
 
  
  Value - A must-have for any Sonic fan. What better way can I put it?
  
  Overall, this game is nearly a masterpiece. The only game that can truly rival with this one is 
 Mario Kart DS, but mainly because of its Wi-Fi function.
  
  All in all, this is a game you won't want to miss.
  
  8.9/10
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: DBGohan2005
Rating: 4
Date: Dec 5, 2005 8:31 am PT
Review:  This game looks like it belong on game gear. Remember Sonic Chaos that what this practically is. 
 I cant believe it side view. Back to dumb Zones and acts, how lame. Sonic games can do so much 
 better. If you think Sonic Chaos was good then get this. I think Sonic Chaos was good but that 
 on a DS please we can do so much more. At least it doesn't have dumb emblems like in Sonic Adventure 
 2 Battle and Sonic Heroes. Well what else can I say. This game isn't all that. I expected more. 
 So ya that all I have to say. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Yagami-Iori
Rating: 9.2
Date: Dec 4, 2005 12:29 pm PT
Review:  Sonic, the poster boy for Sega system, now dispursed over all the field of systems. None of those 
 game though, have really been all that spectacular since Sonic Adventure 2. And even that game, 
 while being great for what it was with so much to do than just run levels, never really captured 
 the sense of speed that the predecesors on the Genesis did. Well, Sonic Rush, with its tall view, 
 thanks to the dual screens, has come back and shown how Sonic used to move. And with the addition 
 of the character Blaze the Cat, who plays basically just like Sonic, is icing on the cake, with 
 the fun half-pipe touch controlled mini games.
  
  Gameplay- 9- Plays how you want a Sonci game to, fast & furious. My only complaint is some of the 
 level designs seem to slow you down too much, because of awkward pit placements & such.
  
  Graphics- 10- 2.5D levels and 3D boss battles, it all works together nicely. I really hope they 
 a sequel to this game, just with more character choices. (Personally, I'd like a game where Blaze, 
 Sonic, Knuckles, and Shadow were together)
  
  Sound- 8- Sounds like any other Sonic game, which is a good thing. What brings the score up is 
 the soundtrack, which is really fun, much like the Sonic Adventure series' soundtrack.
  
  Value- 8- A solid & fun playtformer... plus the single card download play is great.
  
  Tilt- 
 10- I love Sonic games, this one deserves every point.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: TAMKFan
Rating: 9.1
Date: Jul 8, 2006 6:09 pm PT
Review:  This is the first 2D Sonic I've played since Sonic and Knuckles since I never played the Sonic 
 Advance games. Does this game live up to the old Genesis game? I say OH YEAH!
  
  Gameplay: This game plays alot like Sonic's Genesis games. Which means it's great. Nothing else 
 needs to be said. Rating: 9/10
  
  Graphics: They look quite good but just a tad blocky. The graphics are 3D even though the gameplay 
 itself in in 2D. Rating: 8/10
  
  Sound: The music is great to listen to but I wasn't that fond of some of the music. And you get 
 the usual Sonic sound. You the spinning and everything. Rating: 8/10
  
  Value: The fact that you can get ranks will get you coming back alittle bit and it's good for killing 
 time during long trips. An their's special stages too. Rating: 9/10
  
  Tilt: If you're a Sonic fan or a platformer fan in general be sure to check this game out. Rating: 
 10/10
  
  Overall Rating: 9.1/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Shinobisoma
Rating: 9.7
Date: Dec 1, 2005 1:46 pm PT
Review:  Sonic Rush is one of my favorite Sonic games I think it is second only to Sonic 3. At first you 
 might get mad at the game when you cant get past some level but it is always fun. Another frustrating 
 thing was when you have to get a Chaos Emerald as Sonic it is hard to find each Special Stage. 
 The stuff I liked about this game is how they introduced a new character named Blaze. The best 
 part about this game is the dual screens because it has bigger arenas and the challenges get harder. 
 I also liked how they tried to mix the 3D and 2D to make even more difficult challenges. Over all 
 this game is highly recomended to anyone with a DS and it is worth buying and keeping. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: U_Never_Know
Rating: 8.3
Date: Nov 30, 2005 5:28 pm PT
Review:  Gameplay:
  Sonic Rush still incorporates the fast Sonic the Hedgehog gameplay we've all grown to know and 
 love. Sonic Rush adds new twists to the gameplay, such as a trick system to earn points, and a 
 new playable character named Blaze.
  
  Sonic Rush uses the two screens to its advantage by using the touch screen as a continuation of 
 the level you're playing. Throughout each level, you will be switching between the two different 
 screens. This makes each level quite large with several different paths to take. Sonic Rush also 
 fixes the problem of getting easily lost in a level, and having to waste time by getting back on 
 track - something that was a rather annoying problem in Sonic Advance 3.
  
  For the most part, Sonic and Blaze control the same way. The only difference with Blaze is that, 
 when she jumps, flames surround her body, but the attacking principles are the same as with Sonic 
 - jump on/roll into enemies to defeat them. Of course, this was fun in previous Sonic games, and 
 it is still fun today.
  
  Graphics:
  Most of the game is 2D side-scrolling. Sonic and Blaze are both 3D models, but the environments 
 are in 2D. That is, except for the bosses, which take place in 3D environments. The graphics are 
 quite good, and have exceptionally fluid animation, and the 3D environments are colorful and well-rendered.
 
  
  Sound:
  Sonic Rush scores big here. The game's soundtrack is unbelievable! It uses the modern approach 
 the Sonic game's have been using lately, and combining them with the old-school sounds of the old-school 
 Sonic games. The result is a fabulous sounding game which may have you visiting the Sound Test 
 once you have unlocked it.
  
  Value:
  Sonic and Blaze's levels are exactly the same; they are just played in a different order. You are 
 still faced with the challenge of collecting the Chaos Emeralds to unlock a bonus, but once the 
 story is completed, you will see that there is very little replay value. Collecting all of the 
 S ranks on each level is not really a goal worth pursuing unless you are a hardcore gamer bent 
 on completing everything there is to complete in a game. If anything, the only reason you may continue 
 to play Sonic Rush is because of fun factor. However, it is safe to say that, years from now, you 
 may pick up Sonic Rush and be just as charmed by it as you were when you first played it, maybe 
 even more.
  
  Sonic Rush is a healthy dose of old-school Sonic the Hedgehog. The game succeeds at it's new gameplay 
 additions and gives gamers another flashback to the series they love. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Jak55
Rating: 9.4
Date: Nov 30, 2005 3:52 pm PT
Review:  This game is good, suprisingly. The game`s graphics are focused on the characters, but the backgrounds 
 are bland and repetitive. The game has a high volume that gives it a PERFECT on sound with clear 
 voiceovers and interesting music that will get stuck in your head which will make you keep huming 
 it till someone says "shut up!" and you will hum anyway. The pricepoint for DS games aren`t high 
 and this game doesn`t break that rule. The gameplay features fast action and 2 characters, but 
 the stages and moves for Sonic and Blaze are basically the same in a different order and the character 
 cheering you on in boss battles are disastrously annoying, but hey it feels good that someone doesn`t 
 hate you since all your enemies hate you beyond reason, and the screen change to top to bottom, 
 but this game doesn`t take full DS capabilities, cause I would like to have seen minor stops that 
 require touch screen like pressing a button or pullin` a lever. But overall, not better than Mario 
 Kart DS, but still a must buy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sdvr2006
Rating: 9.7
Date: Nov 27, 2005 5:56 am PT
Review:  sonic rush is the best sonic game without a shadow of a doubt long time sonic fans will love it 
 and even if you have'nt played a sonic game in your life you will enjoy it and i think it will 
 make you want to go out and buy the next sonic game the boss stages are great as well SONIC RUSH 
 = BEST SONIC GAME EVER!
  
  sonic rush will be talked about until a new sonic game comes out so that is how good this game 
 is and it is really addictive 
  
  wwe superstar eddie guerrero passed away on the 13th november 2005
  in his hotel room in minninapolis 
 he was loved by the fans family and friends and will live in our hearts forever my condolences 
 go out to his family 
  
  VIVA LA RAZA 
  eddie guerrero 
  1967-2005
  Rest In Peace
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: ZeroSonicT
Rating: 9.3
Date: Nov 26, 2005 7:32 pm PT
Review:  Sonic Rush has it all! Gameplay, graphic, soundtrack, and most importantly, speed. Going back to 
 Sonic's roots with this 2D side-scroller, Sonic Rush none-the-less usees the DS's many features 
 to their limit. It utilizes the DS's dual-screens for running from one screen to the next with 
 blinding speed. The story is simple: Eggman is trying to take over the world useing the newly discovered 
 Sol Emeralds, and you are trying to stop him and collect them before he does. You also play as 
 the new character Blaze the Cat, who seems to come from the same dimension as the Sol Emeralds, 
 and is, of course, trying to collect them also. 
  
  The stylus' parts are few, but memorable. You use it in the Special stages with the classic rolling 
 arond a half circle tube of the original games. There is also a multiplayer mode where you race 
 against an oponent and attack them to mess them up. The stages and modes are the same for multipack 
 play or DS Download.
  
  With the lofty and upbeat soundtrack and the cut-scenes that are short and sweet, Sonic Rush is 
 a must own game for even the smallest of Sonic fans. It's Sonic Team's 'Masterpiece'. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: skatrbub54
Rating: 9.8
Date: Nov 26, 2005 6:52 pm PT
Review:  Sonic Rush takes up both screens of your DS. You run around with Sonic and from the bottom screen 
 you could run to the top screen. This feature is really cool. The levels look amazing. The 3-D 
 figure of Sonic looks amazing. Put 2 and 2 together and you got a great graphiced game. The music 
 is definately different than any other Sonic game. It's a good and bad thing because some of it 
 is annoying and some of it is cool. The character voices sound good though. The boss battles in 
 3-D look really good too. Probably the best 3-D graphics on the DS other than Mario Kart. Other 
 than Sonic you can go through Blaze the Cat's story. She's pretty similar to Sonic except she doesn't 
 roll into a ball. When you attack with her she spins around in a fireball. With Sonic and Blaze's 
 story cmobined it will have a long gameplay experience. Also when you go off a jump with them and 
 press A you will do tricks in the air. This is really cool. This game is just amazing. You go so 
 fast and it is so fun. If you were dissapointed in Shadow the Hedgehog and be a fan of Sonic and 
 have a DS, you need to get this game. Any fan of Sonic will like it and even if you never played 
 a Sonic game you need to get this. Especially if you have a DS. This game rules! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: XCarlos
Rating: 7.7
Date: Nov 26, 2005 6:12 pm PT
Review:  Sonic rush for the DS is really fun. Some people I know thought this sonic game for the DS was 
 going to be a waste of money, and clearly when I got done playing the game, it wasn't. The game 
 still has the great taste of the past sonic games, without harming it. Also, the main characters 
 are in 3-D!! Also, they used the touch screen to a good use. You use it like the original sonic 
 games ( I'm not sure what it was called) where you have to coolest a certain amount of rings the 
 get a chaos emeralds. You also can play a new cat character to the series called Blaze. The game 
 has a good story line (but not the best) . This game is great to play and possibly a great gift 
 for someone for Christmas, birthday, etc. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dreamdust
Rating: 8.7
Date: Nov 25, 2005 10:14 am PT
Review:  Gameplay - Great - It's old school Sonic gameplay like you would expect to see but with some very 
 nice levels and more interactice boss battles than what other old-school styled Sonic games have 
 been able to offer. Very fast action. Those who played Sonic and Knuckles from the Sega Genesis 
 age will notice a slight similiarity in that you can only pick between two characters (in this 
 case Sonic or Blaze) and the two will eventually have to learn to team up in order to defeat Eggman, 
 very similiar in overall plot to Sonic and Knuckles. There's plenty of more similiarities but I 
 don't won't to give out any spoilers. The controls feel a little smoother on the DS also so that's 
 a plus (particularly in the special stages that you will need to complete in order to get the 7 
 chaos emeralds) . My only complaint would be that there are sometimes enemies who appear to be placed 
 in poorly chosen spots that are difficult to predict unless you memorise the level because you 
 are going so fast and it can become a little bit of an annoyance. However, it doesn't happen too 
 often so it shouldn't affect how much fun you're having.
  
  Graphics - Great - The graphics are a very nice blend of some 3-D models put into a 2-D universe. 
 You'll notice early on that Sonic and Blaze are actually in 3-D as apposed to the 2-D levels. However, 
 there are some impressive moments where the level will spin you around with a 3-D object and so 
 on that is quite impressive. The 2-D backgrounds are nice and pleasant to look at. The only drawback 
 is that I think this is the first Sonic game not to have a snow level (well, maybe not, but there 
 has almost always been a snow level in every Sonic game) . 
  
  Sound - Superb - The music is great and very catchy. All the music is enjoyable and adds to the 
 overall since of speed and urgency. There are some nice voice-bits that sound very good and help 
 identify all the characters personalities. I believe the voices were taken from the current cartoon 
 on Fox which is a nice touch also so they should be familiar to those who watch the show.
  
  Value - Good - There are 7 levels with 2 acts and a boss each with a final boss for both characters. 
 Playing through Blaze's side of the story is really more like part of the main game so I wouldn't 
 consider it an extra or anything like that since you will have to beat the levels with both characters 
 in order to have a chance to get the ultimate ending which of course involves getting all the choas 
 emeralds through the special levels located in each level in the game. Most of the special levels 
 are fair and enjoyable and can be beaten withing 2-3 tries. Only the last emerald can be frustrating 
 but you should be able to get it if you keep trying. Once you do that you can face the final "FINAL 
 Boss" and enjoy the complete ending of the game. Other than that there are no other secret characters 
 to unlock which is a little dissappointing being that you converse with them within the game. 
 
  
  Reviewer's Tilt - Good - The only thing that could have made this game perfect would have been 
 to allow you to unlock the other characters like Knuckles, Tails, Cream, and Amy who were all playable 
 in the last Sonic Advance game. It has one of the nicest endings of any Sonic game and some of 
 the best music of any DS game. The Time Attack mode that they allows give you when you beat these 
 Sonic games don't do much in the way of replay value though. However, you do unlock the Sound Test 
 when you beat the game which is simply awesome. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: WarioWare
Rating: 9.3
Date: Nov 23, 2005 10:02 am PT
Review:  Sonic games are kinda like buses. You wait ages for one, then two come along at once. Sonic Rush 
 and Shadow came out on the same day, and as a Sonic fan, I had to pick up both. However if you're 
 a little more restricted this holiday season and can only pick one, Sonic Rush is the far superior 
 game of the two.
  
  Sonic Rush is a true momento of how Sonic games should be made. Where Sonic hasn't made a graceful 
 transition to 3D as Mario has on home console, this game truly proves that Sonic, in all honesty, 
 should never be put into true 3D in the first place. The plot involves Sonic, and a brand new character 
 on the scene, Blaze the Cat, teaming up to collect the Sol Emeralds and save the world from the 
 notorious Dr. Eggman, as well as a brand new (if you could call it that, I suppose) adversary from 
 an alternate dimension.
  
  Rather than have themselves implement touch screen functionality which would take away from the 
 gameplay, Dimps have gone and made the levels span both screens vertically - this adds a unique 
 twist on platform games. One moment you'll be flying through a loop-de-loop, then entering a corkscrew 
 that takes you down all the way onto the bottom screen, where the action continues. This is a fantastic 
 idea, and works extremely well, even if it doesn't take advantage of the DS' other features. For 
 those looking for a little touch screen action, the Special Stages are controlled entirely using 
 the stylus, and bring back nostalgic memories of the classic Special Stages from Sonic 2.
  
  Graphics are fantastic; full of vivid, bold and detailed environments across your typical Sonic-esque 
 landscapes, with lush green Forests, the Greek style water levels, and the neon lit Vegas style 
 Casino zone. The action is of a seriously frantic pace, and the game suffers from very little slowdown. 
 What sets this game apart from other 2D platformers however is that the character models of Sonic 
 and Blaze are entirely 3D, which allows some great use of the DS' 3D effects. On one level for 
 example you'll find your character hang onto a crane, which will spin them around - you'll see 
 them get flung toward the screen and back again before they fly off onto the next platform. It's 
 a wonderful effect. The boss fights are also fought on a 2D plane, but the use of different camera 
 angles, and the fact the arenas are fully 3D gives them a unique flavour.
  
  The soundtrack for the game is fantastic, with many of the tracks featured seeming like they came 
 right out of Jet Set Radio. There is also a little voice work in there, but most of the story is 
 told through simple on-screen text. Like Shadow, the voices are done by the cast of Sonic X, which 
 is very much hit and miss, depending on how much you enjoyed the voice work from the series, or 
 the original games.
  
  Gameplay is taking people back to what made the Sonic games so good in the first place. Pure speed. 
 There is now the inclusion of a "Tension Bar" which acts as a speed boost which can be used at 
 any time. The bar is charged by doing stunts off ramps and springs and while grinding, as well 
 as defeating enemies. The beauty of it is that it means there is no more waiting to get back to 
 full speed to get up steep ramps, or when you are hit by enemies, for example. However, the problem 
 with this is that sometimes there are some nasty pitfalls you may end up succoming to simply cos 
 you were going too fast to notice them - however this is a small niggle if you can remember where 
 these pitfalls are.
  
  Sadly there is very little difference between the way Sonic and Blaze play as characters, so to 
 get the true ending you essentially have to play through the game twice. A Sonic and Knuckles style 
 format where they take different paths through the levels would have been much better suited to 
 the game's format. Also, was there any need to introduce ANOTHER new Sonic character? Aren't there 
 like 2,568,607 of them already?
  
  The game serves as a perfect example of Sonic's old school roots, and is well worth picking up. 
 The game will provide a healthy challenge to the casual gamer, and is a fun and refreshing experience 
 from start to finish. Once the initial game has been completed, you have Time Attack and Wireless 
 multiplayer to keep you coming back, however it's not going to compare with anything such as Mario 
 Kart. Both Sonic fans and non Sonic fans looking for a platforming experience for their DS this 
 Christmas look no further than this. You won't be disappointed. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: supajerkjalkaop
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 23, 2005 9:03 am PT
Review:  As a Sonic Fan, I Buy all Sonic games i can get my hands on. 2 brand new sonic games come out at 
 relativly same dates!! Shadow The Hedgehog and Sonic Rush.. Unfortunatly i didnt have enough money 
 to buy both.. So i chose Sonic Rush!
  
  The game Starts out good enough, Sonic cruuzin The forest.... Yay Eggman appears! Time for me to 
 defeat another Out of this world useless invention!! But then when i got to the boss... WOW 3D 
 effects!! And this machine looks Usefull For once! took me a few tries to beat him Since i was 
 new to playing a 3D sonic Handheld :-)
  
  The levels are Exciting yet Hard one your first try... But yea, after a while they become as easy 
 as cracking eggs open with Amy's Hammer :P And they are easy to memorise after playing them for 
 a while. The levels Mostly have The Odd pitfall or two To make it more like the retro Games.. And 
 may i say they did a Smashing Job :D
  
  Now i know what your Thinking... "2 screens For the same Level? Wow Thats too hard!! and a Sonic 
 with touch screen? No way! That sucks!"
  Well you are wrong! The 2 screens do not Change over so rapidly so its Damn easy to see, and also 
 (Yay) No TouchScreen usage in levels!! Except for Bonus Levels..
  
  This is a Good game for people who are just getting used to the Sonic series And good for People 
 who just wanna buy a game ^^
  
  So i reccomend Sonic Rush, Because its great!!
  
  PS. Yes there is a Super Sonic Level :D 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rocklee111
Rating: 9.3
Date: Nov 21, 2005 6:03 pm PT
Review:  good: good inavative levle's defenitly thought out. Nice combonation of the advanced games and 
 the original sonic games. Trick systme is realy a nice touch in inhancing the intence speed in 
 the game in maney ways . awsem boss fights, some of the best music in a sonic game , nice plot 
 old school style plot, puts both screans to good use , ( reminds me of the good old sonic days 
 ) 
  
  bad: nothing relly, but i would have liked to see some 2 player games that involve the touch screen.
 
  
  for a while now there has not been a sonic game to join the ranks of the classic sonic games. segas 
 soinc advanced seireas, was a good atemt to reviotlize the 2d world, but the games fall short of 
 greatnes do to poor level disine and repetivnes in the game play. while it did bring a lot of cool 
 new elements into to sonic world the games jest did not feal the same as the old ones. But sonic 
 rush definitly was able to take thoes good elements such as grinding, sonic's after imiges, and 
 crazy loops and combine them with old school level disine. which gives u the feal of the old school 
 games with the crazy affects of the advanced series creating a new sence of speed. not only this 
 but a lof of the new elements such as the trick system and use of the dule screans make this game 
 one of the sonic great ones.
  
  side note: of the two sonic games released ( shadow or rush) i would go with rush all the way ! 
 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Kev3331
Rating: 8.6
Date: Nov 21, 2005 11:55 am PT
Review:  The Good: super fast paced, good use of dual screen, nice blend of 2D and 3D
  
  The Bad: flat story telling, Blaze's potential unrealized
  
  Sonic has never really settled 
 in to the realm of 3D gaming so its good to see him back to his roots in the eye wateringly fast 
 sidescroller spanning 7 worlds from the Pyramids to Vegas. Dr. Eggman is up to his usual dirty 
 deeds and its up to Sonic to stop him, but to complicate matters further a mysterious and feisty 
 feline, Blaze is popping up around the place. 
  The story, which is weak, is told with text and talking heads, we've seen the DS do storytelling 
 right, so why isnt it used here? You'll play as both Sonic and Blaze, sonic with his usual set 
 of moves and Blaze has a set of fire based tricks but the two characters play essentially the same 
 though the story will differ from both perspectives.
  From here on in your zooming around strategically designed levels spanning 2 screens, loops, corkscrews, 
 rails and bumpers, they're all here. But this time instead of just holding foward on the d-pad 
 there's a little more to do. For one you now have a tension gague that u build up by pulling off 
 different tricks. With a full bar u go even faster and can flatten enemies with ease, which helps 
 when you're zooming around unsuspecting of an enemy that comes from nowhere. You''ll also deal 
 with switches, moving platforms and other such guff to get through each level to add a little more 
 challenge. 
  The boss battles are pretty impressive taking the fundamentals of the 2D fights, jumping on the 
 boss a certain amount of time and putting them in a 3D world, these are an exciting new addition 
 to the game and a welcome one as are the chaos emerald collection levels, set in a 3D half pipe 
 you control with the stylus on the touch screen. You must avoid the obstacles while collecting 
 enough coins to fill the quota if you do so you gain an emerald. There are also 3D elements integrated 
 into the main game, which feshen the overall look of the game. 
  The graphics are crisp, clean and brightly coloured with no slowdow despite the frantic pace. The 
 sound features some voicework and sum great electro beats. With seven worlds and two levels in 
 each theres a fair amount of single player action especially given the two characters and some 
 will want an A ranking in each level. It's all quite pick up and play and there's also a single 
 cart multiplayer race thats a nice additon. But its a modest length but adequate.
  Overall Sonic Rush takes the best of the old, adds sum great new elements, refines the overall 
 look and feel and leaves you with the fast pace action you know and love wrapped up in a dual screen 
 package. One of the finest sonic experiences you'll find and a great DS game. 
  *Insert 'Rush' out to buy this game pun here* 
::::::

::::::
UserName: IChangedMyName
Rating: 9.2
Date: Nov 21, 2005 5:19 am PT
Review:  Sonic rush for the Nintendo DS brings back the style of classic Sega Genisis style Sonic. the new 
 story line is great the choice between characters of course are always great as well, but the blue 
 blurr is the best part of it. to Sonic back in his shoes and ripp'n up a side scrolling, and even 
 at times 3rd person veiw is the best, the best detail i see in the game are the boss battles, i 
 can easily compare the fun of Sonic Rush Boss Battle 2 any of the 2 Sonice Adeventure titles the 
 game is beatiful and has very innovaitve screen usage especailly in terms of some bosses. the seconday 
 char, a cat or whatever she was, is ok, but i am leanant towards the new character addition. being 
 i luv Sonic, Knuckles and thas it. but if u own a DS and are looking for something timeconsuming 
 or just looking for you friend sonic DS make a great apperance an reuturn of our blue hedghog just 
 goes 2 show though sega may not be a major competitor anymore they still got game Boieh! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dscrubslayer
Rating: 9.8
Date: Nov 20, 2005 3:09 pm PT
Review:  This game continues the sonic franchise with the fast action and the not wanting to stop playing 
 it. in this masterpiece you can play as 2 characters which are blaze and sonic blaze being slower 
 than sonic can jump higher they are equal at atacks. in this game both characters are going after 
 the sol emeralds and both of their stories soon tie up. this game isnt only for kids many parents 
 who played sonic when they were young will love this game and even people that are new to this 
 frachise are in for somthin good i think you should pick this one up 
::::::

::::::
UserName: owner211
Rating: 9.8
Date: Nov 19, 2005 6:04 am PT
Review:  Sonic Rush is probably the best sonic game to date. Since the first games, and with those new 3-D 
 worls ones, this one is alot better put into a side scrolling/touch screen stuff to it. For people 
 who dont know, some people are really obsesed with sonic. no I mean REALLY obsesed with sonic. 
 But even as all those guys go out and buy a DS to get this new sonic game, you dont need to be 
 a fan (or a crazy fan to love this game. And there's that new character some people are curious 
 about (the blaze-cat thing) . Anyway this game is really fun so... GO BUY THIS GAME!!!! (I'm not one 
 of those crazy fans, really!!!) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Redrapper
Rating: 9.2
Date: Nov 17, 2005 7:37 pm PT
Review:  Its been all too very often where you find two people in a room and a handheld Sonic game between 
 them
  
  A conundrum: what happens?
  
  Player A will pickup the game and love the living crap out of it. Hell play it consistently, mainly 
 for the speed, till his eyes get glued to the screen, sucked out of their proverbial sockets.
 
  
  Player B will play the game, and notice the small flaws, notice the small tinkering itsy bitsy 
 little problems. Hell die a few times, find a problem and/or impossible challenge, and give up 
 all together. The latter is rarer, but the universal thing about player B is that, hes very critical. 
 
  
  Sometimes Player B is a pain, and sometimes Player A is ignorant. 
  
  Sonic Rush eliminates this conundrum with the simple fact there should be no player Bs. Not if 
 you know Sonic the Hedgehog like most fans do. Sonic Rush I can say without a doubt, is the first 
 time in years Sonic Team has given 100 percent into a game theyve created. And that makes me happy, 
 because Sonic Rush is the best Sonic game to come out ever since Sonic and Knuckles.
  
  The games premise is simple. Sonic is on his usual routine of thwarting Dr. Eggman, when he discovers 
 that another Eggman (Eggman Nega) has appeared and is also causing havoc. Sonic must work to stop 
 these two from causing any more havoc. Sonic is also joined by a friend, Blaze the cat someone 
 from the same world as Eggman Nega, and guardian of the Sol Emeralds. Its a much more interesting 
 storyline than previous Sonic 2D titles so thats fresh.
  
  The game play consists of the usual Sonic dash through a stage with flair, speed, and style all 
 while collecting rings and racking up points. However theres a few new mechanics at work here. 
 First, and most apparent, is the Nintendo DS interface. ST did an amazing job of having the action 
 be displayed on both screens. The entire level has you moving through it occasionally switching 
 from screen to screen as you run through. The formula really works well, because being able to 
 see where your moving, and what obstacles may be coming up next by looking on the second screen 
 really does come in handy. And its not just a gimmick, there are times where youll need to do 
 some checking, and be weary of obstacles. The other new mechanic at work, is the tension gauge. 
 Displayed at the left hand side of the screen, you rack up points on the tension gauge by performing 
 special tricks and such. By pressing X, Sonic (and/or Blaze) will do a high speed dash, destroying 
 any enemies in their path, speeding them up, and helping them through the level. This, is ingenious 
 and ultimately what helps this game so much. It seems like a simple mechanic, but in practice it 
 adds a lot of appeal to the game while taking away some of its flaws. In the recent Sonic 2d Titles, 
 Sonic Team has been accused of placing enemies in awkward spots, and having you get hit, and slowing 
 you down at times awkwardly. The Tension gauge helps alleviate this once you get to use it. You 
 dash through the stage using the tension Gauge to take out enemies in your way, all while gaining 
 insane speed. 
  
  While the new mechanics certainly add a lot more to the game, theyre made even more useful by 
 Sonic Teams superb level design. Loopholes, dash pads, jump springs everything is so well placed 
 and well conceived in Sonic Rush. They knew EXACTLY what they were doing. There are times in levels 
 where you have to stop and actually fight enemies, but even then they come at JUST the right time 
 JUST when you need a break from the action a little bit to destroy a few robots and then press 
 on. They dont slow you down, this time, Sonic Team SUCCEEDS in adding variety within the combat. 
 Also hidden within the stages are small little spin poles for special stages. You use your new 
 dash on these and move your controls around on the D-pad to move you to a special stage. Not only 
 is it much easier to work with than the previous Advance titles with special stages, but also 
 the stages themselves are what will really get you excited. The special stages are reminiscent 
 of the old Sonic the Hedgehog 2 special stages, and yes, theyre just as awesome. Only you dont 
 control with your d-pad, but more-so with the touch screen.
  
  Not only is the level design good, but the Boss Battles are amazing. Fully 3-d, yet on a 2-d plane, 
 the boss Battles in Sonic Rush take a high point by correcting the disappointment in Sonic Advance 
 3 and giving us greater bosses than the advance games ever did. They take place on one screen, 
 while the bottom screen gives you tips on how much life the boss has left and such. They can be 
 hard, but always satisfying, fresh, and fun, and never annoying and thats a rare thing to have 
 in a videogame. 
  
  The graphics and technical achievement of Rush also give it some appeal. Graphically, it has a 
 nice blend of 2d and 3d graphics, as Sonic and Blaze are both animated in 3d while the stages themselves, 
 save for the boss fights, are all in 2D. The Sound is astounding, with tunes reminiscent of Jet 
 Grind Radio, as well as some fairly comparable voice acting (though Tails and Cream screech like 
 the sound of a truck stopping after a 150 mile an hour run.) Many people have discussed their distaste 
 for the soundtrack, and I dont know what to tell them. Its JGR style, and its awesome, and I 
 think everyone should love it, but hey, its their taste in music. I say give it another chance 
 put on headphones or something and listen to it. Its awesome.
  
  Theres also a multiplayer option, but it experiences intense slowdown, so while it is still fun 
 prepare to have the frame-rate drop a bunch. It detracts away from the action, but the experience 
 can still be rewarding.
  
  Its hard to fault Sonic Rush on anything it does, its so well conceived and well executed its 
 hard to think people wont like this. This isnt only said as a fan of Sonic games but a fan in 
 general, it really is an amazing achievement in bringing what Sonic fans have been clamoring for. 
 There are flaws, small ones, like the framerate drops and a few voices, but nothing really glaring 
 at all about this experience. If you play through with both Sonic and Blaze youll get the final 
 and obligatory Super Sonic mode and while some people may find it hard to collect all the emeralds, 
 it does add replay value and its hard to imagine people putting the title down only after beating 
 it once. Theres so much variety, so much fun put into these stages that you cant help but go 
 back to it. Its really the greatest gift Sega could have given us. Sonic done the way he should 
 be. People can complain and such about very minor issues, and post reviews trying to slander this 
 game but in truth it really is something Sonic Team should be proud for it proves that Sonic 
 Team really still can make Sonic look good. It proves that our hedgehog is still as good as he 
 ever was. Thanks Sonic Team, youve finally done it.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: pag1515
Rating: 9.6
Date: Nov 17, 2005 5:25 pm PT
Review:  Sonic Rush for the DS is the most recent sonic 2-d game available. In this game you have the choice 
 of either Blaze the Cat or Sonic the hedgehog. Eggman is up to his old tricks again and of course 
 it's up to good old sonic to take him down. But what is this, Eggman Nega, oh no!?, what is his 
 plan!
  Ok before I go on, who in the world picked the name Eggman Nega!! I mean really how old do they 
 think we are!! (5) Ok, besides that, the game is pretty explanitory. (The regular sonic game style 
 sonic) Sonic runs through two fast paced level and then faces off agianst a 3-D big boss. Whoopie!! 
 We do this for 7 levels and then the game is over!! But Sega states on the back of the case that 
 their are"14 massive Levels". Their are only 7 levels, not including the small super sonic boss) 
 but if you go through the whole game with sonic and Blaze thier are 14 levels. But I mean come 
 on the NDS is possible of doubling that many levels. But companies today like to sell us something 
 for a lotta money but that something is usualy half as good as it is supposed to be. But any, the 
 game looks great and plays very well. The trick Idea was a nice addition. People like me will be 
 happy to see that the characters are now polygons and cell-shaded. This game has the best Glitchy-Free 
 graphics. The videos that are shown on this website are nothing compared to the acutaul game graphics. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gokuofheaven
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 17, 2005 2:43 am PT
Review:  Presentation
  The storyline is not too bad but a bit more of the 3d elements could have been used during cutscenes. 
 But this minor issue is covered up by its solid and long adventure.
  
  Graphics
  The developers really try to push the gameplay as much as they could on the DS by incorporating 
 the classic 2D elements we loved so much with a kick of the modern 3d elements. A fully 3d Sonic 
 world on the DS wouldn't just be the same without the classic fast and the furious 2d side scrolling 
 action. Your characters look 3d on 2d levels which is probably another cool thing i've noticed.
 
  
  Sound
  Loud and Fantastic. GIves you the true feeling of fast action with bangin' rockish/pop songs with 
 a little kick of few phrases in between. There is definetly some voice work in between but nothing 
 major. The music is just right for this game.
  
  Gameplay
  Most up-to-date Sonic game for a handheld with the most energetic action. The game is actually 
 pretty challenging! Thinking its a kids game? Definetly hard the first time around, nothing to 
 wiz by in these stages.
  
  Lasting Appeal
  Single Cart multiplayer is where the developers pushed with the extra in this version. Both players 
 have their own scenarios with different levels keeping you coming back for more challenge.
  
  OVERALL: Since this title came out around the same time as Mario Kart DS, it was a tough choice 
 for me personally to choose which to pick up. There is the lack of the stylus usage, but Sega covers 
 it up by using dual screens for great visual effects. But since it's been such a long time since 
 i've seen a good Sonic game to come out after the end of Dreamcast days, i had to get this one. 
 Sega is still going strong with Sonic and i can't really imagine what they will come up with next 
 for the DS.
  
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
