-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Soul Bubbles
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/ds/action/soulbubbles/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 Charming visual style.
 Challenging puzzles toward the end.
 Responsive and intuitive control scheme.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 Too easy for most of the game.
 A couple of frustrating moments.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Jun 30, 2008
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 7
Critic Score: 7.9, 32 Review (s)
User Score: 8.5, 77 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Eidos Interactive
Developer: Mekensleep
Genre: Action
Date: Jun 10, 2008
ESRB: Everyone

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Soul Bubbles is charming, beautiful, and soothing, but it won't keep you coming back. 

  Casting you in the role of a trainee shaman tasked with ferrying souls to the underworld, Soul 
 Bubbles is an amusingly endearing game. From the Yoda-esque tutor who gently teases you through 
 the tutorials, to the relaxing evening sounds of the Savannah as you guide souls into paradise, 
 there is little to dislike about the game. It is simple, well executed, and delightful.  

  The only tools at your disposal as you guide souls to the underworld are bubbles to contain them, 
 and puffs of breath to move them. Paths are often blocked by plants, rocks, and the occasional 
 animal, but you're always shown the way by a trail of stardust. The aim is to guide all seven souls 
 to a gateway cube through increasingly complex mazes, while collecting as much stardust as possible. 
 You can stick to the path most of the time, but you need to venture into hidden areas to collect 
 calabash seeds to reach the end of the game. All the while, your souls sit happily inside bubbles, 
 but they'll condense into a teardrop if they're exposed to air for too long. Some of the mazes 
 also have hungry critters sitting, flying, or buzzing around, and they'll burst your bubbles in 
 an attempt to get at those tasty, tasty souls.  

            The flutter of leaves is one of many nice touches, as is the way your little shaman visibly 
 runs out of puff after an extended blow.      

  The controls in Soul Bubbles are relatively simple. The main action takes place on the touch screen, 
 where you control the shaman and his breath with the stylus. If you tap, he moves; if you draw 
 lines, he breathes in that direction. His abilities are harnessed via the D pad or face buttons 
 depending on your right- or left-handedness. The Tiger mask is donned by pressing right on the 
 D pad, and lets you slice through bubbles. This is useful for maneuvering your souls through tight 
 gaps, as well as cutting sticky vines and dealing with some of the aforementioned baddies. It's 
 also used for rejoining bubbles, which you can do by drawing a line from the centre of one bubble 
 to another. The Elephant mask lets you drain air from your bubbles to make them smaller, and occasionally 
 from creatures such as blowfish, with a simple stylus press. Pressing down on the D pad switches 
 the screens briefly, and a simple tap on the map (which is now on the touch screen) moves your 
 view to wherever you tap. The controls are responsive and intuitive, but they can be slightly frustrating 
 if your bubble is moving quickly. This doesn't happen often enough to cause any serious problems, 
 but there are certainly a few situations that push the control scheme past its limits.  

  In addition to all this, there are environmental puzzles that require you to perform tasks such 
 as cutting your bubbles into smaller pieces, or pushing switches, which requires larger bubbles. 
 Challenges include wind currents that you need to tack across, fires that need to be put out by 
 filling soulless bubbles with water before letting them pop in contact with heat, or rocks that 
 need to be dislodged. Sometimes you need to tap rocks with the stylus to dislodge them, whereas 
 at other times you have to rub them away, and occasionally you must combine handily presented ingredients 
 for a good old-fashioned explosion to clear the path. These obstacles are presented with a pleasant 
 degree of variety, and each new zone presents new types of challenges. None of the early areas 
 are particularly challenging, but the levels are at least varied.  

  The 40 mazes in Soul Bubbles should take four to six hours to play through, and you can choose 
 (to some extent) what order you play them in. Environments range from underground caverns to icy 
 mountains, with flora and fauna appropriate to the locale. The areas slowly increase in complexity, 
 and you unlock new zones by rescuing a certain number of souls. The final zone is unlocked by collecting 
 50 calabash from the first 35 mazes; there are three in every maze, many of which are off the beaten 
 track and rather cunningly hidden. Getting to the end of a level only becomes a challenge in the 
 penultimate collection zone, which contains a number of interesting physics puzzles, so the sole 
 challenge for the vast majority of the game is in finding all of the hidden passageways and hence 
 all of the calabash. The mazes are well designed overall and enjoyable to breeze through, and the 
 game rarely resorts to cheap tricks to block progress or slow you down.  

            The game is quite forgiving; when greedy critters break your bubbles, you have ample 
 time to gather your souls back up again.      

  Graphically, the game is among the prettiest and most charming that you're likely to find on the 
 Nintendo DS. All of the environments and creatures are rendered well, right down to the way that 
 your little souls panic as they come under attack. The game also features some nice flourishes 
 that add to its overall charm: Leaves on trees flutter as you blow your bubble past them, and the 
 petals of flowers blow off and drift away if caught with a direct blast of air. The music is inoffensive, 
 meandering charmingly along in the background. You only really notice it when your bubbles burst 
 and souls run free, or when another serious danger presents itself and the pitch and tempo turn 
 up a gear.  

  The shallow difficulty curve and lack of challenge in the main goals are the only things that let 
 Soul Bubbles down. Its charm will keep you coming back, and it is well suited to short play sessions. 
 That said, it's just too easy and doesn't really reward you during extended play time. The final 
 quarter of the game does provide a decent challenge and is a worthy end, but it's entirely possible 
 that you'll have drifted off by then or moved on to something that grabs and holds your attention 
 a little earlier. Soul Bubbles is an easy game to recommend to almost anyone despite its flaws, 
 and in the end its charm wins through despite its shortcomings.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (7 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: CazmoV
Rating: 6.5
Date: Nov 9, 2008 9:54 am PT
Review:  Whenever I hear about a new, unique game that has a genre of it's own, I normally give it a go. 
 I'm always up for something different. And when I started playing Soul Bubbles, that's exactly 
 what I though. Basically, you have to create bubbles and do certain things with them to get to 
 the end of a course. Inside your bubble, you need to keep spirits that you must protect from any 
 danger. On your way, you need to collect all the stardust piece and all 3 Kalabash's. However, 
 you don't need to collect all of the stardust, Kalabash or even complete the stage with all spirits 
 safe in your bubble. This is where most of the game's replay value comes from. 
  Like most games, there are several worlds, in which there are several levels. Every time you start 
 a new world, the levels are unique and often include new tasks you need to do with your bubble 
 to complete the game. Playing on a new world is refreshing and new, however this only lasts for 
 the first 1 or 2 stages. After that, the stages get repetitive and boring. But as soon as you join 
 a new world, it gets fun again...
  There is no multiplayer mode, no way of creating an extra file and competing with high scores, 
 not even any small bonus mini-games to play with when you finish the story mode. You are stuck 
 with the repetitive story mode, and that's it. The only bonus material is a gallery. In this gallery, 
 you can look at pictures of early stages of the games production, and other game art. There is 
 also 2 bonus stages, but they're pretty boring. Nothing to accomplish by playing them.
  But don't get me wrong. When you are not being bored by the repetitive levels, the game can be 
 a unique experience, not to mention the gorgeous visual. Shops are currently selling the game off 
 for very cheap prices, and for these prices the game is well worth it. But 29.99? I don't think 
 so. 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: ambo100
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 22, 2008 12:18 pm PT
Review:  The bubble physics are just perfect, almost perfect, there are times when it gets frustrating moving 
 purple or blue bubbles (They are either very heavy or very light) .
  
  The Graphics are amazing for the DS but it makes you confused where you are as it has an odd perspective.
 
  
  The music is easy on the ears and there is only a small variety of music, each one for each collection 
 of levels.
  
  It tends to be repetitive, The gameplay is basically getting through one land, completing all the 
 levels there and moving onto the next area in cliche environments such as Snow, Desert, Water levels...
 
  The problem is that there isn't much to do apart from get to one part of the level to the end 
 whilst collecting 3 items each level. It gives it some replay value making you want to visit the 
 level again to get all the items. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ndngld
Rating: 8
Date: Sep 29, 2008 8:07 am PT
Review:  It's easy to play and good for casual gamers. I like the visual design of the game and the music. 
 It's got an easy learning curve and built in tutorial so just about anyone could pick it up and 
 start playing. Once you start playing it pulls you in. I'm the type of game that like to complete 
 games and this game is kind of short and easy to complete in under 15 hours. It's also pretty relaxing 
 since you're not fighting enemies. Instead you're moving a bubble filled with spirits and protecting 
 them along the way through the various mazes. I could see this being geared to those that like 
 Brain Age, Picross and anyone looking for something different. Maybe it's a bad thing that you 
 can only get it at Toys R Us. I think if it weren't an exclusive more people would be playing it. 
 How many times do people happen to be in a store and just pick up a game? I do that very often 
 and I'm usually never in Toys R Us. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: paullywog
Rating: 9
Date: Jul 15, 2008 11:26 am PT
Review:  It's sad that this game gets so little attention because it deserves to be one of the most known 
 DS games. It is really original and very fun to play. I guess the supposed Toys R Us exclusivity 
 hurts it some. 
  
  Soul Bubbles plays like a side scrolling platformer - sort of. You control a bubble around environments 
 and it reacts to them. You have tools to get the bubble through the environment which you guide 
 with the stylus. It is hard to explain the gameplay, but the point is Soul Bubbles is a really 
 fun, unique game which takes advantage of the DS's hardware.
  
  The graphics and sound are superb, among the best on the DS. Of course, whenever the DS has good 
 graphics it is due to art direction, and there is no lack of great art present here. It's just 
 a beautiful game to take in.
  
  Replay value may be its weakest point, but I don't see how people would think this game has less 
 replay value than a game such as Mario Kart DS. This has more variety where Mario Kart DS has like 
 10 tracks and they get very old.
  
  Soul Bubbles is an indie-feeling game on the DS, and along with the indie feel is the way it is 
 recognized - hardly at all. It is sad because this game has a lot of charm. So if you have interest, 
 buy the game for the sake of keeping interesting, unique games coming to the DS. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Spade_Crisis
Rating: 9
Date: Jul 25, 2008 3:23 pm PT
Review:  You play the role of a newly recruited Soul Herder who's objective if to guide lost souls using 
 protective bubbles
  
  Story~You meet up with a odd-looking Soul Herder that teaches you the basics of "herding" the souls 
 to its destined location. And so, the adventure begins.
  
  Gameplay~You play as a Soul Herder, who blows his way guiding the bubble encased souls to its destination, 
 The Gateway Cube. Like most DS games, its all about the Touch Screen. You use your stylus to blow, 
 create, and pop the bubbles. To do this, you have 3 different masks, each having a unique ability 
 to guide your bubble to the Gateway Cube.
  
  Music~You'd probably expect some peaceful sounds, since it's all about souls and all. And you're 
 correct. As you travel the world of souling, you hear the water drops, frog croak, birds sing, 
 and so on. But, at some parts, it gets a little lonely with parts with no sounds at all.
  
  Graphics~Are absolutely amazing. The world is set on tree where you explore the world and guide 
 the souls. You'll be absolutely amazed by the background and how it is set up. 
  
  Flaws~Well, you don't REALLY blow the bubbles. You use the stylus to guide the character to blow. 
 But, hey, you don't have to worry about losing your breath.
  
  Conclusion~Soul Bubbles is a unique game which combines a unique style of gameplay. You will feel 
 an awesome feeling when you play this game. GET IT! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gwmonkeyking
Rating: 10
Date: Sep 4, 2008 12:16 pm PT
Review:  Soul Bubbles is a game. It's not a movie or a novel or a sport. It doesn't bother with story or 
 time limits, providing instead varied and evocative landscapes to stir one's imagination.
  
  Each aspect of this game is honed to a lovely finish. The bubble physics are surprising in 
 that they behave as they should when one expects them to fail. Create a bubble at the surface of 
 a pond, and the water level is just as it should be. Join that bubble with another containing only 
 air, and the water sloshes into the greater bubble believably. Pop the bubble as it's climbing, 
 and the water continues to climb, arcing and splashing down on the rocks. I never expected such 
 a clever physics based game on the Nintendo DS.
  
  The player is introduced immediately to a conceited old pedant, convinced that the player is peeing 
 himself with excitement at the thought of becoming the old coot's apprentice. He obligingly teaches 
 you the art of bubbles in a brief series of tutorials. Thankfully, he withdraws almost entirely 
 from the game at this point. Unless you are foolish enough to start a level with a bubble too large 
 for his taste. He'll promptly tell you so, and rather than shout at the DS, "I know! I want a big 
 bubble, OK?!" you can just pull his head onto the bottom screen, and give him a good SMACK! I'm 
 not joking. This feels good.
  
  Do you know what else feels good? Watching your bubble intently in a pitch dark mine, waiting for 
 its squashed shape to bulge momentarily, signaling another route. Or scanning the walls of a twisting 
 canyon for the slightest crack as a gust whisks you by, and sending a tiny recon bubble to examine 
 it. Or flowing through a mesoamerican ruin in a downpour, watching broad fronds sway from your 
 breath.
  
  The worlds are diverse and beautifully detailed. No element appears to be dropped there according 
 to a designer's whiteboard sketch. Every texture and object flows into each other. No crates or 
 squared corridors here. A player may see a nicely detailed stone set in the wall of a ravine, but 
 it often belongs there so well, that it's a bit of a shock when it moves, revealing itself to be 
 a part of the puzzle.
  
  Clearly, I think this game is brilliant, and I'm being a bit romantic about it, but all of these 
 things happen. Mekensleep poured jugs of love into this title, and in cynical anticipation of it 
 being overlooked. I'm going to buy three copies and spread the love. I considered marking it down 
 one because it doesn't blow its own trumpet nearly enough. That's precisely what I like about it. 
 It's quality is there for anyone to experience, and I sincerely hope that you do. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: adlein1
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 15, 2008 8:44 am PT
Review:  3 years in development and it shows! 
  
  You direct an air bubble full of souls through a dangerous maze by blowing, cutting, deflating, 
 filling with water, heavy gas, light gas. 
  
  The game looks absolutely amazing and the physics of water- or gas-filled bubbles are highly realistic. 
 This game doesn't look like your typical DS game - perhaps more like a PSP game.
  
  The music is very relaxing and sounds a bit like wooden or metal chimes. The sound of water, wind 
 and chimes, combined with the go-with-the-flow movement of the bubble has a strangely relaxing 
 effect on the player. And even though there are lots of dangers to be overcome, Soul Bubbles never 
 stresses you out or feels like work.
  
  It's very easy to get into thanks to the excellent tutorials, which introduce you effortlessly 
 to the physics-based gameplay as you go along. The game's 40 levels will keep you busy for some 
 time, but chances are you'll play the missions back to back only to be left craving for more!
 
  
  Overall, this game oozes class and deserves to be picked up, not least because it was designed 
 by a small independent company, who were brave enough to think outside the box! 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
