-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Space Invaders Revolution
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/ds/action/superspaceinvadersds/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 Two games in one.
 New weapons and aliens make the remake fun.
 Perfect emulation of classic Space Invaders.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 Both games feel old.
 Can finish remake in a couple of hours.
 Graphics and audio are not DS quality.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Sep 13, 2005
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 6.1
Critic Score: 4.4, 12 Review (s)
User Score: 6.2, 129 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Mastiff
Developer: Taito Corporation
Genre: Shoot-'Em-Up
Date: Sep 20, 2005
ESRB: Everyone

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Space Invaders Revolution is aimed squarely at fans of the original game and doesn't go overboard 
 to modernize the classic formula. 

  Mastiff's value-priced Space Invaders Revolution is a no-frills celebration of the classic Taito 
 arcade game that helped launch the industry that now consumes many hours of our lives. The game 
 card includes the original 1978 Space Invaders and a new-age remake, which takes the original's 
 gameplay and fleshes it out with new power-ups, multiple mission goals, and upgraded graphics and 
 audio. Despite those upgrades, the remake is still fairly rudimentary compared to today's modern 
 shoot-'em-ups, so this two-game pack is best enjoyed for its historical merit rather than as a 
 must-have addition to your Nintendo DS game library.  

          Revolution refers to the new-age remake, which adds different enemies and power-ups to 
 the old-school formula.     

  When it came out in 1978, Space Invaders truly did spark a revolution. Kids and adults alike became 
 hooked on the simple yet challenging space shoot-'em-up with the blocky black-and-white graphics. 
 It seemed so easy at first glance: Just move the cannon at the bottom of the screen left and right 
 and shoot the rows of aliens before they land. But while the controls were easy, the game itself 
 wasn't. The aliens shot back. Nastier still, every time you destroyed one, the remaining aliens 
 would move faster and shoot more frequently. All of this stuff is old hat now, but back then it 
 was fresh and innovative. Taito even colorized the game a few months after its initial production 
 run... sort of. It stuck cellophane overlays onto the glass to make it look like the aliens were 
 changing colors as they moved down the screen.  

  The classic version of Space Invaders included on this game card is a perfect reproduction of the 
 arcade game. A side-by-side comparison between the DS version and an arcade cabinet reveals that 
 aspects such as alien movement patterns, movement speed, and shot frequency are identical. Alien 
 color schemes match those found in a cellophane-detailed arcade cabinet. Since the DS has fewer 
 vertical lines of resolution than an arcade monitor, the strips containing the score and the lives 
 counter were cut away from the playing field on the upper screen and moved onto the lower touch 
 screen. That's the only difference between this version of classic Space Invaders and the original 
 arcade game.  

  Tomohiro Nishikado, designer of the original Space Invaders, supervised the DS game's development, 
 so it's no wonder the classic version is pixel perfect. That also explains why the remake improves 
 upon the original game in numerous ways without significantly changing the underlying play mechanics. 
 The basic formula still involves rows of aliens up top and your cannon at the bottom. As in the 
 original arcade game, the cannon in the remake can be moved only left and right. Now though, there 
 are 20 different cities to visit, various enemies and bosses to shoot at, and six weapon power-ups 
 to take advantage of. None of the power-ups are overpowered, but they're all pretty useful. You 
 can wrap the cannon in an energy shield, activate rapid fire, use a laser beam that can take out 
 an entire column of aliens, attach two support cannons to the side of your main cannon, stop the 
 movement of the aliens, and speed up the cannon so that it moves faster. Power-up use is limited 
 by an energy meter, which gradually drains when they're used and is refilled a bit between rounds. 
 Multiple power-ups can be activated and combined, but they'll eat up energy more rapidly. These 
 additions are nice and provide a new way to experience the classic Space Invaders formula, but 
 they don't bring the game up to the level of a modern shooter, such as Nanostray.  

          Classic Space Invaders is also included.     

  The remake also incorporates a few graphical 
 and audio improvements and makes use of the unit's touch-screen capability, at least to a point. 
 Graphical upgrades in the remake include photographic backgrounds, multihued aliens, and large 
 multisegmented bosses. The Game Boy Advance could have easily handled those nuances though. The 
 only time Space Invaders Revolution flexes the graphical muscle in the Nintendo DS is during a 
 brief 3D takeoff sequence that plays in the lower screen whenever you select a level. Gameplay 
 is shown in the upper screen, while the lower screen shows score readouts and touch-screen choices. 
 Peppy music and a variety of digitized laser and explosion sound effects provide the remake's soundtrack. 
 They're not earth-shattering, but they're a big improvement from the zero music and two sound effects 
 of the original game. Like so many other Nintendo DS games, this one makes modest use of the unit's 
 touch screen. Optionally, you can use the stylus to select levels and activate power-ups in the 
 new-age version and use it to steer and fire the cannon in the classic version. The directional 
 pad and buttons accomplish the same actions, however, and they're significantly more responsive 
 than the stylus.  

  There's nothing spectacular about Space Invaders Revolution. The gameplay, the graphics, and the 
 audio all feel a bit dated, even in the new-age remake, but perhaps that's the point. This Nintendo 
 DS game card is aimed squarely at fans of the original game and doesn't go overboard to modernize 
 the classic formula.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (6 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: Orion_Pimpdaddy
Rating: 3
Date: Jan 21, 2009 7:12 am PT
Review:  Review:
  
  To sum it up for you right off the bat, this is a very unexciting game. I really had to force myself 
 to play it so that I could give it a review. I believe most everyday, non-reviewing players, what 
 have not had the desire to play through the entire game. I kept playing, hoping it would get better, 
 but it didn't.
  
  To start off, technologically, this game is nothing beyond the capabilities of the Game Gear. The 
 sound effects are not exciting. The graphics are minimal. I know, I know, it is space invaders, 
 but after playing through the game I felt like it was only 10% of what it could have been, a shell 
 of a game.
  
  The difficulty is inconsistent. I would plow through several stages, then get stuck playing a stage 
 over and over again (like China) . Finally after beating that stage, I would plow through another 
 sets of stages before running into another extremely difficult stage. There was no "build" to the 
 difficulty. 
  
  I don't often question the accuracy of science in video games, but this game had some questionable 
 astronomy. The "moon" stage wasn't even on the moon. Instead it had the moon AND the earth in the 
 background, and they were right next to each other. After that, another stage, called Galaxy, did 
 not even have galaxy in the background. It was an image of many planets, all close to each other. 
 I know, planets are small parts of the galaxy, but I really think the developers meant for it to 
 be a stage called "Solar System."
  
  Even though there are over 20 stages, Revolution still felt short. With a game this simple, I believe 
 there could have been more effort to take Space Invaders revolution to new heights, justifying 
 the name of the game. 
  
  In order to use power ups you have to earn them through playing the Classic mode, which is basically 
 a very similar version of the original late 70's arcade game. Even being the classic gamer that 
 I am, I did not find this version to fun at all. Everything is so tiny, and the spirit of the old 
 classic just doesn't feel like it is there. Also, I didn't like being forced to play it. I'll take 
 the 2600 version over it any day.
  
  Once earned, the power-ups are weak and don't very long. This design fits the game because you 
 don't want players eliminating the whole board in a couple of seconds. Still, with that in mind, 
 today's players who have played Gradius or 1943 are going to be used to having power-ups that last 
 forever. The bottom line is that the game's power-ups don't bring as much fun as other shooters. 
 By the way, there are only six power-ups anyway.
  
  The nicest thing about the game are the change in backgrounds and music as you go around the world. 
 Although, I think this is a very small plus for the game. Many players will notice that the backgrounds 
 have no motion in them, something that could have been easily done on the DS. I really wish the 
 London background had cars moving, instead of cars frozen in time.
  
  Overall, this is not a fun gaming experience. The gameplay, although faithful to the original Space 
 Invaders, feels tedious for a modern DS game. Nothing exciting happens as you plunge slow-moving 
 bullets into the slow-moving enemies. The movement of the invaders could be associated with the 
 tic-tock movement of a grandfather clock, old and slow.
  
  If you see this game laying around, leave it where it is and play something else. Life is too short.
 
  
  
  Ways this game could have been improved upon:
  
  Many more stages
  Movement in the backgrounds
  More power-ups
  Difficulty that increases incrementally
  More 
 inspiration, overall
  
  
  What type of players would have fun with this game:
  
  Nobody I can think of
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: GalenGamer
Rating: 5.5
Date: Dec 2, 2008 8:35 pm PT
Review:  Space Invaders is a classic, fun arcade game that never gets old. But if you want to play the original 
 Space Invaders, you can play it free of charge on 90% of the flash game websites out there. 
  
  This leaves you wondering why you would pay $20 for Space Invaders while being able to play 
 it free. Well according to the back of Space Invaders Revolution's box, you can play the classic 
 game along with the "New-Age Version" that offers "More than 60 levels and 20 locations..." leading 
 the buyer to beleive that they can play their favorite Atari game on updated levels with awesome 
 design. But that's not the case here.
  
  Space Invaders Revolution has the same exact stage on every level with a different background image 
 and different sized aliens. Yes, the graphics are updated but only to the extent of a GameBoy Advance 
 game, not making the use of the DS's new and improved graphics except for the opening cut-scene. 
 
  
  The music is fine, and fits the theme of where you are supposed to be in the game. And the sound 
 effects are that of your basic arcade shooter.
  
  The bottom line is that this is waste of your money. You can play the original Space Invaders for 
 free easily. But if you are truly looking for a Space Invaders update that gives you the Space 
 Invaders feel along with an update in graphics, sound, and gameplay then search GameSpot for Space 
 Invaders Extreme for the DS. 
  
  If after reading this and researching the game and you still want the game, then get it off e-bay 
 for a couple bucks, because that's all its worth. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: stAmbrosius
Rating: 1.4
Date: Feb 20, 2007 5:49 am PT
Review:  I don' know exactly why i bought this game. I was looking to buy a nintendo DS game and went home 
 with this! What went wrong?
  I don't know, i wanted a game that didn't feature Mario and was not to expensive. Well Space Invaders 
 certainly qualifies. Further more, on the back it had these screens of various famous places around 
 the world where you had to defy the space invasion and it seemed like fun. I was wrong and should 
 have known better. Space Invaders were no fun then and they still aren't now. As you shoot the 
 little buggers they start moving faster and faster. In the end it comes down to luck if you accidentally 
 hit one. You can use some special weapons (this is the so-called revolution ) which improves your 
 chances of hitting the bastards. You have to use the stylus to activate the weapons, while the 
 rest of the time you are using the buttons. You could use the stylus all the time, but this makes 
 the game unplayable. If someone wants to give it to you for free: politely refuse. This game is 
 utter crap! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: CheezyFrog
Rating: 7.3
Date: Aug 1, 2006 6:12 pm PT
Review:  Gameplay- The game-play is nothing special, its very reminiscent of the old school Space Invaders 
 with a few things dropped in to spice it up here and there. The game had a lot of potential but 
 nothing was done with that potential so the end product was catastrophically worse then is shouldve 
 been. This game wasnt all terrible though if you enjoyed the original Space Invaders arcade game 
 thisll help stir up old memories. Overall the game-play mechanics are nothing new and in contrast 
 with most mediocre DS titles this game is still sub-par. Unlike previous ports of Space Invaders 
 this particular edition offers an intriguing difficulty level thatll have you coming back for 
 more, that is until you complete it, then itll sit there collecting dust with those unopened Power 
 Ranger action figures and that World 1337-est Geek coffee mug you never use.
  
  Graphics- The graphics are solid, nothing special, though the backgrounds are particularly crisp 
 & clear for a DS title. Its the same thing we played in the 80s with a few minor additions & 
 a 3-D cut scene that is blurry & pixilated that gets played OVER & OVER.
  
  Sound- The sound is okay, it is VERY old-school so it wouldnt be hard for ANY handheld, yesnot 
 even the N-Gage, to pull of the simple 8-bit bleeps, bloops, & blaps that are used in the game.
 
  
  Value- For $19.99 Id buy almost any game, so for one that actual gives me a few hours of entertainment 
 and brings back a few haunting arcade memories I say snatch it up while you can.
  
  Tilt- Im an uber huge fan of Space Invaders so it was a pleasant surprise to find an affordable 
 Space Invaders game for my favorite handheld; even though it wasnt all I hoped it would be I was 
 satisfied. 
  
  Space Invaders Revolution is a good game while you play it but theres no point in touching the 
 cartridge after you complete the game, which wont take more then 7-9 hours ( (depending on how 
 good you are) ) it really comes down to two things:
  
  Are you a HARDCORE Space Invaders fan!?
  
  Or
  
  On your income can you afford to potentially 
 waste money on a one-time joyride!?
  
  YOU DECIDE!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rhamier2004
Rating: 7
Date: Jan 14, 2006 5:23 pm PT
Review:  you see, space invaders revolution is not a bad game. it features the old school version as well 
 as a new version. the old school version as you know is not bad at all. its the new school version 
 that has the cons. first of all, it has gameboy quality graphics except for a 10 second 3D cenimatic 
 scene that shows when you are taking off on the new version. i was expecting somthing more juicy. 
 this game is just better to rent. dont buy it. i rather you take your 19.99 at EB games and purchase 
 a used version of FIFA 06. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: R-Dogg
Rating: 1.9
Date: Dec 26, 2005 3:29 pm PT
Review:  This game is so crappy that you wont believe it, its just the same old piece of crap that you left 
 behind in the 80's except one thing... it HAS come back to haunt you. its so boring and has terrible 
 graphics, nothing has changed from the old one, personally i think this is too low to even be considered 
 garbage, if your a parent and are reading this... save your kid some dignity and dont buy it for 
 him/her. total waste of cash even if you get it free, never play this. this game must have took 
 about 5 minutes to make so if your looking for quality then forget about it 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
