-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Space Invaders Extreme
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/ds/action/spaceinvadersextreme/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 New weapons and enemies make a 30-year-old formula feel fresh.
 Local and online multiplayer is lots of fun.
 Basic gameplay is easy to grasp, but has additional layers of depth to appeal to skilled players.
 Online leaderboards let you share your scores with the world.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 Single-player mode is far too short.
 Top screen is full of meaningless gauges and meters .
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Jun 16, 2008
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 7.5
Critic Score: 8.4, 40 Review (s)
User Score: 8.2, 132 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Square Enix
Developer: Taito Corporation
Genre: Shoot-'Em-Up
Date: Jun 17, 2008
ESRB: Everyone

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Fast-paced shooting action and enjoyable multiplayer help the Space Invaders series celebrate its 
 30th anniversary in style. 

  There's nothing quite like an old video game series celebrating a landmark anniversary to make 
 you feel old, especially when it's a 30th anniversary, as is the case for Space Invaders. The game 
 that literally created a shortage of yen coins in Japan is celebrating three decades of blasting 
 aliens with Space Invaders Extreme for the Nintendo DS. New graphics, revamped gameplay, fun multiplayer, 
 and a low price make this new imagining of Space Invaders a surprisingly good time.  

  As in the 1978 original, you move a small cannon back and forth across the bottom of the screen 
 and blast formations of invaders that slowly descend from above. Although the basic concept remains 
 intact, almost everything else is different. You'll notice right away that there are no longer 
 any destructible barriers to hide under. This isn't necessarily good or bad, but it was such a 
 memorable feature of the first game that its omission is at least noteworthy. The attacking aliens 
 have seen quite a bit of change. Your foes now come in different colors and sizes, sometimes have 
 shields, can swarm down to attack, and group together in a variety of different formations. Every 
 level ends with a boss encounter. The giant-sized bosses may look intimidating, but the fights 
 are generally straightforward -- avoid their halfhearted attacks and shoot their easy-to-see weak 
 point (s) .  

           The core Space Invaders experience is intact, but you'll need some new skills to get really 
 high scores.      

  Your goal is to avoid being hit while racking up the highest score possible across the game's five 
 levels, and at first you'll be happy to shoot indiscriminately and not die. But as you'll note 
 by all of the different gauges that clutter up the top screen, there's more to Space Invaders Extreme 
 than dodging lasers and mashing the fire button. The instruction manual mentions max chains, score 
 rates, features, breaks, and a host of other gameplay terms, but it doesn't do a great job of clearly 
 defining what all of those terms mean, so you'll have to experiment to find out. Shooting like-colored 
 aliens in succession not only increases your score, but it also causes them to drop one of four 
 power-ups: a spread gun, a laser that explodes on contact and takes out multiple targets, a laser 
 that can destroy an entire column, and a shield for your cannon. You'll also earn a bonus for shooting 
 a column of aliens in order or for clearing an entire formation without missing.  

  The UFOs that zoom across the screen every so often are back, but now there are a few different 
 varieties. Depending on the color, they'll fly on by, shoot lasers, or add invaders to the formation. 
 If you shoot a roulette UFO, you'll start a brief minigame in which you earn either a score bonus, 
 extra cannon, or nothing at all. Blowing up a flashing UFO will start a timed bonus round. Goals 
 of the bonus rounds vary, but you'll typically need to shoot down a set number of a certain invader 
 or collect falling items. Should you achieve the round's goal, you'll activate fever time. This 
 takes place on the regular playfield, and you get a time limit and a souped-up cannon that annihilates 
 everything in sight, earning you crazy amounts of points in the process.  

  There's a lot more to this Space Invaders than the first, but it's not as complicated as it sounds. 
 Yes, you can concentrate on chains, features, and breaks, but you can also have a lot of fun if 
 you don't worry about any of that stuff. The game's five levels can be breezed through in less 
 than an hour, but it'll take quite a bit longer if you don't use continues, or if you choose the 
 harder option that's available for the last three levels.  

  Rest assured, you won't be done with the game once you've finished the Arcade mode, thanks to online 
 leaderboards and an excellent multiplayer mode that lets two players go head-to-head whether they're 
 sharing a cartridge, each have their own copy of the game, or are online anywhere in the world. 
 The goal in multiplayer is to shoot invaders and be the last player to run out of lives. This is 
 more difficult than in the single-player modes because both you and your opponent can attack one 
 another, sending invaders to the other person's screen by snagging power-ups. Sending any unwanted 
 foes your opponent's way is always a good thing, but given that the top screen displays what's 
 happening on the other person's screen, you can time your attacks for maximum effectiveness. Thanks 
 to a handicapping option and simple, easy-to-learn gameplay, multiplayer mode is a blast.  

           The top screen is usually cluttered with useless gauges, but boss battles and bonus 
 rounds put it to good use.      

  Extreme isn't a great-looking game, but it looks about as good as a Space Invaders game needs to. 
 The invaders retain the simple, blocky look of the original game, and even the bosses employ the 
 same style. In fact, the moving backgrounds -- which are the one area where the developer tried to 
 spice up the presentation -- are the worst part. The moving, shifting blobs and shapes that make 
 up the backgrounds just end up being distracting and only serve as a cheap way of making the game 
 harder. Thankfully, there are options to turn down their brightness or stop them completely.  

 
  Space Invaders Extreme is a very good example of how to update a classic game. The gameplay has 
 been improved, and multiplayer adds a whole new dynamic to the experience. At $20, the price is 
 right for anyone who enjoys fast-paced, arcade-style shooters with a retro twist.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (9 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: AlmightyMax
Rating: 7.5
Date: Dec 10, 2008 9:03 pm PT
Review:  In an industry as young as video gaming, a thirty year anniversary is a huge event. It's hard to 
 believe, but that's just how long it's been since Taito graced arcades worldwide with Space Invaders. 
 To celebrate this achievement, Taito's been polishing and reworking the classic formula, and the 
 fruit of their efforts is Space Invaders Extreme. This modernized Space Invaders isn't the slow, 
 plodding experience the original was; it's lightning-quick, frenetic and possibly the most addictive 
 game the DS has ever seen.
  
  Space Invader's core gameplay remains virtually intact; you control a small cannon, Earth's last 
 line of defense against ever-advancing waves of alien ships. The cannon can move back and forth 
 and can fire straight up with the press of a button. This, however, is where the familiarity ends. 
 There are no longer defense bunkers to protect you from enemy fire, meaning you'll always be out 
 in the open. In return, your cannon is much more agile and just easier to manoeuver overall. 
 
  
  The most important new gameplay element is the Feature Panel, which appears on the right side of 
 the screen. By shooting down the right coloured invaders, you can earn point bonuses or power-ups. 
 Power-ups are earned by shooting down four of the same coloured invaders in a row, and can help 
 substantially in dealing with incoming waves. There are four powerups; Bomb destroys everything 
 in its blast radius, Laser tears through everything it encounters, Broad shoots out five bullets 
 at once, and Shield can block all enemy attacks. Each power is timed, but if you want to hold onto 
 one you can hold either of the shoulder buttons and your cannon will revert back to its original 
 state. If you manage to complete two different Power-up Features in a row, a flashing UFO will 
 fly by. Managing to shoot this down will activate one of the game's many Rounds. These timed Rounds 
 will task you with shooting down a certain number of invaders, and success will allow you to enter 
 Fever Mode. Your cannon is much more powerful in Fever and can easily blow through waves of invaders.
 
  
  Speaking of the invaders, they are much more varied this time around. Apart from colour differences, 
 they all have their own unique attack patterns to watch out for. Some will explode when shot down; 
 others will dive at your ship after taking damage. There's an absolute ton going on at all times; 
 and although this makes the game incredibly fun it's also its weakest point. High-score fiends 
 will have to keep an astute eye on too many meters and gauges to count, and the game does a terrible 
 job of informing you what each does. Most are only briefly mentioned in the instruction manual, 
 leaving most of the game to you to figure out - good luck. 
  
  The single-player Arcade Mode can be beaten in under an hour, but the game offers up an awesome 
 multiplayer mode to make up for it. On the DS, you can play locally with one game card, or online 
 via Nintendo's Wi-Fi service. For the most part the multiplayer plays like the single player, sans 
 the rounds. The goal is to outlast your opponent throughout identical waves of invaders. There's 
 one twist - enemies you destroy can be stocked and then sent at your opponent by shooting down 
 a UFO. Multiplayer gets dangerously competitive after a few short rounds, and you'll invest hours 
 upon hours into it before getting bored of it.
  
  While the invaders are the same pixilated sprites we've come to know and love, Space Invaders Extreme 
 is actually quite a visually busy game. The blocky models are complemented by dynamic 3D backgrounds 
 that always look great. The mix of old-school sprites and new-school backdrops is a sight to behold, 
 although it does sometimes feel like it sacrifices function for form. Too often your eyes will 
 get caught by the backgrounds, and a stray bullet will find its way to your cannon. Thankfully, 
 you do have the option to turn off the 3D backgrounds. The audio front is equally impressive - 
 a couple cool techno riffs are accompanied by impressive Lumines-style musical sound effects. Every 
 time you shoot or destroy an invader an instrument rings out, giving the sound design a delightfully 
 random feel.
  
  Space Invaders Extreme is a fast-paced, stylish shooter that every hardcore DS owner needs to buy. 
 It's probably the best old-school action the system has to offer this side of Contra, and at only 
 twenty bucks, there's no reason not to pick it up. Some minor quirks stop it from becoming a classic, 
 but all in all, this is one hell of a way to celebrate an anniversary. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cjyellowbelt
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jul 23, 2008 11:06 am PT
Review:  Okay, so, it's my second review here, my first review was for Nintendogs: Lab and Friends... So 
 here's my review
  
  Story: 2/10 What story is there? You go around and blow up aliens trying to destroy the earth.
 
  
  Sound/Music : 9.5. The sound and music is awesome, the shot's go along with the music, hitting 
 a sheild gos along with the music, everything, let's face it, makes the already awesome music even 
 better, so it deserves a 9.5
  
  Invader Graphics: 7/10 The invaders are still 8-bit blocks, but they have power-ups too, so that 
 makes them pretty dang cool... and dangerous
  
  Background Graphics: 9.999/10 The background graphics are just plain amazing, they get even better 
 as you progress in the game, but if your not prepared for awesome graphics, they'll end up distracting 
 you from the invaders, which is bad
  
  Power-Ups: 10/10 the power-up's are amazing, the lazer rips through everything exept reflecters, 
 bombs go through everything, and the wide shot's are good for shooting down UFO's that trigger 
 rounds or roulette's
  
  and i'm gonna be lazy and stop here, i might edit my review later, so here's my overall score...
 
  
  9.5/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: shabulia
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jul 23, 2008 1:48 am PT
Review:  Let's be honest here; most game revivals from the golden age of gaming are half-assed remakes with 
 flaky controls and silly graphics. Pac Man has seen its fair share of bad redoes along with Missile 
 Command and Centipede. It's sad to say, but most remakes just don't capture the essence of the 
 original. However the tide may be changing. Space Invaders Extreme is a great way to remake a classic 
 while keeping the elements that made the original so great 30 years ago.
  
  For those of you that need a refresher course, here you are. Space Invaders is one of the first 
 shooters to grace the arcade scene. You control a space ship at the bottom of the screen while 
 the aliens are grouped at the top of the screen. They move from one side of the screen to the other 
 as the slowly descend. They try to shoot you while you try to shoot them. That's it.
  
  All jokes aside, this simple formula really works well in Space Invaders Extreme because the challenge 
 is what keeps the player hooked. This is just like the original game in basics but what sets it 
 apart is the graphic overhaul and the musical element that has been added.
  
  Aliens come in various colors and as you shoot them, you are awarded limited power-up shots for 
 shooting like colored aliens as a group. The background has a wonderful techno flair that keeps 
 the screen alive and adds to the thrill of the action. The music also keeps things exciting with 
 a sort of Rez touch in that when you shoot the enemies, the music reacts in notes that match the 
 rest of the electronica background tunes. It's such a great combination because it keeps things 
 feeling fresh and new without messing with the original formula of Space Invaders.
  
  Why don't you own this game? Most likely it's one that you have seen in stores and have passed 
 up as a bargain bin title. Don't make that mistake. Space Invaders Extreme is a dynamite title 
 that finds its home on the DS. It's a perfect game to just kill a few minutes of time or to play 
 for hours on end trying to up that high score like the arcade games of yesteryear. It's an even 
 more enjoyable game if you can snag a spin paddle controller that plugs into the GBA slot of the 
 DS. As this peripheral was only released in Japan, it might be hard to acquire. But the game controls 
 just fine with the D-pad. Either way, if your DS collection is without this great title, then you're 
 missing out.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: 851368
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jul 16, 2008 10:54 am PT
Review:  I am going to list every thing in order from graphics to gameplay.
  
  
  Graphics: The graphics in Space invaders extreme are very colorful and lively. And the colors just 
 pop out of the screen like never before. From flashy countdowns to heavy weapon upgrades the DS 
 backs up the software requirements perfectly.
  
  Sound: The sound is where this game stands out also. Every time a bullet is shot it makes a sound 
 that goes with the Music of the background. And when you hit an alien it also makes a sound that 
 goes with the music. Powerups do it to and altogether it makes for a rich fun hearing experiance.
 
  
  Gameplay: Now this is where the game really at its core is one of the best space invader game around. 
 Everything you could imagine from the old space invaders is here and is like pumped on steroids. 
 Its very fast paced and you can pick up beam power ups, bomb power ups, and a power up that lets 
 you shoot four shots at a time. And there are also really innovative boss battles that will have 
 you at it for a while. Dont think the game is a walk in the park either. The difficulty is pretty 
 hard when you get to the later levels. The game also supports Wifi so you can post your high scores 
 and go one on one with another space invaders opponent. Its really cool and it is a must have!
 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Spade_Crisis
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jul 6, 2008 8:43 pm PT
Review:  Space Invaders celebrates its 30th years of classic fun. And with Square Enix on there side, who 
 could possibly say that this game is "outdated"
  
  Story-What story is there to tell? You command your battle ship through the amazing designed stages 
 fighting your way through Invaders from Space. How simplier can it get?
  
  Gameplay-As said, you command your ship, collecting power-ups and fighting bosses at the end of 
 each level, through space fighting off the space-infested Invaders. It's really quite satifying, 
 actually.
  
  Graphics-The graphics will REALLY sink in. Just think of it as a nice upgraded version of Space 
 Invaders. The background will catch your eye and you'd pay more attention to it than the gameplay. 
 Enemies and the ships are really old-school, just how we like our Space Invaders.
  
  Music-They added a new feature to this game. While the nice robo/techno music plays, you also have 
 control of the music. Everytime you shoot, you play a sound. Everytime you hit an enemy, you create 
 music. Everytime you hit a shield, you play a drum. Its really cool, and its better you try it 
 yourself.
  
  Multiplayer-Not that you really go up against someone. In WiFi, You just submit your best scores 
 up in the scoreboard.
  
  Flaws-Well, when your in combat with the Invaders, the top screen is really quite useless, with 
 gauges, meters, and whatnot. Multiplayer could've been better if you'd go up against someone in 
 WiFi.
  
  Conclusion-Space Invaders Extreme is really worth it, and worth the bargain. And when they say 
 "extreme," yea there not kidding. So, you want a nice shooter, with a nice touch to the classic, 
 then go pick it up. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: fdtoonsman
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jun 29, 2008 6:32 pm PT
Review:  I don't know anyone who hasn't played good ol' space invaders. It's a piece of classic history. 
 This new version on the DS adds a new twist, with new enemies, items, and provides something new 
 to SI: you'll actually tap your feet to the rhythmic tune it seems to create when you shoot away 
 those invaders. I don't know if it's meant to sound like that- it just does, and it's awesome. 
 I am literally addicted to this sweet game- if I put my DS down for too long, I start to shake 
 and wonder when I'll see my widdle space invadies again... I love this game. Pick it up, or they'll 
 come for you. This game is worth every penny. Another great feature in my opinion is the Multiplayer. 
 It's hard to describe, just pick up the game and find out! Another nice thing about this game is 
 the graphics- it's the most colorful classic remake to date! However, I do have twooooo tiiiinyyy 
 complaints. And I mean tiny. Really tiny. It's short, and the top screen is useless 80% of the 
 time, usually being occupied by meaningless stats. In conclusion, GET. THIS. GAME. Now. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: liukang666
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jun 25, 2008 7:00 am PT
Review:  Remove Phantom Hourglass from your ds after beating it for the 18th time and try out Space Invaders 
 Extreme, the updated version of an awesome old school shooter. Celebrating its 30th birthday, you 
 just can't go wrong. SPE plays very similar to the others, but with a few new things. For one, 
 items come by much better, and are a lot cooler. You have a fire gun that blows up on impact, a 
 shield generator, a spread gun, and my personal favorite, the laser. Also, there a few things to 
 distract you from the fact that you have been playing the same stage 60 times to no success: the 
 roulette, and the round. The roulette is basically a spinning circle of enemies: you shoot one, 
 and you may gain a power, such as life up or the power to freeze the invaders in their tracks. 
 Round is basically a mini-game that charges you with destroying a bunch of enemies. If you win, 
 you get Fever Mode, where you are super powered and gain "jackpots" from floating ufos. Speaking 
 of which, these two modes are obtained by shooting down ufos. Though it may annoy you that the 
 game interrupts its play for this, smashing down a particularly hard legion of invaders with a 
 strong gun more than makes up for it. As for the graphics, they truly bring life into this old 
 arcade hit. Invaders and bosses still are constructed out of 8-bit boxes, while lasers, backgrounds, 
 music, and explosions are all beautifal and neat. This may seem weird at first, but it is sort 
 of interesting when you think about it. The game is quite short, but very hard. When your done, 
 after a few once-and-a-while playthroughs, your really done. Unfortunetly, as oppossed to Contra 
 4, the ultimate anniversery blue-print, this game features nothing but itself. But for 20 bucks, 
 you can enjoy old-school arcade fun in your living room! I'd suggest you get this, whether you 
 burned your dad's money on it 30 years ago, or just want to get a taste of how old games were done 
 right. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Gamakarmica
Rating: 9
Date: Jun 22, 2008 10:32 pm PT
Review:  Many new concepts this generation have taken sway. One of them have been retro remakes: taking 
 games from yesteryear and updating them for today, only in their classic forms. Last year, one 
 of the best games of the year was Pac-Man: Championship Edition. This year, it will no doubt be 
 Space Invaders Extreme.
  
  SIE takes the original Space Invaders theme and doesn't change the core principles: You still are 
 on the bottom of the screen shooting the aliens on the top. However, the enemies are varied in 
 the game by color and by mannerisms. When the invaders start to kamikaze towards you after shooting 
 them, you realize how different from the original this game is.
  
  The power-ups in the game, such as a blue laser beam and bombs, not only add more ways to kill 
 your enemies, it also adds a ton to the challenge of the game itself. A lot of the enemies can 
 have shields that deflect certain shots, which adds to the challenge.
  
  The game also adds UFO's on the top to shoot at that can initiate things like Bonus Rounds and 
 Roulette Wheels. Bonus Rounds are more or less micromini games that have you completing a stated 
 objective, like getting 45 items or shooting down 20 aliens.
  
  If the game sounds alarmingly simple, it is. However, the simplicity and charm of an old-school 
 game goes along way to this game's enjoyment and its replayability. The coux of an old school classic 
 is that the game never really changes, however the challenge and the fun from playing the game 
 outdoes all of that. 
  
  Space Invaders Extreme does that. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: finalcross
Rating: 7
Date: Jun 26, 2008 8:54 am PT
Review:  As a 'younger' or '16-bit Generation' gamer, I never originally played any of the old classic games 
 in their original form. For me, the closest I ever got to playing Space Invaders was an electronic 
 version that had used lights under a stencil of the aliens. It was fun, but extremely simplistic 
 in nature.
  
  To celebrate the 30 year anniversary of the game, Taito has released Space Invaders Extreme on 
 the DS and PSP giving those who played the original a way to 'relive' their young days, and those 
 of us who missed out the original to play a popular arcade game.
  
  The objective of Space Invaders is simple, you control a Space-Fighter who is trying to prevent 
 the on-coming onslaught of Alien Invaders. If they reach the bottom then you die. In Extreme, they 
 take this concept but throw some variations. In the orginal, the enemies simply moved from left 
 to right and slowly downwards with varying speeds. Some levels gave you shield to hide behind but 
 as you progressed the enemies move much more quickly. In this edition, the enemies have varying 
 speeds, paths and attacks giving you plenty of variety in gameplay. Also, with Extreme, now you 
 can get power-ups and bonuses to help you along the way.
  These vary from standard pick-ups (Shields, Bombs, etc...) or if you manage to hit a flashing enemy 
 ship, you enter Extreme Mode.
  
  In Extreme Mode, you are given a time-limit to complete an objective. If you fail, you don't get 
 a bonus, but if you succeed, you enter Fever mode and your attacks last a long time with maximium 
 damage.
  
  This is all part of the game's main mode, called Arcade Mode. Where you go through 5 stages to 
 finish the game. There are varying paths; the first being easy, then branching out until you have 
 the possibility of 5 final stages. The next mode is Ranking, where you play the same stages again, 
 but trying to get the best possible score/ranking. Stage Mode allows you to re-play any of the 
 stages you've already completed.
  
  The game also offers a pretty good mulitplayer option with wireless play or online via Nintendo's 
 Wi-Fi option. There is also the ability to upload your high-scores for others to see.
  
  Overall the game is Fun and for twenty dollars, it's a great deal. The sound for the game is decent 
 for a DS title, but nothing really spectacular. The explosions and shooting work well, but you 
 won't be expecting anything to suprise you. The graphics though are a bit of a let-down on the 
 DS version. If you happen to see a comparison between it and the PSP version, you'll notice that 
 the colors of the enemies and the backgrounds are much more vibrant. It doesn't ruin the game, 
 but it would have been nicer to get something more on the DS. Thankfully, the better Multiplayer 
 options for the DS do make it the better choice between the two, and the fact that it is also 5 
 dollars cheaper than the PSP edition. Also, with the DS version, while played on two screens, you 
 generally are only using the bottom screen. Not a big deal, but instead of using the top screen 
 generally for your score, they could have done a lot more with it.
  While trying to build on the 30th aniversary of the game, they also could have thrown in an emulated 
 version of the original as a bonus. (edit: This might actually be included, but unlocked later 
 on.)
  
  Other than the minor gripe on the graphics, this is still a Good game to play. It's yet another 
 reasonable priced game for the DS that will give you your money's worth. Regardless if you grew 
 up or experienced the original version, there is a lot to offer here, and you'll want to play and 
 challenge your friends to see who can get the highest score. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
