-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Spectrobes: Beyond the Portals
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/ds/rpg/spectrobesii/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 Tons of content.
 Disney D Gamer integration is good for younger players.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 Atrocious camera.
 Rudimentary by-the-book story and dialogue.
 Walking everywhere is boring.
 Too much restarting and grinding.
 Needlessly complex menus.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Nov  4, 2008
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 5
Critic Score: 7.2, 18 Review (s)
User Score: 8.3, 141 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Disney Interactive Studios
Developer: Jupiter Multimedia
Genre: Action Role-Playing
Date: Oct 7, 2008
ESRB: Everyone 10+

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Problems are more plentiful than the collectible monsters in Spectrobes: Beyond the Portals, the 
 epitome of how not to make a Poke-clone. 

  Even if you were a particularly lucky child, you were probably stuck with just a handful of games 
 to play each year growing up. Regardless of their quality, you sucked the games dry in order to 
 drain as much entertainment from them as possible until the next gift-giving holiday rolled around 
 and it was time for a new one to gnaw on. Spectrobes: Beyond the Portals is a good modern example 
 of this, as its meaty content will keep younger players more than busy with plenty to do before 
 (and after) the credits roll. But the end result is a tragically generic action RPG, and the potential 
 of Spectrobes: BTP's sci-fi setting and variety of gameplay options is completely wasted on repetitious, 
 bland objectives, complicated menus and inventory management, and crummy combat.  

           The 3D look is certainly nice, but an unholy camera will ruin every second of Spectrobes: 
 BTP.      

  As returning redheaded hero Rallen, a spunky space cadet with the ability to control and command 
 monsters known as "spectrobes," you'll spend most of your time walking around desolate environments 
 as you take on painfully repetitious missions and have lengthy conversations with an assortment 
 of one-dimensional characters. Your on-foot missions set the stage and push along an initially 
 intriguing story of kidnapped comrades and galactic genocide, but it quickly becomes a paint-by-numbers 
 tale of "find and defeat Mr. Big Bad Man and his cronies." Where the first Spectrobes favored text 
 over tussle, Beyond the Portals adds more button-mashing monster duels to accompany its massive 
 amount of heavy-handed storytelling, but neither is exciting enough to make this action RPG fun. 
 Both conflict and exploration take place in 3D environments, but the scuffles are too short to 
 be intense and the world is too vacant for you to see anything interesting. Add on crummy D pad 
 controls and you'll find yourself spinning circles around areas you're trying to reach or enemies 
 you're attempting to attack.  

  The excavation and exploration elements are what will keep you playing. Using the DS's stylus you'll 
 unearth fossils (which you'll evolve in to upgradeable spectrobes) , minerals (used to feed and 
 level up your collection of critters) , and other items for selling or unlocking in-game awards 
 that are analogous to the Xbox 360's achievements. Digging maintains its addictive quality all 
 the way through, and though you'll suffer through many clunky menus to access your rock-encrusted 
 goodies, it's loads of fun to feed and evolve spectrobes as well as dress Rallen up in awesome 
 new gear that increases his health and power. Since he can also come under fire while running about, 
 you'll need to use his sword, fists, and laser gun to fend off nasty baddies in real time. You'll 
 quickly notice that this second combat system is as annoying as the two-versus-two monster bouts. 
 If you manage to lose a standard scuffle you'll be sent back to the start of the current map.  
 

  It goes from bad to worse when you're returned to the starting area of a planet when defeated by 
 a boss, as it can take up to 10 walking minutes to return to and conclude the battle. When you're 
 forced to grind (meaning to level up your monsters with repeated combat) it becomes a stale, repetitious 
 experience that ultimately fails to pay off. Thankfully, being able to explore and dig, as well 
 as take part in side character Jeena's puzzle minigames from time to time, keeps things mixed up. 

  If you're starting to think that Spectrobes: BTP sounds like a placid Pokemon, you're on the right 
 track. Because it drastically changes the formula it is blatantly inspired by, it becomes more 
 of a frustrating endeavor than the traditional Japanese role-playing fun of Nintendo's monster 
 mash. You'll find yourself yawning as you trek for 10 minutes from one end of a planet to another 
 to have another pointless conversation, with the odd enemy encounter occurring when you approach 
 the tornado-shaped Vortex that contains the evil Krawl creatures.  

           You'll spend too much time walking nowhere and chatting about nothing to enjoy much of 
 anything -- even the combat.      

  Ironically, the coolest thing about Beyond the Portals has little to do with the game itself. Though 
 it offers monster trading and battling between players both online and off, as well as interoperability 
 between both Spectrobes titles, the Disney D Gamer features let you unlock gear like masks and 
 outfits from the game and apply it to your D Gamer avatar. Like a Web-based Nintendo Mii, these 
 cute 3D characters act as your physical representation in the Disney online community. It's cool 
 to see your avatar equipped with Spectrobes-branded gear, and unlocking stacks of items is probably 
 the most rewarding thing about BTP.  

  Spectrobes: Beyond the Portals is a game with too many frustrating restarts and barren 3D worlds 
 occasionally populated with a few lifeless characters who spout worthless dialogue in an attempt 
 to advance the bland story. Other things, such as having to speak or sing into the DS's microphone 
 to awaken uncovered spectrobe fossils, grating sound effects, and a forgettable soundtrack, add 
 to the mediocrity that will only test your patience -- even if you're an easily amused grade-school 
 gamer.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (4 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: desyple
Rating: 6.5
Date: Nov 29, 2008 1:49 pm PT
Review:  This game looks good at first with the visuals but that is one of the only bright spots in this 
 entire game. The bad in this game is many so ill list them. First of all the camera is horrible 
 and annoying, you find yourself wondering around the battle field after you defeat an opponent 
 looking for the other that's also running around in circles. Another con is the fact that you have 
 to run around everywhere. Its so annoying to have to run from place to place completing tasks and 
 sometimes you have to run somewhere just so the person there can tell you to run back to where 
 you were previously. Also if you die it restarts you back at the beginning of the level just so 
 you can run all the way back to the boss which will take forever. The puzzles in the game were alright 
 and a welcomed change to the ho-hum routine of digging and fighting but still some puzzles didn't 
 explain themselves well enough and were a pain in the ass to complete. Another thing i disliked 
 was the fact in order to level up and evolve your spectrobes you had to feed them crystals which 
 wouldn't have been a problem if you didn't have to dig them out which can get very boring and monotonous 
 after a while. The story itself is very generic and linear where you are simply searching for the 
 main enemy while defeating his lackeys. There is barely any character development and you the player 
 barely connect to the characters and see their individual personality's. The controls themselves 
 are mediocre. they work for some parts of the game but not for all. IN the game you battle both 
 as rallen and the spectrobes so it can both be fun and annoying at times. The pros of the game 
 are the many different spectrobes you can collect and raise. They are very creative and unique. 
 Another pro is simply the ending. the ending alone was the best part. Also the fact that you can 
 trade items and spectrobes from the first game to this one is very useful as well. The main pro 
 for the whole game is the wifi multiplayer. you can buy, battle and download spectrobes whenever 
 you want. They have a very effective way of dlc. They distribute 10 dl points every Friday for 
 free to download content that is powered up and special only available online. Also the integration 
 of Disney d gamer as a chat room of sorts works well also. The farther you progress in the story 
 the more items you receive to customize you d gamer avatar so this is a pro as well. The graphics 
 and visuals are also decent at best but the horrible controls and camera really take away from 
 that. All in all this game is decent at best with few bright spots and many dark spots. Just wait 
 for Pokemon platinum if you're looking for a creature raising/battling game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: WhiteLion130
Rating: 1
Date: Nov 27, 2008 1:41 am PT
Review:  Spectrobes Beyond the Portals.
  The first game was so different never before (at the time) had i ever played a game like that one 
 and it had a basic storyline of the krawl and all of that but now that story line is really wierd 
 and they do it in a wierd baby way.
  
  
  So i got this game from japan very early on and i looked at it and i thought why not, i did like 
 the first one. so i get it open start playing and... IT SUCK and it was so bad i havent even finished 
 the last level.
  
  
  They have changed the battle system, now your proberly thinking thank god but now the battle system 
 is to basic and its just boring and it is sooooooooooooo easy to get hit but not to worry because 
 the enemys are really weak.
  
  
  and now they have done all this stuff on making all the elements have weaknesses with another one 
 and my god is it a anoying having to constantly switch your dudes around.
  
  
  Bottum Line DONT GET THIS GAME EVEN IF IT IS FOR 5$
  
  Peace
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Egamer15
Rating: 6
Date: Nov 5, 2008 2:52 pm PT
Review:  When Spectrobes first came out, I decided I would wait to get the sequel because of the generally 
 bad reviews the game recieved. A year later, I decided that I would trade three of my Nintendo 
 DS games that I didn't like to Gamestop, and with the money I got, I decided to buy Spectrobes: 
 Beyond the Portals. Big mistake. Although Spectrobes: BTP tries to copy pokemon, it ends up being 
 like a combination of pokemon and final fantasy, which results in a kid/adult soryline, impressive 
 3-D/cartoony visuals, and collecting monsters that look like a pokemon and a final fantasy creature 
 combined. It's actually kind of impressive how it seems that the developers were actually trying 
 to merge both games together (which I don't think they were) and met with some success. You might 
 think that these two genres merging together would seem like an excellent idea, but unfortunately 
 the good outwieghs the bad. The bad being that the monsters in the game are few and far between 
 and sometimes the game forces you to use a particular monster. It limits the sense of (for lack 
 of another word) bonding that you might get in a pokemon game with your creature. It is also extremely 
 easy and monotonous to evolve your creature. It also drags in the game to walk places with Rallen, 
 the main character. He is really slow, the camera is bad, and the environments are bland and empty, 
 despite the amazing visuals. The game hits a few right notes though, and one is with the combat. 
 The combat is pretty fun at first, since you actually have control of your spectrobes in battle. 
 Unfortunately, you will have to battle the same creatures a lot and your creature only has one 
 attack. It might have really increased the replay value of the game if your spectrobes had more 
 of a variety of things to do. The other good thing is the Dgamer community. It's very kid friendly, 
 but it is really exciting to finally chat on wi-fi for the first time in a DS game. Overall, spectrobes: 
 BTP failed to capture my attention for long, and ironically, might be the next game I trade in 
 at Gamestop. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ChibiStewie
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 9, 2008 4:55 pm PT
Review:  ok first of all id like to say that i got this just a while ago and so far its been awesome. You 
 can FINALLY play as spectrobes but at the cost of hat rallen is no longer in the fights BUT he 
 gains exp by fighting monsters outside ofspectrobes battles that you fight on the field. another 
 great thing about this game is that you can transfer your spectrobes from the 1st game into this 
 1! (so if you just wana go through it super fast or maybe your stuck on something you can take 
 1 of your lvl 100s and put them in XD. now i havent gotten 2 far but theyve also given us another 
 treat. You can revive spectrobes in battle! (at the cost of some of the reviving spectrobes hp 
 though) and as for the incubator ALSO great knows you can finally feed them and train and take 
 care of them from wherever you are with the primzod! (the menu) and if im correct there were 3 
 incubators and now theres 4 ^_^! well thats pretty much it as well as they brought back all the 
 spectrobes apparently AND added some new spectrobes ^_^ im not very far so no spoilers.... but none-the-less 
 Spectrobes 2: Beyond The Portals is a AWESOME GAME and 1 last thing about exchanging spectrobes 
 into Beyond The Portals.... i havent tried it yet but im thinking u may need 2 nintendo DS`s definetly 
 better than the first spectrobes. (and for the wi-fi apparently u can go as a guest and fight people 
 online or if you have a DGamer account you can use that....) well this was DEFINETLY worth 30 bucks 
 (50 if you got the guide  _  like me) so give spectrobes Beyond The Portals a try! ( and do it 
 fast before kids learn that this is out because if i remember correctly when spectrobes 1 came 
 out it was like kids crack) see you on Wi-Fi ^_^ 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
