-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Spectrobes
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/ds/rpg/spectrobes/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 Hunting around for fossils and minerals is initially kind of fun.
 Uses the DS's dual screens to good effect.
 Pretty good soundtrack.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 Hunting around for fossils and minerals quickly becomes monotonous.
 Brain-dead characters and by-the-numbers storyline.
 Overpowered battle mechanic trivializes what little combat there is.
 Barren, empty environments.
 Several sound effects are extremely grating.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Mar 14, 2007
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 6
Critic Score: 6.4, 39 Review (s)
User Score: 7.5, 697 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Disney Interactive Studios
Developer: Jupiter Corp
Genre: Action Role-Playing
Date: Mar 6, 2007
ESRB: Everyone

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
As a scavenger sim Spectrobes absolutely succeeds, but scouring every inch of planet after digital 
 planet will quickly wear thin for most people. 

  Billed as Disney's first original video game-only intellectual property, Spectrobes has been brewing 
 for several months now as a series of short, full-CG animated webisodes, which can be found on 
 Disney's Web site or your local video-sharing site. Each of the six episodes is about two minutes 
 long -- you can go check them out now, we'll wait. Perhaps indicative of Mickey's plunge from Steamboat 
 Willie to the glamorized little rodent he is today, and as you'll plainly observe from the webisodes, 
 Spectrobes lacks the charm you'd expect from a game built around collecting and fighting with cute 
 and/or imposing creatures. Further, the painfully tedious task of searching out these creatures, 
 coupled with the different, though ultimately cumbersome, battle system and the unimaginative story, 
 means Spectrobes is mostly just a boring game.  

          There are a lot of empty areas to explore.     

  From a company that once prided itself 
 on creative, imaginative characters, Spectrobes packs a remarkably sterile and dispassionate story. 
 You play as Gallen, a young, and therefore brash, space cadet who's apparently a fan of monkey 
 business. Your partner is Jeena, a smart and by-the-book straight shooter who regularly encourages 
 Gallen to refrain from said monkey business. There's also a gruff old commander, who occasionally 
 chastises Gallen for engaging in the monkey business, and a sagacious yet mysterious advisor known 
 as Aldous, who, as it turns out, doesn't seem to have an opinion on Gallen's monkey business. On 
 a routine mission, Gallen and Jenna discover an unconscious Aldous in an escape capsule, and after 
 reviving him, they find out that he is the sole survivor of a long-dead solar system that was destroyed 
 by the planet-devouring Krawl. The Krawl are now knocking down your system's front door, and as 
 fate would have it, Gallen alone is capable of commanding the only creatures able to harm the Krawl, 
 these creatures of course being the spectrobes. Unfortunately, the entire spectrobe race is in 
 a state of fossilized hibernation, buried deep underground in the various planets of your solar 
 system. Thus, it is your mission to find, awaken, and train the spectrobes, and then use them to 
 eradicate the dervish Krawl hordes.  

  It's a stereotypical setup for sure, and it's only made worse by the context in which it's told. 
 The dialogue between characters comes off as very formulaic, and the occasional attempts at personality 
 seem to be waiting for a laugh track to cue up. Also, the character stills that accompany the dialogue 
 aren't emotive or expressive in any way. Despite being vibrantly colorful, the spectrobes lack 
 distinction, being neither Pokmon cute nor Transformers cool. Likewise, the environments you'll 
 traverse all feel barren and devoid of life, mostly because the only things you'll encounter are 
 the twirling Krawl vortexes and the occasional large stone. Cities have a few random inhabitants, 
 who stand around spouting out typical RPG rubbish ("Boy, when I grow up, I want to be a hero just 
 like you!") , and since you only ever need a few services from any given city, they feel empty and 
 entirely too large. The Nintendo DS displays your surroundings on both of its screens, so you do 
 at least have a wide field of view that really captures the nothingness all about you.  

  As for the gameplay, well, have you ever gone to the beach and stared at that one guy wearing hiking 
 boots, tube socks pulled up midcalf, 1980s-style jean shorts, and huge, conical headphones, who's 
 carrying a DIY-looking metal detector and tugging a small, red wagon to haul his horde of loot? 
 Well, if you feel some special kinship with that dude, or you  are  that dude, then the vast majority 
 of Spectrobes' gameplay may appeal to you. Key to the story is that the spectrobe population in 
 its entirety lies dormant and buried, and the only way to defeat the Krawl infestation is to find 
 and awaken these critters and then feed them precious stones, which you also need to find. Only 
 baby spectrobes are able to detect fossilized spectrobes and minerals, and you'll use the one that 
 initially follows you around by pressing on it with your stylus. The rub here is that the circumference 
 on your search is quite small, so as long as you're interested in collecting these items, you have 
 to slowly and methodically work your way across the sparse, empty environments. There's a sense 
 of pleasure that accompanies all treasure-finding expeditions, but the problem here is that it's 
 hard to get excited after unearthing the same fossil or mineral for the umpteenth time.  

  Once you've found a fossilized spectrobe and some minerals, you take the spectrobe back to the 
 ship to awaken and evolve it. If you're even remotely interested in appearing like a normal, well-adjusted 
 human being, you can finagle blowing into the microphone to awaken the critters (yes, this is the 
 option that makes you appear normal) . However, blowing won't always cut it, so you'll occasionally 
 have to resort to the developer's intended method of hitting the right sound volume with your voice. 
 This method can be all kinds of embarrassing, and it really hampers Spectrobes' on-the-go portability. 
 Once you've awoken your spectrobe, you can either use it to find other spectrobes or stick it in 
 your incubator with some minerals so it will evolve. Spectrobes are capable of progressing into 
 an adult and evolved form, which is accompanied by an appearance change as well as increased attack, 
 defense, and hit-point levels. The incubator also features one of the most annoying and persistent 
 sound effects in existence, sounding a bit like when you force air from out of your cheek -- over 
 and over again. In fact, the game features several ridiculously annoying sound effects that just 
 don't stop, and they're a serious detriment to the otherwise quite nice soundtrack.  

  Occasionally you will need to fight the Krawl, though the battling definitely plays second fiddle 
 to the scavenging. There's a sense that the developer, Jupiter, wanted to do something different 
 with the battle mechanic, and while it's more complex, it's not particularly strategic or engaging. 
 Upon being sucked up by a Krawl whirlwind, you and two of your spectrobes square off against three 
 Krawl in an enclosed space. Your battle formation resembles a weird kind of foosball line, where 
 you are flanked by the two spectrobes and everyone moves concurrently with one another. The reason 
 for this rigid structure is that you'll control both spectrobes and yourself with just the one 
 D pad, using the right shoulder button to attack with your right spectrobe and the left shoulder 
 button to attack with your left. Gallen himself also has an attack, which you can use by hitting 
 X, but regardless of the weapon he has equipped, his attacks are mostly ineffective.  

  Each spectrobe has a different attack, so you can use some strategy in trying to pair, for example, 
 a close-range area-of-effect attacker with a long-range, straightforward attacker, but any kind 
 of strategy you could conceivably come up with is nullified by your CH, or charge, attacks. By 
 holding the A button, Gallen can charge up his CH meter, and once it's full, you can hit both shoulder 
 buttons to unleash a fairly powerful and unavoidable attack that hits every enemy onscreen, while 
 treating you to a pretty cool-looking attack animation. It's a slightly slower, though very effective, 
 strategy, and it pretty much trivializes every single battle encounter in the game. What's more, 
 this attack is as powerful with adult spectrobes as it is with evolved ones, so not only is every 
 other battle nuance rendered meaningless, but the entire evolution mechanic is as well, save from 
 a strictly aesthetic standpoint.  

          Frankly, neither can I.     

  Aside from the fossils and minerals, you'll occasionally find a cube that will make Aldous giddy 
 with excitement if you give it to him. You probably won't share his enthusiasm, however, as these 
 cubes primarily just give you information that is readily accessible in the game's quite thick 
 manual. Some of these cubes are useful, though, in that they enhance your lab equipment, and you'll 
 also need to find certain ones to open up the game's online functionality. Though the game doesn't 
 feature online battles, you can trade spectrobes or go head-to-head against a friend's lineup locally. 
 Additionally, packed in with the cart are special hologram-style cards that you can input into 
 your spectrobe collection once you find the appropriate cube, and you can also download a certain 
 number of extras per week using Nintendo's WFC service, again, once you've found the appropriate 
 cube. These features are actually pretty neat, and the cubes are prevalent enough that you'll be 
 able to unlock them fairly easily.  

  Spectrobes feels as if it were devised in a boardroom by people more interested in turning a profit 
 than making a game. From its marketing-centric webisodes to its canned story to its unremarkable 
 gameplay, it's an extremely blas experience all around and quite noticeably lacks any form of 
 a creative spark, which you'd really expect to be present in this type of game. What you're left 
 with is a game that desperately wants to be your friend, but lacks enough redeeming qualities for 
 you to really take interest.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (72 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: supergt1
Rating: 7.5
Date: Apr 5, 2009 6:47 pm PT
Review:  This is my review of the game: Spectrobes
  
  Read the information below to see what I think about different kind of rating.
  
  Graphic (6 
 out of 10) Graphic is not good. It isn't horrible but the graphic is not
  good. If you don't like bad graphic games you should not buy this game. But make sure you read my 
 review first. Maybe there are some parts you might like about this game.
  
  Price (8 out of 10) The price I say.. not bad for some fun game like this. But they should have more 
 thought about the price of this game. Anyway what matters
  is the fun of the game right?
  
  The Fun of the Game (7.5 out of 10) This game lets you create your own monsters and dig fossils 
 and lots of other stuff. But the only thing is that
  the graphic may bother you and the storyline is very boring and confusing.
  
  Anyway, that 
 was my review of the game: Spectrobes 
::::::

::::::
UserName: The_OmegaHunter
Rating: 7.5
Date: Nov 24, 2008 6:27 pm PT
Review:  Spectrobes 
  
  Sound: I really liked the music in Spectrobes. Even if it was a little bit childish, I still liked 
 it.
  
  Gameplay: In spectrobes you play the roll of NPP officer Rallen with his trusty sidekick Jeena. 
 While on patrol you discover a man sealed inside a space pod that just crash landed on the planet. 
 He reveals to you that you can resurrect ancient creatures called Spectrobes from old fossils, 
 and that you must use them in battle against the evil Krawl to save your galaxy. Throughout the 
 game you'll dig up and discover new spectrobes feeding them minerals to level them up. I found 
 that digging up mineral after mineral gets REALLY repetitive fast! But its fun discovering different 
 cool new spectrobes. 
  
  Graphics: the graphics are not that good, the Spectrobes you see in the database look really awesome 
 though, as well as the intro-video and cut-scene ( there's only one.... really )
  
  Overall: Spectrobes is a fun game that deserves more respect then Gamespot gave it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TeenGamer92
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 22, 2008 10:07 am PT
Review:  When I first saw Spectrobes on a commercial, I thought it'd be an okay game, but not one worth 
 buying. Then, Beyond the Portal came out. I thought that if a second game was made, that the first 
 had to be pretty good. And it was! I've always liked excavating things, like those little clay 
 pyramids that you get in a museum gift shop that let you dig up little fake treasures. With Spectrobes, 
 it's even better! You can dig up Spectrobes in their fossil forms, minerals to feed and power up 
 the Spectrobes, and Cubes that unlock information and special features in the game, like Wi-Fi 
 connection. Anyways, in Spectrobes, you play as Rallen, a Planetary patrol officer with his partner 
 Geena, who soon discover that there's more behind the strange happenings that have been... well 
 happening. They find a man named Albus who explains the Spectrobes to them, along with the strange 
 black vortexes that carry the evil creatures known as the Krawl. You must beat down every Krawl 
 necessary with the help of a variety of Spectrobes to work your way towards the Krawl leader. This 
 game is very straight forward, and leaned towards my sense of interest. If you're a fan of Disney 
 Interactive games, I recommend picking up Spectrobes! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: andrewgerbasi
Rating: 3.5
Date: Nov 7, 2008 11:07 am PT
Review:  good advice dont go anywwhere near the series the concept seemed cool like a year ago but its not 
 and i returned it within a couple weeks the graphics sucked pretty bad the battling in like no 
 other (in a really bad way from my point of view) the game was at an overprised 30 bucks at a month 
 after it came out plus all the "summoning spectobes" or whatever they said got old after about 
 an hour into the game i guess it was sorta easy most of the way thru but i didnt even find out 
 if it ever got hard because i hated playing it sooo much so do yourelf a favor unless ur like 9 
 years old dont buy it the music is also stupid for any kid my age at all (around 14) all the spectrobes 
 arent all that differant they all seem to similar. and from what i remember the main character 
 cant do much attacking anyway. some of the featurs that were supposed to be "special" like digging 
 and online play were dissapointing. the diggin was a huge waste of time and made the game even 
 worse bause the creators tried to push the gameplay hours which is a sign of a horrible game. some 
 of the other features i just didnt get 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Jamez634
Rating: 5
Date: Oct 11, 2008 10:22 pm PT
Review:  Spectrobes are the dinosaurs to us. Everyone thinks they are extinct except for a Spectrobes master 
 who is some sort of Patrol Officer. So I take my place as the patrol officer who just can't run 
 properly. Gameplay is just so wonky. I can't seem to go diagonal and I just can't slow down. Camera 
 angle is facing the top of his head which makes it feel really weird.
  Battle is even worse. I can't escape doing it. I try not to run into these stupid tornadoes but 
 they just come up to me and suddenly I'm sucked into this little battle of me and my spectrobes 
 onto some evil spectrobes. The gameplay for battle is just plain dumb. The only way I can control 
 my spectrobes is the R and L buttons. L for my left hand Sepctrobe, R for my right. I just move 
 them into place with the arrows and it seems just so stiff. But there is an up to it. You can get 
 special powers for your spectrobes which make them begin some awesome powers in some awesome cutscenes... 
 
  That's another good thing. The cutscenes. They have awesome 3-D graphics! They were just so awesome 
 that I knew the game would be great! But it wasn't. They almost trick you.
  Music is a bit annoying. I just felt an erge to trun the sound off.
  Enviroments are alright 
 but making that the only thing on the top screen is just weird. Basiaclly everything is done on 
 the bottom screen.
  Multiplayer is alright. I've never done it but I think you can trade Spectrobes with other players 
 and battle with them, but don't take my word for it.
  Look, if your looking into Spectrobes I would wait until the sequel comes out (I am!) or otherwise 
 you'll have no fun at all with this game, especially if you've got no one to verse on it with.
 
  
  STORY ----------7
  GAMEPLAY -------3
  SOUND ----------4
  GRAPHICS -------7
  MULTIPLAYER ---N/A
  OVERALL --------5
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: MetaKnight50
Rating: 7
Date: Oct 7, 2008 4:13 pm PT
Review:  The game isnt all that great nor is it all that boring either. the main problem with the game is 
 this: PUT MORE MONSTERS IN!!!. There are 22 different spiecies with 3 forms each, thats 66 monsters 
 all together. Oh come on, disney, you can do better than that. you already stole the concept gaming 
 from pokemon, why not bring the same number of monsters?, which brings me to my next point.
  Here is a lesson for everybody reading: ALL GAMES HAVE AN ORGIN. if u put it like that, almost 
 all rpg games are like pokemon (at least the ones with monsters) .
  You cant say "Spectrobes is a rip-off of pokemon without a good reason. You wanna see a bigger 
 rip-off of pokemon, look DQM joker (even though it is a better game than this) . In this game you 
 dig them up, in DQM you be-friend them. in this game there is different combat controls. In DQM 
 you just tell your team what to do, in this game you use L and R buttons.
  So before crticising one rpg, you might as well criticise all of them. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: darklink33107
Rating: 7
Date: Sep 29, 2008 5:51 pm PT
Review:  This game is "o. k" its nothing groundbreakingly fun but it will satisfy you for a while.
  
  Graphics: 6.5/10
  
  The graphics are what you'd expect from a standard DS game except slightly 
 worse in some moments. Some of the pictures of your spectrobes look cool even with their blocky 
 nature. Don't expect anything "amazing" from the graphics section of this game.
  
  Music: 7.5/10
  
  The music is one of the better things in this basic game. The sound effects 
 aren't. With decent music throughout most of the game it's something i don't mind. But the god 
 awful sound effects its a horror to even put up the volume. I would advise saving your battery 
 and keep the sound off during this game.
  
  Gameplay: 7.5/10
  
  The overall gameplay of this game is the only reason i beat it. Even with the bad story line the 
 mineral finding and digging isn't bad. Its also fun seeing what your spectrobes evolve into when 
 they level up. The difficulty of this game is very easy but you need to have the highest level 
 characters to beat the final boss, even though it doesn't take long to get there with A and A+ 
 minerals.
  
  My overall rating for this game is 7/10. (this is only my second review so please don't be to harsh) 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SSBFan12
Rating: 5
Date: Sep 21, 2008 2:07 pm PT
Review:  IN this game you are a kid that is working with a squad and you use these monsters to attack other 
 monsters. You can level up the monsters by versusing alot of other monsters or using these items 
 that can raise up your monsters stats. It is like pokemon but there are no tall grasses and you 
 can see the monsters come towards you and it is like the camera angle of the pokemon games. Really 
 the main point of the game is trying to save the universe from the dark monsters. The game is very 
 boring. The places that you go to in the game are well designed. The game is just like a copy off 
 from Pokemon. But the sound of effect is pretty good.
  
  The good of the game is that the creatures are well designed. The sound of effects are verying 
 awesome.
  
  The bad of the game is that the game is a copy off from Pokemon. The camera angle sometimes shift 
 and makes the game harder.
  
  Overall this game is not really enjoyable so don't get the game I give this game a 5.0 outta 10. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: korino55
Rating: 5
Date: Aug 13, 2008 6:18 pm PT
Review:  I got it in a bundle when buying my DS Lite. I picked it up and played it for about 20 minutes 
 (I know, I'm going to play it more soon) . The story line was old and plain, but O. k. The controlls 
 were good, and the art was done well.
  The bad? 
  So far, all of the characters ("monsters") are nearly the same, save for some colors. At first, 
 finding and extracting fossils was confusing, and is still really boring - especially when your 
 little pinyatamon has a range of three. Then when you have the fossils you take them back to the 
 ship and zap em to life. 
  Along the way of your fossil journy are little black hurricanes (which I've just started to avoid) 
 that follow you until they catch you. Then you get to do a boring and jumbled battle with your 
 pinyatamons. 
  That's all I got out of a rough 20 minutes
  (I personally don't like Disny games, and think they should just stick to their movies.)
  At 
 least rent the game first 
::::::

::::::
UserName: F-Gohan
Rating: 8
Date: Aug 12, 2008 9:56 am PT
Review:  Spectrobes is like a cross between pokemon and Legend of Zelda. You raise monsters and fight badguys 
 which is always fun. My main complaints is there is just too much dialouge to read so i end up 
 clicking through it and then i don't know what to do or where to gois fun but looking for a place 
 to dig gets boring very fast. The monsters are cool and completly original. They start off cute (like 
 Pokemon) , Evolve and look alittle scary (like pokemon) and then they finish evolving and look pretty 
 darn odd and well creepy (not like Pokemon) . There are times when i get lost and don't know where 
 i'm going and that girl Jenna can get annoying. Interupting you while you're trying to figure out 
 where to go and then sometimes she tells you something you already know. Just like the other Aldous 
 and his cubes. The information from those cubes are things i already know about. The enemies get 
 repeative and you rarely see change. but overall its and its an original kind of game.
  
  I give it an 7.9 out of 10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Myviewing
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jul 19, 2008 3:06 pm PT
Review:  When Pokemon debuted on the Gameboy, many were blown away by the impact in gaming it had. It played 
 as an RPG, but instead of traversing the world and slaying monsters, it was your job to capture 
 them. Even beyond that, your job was to raise them and face other trainers until you are eventually 
 the all-coveted "Pokemon Master".
  
  Fast-forward 13 years, and things have come quite a way. Many companies and developers have all 
 made efforts to create their own success story based on the idea of raising monsters. Some turning 
 out good (Digimon) , some turning out bad (Duel Masters) and some just fell into obscurity because 
 they couldn't develop the same hype levels Pokemon could (Metal Walker) . 
  
  Recently in this generation of gaming though, there has been a fairly successful attempt to begin 
 a new monster franchise brought to you by Disney Interactive Studios (Yes, something from Disney 
 that's NOT a half-hearted sequel) . They have brought the title "Spectrobes" to a DS near you. Instead 
 of being a typical Pokemon clone though, it is actually a title that tries to go beyond such description. 
 In a matter like Star Ocean, it is possible for your character to move from planet to planet across 
 the galaxy, and instead of capturing the critters, your job is to resurrect them from their fossil 
 form. Sounds enticing doesn't it? But does Spectrobes manage to reach the heights it aims for?
 
  
  In terms of story, Spectrobes does not have much to offer since it plays very much like a typical 
 5th generation RPG. The story is as follows: You play as a young, ambitious Planetary Patrol officer 
 named Rallen whose character design looks totally ripped off of Edward Elric. His partner is Jeena 
 who serves as a communications and research specialist who is in a like/hate relationship with 
 Rallen. They're on a routine mission one day and receive a distress signal on a nearby planet. 
 When Rallen investigates, he finds a strange device attachable to his arm called a "Prizmod", and 
 an old man named Aldous who has been in cryogenic sleep. Rallen has an encounter with a Black Vortex 
 and learns how to use the "Spectrobes" against the evil creatures Aldous calls the "Krawl". Aldous 
 then explains to the two how to face the Krawl using the critters Rallen has found. After that, 
 you must set off on your quest to defeat the Krawl with your Specrtobes, or the Krawl will devour 
 the Universe. 
  
  The plot may be a step up from Pokemon, but as a general RPG, it doesn't amount to much. This is 
 made even worse since there's no character development, no plot twists, and no gimmicks to try 
 and separate itself from the typical plotline. Of course the plot's aimed towards a younger audience, 
 so there's not much to expect.
  
  As far as graphics go, Spectrobes does a fairly good job of showing what the DS is capable of doing. 
 The character models are fluid and well detailed, and the maps are just as well detailed despite 
 some areas not having much. There's pretty much no slowdown to speak of even when the graphics 
 are pushed to their highest with the battles. The only part of the graphics that doesn't shine 
 are the stills in the cutscenes. The stills display the dialogue characters are saying in simple 
 text bubbles, and the models, even though decently drawn, keep the cutscenes from feeling immersive. 
 
  
  In the sound department, Spectrobes manages to get the job done, but it's nothing memorable. The 
 music is atmospheric and provides the right feel at the right time, but the only song that could 
 possibly be worth noting is the song inside the spaceship. The rest of the music is pretty forgetable 
 and nothing you'll be humming to yourself. As for sound effects, Spectrobes conveys a pretty good 
 presentation. There are some creatures that make various screams and grunts to make themselves 
 sound real, though some of these sounds may get annoying for some if they hear them too often. 
 There's no voice acting to speak of either, even though the voice actors in the webisodes were 
 decent enough, but they didn't make any appearance here. When the discussion is moved to overall 
 gameplay, the presentation of Spectrobes can be a hit or miss for most people. There is a very 
 high amount of things to do in Spectrobes to make sure players won't do one thing for very long. 
 
  
  Most of the game revolves around excavating fossils and minerals by traveling to a planet and looking 
 for objects in the ground to dig up via touching your baby spectrobe with the stylus. Items under 
 the ground are found by touching sparkling dots, which brings players to the digging portion of 
 the game. The touch screen is used for these parts, as players use the stylus to carefully clear 
 away rocks and dirt to get to the fossil or mineral. There's an amount of realism in the process, 
 especially with things like blowing in the microphone to clear away dust from the fossils. 
  The fossil digging can be fun, though all a part of progressing into the more active parts of the 
 game. The fossils that players dig up can be taken to the lab so they can be "awaken" by bringing 
 the fossil to the room and speaking into the microphone. After that is complete, the spectrobe 
 lives again. There are over 60 different Spectrobes, and they're broken up into three types. Each 
 type is weaker or stronger against the other, though it doesn't really come into effect much. 
 
  
  The minerals that players dig up are used to feed the Spectrobes and raise their stats while they're 
 in the Incubator that stores the unused spectrobes and newly awoken baby spectrobes can evolve 
 into their adult form over time. In these areas, players can pet the spectrobes, and feed them 
 minerals. Even though getting minerals is necessary to strengthen your spectrobes, it can get rather 
 repetitive finding all these minerals, going back to their ship, loading Spectrobes into the Incubator, 
 feed them, wait for them to evolve, and then continue. The lack of depth doesn't make this area 
 much fun.
  
  The third object found through digging are data cubes, which need to be found if players want to 
 unlock all the game has to offer. It's a great way to space out the gameplay elements for new players, 
 but it can be quite a chore to find them. Searching all over the maps gets old pretty quick. Most 
 cubes have multiple versions lying around, so it's not possible to miss any. The cubes that offer 
 information about battling or feeding aren't worth much, but some open up new things like the Wifi 
 access, multiplayer, and an intriguing card system.
  
  Each case comes with a few clear plastic cards that have seven little holes in them. To use them, 
 players push the stylus through holes to enter in codes on the touch screen. The cards can unlock 
 special Spectrobes, or custom parts to enhance player's current monsters and make them better suited 
 for battling.
  
  Of course, what good are battling monsters without battles right? Running into the black vortexs 
 that contain the Krawl activates battles. The battles are more action RPG style, with the attacks 
 based on a timer, similar to Final Fantasy XII. Rallen issues commands to his Spectrobes, who have 
 a basic attack (L or R for respective side) , a special attack (holding the A button, charging, 
 then picking the spectrobe to do so) , and a combo attack (holding the A button, charging, then 
 pressing L and R at the same time) .
  Rallen can have up to six Spectrobes in his party, though only two can battle. The other four monsters 
 offer support by way of stat boosting or any fall in battle. Each Spectrobe can help (or hinder) 
 in certain categories, like attack power, defense and speed. By having the right monsters in the 
 support boxes, players can make their fighting spectrobes just a little bit stronger. 
  
  Despite all of these features, the battles in Spectrobes are extremely simple, mostly due to unintelligent 
 enemy AI. It can be easy for players to simply outmaneuver the Krawl while building up the special 
 meter and then attacking the bad guys with the combo moves. Watching Rallen's allies attack in 
 the wrong direction can become frustrating, and it's not uncommon for the enemies to gang up and 
 kill a spectrobe pretty quick if players aren't moving around. Once players get a handle on it, 
 the fights are just too easy to be fun. 
  
  Besides the battles, the entire game itself is easy. There are few puzzles to be found, and most 
 of the missions simply involve talking to an NPC, and then killing a boss. Players are often told 
 exactly where to go, and the maps are very linear so it's not easy to get lost. The only challenge 
 comes in finding the necessary cubes and minerals, which is more of a matter of patience than skill.
 
  
  In the end, the gameplay in Spectrobes is certainly ambitious and intriguing to say the least, 
 but the ease may put off some players due to repitition, linear maps, and imperfect battle mechanics. 
 Despite the criticism that Spectrobes got for its simplicity, Disney has recently announced that 
 a sequel is in production right now. Perhaps Spectrobes is meant to serve as a founding block for 
 a new franchise to make way for even greater adventures in the future (ala Street Fighter, Killzone, 
 the early Final Fantasys) . The potential of Spectrobes is high to say the least, and with a few 
 tweaks such as better challenge, less repetition, and possibly a better story, Spectrobes could 
 become the next successor to Pokemon some were hoping for. 
  
  As it stands now, is this title itself worth getting? It really depends on what you're looking 
 for. If you don't care for repetition or weak story telling, Spectrobes isn't your next RPG fix. 
 But if you like giving new ideas a chance, want to try something different from the typical Pokemon 
 clone, or you just want a DS title by Disney that isn't a complete shovelware title, Spectrobes 
 might be worth a look.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: curse-seal
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jul 15, 2008 10:08 am PT
Review:  Spectrobes has a nice storyline but its pretty lame after you beat it. There's not enough action 
 either and the conversations are really boring. The digging of fossils is fun at first but it too 
 gets very old. There's also not enough boss fights. The graphics are great but they don't have 
 enough people or places. Most of the planets have 15 people or less. The only planet that has more 
 is Kollin because there are about 20 police in the NPP headquarters. Plus the landscape is all 
 empty and could use some interesting landforms and LOTS MORE TREES! Theres only one in the whole 
 solar system the last time i checked! There's not much replay value but its still pretty good considering 
 I got it for $9.95 in the value basket at Wal-Mart which contains the lamest games ever invented. 
 Its worth it if you get it cheap but its a total rip if you spent $30 on it. Hopefully, the second 
 game will be an improvement. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: EmeraldNelaj
Rating: 7
Date: Apr 1, 2008 2:57 pm PT
Review:  Spectrobes is a vertual DS game where you are a teenager named Rallen and his somewhat bestfriend 
 named Jeena. I think that that spectrobes is a game for kids of ages 10 to 16 at least and it should 
 of had more backround graphics. Spectrobes' aliens/mosters are really helpful in the gam and the 
 3-headed fish/dragon thing i personaly think is a great spectrobe to have in scouting for minerals 
 and spectrobes. Also one more thing I would like to add is that there should be a mechine to tell 
 you what stats you needc to have for that spectrobe to evolve into adult or in more cases evolved 
 form. (for more spectrobe details got to http: www. spectrobes. com) and click on lab for a check -list 
 or something on spectrobe capture. If you have any questions for spectobes eveolving almost any 
 cheat, FAQ, or Walkthrough will help me beacuse it gives you more information that any other place. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bluej33
Rating: 4.5
Date: Mar 9, 2008 5:57 am PT
Review:  Pokemon, being one of the most popular video game franchises known to man, has inspired countless 
 spin-offs and knock-offs, most of which are absolutely no good. And now Disney, notorious for developing 
 terrible licensed games based off their latest (and usually not-so-greatest) film, has a go and 
 their own monster collection video game. And while it actually had the potential to be quite good, 
 a number of problems get in the way and thereby demote Spectrobes to rank of "half-baked Pokemon 
 knock-off". 
  
  One of the game's initial problems is its plot; at least Game Freak had the decency to omit one 
 if they knew they were going to bungle it. The dev team, however, decided to include the plot despite 
 the fact that it really is completely unengaging. The setting is sometime far in the future, where 
 two annoyingly young space soldiers (they're given another name, but I just don't care enough to 
 remember it) stumble upon a mysterious man and eventually learn the secret of Spectrobes, prehistoric 
 monsters that are preserved in fossils. So you've got to use said creatures to save the world from 
 an evil alien race, y'knowlike you've read/played countless times before. The dialogue honest-to-god 
 stinks -- it's completely contrived and the characters is totally one-dimensional and uninteresting. 
 You're got the reckless hero who gets in trouble for his "monkey business" (in fact, it's the subject 
 of 50% of the dialogue at the beginning of the game -- his monkey business and how all three of 
 the other characters react to it) , the pretty girl who's a beacon of common sense, the brave leader 
 of some random army, and a mysterious old man. Boring. 
  
  But, following the instructions of the old man, initially named Mr. X, you embark upon a quest 
 to uncover the Spectrobes and defeat the menacing Krawl, who threaten to overrun the galaxy. You've 
 got a nifty little device that essentially lets you store up to two Spectrobes with you as you 
 walk around, and you can have another one following you (this is the creature that you'll use to 
 find buried items) . As you walk around, you can tap the creature following you or just hit R while 
 standing still and a small circle will grow from around the immature Spectrobe (interesting word 
 choice, huh? I'll explain in a moment) . If there's something underground, a sparkly little dot 
 will appear -- touch it to enter into the digging minigame.
  
  The digging game is simple and fun at first, but quickly grows monotonous because you're essentially 
 doing the same thing every time and there's very little skill involved. You've simply got to drill 
 down a few layers into the ground, done simply by tapping the screen a few times, and then you'll 
 see a bit of whatever it is that you're digging up. You've got a few tools at your disposal, but 
 none of them are all that impressive just because, for the most part, they're really not all necessary. 
 Anyway, you just scrape around the buried object until it's completely visible, and you'll automatically 
 pick it up and add it to your stock. Pretty simple, right?
  
  At a time like this, I'd like to be able to say something like "Wrong. Because, and go on about 
 the complexity of this minigame. But honestly, I can't. When I say "Pretty simple, right?", I actually 
 mean it. It's pretty annoying, because this is a huge focus of the entire game and it's just so 
 freaking boring. In order to beat the game, you're going to have to find a lot of Spectrobes, as 
 well as different minerals and cubes to help your creatures in battle and make the more powerful, 
 respectively. So, much of the game becomes this huge, monotonous, immensely boring scavenger hunt 
 that fails to capture the players interest and will ultimately result in you tossing aside this 
 game in disgust. 
  
  The other big part of the game, and the one that doesn't fall flat on it's face, is the battle 
 mechanic. As I already mentioned, you have two Spectrobes in your party, and these are the ones 
 that will participate in battles with you. Enemies appear as swirling vortexes in the field, and 
 running into them initiates a battle. Once there, you have control of the main character, and the 
 Spectrobes automatically follow him. The monsters are controlled with the L and R buttons -- obviously, 
 the one on your right with the R button and vice versa. Hitting the Spectrobe's respective shoulder 
 button will allow them to unleash their attack. Depending on the Spectrobe, obviously, you'll get 
 a different attack; some are quite powerful but take a while to power up, and others do little 
 damage but can be executed quickly. 
  
  However, the sense of customization that was such a huge part of titles like Pokemon is just nowhere 
 to be found. A lot of this, I think, has to do with the fact that you can only have two Spectrobes 
 in your party at a time, so there's not a lot of mixing-and-matching that can be done in the first 
 place. Secondly, each of the attacks are all pretty similar, regardless of little differences in 
 power. The Spectrobes, to be blunt, are boring and forgettable, and as a result this interesting, 
 intuitive, and genuinely innovative battle system pretty much loses any worth that it had. 
  
  And even what little creature interaction it has isn't all that interesting. When you find 
 a Spectrobe, you can go back to your ship and use the Lab System to awaken it. You do this by speaking 
 (or, if you've got some sense ofmodesty and don't want to be seen in a public place speaking to 
 your DS, you could just blow into the microphone) into the microphone. There's a spectrum shown 
 and it fluctuates based on how loudly you're speaking; there's a certain range that you've got 
 to keep your voice for three seconds, so in actuality you may end up just making some noise and 
 holding it, almost as if you're singing. Afterwards, you've got to let the Spectrobe mature, and 
 this is a simple and uninteresting matter of putting it into the incubator and occasionally interacting 
 with it. 
  
  Both graphically and musically, Spectrobes is decent. The visuals in battle are fine, but a lot 
 of this has to do with the fact that you're fighting in a very confined area and so the developers 
 didn't have to worry about putting much detail into anything other than a space about the size 
 of the bottom DS screen. The field graphics look decent, I suppose, but are rather blurry and pixilated 
 at times. The music is fine, but it's not very extensive and as a result is very repetitive. Needless 
 to say, this gets pretty annoying quite quickly, and so you may just end up playing with the volume 
 off. As far as I'm concerned, it was a missed opportunity to lend some credibility to what is nearly 
 a broen game. 
  
  To say that Spectrobes is disappointing would be an understatement. I truly had high hopes for 
 this title, and there was an opportunity to prove that just because a game is about raising monsters 
 doesn't mean it's a Pokemon knock-off. And, while Spectrobes doesn't quite do that, it does prove 
 something equally poor: that any creature-collecting game that isn't Pokemon downright sucks. I'd 
 highly advise keeping your distance from Spectrobes -- unless you'd like your heart to be broken, 
 that is. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: xshadowolf
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 22, 2008 2:37 pm PT
Review:  Ok this game is a lot like pokemon. But Pokemon is pale to comparison to this awesome and tense 
 game! When you first come into play, you are a young, rash Planetary Patrol Officer called Rallen, 
 and you have a partner called Jeena. Then you get sucked into a black vortex and have to fight 
 with these creatures that come out of a Primazod against evil creatures. You find these creatures 
 in a lost shuttle with a man in it. When you defeat them, the person in the shuttle tells you about 
 these creatures called Spectrobes, and gives you one to awaken. From then on you enjoy the thrill 
 of the battle, and MANY other things. You can travel to other planets, find fossils that you can 
 awaken, excavate minerals for your spectobes to evolve, and make your own Spectrobe team!! Also, 
 you can never get bored because you can either just go around and train and excavate spectrobes, 
 or you can continue the story! The Bad- Almost nothing! just kidding so this took me ten minutes 
 to think of something bad and i have decided that when you walk on purpose the tornado slows down. 
 It should stay at the same pace. Well anyways, GET THIS GAME NOW!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Evil_Addiction
Rating: 5.5
Date: Feb 19, 2008 3:15 pm PT
Review:  Step 1: Dig up a fossil
  Step 2: Bring it to life
  Step 3: Feed and care for it
  Step 4: Butt kickin' time!
  All in all, spectrobes isn't really like pokemon- due to the fact 
 that you get a little farm-type area, and you feed your little beasties to help 'em change forms. 
 Otherwise, Spectrobes has all the monster collecting/battling qualities you've come to love.
  The battle system is different: You and two other monsters enter the battle and you hit 'L' or 
 'R' to choose a monster and 'A', 'B', 'X', or 'Y' to assign and attack. The monster will then hit 
 the closest enemy. You can attack as well, of course.
  There's a bar at the top of the screen and, if you've raised your monsters on the same farm and 
 they've become friends, they can preform an attack together that devastates the enemy. 
  Unfortunately, the game soon becomes bothersome due to the frequency in which you find the same 
 fossils.
  The landscapes are empty and battles are very spaced out. I suppose it's nice that you don't jump 
 into battles every five seconds, but this takes it too far. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Asturns
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jul 29, 2008 10:59 am PT
Review:  I like this game, it's a good game. Most pokefans will find it related to pokemon closely, but 
 much better. It seriously is a good game. Spectrobes: Collectors edition is worth the extra $10 
 because of the cards for gaming input. It is a bit hard, but not too much. It's got good graphics 
 and an OK storyline (it's just uninspired) . The characters are good, and the controls are different 
 than pokemon. It's highly recommendable. The movies are also a bit interesting. The easy money 
 is a good factor in the game as well. The game in general, is fun. Good game. :)
   
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Aforan2
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 8, 2008 2:55 pm PT
Review:  Ok. Now, originally, I really wanted this game. And you know what, now I want the second one. I 
 really don't like pokemon, so you're probably wondering "Why the heck does this guy bother? This 
 game sucks @%#!" Well, let me tells ya why I the heck bother! (falls asleep and snores like a drunken 
 old guy) I the heck bother because this game is goood! With a capital C! Ok. The beer has worn 
 off. My drunken stupidity has passed. Not only does this game use every feature of our friend the 
 DS, but it does so successfully. Like every DS game, it successfully utilizes the stylus and the 
 touch screen, not to mention how it perfectly uses every button from a to y, it also uses the mic., 
 unlike many DS games. I admit, using juvenile Spectrobian life-forms' sonar ability to mindlessly 
 scour every square inch of each planet for cubes, minerals, and more spectrobes (the more spectrobes 
 part I don't bother with unless it's a new spectrobe) can become tiring after several days of trying 
 to complete a mission on one planet. However, many players can address this problem by, (adjusts 
 nerdy gigantic glasses and puts on science teacher outfit.) scheduling specified days on which 
 to search for fossils, and/or minerals the whole time, and ones to complete missions. Now I admit, 
 that does sound what a nerd would do (STOP MAKING FUN OF ME! WHAAAAAAAHH!) , but it is a good strategy, 
 and will improve your stats on- OH MY FREAKING GOD! I FORGOT! This game also utilizes nintedo double-screen 
 WFC to the absolute fullest by allowing you to upload the protagonist's stats to a personal account 
 on spectrobes. com. Not only can you do this, but new (not used) spectrobes games bought all contain 
 holographic spectrobes cards, which can be scanned after finding the specified cube and following 
 the directions, after which you- OH MY FREAKING GOD! I FORGOT! On the lab deck of the protagonist's 
 NPP patrol cruiser (a big space ship) , you can add certain machines to the lab deck by collecting 
 certain cubes and having them analyzed by Aldous (the old guy that sits in the NPP cruiser and 
 tells you things and basically has no life. At all. Period.) . Speaking of Rallen's (the protagonist 
 that i've been calling "the protagonist") NPP cruiser, in the main deck is a hot chick named Jeena. 
 She basically does nothing but tell you your current mission and stand there so you can stare at 
 her. Well that's basically everything. Oh yeah and the gameplay is good, the graphics are good, 
 the replay value is &%#@ING AWESOME, the roleplay value (that's a play on words, just in case you 
 have a mental issue and can't understand basic things.) is supah. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: calvinx6
Rating: 7.5
Date: Dec 13, 2007 7:34 pm PT
Review:  Spectrobe is game made by Disney Interaction and Jupiter, a Japanese developer who made the acclaim 
 Kingdom Hearts: Chain of Memories for the Game Boy Advance. I know most of you are thinking because 
 this game is made by Disney so it must be for kids or you think the game is about princesses and 
 fairy tales. Actually this game is like Pokemon, everyone at all ages can enjoy it, talking about 
 Pokemon this game is a lot like Pokemon. Spectrobes are fossil like creatures that use to exist 
 in the universe but can now be revive by the help of the Professor and Rollin. Rollin the main 
 character of the game is a space ranger. While responding to a distress signal Rollin and his partner 
 found the professor , a man who came from a different galaxy to warn the space rangers of the Krawls. 
 The krawls are evil creatures in the game that consumes planets and galaxy's, the Spectrobes are 
 the only ones that can defeat the Krawls. Spectrobe is about mining and digging for spectrobe fossils, 
 mineral and cubes. You wake spectrobes in a machine that is on your ship and raise them in a incubator. 
 You use young spectrobes to find fossils, minerals and cubes, they can't fight against the krawls. 
 Adult spectrobes are big monsters that can fight the Krawls but can't find fossils, minerals or 
 cubes. the Krawls looks like tornado on the map. you can go into them if you want to battle the 
 Krawls or you can simple avoid them. The battle against the krawls are real time not like Pokemon 
 which is turn base. The battles are not good the spectrobes are dump they can't defend themselves 
 they just stand and get it, you have to run around the battle field and the spectrobes will follow 
 you, that is the only thing you can do to avoid them from getting hit. In battle you have two spectrobe 
 with you that you can use to defeat the krawls. But i use there special move to fight and win every 
 battle. All in all Spectrobe is a good game that i think everyone can enjoy it have enough content 
 too. You can download stuff from the internet to the game by using WiFi. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Missile129
Rating: 3.5
Date: Nov 23, 2007 9:53 am PT
Review:  This game seems like an abysmal attempt to copy Pokmon. Hunting for fossilstakes ages only to 
 get the same ones several times over and even when you get new ones the battles are awful. 
  
  The graphics are terrible, the battle scenes are worse, the gameplay is annoyingly repetitive 
 and all in all this game is not worth your money. Online is also just as bad and the whole trading 
 card idea was failure from the start. 
  
  It's not usual for me to barely say anything in a review and i can assure you, this is one of, 
 if not the, shortest review i'll ever write. 
  
  If you were planning to buy this, don't Stick to Pokmon. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DS-man
Rating: 5.5
Date: Nov 15, 2007 6:14 am PT
Review:  GOOD: Plenty of spectrobes to find / good idea with evolutions and growing your monsters / nice 
 music / colourfull graphics
  
  BAD: Blocky graphics / boring repetative gameplay / random encounters is realy rubbish / 
  
 
  GAMEPLAY:
  Its the gameplay that realy pulls this game down the drain. the repeptative gameplay puts you and 
 2 spectrobes on a small battlefield whilst you use R or L for you Spectrobes to attack, theres 
 no combos, only one hit attacks then they have to rest your attacks. to find spectrobes you must 
 go looking for fossiles that you must carfully dig out using your styles.
  
  GRAPHICS:
  Theres colourfull graphics in the game but the visual graphics is rubbish, ther very blocky and 
 bland backgrounds and specil effects.
  
  SOUND:
  Maybe the best part of the game, the music is realy good and catchy
  
  OVERALL:
  Disney fails 
 to catch up with a different type of pokemon, if you want a monster hunting RPG, stick with Pokemon 
 Daimond & Peral for the NDS 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bodjoe921
Rating: 5
Date: Oct 22, 2007 11:33 am PT
Review:  Gameplay - The features in the gameplay seem limited, which in my opinion makes the game not as 
 fun! They could have made some of the features better if they spent more time on it!
  *
  Sound - The sound has some problems, which takes more out of the game! Again if they would have 
 spent more time on the sound it would have been Way better!
  *
  Difficulty - This game is really easy, it didn't take me like a day or two to beat it! I think 
 the game would have been more fun if it were a little bit more challenging!!
  *
  Graphics - Honestly I have to say the graphics sucked! But the graphics in the theme video were 
 really good! And yet again if they would have spent more time on the graphics they could have been 
 better!!
  *
  Overall - This game was very disappointing for those who were waiting for months thinking this 
 game was actually going to be good! They could have made it a lot better if they SPENT MORE TIME 
 ON IT!!!!!!!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: fienno123
Rating: 3.5
Date: Oct 13, 2007 6:30 am PT
Review:  i brought spectrobes on a wild impulse and i wish i got lunar knights instead, i did get lunar 
 kinghts later on and its amazing. well enough about LK lets take spectrobes
  
  its been a long time since i played spectrobes but i cant still remeber the hateried of this game. 
 first of all lets start of with the level design, as gamespot said, the levels are just bland which 
 is a real shame since the graphics are really good. secondly the missions are the same, find the 
 guy get a cube, button bash your way though a battle, then occiasinally you'll get a boss which 
 is basically a hard battle. eh
  
  now lets talk about the combat, if you think it exists. well you the boy called rallen uses the 
 X or something button while your spectrobes attack with the sholder buttons (L &amp; R) you dont 
 move them they follow and i use them for a sheild, but battles get so tedious you try and advoid 
 them and then at a boss, your screwed because your not powerfull enough, then you gotta go to an 
 empty plaet and train for an hour.
  
  lastly lets get to digging. scratch the screen with the stylus, at first i didnt get it and kept 
 failing i realised what to do. thats the only stlyus controll and is very unorginal. the story 
 is crappy, spectrobes and brung to life bad guy tryes taking them to destroy life, you save world. 
 meh
  
  pokemon, anyone? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tubaballoonz
Rating: 8.5
Date: Oct 9, 2007 6:21 pm PT
Review:  Start with the basics. Yes, it's a Disney game. Don't let that deter you. It is kind of Pokemon-ish 
 at times, but it still holds a sense of originality. It's pretty much a game all it's own. You 
 start off as a teenaged boy and his pink haired sidekick friend thing. Blah blah blah, story story 
 story. Basically, you dig up fossils and minerals. The fossils become creatures called Spectrobes 
 and you can use the minerals to power them up in the incubator back on your trippy little ship. 
 When you get into a fight (which is started by either a set up encounter, such as bosses and whatnot, 
 or by touching a purplish black vortex that chases you down) you and two spectrobes go in to take 
 the Krawl down. You alone are completley screwed. You can hit them, sure, but compared to the spectrobes 
 at your side, it's basically like kicking king kong in the shin. Not going to do much cept annoy 
 him. So you control them with the buttons on your DS. the fighting is pretty much self explanatory. 
 Now you're character can be upgrade weapons and armor wise. New swords, new guns, and new fist 
 like objects. And shiny new armor. I mean, it doesn't sound super exiting when i talk about it 
 here, but it is. It can get repetitive and tedious, sure. But most games do. The digging up of 
 fossils is a lot of fun. It may lose it's luster after a while, but thats's a long while. And by 
 then, you'll have gotten most of them before, so you use your scanner digger thing to automatically 
 dig them up for you perfectly. There are a lot of different spectrobes to get. Gotta reanimate 
 'em all!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Lol_Bidoof
Rating: 3
Date: Aug 27, 2007 3:23 pm PT
Review:  Going to the store in june hoping for a great monster battle game. When i heard you could use cards 
 in the game to revive monsters from fossils that are exclusive i was pumped. I got the game and 
 popped it in my DS lite. After playing about 3 hours of this game I was really bummed that i just 
 wasted 30 dollars on this dissapointment. Everyone who says this is a pokemon clone is wrong. This 
 game is way far from it. Well yes there is an evolution system and yes its a monster battle game 
 but its just way to differnt and glitchy to be a pokemon clone. Well now i will stop complaining 
 aboiut that let me just get to the game now shall we. Ok well in this game you go on various huge 
 planets that stretch out to no end and while you are doing that you have to use your buddy monster 
 to see if there is anything hidden in the ground like every few steps you make. Once you made those 
 steps dig up either some shapes that help the monsters with stats, find fossils or rare cubes, 
 Then you go back to the ship examine fossils or give the cubes to the professor then go ALL THE 
 WAY FREAKIN BACK to where you were once at. Oh and lets not forget the battle system. Wow at some 
 parts it can be great but most of the time its a confusing mess and you dont know what the hell 
 you are doing. You almost always die because your monster is not facing the right way of the baddie 
 when you attack and when you miss you have to wait a few seconds until you can attack again. It 
 gets very confusing. Well there is somthing pretty good about this game. It has very good graphics 
 for a DS game. The graphics are a step further than most DS game graphics are. The surrondings 
 are ncie and the character and monster designs are neat too. But graphics are not a big part of 
 games to me. So the graphics only help a little bit with this game. As you can see i would not 
 recomend this game at all but its just my opinion. It seems like many people enjoy this game but 
 Its just very dissapointing IMO. So please dont get it only if you really really want to. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Burn1n6t00th
Rating: 5
Date: Aug 19, 2007 1:10 pm PT
Review:  So your this guy who finds an old guy who tells you that evil monster are going to take over your 
 world and that you have to dig every inch of every planet to find other monster fossils and bring 
 them back to life to fight the evil monsters and save your world. That is pretty much the game 
 right there. It's fun at the beggining to dig for stuff but then it becomes a nuisance and the 
 game is short so you get bored like 45min into the game. the fighting system is pretty bad and 
 wifi isn't even worth it only to get one unobtainable monster. Overall waste of money. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: NefertariNami
Rating: 9.2
Date: Jul 2, 2007 7:01 pm PT
Review:  I would HIGHLY recommend this game to ANYONE! It is one of the best game I have and since I got 
 it, I haven't played any other game! It is easy enough for a little kid to play and understand 
 and is highly addictive. I like this game so much that before I go to bed, I spend at least an 
 hour playing it. It is a must for all gamers, no matter how old you are! The little characters 
 or, spectrobes, are so cute that you don't want to battle with them. Whether it's searching for 
 fossils or minerals, destroying krawl, or just hanging around, this game will soon be part of your 
 life if you give it a go. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Zeldacrazy5
Rating: 8.4
Date: Jun 23, 2007 6:30 am PT
Review:  This game was made by Disney. Which suprised me cause they dont usualy make games like this.
  
  Anyway, The games stroy line is pretty simple. Your defeating the evil Crawl before they destroy 
 your universe. Now to me, i was pretty much an imitation of Pokemon. You dig up fossils, bring 
 them to life, then you train your Spectrobes until the evolve. Then you've got these Leader Crawl 
 that you have to beat on each planet, Which I gues could be like a Pokemon GYM master.
  
  But aside from that. It was a pretty good game. The graphics were pretty good, the music and sound 
 effecst were nice, and the design of all the Spectrobe creatures were very elaborate.
  
  I only wich they would have taken up a notch and used the Nintendo Wi-Fi for online battles with 
 people all over the wold. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Gra_ham_man5
Rating: 6
Date: Jun 10, 2007 2:46 pm PT
Review:  Spectrobes for the Nintendo DS is an overall generic, unbalanced, and uncharacteristically driven 
 simulator/RPG game. The game play has you running around lifeless environments where you must search 
 for fossils, which then can become new Spectrobes, battle enemies, and moving forward in the lame, 
 emotionless story. The Spectrobes are much like Pokemon where you must train them, and when at 
 the proper level and requirements, evolve into a new form. The graphics in the game are fairly 
 nice. Mostly everything is 3-D and it gives the game some of the little depth it has. However, 
 you still feel that the graphics could have been a little more smoothed out. The sound isn't bad 
 consisting of interesting sound-effects and an actually good soundtrack. All in all, Spectrobes 
 was a total let-down with its generic and bland story and characters, almost but not quite graphics, 
 and fairly good music and sound-effects. Pick this one up in a bargain bin if you absolutely feel 
 you must buy it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Bobbyh23
Rating: 5.2
Date: Jun 8, 2007 10:29 am PT
Review:  So the game starts out when your character crash lands on a supposedly deserted planet, when he 
 gets a distress signal. After walking around for a bit he finds an old man in an escape pod. He 
 finds some kind of stone thing on the ground, and for some strange miraculous coincidence it fits 
 into a slot on his arm. A black tornado comes at him and two monsters come out and attack him. 
 Then, two monsters come out of his arm crystal thing and he kills the monsters. Later the old man 
 wakes up and sends you on a journey to collect Cubes that give you special features like multiplayer 
 (Yes you have to UNLOCK multi-player!)
  
  This is when it goes downhill. You have to spend countless hours digging up stupid cubes. The cubes 
 are almost impossible to find, and when you do find one it could be one of the same ones you've 
 already unlocked. The excavating sequence is fun for the first few times, but it just gets old 
 a few hours in. Luckily you get a cute critter to help you look for the cubes which does decrease 
 the difficulty.
  
  Battling also gets old, but much faster. This game's a button masher, which does'nt sound too bads 
 when I type it, but trust me, IT IS A BUTTON MASHER! Your Spectrobes will eventually level up and 
 evolve, but it is much quicker just to leave them in the incubation chamber and feed them items 
 to level them up. I'll give Spectrobes this, it does give alot of customization to your critters. 
 You can change there colors with special food, and dig up custom parts to change around on each 
 Spectrobe. Your character can also change weapons, he can also change suits to give him elemental 
 properties like Fire, Earth, and Wind.
  
  The Wifi was definitely not what I thought it would be. Instead of fighting or trading with people 
 around the world the creators of Spectrobes thought it would be even better to offer some kind 
 of downloadable marketplace instead. Now that's not a bad idea but really, why could'nt they include 
 both? That really would have brought up the gameplay. When you first buy the game, you get three 
 cards. After you dig twelve hours for the cube to get the card reader. You then input the cards 
 into your game and you get the cube, part, or Spectrobe from the card. This is pretty much the 
 only unique and innovative part of the game.
  
  Spectrobes isn't completely terrible. But I really don't recomend this for people who just want 
 to dive into a game and play something. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: brolly321
Rating: 9.8
Date: May 15, 2007 2:55 am PT
Review:  Sure it needs a few modifications, but with more resources and a few System modifacations this 
 Game would beat down anything in it's path. As for the pokemon thing think about it this is it's 
 first try Play pokemon Red and compare the Style and creature Diversity. I mean sure pokemon had 
 150 creatures 151 if you count Mew, where as this game has only 27 and far outranks pokemon in 
 original thought and processes. For those of you who think Hey this games basically killed itself 
 with a tight ending. I say to you that The Krawl hive was based around a queen (I'm assuming) Fungus. 
 Fungus' are notorious for makeing more of themselves with spores. Being the krawl are extreme Evolvers 
 they have done anything but closed the book. Seriously I literally just made that up in typing 
 based on what information is given in the game. Another thing to look forward to is raising past 
 evoled up to Geo. I know there going to do this cuz if you really look at the geo's they all resemble 
 Evolution patterns of certain creatures Such as fire and Inka and Ice with Grilodon (I can't remember 
 his evoled form. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: secretsk8r
Rating: 8.8
Date: Apr 30, 2007 9:28 am PT
Review:  Like I said, the game is very cool, I love sci-fi games and all, but this takes a Pokemon shape 
 game-play, and honestly, I think Pokemon would get my vote on which is better.
  Spectrobes has a great game-play and all, but I felt there was no pop to it, there wasn't enough 
 spectrobes to collect, and the story was very short, I felt like after just beating it once, I 
 could do it in my sleep.
  The Wi-Fi features was very dissatisfying, the only thing you could do was upload battle scores 
 and download other Spectrobes and other stuff, the only way you can have any real fun is if you 
 knew somebody that had the game, and with the rating it got there aren't many players out there.
 
  I would give the game a thumbs up personally, but it does need some work, and hopefully in the 
 future they will do just that.
  
  The graphics I thought were exceptionally well for the DS, you don't find that kind of video game 
 tech in all systems like this, they could be better over time, I felt maybe they didn't spend much 
 time on the game engine though.
  
  The game-play like I said was too short, you were prety much stuck to a one way path, I loved the 
 game story line and all, but I thought it could use a bit more to it, like different ways to go 
 that affect the outcome of the game, or just a few difficulties to choose from.
  
  It did though take advantage of all the DS features, the touch screen was used in excavating, aswell 
 as the microphone to blow the dust particles away, and you use the microphone to awaken your Spectrobes 
 as well, the touch screen also let you interact with you Spectrobes, by petting them and feeding 
 them, I think it would have been better if they let you use the touch screen as a means of battling 
 the Krawl
  
  Over all the game is great but I think with a few changes it could be better. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: graffiti14
Rating: 9.1
Date: Apr 29, 2007 5:56 am PT
Review:  This game was one i had been waiting for and when it came out I was pleasantly surprised at its 
 quality however it was a bit disappointing in some areas. It is not a game that should take too 
 long for you to master yet in some aspects it is very easy. If you were to spend around 1 hour 
 training up some Spectrobes at the beginning you should fly through the game without having to 
 do too much extra training. Good points: New style of game, cool battle scenes, a lot of Spectrobes 
 and planets. Bad points: easy to win the battles after a while, each Spectrobes doesn't have a 
 wide range of attacks and the Krawl don't get much stronger throughout the game. Worth your money? 
 Yeah for sure it is, however if it isn't your game don't bother trying it. I'v spent more than 
 100 hours and i still have not completed it yet, close but not yet Rating: A little bit of tweaking 
 and it would have been amazingly good! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Ashleigh1992
Rating: 9.6
Date: Apr 26, 2007 11:39 pm PT
Review:  I soon changed my mind. After playing for about 4 hours I got addicted. Excellent gameplay - very 
 addicting and nice animations and a variety of battle techniques.
  
  The sound is really nice - it has a really catchy themetune. The card input system is very neat 
 aswell. Even if you loose your cards, theres guides on the internet on how to bypass the input 
 system.
  
  Great game- would reccomend to any person who likes to aim for something. It's definately worth 
 the value aswell - but with all games I think there too much :P Wireless play is excellent too. 
 Adds much excitement to the game if you can find people who have it and you can battle + trade. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: supaman007
Rating: 5.9
Date: Apr 21, 2007 1:12 am PT
Review:  I bought this game two weeks ago but after two days playing I completed it.
  I really think they could have put more spectrobes in the game because I think 22 different is 
 not enough. Sure those 22 kid stage evolve twice which make 66 , Disney says they've got around 
 500 spectrobes in the game, but only if you count the different colours and custom parts. I really 
 think that doesn't count because they mostly stay the same, they're only modified nothing more. 
 And of course its really to hard to find them all because you constantly get the same.
  I enjoyed it until i finished it. I'd rather have pokemon diamond/pearl. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dracomancer102
Rating: 8.7
Date: Apr 18, 2007 2:33 pm PT
Review:  It makes pokemon look so bad.
  
  It destroys the plain battle evolution.
  
  Even though the after game stinks there are still bosses you can get stuck on. There is a reason 
 to buy this game. Disney put all its action adventure rpg simulation knowledge to use. Pokemon 
 is good but not great. Graphics in the lab system look awesome. I also learned more about mnerals. 
 Good... Very (8 Read it carefully Awsome Awsome Awsome Shiney Awsome Awsome Awsome Awsome Awsome 
 Awsome Awsome Awsome Awsome Awsome Masterpiece Awsome Uh huh Awsome Awsome Awsome Awsome Awsome 
 Awsome Awsome Awsome Awsome Awsome Continue... Awsome Awsome Awsome Awsome Awsome Awsome Awsome 
 Good Awsome Awsome Wazaa! Awsome Awsome Great Awsome I'm runnning out of things to type!! Awsome 
 Awsome Awsome Awsome Awsome Awsome Awsome Awsome Awsome What the?! Awsome Awsome Good Awsome Awsome 
 Awsome Awsome Awsome Awsome Awsome Nice Awsome Awsome Awsome Awsome Readin? Awsome Awsome Awsome 
 Awsome No more *Aww* 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mutantmikerocks
Rating: 4.9
Date: Apr 18, 2007 12:02 pm PT
Review:  The game had a brilliant idea about hunting for fossils, battling and training. But scavenging 
 the fossils over every planet can get quite repetitive at times looking for minerals because you 
 find the same one everytime you search. The training was a good idea but if you put them in a chamber 
 you can't do anything but feed them. You can't battle with them or play any minigames with them 
 either. The battle sequence was simple and easy except the harder battles because the spectrobes 
 were actually very stupid. The battling was basic because you had to charge an attack for it to 
 be effective against the harder bosses and do not rush into a battle against a boss without any 
 high level or you will most likely lose. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DidiCardoso
Rating: 7.7
Date: Apr 17, 2007 12:06 pm PT
Review:  In Spectrobes you play as Rallen, an officer of the Planetary Patrol. One day, Rallen and his partner 
 Jeena receive a distress signal from a planet and find an escape pod with a scientist in cryogenic 
 sleep inside. When he finally wakes up, they learn of an attack by some creatures known as the 
 Krawl. The man also tells them about the Krawl's enemies, the Spectrobes, creatures long extinct 
 but still dormant in the form of fossils.
  
  Equipped with this new gadget called a Prizmod that allows him to battle alongside with two Spectrobes, 
 Rallen sets out to find enough Spectrobes so he can have a chance at stopping the Krawl from destroying 
 other planets. With the help of Jeena and Aldous' knowledge, what follows is a strange investigatory 
 and archaeological adventure.
  
  With a Spectrobe attached to his Prizmod, Rallen can use it to search the ground for minerals and 
 fossils. You walk around and tap the Spectrobe to activate the scanning process. If something is 
 near, the Spectrobe jumps around and you will see shining spots. Depending on the color of the 
 glow, you can tell what's buried: yellow/orange is a fossil, blue is a mineral, glittery is a cube.
 
  
  Your stylus becomes your digging kit, with drills of different sizes to excavate whatever you find. 
 But you have to be careful not to break whatever it is you have found. There's a gauge that shows 
 the damage done to the object and a stress gauge that shows the pressure of the tool on the object 
 (keep it as low as possible) . To dig out something, you must have uncovered 95% of the object. 
 Fossils can be taken to the ship's lab to be awaken. The awakening process is quite funny, especially 
 for other people who may be watching you at the time. You launch a fossil into the chamber and 
 you must use your voice and keep the volume between the brackets or past the mark during three 
 seconds.
  
  From there, you can place your child Spectrobes in the incubator, where you can feed it minerals. 
 Minerals come in different shapes and colors, and each has its own properties. Spectrobes will 
 evolve to adult after a certain time in the incubator. Feed them and check back periodically to 
 see if they can evolve (there will be a glitter above them) . Tap the Spectrobe with the stylus 
 and you will see it in a sort of cocoon. Tap the cocoon to reveal the evolved Spectrobe.
  
  Cubes are very special items that give your game bonus features. Think of it as a sort of unlockables, 
 you will only have certain things in your game if you find the right cube for it. Some cubes allow 
 you to attach custom parts to your Spectrobe, to evolve past adult form, to change the terrain 
 in the incubator and others add extra features such as DS Wireless Play. Any cubes you find, bring 
 them to Aldous and he will identify it for you.
  
  The wi-fi system will appear in the lab after you've handed the cube to Aldous. There are two features 
 in the wi-fi system, download and upload. The Download feature lets you use points to purchase 
 videos, Spectrobes, minerals and custom parts. The Upload feature lets you upload your Sequence 
 Battle scores from the Great Black Holes on the different planets. After all the complexity of 
 digging, awakening, evolving and whatnot, you have a very simple yet awkward combat system. Your 
 Prizmod can accommodate two adult Spectrobes that will fight with you, and four others that will 
 offer support properties. While Rallen is for the most part useless to fight, the Spectrobes do 
 their job at kicking some Krawl ass. You move with the D-pad and attack with the left and right 
 triggers, depending on which Spectrobe you want to do the attack. You pretty much use Rallen to 
 position the Spectrobes and face the way you want them to attack.
  
  Graphically, the game is very well done. The environments are colorful, the character art is great 
 and the Spectrobes and Krawl have very interesting monster designs. The sound is also excellent, 
 particularly the soundtrack, and the dialogs are well-written and tell a good story.
  
  Regardless of the combat dragging a bit, Disney has done very well treating us to a very engaging 
 game. It's originally strange, there is a lot to do in it (which is great for the completist in 
 all of us) and will keep anyone busy for quite a while, as long as they have the patience to excavate 
 here and there every so often. Review text part of Grrlgamer. com. Full text, screens and mini-guide 
 at:
  http://www. grrlgamer. com/review. php? g=spectrobes 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rtsmyname
Rating: 8.8
Date: Apr 13, 2007 7:25 pm PT
Review:  Gameplay- I would give the gameplay a nine, if you buy this, your gonna spend a ton of time excavating 
 fossils, not because you have to but because it's awsome!
  
  Graphics- Some say there horrible some say there perfect. I think they did a good job on the spectrobes 
 and environments but the real people had less detail than some objects 1/3 of their size.
  
  Sound- I am not a person that knows alot about sound but i know that the music's not that bad, 
 so I still turn it up and listen every once in a while but I usually listen to my MP3 on all my 
 games.
  
  Value- Great buy for a good price. I've spent hours on end with this game and it hasn't gotten 
 any less exciting from when i first opened the box and popped it in my DS.
  
  Overall- I think it's a great game and those who rated it badly probably only played for twenty 
 minutes but if you've ever played Kingdom Hearts or Kingdom Hearts 2, you know what it's like when 
 a game gets way better. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ravingrabbid
Rating: 1.7
Date: Apr 10, 2007 9:02 am PT
Review:  This game is one of the worst I played for a long time as Disney must have spent all there budget 
 on marketing for the game, instead of trying to make it at least playable. First of the story is 
 a bit flat as the team of heroes must investigate a distress signal, which triggers a list of events 
 they end up on a quest on saving the galaxy, from a race of creatures that is consuming everything 
 they touch. You stop them by using ancient creatures that you find from the ground and use your 
 voice to wake them up. The battle system is very flat as it has no strategy and that your party 
 does very little to help you in attacking, as they have a time limit for each attack you press. 
 All these features they used for the game like the touch screen and voice just dont work together 
 which makes all these ad ons feel tacked on. The worst part is the cards that you will have to 
 buy to get different creatures, which you could save your self some money and just muck around 
 with the code input for the cards and you would easily get a random bunch of freebies that way. 
 This game is WiFi enabled but all you could do is watch the trailers of the game which are very 
 old and buy more useless items with the credit you receive each week. The only good thing is 
 that I bought the game from EB so managed to get a refund for the game the next day lucky me.
 
  
  In summery this game is just a bland Pokemon clone which I could only recommend for the hard core 
 Japanese Disney gaming fans out there that must be so desperate to get their Pokemon fix. with 
 after Disney taste. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Terev
Rating: 9.8
Date: Apr 9, 2007 7:28 am PT
Review:  Awesome. This game is very, very fun. Graphics- 10- The best on the DS, if you ask me.
  
  Game Play-10- Digging for fossils, bringing them to life, and customizing them, and battling with 
 them by your side, that is just awesome!
  
  Sound-8- As it is now, I don't really care much for the sound, because I'm always focused on the 
 game play. But, the sound isn't as grating as they suggest.
  
  Value-10- The Wi-Fi capability makes this game even more awesome. Being able to beat the snot out 
 of your friends, and downloading exclusive material... That is a dream come true.
  
  Summary- Buy this game, now, because your missing a great experience if you don't already have 
 it.
  
  WARNING- This game is great, but this is the kind of game that you either love, or hate, so be 
 warned before you buy it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: FelisLeo1980
Rating: 8.3
Date: Apr 8, 2007 1:16 pm PT
Review:  Disney Interactive Studios and developer Jupiter have now released their own product to compete 
 against Nintendo&acute; s popular Pok&eacute; mon franchise. In Spectrobes characters Rallen and 
 Jeena are officers in Nanairo Planetary Patrol (NPP) , who answer to a distress signal and discover 
 a wreckage of an escape capsule with a man named Aldous in it. He tells them that and alien race 
 called the Krawl destroyed his home planet and are coming to do the same thing to Nanairo&acute; s 
 star system. The only thing able to stop these monsters are creatures from the past called Spectrobes 
 and now they exist only in fossilized form. What this means is that its up to Rallen and Jeena 
 to gather an army of Spectrobes and save their star system from an ultimate evil.
  
  Story is great, but the way its told is not. There is only a few CG cutscenes and all the dialog 
 is done with text and a few still-images of the characters talking to each other. This makes the 
 story much less interesting than it otherwise would have been. Game is also pretty long and for 
 me it took 32 hours to get through. The final boss fight has multiple phases just like in Metroid 
 or Zelda and requires strategic thinking. I personally enjoyed it a lot.
  
  Graphics are not very good in themselves, but luckily the different Spectrobe models are detailed 
 and interesting. Also the use of colors makes this game nice to look at and cyber-like details 
 in menu screens brings some sci-fi feel to the mix. Music is just OK, but it loops way too often. 
 For this reason I often found myself playing with volume turned off. Sound effects are much better 
 than music and the different Spectrobes sound correct, even though I have no idea what a live Spectrobe 
 would sound like. Gameplay gives a very good first impression hinting that theres a lot of different 
 things to find and do. In many ways thats true, but theres also some repetitive and monotonous 
 things that you simply have to do over and over again in the course of this game. Main thing in 
 Spectrobes is to explore different planets in Nanairo&acute; s star system and find Spectrobes within 
 these planets. But theres a catch: Spectrobes can only be found as fossils, so you need to dig 
 them up, wake them up and finally grow them up in your space ships incubation chamber. Digging 
 is done by using the stylus and waking by using Nintendo DSs microphone. Growing your Spectrobes 
 is done by feeding them with minerals found in the ground. All of this works well and is fun for 
 a few hours, but soon it becomes boring to do the same digging and feeding process over and over 
 again. At this point its advisable to buy Giga gadget (or drill) , which allows you to dig up Spectrobes 
 and minerals with just one tap of a stylus. Exploring the ground can be done either with a stylus 
 by tapping the Spectrobe with it or by pressing the R-trigger and I strongly recommend you to use 
 the R-trigger.
  
  Spectrobes have three different forms (or actually four) : infant form can be used to find fossils 
 and minerals, but adult and evolved forms in combat. There are 22 different Spectrobe species, 
 so its a lot of growing and feeding for you, if you wish to have them all. You can also give individual 
 names to your monsters, which helps you to create a special bond between you and your best Spectrobes. 
 You need to use a lot of different menus in this game and luckily they are intuitive and work well. 
 One thing I have to say is that the scrolling bar on the right side of the screen is too sensitive 
 making it a little too hard to use properly.
  
  Combat is another big part of this game and the system itself is not very good. Entering into combat 
 happens by getting in touch with a black or purple vortex, which you encounter regularly when playing. 
 Unlike Pok&eacute; mon for example these battles are in real time and you control only Rallen while 
 your two Spectrobes move according to your movement. Giving orders to Spectrobes is done with the 
 shoulder buttons. This system works, but a turn-based would have been much more tactical and better. 
 You can also hold down A button to gather four bars on the bottom right of your touch screen and 
 then unleash a super attack, which causes major damage to all your enemies. This mechanic makes 
 many of the fights extremely easy and boring.
  
  Even though you are an interstellar traveler there is no map for you to use. This is a big drawback, 
 but nothing you cant get over with in time. In later part of the game youll be given a Jet Pack, 
 which allows you to come back to your ship at any time. This is a great thing, but unfortunately 
 you cant use youre Jet Pack to go BACK to where you just came. There definitely should have been 
 a warping system similar to Legend of Zelda: Twilight Princess.
  
  For some reason you can only save while in your space ship, but this is not as bad as it sounds, 
 since if you get defeated you start from your ship, but get to keep all the items and experience 
 points you gathered before you got wasted.
  
  Spectrobes also features wireless play with a friend, where you can fight against or exchange Spectrobes 
 with your friend. You cant exchange items in Wi-Fi, but you can download some cool webisodes, 
 evolved Spectrobes and Custom Parts for your Spectrobes to use in combat. This is a cool little 
 feature, which I hope to be enhanced in future games of this franchise.
  
  Spectrobes is a polished and good game making a great use of Nintendo DS&acute; s touch screen and 
 microphone. Still its not a perfect game. I hope to see an improved sequel somewhere in the future. 
 Iku ze! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: samtraynor
Rating: 7
Date: Apr 8, 2007 12:27 pm PT
Review:  As Spectrobes is the brother of Pokemon, will it live up to the name. Spectrobes is a new RPG game 
 said to sweep the nation, but as graphics are not its strong point, will people be bored with the 
 same moves all over again. Spectrobes is a about a boy named Rallen who works for the Planetery 
 Patrol, but latest happens that Krawl have been invading Nanairo and it is your job to go and destroy 
 them. Only 7 planets are in the Nanairo System and you will be mainly hopping on to a planet more 
 than twice which will get soon boring for even the most enthuastic computer player. So, to sum 
 up Spectrobes in one sentence it would be:
  
  SPECTROBES IS A GAME WHICH CAN GO VERY BORING WITHIN ONE HOUR OF PLAY.
  
  I am Sam Traynor, 
 writing a review on Spectrobes. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: LiLJonJon94
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 4, 2007 3:27 pm PT
Review:  Spectrobes is a Space Scavenger in which players dig for fossilized spectrobes and awaken them. Then 
 the players can evolve them into stronger spectrobes and then use them to fight! I would give a 
 10.
  The Spectrobes then fight with NPP Officer Rallen against the evil krawl who have invaded the Nanairo 
 Planets. Later in the game players find an ancient spaceship which can be unlocked by putting the 
 3 keystones in and attaching the patrol cruiser. The game is great. GREAT GREAT GREAT GREAT GREAT 
 GREAT GREAT GREAT GREAT GREAT GREAT GREAT GREAT GREAT GREAT GREAT GREAT GREAT GREAT GREAT GREAT 
 GREAT GREAT GREAT GREAT GREAT 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ccbeara
Rating: 8.2
Date: Apr 1, 2007 8:09 pm PT
Review:  This game probably didn't deserve all of the hype, but it still rocks!
  
  Spectrobes is one of those games that tries to be the most innovative game ever but it only attemps. 
 There is just too much stuff put into this game! It kinda slows down the game a little bit to keep 
 checking on if your Spectrobes are ready to evolve, checking the ground for minerals, etc. The 
 gameplay is pretty solid though for having that much stuff.
  
  The visuals in this game were pretty good, but they could've been better, the animations for the 
 characters on the field are clunky and only have 3 frames. The world maps are extremely well done 
 with a very good attention to detail. If there is a sandstorm going on, you will see a sandstorm 
 that looks pretty real! Most of the graphics are pretty well though :)
  
  Next comes the sounds. The music is great in this game! Each planet has a different sound and it 
 seems to never get old! But on the other hand, the sound effects can get very annoying!!! Whenever 
 you awaken a Spectrobe or are in the incubator, you here this EXTREMELY annoying sound that keeps 
 looping and looping. Overall though, I think this game is awesome. There is so much to collect 
 and do! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: curty_flurty
Rating: 7.9
Date: Apr 1, 2007 6:29 pm PT
Review:  Yes, there can be. Spectrobes, the new game on the ds is a hard done by, challenging, and very 
 very odd game. you are set out onto an adventure searching through planets, collecting some fossils 
 that you turn into spectrobes (just think of it as pokemon) and you battle other spectrobes or 
 'krawl' as they like to call it.
  this game can take some time to get used to.. the story is very strong and you have to know what 
 is going on.
  it is impressive that they have made a whole species, world and charectars in this game, especailly 
 with wi-fi. you can download clips or movies off wifi using 'DL points' (download points) that 
 you get once a week. you can battle oppenents over wifi, and trade.
  
  bottom line: this game is truly immersive, the battling, exploring and gathering in this game is 
 very full on. after getting used to it this game can get mildly addictive and amusing, a good way 
 to kill some time. By Curt 
::::::

::::::
UserName: PokemonNovice
Rating: 8.8
Date: Apr 1, 2007 7:59 am PT
Review:  If you like games, especially like Pok&eacute; mon, then this is an okay game for you. The story 
 line in this game is absolutely brilliant. You play a boy called Rallen, and have to save the Nanairo 
 system from evil space aliens called Krawl.
  The monsters in this game are called Spectrobes, (Hence the name) , and have to be awakened in 
 the Lab system by your own voice. I personally bought this a week after the game was released, 
 and loved every moment I've been playing it.
  There is a decent amount of game play in total, but the story line could be longer (Around 24 hours) 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sharingon67
Rating: 7.6
Date: Mar 29, 2007 3:40 pm PT
Review:  spectrobes is fun but after a few bosses the total gamplay gets really old. Though dont get distracted 
 by all the advertisement its not as great as I thought it would be. It does have some really annoying 
 sounds like the clanking when you run and the sound thhat the child ones make when you surch and 
 many others. there are some ups for this downish game though like the battles are realy fun to 
 draw out and personaly the spectrobes lok realy cool. the funnist part is the battles thought and 
 cuz thats the only plase the spectrobe dudes realy matter. But over all its A fun game But rent 
 it first if you want to see how you like it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: stonzreaper
Rating: 8.3
Date: Mar 27, 2007 4:25 am PT
Review:  Well its crap in the begining but it really gives out more later.
  U start off an officer of some patrol and u recieve a distress call.
  U find an old bloke in 
 a spacecraft and also a weirdo gizmo called Prizmod. You get in a fight and these KOOOOOOOL looking 
 things come up.
  At first youll think the graphis are good for the DS. Then ull find that the monsters look kool. 
 Then ull find out that u dont know how to fight cause its soooo confusing. I had hat prob. After 
 about 30 mins i got rolling like a pimp on a good mood. :D The excavation is kool. But its hard 
 to get levels. Overall: Good. Just get the hang of it :D 
::::::

::::::
UserName: HellSin69
Rating: 6
Date: Mar 26, 2007 11:33 am PT
Review:  At first I looked at this game with such promise about its future. Decent graphics for the DS, 
 and a nice touch on some features. Lets dig deeper into this.
  
  All-right kids time for the gameplay section. Well it basically works in a cycle, that can get 
 tedious and boring. Pick a planet that you want to go to, search for fossils using a baby spectrobe, 
 find 3 kinds of fossils or finds (mineral, spectrobe fossil, or cubes) , dig it up, go back to the 
 ship when you have enough, enjoy the l00t. One thing..... the evil baddies running around everywere 
 in purple/black tornado things... yes. The battle system reminds me of Radiata or Star Ocean. You 
 get into a battle with control of your pets and yourself running around hitting them with all you 
 got. Yes the battle system is EXTREMELY boring. And most people have figured out you dont even 
 have to get into battles, only the boss ones you really have to get into, but the side ones you 
 can just loose the tornadoes and run around looking for more l00t! The GOOD side of the gameplay 
 is multiplayer with friends. Theres nothing better than a 3v3 brawl with friends... and spectrobes 
 alike. The BAD side of gameplay is the annoying battles in the middle with the baddies. Other than 
 that the gameplay in this game is decent. Not good nor bad. Decent.
  
  Yay graphics, this would be your typical DS game with crap-tastic 3D renderings. Allthough they 
 did do a pretty good job of this, I did like the monsters they were pretty sweet I must say. The 
 environments in this game seem the same over and over, it IS very easy to get lost on a mission. 
 Overall i wouldent gripe to much about the graphics due to this game IS on the DS. So Huzzah Spectrobes 
 you might get some slack on this sections due to the nice monsters ;D
  
  Sound, sound, sound. Is there anything more annoying than repeating music? I, for one, listen to 
 music when these games appear. But the music wasent so bad the nice screeching of all the little 
 monsters made me want to poke them with my stylus.
  
  I believe this game is a renter. Just because most people like battle systems and not much on the 
 side of collecting all the spectrobes. I'm done with the game and will most likely never play it 
 again! Sorry, Spectrobes is one for the bargain bin at your local game store.
  
  Pros:
  -Alot of cool creatures to collect.
  -Fossils and digging doesent get tiresome...... perhaps.
 
  -Alot of customization between the monsters
  -A good wait for pokemon perhaps.
  
  Cons:
  -Battle system is the pits.
  -Story line isent worth getting in to.
  -This game is 
 a definate renter. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sonic_shadow
Rating: 9.9
Date: Mar 25, 2007 9:52 am PT
Review:  itza good game n all and it has great ... uuhm... i dunno story thingy...
  the games has gurait grafics 'n sound 'n gamewplay 'n other stuffies..
  i like it andam going 
 to play it for ever 'n ever 'n ever 'n ever 'n ever 'n ever 'n ever 'n ever 'n ever 'n ever 'n 
 ever 'n ever 'n ever 'n ever 'n ever 'n ever 'n ever 'n ever 'n ever 'n ever 'n ever 'n ever 'n 
 ever 'n ever 'n ever 'n ever 'n ever 'n ever 'n ever 'n ever 'n ever 'n ever 'n ever 'n ever 'n 
 ever 'n ever 'n ever 'n ever 'n ever 'n ever 'n ever 'n ever 'n ever 'n ever 'n ever 'n ever 'n 
 ever 'n ever 'n ever 'n ever 'n ever 'n ever 'n ever 'n ever 'n ever 'n ever 'n ever 'n ever 'n 
 ever 'n ever 'n ever 'n ever 'n ever 'n ever 'n ever 'n ever 'n ever 'n ever 'n ever 'n ever 'n 
 ever 'n ever 'n ever 'n ever 'n ever 'n ever 'n ever 'n ever 'n ever 'n ever 'n ever 'n ever 'n 
 ever 'n ever 'n ever 'n ever 'n ever 'n ever 'n ever 'n ever 'n ever 'n ever 'n ever 'n ever 'n 
 ever 'n ever 'n ever 'n ever 'n ever 'n ever 'n ever 'n ever 'n ever 'n ever 'n ever 'n ever 'n 
 ever 'n ever 'n ever 'n ever 'n ever 'n ever 'n ever 'n ever 'n ever 'n ever 'n ever 'n ever 'n 
 ever 'n ever 'n ever 'n ever 'n ever 'n ever 'n ever 'n ever 'n ever 'n ever 'n ever 'n ever 'n 
 ever 'n ever 'n ever 'n ever 'n ever 'n ever 'n ever 'n ever 'n ever 'n ever 'n ever 'n ever 'n 
 ever 'n ever 'n ever 'n ever 'n ever 'n ever 'n ever 'n ever 'n ever 'n ever 'n ever 'n ever 'n 
 ever 'n ever 'n ever 'n ever 'n ever 'n ever 'n ever 'n ever 'n ever 'n ever 'n ever 'n ever 'n 
 ever 'n ever 'n ever 'n ever 'n ever 'n ever 'n ever 'n ever 'n ever 'n ever 'n ever. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: newagedevil
Rating: 4.7
Date: Mar 23, 2007 3:37 pm PT
Review:  I can run around in a circle for hours digging spectrobes. I can spend plenty of time digging for 
 the minerals to feed them. I can raise them in the incubator. I can watch them evolve. I can't 
 battle with them. The battle system is SOOOO boring that I can't enjoy the game at all. Everything 
 is just fine until you realize that all the work you are doing, finding, raising, etc.. leads you 
 to the dull pathetic attempt of a battle... it all becomes pointless. This game is not Pokemon 
 nor should be treated as if they are in the same class. They are two completely different games. 
 But the best thing you can possibly do is just wait for Pokemon. Horrible game... just wrong. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Nat26han
Rating: 9.1
Date: Mar 23, 2007 5:28 am PT
Review:  Spectrobes has 69 different monsters to collect, and has 3 custom parts for 47 of the monsters, 
 and 3 colours for all 69, witch means there are about 500 things to collect, but at the moment 
 you can only get 68 different monsters because the number 24-Thundora you cant get at the moment. 
 Spectrobes has many features that have to be unlocked by collecting cubes there are 20 cubes and 
 6 of them are special because they unlock extra things there is 1 for custom parts, 1 for different 
 terrain, 1 to evolve adults to evolved form, 1 for WFC, 1 for card input system and 1 for wireless 
 battles and trading.
  For the card input system there are 30 cards to collect (so far i think) and you use your stylus 
 to tap in the holes in order.
  Thanks, I hope you will get the game and enjoy the rest of the fun!!!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Freedom_Link
Rating: 3.2
Date: Mar 22, 2007 3:05 pm PT
Review:  I must say if any other game devopers try to copy pokemon I shall bemoce mad!, This is yet another 
 dissapointing attempt although the grafics are better than the pokemon series its the gameplay 
 that puts me off. WIth the creatures at your command braindead and needing to be told how to attack... 
 The AI is kept to a bare minimun with them wildly swinging at you no skill is really needed. The 
 sound is average with no real memarable tracks. The only part I thought that was clever was the 
 card system, Basicaily you receive 4 random cards with the game which upload creature or items 
 to the game. But thats it. Value for money in minimum.
  
  Take my advice, Keep your Money.
  Xxx 
::::::

::::::
UserName: omegabyte
Rating: 6.7
Date: Mar 20, 2007 11:13 pm PT
Review:  Spectrobes is, essentially, Disney's answer to Pokemon, and while it did a lot of things right, 
 it also has a number of design flaws which really ruin the game. Gamespot's official review seems 
 to focus a lot on the bad story, which is kinda silly if you consider that this is a game marketed 
 to kids and is in the same genre as Pokemon, not known for its storytelling finesse. The gameplay 
 is where Spectrobes really shines, and also disappoints.
  
  First of all, the things they did right. Spectrobes makes excellent use of the DS's multiple input 
 and output functionality, using the dual screens at all times very effectively. The excavation 
 part of the game makes excellent use of the touch screen and dual screen, and even the microphone, 
 and the Spectrobe awakening mini-game utilizes the microphone really well, though it can often 
 be a frustrating experience trying to hold the right volume for 3 seconds. The battle system is 
 also very fun, just poorly balanced.
  
  Now for the problems. First of all, the main character Rallen fights with your Spectrobes in battle, 
 and while this wouldn't normally be a problem, it is when you take into account that Rallen never 
 gains any experience or levels and is entirely reliant on equipment to increase his stats. On top 
 of that, the equipment he gets is still pretty much entirely ineffective on all enemies, so it's 
 pointless to invest in any offensive items - especially when you consider that the blaster and 
 sword both drain your stamina gauge when you use them, preventing you from using a Spectrobe attack 
 in conjunction - its better to just use the glove and punch enemies whenever necessary. Equipment 
 and recovery items are also frustratingly expensive, particularly in the early game, when you might 
 have to fight 5 to 10 battles just to buy a single weak healing item, and dozens and dozens of 
 battles to get any of the equipment.
  
  The battle system is also poorly balanced. The defense stat doesn't seem to do very much in reducing 
 the damage taken, and the result is that if you play the game using normal attacks and avoiding 
 the overpowered CH attacks, it becomes quite difficult (which some people might prefer) . However, 
 if you use the CH attacks, the game is ridiculously easy and not even really a challenge, or fun 
 for that matter. The method for finding fossils and minerals is quite tedious as well, and could 
 have been done better. Rather than showing an extension of the bottom screen on the top screen, 
 for instance, it might have been better to show an X-ray of the ground beneath you so that you 
 can see if there are things to excavate around. Seeing where you can find the items while you're 
 exploring is a lot better than stopping to hold the R button every few paces.
  
  There's also a few oddities in the design that are questionable. One thing that stood out to me 
 is the fact that there seems to be absolutely no friction in the battle floor. Rallen and his Spectrobes 
 will slide for a half second before coming to a stop whenever you stop moving, and if you try to 
 turn you may find yourself fishtailing a bit. It's a strange effect, but doesn't really hamper 
 the gameplay at all, it just looks weird.
  
  Despite its flaws, Spectrobes still manages to be fairly entertaining. The excavation system is 
 surprisingly addictive and fun, and the battles are quite fun, so long as you don't play cheap 
 and use nothing but CH attacks. With a little work on the problems, Disney could easily turn this 
 into a great franchise, but they need to rethink some of their ideas and rebalance the game's design. 
 Give Rallen the ability to level up and actually be useful in battle, make equipment and items 
 cheaper, and maybe even set the Spectrobes up to use some AI reminiscent of Kingdom Hearts or Star 
 Ocean rather than requiring player input, and give each Spectrobe and Rallen their own stamina 
 gauge rather than a shared one. Improve the fossil-finding system and add a lot more Spectrobes 
 to the list (it's pretty puny with only 20 or so species, even if they do have 3 forms each) . Hopefully 
 there will be a second game in the series, and they'll fix the problems with the first, because 
 it definitely has potential to be great. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Hajatu
Rating: 6.2
Date: Mar 20, 2007 5:34 pm PT
Review:  Really, when i watched the trailers, i was excited. Trailer story movies made me cream my pants. 
 but when i played the actual game, i was a tad disapointed... sure i know you cant make a game 
 exactly like the trailer, but they really stepped down a notch in the battle sequences. At the 
 beginning when I got into my first fight, i raised my eyebrow at the characters victory sequence... 
 the face didnt look too well, not to mention the action that he did wasnt very natural... as for 
 the fight itself its not so interesting. you kinda need to direct where your spectrobe is aiming 
 via pointing in your characters direction... and your spectrobe follows you like a lost dog. maybe 
 i put the game away too soon, and there was a spread out function, but im going to assume there 
 isnt... so thus im left with these 2 beasties at which you have to move yourself, in order for 
 them to move, which in turn could put you in jeprody.
  
  the story is interesting, which was probably the few things that i liked. though if you didnt watch 
 the trailers, you'd be somewhat lost. it throws you straight into the story and some dialogues 
 used in the trailer - which were key - were not in the game. the adventure aspect is okay... running 
 around, searching for fossils, dusting them; nuff description.
  
  i suggest reading up and searching into this game a bit more before you buy it, but im going to 
 have to side on the ratings of gamespot here... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Rock231992
Rating: 8.7
Date: Mar 19, 2007 1:07 pm PT
Review:  It has great game play and really good graphics for a DS. At frist it is hard and you don't know 
 what to do??? But after it get's easy and gets better and better through the game. The spectrobes 
 game is like a pokemon game a little bit because with all the spectrobes who fight for you. If 
 you have Wi-Fi then you can download cool items and chips of the game and spectrobes which is really 
 good. The input cards are helpful because you can get spectrobes, items and more. You get the input 
 cards with the game in the case. But if you buy the spectrobes game of www. play. com then you get 
 three more cards with it which is really good. So if you want spectrobes then get it now of www. play. com. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Hoot3232
Rating: 1
Date: Mar 18, 2007 2:15 pm PT
Review:  This game is not worth looking at from my point of view. I mean, it is so boring there is really 
 no point to it. The graphics are TERRIBLE. This is sriously a bad game, I can't believe all the 
 people who is saying its good. Disney has finally hit it's all time low with Spectrobes... Well, 
 I cant even give this game a 6.0 like gamespot did, so, for me, its a 1. I mean, i cna't rate it 
 no higher than that because i would be lieing so, it has to be a 1. And if you LOVE video games, 
 do not, i repeat do not waste your hard earned cash on this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: darknightmario9
Rating: 8.7
Date: Mar 17, 2007 5:07 pm PT
Review:  for some its really stupid, but have they even tried getting to 2/5s of the game its a mix between 
 star ocean till the end of time, tales of synphonia, etc and pokemon, digimon, etc the first thing 
 you might notice (besides the awsome graphics) is that youre charecter can only do 1 dmg now dont 
 worry you will soon be able to do more dmg later on but still you cant kill a krawl a. k. a enemey 
 alone but with the help of theese prehestoric creatures called spectrobes you will get the job 
  go spectrobes. srry bout that the point is is that 
 it may not be pokemon but it will hod youre attention until pokemon p/d come out =) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Cleric_of_doom
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 17, 2007 11:47 am PT
Review:  The games we are getting get better and better!
  Look at spectrobes! Its a advanced version of a mixture of
  Digimon World and LostMagic!
  These 
 things get better all the time!
  Just think breeding your own monster with others helping other players!
  Not to mention dealing 
 damage to other players you know!
  It's a great way to expand your knowledge of games!
  Just think of it this way if your a critic.
  Imagine you have a creature small and furry and 
 cute
  but then it grows up and becomes the ultimate battle buddy!
  It's your friend and your guardian!
  This is a pretty good game you should
  DEFINATELY BUY 
 IT!!!
  IT RULES!!! Have Fun Fellow Players! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bbtcbbtc
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 15, 2007 6:20 pm PT
Review:  Great game. Nothing like pokemon. Recomend it to anybody. Gamespot gave it a 6.0 but it is a lot 
 better then they say. g g g g g g g g g g g g g g g g g g g g g g g g g g g g g g g gg g g g g 
 gg g g g gg g g g g gg g g gg g g g g g gg g g g g g g g g g g g g g h h b b b b b b b b b b bb 
 bb b b b b b b b b 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GuidoBam
Rating: 8.3
Date: Mar 14, 2007 1:46 pm PT
Review:  To start out this game is NOT Pokemon ok. The only this simaler is the Evelotion. I just wonted 
 2 get that out their. =)
  
  The Battle Systim is not top noch it's not bad eather. It is simaler to FantasyStar
  (grate Searese) . 
 You are in a dome like area. The controls are ok they need 2 tell you how to attack with your Spectrobes 
 a little more. I dont see what all the fuss is about the sound it's not like FFXII sound i mean 
 its ok but it's not mined blowing. The Graphics are a little of a disopointment but who carres 
 about that lol all im sayibg is they could have bin better ( But this is a Huge game) .
  
  I like the WiFi gameplay its pritty good ( i dont have much 2 say abour it lol) .
  
  I alsow 
 like the Idea of digging up the fosles i thisnk they did that well.
  
  All around i think this is a very good game 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SpecterX3
Rating: 7.6
Date: Mar 13, 2007 8:02 pm PT
Review:  Disney, the closest thing to a dictatorship in modern media, has set off to do the near impossible 
 and create a successful game franchise, but did they do their job well. Spectrobes is kind of a 
 mixed bag, and it's definitely not for everyone. Let's start at the basics though. Spectrobes throws 
 you into an alien invasion and you as the space cadet Rallen are set off to bring them down. A 
 little tough for a generic anime hero eh? Don't worry, because this is where are little friends 
 the Spectrobes come in. Yes the Spectrobes, the alien like monsters from beneath the earth. Don't 
 be mistaken though, this game has much more depth in it's monster raising than other games like 
 Pokemon. First off, our battle comrades aren't alive at first. The Spectrobes are fossils, long 
 deceseased and buried deep underground. Depending on your skill in digging them up, they will keep 
 more of their stats and may come equip with an equip-able part. You still can't battle with the 
 Spectrobes yet though, they are only children in their original form which can only follow behind 
 you and scan for minerals. This is where the depth of the raising comes in. You must put them in 
 an incubator and feed them minerals also found in the ground until they have achieved a certain 
 requirement of food, time, and affection to evolve into their adult forms. At this point you can 
 take them out and battle with your new monsters or keep the process going into a third level. The 
 actually excavation for minerals and Spectrobes can get a bit repetitive until later in the game 
 when you can acquire better tools, but thankfully you can exit out of any excavation if you don't 
 want the mineral or the Spectrobe you have found. Now onto battle. This too is a bit repetitive 
 at the, but does get better. At the beginning, most of your Spectrobes will only have one standard 
 attack and special attack. The real time combat helps to add a little more strategy, but in the 
 end doesn't help much. Later in the game, you will acquire Spectrobes with attack menus where you 
 can issue them to use different abilities or stay put instead of following you. This is where each 
 Spectrobes' unique abilities really start to shine. Rallen has some fight in him as well, but once 
 again he is not to powerful until later but does have some useful effects like stunning enemies 
 or knocking them away. You can also use a combo attack that automatically hits every enemy in the 
 field once it is charged and both Spectrobes on your team are present. You'll need this a lot due 
 to many bosses being extremely fast and very hard to kill. Other Spectrobes on your team can not 
 be switched in, but do help out in battle by providing stat bonuses. Turning to a technical perspective, 
 Spectrobes performs fairly well on the DS. The musical score and graphics are nothing special, 
 but at least they went out of the way to make it 3D. The real amazing thing here is the Wifi. Spectrobes 
 is devoid of actually online play, but instead provides something never seen on hanhleds before. 
 The first of these is the online store. Every Friday, you are awarded points to spend on new items 
 and Spectrobes to use in the game, this could become extremely promising in the future just like 
 the next feature. When you hook up Spectrobes to the Internet, you can choose to upload your game 
 data to the official site which very soon will be able to generate a MySpace like web page for 
 your cadet. It's an interesting feature, and provides enough of a new experience to excuse the 
 lack of online play. Another interesting feature added is touch screen cards. Put a card over the 
 DS and punch in a code to get an item or Spectobe. Once again, a very original prospect. Another 
 winner here is the wireless. A wireless battle mode and trading option are available, but there 
 is another hidden gem here. A tournament mode. Yes, you can play the big cheese and set up your 
 own gaming tournament for you and your friend with just a few clicks. Overall the game is packed 
 in with new interesting features.
  
  My final thoughts are the game are mixed. The Spectrobes and unique features seem to take center 
 stage over the combat and item gathering. It's almost like a combination between MMO grinding and 
 a virtual pet that battles. The game has set the ground work for a franchise, but hopefully next 
 time Disney will take a note from other games in the genre and make it turn based. While not a 
 bad game in any respects, those looking for instant monster on monster action without out some 
 grinding and a lot of time spent in the incubator should think hard before purchasing this game. 
 Spectrobes for the DS gets a 7.6 out of 10. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: -MuGgZ-
Rating: 8
Date: Mar 13, 2007 5:38 pm PT
Review:  Spectrobes! the action real-time rpg game, is realy nothing like pokemon but this is spectrobes 
 so lets talk about that. Breakdown:
  
  Graphics. Probably one of the best graphics you will find on the ds, with the dual screen you are 
 able to see further ahead of you without walking there. This is very helpful and along side the 
 graphics the vibrant colours and 3D shapes, you find it hard to keep your eyes on the bottom screen.
 
  
  Sound: well sounds not bad. not great either and the tunes are not as catchy as the average game 
 you will play. in battle the hits sounds cheap but thats nothing that will get in the way of the 
 battle. Not any better then pokemons
  
  Replay value: In a sence yes, unless you enjoy running away from black hurricanes ( which is somewhat 
 amusing for awhile) theres plenty of things to do and do over again. it may seem a little less 
 inspiring then pokemon emeralds ability to call and re-battle gym leaders but this is the first 
 installment.
  
  Gameplay! : Spectrobes has its ups and downs in gameplay. The fossil digging in 2 words is SIMPLY 
 FUN just so long as you dont run into the same fossil to many times. From drilling around corners 
 to blowing off dirt is simply unique. Battling however seems to be mediocre rallen ( atleast at 
 this point) seems to be useless agaisnt the Krawl so you'll find yourself pressing the L and R 
 button again and again.
  
  Rap up: so is this pokemon? nowhere near BUT is it trying to be? well i guess we have to wait till 
 pokemons first DS rpg game rolls out. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: vesivilo
Rating: 6.1
Date: Mar 12, 2007 11:14 pm PT
Review:  the game feels very interesting at the beginning, but when the game time pass the game turn into 
 a booring and no adictive RPG game, just like taos adventure or children of mana.
  
  The graphics are the strong point of the game, very detailed monsters make you want to play it 
 to the bottom. But just when the battle begin you see the weak point of the game with a very confusing 
 control sys.
  
  The sound is very cool. but for me is not the most important point of a game
  
  The game take 
 you some ours in a intense fossile quest, is the most cool part of them, the varyety of monsters 
 is awesome and the evo sys take you to a pokemon similarity.
  
  For me is not a pokemon clone, maybe some similarity with the cath and train sys.
  Overally is 
 a cool game maybe for kids. if you ignore the booring battle sys, surely can enjoit. But if the 
 battle sys is booring just like was to me, surely hate them.
  
  sorry about my english, im colombiano.
  
  saludos a todos los colombianos que visitan esta 
 pagina y aportan con o sin exfuerso estos reviews para todo publico. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Writer1983
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 12, 2007 1:18 pm PT
Review:  I've had the game for a few hours now, and could barely tear myself away long enough to post my 
 first impressions!
  
  I absolutely LOVE this game! The story is one I haven't seen before (no team Rocket/Magma/etc is 
 raising havoc again , but it does have a sort of save the universe feel) , the game runs in real 
 time; both battles and in running around and searching for fossils! Speaking of fossils, I found 
 that is one of the bits that took a lot of strategy, later fossils require you to use a delicate (but 
 still speedy) touch. One of the most frustrating things about the fossil excavation part is if 
 you take too long to excavate a fossil, you automatically lose that fossil!
  
  After you successfully excavate a fossil, you take it back to your ship to awaken it (be sure to 
 do this somewhere somewhat private, you'll be shouting at your ds a lot, but it's only for a few 
 seconds per fossil, and whispering/blowing doesn't always work.)
  
  Then, you take it to an incubation chamber and feel it minerals you have excavated (you'll often 
 find minerals, fossils or other things when out looking for fossils, the color denotes what you 
 may get: gold is always a fossil, blue is always a mineral, rainbow is always a cube .)
  
  It's best to put two monsters in one incubation chamber, then when they get old enough to fight, 
 they will give each other bonuses. Come back and check on them in a while, and see if they are 
 sparkling. If they are, they turn into a cacoon, and you tear it open to show your newly-evolved 
 creature! Most have 3 forms, from child to adult (which is when you can fight) is two, then a final 
 form. Some monsters evolve over time, others when you give them enough minerals, others.. I haven't 
 learned yet! It's very similar to the farms from Digimon World DS I played earlier in the year, 
 except you can't see them on your top screen during searching or fighting. The game uses both screens, 
 and many times both are put to great use! You have two monsters that are always with you ready 
 to be summoned into battle (which is done by walking into these annoying black vortexes that tend 
 to like to follow and/or trap you!) and one you can choose to follow you around and help you look 
 for fossils. To do so, you simply tap on it, and rings appear. If a glittering gold, blue or rainbow 
 spot appears, touch it, and you go into the excavation screen to dig it up.
  
  Battles run in real time, and you have a monster on your left and right sides, which you control 
 via L and R, respectively. Your character can equip weapons, but it's best to run everyone up to 
 the Krawl (the game's enemies, lumped together and called simply the Krawl ) and fight. At first, 
 the battle system seems kind of slow and clunky, and there is no way to turn the camera, but it's 
 actually not bad! You have to wait for your Left meter or Right meter to fill up (think Active 
 Time Battle meters and you'll be close) then you press L or R when your left or right monster is 
 near an enemy to fight! There are combos, and monsters can work together on one single, massive 
 attack, but I have yet to try this.
  
  Graphics? 3D during game play and battles with nice effects when waking fossils, full-motion cut-scenes 
 and a lush planetary design. Plus, the monsters actually animate (Pokemon, I'm looking at YOU!) 
 during battle, or can be seen running alongside you or doing a little dance when they find a fossil.
 
  
  As you can see, I have barely scratched the surface on this game, and so far, I'm addicted! It's 
 everything I was hoping for and more! Contrary to what many are saying, I didn't find the game's 
 music to be grating, just kind of bland. Nothing to hum during game play, and when you use your 
 spectrobe to hunt for fossils (which you will do every few steps) you'll find that sound might grate 
 on your ears very quickly.
  
  All-in-all, while it may not be Pokemon Diamond and Pearl, I think this is a great monster-battling 
 RPG to tide you over until those game come out! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: anccert
Rating: 5.6
Date: Mar 11, 2007 11:04 pm PT
Review:  A game that's part pokemon, part digimon/virtual pet, part archaeologist inspiring, and a lot of 
 repetitiveness. Much hype little substance. After a few hours playing you'll find that this game 
 can be time consuming, NOT in terms of substance but in terms of REPETITIVNESS. You'll spend most 
 of your time running around bland/dull/empty fields known to this game as planets digging up fossils 
 and minerals left and right. Also the graphics are quite blotchy. The combat portion is so so. 
 I plan on returning my copy for store credit and waiting till Zelda comes out. If you like doing 
 the same thing over and over then you'll probably like this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: NBAmaster30
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jul 27, 2007 4:42 pm PT
Review:  Spectrobes is the first Disney game that is not off a tv show or movie! This game does a a lot 
 of stuff really good. Graphics, game play, the Spectrobes. there are about 500 i believe. this 
 game rocks and should be picked up by many people. If you enjoy Pokemon, Digimon, or Dino League 
 then you will most likely enjoy this game. This game is like Pokemon in many ways like evolution, 
 in D/P you can dig for fossils like this game. Each Spectrobe has a unique way of fighting. But 
 it is also not like Pokemon like: You fight as well with your guys, its not the same mechanics 
 as Pokemon you hit i hit its more free where you can hit 20 times in a row or get hit 20 times 
 depending on how good you are. you don't catch them you find them in fossils. all of the creatures 
 have 3 stages child, adult, evolve. child you can't fight only find other items. the creatures are 
 a lot mature then Pokemon.
  
  Rating system Gameplay: Very fun very Pokemonish with your animals and leveling up but also has 
 differences between the two
  
  Graphics: One of the best looking ds games ever. cut scenes are on par with metriod and final fantasy. 
 nice 3-d engine and all the creatures are 3-D
  
  Sound: its solid could have better music Value: 30 bucks i say so you get a lot of game for that
 
  
  Overall: its a really nice game i recommend picking it up 
::::::

::::::
UserName: devineministry
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 10, 2007 4:04 pm PT
Review:  Only had it about one day, but the game it self has already drawn me in. Of course I am a gamer 
 who likes a enjoyable game and of course graphics are not everything but the gameplay is almost 
 superb. And the utilizing of the DS's capabilities is very nice and it seems to have alot of replay 
 value even after all is said and done with the Wifi capabilities... and the cards addition is also 
 very innovative. Well, I must head back now to the game until later!
  
  P. S. Yes it may be a cross between Pokemon/ and U name the other game, but it is still unique in 
 its own write. Catch um all my behind... its more like Pokemon that are on steriods once the Spectrobes 
 evolve to there final state. :) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Djammal86
Rating: 8.2
Date: Mar 10, 2007 6:36 am PT
Review:  In the game Spectrobes you get a chance to play as Rallen, a young operative of the Nanairo planet 
 patrol who's mission is to use the Spectrobes to destroy the evil Krawl, who threaten to devour 
 the Nanairo star system. Determined to save the world Jeena and Rallen go on an excavation to find 
 the legendary Spectrobes, reduced to fossils so they may be awakened and battle for the galaxies 
 survival.
  
  The concept for the storyline in this game is original in the fact that it does not follow the 
 same structure as previous games in the past have (Poke'mon, Digimon, etc) This game actually tries 
 something new, when the plot of the story is concerned.
  
  The battle system in this game is unique as well. Unlike previous RPG turn based games, Spectrobes 
 is a real-time battle experience that captures you in the game with every battle you fight. The 
 strength of your Spectrobes are key to your survival against Krawl attacks.
  
  Also, the game has a one-of-a kind excavation feature, which allows for you to dig for minerals, 
 information cubes, and other items needed to help strengthen your Spectrobes and help you gain 
 victory in you soon to come battles.
  
  But put it simply, Spectrobes is a game that should definitely not be looked over for the DS. It's 
 unique formula helps break this game away from the cliche' gaming styles that you may seen in other 
 games. Spectrobes is something that everyone, who owns a DS, should experience.
  
  -Djammal86 
::::::

::::::
UserName: togo2828
Rating: 8
Date: Mar 9, 2007 5:41 pm PT
Review:  Okay Well where to start, i just go the game today and well its pretty cool. Aside from the fact 
 that the Graphics are that of less than normal DS standards it makes up for it, in the fun gameplay. 
 The learning curve took me about an hour to get but other than that really it was fairly easy. 
 A good addition to the game is the Excavation aspect, its fun and its challenging. Once you get 
 the trick to doing it well then it kinda gets repatative but then its also interesting to see that 
 some of the Minerals Have different sensitivity settings. One annoying thing are the Cubes, Certain 
 aspects of the games such as the Wifi play or Multiplayer cant be done until you find the right 
 cube to unlock it. The battling system is probably one of the best parts of the game really, Its 
 challenging but yet easy at the same time really its quite cool. Oh but the whole looking for fossil 
 thing does get boring and annoying after the first hour or two but put it down for an hour and 
 your back looking for new creatures. So if your like me and you want a fun game to play for the 
 time being ( (While waiting for Pokemon to come out) ) You should check this out, so far it seems 
 like a great game and i cant wait to play some more and find all the secrets and tricks of the 
 game... I Gave it an 8 out of 10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: deviru
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 7, 2007 9:05 pm PT
Review:  I just started playing this game. So, I'm gonna give my first impression of this game, since I 
 have only been playing it for only a few hours.
  
  First, the gameplay is fun... I like it. The battle is similar like Ocean Story 2 (forget the specific 
 term for this kinda battle) . I can also do the excavating and its interesting the way incubating 
 the monsters from child to adult... Second, the graphics is great for DS. Its attractive and interesting 
 to see...
  
  Then, the sound is alrite... But I dont expect too high about the sound.
  
  Value, this game worths every penny...
  
  Tilt... I like this game... ^^ so.. im going 
 to play some more... ttyl ^^ 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
