-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Spider-Man 3
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/ds/action/spiderman3/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 Spidey has dozens of attacks and web abilities.
 Touch-screen controls are comfortable and make stringing together attacks easy.
 3D graphics glamorize an otherwise 2D game.
 Tobey Maguire's voice-overs are great.
 Lots of missions to tackle in any order you want.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 Still just a typical action game at heart.
 The techno rock soundtrack is cheesy.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: May 11, 2007
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 8
Critic Score: 7.9, 19 Review (s)
User Score: 7.6, 287 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Activision
Developer: Vicarious Visions
Genre: 3D Platformer
Date: May 4, 2007
ESRB: Everyone 10+

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Spider-Man 3 is a slick beat-'em-up that uses the touch screen in ways that actually enhance the 
 experience of playing the game. 

  Many Nintendo DS games employ the system's touch screen control features in some fashion, but Spider-Man 
 3 is one of the few that does so comfortably and in ways that actually enhance the experience of 
 playing the game. While you have to use the directional pad to move Spidey around and to swing 
 through the air, all of his various attacks and web abilities are handled by tapping the touch 
 screen or swiping the stylus across it in different directions. You'll really feel like you're 
 controlling Spider-Man as you unleash a couple of jabs to a thug's face, uppercut the punk into 
 the air, and then reel him back toward you with a web line simply by making a few quick swipes 
 across the touch screen. Of course, it also doesn't hurt that the game itself is a slick beat-'em-up 
 that does a good job of telling the story of the movie it's based on while enriching that story 
 with subplots and villains taken from the pages of Spider-Man comic books.  

          You perform attacks and hurl webs by swiping and tapping the touch screen.     

  There 
 are more than 20 story missions as well as an additional 40 challenge and race missions to tackle. 
 Story missions are assigned in a linear fashion, but you can complete the rest in whatever order 
 you like. While the Sandman and Venom plotlines from the movie are the main threads that keep the 
 story going, the game also expands on the movie's story by incorporating other characters, such 
 as the Lizard from the comic books and detective DeWolfe. Mission goals vary, but they usually 
 involve beating up a certain number of thugs or rescuing a set number of hostages before the timer 
 runs out. You'll also spend a fair amount of time climbing up the sides of buildings and swinging 
 through the air. Spider-Man has a wide variety of actions and is fluidly animated, as are his enemies. 
 Everything happens on a 2D plane, but the graphics are 3D and the levels frequently twist and turn 
 while you're swinging back and forth. The environments really are quite impressive once you take 
 a moment to observe all of the cars and people milling around in the background. It's also nice 
 that all of the different areas of New York -- midtown, the theatre district, the docks, and so on -- are 
 interconnected so that you have to travel through one area to get to the mission waiting for you 
 in another area.  

  When you start the game, Spider-Man's bag of tricks already includes a dozen different attacks 
 and web abilities. Beating up thugs and completing missions will earn you money that you can use 
 to buy additional attacks and abilities, nearly doubling Spidey's repertoire. The new black costume 
 that was featured in the movie also comes into play. Attacking thugs builds Spidey's rage meter. 
 When it's full, the black costume takes over, making you stronger and faster until your health 
 runs low or you chill out for a while. That's pretty much all the costume does, apart from allowing 
 you to see the bonus meteor shard pieces that are hidden in some levels.  

  Unlike previous Spider-Man games on the DS, which made you constantly jockey between the buttons 
 and the touch screen, this game uses the directional pad for movement and the touch screen for 
 everything else. This setup allows you to comfortably hold the system and manipulate the directional 
 pad with one hand, while you grasp the stylus and tap the touch screen with your other hand. It 
 also makes you feel like you're in total control of Spider-Man. Apart from the fact that Spidey 
 can now have more moves than the system has buttons to map them all to, it just feels more intuitive 
 to unleash a flurry of attacks and webs by quickly making slashing and circular motions on the 
 touch screen than it would by pressing buttons. That's especially true when reeling in enemies 
 with webbing, which requires you to slide the stylus across the touch screen as if you were actually 
 yanking a snared thug back toward you. The game isn't always perfect at translating your swipes 
 into the intended actions, but the end result tends to be splattered thugs anyway.  

  Despite the many similarities that Spider-Man 3 shares with the previous Spider-Man games that 
 Activision published for the DS, this latest game incorporates a few minor improvements that make 
 it seem downright friendly compared to its begrudgingly tolerable predecessors. The threat meter 
 that serves as the timer in each level takes longer to fill, so you have more time to explore and 
 accomplish things. Finding your way around within each area is also easier, because now there are 
 waypoint symbols that show you the general locations of enemies and hostages. The ability to see 
 on a map what missions you have left to do and to be able to travel between areas as you please 
 also beats the stuffing out of the linear story progression of previous games.  

  Another welcome upgrade is the amount of voice-over that's used. Tobey Maguire, the actor that 
 plays Spider-Man in the movies, lent his voice to the DS version of Spider-Man 3 as well. He reads 
 most of the dialogue shown during the newspaper-style cinematic scenes and voices the many comments 
 that Spidey makes as you pummel the bad guys or end up on the wrong side of a henchman's baseball 
 bat. Occasionally, you'll be swinging through the air and Spider-Man will make a silly quip out 
 of the blue similar to the one-liners that Maguire rattles off in the movies. Those comments and 
 one-liners contribute some much-needed personality to the game, and they help you ignore the techno 
 rock music that serves as the soundtrack for most missions.  

          While the action is of the 2D variety, the graphics are 3D.     

  Most people will 
 finish the story mode in five or six hours. Completing every challenge and race to unlock all of 
 the extras and cheats will take a little longer. In addition to the story mode, the game lets two 
 people compete in four different multiplayer challenges. Both players need to have their own copy 
 of the game to participate. There's no big incentive to do so, but competing to see who can knock 
 out the most enemies or perform the most elaborate combo is good for a few minutes of amusement, 
 at least.  

  As action games go, Spider-Man 3 for the Nintendo DS doesn't really bring anything new to the table. 
 However, its innovative touch-screen controls go a long way toward breathing fresh life into the 
 old beat-'em-up formula. The slick 3D visuals and charming voice-overs are pretty sweet, too.  
    
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (19 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: wiredscotty
Rating: 7.5
Date: Sep 13, 2008 5:25 pm PT
Review:  Spider-Man 3 wasn't the greatest movie ever... there's a lot in it that just doesn't make sense.
 
  
  Spider-Man 3 isn't the greatest game ever either... there's a lot in it that just doesn't make sense.
 
  
  Let's talk about the good things first. That will make us feel all nice and happy. Spider-Man 3 
 DS (which will now be referred to as mini-spidey) , has some incredibly cool graphics... considering 
 it's on this lil' DS thingy. 
  
  First of all, Spidey looks great. His animations are smooth and slick. Seeing him jump around really 
 quick and creepy-like brings out the Spider in Spider-Man. Also, you can't expect to have spidey 
 swing wherever he likes through the whole island of Manhattan on the DS, but mini-spidey does a 
 hell of job trying to get close to that.
  
  Mini-Spidey lets you swing through neighborhoods and shows a living, breathing city in the background. 
 The city seems to go on forever and it's filled with traffic, stores, pedestrians, cops, you name 
 it. Quite an impressive feat. 
  
  The other impressive thing about mini-spidey is the innovative controls. We've all used the stylus 
 on the DS before for tiny little things, but this is the first game I've played where you play 
 primarily with the little bitty piece of plastic that is sure to be lost down some couch crack 
 or eaten by some animal or small child. 
  
  I'll admit the controls are bizarre and frustrating at first... and you'll most likely scream "How 
 the hell is anyone supposed to play like this?!" for the first half our or so... but once you get 
 a hang of it, it's awesome! And you'll wonder why you haven't been games like this all along. It 
 becomes so fun and intuitive as you slash and swipe the stylus across the bottom screen.. watching 
 Spidey almost mimicking your moves. Believe me when I say this is a great leap of game technology 
 usage right here.
  
  And finally, the powers and upgrading are great too. You get points as you beat up thugs and villains, 
 and you can use those points to purchase better powers. You can end up whipping people around like 
 in a rodeo, doing special combos, and all kinds of web and punch choreography. And finally, the 
 best power up, is the evil black suit. It makes you faster, stronger, and more arrogant... who doesn't 
 want that?
  
  And now for the bad things. The general story and game design blow. Yep... pretty bad. Half the 
 time you're not sure where you're supposed to go. The other half you know where to go and what 
 to do, but it's nearly impossible to do so. You can get stuck in places easily (I can't count the 
 times I was stuck under a gunner shooting at me constantly with no ability to get away) , and if 
 you die... which you will... you have to do an entire level over again. Blech.
  
  Plus the story is all over the place. It seems like things are missing. It assumes you know things 
 that have never been mentioned before. There are villains and bad guys running around, but you 
 really don't know how or why... and as far as following the movie, just forget about it. It's not 
 even close. Mini-spidey is a disaster in this area. 
  
  But if you can get past all that crap, it's actually a pretty fun game. Essentially, you'll probably 
 feel the same way about this game as you did the movie... which really isn't a good thing, I suppose. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Dannyp845
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 20, 2008 3:41 pm PT
Review:  Touch screen battle and graphics arn't the only thing that makes this game great. It's the way 
 the story moves and really acts like the movie itself. Unlike anyother DS game, Spider-man 3 mixes 
 a 2D enviroment with a 3D enviroment. Also the fights. The unique movements are just like spidey 
 in the movies. He also talks trash to bad guys in the game. Lol. Just kidding.
  At first glance, if you look at the back of the cover in whick the game came in, it looks like 
 a boring 2D game. But you know what they say, "Never judge a book by its cover". I stayed with 
 that saying spent my forty bucks thinking oh my god what did i just buy? But in the end, I ended 
 up liking it. I have been a spider-man fan all my life. I have Spider-Man 1 ,2 , and this one and 
 I would say that the third one is the best. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jesse13289
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 30, 2007 1:28 pm PT
Review:  Okay heres my review of Spider-man 3.
  
  Easy to say one of the best games ever. 
  
  Gameplay (10-10) Pretty good gameplay, awesome free roam, good combat, and great use of the touch screen. 
 
  Levels are not too long or too short.
  At times touch screen combat is a pain, because it sometimes follows your commands wrong but not 
 really that much.
  
  
  Graphics (9-10) Awesome graphics. For a handheld graphics are good.
  
  Web swinging rules! It 
 is pretty awesome that web swinging is like the movie like every time Spidey lets go of the web 
 he does a quick flip.
  
  Anyway fighting graphics rock. In air combat is sweet. Doesnt it just do your heart good to ruthlessly 
 kick the crap outta some crackhead in amazing 3-D graphics huh doesent it?!?!
  
  
  Well I guess i should wrap this all up.
  
  If you're looking for a good game for d. s. Spider-man3 
 is the game for you.
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Alex1914
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 6, 2007 8:10 am PT
Review:  Spider-Man 3 for NDS is the best DS game I have ever bought. Here's why:
  
  GRAPHICS: 10/10 I've never seen such a beautiful game in my life. Spider-Man looks and moves just 
 like he does in the movie. When you swing by a street, you can look down and see 3-D cars and buildings 
 in the background. I have NEVER had the frame rate slow down on me (even after I dropped the game 
 in the dog's water bowl) . Just to prove my point: The last level, where you fight Sandman and Venom, 
 includes Harry flying around on his glider and throwing pumpkin bombs, Sandman in a gigantic tornado, 
 and metal rods and building parts flying around in the sky. Even though all of this is going on, 
 you and Venom never encounter a frame rate problem.
  
  GAMEPLAY: 9/10 Here, you use no buttons for combat. Instead, it's all touch screen. For instance, 
 if you swipe up, Spidey sends a bad guy flying trough the air. Double tap up, and you send a web 
 upwards. This means you are in COMPLETE control over what Spidey does. The only problem is that 
 you can sometimes accidentally swipe a unwanted attack, but this happens rarely. You can even do 
 moves that rivals the Xbox 360 PS3 versions.
  
  AUDIO: 10/10 The music in this game is fantastic. All the actors, except Krinsten Dunst aka Mary 
 Jane, from the movie supplied their voices for the game. As with most Spider-Man games, Spidey 
 reguarly says a good amount of taunts and thinking outloud, but this time, they're extra funny. 
 I was ROFL when I heard Spidey say I'll give you points for enthusiasm. 
  
  What's better still, you get a map, upgrades, and, if you press L or R, a readout of where the 
 races, portals to other sections of the city, and missions are in you're section of NY.
  
  In the end, Spider-Man 3 is an amazing game that should be the next game you get. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: app3095
Rating: 8
Date: Oct 5, 2007 1:04 pm PT
Review:  Now this is a better Spiderman game than the other one i reviewed. It has excellent gameplay, great 
 use of the stylus, good combat and awesome cheats that u can use after you beat the game! So the 
 story starts with Spidey telling about his life and other things i tell in the PS2 version. So 
 then the game has races, ultimate challenges (which u can play levels all over again) cheats and 
 some brawling with the black suit!! And also you can play online with the wi-fi and it's awesome!! 
 to play with the mini-games! So there you have it, my DS version and my 2nd review about the Spidey 
 and games! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: zcds
Rating: 7.5
Date: Aug 24, 2007 7:34 am PT
Review:  Spider man 3 has style it opens up with some cool news paper cut sean and they are a good number 
 of them though out. Theres even VO from the cast. Toby sounds better than he did in the wii version 
 with his spider man remarks and narration. This spider man game takes it to a new level with New 
 York you can explore and an all new touch screen combat system. It can be tricky at first but once 
 you get it down you'll be beating thug's more fluent than you have ever before on a hand held. 
 It also features a nice mix of events from the movie, console versions, and even it's own. The 
 boss battles are pirty much the same from the past spider man ds games. Sadly the biggest killer 
 of this game is it's leanth taking 5 hrs or so to beat. They tried to add some extra things like 
 hidden idomes, time attack, and playing again with cheats. It's a great game just held back by 
 how long it last, maybe the next one we'll get one that doesn't only last an afternoon. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: maguilonski
Rating: 7.6
Date: Jul 30, 2007 5:20 pm PT
Review:  Spiderman 3 is just a good game because I didnt like that the city is 3D and the gameplay is 2D 
 . The missions are really hard . And also that sometimes its a pain in the A$$ to look for 
 the missions , the good part of the game are the cool use of the stylus to fight and to use youre 
 web also the black suit I love it because it makes you stronger and cooler and finally the one 
 hundred cool moves and upgrades you get to buy overall I give it a 7.6.
  This was a Maguilonski review for all you gamers out there. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mejustjustin
Rating: 3.2
Date: Jul 20, 2007 6:16 am PT
Review:  My mom got me this game, knowing I liked the first two spider man games for Game-Cube. I played 
 it a later day hoping it would be like the first two, well, it wasn't....
  
  The Good - Not bad graphics for a DS game.
  
  The Bad - Horrible game play 2-d action You get 
 the controls messed up (I always get confused on melee attacks and web slinging)
  
  No, this may not be my kind of game, but I thought it was quite worthy of a garbage can. I didn't 
 like the DS sliding to attack, so I thought Ah, I'll just use the buttons ... YOU CAN'T?!?!?!? 
 The controls were so hard I think I only beat the first level. (I got stuck at where the bank is 
 on fire) (I probably could learn the controls in a half hour, but I wouldn't want to anyway)
  
  Also, the 2D thing really bothers me, a guy comes after you, the only was to dodge him is to 
 jump, web sling up or run back. Some 2-D games may be alright, if they were like Street Fighter 
 where you have some room to move up and down, but man, this 2-D really bothered me for a relatively 
 new game... that really brings down the gameplay. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gigaman299
Rating: 8.9
Date: Jun 29, 2007 4:02 pm PT
Review:  Spider-man 3 for the DS is an enjoyable experience that will definitely be liked by any fan of 
 any genre. It has a few minor flaws that can easily be overlooked by consumers of the game, as 
 well as many pros.
  
  Spider-man 3 utilizes a full touchscreen combat system. The controls are easy, and feel extremely 
 natural. You use the d-pad to move, you tap the touch screen to web-zip, you press up to swing, 
 and you stroke the touch-screen in certain patterns to attack. All in all, this sounds very uncomfortable 
 and annoying. Rest assured; the controls of this game flow perfectly, and naturally. This game 
 also features a 2.5 D world which can be easily considered as free-roaming in many different parts 
 of town. There are different missions in each part of town, as well as fun web-slinging races found 
 in the console versions of any Spider-man game. Spider-man has a black suit, his symbiote suit 
 in this game. It is triggered by a rage bar that is seen below your health bar, and will automatically 
 be worn without fail. There is no penalty for using the black suit, and the power differences are 
 substantial, so why would you want to take it off anyways? ;D There are also unlockable attacks 
 that you can buy with points.
  
  Spider-man 3 has decent graphics that are quite interesting and fun to look at. There are many 
 buildings in the background, and you can distinguish easily the ones that can be touched and the 
 ones that cant. This game uses a full 3-D engine for everything except its FMV sequences, which 
 are displayed as newspapers. The newspaper cutscenes will not be enjoyed by most people, but the 
 other graphical achievements during gameplay are amazing.
  
  Spider-man 3 utilizes great voice acting and some sound effects. There is full voice acting in 
 the cutscenes. Its pretty cool, and necessary (there is no readable text on the newspapers) . The 
 music and in-game voice acting will eventually get repetitive and annoying. Constantly having Peter 
 mocking the enemy fits the comic interpretation of Spider-man, but lack of phrases will get annoying. 
 Youll constantly hear Peter saying the same things over and over and over again.
  
  This game is a great game, but the difficulty is painfully easy once you get the black suit. The 
 bosses offer some challenge, but there will eventually be some disappointments. Its fun, but Spidey 
 either feels overpowered, or underpowered. Unlockables are pretty fun to use, but not even close 
 to necessary.
  
  Overall, this game is an enjoyable experience not to be missed by fans and er. not fans of platformers 
 alike. Sometimes, innovative controls can bog down a game. Not this game; innovative controls make 
 this game much more fast paced and fun. Dont overlook the chance to buy this game. Even though 
 it isnt that high in demand, its still incredibly fun to go through. Remember kids, its Spider-man, 
 with a dash! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ekoolish
Rating: 7
Date: Jun 15, 2007 8:11 pm PT
Review:  As soon as you turn on your ds with your new copy of Spiderman 3 you will be wittness to one of 
 the best games going around on the ds. With new moves and attacks as well as a fantastic storyline.
 
  
  Fantastic for anyone who has previoulsy purchased a Spiderman game and enjoyed it. It trully is 
 one of the few games which is better then any of it's previous versions.
  
  Pro's: new moves and brand new storyline
  
  Con's: very average graphics and not a very lengthy 
 game for an addicted fan.
  
  Final words: Don't bother even trying to wait for a better game on nintendo ds because it's going 
 to take quite a while.
  
  Reviewer: Eric. K (first time reviewer) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Chris62442
Rating: 8.1
Date: May 27, 2007 10:50 pm PT
Review:  Spider-Man 3 is an interesting game. It's a beatem up, but unlike most that usually turn into button-mashers, 
 this game has you frantically slashing across the touch-screen. This isn't a bad thing, it puts 
 a fresh spin on a tired genre. Pretty much all combat is handled through the touch-screen, with 
 moving and web-swinging being mapped to the d-pad (jump and press left or right to start swinging) . 
 Slashing the stylus across the screen will result in a punch, while double tapping in the enemy's 
 direction will have Spidey web him up. If all of this sounds confusing, it is, and the game certainly 
 has a learning curve. But after a few levels it becomes natural to pull off some pretty sick 40+ 
 hit combos with ease. That is, if the game isn't misreading your touch-screen inputs. Sometimes 
 when I make a circle motion on the screen, the game reads it as normal dash. Also, since the action 
 is shown in the top screen while you controll it from the bottom, moves that require you to move 
 the stylus in the enemy's direction can be cumbersome to do. However, this is too much of a problem. 
 The game is broken up into missions. They almost all require you to either defeat enemies, rescue 
 civilians, or press switches, nothing fancy. You also unlock the black suit which makes you much 
 stronger. It's also really easy to activate, simply kill a couple enemies and ta-da! Perhaps the 
 game's biggest fault is it's length, clocking in at only a few hours. However, it's a few hours 
 well spent. It may be a no frills beatem up, but the touch-screen controls and cool Spider-Man 
 moves and enemies make it stand out. If you're looking for Spider-Man 3 gaming action but want 
 to avoid the putrid console versions, I definitely suggest the DS game 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Edmen_Tam
Rating: 9.4
Date: May 27, 2007 1:33 am PT
Review:  simply amazing. i was skeptical at first whether to buy this game or not. i didnt regret buying 
 it. this is my first spiderman game for the ds and the best. no question about it. gameplay wise, 
 the controls are great!! u really feel like you are spiderman. a great innovation by fully using 
 the touch screen, the world is quite big, nice exploration. the dialogue in the game really gives 
 it a personality of its own. and the unlockables are superb. no doubt that this is one of the best 
 ds games to me. overall, if you're confused whether to buy this game or not, buy it anyway, its 
 a great collection to your ds games. GO GO SPIDERMAN!! GO GO NINTENDO DS!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SonicBalla
Rating: 8.1
Date: May 21, 2007 3:42 pm PT
Review:  Spider-Man 3 was a pretty good game. For me it provided new fun gameplay on the DS that I kind 
 of never seen before. OK The gameplay was alright because it was very fun but at the same time 
 frusterating. The reason it was frusterating was because when you tried doing some attacks you would 
 sometimes do another because so many attacks are similar such as dashing your styles across the 
 touch screen and then doing it 3 times. But although that was all frusterating it did provide new 
 gameplay and if you are like me than you would enjoy it because I like new gameplay. The graphics 
 are pretty good but what they needed to work on more was Spider-man and the rest of the people 
 in the game because to me everyone looked like colored stick people in beautiful 3-D enviroments. The 
 sound was probably the best thing in the game. It had good sound affects and even voice acting which 
 is really rare on the DS. I don't know if this game will last you long because it is addictive 
 but at the same time fairly short. The only way this'll last long is if you like doing lots of 
 pointless fighting and if you want to try the unlockables that are available when the main story 
 is over. So overall I'd say you'd enjoy the game if you don't have a problem with short and sometimes 
 annoying games. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: chasemoneyg1
Rating: 5.7
Date: May 20, 2007 1:57 pm PT
Review:  I tSpider-man 3 is one of the most disappointing Spider-man games. The Spider-man 2 game is a lot 
 better. The Free Rom , That they talk about suchs. This is a o. k. game but the controls are ify. 
 Graphic wise game is decent. Overall this game is rate a 6 from me. I seen perviews and when someone 
 says freerom a person thinks of a first or third person game with a over the shoulder view. This 
 was not that creative as the second game. I have the Spider-man 2 and the views the only thing 
 that suchs about the game. It was so creative with its touch screen movement. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jem_gal
Rating: 8.2
Date: May 20, 2007 9:39 am PT
Review:  Its rare that a movie based game can be this good, and its even rarer that its better that its 
 console counterparts.
  
  Gameplay:
  This by far is one of the smoothest games on the DS, web swinging around town is such absolute 
 fun. The combat system is very fluid and intuitive, you can though I wouldve like to see more 
 variety in the moves, and a higher difficulty.
  
  Graphics:
  For a DS game, the graphics are superb, the level of detail in the background is great, cars are 
 driving by, etc. though the cutscenes are ugly, they couldve done a better job.
  
  Sound:
  Pretty good, fits with the comical side of the game. While you're webswinging Peter says 
 some funny quips, that make web swinging a little less lonely.
  
  Value:
  Really fun game, a higher difficulty wouldve been nice, better cut scene graphics, and longer 
 story. This game won't last you awhile but the fun that you will have with it is worth it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Egei
Rating: 8.5
Date: May 10, 2007 10:46 pm PT
Review:  I had NO intention of getting this game AT ALL when I heard that it was coming out for the DS, 
 because movie games for the DS usually suck; usually the GBA version of the game is better, but 
 not in this case. Spiderman 3 for the DS literally blew me away when I saw some of the videos online 
 for it. After watching 2 or 3 of the online vids, I had to get the game, so I went out that day 
 and picked it up. My first impression of the game was a little iffy when I first got it, because 
 the controls are a little weird, but once you learn how they work, the game is nothing but fun. 
 The fighting is pretty cool; you can actually see spidey do some pretty sweet combo moves, and 
 there is other abilities that you can purchase with cash that you get for killing enemies. The 
 web-slinging is probably my favorite part of the game; Because the entire game is in 3D (and not 
 bad 3D for that matter) When you websling, you can go not only up and down in the world by swinging 
 and climbing, but the game actually takes you through the city by rotating the direction that you 
 are going, which REALLY makes the 3D graphics look good. The game says that you can roam about 
 the city... while this is true in a way, its not completely true; it is basically a 3D side scrolling 
 game which twists and turns down streets and alleys and even takes you inside parking garages and 
 other things like that at times. Another really cool thing about the game is the cinematics between 
 the main parts of the game; These scenes are done in almost a comic book style, but the actors 
 actually talk, which was one of the other things that really surprised me. You can hear people 
 like Peter, MJ, JJ Jameson and others. I haven't gone through the entire game yet, but it doesn't 
 seem REALLY long, so I guess that would have to be my one complaint, but other than that, the game 
 is really cool. HIGHLY recommended for Spiderman fans who own a Nintendo DS. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: noelveiga
Rating: 4
Date: May 7, 2007 3:18 pm PT
Review:  Vicarious Visions is a lousy developer. The Wii version of Spider-man 3 they perpetrated is borderline 
 broken, but you can still play through it. Now, the DS version is actually getting some good reviews 
 despite VV's involvement and I guess my question is WTF?
  
  I mean, the game is totally unplayable. Whoever did come up with a 100% touchscreen control scheme 
 for an action game should be arrested. Most of the time Spider-man is possessed by some sort of 
 seizure, kickstarted by random scribbling on the botom screen. Combat is a matter of pure luck, 
 Spidey could start hitting people really fast or just stand there given the same series of strokes. 
 Navigation is fine, but it's still the 2D fare of previous Spidey games. Pus, what the heck is 
 that thing on Spider-man's arms? Are those web-throwers? Weren't his webs organic in the films?
 
  
  Graphics look nice, but another unbelievably stupid element makes that irrelevant: there's a cursor. 
 A huge friggin' cursor onscreen pretty much at all times. It obscures the view and is distracting 
 as hell. Plus, my hands hurt after two minutes because the game forces a one handed grip while 
 scribbling furiously.
  
  Now, please tell me how this game got better ratings than the huge, if somewhat flawed, PS3/360/PC 
 games on several gaming sites out there. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: steff3121
Rating: 8.4
Date: May 6, 2007 12:22 pm PT
Review:  Everyone was set for a good may month; Lair was set for the eight, it is the last month of school 
 (for most) , and it is when all of the summer blockbusters make their way onto the stage. One such 
 movie was Spiderman 3. But, May also brought some disappointments; Lair was pushed back to July, 
 we have finals, and the Spiderman 3 movie was met with critical dissapointment, calling it the 
 lowpoint of the series. Strange that it rubbed off on its games. Except, surprisingly, on its DS 
 counterpart. To begin, Spiderman 3 tells Peter Parker's story as he deals with life as a married 
 man. He learns that someone else killed his uncle, that his best friend is now a goblin, and that 
 a mysterious black suit is smothering him. So, basically, a great set up for a game. Plenty of 
 evil baddies, a few not in the movie, are all here. The cutscenes are presented as newspaper article 
 pictures, which is neat the first few times, but soon gets to be repetitive. The dialogue that 
 is spoken is a bunch of repeated one liners, and the written dialogue between Parker and his allies 
 is witty, but dry. The hints on the loading screens are funny, and also very true (standing on 
 a grenade when it is thrown is most certainly NOT a good idea) .
  
  Gameplay wise, this is a 2.5D game, meaning it looks 3D, but is a sidescroller. The combat has 
 been moved off of the buttons and onto the touchscreen, which means that attacking involves drawing 
 a line in the direction of the enemy, or drawing special structures for special attacks (the face 
 buttons allow lefties to move around, same as righties) . Though the combat gets repetitive, it 
 is not dull, and the fact that you can purchase upgrades at any time, simply by pausing and selecting 
 the $ icon, is convenient (though, everytime you purchase a new upgrade, the scenario starts over) . 
 The black suit is definitely better looking, as Spidey does a few different animations with this 
 suit, as well as more damage and new attacks. It's easy to activate, too; once the story event 
 that allows you to use it passes, simply attack enemies to build up rage, then keep fighting to 
 stay in the black suit.
  
  The soundtrack is nothing impressive; the music is there, adding some elements, but you wont miss 
 it if you leave the volume off. The soundeffects are bland, but they get the job done. Some of 
 the voiceovers are spotty, but they serve the purpose intended. The cutscene voicework is appropriately 
 better than all else, and is very well done.
  
  Replay value is limited to getting all of the tokens hidden through the game, and a few abilites 
 to purchase from the store upon defeating the game.
  
  While the game has little lasting appeal, it looks fantastic, plays like you always knew it should, 
 and represents one of the better outings for S3 games. It is well worth a trip to Gamestop for 
 $30, and is the best Spiderman on the DS to date. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Gigatron
Rating: 8.8
Date: May 4, 2007 3:15 pm PT
Review:  It hasn't even been three years and Webhead is making his FOURTH appearance on Nintendo's handheld. 
 Vicarious Visions has done a decent job with the Spider-man DS series by making them stylish and 
 action-packed. But thanks to some great design choices, this latest game is easily their best effort 
 yet.
  
  When Ultimate Spider-man for DS came out, it was a very enjoyable action game. This basically plays 
 the same, but there have been some major changes. You now have a free-roaming city to explore. 
 Keep in mind that it's still 2D, but there's a lot more to explore this time around. It's just 
 fun web-slinging around to get a good look at the game's GREAT graphics. They ditched the really 
 cartoony look of USM to better fit the movie, and everything looks fantastic. There's a lot of 
 detail in the characters and environments, and it runs with a silky smooth framerate. As you swing 
 around the city, it has this really cool effect where the camera pans out and so you can really 
 appreciate the nice visuals.
  
  Now I mentioned that this plays like the previous installments, but they've completely overhauled 
 the controls. Movement is controlled by the d-pad, and you use the touch-screen for everything 
 else. With this setup, the combat just feels RIGHT. It's cool to swipe a few punches at the guy, 
 knock him up in the air by stroking up, and double-tapping to web him before you put his lights 
 out. This feels very responsive and satisfying. They've even worked in a really effective combo 
 system so the better you fight, the more points you can get to spend on skills. Using these unique 
 controls, SM3 is simply a FUN experience.
  
  The game follows the plot of the blockbuster that shares its name. They toss in some more villains 
 for good measure, too. The actual missions revolve around you saving innocents and beating down 
 the baddies, and then you encounter a boss. The story cutscenes are told through pages of the Daily 
 Bugle, which is a cool touch. The sound features voice acting from the cast, but it gets pretty 
 repetitive. Rounding out the sound is decent music which is somewhat reminiscent of the movie. 
 Unlike other versions, the DS one actually has multiplayer for 2! There's four different modes 
 of multiplayer, but it's local and multi-card only. It's a really neat extra, and if you have a 
 friend who has the game it's worth a look.
  
  In closing, this is entirely worth your $30. Whether you're an action fan or just a spidey fan, 
 you'll find a lot to enjoy about this game. It seems to have a decent length, and after you're 
 finished there's a few unlockables + multiplayer to keep you busy. I am really enjoying it so far, 
 and for the money this is probably the best version of the game to get. They could have just slapped 
 a Spider-Man 3 title on the last installment, but they go the extra mile and make it fresh for 
 DS owners. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
