-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Spider-Man 2
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/ds/action/spiderman2/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 Great 3D graphics showcase the DS's processing power.
 Fluid animation--that's Spidey all right.
 Some pretty cool boss fights.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 Extremely frustrating level design.
 Doesn't make good use of both screens.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Nov 19, 2004
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 6
Critic Score: 6.4, 58 Review (s)
User Score: 6.2, 843 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Activision
Developer: Vicarious Visions
Genre: Sci-Fi Action Adventure
Date: Nov 16, 2004
ESRB: Everyone

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Spider-Man 2 sure looks great, but it suffers from extremely frustrating level design, and it doesn't 
 really take advantage of the dual-screen layout of Nintendo's new portable, either. 

  Spider-Man 2 is one of the more obviously appealing launch titles for the new Nintendo DS, since 
 it's based on one of the year's best, most popular action movies. The game does a fine job of showcasing 
 the new portable's relative power compared with Nintendo's own Game Boy Advance, in that it features 
 an instantly recognizable, very fluidly animated Spider-Man, who's actually a lot of fun to control 
 as he webswings his way around New York, beating up thugs and robots. Yet while Spider-Man 2 sure 
 looks great, it suffers from extremely frustrating level design (and it doesn't really take advantage 
 of the dual-screen layout of Nintendo's new portable, either) . Some of these levels can be so annoyingly 
 difficult that they'll make you want to wreck your brand-new Nintendo DS. And you wouldn't want 
 to do that.  

          If you thought Peter Parker not being able to tell MJ about his true feelings for her was 
 frustrating, wait'll you see this.     

  You'll play as Spidey in a linear series of chapters that very loosely follow the events of the 
 movie, but also involve battles against supervillains Mysterio and the Vulture, in addition to 
 good old Doc Ock. This is mostly a standard side-scrolling action game, though it features great 
 fully 3D graphics that maintain a beautifully smooth frame rate, despite the good amount of detail 
 in the game's characters and environments. Levels twist and turn in an almost mazelike fashion, 
 but you're always effectively moving left, right, up, or down -- there's no true 3D movement. This 
 is fine, since it keeps the gameplay simple and focused, but with some very pleasant eye candy 
 to draw you in. For comparison's sake, the Game Boy Advance could never pull off 3D visuals like 
 this, so it's impressive to see them on a small screen.  

  Meanwhile, Spider-Man 2's audio is solid but less remarkable. The game's bosses spout a few digitized 
 speech clips, and the random thugs you'll fight cut loose with some great canned scream effects 
 when you send them flying off tall buildings. The music is fast-paced and well suited to the theme 
 of the game, but it's unfortunately cut into short loops, so it becomes highly repetitive and quite 
 irritating after a while. You'll be inclined to turn the volume off, but that's not a good idea -- many 
 of the levels require you to locate bad guys or hostages, whom you can hear offscreen if you listen 
 carefully.  

  As you'd expect, Spider-Man is highly mobile. He can run quickly, jump high, and effectively fly 
 by webswinging from point to point (you just keep tapping the jump button to keep swinging) . He 
 can also shoot webbing onto walls in any direction, pulling himself quickly toward that location. 
 Of course, Spidey can fight, too, primarily using a small assortment of punches and kicks. Most 
 of his enemies actually have a longer reach than he does, forcing you to get in very close and 
 then pound on the opponent using the same combos over and over. The fighting looks pretty good, 
 but just isn't very satisfying, especially when your enemies pin you down with a string of cheap 
 shots. One neat trick is that you can trigger Spidey's spider senses while in close combat, causing 
 the action to move in slow motion, though this can be detrimental in the timed missions -- the mission 
 timer doesn't slow down when everything else does. Spider-Man also has access to several special 
 moves (most of which must be unlocked) , allowing him to throw his enemies using his webbing, shoot 
 web projectiles at him, execute a sliding attack, and more. Again, the character really looks great 
 in motion, and the controls are generally very responsive. The best part of the game, much like 
 in its console counterparts, is how well it captures the feel of Spider-Man's amazing agility. 

  This is obviously very important for a game based on the character, and it makes Spider-Man 2's 
 poor level design even more disappointing. Many of the missions require you to take out a certain 
 number of enemies, or locate a certain number of objects, and then make it to the exit -- occasionally 
 in a limited amount of time. The game's hazardous environments (fires and exposed electrical circuits 
 are a common sight) and fairly powerful bad guys make these types of tasks inherently challenging. 
 What can make them infuriating, though, is that you don't have any way of knowing where you have 
 and haven't explored, short of memorizing the game's sprawling levels. There's no map to guide 
 you around a mission, no sort of waypoint marker to direct you to your next objective, and no way 
 to see past the edges of the screen without moving in the direction you're searching in. So you 
 just have to explore, and in many cases painstakingly hunt down that very last bad guy or hostage 
 under time pressure. Imagine spending nearly 15 minutes hunting down two or three dozen bad guys, 
 only to run out of time or get knocked into a bottomless pit with just one or two bad guys remaining, 
 and being forced to start the process all over, and you'll have a clear picture of what Spider-Man 
 2's gameplay boils down to more often than not. This is not fun.  

  The game's smattering of boss battles are a good change of pace, at least. These supervillains 
 will attack in various patterns, so you'll need to avoid their strikes and retaliate with your 
 relatively wimpy punches and kicks. Sometimes they'll start throwing stuff at you, which moves 
 the action onto the DS's bottom screen, where you'll need to tap on the incoming projectiles to 
 destroy them. This mechanic is somewhat novel, but it isn't very challenging, and it's actually 
 sort of annoying to have to switch from moving and attacking with the D pad and buttons to using 
 the stylus.  

          Spider-Man 2 demonstrates that the DS can do some great-looking 3D, but it's much better 
 as a technological showcase than as a game.     

  For most of the game, though, the DS's bottom screen is squandered. You use it to check your mission 
 objectives and choose from Spider-Man's special abilities, but you'll probably just stick to one 
 or two favorites, so this functionality could have been easily serviced by a pause menu. Some textual 
 dialogue also occasionally pops up on the bottom screen, but since the bottom screen usually serves 
 no purpose, it only makes the absence of any sort of in-game map all the more glaring.  

  Spider-Man 2 technically isn't a long game, since it consists of about 15 levels that can be finished 
 in five to 10 minutes on average -- but it can be so difficult that you might never reach the finish 
 line. There's always room for greatly challenging gaming experiences, but the challenge here mostly 
 just comes from having to work around lousy level designs. For what it's worth, though, the game 
 has some unlockable extras and bonus objectives, and it challenges you to complete the missions 
 in as little time as possible (indeed, the first time you actually manage to pass one of these 
 levels, chances are you'll have earned an F or maybe a D for your efforts -- gee, thanks) . So, in 
 theory, you could memorize all these levels and where their dozens of enemies and other points 
 of interest are located, and then keep playing them over and over for more-efficient results. But, 
 in practice, you'll probably become frustrated by the fact that this game's mazelike levels and 
 stringent victory conditions undermine what could have been a much more entertaining experience. 
     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (57 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: coolkid93
Rating: 3.5
Date: Jan 3, 2008 11:12 pm PT
Review:  I got this game and it is a disapointment. I am a spiderman fan and on this game it was a total 
 let down. I dont like this game. It is a BIG Waste Of Time.
  I would not even buy it if the price was 10 cents. this is the most worst spiderman game ever created. 
 the grapics are pretty good but the game Doesn't make good use of both screens. 
  learning the game takes about about 40minutes. The controls are not good and the level design stinks. 
 The story also involve fights against Mysterio, Vulture, and Doc Ock. this game is really a waste 
 of money.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Justin72991
Rating: 1
Date: Sep 14, 2007 4:12 pm PT
Review:  This was my first ds game and i thought it would be like the gamecube version where you can go 
 wherever you wanted. Boy, was I wrong. All you do is walk abound a sidescrolling stage and try 
 to beat impossible tasks. The use of the dual screen was to pick a move. There were barely any 
 moves to use that made this game fun. I still cant belive i brought this game. this is a definate 
 dont buy!!! If you ever think about buying this game think again and save yourself the money. Its 
 not worth it ! Think about it before you buy this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sbmikkim
Rating: 2.5
Date: Aug 23, 2007 2:33 pm PT
Review:  I was starting to write different review styles... but for this game im not going to waste my time 
 doing so!
  
  Just wow... this game has horrible everything, and everyone who owns this should sell it for 5 bucks 
 to your friend. I can't even sell it cause no one wants it.
  
  This game lacks everything...
  
  Cruddy music, Boring and horribly made gameplay, Not your 
 average graphics at all for a ds but not that bad, And no value what so ever.
  
  Never buy spiderman games for the DS... ever!
  
  I like it way more on my Gamecube and i don't 
 know why this was even called a game... to me it looks like a horrible first game demo.
  
  Spiderman never looked so dull... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: KingThorin
Rating: 3.5
Date: Jun 29, 2007 6:35 pm PT
Review:  Fist of all it's too difficult. There's only one mode of play which is story. you can only advance 
 if you beat the level. the game is fun at first. you have a good amount of moves and it runs smoothly. 
 you beat up a couple a guys within the time limit. but after the first few levels they become almost 
 impossible. its very frustrating to keep trying over and over until you beat the level. they also 
 use the same places but with more guys in it. the time limit becomes unresonable and they guys 
 you face are 10 times stronger than you.
  
  this game isnt worth the money. it will last you 2 days tops. don't be pulled in by the flashy 
 screen shots during the epilogues 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lilhawkkid182
Rating: 5.6
Date: Jun 18, 2007 6:34 pm PT
Review:  When I was looking for a cheap game for my Nintendo DS I stumbled upon Spiderman 2: The Movie. 
 Now I knew that this game didn't get the greatest reviews but seeing as how I enjoyed Goldeneye 
 Rouge Agent and Splinter Cell Chaos Theory. I decided that I would give this game a spin and see 
 if behind all the mediocre reviews if there really was a fun game just waiting for me to play. 
 Well I was wrong in picking this game up. When you first start this game you will probably think 
 that it is pretty cool how the game has the gameplay of a 2D beat-em-up sidescroller with 3D graphics, 
 this is until you get to the games flawed level design and frustrating objectives. So many things 
 that you have to do in the game are so far out of the way of what your main objective is that you 
 will want to throw your DS up against the wall. For example, I have to get to the Oscorp (or whatever 
 it is) headquarters, but first I have to save fifteen or twenty people from muggers and I am completely 
 fine with this until I get to the building and realize that there were ten hostages I went past. 
 So then I go back and find some of the other victims and then I realize that I have less than a 
 minute left on the clock. This game will drive you insane. The boss battles though are a nice break 
 from the randomness and the frustration of the other single player levels and the impossible times 
 that they set for you in order to get a good score. You probably have to play through the game 
 so many times to get the scores that are set for you, but I have no idea why someone would want 
 to do that because this game is just that bad. The graphics in this game are probably the best 
 part of it seeing as how the game came out at the beginning of the DS it doesn't look all that 
 bad. However it is no where near as pretty as Super Mario 64 DS, but it is better looking than 
 games like Madden and such. The sound in this game is terrible. But sadly in order to find the 
 hostages and muggers you have to have the sound on because you can hear them yelling for some help, 
 it of course is the same voice for all the women in the game and all the men in the game, and the 
 cutscenes have no voiceovers either. The music in the background is beyond bland and you will prey 
 for levels with no hostages so you don't have to listen to it. This game controls pretty well for 
 the DS's d-pad but I can imagine them being much better if there were an analog stick to play with 
 instead, the touch screen is used in mini-games and that is about it. Pros: + Looks pretty good 
 + Controls are pretty good + Boss battles save from repetitive single player Cons: - Gameplay - 
 Mission objectives are out of your way' - The times for getting good scores are ridiculous - Doesn't 
 really take advantage of touch screen features 
::::::

::::::
UserName: PS2player9X99
Rating: 7
Date: May 26, 2007 12:49 pm PT
Review:  Spider man 2 is a game that you can pick up and takes around thirty minutes to get used to. There 
 are flaws and some pros. Spiderman 2 is a Free Roaming action adventure game. It is like a Grand 
 Theft Auto but with out the killing and all the swearing. It is a very influential comic video 
 game. It has revolutionized the spider man universe. I bought this game for because my friend got 
 it and it was very fun. The PS2 version is better than the Xbox version, in my opinion. Spiderman 
 two delivers some flaws to the game. Like the voice acting is not the best. They do not seem excited 
 even in the most climatic parts of the game. When you go to a pedestrian to ask what is wrong the 
 give no expression. It gets repetitive fast. Swing to a the builing place and beat up bad guys. 
 The pedestrain missions are usealluy the same thing. beat up thugs is all you do.
  
  Overall Spiderman 2 is a very fun game but gets repetitive fast.
  Pretty fun with the touch screen. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 987654321y
Rating: 1.3
Date: Mar 28, 2007 10:45 am PT
Review:  This Game Sucks...
  Like All The Bad Guys Cann Kill You And Stuff...
  The Bad Guys Are Really Hard In The 3rd Level And U Got To Beat Em All In Like 5 Minutes...
  
 one of da guiz no like tank thing and the guy starts shu ting you with a maching gun thing...
 
  It s Really Annoying How That Guy Just Tries To Kill You ...
  Also I Cant Get Past The Third Level
  And All The Guys With Out Guns Have Like 3 People With 
 Pipes Near Each other Ones.
  It Is Revolutionary ...
  But For The Wrong Reasons...
  Please Dont Send Me Hate Mail...
  Actually Hate PMs 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Nykchevy
Rating: 7.3
Date: Jan 21, 2007 11:00 am PT
Review:  I got this game when I went to gamestop to trade in 4 of my games. Jade Empire, Fantastic Four, 
 and 2 Yougioh games. I ended up getting six dollars. I checked the price of this game used because 
 I knew the ratings were bad so it would be in high supply. It was eight dollars so I figured why 
 not. When I went home to play it I was happy. Yes the levels are frustraing but Spidey is very 
 well controled and it feels good playing him. I would get this game if you really want a spiderman 
 experiece but otherwise I'd wait for Spiderman 3. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Trpjazz
Rating: 2.9
Date: Jan 14, 2007 8:00 pm PT
Review:  this game is a disgrace to video games across the nation.... It was probably one of the most disappointing 
 launch games for the DS.... This game was so crappy that it wouldnt have made it if it was released 
 on the atari... The graphics stink and only camera angle is a side view which is retarded bc DS 
 has so much potential to be a great portable 3D gaming system (proved in Mario 64 for the DS) the 
 game is actually challenging though but i personally got bored of seeing the same thing over again.... 
 it reminds me a lot of donkey kong for atari except for this game is not as fun lol but needless 
 to say this game was very very terrible... The other Spiderman video games were great though 
::::::

::::::
UserName: curty_flurty
Rating: 3
Date: Dec 31, 2006 9:16 pm PT
Review:  unfortunatly, this game is bad.. i wish they made it better. i hope spider NYC is way better.. 
 because this title is bad.. the action is bad, the fighting is bad, the timelimit is annoying, 
 and i think they should remake the game. it feels like a 2D game, and the music gets really irritating..
 
  
  i reccommend you to look around, because this gets really boring and frustrating, it would be more 
 relaxed and better if they did not include the timelimits.
  
  look around for better game, they best game out is metroid prime: hunters, i reccommend everyone 
 to get that game..
  
  ~~~***JOIN METROID WIFI UNION***~~~ 
::::::

::::::
UserName: snarekick
Rating: 5.6
Date: Dec 24, 2006 11:51 pm PT
Review:  The Good: Great graphics; Sounds good.
  
  The Bad: Not much use for the touch screen; can get extremely boring; the grading thing can make 
 you feel stressed; time limits are no fun.
  
  Spider-Man 2 is a failure on the DS. There's not much good to be found here, except for great sound 
 and overall, good graphics.
  
  Sadly, the poor qualities of this game can not forgive the few things it delivers. You can't use 
 the touch screen much, except for choosing your powers. And who likes being graded on how they 
 play video games? If you do, you'll love the built in grading thing that tells you how well you 
 did on a level. And who likes being timed? A big, Big, BIG, mistake. Takes all the fun out of it, 
 even though it already is boring.
  
  If you want a Spider-Man experience like no other, leave this one to the side. You'll want to forget 
 you bought it, borrowed it, rented it, etc. It really isn't that good. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mariofan22
Rating: 3.1
Date: Dec 10, 2006 8:11 pm PT
Review:  When I picked this one off the shelf, I was rather excited about playing. I thought it'd be all 
 fun n' games - the console versions were supposedly great, so why not the DS?
  
  As I began to play, I was extremely excited. The graphics were superb - full 3D rendering, up to 
 near Super Mario 64 quality. It was, oddly enough, a 3D side-scroller, and I wasn't to complain.
 
  
  Imagine however, that you are in a building with four floors, and there are guys inside, say, fifteen. 
 Inside elsewhere, there are a total of five hostages, and you have to find them.
  
  Without a map to know where you've gone, you look around, clueless. When you start going through 
 the same tutorial tip blurbs, you know it's not going too well.
  
  After four dismal tries, I finally passed to the next level, which wasn't much better. With your 
 goal to kill every enemy there was, leaving one behind is a nightmare, especially indoors.
  
  The game is notable for showing possibly the worst level design ever made for wide release. 
 At least most bad games have easy design - this one is so frustrating, you feel like chucking your 
 DS into the wall. Spiderman should be able to web up whoever he wants, and it shouldn't be a pain 
 to move around. Yet, instead, you find yourself webbing accidentally into fire inside, or being 
 unable to find that last thug to kill before the boss battle.
  
  Such is the plight of superheroes apparently.
  
  If I haven't convinced you how horrible this 
 game is, I will say this: I could not have picked a more abysmal piece of garbage to throw into 
 my DS, and I regret the purchase. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ---DSLite ---
Rating: 8.6
Date: Aug 21, 2006 1:52 am PT
Review:  Gameplay:
  The gameplay in Spiderman 2 is brilliant and is faithful to the Spiderman name. You can swing rooftops, 
 bash baddies, shoot webs, you can do all your ordinary favourite web slingers moves. The only problem 
 with the gameplay is the game is extremely hard at some points. For example in Chapter 3 you are 
 on a time limit. A time limit that you must finish the mission by which is almost impossible. The 
 game has few glitches in the gameplay and when there is a glitch it is something miniscule which 
 will not really alter your gaming experience.
  
  Graphics:
  The graphics in Spiderman 2 are an excellent fusion of 2D and 3D enviroments which is something 
 you really have to see for yourself and when compared to the GBA is absolutely stunning. Fire looks 
 especially good. Several times in the game you will have to pass fire and the detail is excellent. 
 There are also good video clips which truly show what the DS is capable of.
  
  Sound:
  The sound and music in Spiderman 2 is nothing worth mentioning. It is not bad but it is not good 
 either. It does not stand out at all except for certain times when victims yell out to you 'help 
 spiderman' or when they yell 'thanks spiderman'. The soundtrack while you are in game will not 
 stick in your head and you propably arent going to remember anything of it, I sure know i can't.
 
  
  Value:
  I just so happened to get my copy of Spiderman 2 at a clearance sale and it was the last copy that 
 they had (and are going to get) instock. It was about 75% off of the regular price so I am totally 
 happy with the value. All in all if you have a lot of patience and are very good at side scrolling 
 platformers you will propably be able to finish this game although some Chapters are nearly impossible. 
 But for those of you who like a decent soundtrack, look elsewhere. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Jera372
Rating: 1
Date: Aug 13, 2006 5:31 pm PT
Review:  Spider -Man 2 sucks. This is one of the worst games that I have ever played. The graphics sucks 
 the game play is horrible and it is a complete waste of time... do not buy, do not rent. 6.0 is 
 too much for this game. It is not for gamers at all. There is no enjoying this game. It should 
 be put to bed it's so bad. Save your money and your time. There is nothing enjoyable about this 
 game what so ever. What else can I say about this game? I was very upset when I saw the graphics 
 and heard the crappy sound. So what you can swing... big deal! after you read my review, go rent 
 something else and then you will thank me later. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: seun_07
Rating: 6
Date: Jul 6, 2006 10:22 am PT
Review:  Spider man 1 and 2 (enter electro) on the playstation were really great games and I expected the 
 DS version of the game to follow the same trend.
  
  Spider man 2 on the DS has good graphics, but everything else that made spiderman on the playstation 
 interesting for me was pretty much lacking on this version.
  
  Unlike the playstation spiderman, the plot and storyline of this game is quite uninteresting. (The 
 storyline in the playstation made the game fun to play for me because you were trying to unravel 
 some mystery.) You are basically put in an environment and you have to kill all the bad guys, sometimes 
 within a specific time limit and this happens for every level. The fact that the game is short 
 does not help matters either.
  
  Also, that you have to unlock most of the moves (which you can already do in the playstation version) 
 is not cool.
  
  Looking at their success with spiderman 1 and 2 on the playstation, I expected Activision and vicarious 
 vision to release another great spiderman game.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: hipppvix
Rating: 6
Date: Jul 5, 2006 12:01 pm PT
Review:  This game is so boring, so far it seems the DS does not have that many good games out, or at least 
 ones that I have played. This game is suppose to be based on the movie Spider Man 2 but I don't 
 see much comparison. And it is nothing like the other Spider Man 2 games, which are actually based 
 on the movie. So I would say not to buy this game, I mean it's fun for a while but, it get boring 
 and really repetitive. All you do is fly and save people over and over and over again. If you do 
 want to buy or play a Spider Man game get one for the Xbox or Gamecube. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rokkuman09
Rating: 5.3
Date: Jun 30, 2006 11:26 am PT
Review:  Gameplay:
  The gameplay is very dull for this game. It is much more challenging than it needs to be many times 
 because of the badly designed levels. Ya it's crap bassically I warn you just don't play this game 
 even if you find it for $5.00 dollars its not worth that much! In fact you will almost feel if 
 you should be paid to play this game! When you wish to select diffrent attacks you have to tap 
 a button on the bottom screen which is cumbersome because you have to use both hands to control 
 already because almost all the controls are on the face buttons. So it really doesn't take good 
 use of the DS's abilties.
  
  Graphics:
  There slightly below average for DS games. There very blocky but since your usaully zoomed out 
 pretty far from the action you don't notice it most of the time.
  
  Sound:
  The sound is just alright nothing really exciting.
  
  Value:
  Bad! The game isn't that long 
 but you'll get stuck on levels too many times because of the extreme difficulty so you'll try to 
 beat a level so many times that you'll almost throw your DS out of the window in frustration! Ya 
 basically this game is a quick cash in for a movie.
  
  The final score is 5.4 medicore ouch! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Chrisdinozilla
Rating: 2.7
Date: Jun 21, 2006 2:52 pm PT
Review:  Just yesterday, my brother bought this game due to the lack of DS games I currently have. He loved 
 it, but I have very diffrent views.
  
  First off, the gameplay is horrible. Beating up baddies is an effort, and using most web powers 
 is an effort. Beating this game is almost as hard as liking it, due to it's difficulty and horrible 
 levels. Not to mention the lousy and annoying voice acting. The worst part? It barely takes advantage 
 of the DS's touch screen control. Then again, if the programmers did, this game would probably 
 be a lot worse.
  
  Overall, there is not much else that can be said about this piece of junk except the cliche' phrase, 
 "don't buy it". 
::::::

::::::
UserName: coltfan469
Rating: 2.7
Date: Aug 3, 2006 4:57 pm PT
Review:  Good:
  
  - Barely anything that I can find
  - Storyline sort of follows the movie but in a boring way
  
  Bad:
  
  - TOO HARD
  - Boring 
 after just a little bit of playing time
  - Graphics and the screen makes you want to throw up
  
  Bottom Line:
  
  -I'll be as honest 
 as I can be here. If you want one of the worst games in the world spend your money on this game. 
 You will become sick from the graphics after getting frusterated after just playing for 10 mins. 
 If you want to have fun playing games or if you are a hardcore gamer do not give this one a try. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jordanj701
Rating: 3
Date: Feb 5, 2006 9:56 am PT
Review:  Spider-man 2 just was plain horrible. I mean it tries to use the DS capabilities but it still sucks. 
 The graphics are horrible and a side scroller what were they thinking. I mean if they can make 
 a game like a 3d game like super mario 64 ds then they should have made this game a 3d game. This 
 game was amazingly easy I beat it in no more than 2 hours. What I hate the most is if you want 
 to do a different move than you have to look on the touch screen and press something. The boss 
 battles are all the same I mean you dodge some stuff you attack the boss and repeat. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: arignious2254
Rating: 7.2
Date: Feb 4, 2006 2:09 pm PT
Review:  i bought this game for my DS and i was ready for a good game, it was fun but i expected more, the 
 graphics were good, sound sucked, the game is a disapointment.                                 
                                                                          
::::::

::::::
UserName: cdogg06
Rating: 6.2
Date: Jan 27, 2006 5:02 am PT
Review:  To get this game, i bought it in a bundle in the DS set. The first time i played it, it gave me 
 a good first impresion of the DS. However its not tumbs up 4 the gameplay as the fighting quickly 
 grows thin. You can barely hear the music, if it was louder. I'am sure the music will be catchy 
 and cool, a nice combanation to the game. The graphics is... MASTERPIECE, the best Graphics i seen 
 in a portable handheld. If you have extra money after buying all your DS cards, this is a good bet, have 
 a taste of DS graphics. Overal-Make it your last choice for DS games. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Yoshinator64
Rating: 3.9
Date: Dec 30, 2005 8:51 am PT
Review:  All the others were great why did the DS need to suffer this?
  
  Spider-Man 2 For the DS (also the consoles) is the most frustrating game. ever! when you get hit 
 once your pretty much dead. why? well spider-man forgets how to stand up when he's getting his 
 ass kicked.
  
  Activision (or who ever made this crappy game) used the DS's Touch Screen technology badly. even 
 the Touch puzzles are hard.
  
  just get the console verison of Spider-Man 2 it's way way better. or even the first Spider-Man 
 i liked that one though you don't get to roam freely... or ever see the ground.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: SmashAndRun
Rating: 7.4
Date: Dec 21, 2005 12:13 pm PT
Review:  Spiderman 2 is one of the more obviously appealing launch titles for Nintendo DS. The game does 
 a fine job of showcasing the new portable's relative power compared with Nintendo's own Game Boy 
 Advance. As Spiderman you swing around New York City beating up thugs and robots. Yet, while Spider-Man 
 2 sure looks great, it suffers from extremely frustrating level design. Some of these levels can 
 be so annoyingly difficult that they'll make you want to wreck your brand-new Nintendo DS. And 
 you wouldn't want to do that.
  
  In this game you will be following the story line in the movie. Except that you will be fighting 
 a new set of villains that are only seen in the Spiderman show. You will also be fighting a new 
 villain. His name is Doc Ock. This game uses mostly the upper screen on the DS. The bottom screen 
 is used mainly for selecting a move and selecting things on the menu. At least you wont scratch 
 up your touch screen with this game. There are also good 3-D graphics that the GBA or GBASP could 
 have never pulled off. Overall this game is pretty good.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Hatreds_Love
Rating: 7
Date: Dec 19, 2005 10:02 pm PT
Review:  This game wasn't really worth the money of which I paid for it. It's a side-scroller, which really 
 gets on my nerves as it's for the Nintendo DS and should take advantage of the new graphics card. 
 The graphics in the game ARE good but the side-scrolling, 2D action is annoying. I think you should 
 give this game a pass, unless you think you would enjoy a game of this genre. It IS challenging, 
 I must say. It took me awhile to beat and I still haven't beat everything 100%. It doesn't really 
 have replay value, but you can play it again if you have nothing else without cursing the game. 
 Borrow this game from a friend first, as it isn't the most brilliant game... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dodgersrock
Rating: 3.9
Date: Dec 17, 2005 10:21 pm PT
Review:  When I first saw Spider Man 2 for the DS I wasnt going to get it, but by friend had told me good 
 thing s about this game so I had to try it for myself. I was disappointed with the sound and the 
 game play, because the entire thing was flat! It was easy to get lost in the flat levels, and the 
 fire was incredibly annoying. The sound was absolutely horrible, yet the game has a huge gap with 
 the volume off. I do not recommend this game for anyone with a Nintendo DS, or anyone thinking 
 of buying a Nintendo DS. It is defiantly a enormous waist of money. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: killerdestroyer
Rating: 1.5
Date: Dec 17, 2005 6:50 am PT
Review:  this is the kind of game where you go on a linear path, horrible gameplay, and is very VERY reppetitive. 
 i dont know exactly how much this fails at all points. the ai is horrible, the boss battles are 
 too hard, and whats with the impossible way to unlock the special moves? at first this seems like 
 a good 3-D side scroller... then after you beat it (assuming you haven't took it and threw it at 
 your dog to eat it like a week-old cheeseburger) you will want to throw up. i hope this game will 
 improve whenever the next comes out. if not... dont buy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Wario1939
Rating: 2.5
Date: Dec 16, 2005 8:42 pm PT
Review:  This has got to the most terrible game I have played in my entire life! And not to mention the 
 game is so hard that it's almost impossible to beat some certain levels.
  
  GamePlay:
  
  When I first opened this game I thought it would be cool. To my surprise it was 2-d side scrolling 
 game with somewhat 3-d graphics. I was extremely disappointed. And the bad guys can kill you so 
 easily and when you die you start the level from the very begining. This makes the game frustrating. 
 The only good parts about the game are the boss battles when you get to tap the stuff that the 
 guy is throwing at you or tap the clones of that one alien guy. But overall, most likely you'll 
 just put this game down same time you start playing it.
  
  Graphics:
  
  Not much to say here. The graphics on this game are pretty good for a hand-held. But I don't feel 
 there the best they can be on some parts of the game.
  
  Sound:
  
  The sound is good until you start hearing the same exact sounds over and over again. Ever played 
 one of those games where whenever your guy gets hurt he'll just go "Aw" in a painful way over and 
 over again? Well yeah this games no exception...
  
  Value:
  
  If you really want to try this game I extremely suggest waiting till it goes down to like 15 bucks. 
 THIS GAME IS DEFINITELY NOT WORTH YOUR 30$ DOLLARS!
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Tekmazter
Rating: 5.7
Date: Dec 16, 2005 11:41 am PT
Review:  I never played the original Spider Man so I'm not sure what part 2 is up against here. However, 
 needless to say, I have formed an opinion of this one in a rather short period of time. Albeit 
 a mixed one at that.
  
  The controls are fairly easy to get the hang of on this game, but what does make it a little tricky 
 is the gameplay using both screens. It becomes difficult at times to manage the action when trying 
 to move through the levels while keeping an eye on both screens at the same time. Additionally, 
 the game can get downright boring at times, but there appears to be enough here to make this at 
 least a recommended 'rent it first' game. There's really not much else to say about this one other 
 than it's not unique in any real sort of way. 
  
  Spiderman diehards will probably go for it more than just an action seeker. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: vaskodogama
Rating: 8.1
Date: Dec 15, 2005 6:06 am PT
Review:  I bought this game now, I played it about 2 Hours, It's not bad, but if you are going to buy it, 
 first rent it, then make your decision.
  It's a Left-Right controlling game, enemies are hard to beat just like the missions so dont be 
 disappointed, but controlling the spiderman is good. the story is just like the film with additional 
 missions, have a little of character sounds but the music on mission is good. the powers of the 
 spiderman will help you beat the enemies if you choose them wisely. you can web the walls to fly 
 over buildings, enemies, and etc. you can stick to a wall for going up on them, throw webs on enemies 
 or tackle them. like what I said, the powers are so usefull.... 
  the game has no good use in the lower touch screen and it almost runs at the top screen. 
  at 
 last if you are a fan of spiderman games, you'll like it, like I do...
  It worths to be played once to know about the game. it is Really hard to describe, it needs your 
 opinion.... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: peterandbeer
Rating: 2.2
Date: Dec 13, 2005 12:56 pm PT
Review:  First off let me say that this game is horrible and a big waste of my time. I highly suggest now 
 that you dont spend your money on this game. The gameplay is horrible and some times the controls 
 are non resoponsive and there is too much to keep track of on each level. This is s side scroller 
 thats not entirely a sidescroller. You dont even have to unlock anything to beat the game and to 
 add to that the game is way to short. You might take a while to beat it becuase the weird level 
 design. Overall this is not a smart choice for the DS instead use your money on the console Spiderman 
 which was good. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: EliteDForce
Rating: 2.2
Date: Dec 12, 2005 4:10 pm PT
Review:  This game was by far a gigantic disappointment, but more so a ugly mark on the DS's games in general. 
 Anyone coned into buying this game, i truly pity you, this game is boring, frustrating, hardly 
 utilizes the touch screen and has sound that just further amps up your hatred toward it. The moves 
 get unimpressive and just turn into gimmicks within minutes and the bosses are boring and overall 
 the game seems like it repeats the same level over and over with a new ugly looking character design 
 for your enemy and a new uneventful mission to object, witch generally consists of searching for 
 something, killing enemies, and repeat. This game has a deep dark spot in my mind, i far from recommend 
 this to the even most naive gamers. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mighty_shark
Rating: 6
Date: Dec 9, 2005 11:05 am PT
Review:  This game could have been so good, but they really screwed this one up.
  
  The graphics to this game are actually good. They graphics are 3D with a 2D background. But the 
 gameplay lets this game down.
  
  Basically all you have to do in this game is find/kill a certain amount of people in each mission. 
 However, this gets extremely repetitiveand there is no radar to tell you where the people that 
 you are looking for are.
  
  There is not much else to say about this game. Just stay away from it. Buy any console version 
 of it or the new Ultimate Spider Man as they are much better than this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bwolf92
Rating: 1
Date: Dec 7, 2005 11:04 am PT
Review:  My god this does this game ever SUCK MAJOR BALLS!!!!!!!!!!!!!!! Oh yey, you're Spider-Man, out 
 to stop evil vilians from killing everyone. You know, right now I'd rather be killed by some evil 
 genius than play this flying pile of monkey fieces EVER again. The control: CRAP. Graphics: almost 
 none but CRAP. All sound: CRAP. You look up this disgusting load up garbage up in the dictionary 
 and guess what you'll get: CRAP. You'll be scared for life if you play this too long. I'd really 
 rather play one of those Barbie games more than this. Yes, it is THAT painful. Not much else to 
 say. Although I wish I could rate this lower than an a 1.0 but eh what're you gonna do. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sonic_X
Rating: 6.5
Date: Nov 20, 2005 8:53 pm PT
Review:  THIS GAME AINT ALL ITS CRACKED UP TO 
  Some peps say this game is great, others say it sucks, I say take those two opinions and put em 
 together to form a game that is okay and keeps you busy on those long road trips to places youve 
 never heard about. Spidey delivers enough action for the gamers just looking for a good time but 
 may not pass the standards for those people who eat, sleep, and think games. my general view of it 
 is: if you're caught in a drought with no good games, and you just want to play even if its lame, 
 go to your local gamestore and say, i want Spider-man 2 so lead me to the pre-played tray. And 
 on top off all that disappointment it only has 14 levels What tha #@$! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bradfordbulls
Rating: 6.5
Date: Nov 18, 2005 11:30 am PT
Review:  This game is a good game filled with lots of action packed adventure a good game for all ages or 
 any gender.
  
  GRAPHICS.
  
  The graphics with this game are great they make spidey look great and badies to everything stands 
 out well.
  
  GAMEPLAY.
  
  teh gameplay with this game is orite but i think spidey shud be able to be able to move around 
 more not just right and left that would make the game more certanley better.
  
  SOUND.
  
  The sound on this game is also orite but is not very entertaining at all is always very sad 
 music not much talkind involved not very good.
  
  VALUE.
  
  The value of this game is good as it isn't as dear as the rest as it is'nt as good game as the 
 rest.
  
  BAD.
  
  The sound and gameplay fr this game are not very good and are the worst points about this game.
 
  
  GOOD.
  
  The best thing about this game is the graphics they are smashing and also the value is good for 
 this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Cool_Grant
Rating: 6.8
Date: Nov 13, 2005 1:14 pm PT
Review:  Spiderman 2 for the DS was my first game for the DS. It was quite fun, and some levels were challenging. 
 Until i made it to more levels that were just plain difficult. 
  The Graphics in this game are quite good. You can tell you are in New York, and Spiderman is very 
 smooth with what he does.
  The sound is also very good, while it has good music, and sound effects such as peter parker getting 
 hurt, and explosions.
  The gameplay is OK. It can sometimes be hard to remember what you are doing, and sometimes they 
 aren't responsive, but other than that there isn't anything wrong with it.
  As i said before this game is HARD. You don't have a map to look at to see where you are, and you 
 will die alot. ALOT. But overall, a great experiance fell a little short. I still recommend you 
 pick it up. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rpar256
Rating: 3.4
Date: Nov 11, 2005 11:11 am PT
Review:  I have three word to say about this game, Don't buy it. When I played this game I expected at least 
 some of the same elements that were is the console versions. The game does not take advatage of 
 the touch screen well and I hate how it looks like a 2D scroller. The gameply gets very tedious 
 and boring fast. The touch screen is only used breifly in the game. To deflect debris in a fight 
 with Doc Ock otherwise the touch screen realy isnt used much. If you like bad ports of good console 
 games then buy this game. Otherwise, save your money for better games. Use that money to get the 
 console version of it which is in my opinion, a very good game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DarkDante152
Rating: 7
Date: Aug 24, 2005 11:01 pm PT
Review:  Spider-Man 2 for the DS is a bit different from the other versions. On the DS it's two 2D on two 
 screens. Now Spider-Man 2 for the DS dosen't make use of the DS's two screens. The bottom screen 
 shows all your moves, no thier is no map and all those timed missions will piss you off. It's fun 
 beating up the enemies, but having to go through the same place in the level over and over again 
 is a pain. The sound is pretty good and the story is the same as ever. If you need a spidy fix for 
 your DS, then buy or rent Spider-Man 2 for the DS 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ctkxtreme
Rating: 5.9
Date: Jan 20, 2006 7:18 pm PT
Review:  Spider-Man 2 is what it sounds like, it's based on the movie that hit July 2004. The DS version 
 has nice graphics, but the game doesn't use the touch screen, and the gameplay isn't all that great.
 
  
  The gameplay for Spider-Man 2 is not all it's supposed to be. The controls are easy to use, unless 
 you have big fingers. The touch screen shows what special moves you can use and then you press 
 R to use them. Now it seems that the game doesn't like the touch screen, seeing on all you do is 
 touch a move and then do it. But it does beat pressing start and changing moves, or pressin like 
 9 buttons to do one move. Now the bad guys are the worst. Yes, you have to fight them. They look 
 easy when you punch and kick, but they're not. The bad guys come to you and punch and kick and 
 when you try punching and kicking, you don't get the chance to hit back. There aren't that many, 
 and they aren't different entirely. One rams at you and when you try to jump, he already hit you. 
 Or one with a crowbar that just keeps hitting. Or the bad guys with the guns, they can shoot you 
 anywhere, and you have to be quick to kill them, if you get the chance. Now the levels. Yes the 
 levels have details, but they aren't easy either. Even the first level has you confused for minutes 
 wondering where you are. The levels goes topsy-turvy by making you go to one side, and spend 10 
 minutes, and then you have another side to defeat which takes 10 minutes. The problem is that they 
 have extra objectives telling you to finish the level in 6 minutes, but wait, you just went through 
 20 minutes going through one level, and now you have to play it again?
  
  The DS holds graphics of Nintendo 64. Now, Spider-Man 2 looks great on the DS, but it doesn't exactly 
 say "saving the world." The world seems to be fine, even with Doc Ock trying to rule. You see the 
 town with buildings and a bunch of people that just stand there and meanwhile, Spider-Man does 
 all the work. Especially with hostages, all of them in the game bow down while the bad guy has 
 a gun, and when you come in, they run away and say thanks. For doing all the work?!
  
  The sound is not exactly great, When you play the game, you notice that you have to save hostages 
 (Don't all superheroes do that?) . But the hostages keep saying "Help, wait!" or "Help Spider-Man!" 
 and it gets annoying when you hear them wanting you to save them, then they go "Thanks Spider-Man." 
 It gets annoying listening to them over and over in each level and you not saving them will just 
 make them do that more.
  
  The replay value for the game is not as good as the console version. You have went through 14 levels, 
 and then you're done. Now what? Nothing. After you beat the game, you can play it again, as if 
 the game wasn't hard enough playing the first time. The only thing would be to pretend you don't 
 know the story, and you've never played the game before to like playing the game again. But it 
 is nice that the game features 14 levels, but they don't feel finished.
  
  There are games that are like Spider-Man 2, but they are better or worse. This is really in the 
 middle. Spider-Man fans (like me) who need to play every single Spider-Man game ever made, should 
 rent this, but you'll find better games than Spider-Man 2 in a store. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Matt121489
Rating: 7.4
Date: Jul 18, 2005 9:18 pm PT
Review:  Spiderman 2 for the Nintendo DS is just an alright game to me. The graphics are good and the gameplay 
 but each level was the samething over and over again. It was a good game but it was one of those 
 games that once you get to that level that you cant beat you just stop for a while. Which is exactly 
 that happened to me. I probably would of kept playing but it was no different from the level before 
 that one. It was walk around fight the bad guys and get the hostages. And before I beat a level 
 I would have gone through each room about 8 times. Except for some levels there were a lot that 
 were confusing and hard to get around. Like you knew where something was you just did not know 
 how to get there. The game was good for the time I played it but now I just think back to the game 
 and it was not the game I expected at all but still good for DS. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: vee42
Rating: 4.9
Date: Jul 15, 2005 4:38 pm PT
Review:  This game, wow, this game as you can tell, already, I hate this game, graphically the style is like 
 viewtiful joe, except vj had flare, see the backrounds are full 3d which means that by looking at 
 them, that this game should've been made like the original, or like the psp version. The game plays 
 like it should've beaten with a stick because obviously nobody in their right mind would choose 
 this during boss fights it makes awkward use of the touch screen, and while yes I'm glad somethings 
 there, I also would like something useful there. The soundtrack for this game isn't bad, but it's 
 not good either. It's a blend of techno but with a rockish beat to it and while it's not bad the 
 speakers on the DS are great, and this puts them to shame. OK,40$, for this,2 words self explanatory. 
 And I only played it long enough to beat it. Which is saying alot since you won't, especially since 
 it gets you nothing useful. Don't buy this people, please for the childrens sake. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DSfanatic24
Rating: 7.1
Date: Apr 21, 2005 3:12 am PT
Review:  Most movie games these days have been anything but great and the ones that are great have really 
 come out of no where. Spiderman 2 however is not one of these few good movie games. Lets start 
 out with the levels. They are terrible. Its not that they look terrible or anything but it is just 
 way too confusing and there is way too few enemies. There might only be about 10 enemies on a level 
 and once you kill them they don't come back. And due to the fact you have to rescue hostages that 
 are all over the place you will find yourself only fighting enemies about 5% of the time. The clips 
 that are in between the levels are not taking advantage of any of the DS's graphical capabilities. 
 These could of been done on the GBA but that was only minor. The use of the touch-screen in Spiderman 
 2 is lacking. You use it just enough that you know it exists and it isn't very fun. The enemies 
 too are just terrible. There are a few types of enemies but just not enough variety to do much 
 for you. The character movments are not too bad and spidey does have a wide variety of moves. The 
 spidey sense feature they put in the game is really cool and it is sort of like slowing time down 
 in Viewtiful Joe. This game is really not worth your money unless you are in great need of a DS 
 game or are a huge spiderman fan. Otherwise I would advise anyone to go out and check another DS 
 game out 
::::::

::::::
UserName: latin_boi
Rating: 6.9
Date: Apr 4, 2005 1:45 pm PT
Review:  Well, let me just start off saying that this is the worst DS game I've played to date. This game 
 attempts to use the dual screens to select whichever special move, but when in the heat of battle, 
 it becomes frustrating to chose your power while getting the crap beat out of you. The graphics 
 could be much better because you play a semi-3D Spiderman in a 2D environment; this doesn't showcase 
 the DS's 16-bit graphics. The game levels, or what they call "chapters," are long and tedious. 
 At the beginning, you do nothing more than hunt down muggers and save victims and this just gets 
 plain boring after doing it for about three or four levels. By the time I actually made it to the 
 part where Dr. Octavius is showing off his machine thing, I had given up on the game. The music 
 is just like the graphics; it seems as though I could have bought the same version for GBA, plus 
 there is no voice acting (imagine how bad that could be) . Overall, this looks like a rushed attempt 
 to a game just to get something out for the DS's release, and to hoax longtime fans into buying 
 it. Let me tell you, this doesn't work on me. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TheKombatant2
Rating: 5.5
Date: Mar 29, 2005 3:53 am PT
Review:  When I got my DS, I was excited to get Spidey 2 for 2 reasons. One: I'm a nerd. Two: I loved the 
 console version. Unfortunately, this game fails in comparison to the console version. The graphics 
 are good, but I'd take substance over style any day. The horrible level design, way too tightly 
 timed objectives, and a stupid spidey sense- slow mo thing make this a game only the most die hard 
 of Spidey fans will enjoy. This game is not that difficult, except for the missions that you have 
 to do something in 2 minutes that would take a normal person at least 10. Don't pick this one up. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ZaleIsBackAgain
Rating: 6.4
Date: Mar 13, 2005 1:44 am PT
Review:  Peter Parker leads a fairly difficult life; his best friend Mary Jane is loosing trust in him; 
 he recently got fired in his pizza delivery job; hes on the verge of getting fired in his photographing 
 job for the Daily Bugle; hes overdue on rent, and this is all thanks to his alter ego Spiderman. 
 Spiderman, as some of you might now by now, is a vigilante that swings around Manhattan, beating 
 up criminals, and assisting those in need. Who would have known it would be so difficult and frustrating 
 performing the heroic actions Spiderman accomplishes in the Nintendo DS version of Spiderman 2? 
 From the looks of it, Peter Parker is the one leading the better life here.
  
  Simply watching the opening cutscene of Spiderman 2 makes you more anxious to play the game, because 
 youd be fooled to think the game would be 3D, just like its console cousins. Instead, the game 
 is in a side scrolling format. That doesnt mean its bad, its just disappointing. Spiderman 2 
 is a pretty decent game, though its definitely not worth the $50 (CAN) or $40 (USA) youve paid. 
 
  
  Spiderman 2 is simply raw potential that isnt developed enough yet, because it has the heart, 
 but with a few more months of work, it could have been those must have titles for the DS, which 
 is something Nintendos system is lacking right now. First off, the bad guys are pretty tough to 
 bring down. Usually, when you perform the kick and punch attacks, theyll fly off on the third 
 strike. Once they get up, theyll charge at you like a bull, and a good chunk of your health will 
 be deducted. You could always slow down time by activating your spidey senses; though the timer 
 that is timing your overall completion time will continue to go at normal pace. Secondary objectives 
 require you to complete the level in such a fast time, its almost ridiculous. Dont be surprised 
 if youre graded a level F or D. 
  
  Also, the lack of variety in enemies makes the game repetitive. There are only three types of distinguishable 
 enemies: Androids/Humans and flying robots. None of them require any special techniques, except 
 for the flying robots in rare occasions. Each level pretty much follows the same formula; rescue 
 hostages, kill baddies, reach destination and thats it. The only exceptions are boss bottles. 
 The boss battles are probably the best part of the game, though that isnt saying much. The secondary 
 objectives for the boss battles are even more ridiculous to accomplish than the normal levels. 
 Theyll demand you to beat the stage in a matter of a minute or two, while retaining 90% of your 
 health. At the end, youll be rewarded with un-useful moves and a lot more useful health and special 
 meter upgrades.
  
  Which leads to my next point; the special moves are nothing special. The entire bottom screen is 
 used as a menu to store your eight rather pathetic techniques. Only by touching the certain move 
 using the DSs touch screen feature will the technique be activated. Youll be sticking with three 
 or two moves throughout the course of the game, because there are only three or two moves that 
 are truly useful. The touch screen is also used for disposing bombs via leading a bomb from one 
 end to another, while avoiding electrical spots that will cause you to start over. Also, during 
 boss battles, things will be thrown at you, and the only way for you to avoid these objects is 
 by tapping them on the screen. Overall, the use of the touch screen feature is disappointing. The 
 bottom screen would have been better off as a map.
  
  The lack of a map is Spiderman 2s biggest fault. Youll be traveling around the different stages, 
 killing and destroying bad guys, and rescuing hostages. Finding every hostage or bad guy is sometimes 
 mandatory, and youll often have trouble locating that one hostage or villain. It gets very frustrating 
 when you spend half an hour searching for just one person because you have no idea where he or 
 she is. However, it gets quite rewarding when youve memorized the entire stage and complete it 
 thoroughly in half the time in the next attempt.
  
  Another problem Spiderman 2 has is poor level design. The last non boss level will frustrate you 
 so much, youll want to destroy your DS, but because you bought it for such a high price, youll 
 be forced to endure that anger. Littered throughout the level are hazards and bottomless pits. 
 The worst part of these pits is that if you fall in one, youll die. In reality this makes sense, 
 but in the video game world, it unbalances things. Spiderman 2 is hard enough as it is, and they 
 just made it almost impossible with these gaps. Whats even worse is that some of the hazards are 
 placed near the pits, and knocking into a hazard could knock you into one. This level will take 
 the average gamer an hour or two to complete, due to restarting countless times. 
  
  On top of all these problems, its short! Like its console cousins, Spiderman 2 shouldnt take 
 you longer than four hours to complete, including all your failed attempts on the second last level. 
 Those that have the patience to go through Spiderman 2 a second time should be able to beat the 
 entire game in 45 minutes. 
  
  One thing that Spiderman 2 does accomplish is that it does a good job of showcasing the power of 
 the Nintendo DS. There are only three cutscenes in the game, but theyre all beautifully rendered. 
 Youd never expect a piece of machine so small to have this much power. These cutscenes werent 
 ripped off from the movie too, because neither Mysterio nor Vulture ever premiered in the movie. 
 The still images that demonstrate the story are also well done. The dialogue is quite humorous 
 too thanks to Mr. Jameson, Peter Parkers boss, who constantly orders Peter to take pictures for 
 him for the Daily Bugle.
  
  The only trait that will interest gamers for long is, well its Spiderman! Web slinging is just 
 so much fun. When youve mastered web slinging, youll be quite rewarded with what youve accomplished. 
 Speed running through every level is also pretty fun to master, and I hate to admit, gets quite 
 addictive at times. Knowing where every hostage is, every villain and criminal in their exact locations 
 and just surprising them with a punch feels quite satisfying. The main treat here, like any other 
 adventure game, is speed running. When youve mastered web slinging, and your memorization skills 
 are perfected, the majority of Spiderman 2s problems are obsolete to you. 
  
  But even without those problems, Spiderman 2 is still just an average game. Though seeing as the 
 DS is lacking great games at the moment, you should consider picking up Spiderman 2 if Super Mario 
 64 DS isnt available, but dont buy it for full price, because youll feel like youve wasted 
 your money on a game offering so little. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: joshaskins
Rating: 8.6
Date: Mar 1, 2005 4:32 am PT
Review:  Following on from the Success of the console versions, Activision have developed a DS version of 
 the Spiderman 2 game to compliment the launch of Nintendos new portable system. Once again, Spiderman 
 has to defeat the likes of Dr Ock and Mysterio in a game that is based more on the previous console 
 versions than the film of the same name. The plot, although following loosely the events of the 
 film, is filled up with additional fights and scenes that help pad the game out, and it works well. 
 
  
  
  Graphics
  
  Spiderman 2 is a prime example of what a launch title should be  graphically at least. It really 
 shows the potential of the DS and what we can expect to come in the near future from the system. 
 The gameplay follows a 2D style pretty much like the GBA version of the game, however the graphics 
 are fully 3D and look beautiful as they sweep past at a crisp 60 frames per second. Spiderman and 
 the enemies are very well animated and it is clear that something this good could never have been 
 produced on a GBA  the 3D animation also adds to the style and grace of Spiderman as he moves 
 fluidly throughout the levels and fights with the enemies. The whole thing with Spiderman is his 
 ability to swing through cities, climb walls and effortlessly fight enemies and the smooth animation 
 allows him to achieve this. It moves fast and is responsive, so if you press a button Spiderman 
 will respond to that command instantly  you dont have to wait for him to finish his current action/animation. 
 
  
  Despite the 2D gameplay in the game, the backgrounds are rendered in beautiful 3D and have plenty 
 of depth to them, For example, while swinging through the city you can see right down some streets 
 to the sun shining in the background and it is sections of the game like this that really make 
 your jaw drop  yes, you are playing a portable console. Another great graphical addition is that 
 the fixed camera will rotate with Spiderman as you turn round corners or sections of building. 
 It looks beautiful. You can be swinging along the city one minute and suddenly the camera swings 
 round a building in full 3D to set you off in a new direction, and this really makes the game feel 
 more 3D roaming that it really is. It is also worth mentioning that between levels, the game has 
 included video sequences from the console versions of the game and although we have seen this in 
 some Gameboy Advance titles before, (e. g. Medal Of Honour) never has it been this clear and of 
 such high quality. My hat comes off to Activision for the graphics they have been able to produce 
 for a launch title, it really does look incredible. 
  
  
  
  Sound
  
  The sound in Spiderman 2 is also up to a pretty high standard, and it certain has some features 
 that really make use of the DS stereo speakers. The game contains voice acting from the actors 
 in the film and although there isnt much of it, it does make the whole Spiderman experience more 
 realistic and impressive. The enemies you encounter also make good grunting sounds as you proceed 
 to attack them and scream when you knock them flying off a high rise building  pretty realistic 
 really! The music itself feels very much at home with this game and it sounds nice on the DS speakers. 
 Where Activision have really impressed with the sound is the addition of 3D sounds within the game. 
 If you are in a Chapter which requires you to find a certain number of hostages, then you are helped 
 as to where to find them by the screams and shouts of the hostages over the stereo speakers. The 
 sound comes from the appropriate speaker and at just the right volume so as to give the effect 
 as to where the hostage is in the level. Its clever and it works, and once again it shows what 
 we can expect to see in future DS titles. 
  
  
  Gameplay
  
  As already mentioned, the DS version of Spiderman drops the free-roaming style of the console version 
 and returns to what is primarily a 2D-scroller, bulked out with impressive 3D graphics and effects. 
 However, graphics aside how does the Gameplay stand up? Well, the game takes place over 16 Chapters. 
 These chapters range in style from simple rescue the hostage levels, to kill all the enemies 
 and it doesnt vary much more from those. These styles can soon prove to be very frustrating though 
 as finding enemies or hostages within the levels can be extremely difficult. An example was when 
 I playing through a Rescue the hostages level within a burning building. The levels are huge, 
 and items spaced too far away and it doesnt take long before I was lost, having to spend ages 
 trying to find my 1 remaining hostage. There is no map and simply no way of knowing where you have 
 previously been short of knowing the entire level off by heart. This is a good thing that the gameplay 
 offers a challenge, but when you just cannot find that last item it quickly turns to frustrating. 
 There is also no way of looking around the level to see where you are, as the camera is always 
 at a fixed distance from Spiderman and this is a shame as it certainly detracts from the Gameplay. 
 
  
  Despite these niggles though, the game is fun to play and Spiderman moves like youd expect him 
 to to. The main game is broken down occasionally with boss battles, and these are one section of 
 the game where the DS touch screen comes into play. You find yourself battling the boss in the 
 normal 2D view at first, but soon the action flips to the lower screen and you are forced to deflect 
 objects that are thrown towards Spiderman by touching them. This is not exactly a revolutionary 
 method of using a touch screen, but it helps to pad out the gameplay and stop it from becoming 
 too repetitive  even if it is slightly annoying having to quickly pull the stylus out and turn 
 to the bottom screen within the middle of a boss fight! The only other way in which the touch screen 
 is used in Spiderman 2 is to select Spidermans fighting moves during the main gameplay. The moves 
 are arranged in a grid of 8 around the lower screen and touching them with your thumbs allows Spiderman 
 to slide, shoot web or wrap up his opponents. In this way, the touch screen is used well and allows 
 the DS to have a button for every move which is clever and effective. Many of Spidermans moves 
 have to be unlocked and so by the end of the game many more will be available to fight with. The 
 fighting in the main gameplay is fast and frantic and is certainly a lot of fun. However, I found 
 the collision detection with Spiderman and the enemies to be quite off putting and at many times 
 Spiderman just wouldnt hit enemies unless I was virtually on top of them, which was annoying. 
 Nethertheless, the gameplay is how youd expect a Spiderman title to play and it is a lot of fun, 
 providing you have the patience.
  
  Lifespan
  
  The game is made up of 16 chapters that in theory could be completed in around 20 minutes each. 
 However the style of gameplay and the large sized levels means it likely to take you a couple of 
 days to crack this title. Infact, those without the patience and perseverance may never see the 
 end of the game and thats a real shame. For those who do manage to complete the game, then the 
 game provides you with a second objective on each chapter, and these are extremely challenging 
  which is nice as it makes the game last longer, albeit not really that much different from the 
 first objectives. The game as a whole will keep you playing for a good while and it will certainly 
 be in your DS for a decent amount of time. 
  
  
  Summary
  
  Spiderman 2 is in many ways a superb launch title. The graphics, sounds and style are all beautiful 
 and Spiderman controls and looks superb. The 3D locations make you gasp at the DS power and it 
 is one of those launch titles that let you know just how revolutionary this new portable console 
 is. However the game isnt without its flaws and the gameplay is very patchy in places. The game 
 gets tedious and people with no patience will soon become extremely frustrated with the collect 
 all or kill all styles of gameplay. Its also a shame that the DS main features were not used 
 effectively. The touch screen, despite the good fighting controls, feels unused and at times (like 
 the boss battles) it feels like it has been used purely just for the sake of it. The lower screen 
 also feels useless  no map, no extras  its only really used to offer the fighting controls and 
 youll spend hardly any time looking at it. This is a let down really, but considering it is a 
 launch title and that Activision have not had time to look into the DS real potential, we can 
 let them off. 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: memasterofvg
Rating: 7.6
Date: Feb 5, 2005 10:20 pm PT
Review:  I won't beat around the bush: I think Greg has absolutely no idea what he is talking about. Yes, 
 this game is somewhat frustrating, but never to the extent of wanting to break your game. Yes, it 
 is somewhat repetitive, but the astonishing graphics make up for it. And, no, the graphics deserved 
 a 10, not an 8.
  
  Having said that, this is coming from a tough critic, who gave Grand Theft Auto: San Andreas an 
 8.6.
  
  I was pleasantly surprised with this game. From first look, it seemed like a game to cash in on 
 a franchise. But then I saw the graphics. A sweet, blazing framerate making everything so fluid. 
 3D graphics in a 2D game, similar to Viewtiful Joe. Excellent detail, incredible character models. 
 This is nothing short of flawless.
  
  Sound is not too bad, considering its coming from the DS. No cutscenes that have voice, though 
 some "HELP" voice samples are scattered here and there. Music is good, though it's not something 
 you hum the next day. Some health sounds retrieved from previous games.
  
  Though I disagree with Greg on most points, I must admit that you hardly use the touch screen at 
 all. You probably won't even use the combos given on the touch screen, and decide just to beat 
 the living crud out of your opponent. Besides that, this game is excellent gameplay wise. Fighting, 
 like I said, isn't too eventful, but can be really fun at times. The core attribute that REALLY 
 works is webswinging and webzipping. With swinging, you swoosh at the speed of life, pressing the 
 B button twice, and is extremely fun. Web zipping you zip to a direction you chose to at the speed 
 of light. Both techniques are VERY useful, and very fun to use. 
  
  The game is divided into 16 chapters, but don't worry: this is a relatively large game. Each level 
 is HUGE, beyond what you would think the DS is capable of. On average, you'll take anywhere between 
 4-10 tries to beat a level, depending on the difficulty. Each level averages around 10-20 minutes 
 to complete the main goal, and much longer to finish the secondary missions, taking up about 15 
 lives whenever you try one.
  
  The game itself is extremely hard, from level 1 all the way through level 16. It is pretty nice 
 with health on the first two levels, but it becomes difficult as you go on. Every timed mission 
 takes at least 5-6 tries as the minimum. The first timed mission was Chapter 3, and because you 
 are inexperienced by that time, it could take you about 1.5 - 2 hours to beat it. It is easily 
 the most difficult Spiderman game as well.
  
  Well, you decide for yourself. I give this game my thumbs up! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MrCHUP0N
Rating: 5.5
Date: Oct 16, 2007 3:21 pm PT
Review:  With the Nintendo DS launch looking relatively stark, Spiderman 2 DS starts out seeming like a 
 diamond in the rough. But underneath the relatively smooth presentation and variety of combat options 
 lies squandered potential. Frustrating level design and unbalanced goals make this game hard to 
 enjoy, and the good moments are few and far between.
  
  The play control is up there in terms of quality. Spidey runs at a brisk pace, and has a variety 
 of 3-hit combos depending on the sequence of punches and kicks you execute in succession. His web-swing 
 and web zip-line become second nature very quickly, and actually just exploring the city is a breeze 
 and pretty enjoyable. Tapping the touch screen to equip unlockable special attacks offers no difficulties. 
 Spidey Sense appears automatically, and a quick push of the L button will allow Spiderman to utilize 
 this and slow down the environment around him.
  
  Great play control, however, isn't worth much when the framework you apply it to is as loopy and 
 frustrating as it is in Spiderman 2 for the DS: the level design, the combat, and the objectives 
 have basically put these great mechanics to waste.
  
  The combat is actually not terrible, but it could be done better. Enemies seem to have a slightly 
 unfair priority over your moves. You have to be ultra quick to land the first blow on an unsuspecting 
 enemy, and even then your attack range looks to be a bit shorter than the visual representation 
 would imply. Spidey sense comes in handy here, so long as you remember just how short your range 
 is. I've caught myself activating Spidey Sense, walking a few steps, and swinging at nothing but 
 air. You really need to get right into the enemy's grill. The saving grace is the variety of moves 
 and combos you can pull off, thanks to the Buffet of Moves' Vicarious Visions has put onto the 
 touch screen. The only problem is that you might not be patient enough with the level design to 
 ever experience these moves.
  
  The level design and the goals go hand in hand to make this title mind-numbing and baffling. To 
 start, the levels are designed with the new 3D engine in mind. This means you're actually able 
 to turn corners instead of continuing horizontally on a flat X-axis. This is usually fine for action 
 games that go from A to B on a linear path. But there's a fair amount of interconnection between 
 rooms in several of the indoor stages, thus giving the game a scavenger hunt feel. Because it's 
 in faux 3D -- not actually allowing you to control your perspective on the surroundings -- it becomes 
 frustrating to navigate between rooms and remember which way leads to what, since you're only able 
 to travel in two perceivable directions.
  
  The outdoor stages in the city don't fare much better. Although they don't have this room problem, 
 there are so many vertical planes of horizontal platforms that hide your goals, which are typically 
 Find this many hostages, and kill this many baddies, within this amount of time . In order to unlock 
 special moves, your goals are made more challenging: Do all of that while maintaining this percentage 
 of your health bar, and do it all in this too-short-amount-of-time. It'll take perfect memorization 
 of hostage, enemy, and obstacle placement to actually achieve your advanced goals and unlock special 
 moves or health / web meter upgrades, and precision combat skills. Searching every single room, 
 floor, ledge, or whatever, to find hostages and enemies placed in such loopy and tedious arrangements, 
 in such an unforgiving amount of time doesn't make the game challenging -- it makes it annoying. 
 The incentive to replay levels to unlock everything wore off on me, not too quickly but more so 
 than I would have liked.
  
  Not content to simply use the Touch Screen for the Buffet of Moves , Vicarious Visions thought 
 it innovative to include little mini-games within boss battles and stages. Sometimes you'll use 
 the touch screen to deactivate electric panels and bombs simply by using your stylus, dragging 
 a fixture across a set path, while avoiding hazards such as electric shocks. During boss fights, 
 you'll often be shooting debris or other projectiles out of the air, light-gun style. While the 
 in-stage mini-games are neither good nor bad, the boss mini-games break up what is otherwise an 
 intense battle. At first you might think that you could use that breather, but the fact that those 
 mini-games are such an uninspired design begs the question, Why bother? 
  
  Despite its warts, there are some good things about Spiderman 2 DS. Throwaway minigames aside, 
 the boss battles are otherwise intense and truly challenging -- not due to bad design. It's all 
 pattern based like old school brawlers, but they get the job done, and it takes some nice skill 
 to pull off a win. The opportunity to use your Buffet to its fullest is much appreciated, and victory 
 really does feel like an accomplishment to be proud of.
  
  The aesthetics aren't bad at all, either. In fact, the graphics are quite nice to look at. Moving 
 at a consistent 60 frames a second, the city zips by you at a smooth and detailed pace. Spidey 
 animates particularly well, even if the enemies don't, and if it weren't for the repetitive level 
 design, this would be the best-looking DS game at launch. The sound isn't half bad either; the 
 music is repetitive and pretty much not memorable, but voice samples are used liberally throughout 
 the gameplay. Making use of the DS's two speakers, all effects are heard in wonderfully dizzying 
 stereo sound.
  
  Even with this and the slim pickings of the DS launch in mind, there's no real need to add this 
 game to your library. Spiderman 2 for the DS has some merit to it, that being technological showmanship, 
 tight controls and some entertaining boss battles. But in the end, that's not enough, and a rental 
 is simply the best recommendation for this launch title. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Reptile711
Rating: 5.9
Date: Jan 29, 2005 4:14 am PT
Review:  This is one of the worst games for DS. I was actually going to get this game. But instead I tried 
 out a friend's game and at first I was amazed. The graphics were amazing, the fluid framerate was 
 impressive and the sound was nice as well. The game display isn't all that cheesy. But the Gameplay 
 kills the whole game.
  
  The fundamental gameplay of this game is confusing. There is no point in touching the screen nor 
 should there be any reason to. When you play, you can't tell which is forward or backward and it 
 takes quite a while to get used to. It's unbelievably confusing on how the gameplay changes to 
 fit the graphic's needs.
  
  Last, the game itself is difficult. I mean horribly difficult. The first mission it wants you to 
 do is get pizza and save 11 people from a burning apartment in a total of only 4 minutes. How the 
 hell do you do that when the apartment is a complete maze? The game is impossible to get a grade 
 A on any level for the first time maybe even the second or third time you played the same level.
 
  
  This game is unbelievably flawless in graphics but horribly achieved gameplay. It's not worth 40 
 dollars. I don't like it and not many people like it as well. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mariokart64fan
Rating: 8
Date: Jan 22, 2005 4:48 pm PT
Review:  game play it does not use unique ds feature although its the first spider man game i played and 
 it was fun i dont care even if it did use ds features its still a game for those who liked the 
 series would go no wrong here fun fighting sequences but its to hard 
  
  graphics the only problem in the game is these graphics its of a gba game with 3d instead of 2d 
 modeling side scrolling they should have used its 64 bit capabilities its ok launch title dont 
 get me wrong i like it and all .
  
  sound this is not applicable for this game bc all you hear is voicing and effects nice ones to 
 so automatic 10 here because it dont need sound and its got some music on game here but not exciting 
 
  
  value theres alot of missions to complete so itl be a long time before you get bored of the game 
 no multiplayer which is ok to me 
  
  tilt and bottom line try it out you have nothing to lose after all theres only a few games out 
 at this point in time so give it a go 
::::::

::::::
UserName: speed-sword
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 18, 2005 5:23 am PT
Review:  This game easly shows off the DS power and has the best graphics on the system. The touch screen 
 is highly usefull for attacks to disarming bombs. and you can also use it in boss fights to. but 
 this is the hardest game i have ever played. this game follows the movie very well. and is better 
 than the home console verisons.
  
  Graphics: are the best on the system and shows off the power of the system
  
  Gameplay: is 
 a little hard to use but you can get used to it easly.
  
  Sound: no much to say here it is old and tired 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ahmyspleen
Rating: 7.4
Date: Jan 4, 2005 6:05 pm PT
Review:  Spiderman is the most amazing hero ever! His games are usually always fun... and thats what this 
 game is. Fun, but not much else. Let's first talk about the graphics. The game is in 2D, but the 
 characters are actually 3D models, which looks amazing. There are even some video clips which really 
 look good. The sound isn't great, but you learn to live with it. Gameplay is a mixed batch. It is 
 really fun and super easy to swing and climb on walls, but the fighting consists of just punch 
 and kick action. Basically, the enemies are going to kick your butt until you realize that your 
 suppose to move and jump around. The addition of a Matrix-; ole "Spider-sense" and some cool special 
 moves still aren't enough to save the somewhat boring fighting. Boss battles are fun though. Most 
 levels consist of Spidey swinging around, punching some guys, and saving some hostages. Why do 
 muggers ALWAYS take hostages anyway? The world may never know. But, the game does throw in some 
 fun minigames to change things up, and most are fun, but short. I think the special powers are 
 cool, but much to hard to unlock. In closing, this game is pretty ok for a launch title, and I 
 really did enjoy what I played so far. I think you should at least try it out, but you might be 
 disappointed. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ken-e
Rating: 3.6
Date: Jan 4, 2005 7:58 am PT
Review:  As one of the few launch titles for the Nintendo DS, Spider-Man 2 offers a sip of what the DS can 
 do. The graphics, audio, and controls are good but unfortunately like many other movie-based titles, 
 Spider-Man 2 for the DS is a bare bones frustrating repetitive game. 
  
  Presentation
  
  The overall graphics and presentation of the game is good. The front end (FE) menus are consistent 
 with the rest of the game and the menus are easy to navigate, though there are only four different 
 FE screens. The non-interactive sequences at the start of each chapter were done well. The characters 
 look pretty close to their movie counterpart and there doesnt to be any jerkiness during playback. 
 
  
  In-game graphics were also done well. Despite the fact that the game is a side-scroller, there 
 is a sense of depth with the varying foreground objects. Spider-Man 2 takes a page from Viewtiful 
 Joes feel where by the background would seem to bend as Spider-Man is going around a corner. Its 
 a nice effect on an otherwise flat map.
  
  The character models are nicely detailed and shadowed so that they blend well within each area 
 of the environment. Character animations for the most part are smooth and feel right. For example, 
 when Spider-man is swinging around on his web, he moves at the right speed, not too fast, not too 
 slow. A criticism about the animation is that there is little variety in the movements. For example, 
 there seems to be only one animation set for getting hit, one for dying, and one for attacking. 
 Its not a big deal but it looks strange when you hit a guy from the back and he reacts the same 
 as if you hit him from the front. It also looks strange when you are attacking two people with 
 the same character type (ex. guy with pipe) at the same time because they both would move in unison. 
 Another criticism about the animation is that Spider-Man looks like he has spaghetti arms when 
 he runs. His arms acts like a long tube when it is swung back and forth. In other words, you dont 
 see the clear definition of the bend in his elbow.
  
  A. I.
  
  The A. I. in Spider-Man 2 is not too great. An example is in earlier chapters with human enemies 
 where they would be totally oblivious when Spider-Man is saving a hostage that is right behind 
 them. To make things confusing, in the same chapters, the enemies would be able to track where 
 Spider-Man is even when he is underneath a platform. Another questionable A. I. logic is how aggressive 
 and fast some human enemies are. I know its probably to increase the difficulty but too often 
 would the enemy be able to hit Spider-Man quicker with the butt end of a gun or pipe when Spider-Man 
 is trying to kick them first or just trying to get up after a hit. A situation where this is particularly 
 frustrating is when an enemy is on a ledge. With their speed and ability to track Spider-Man, it 
 is quite difficult to get to them on the ledge. Often then not, its just better to move on.
  
  The robots in the game are not much smarter. A prime example is when Spider-Man is crawling 
 on the ceiling and a four legged robot is below. In this situation, the robot will jump up to hit 
 Spider-Man but when it falls back down, it explodes. For the flying spinner robot, it seems to 
 move slower than what one would expect but they would spin fast after hitting Spider-Man. I would 
 have imagined that it would begin spinning faster once it sees Spider-Man and then move quicker 
 towards him.
  
  The A. I. for the enemy bosses is quite standard; figure out their pattern and attack at the right 
 moment. Without revealing too much of the game, there are a couple of bosses that I dont know 
 why they are in the game seeing that they arent in the actual Spider-Man 2 movie.
  
  Level Design
  
  One of the main reasons why I didnt enjoy the game as much as I would have 
 liked is because of the level design. Its not to say that all the Chapters are amiss but the majority 
 are. If they are not confusing, they are repetitive. Over a third of the Chapters were using the 
 same Manhattan map and the bulk of them had the same objectives. 
  
  In Spider-Man 2, it feels like things were added in spots only because they know people will land 
 or swing there. This resulted in increased difficulty but it caused the user to be quite frustrated. 
 For example, in Chapter 2 there is a place on the map in an alley type area where there isnt too 
 much room between buildings. At the ground level of the alley, you can find a Special Meter Powerup. 
 Its easy enough to down to it and get the power up but when you try to get out with six obstacles 
 (ex. electric signs, gas ducts) and an enemy with a machine gun in the way, you can expect to lose 
 at least half your life. This wouldnt be so bad if it was later on in the game, but this only 
 Chapter 2! Some other examples of the frustrating placements are helicopters in the air for no 
 reason but to let Spider-Man hit them, gas ducts and fire on the ground, an unusual amount of broken 
 electric signs, and useless crates. 
  
  The Boss levels have some good ideas with the Touch Screen but they have some design issues as 
 well. I will try not give away too much but the thing I disliked most about one of these levels 
 is that rocks that have already fallen can still hurt Spider-Man when he touches. It makes no sense. 
 Another thing I didnt like was that messages would appear in the middle of fighting the bosses, 
 often at a key moment when the boss is vulnerable. 
  
  As mentioned in the previous section, the enemies are too quick making them unrealistic. A possible 
 solution to this is to have Spider-Man fight more than one or two people at a time. This way the 
 enemies can be slowed down but the user will still experience the urgency to kill them quickly. 
 As for hardware requirements, this should not strain the DS too much since multiple moving characters 
 are seen in Mario 64 DS. 
  
  There are some mini games and puzzles using the Touch Screen during regular gameplay but the games 
 are not very challenging and the touch response is poor. In one mini-game the objective is to move 
 an object from one spot to another by dragging the stylus on the screen while avoiding obstacles. 
 When I do this, the object is about half an inch behind so what might take five seconds will actually 
 take double the time to complete.
  
  Controls
  
  Spider-Man reacts well in most instances and the button and Touch Screen layout is well done. I 
 liked how Spider-Man can go almost any where by web slinging or crawling around in small spaces. 
 The physics are not totally realistic, like being able to swing in the opposite direction instantly, 
 but it is a good trade-off for better playability. 
  
  My primary complaint about the control system is with the Spider-sense. From my understanding, 
 the Spider-sense goes off when danger is imminent and the user can press the L Button to initiate 
 the Viewtiful Joe-like slow down. When fighting non-boss characters, the Spider-sense goes off 
 too late so when the slow down is triggered there isnt any time to avoid the attack. Strangely 
 enough, when this is attempted with a boss character, the attack is nullified. 
  
  Another complaint I have with the controls is when Spider-Man is crouched. In this position, attacks 
 are slightly slower than when he is upright, which is fine, but this also causes Spider-man to 
 be unable to get up quickly. As you can imagine, this would be very inconvenient when an attacker 
 is rushing at you.
  
  A minor issue that I found was that Spider-Man will sometimes go through platforms. This can be 
 recreated by swinging in the air and then pressing the X Button for a web-zip to a higher platform. 
 Another issue with the web-zip is that sometimes it appears that the web will catch on an object 
 beyond a closer object. When this happens, Spider-Man will zip to the closer object and then freeze 
 in the zip animation for a couple seconds when he hits it. 
  
  Audio
  
  The music in Spider-Man 2 is good as the fast beat music fits well with the game. I noticed that 
 one track was repeated on two Chapters but thats not a big deal. The sound effects are okay but 
 very repetitive as there are a few snippets for each event. As well, some sounds do not fit well 
 with certain actions (ex. when Spider-Man is crawling on the walls there is a crunching type sound) 
 and some are triggered twice (ex. dying sfx when hitting attackers multiple times while in the 
 air) . 
  
  Extras
  
  
  As mentioned at the start of the review, Spider-Man 2 is a bare bones game. There are power ups 
 and unlockables to find but thats it. There arent any multiplayer features, hidden characters, 
 or even an options menu. The special unlockables are quite challenging as most required Chapters 
 to be completed within a certain amount of time. The hidden upgrades are a bit easier to get but 
 they are hidden well.
  
  Misc issues.
  
  One of the nice features on the Nintendo DS is the sleep mode. It saves battery power on the DS 
 while allowing users to continue the game where they left off. I'm not 100% certain but sleep mode 
 in Spider-Man 2 doesn't seem to be fully functioning. Closing the DS at any point of the game will 
 cause the screens to shut off but the power light doesn't slowly blink as it is suppose to according 
 to the DS manual. Instead, it is a solid green light.
  
  When the user has found a special meter upgrade previously to starting a Chapter, the Special Meter 
 at the top left of the screen is not full at the start. It's not a major issue but it reflects 
 on the fit and finish of the game.
  
  Finally, sometimes when pressing kick or punch button to view the panels, the user is not brought 
 to the mini-puzzle. To view the panel, the user must move Spider-Man away and then comeback to 
 the highlighted area. This can be quite frustrating when time is important.
  
  Conclusion
  
  Spider-Man 2 is an average game with some good ideas. The game captures the essence 
 of Spider-man well but the game is too small and there are quite a few design issues that as a 
 user made me very frustrated. Some things that I would have liked to see improved and/or available 
 are the Spider-sense and how it is initialized, stand alone mini-games, and a multiplayer mode. 
 There are probably several other things Treyarch would like to have improved on but as it happens 
 often in the game industry, there are hard deadlines to make.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: stormmaster
Rating: 8.8
Date: Dec 29, 2004 7:04 pm PT
Review:  Spider-Man for DS is like the GBA ones expept, 3-D. Some of the missions are frusturating but, 
 just keep playing, spider sense is awsome, the powers are awsome, the graphics are awsome, this 
 game is awsome!!
  
  Graphics:9/10
  its not the source engine but its awsome!!
  
  Gamplay 10/10
  Awsome side scrolling action, enemies somtimes can kill you easily if your not 
 carful.
  
  sound: 6/10
  The sound is mediocore, but the scream of your foes as they fall off building is rewarding.
  
 
  value: 9/10
  sure its not a must have like mario, but its worth the price you pay.
  
  Tilt: 9/10
  this game has almost no bugs!!
  
  Overview 8.8
  This awsome sidescroller is 
 recemonded for anyone who has a DS!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: RaphaelKorland
Rating: 5.3
Date: Nov 24, 2004 11:02 pm PT
Review:  First off, this game is incredibly repetitive. The level designs are basically redone over and 
 over with new textures, great. Along with the level design being very repetitive and boring, the 
 missions are too. It's the same thing every time. Saving hostages (only two different hostages, 
 one male hostage and one female hostage) , and killing a few bad guys. Which by the way are way 
 to hard. The level three grunts take about 6-8 hits to defeat and they get stronger as you proceed 
 in the game. Hand-to-hand combat is quite difficult in this game, the AI will automatically take 
 a swing at you when you get in a certain range, making dodging the only option, you can't block 
 or anything. The boss fights are pretty boring and basic, what can I say? 
  
  The only thing close to innovation with the touch screen *SPOILER* is the first fight with Doctor 
 Octopus where you have to disable the electrical panels before they explode by using your stylus/finger 
 to navigate a button-ish thing (no idea what this thing is even called) from point A to B without 
 it touching the electrical blockages. With all this lack of level design and innovation, you would 
 have thought they would have had space to make the graphics a little better? Nope, the graphics 
 don't do much for me, and I'm sure they don't do much for anyone else. 
  
  Along with that, the game is really short. I've played for roughly 2-3 hours and I'm already close 
 to half way done. Not to mention they kept the old GBA sidescroller feel to it, which I dont mind 
 for Spiderman games but they should at least give it a try on a handheld. The music is blah, it's 
 not like you'll be whistling the tunes or anything. NPC's have very annoying voices, infact there 
 are virtually no voices from the NPC's. Besides all that bad stuff, there are a few good points 
 to the game. One, there are little movie clips which have very detailed graphics. I didn't mind 
 that at all. Another good thing about the game is all the special combo moves you can attack with. 
 Things like slide-kicks, chucking baddies with your webslinging abilities, using the impact web, 
 super punch ect. Other than that, there isn't too much good to say about this game, sadly
  
  Cons: Repetitive level design, lack of innovation with the touch screen, bad graphics, side 
 scroller, music is blah, annoying voice overs.
  
  Pros: Cool movie clips, cool combos.
  
  Conclusion: Maybe worth a rental, but otherwise... stay away from this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: JohnnySmith9
Rating: 6
Date: Nov 22, 2004 7:49 am PT
Review:  The game looks awsome and plays super smooth, but I got so tired of doing the same thing over and 
 over in the beginning. I got impatient on the upgrades for special moves also. This game would 
 have been wonderful if there were a little more strategy involved and quicker upgrades for special 
 moves.
  
  I didn't really like the music selection for the game. I was hoping for some of the motion picture 
 music to be included. This game should have costed way less because it seems as if it was made 
 for a minor. Spiderman 2 for the DS was an overall dissapointment. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
