-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Spider-Man: Battle for New York
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/ds/action/spidermanbattlefornewyork/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 Spidey and Goblin have a healthy variety of abilities.
 levels put those abilities to use in interesting ways.
 3D visuals and atmospheric audio are pleasing to the senses.
 comic scenes pop thanks to animated details and plentiful voice acting.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 Beating on cookie-cutter thugs gets old within minutes.
 whole game takes only a few hours to finish.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Dec 20, 2006
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 7
Critic Score: 6.7, 14 Review (s)
User Score: 7.4, 75 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Activision
Developer: Torus Games
Genre: 2D Platformer
Date: Nov 14, 2006
ESRB: Everyone 10+

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Variety and slick presentation go a long way toward making you forget about the lack of originality 
 and the quest's brief length. 

  Spider-Man: Battle for New York is a beat-'em-up where you control Spider-Man for roughly half 
 of the game's approximately 20 levels and control his nemesis, the Green Goblin, for the other 
 half. Generally speaking, you'll go through a level as the Goblin, which typically involves trashing 
 some area of the city; then, for the next level, you'll go through the same area as Spidey and 
 have to fix whatever calamities the green monster caused, rescuing any civilians in distress. Along 
 the way, you'll also have to deliver beatdowns to the various gang members and S. H. I. E. L. D. agents 
 that get in your way, as well as a number of powerful villains taken from Marvel's  The Ultimates 
  universe. The actual nuts and bolts of gameplay are mostly typical for the brawler genre. But 
 there's just enough variety here, combined with the slick 3D graphics and comic panel cutaways, 
 to suggest that most Spidey fans will come away satisfied after having devoted an afternoon or 
 evening to playing through the game.  

          You play half the game as Spidey and the other half as Green Goblin.     

  A good portion 
 of each level involves the usual beat-'em-up flavor. Spider-Man and Green Goblin can jump and climb 
 over hazards, punch and kick the enemies they encounter, and use their powers to shoot webbing 
 or fireballs at any enemies that are especially tough. Each character also has four different super 
 attacks that can be unleashed to take out one or more enemies in a single blow. Boss fights that 
 occur at the end of each level provide a change of pace from beating up weak enemies, particularly 
 when Spidey and Goblin cross paths. Nevertheless, despite the fact that it's sweet to be able to 
 control Spider-Man and Green Goblin, beating up on cookie-cutter enemies becomes boring pretty 
 much within the first five minutes. They all have the same limited attack patterns, which means 
 you'll resort to taking them out the same way every time.  

  Thankfully, most levels are designed so that you'll have to put the two characters' unique abilities 
 to use doing something other than bashing armed thugs. As Spider-Man, you can webswing, scale buildings, 
 and use your webbing to repair objects in the environment. Thus, you'll frequently find yourself 
 swinging over hazards, lifting cars off of people, and carrying people to safety. As the Green 
 Goblin, you have super strength, can conjure fireballs, and can also climb buildings. His levels 
 typically involve smashing and setting fire to key areas in the environment, as well as climbing 
 out of maximum-security prisons. Also, while you're going about your business as Spidey or Goblin, 
 a brief minigame will occasionally appear on the touch screen. They're just simple tasks that require 
 you to use the stylus or your finger to lift up cars, draw giant webs, or disarm certain enemies. 
 The nice thing about these minigames is that they add more variety to the game without distracting 
 you too much from the normal button-based controls.  

  It also helps that the presentation is slick and serves up numerous "whoa" moments. The levels 
 are side-scrolling, but instead of being rendered as 2D sprites and backdrops, all of the characters 
 and environments are rendered in 3D. Spider-Man, Goblin, and the other characters have a healthy 
 repertoire of moves and are gracefully animated, and thanks to a modest implementation of cel-shading, 
 they look like they were ripped right out of an  Ultimates  comic book. Meanwhile, the environments 
 are full of depth and show that the DS can produce 3D graphics that aren't rough and jagged. Everything 
 here is crisp and full of detail. The gameworld also absolutely jumps out of the screen, thanks 
 to liberal use of rotation and scaling effects. Audio consists of the usual sort of mood music 
 and superhero sound effects, but there's also a good smattering of voice comments and environmental 
 atmosphere. The quality of these digitized samples is superb. For example, a fire sounds like a 
 raging inferno coming out of the system's speakers. Comic fans are also likely to be impressed 
 by the cutaways that appear between levels. These scenes are put together with hand-drawn comic 
 book panels that feature nicely animated details and slick transitions between the two screens. 
 These also include line after line of recorded dialogue that was read by people who were clearly 
 making an effort to turn in believable, natural performances. It's as if the pages of an Ultimate 
 Spider-Man comic book have come to life on the Nintendo DS.  

          Among the various boss encounters, Spider-Man and Green Goblin face off on occasion.   
   

  The game's biggest shortcoming is that the end comes too soon. You'll probably need to make two 
 or three attempts to complete some levels, but even with that extra effort taken into account, 
 most people will finish the game in about four hours. There aren't any substantial bonuses to speak 
 of in the game. There also isn't any sort of multiplayer or co-op mode, which is a shame when you 
 consider that beat-'em-ups are much more fun to replay when a friend is able to join you.  

  Chances are that if you even remotely like the Spider-Man character, you'll find a great deal 
 to smile about during the brief span that it takes to finish the game. While Spider-Man: Battle 
 for New York for the Nintendo DS isn't particularly original or lengthy, it does deliver enough 
 variety and panache to make the experience worthwhile.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (4 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: louielouiee
Rating: 8
Date: Jan 10, 2009 8:28 pm PT
Review:  Not that I was expcting something like the Ps2's Smpider-man games, and I even liked a lot when 
 I heard that it was a beat 'em up game, but I don't know... I felt 'till the end of the game that 
 something was missing.
  The graphics are cool. Could've been better, a lot better, but it's not bad. All colorfull, and 
 the 3D scrolling is way cool - a very common thing in this 2D-like side scrolling DS's games - 
 but sometimes it seems that they weren't carefull enough. Well, we're talking about Spider-man, 
 just this name is enough to make a game sell, but they should be more carefull.
  The sounds are great. The soundtrack isn't the best ever, but it fits ins the game. The sound effects 
 are great, all the punches, kicks, fireballs, web shots, the voices of the people asking for help, 
 and thanking the Pidey fellow are great.
  The cutscenes are amazing! If you are a reader of Spider-man's comics these scenes are just so 
 nostalgic, and the voices of the characters during it fits just great. I felt like reading a comic 
 with all that voices in my head, you know? The problem is... the game's just as long as a single 
 comic.
  I don't know how long I took o finish, but I doubt I played for more than 6 hours. But hey, it 
 could be a Spidey's casual game maybe? Nah... I thing it was just short.
  In Battle for New York you play either with Spider-man and with Green Goblin, what's great! They 
 have a nice variety of moves, and interact in a cool way with the stage, but you can't choose between 
 them, you just play with one or another depending on the stage. That's not that bad, but in the 
 end *SPOILER* the fact that you can't choose between them makes you wonder what would happen if 
 Green Goblin had win the battle, or else why would they call it Battle For New York, let you play 
 with the villan, if the villan can't win in the end?
  
  But the game is great, if you like Spider-man, like playing with the villan sometimes, like beat 
 'em up games and like short games, this on is for you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GeekyDad
Rating: 7.5
Date: Aug 5, 2008 9:53 am PT
Review:  Here's another one of those lost games. I remember when it came out I paid pretty much no attention 
 to it. But with the summer drought I was ready to find something to play on my DS that wasn't a 
 brain-building game (let my noggin' turn to mush for all I care) , and I'm glad I checked out Battle 
 for New York. If you've played Ultimate Spider-man, this is pretty much more of the same, but that's 
 not a bad thing in this case.
  
  If you haven't played any of the other DS Spidey games, Battle for New York is a side-scrolling 
 brawler. You switch between playing as the Green Goblin and Spider-man and either beat-up a lot 
 of dudes, save some folks or swing about the city. The levels are fairly short but paced really 
 well.
  
  As the Goblin you'll generally beat-up everyone in sight and destroy many environmental objects. 
 You've got special powers that can be charged up by merely attacking enemies, as well as a fireball 
 ability that uses energy similar to a mana system. As Spider-man you're spending more time saving 
 victims but also beating up baddies and disarming alarms and such. The gameplay mechanics are really 
 fun and tightly executed for both characters. 
  
  One of the main drawbacks with gameplay, however, has to do with the game's timed events; in most 
 cases you'll initially fail and have to redo a level several times before you learn the layout 
 of victims or alarms and all that. The time allocated is short and there's often too much to do 
 within the given time frame. Also, the boss battles can be frustrating. They're not hard in the 
 sense of knowing what to do to defeat a given boss  they're just hard. Your opponent can withstand 
 a ton of damage while you cannot.
  
  But the game's real enjoyment comes from the feeling you get of being a super hero. There have 
 been countless games based on comic-book characters, but the physics, graphics and mechanics in 
 Battle for New York really put you in Spidey's shoes. The game's production, too, is really polished 
 and offers an entertaining comic-book tale. The graphics in Battle for New York are some of the 
 best 3D visuals I've seen on DS. Buildings appear far off in the background, lots of great lighting 
 and the character models are detailed with a wonderful cel-shaded style. Everything works great 
 for a system as limited as the DS is, and the frame rate is lightning fast. The audio presentation 
 is also very impressive, with lots of voice-over work, sirens wooing away in the distance, enemy 
 and pedestrian feedback  lots of great stuff.
  
  Overall, Battle for New York is a great little package, even at the full retail price. Of course, 
 you can now get it quite cheap, and if you're in for a modern beat`em-up and dig Spider-man, this 
 game is a great way to beat the summer heat. It's fairly short, but it's one of those you can play 
 through multiple times and enjoy. If you played Ultimate Spider-man and didn't care for it, you 
 probably won't care for this game. But if you did have fun before, chances are you'll get your 
 money's worth out of this romp.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: DS-man
Rating: 7
Date: Jan 22, 2008 2:31 pm PT
Review:  The newly look of the comic book style comes back from what they did with Ultimate Spiderman the 
 Graphics are full 3D and colourfull and looks great the only fault is that, I know its a DS, but 
 the graphics could looks more smoother.
  
  The gameplay plays like a beat em up side scroller.... well i guess it is realy. but what it lacks 
 is what i found intresting in Spider-Man 3 for the DS and thats the awesome combat and abillties 
 that you could pull of with the touch screen.
  
  You can play as either Green goblin or spiderman, they both have different abilities like the Goblin 
 can through fireballs and spiderman can well... erm throw web balls lol of course its not spiderman 
 if you cant web sling and crawl on the walls
  
  the cut scenes are all done in a colourfull comic book style that looks great and its fully voice 
 acting, but its not during the acculy gameplay.
  
  OVERALL:
  Overall Battle for NY may not be the best Spider-man but its still a good game to play. check it 
 out. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Slimjiminat0r
Rating: 6
Date: Jan 12, 2007 9:03 am PT
Review:  I dont know what it is, but Ive always thought that the Green Goblin was sort of a boring bad 
 guy. I mean, hes kinda like Batman, but evil, in that his thing is that he has all this technology 
 to throw at Spider-Man, like pumpkin bombs and his jet-glider thingy. Even in Marvels Ultimate 
 universe, a line of comics that modernizes and retells the stories of many of our most beloved 
 Marvel heroes, the Goblin really just seems to be a less threatening version of the Hulk he smashes 
 things, isnt smart, and throws fireballs, but hes not really all that neat to tell a story about. 
 So, naturally, the choice for the next handheld Spider-Man game was Lets make a game with where 
 you get to play as the Green Goblin! Yay.
  
  To say the least, I was displeased to hear the news. Last year I got to fool around as Venom on 
 my DS and make use of some really spiffy touch-screen controls with which I could whip Venoms 
 tendrils around to cause harm and fear. Now what do I get? I get a belligerent Norman Osborn whose 
 relevance as a villain is completely eliminated because his inner turmoil cannot be represented 
 by smashing things. Goblin isnt an interesting villain because he can throw fireballs. Whoopee 
 doo, everyone in comics can do that. Hes interesting because his business, riches, and son hang 
 in the balance of the greed and hatred that has consumed him as a result of his work. Its his 
 relationships to the other characters that make him noteworthy, not his powers. Apparently, the 
 developers decided that this was not the case, and that jumping around and tossing guys at walls 
 would be too much fun to pass up.
  
  Im just going to dig in and attack the gameplay first. The handling of the Goblins levels is 
 abhorrent. He isnt agile, his fireball attacks are weak at best, and his unique character move 
 is being able to pick up enemies by the head and then throw them at whatever he chooses. Admittedly, 
 throwing guys around sounds like a pretty fun way to pretend youre the hulking Ultimate Goblin. 
 What you dont find out until youre actually playing is that with puny human in hand, you cannot 
 move. At all. Apparently, holding a man thats a quarter of your size prohibits the Goblin for 
 using his super strength and being able to, I dont know, do anything. Because picking guys up 
 is such a hassle and that that is Goblins only real shtick, his levels quickly degenerate into 
 stomping through the area mashing the attack button to clear the way. Some fun.
  
  Spideys levels, on the other hand, offer a bit more fun. First of all, all of the animations from 
 Ultimate Spider-Man on the DS have been carried over, and they were strong to begin with. Spider-Man 
 is pleasing to watch swinging about, mashing up baddies or making huge leaps. He looks natural 
 doing what hes doing and thats a lot more than can be said for the Goblin. However, the gameplay 
 premise behind Spideys levels will wear on you somewhere just after the third level mark when 
 it dawns on you that all youll ever being doing as Spidey is A) Moving a citizen to a safe place 
 B) Mashing the attack button to watch canned animations
  or
  C) Hitting switches
  
  Simply playing as Spider-Man does not a fun game make. It would have been nice to see the developers 
 really make use of Spideys abilities and maybe toss some stealth levels into the game, or perhaps 
 have spider sense available outside of boss fights. As is, Spider-Man just bursts into an area, 
 mashes X, hits a switch, and busts out of there. Theres hardly anytime to fit fun into that tight 
 schedule anyway.
  
  This game is also jam packed with real oddities. The first thing that stuck out for me was that 
 even though the game is set in the Ultimate Marvel universe, the art style was from Amazing Spider-Man. 
 Dont get me wrong, the art is still cool, the comic book treatment that the cutscenes got is entirely 
 fitting, and I really appreciate the fully voice acted story. Its just inconsistent because in 
 the Ultimate universe, Spider-Man is fifteen, and very (I mean very) scrawny. In gameplay, this 
 remains true, but whenever the cutscenes swoop in to take the story reigns, Spider-Man looks and 
 sounds thirty five. It just seemed careless to me to omit the Ultimate Universes unique art style 
 and replace it with another one when, one game previous (Ultimate Spider-Man DS) , it had been executed 
 so well.
  
  The second, and intolerable, oddity that I was able to nail down was the hit detection. Not only 
 was it a recurring issue during fights, it remained an issue for every boss fight in the game. 
 If the enemy, be it the Goblin, Kingpin or any other, is in the midst of carrying out an animation, 
 they cannot be harmed. During the Goblin fights, he exposes his entire front as he raises his arms 
 to attack, but if you move in to take advantage your flailing Spidey limbs will catch nothing, 
 only to have the Goblin clobber you on the noggin for being stupid enough to try. Its infuriating, 
 and it forces you to find exploits in the bosses patterns rather than defeating them by outwitting 
 them. Thats right, youll have to find a way to cancel their animations, or get them stuck clipping 
 in a wall in order to get your shots in. Its not satisfying in the least.
  
  On the whole, the game just does not merit a purchase. If youre an Ultimate Spider-Man fan, you 
 already know this story from the comic books. If youre not, I can tell you that its much better 
 told in the comics if youre interested. The story may have been the saving grace of Battle for 
 New York, but having fallen flat and with no strength of gameplay to back it up, theres just so 
 little fun to be squeezed out of this title that it is in no way recommendable. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
