-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Spider-Man: Web of Shadows
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/ds/action/spidermanwebofshadows/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 Excellent, fluid animation.
 Plenty of quality voice acting.
 Precise controls make pulling off flashy moves easy.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 Can be beaten in under four hours.
 Combat takes a while to get interesting.
 Lots of backtracking.
 Story is underdeveloped.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Oct 21, 2008
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 7
Critic Score: 7.9, 11 Review (s)
User Score: 7.7, 44 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Activision
Developer: Griptonite Games
Genre: 2D Platformer
Date: Oct 21, 2008
ESRB: Everyone 10+

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Web of Shadows takes Spider-Man into new territory with an enjoyable action adventure romp that's 
 over too soon. 

  As a superhero imbued with arachnidlike powers, Spider-Man has seen his share of ups and downs, 
 and the same can be said of his video games. His last few outings on the DS have all toyed with 
 the 3D side-scroller formula, to moderate success. Web of Shadows returns to this formula but adds 
 a few twists that take Spidey in a fun, albeit short, direction.  

           In the black suit, Spidey is slower but more powerful.      

  Symbiotes have taken 
 over New York, and Spider-Man, along with a couple of his allies and enemies, is out to find the 
 one responsible. The story of Web of Shadows plays out like a sampler of its bigger console counterpart. 
 Instead of following a long and epic struggle for the city, the DS version focuses on one night. 
 There's not a lot of context or setup -- you're never told why Spider-Man is back in the black suit -- but 
 the presentation of what little narrative there is is great.  

  Web of Shadows plays like a brawler crossed with an action adventure game like Castlevania or Metroid. 
 The gameworld includes four sections, most of which are accessible from the beginning. As you progress, 
 you'll unlock more abilities that will gain you access to previously inaccessible areas. The level 
 design compliments Spider-Mans powers with plenty of crawl spaces and a good sense of verticality. 
 The four sections that make up the tiny piece of New York you get to explore offer a nice variety, 
 theres just not enough of it. Youll see every section multiple times within the four hours it 
 takes to finish the game.  

  The constantly respawning enemies in Web of Shadows aren't exactly tough, but they do tend to swarm. 
 Most areas give you plenty of room to zip around and pick off enemies, but some locales are a real 
 pain to fight in. Expect to die a few unfair deaths at the hands of a symbiote swarm in a claustrophobic 
 corridor or crawl space. With the tap of a button, you can switch between the red and black suits, 
 which are each equipped with their own combos and abilities. Defeating enemies earns you experience 
 orbs that you can use to purchase new moves at the numerous save points. Because theres a never-ending 
 supply of enemies, leveling up is extremely easy. Initially, the combat is a little boring as you 
 pound on one button over and over, but it picks up as some of the more acrobatic moves are unlocked. 
 By the end of the game youll be dodging, webbing, and kicking like only Spider-Man can.  

  The controls in Web of Shadows are tight and responsive. You'll use the face buttons to execute 
 attacks and special moves, while the touch screen is used to bring in supporting characters during 
 boss fights, and to play the death minigame. When you die, instead of booting you back to the last 
 save point, you'll get a chance to revive Spider-Man by dragging red orbs to him while avoiding 
 poisonous black orbs. If you work fast enough, you can return to the fight with a full life bar. 
 It's a fun mechanic that gets you back into the action quickly and makes death less penalizing. 

  Spider-Man has never looked better on the DS. His exaggerated, almost gangly features are recreated 
 with surprising detail. Spidey's animation is fantastic, fluidly capturing his over-the-top acrobatic 
 moves. The red and black suits feature their own unique animations as well, making them more than 
 just a color swap. Since the game takes place in one night, most of the environments have a dark 
 and dreary look to them. Each background is full of neat details, though, like broken office furniture 
 and dripping black goo.  

           While in the red suit, he's more agile.      

  The music is your typical dramatically paced superhero fanfare. Though it's not particularly memorable, 
 it kicks in during tough boss battles and lends an air of urgency to the proceedings. The story 
 is conveyed through a good amount of spoken dialogue from Spider-Man and his friends. The actor 
 playing Spider-Man appears to be tapping a bit of Michelangelo of Ninja Turtles fame, and his delivery 
 of Spidey's numerous quips is excellent.  

  Spider-Man Web of Shadows is a slickly produced game that's a lot of fun while it lasts. The mix 
 of beat-'em-up action and Metroidlike exploration works well with the source material. The length 
 of the game is so short that it feels like reading a comic that's a part of a larger story, making 
 this a good companion to the console game but a tough sell on its own.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (2 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: sajjed
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 28, 2008 10:20 am PT
Review:  There are a couple of things i gotta say about this game.... ITS... AMAZING. I don't know what to 
 say. Spiderman web of shadows for the DS is just great. Short but really good. The graphics are 
 good especially as its for the DS. The character Models are good. The Enemy Al is also very complex. 
 The symbiotes may be easy to defeat but they tend to swarm which is what makes it difficult to 
 defeat them. The Boss battles is great as well. Very hard to defeat the bosses as they have long 
 health bars and tend to learn from their mistakes and may involve more than 1 try to defeat them. 
 Overall i think this game is..... just a great masterpiece!
  
  Graphics: Good, The character models was really good and had a lot of detail. The background in 
 the game had a lot of detail as well with a lot of effects such as ooze and slime etc...
  
  Voice acting: The Voice acting was great as well. The guy that played peter Parker seemed aright 
 to me as well as the rest of the cast.
  
  Gameplay: The gameplay was what really caught my eye. All the attacks spider-man can do is cool. 
 He doesn't start of with a lot of moves at the beginning but as time passes.... he really does fight 
 like a spider can. The combat system is good. The enemy will try to ground you if you try to escape 
 from them or if you try to jump into the air. The enemy can also climb on walls and do high jumps. 
 Also Spidey can buy abilities for both his suits, red and black to improve how he can fight. Red 
 is agile, fast, quick and mainly uses Spideys web to into his combos. Black suit is more of a stronger, 
 powerhouse version of Spiderman. 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: GeekyDad
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 26, 2008 5:01 pm PT
Review:  I'm gonna make this one a quickie, since I wrote about it elsewhere. But it's a game I would hate 
 to see get overlooked or written off by folks who've had enough with the Spider-man series on DS. 
 This is the sixth game on the handheld, so you have to wonder what else Activision could possibly 
 offer with Spider-man.
  
  I read the official IGN review, and I'm pleased they enjoyed it. But Harris seems to have missed 
 one of the most important elements of this game -- something you won't see in any other DS game, 
 including Ninaj Gaiden: Dragon Sword. Web of Shadows allows you to chain combos with pretty much 
 the same freedom, fluidity and fun as the first Xbox Ninja Gaiden game. Truly an incredible feat 
 on DS.
  
  Additionally, the AI here is smart as hell. Bosses aren't cheap, but they're lightning fast, have 
 deadly attacks, tons of HP, and if you attempt to spam your way out of danger, they'll change their 
 tactics. 
  
  There are five areas of New York you'll have access to, and though it is a short game, you really 
 get a big burst of fun jam packed into the experience. It's a game you'll enjoy playing again.
 
  
  It's also a game that looks fantastic on DS. The character models move very smoothly, and the environments 
 and lighting are some of the best the system is likely to ever see. Sound effects and music, too, 
 are right up there in league with the quality of the rest of the game.
  
  I'm not the biggest Spidey fan, though I did have fun with both Ultimate Spider-man and Battle 
 for New York. But I'm always on the lookout for a good action adventure. This one is tops. If you 
 are looking for a stiff challenge and a combat system to back it up, do not pass on this game. 
 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
