-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Spitfire Heroes: Tales of the Royal Air Force
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/ds/action/spitfireheroestalesoftheroyalairforce/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 Impressive, artistic cutscenes.
 Tight controls.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 Terrible, pixilated environments.
 Missions are repetitive and uninspired.
 Multiplayer is limited and requires multiple cartridges.
 Even the easiest setting is quite a challenge.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Apr  8, 2008
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 5
Critic Score: 4.9, 10 Review (s)
User Score: 5.5, 20 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Destineer
Developer: Big John Games
Genre: Flight Action
Date: Mar 5, 2008
ESRB: Everyone 10+

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Spitfire Heroes does little to distinguish itself among a myriad of middling flight combat games 
 on the DS. 

  Spitfire Heroes: Tales of the Royal Air Force is a 3D air-combat game based on a series of books 
 by the same name. As a lone fighter pilot, you engage in a series of offensive and defensive missions 
 to single-handedly protect Europe from German advances during World War II. The game simulates 
 air combat with some success, but shoddy production values ultimately prevent Spitfire Heroes from 
 standing out among other mediocre combat games on the DS.  

  The mission-based structure includes such objectives as destroying ground targets, defending your 
 base, and taking out waves of attack forces. These are presented as dossier files before each mission, 
 giving you a good idea of what to watch out for on your next outing. Combat is relegated to the 
 top screen, and the D-pad controls pitch and direction. The bottom screen displays an informative 
 instrument panel, though it doesn't feature any touch sensitivity. The A and B buttons adjust your 
 throttle, while the R trigger fires a limitless stream of bullets. Pressing X allows you to do 
 a barrel roll and avoid enemy fire, although it's rarely effective. The game generally handles 
 well, which is fortunate because success often demands pixel-perfect accuracy.  

           How close to the ground is too close?      

  Although Spitfire Heroes offers a sufficient 
 variety of mission objectives, the same cannot be said of the gameplay mechanics. Typically, success 
 boils down to shooting everything you see on your radar, and completing the objectives doesn't 
 necessarily mean you've beaten the level. Mission performance is based on a variety of factors, 
 including the number of lives lost, completion time, and the number of enemies you've destroyed. 
 You have three tries to finish each level, but even on the easiest difficulty setting, you might 
 find yourself repeating missions two or three times before succeeding. It's frustrating to complete 
 a lengthy stage only to find out afterward that you need to replay it for a better score to continue 
 to the next mission.  

  Initially, the game's presentation is impressive. Realistic sound effects, appropriate music, and 
 grainy cutscenes lend authentic style to an otherwise tired genre. There's also a gallery where 
 you can view realistic models of planes that appear throughout the game. However, once you enter 
 a mission, the stark contrast between presentation and gameplay becomes apparent. Environments 
 are dull and nondescript, making it difficult to gauge altitude, enemy distance, or weapons fire. 
 This is particularly frustrating when you're forced to fly close to the ground to destroy enemy 
 tanks, only to explode without warning and find that you were much closer to the ground than you 
 thought. Your enemies also seem to have much better aim than you, meaning you'll have to attack 
 from extreme distances to remain safe. Terrible draw distances force you to shoot at clusters of 
 three or four pixels, making successful hits seem random at best. It's also difficult to judge 
 your speed because everything on the screen moves at a snail's pace. You'll often come upon an 
 enemy plane much faster than you expected and then crash. Half of the time, this head-on collision 
 results in your plane exploding; the other half of the time, you simply bounce off each other and 
 continue on your way.  

           Do a barrel roll... for no particular reason.      

  Up to four people can compete in the game's Battle mode, provided you have four copies of Spitfire 
 Heroes. Considering the lackluster visuals and how limited the multiplayer options are, it's a 
 shame that single-cart download play wasn't implemented. A cooperative mode might also have expanded 
 the appeal and made the game's punishing difficulty more palatable. Unfortunately, the developers 
 would have you believe that the entire Royal Air Force consists of a single plane because even 
 the single-player campaign makes no attempt to render any RAF fighters besides your own.  

  Ultimately, it's difficult to discern exactly why Spitfire Heroes would be worth a purchase. If 
 you're a glutton for punishment, you may get some added replay value by completing each of the 
 three difficulty levels, though there's little motivation to do so. There are plenty of middling 
 combat sims on the DS, and Spitfire Heroes does not offer enough in the way of realism or fantasy 
 to appeal to fans of either persuasion.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (3 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: jangled
Rating: 6.5
Date: Aug 25, 2008 12:29 pm PT
Review:  Admittedly Spitfire Heroes is a "Bare Bones" Flight Combat Sim. But it's not without its positives.
 
  First, it's easy to jump right in and fly. It runs very well, and it's immersion factor is high 
 enough to keep you busy throughout the various missions.
  The controls are quite good, yet fussy enough to keep you from "mailing it in". The game is not 
 about to stand the world on it's ear, but considering the competition, it doesn't "stink" either. 
 Basically it's fun. 
  The graphics are an enigma. I can't decide if more ground detali would help or hurt. On the one 
 hand more "eye candy" might make spotting targets more difficult. In the case of tanks (which are 
 tiny) it might be near impossible. On the other hand it might make it easier to know your altitude. 
 If graphics are your thing, you might hate this title; But then again, how good are the graphics 
 in Space Invaders? And after all, you ARE on a DS!
  Bottom line: Neither Great nor Disastrous.
  If you want a fighter sim with a first-person feel,
 
  Spitfire Heroes might fit the bill.
  I don't regret the purchase. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: fencingbean
Rating: 3.5
Date: Jun 7, 2008 12:33 am PT
Review:  This game simulates flight combat to a reasonable level with ok controls and artistic cutscenes, 
 but terrible graphics, swimming textures, repetetive missions, poor frame rates, ridiculous difficulty 
 and limited multiplayer ruins the game.
  
  The Graphics (2/10) : The graphics in this game are horrible. The landscapes are bland and it is 
 impossible to tell when you are too close to the ground. Your plane and the landscape are both 
 terribly pixilated, so this game scores an ugly two for graphics.
  
  Controls (7/10) : The controls are one of the few good things about this game. The pixilated planes 
 handle and turn reasonable well. This game scores a respectable seven for controls.
  
  Multiplayer (4/10) : You need to all have the game to play multiplayer and this is no mode which 
 allows you to be on the same team, which may reduce the difficulty of this game.
  
  Difficulty (2/10) : It is good for a game to be reasonably challenging. This game takes this far 
 too far. The difficulty on the easiest setting is still very high.
  
  Overall (3.5) : This game is definetly not worth buying as its bad features outweigh is bad significantly. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jvsalgado
Rating: 7.5
Date: Mar 16, 2008 11:21 pm PT
Review:  In the 3+ years the Nintendo DS has been around, the flight action genre has been inexplicably 
 ignored. Although the Nintendo DS has the horsepower to pull off Nintendo 64 era graphics and sound, 
 the only game that comes close to being a satisfying flight combat experience is the hit-and-miss 
 Star Fox Command.
  
  In comes Spitfire Heroes: Tales of the Royal Air Force. It has a more straightforward approach 
 to it than the SF Command strategy hybrid. The mission structure in SH: TRAF is more Battle For 
 Naboo in nature, with specific targets to hit or time periods in which to defend allies in order 
 to successfully complete missions.
  
  All of the missions are fought using a Hurricane or Spitfire fighter plane. It would have served 
 the game well to allow players which plane to use in the missions. However, variance in mission 
 structure keeps the game fresh, as one mission might require you to defend a city from bombers, 
 while another will require you to merely photograph (using a camera affixed to your Spitfire) heavy 
 artillery emplacements without being detected by enemy fighters. 
  
  The graphics are fairly decent for a DS game. The vehicles in the game look excellent, and the 
 game generally moves at a smooth clip, even with a lot of gunfire or enemies on screen. The terrains 
 vary only slightly from level to level, as one might take place a grassy coastline, while another 
 might take place in a grassy, hilly area. This is only a minor quibble, though, and does not necessarily 
 detract from the overall game.
  
  It must be said that this is a very challenging game. Even on the easiest mode, you'll find yourself 
 repeating levels. This is because the system that the game uses for determining mission success 
 is not too different than one you might have faced in any college classroom. Positives you do during 
 a mission (shoot down bombers, destroy tanks) count towards your "grade". However, negatives during 
 a mission (deaths, deaths of allies) subtract points from your score. Anything above a 60% is passing, 
 while anything below is a failing grade. Just like in Philosophy 101 with Mr. Pinckaers. A failing 
 grade requires you to replay the level until you receive a passing grade in order to progress. 
 Shooting down fighters and bombers can both be arduous tasks as well. Fighters tend to have amazing 
 agility, and can be extremely elusive when trying to chase them down. Bombers have two ballgunners 
 with excellent aim, and though they have linear paths, getting in firing range of these bombers 
 can be dangerous. That said, this game isn't difficult to the point of frustrating the player. 
 It does take patience sometimes, and skill, but it only makes that "Mission Complete" screen that 
 much sweeter when you do get it.
  
  This game does not support Nintendo Wi-Fi or single-cartridge download play, two features that 
 by now should be standard on all DS games.
  
  Overall, this is a very satisfying flight action experience for the Nintendo DS. Anyone who enjoys 
 flight action games (not flight sim) or World War II games should have this game in their collection, 
 as it fills an empty void in the Nintendo DS game market. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
