-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Spore Creatures
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/ds/strategy/spore/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 Cute adventure across multiple planets.
 Varied quest objectives keep things from getting stale.
 Creature creator is surprisingly robust.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 Some frustrating gameplay elements.
 Various control and camera quirks.
 Being forced into certain creature designs minimizes player creativity.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Sep  9, 2008
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 6.5
Critic Score: 6.7, 14 Review (s)
User Score: 7.2, 252 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: EA Games
Developer: Maxis
Genre: Strategy
Date: Sep 7, 2008
ESRB: Everyone

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Spore Creatures is pleasant and charming, but ultimately forgettable. 

  Spore Creatures for the DS isn't the far-reaching trek through evolution you may have expected -- but 
 don't take that as a reason to totally dismiss this charming title. It's still a cute adventure 
 across multiple planets, and it features a pared-down version of the creature creation tool that 
 helped make the PC release such a success. It has some annoying quirks, and it won't inspire an 
 emotional connection between you and your digital doppelganger, but Spore Creatures is still a 
 pleasant diversion and an appealing, if ordinary, companion to its bigger brother.  

           The creature creator lets you create a a freaky, wafer-thin beast.      

  Your galactic 
 journey is set in motion when your companion creature, Little Oogie, is abducted by an evil alien 
 for reasons unknown. In response, you accumulate evolutionary improvements and apply them to yourself 
 with a singular goal: rescue the little bugger. You'll visit various planets and continents, acquiring 
 new spaceship parts -- in addition to limbs for your own beastly body. You'll alternately befriend 
 and alienate nests of other creatures as you explore the various planetside environs; and while 
 the voyage is linear, it's easygoing and, at 10 hours, reasonably lengthy.  

  The creature creator you use to develop your avatar is limited, but it still lets you snap together 
 a number of interesting limbs and other bits. Notably, your creature is a two-dimensional collection 
 of parts and pieces rather than a full 3D model, though within these bounds, you can still resize 
 and rotate the various appendages. This can result in a gangly mess of odd-looking eyes and tails 
 tottering across the landscape, but there's still something remarkably charming about such paper-thin 
 oddities. Moving pieces on and off of your beast can get a little annoying, since it's far too 
 easy to grab the wrong piece if your creature is a busy mess of limbs. But all in all, the 2D approach 
 works, and the creation tool offers the right combination of form and function.  

  Each body part confers particular attributes and bonuses, such as improved attack ratings and special 
 abilities called bio-powers that you can use in combat. You need to be far more conscious of these 
 factors compared to Spore PC because your mission objectives are often incredibly specific, forcing 
 you to use a particular appendage to accomplish your goals. For example, you'll need to cross different 
 types of terrain at certain points, such as desert, ice, or lava; And to do so, you need to attach 
 very specific body parts. Or, you may need to prove your good intentions to another race of creatures 
 by equipping one of their arms. Mission-required adjustments like this devalue the fun of the creation 
 process, since it shoves aside player inventiveness in favor of arbitrary gameplay mechanics.  
 

  Many of your missions are fun, though, and there are a number of gameplay elements sprinkled in 
 to keep things interesting. You can pick items up and throw them with a flick of the stylus, so 
 at various points you will need to throw rocks at weather machines to break them, fling food at 
 starving creatures, or water plants by throwing liquid-laden flowers at them. These activities 
 are amusing -- though not all missions are created equal. One annoying quest initiates a minigame, 
 asking you to fling rocks at thieving creatures by tapping on them as they appear. The vague instructions 
 and picky, pixel-perfect tapping required turns a fun diversion into a frustrating detour. In fact, 
 simply navigating can be problematic: Stylus controls are a little slippery, and the camera has 
 a habit of zooming in and out in various unhelpful ways, often keeping you from getting a helpful 
 view of your surroundings.  

  Occasionally, you'll need (or want) to befriend other creatures, a facet that requires you to utilize 
 one of two gameplay elements. To cuddle with other creatures (though we're not sure why anyone 
 would want to cuddle with a scaled purple lizard) , you send out a friendly call, which prompts 
 a series of smiley faces above your prospective buddy's head. Then, you drag the smileys downward 
 and rub them around on the creature. Or if a flower petal appears over its head, you drag it down 
 to initiate a rhythm minigame reminiscent of Elite Beat Agents. This minigame works just fine (though 
 the accompanying tunes aren't exactly memorable) , and in the last hours of the game it gets surprisingly 
 challenging.  

           Insert Pokemon 'catch 'em all' reference here.      

  You'll also fight other creatures along the way -- sometimes because you have to, other times because 
 you want to. Either way, combat requires little more than slashing the stylus across your target 
 and perhaps tapping on an icon to initiate one of your bio-powers. Your battle prowess is related 
 only to your equipped body parts, rather than any actual skill, though you may find that getting 
 your slashes to register is sometimes a bit of a hassle. These battles are over quickly, though, 
 and they are mildly fun while they last. Good thing, too, because if you decide to go the meat-eating 
 route with your animal, you'll need to fight to get food. But this creates one of the game's real 
 issues: You need the meat to heal, but to get it, you need to fight. If you're close to death, 
 the best way to handle things is to let yourself die and spawn back at the nest.  

  Spore Creatures features a colorful, attractive visual design paired with cute sound effects and 
 a laid-back, spacey soundtrack. It also features some of the PC version's online connectivity, 
 albeit in an extremely stripped-down form. In this case, you can download other players' creatures, 
 which then appear within your own game as you explore. This is a neat addition, though its limited 
 scope doesn't give Spore Creatures much additional replay value. But no matter: On its own, Spore 
 Creatures is still a cute -- if not particularly memorable -- adventure game.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (17 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: Cnnrcole
Rating: 1
Date: Apr 18, 2009 2:46 pm PT
Review:  wow the worst game ever made has now come to kill the DS spirit. agian dont even think about it 
 not only has recked the name of spore but has mutalated the ds. Its not fun in any way, you would 
 get more fun putting it in a microwave oven and letting it burn slowly. Now dont get it rong Spore 
 for the computer is an amazing game that can be played non stop for years on end with no repression. 
 But it is nothing like that for the ds, not only does it look like a four year old drawing on the 
 back of a placemat at wendys, but also has no custom peices for use. And the buildings cant be 
 made in an easy way even if you use the stylist and not the d pad. It is also way to easy and has 
 no challenge what so ever so if you are thinking about giting this game think agian and buy the 
 one for the computer or wait for the wii one that will hopefully be as good as the comps one. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Giratina617
Rating: 5.5
Date: Feb 18, 2009 5:34 pm PT
Review:  First of all the camera is always at a bad angle. Your creativity is limited and there is basically 
 no story. I played it for about an hour and I was bored out of my mind. It may be because I only 
 play games that a friend has so I know is good. You should not buy into the hype. You start off 
 as an egg that hatches and goes up on to beach and meets a bird like creature and there is talking 
 for about 2-3 minutes. You are on a quest to rescue a friend that gets captured. Still the story 
 is way off track from that. I do not recommend this game to anybody at all. If any thing I would 
 get this game as a prank for a friend. However if you a big fan of spore I might give it a try. 
 The only reason I gave it that high of a score is because you can be a bit creative. I would rather 
 get any other spore game out there. Peace out! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Cheaster2008
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jan 4, 2009 1:26 pm PT
Review:  One of those now and again suprisingly better than you thought it as gonna be. Spore Creatures 
 gets better as you proceed because you get more body points and better parts for your spore creature. 
 i play this game about 2hrs a day. I've play really crud games and some awesome sweetness but this 
 is niether of them. This game is a sit down on the couch to play the first game you pick out your 
 ginormous back of amazing god knows what. Eating little inocent sporelings is hilarious. Hear their 
 bones being crushed. Sometimes it makes me mad cause you have to dig in water or throw rocks at 
 sattelite thingys on frozen ice. i advise you make a spore creature that can walk on ice, lava, 
 water, thorny terrain and desert sand. it would help a tonne. 
  
  Rounding off statment
  If you've gotta good game then dont buy this. If you have nothing to play but have a DS then buy 
 it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jakrachet
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 31, 2008 8:52 am PT
Review:  If you like action adventure games you will like Spore, if not love it. I love it beacause of all 
 the parts you can put on your creature, for example, you can put a Supupie mouth on your creature 
 it will shoot an inferno of flames out of its mouth at the enemy your creature is attacking ( I 
 wish it shot flames out of its butt, now that would be funny!) , you can make your creature be a 
 carnivore or a herbevore, (The supupie mouth is a carnivore mouth, the only downside to that is 
 sometimes you have to eat the sporelings and listen to them suffer, unhg! I have the supupie mouth 
 on my creature) its much easier to find food if your creature is a herbevore but if your creature 
 is a carnivore it can help it with battle which was explained earlier. You can do a combo mouth 
 so your creature can be an omnivore. The arms help with attack the more arms you have the higher 
 your attack is going to be. After you put on so many arms the thingy won't let you put on any more 
 arms on the max is 4 I think. The legs help you with defense, same thing with the arms, after you 
 put so many legs on the thingameggijer won't let you put any more on, the max is 2. The eyes let 
 you see better so on so forth. The tail helps with attack too. Anyway this game is super awsome, 
 you will like it better if you have a good temper and if you have patiance. I have to admit that 
 sometimes the battling gets hard, but thats usually fixed by changing parts and adding them. Somtimes 
 its hard to make friends but its always worth it because they can help you battle, because sometimes, 
 SOMETIMES! changing and adding parts just dosn't do the trick. Whenever you battle and win your 
 creature gains experience and levels up and that lets you put stronger parts on your creature. THIS 
 GAME IS AWSOME! BUUUUYY IIIIT! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: _AbBaNdOn
Rating: 7
Date: Dec 5, 2008 3:24 am PT
Review:  Man what a let down. Thank the gods my video rental place started getting DS games or I might have 
 baught this piece of crap. The game has some good/fun elements... customizing your creature is 
 super easy you just click and drag pieces into place and then change their size or rotation, painting 
 body parts is equally as easy. Different body parts have different stats and abilities and for 
 the most part you will constantly be upgrading your litte creature. Some parts give bio-powers 
 which are offensive and defensive abilities you can use in battle. Other parts help in crossing 
 terrain. Its totally up to you on how to make your creature look though. We could both be using 
 the same exact parts and have extremely different looking creatures.
  
  Another nice element is the ability to either be friendly or aggressive towards the other life 
 forms (usually both hehe) . Do you want to take over nests by wiping out all the other creatures 
 or by forming alliances?? This is mostly how you gain new body parts. Forming friendships or killing 
 other creatures usually makes them drop new body parts although eventually there is nothing left 
 to give in which case they have outlived their usefulness......
  
  To make friends with other creatures you either have to "cuddle" with them by catching these smiley 
 face cloud thingies and rubbing it all over the other creature with the stylus or by dancing together 
 which is done by tapping on these flower petals as these glowing dots pass over them. Of course 
 the further you go in the game the dancing starts to suck because the dots increase in speed and 
 complexity.
  
  Fights are pretty easy, A ring of giant fangs or claws or whatever sprout out of the ground to 
 encircle the combatants. Then you just slash through your enemy with the stylus for a normal attack 
 or click on one of your bio powers if they are available. Using powers takes energy and although 
 there are parts that regenerate your energy using your bio-powers is usually a one or two shot 
 affair. They probably use a % of your energy instead of an actual amount. Your parts also determine 
 your attack power and defense. if you get in over your head you can move to the edge of the ring 
 and then click a red arrow to run away, but you will sacrifice health to do it.
  
  Depending on what type of mouth/s you are using you can refill your health by eating plants and/or 
 meat. Energy can always be refilled by eating specific plants.
  
  About the only other really cool thing about the game are all the goals. The game keeps track of 
 a ton of different tasks and when you complete one you get told in game, you unlock a medal or 
 badge, and you get these "points". You can spend points to unlock special parts and or cheats. 
 Cheats can only be unlocked after you complete the game and I highly recommend saving them till 
 then.
  
  Which brings us to the bad stuff about this game. Should we start with how pathetically short it 
 is or the glitches? How about the fact that you cant backtrack in the stupid game. What about the 
 insanely stupid low level cap??
  
  One thing I wish would have worked different is the body parts. There should have been ways to 
 upgrade body parts (like by eating meat from fallen foes) . Usually you just have to stack body parts 
 onto your monster to make it stronger/tougher. 2 mouths, 2 pairs of legs, 2 arms. I mean come on, 
 it looks like crap. All the other creatures use only 1 type of body part. The way they did means 
 that everyones creatures will probably all be using the same body parts by the end of the game. 
 They will all look different but only in proportion and color and position.
  
  So anyways my favorites parts in this game were making friends with a nest of creatures and then 
 killing them and eating them. Then it was making friends with them and making them help me kill 
 members of their own species and then turning on them and killing them. And then my all time favorite 
 moment in the game was when i killed a creature and then chucked the meat it dropped to its buddies 
 who in turn ATE HIM lololol!!!!.
  
  The worst part in the game for me was when.... errr guess I shouldnt say.... lets just say I had 
 to help defend something and you have to play this stupid minigame and it took me like 5-6 tries 
 before i finally accomplished it. I think that stupid event is what I was doing when my character 
 hit max level lol.
  
  The cheats are pretty cool but since you only get to use them after you beat the game they are 
 pretty pointless. The only fun thing about them is the time and effort it will take you to unlock 
 them, by earning all those badges.
  
  This game was mildy fun to play but there is no way in hell it is worth buying. Maybe when its 
 on ebay for a penny and 3$ shipping lol. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hardband
Rating: 5
Date: Dec 1, 2008 12:45 pm PT
Review:  This game is pretty dull and very repetitive. It can be amusing but in the end lacks what it needs: 
 freedom. This game could be excellent like the pc version but falls short! it got so repetive i 
 havent even finished it! Give this a miss and go for the pc version. The task are as straight forward 
 as this: get this, kill this, destroy this and befriend this makeing for a very linear experiance! 
 Although saying this, youger kids may find it an easy begging to adventure games but, other than 
 that i would not reccomend it. The creature makeing tool is actually okay but its the need of haveing 
 to put certain pieces on which make it annoying! The game really should have offered multiple ways 
 to get to the same place. This would make it excellent but sadly falls short. This game is lacking 
 in every way and includes no variety so....
  
  
  GET SPORE ON THE PC!!!!!!!!!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: meinte34
Rating: 8
Date: Oct 25, 2008 8:37 am PT
Review:  The good:
  - Creature creator has a lot of options
  - The Badges, when you beat the game this is fun
  - The game-play, i just liked it.
  
  The 
 bad:
  - Too short
  - Too easy
  
  I really liked this game when i played my 1st play-through.
  after that i found that there were 
 the Badges, some sort of "cards" which you can collect and spent in the the cheat or part shop.
 
  But doing things like "eat many food" is'nt much fun.
  Creating a creature is very easy and really advanced.
  Then there is the story, a friend of yours 
 is kidnapped and you have to rescue him, is fine, but not great.
  But after all those bad things, why did I give a eight?
  because of the rest.
  you can trade 
 creatures, and you don't HAVE to trade friend codes.
  So for the friend-less people this option is great.
  It's a perfect and original game, but do 
 not expect a game which you can play the rest of the year. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SSBFan12
Rating: 8.5
Date: Oct 19, 2008 3:24 pm PT
Review:  In this game you start off as a little spore monster that you are very weak and can't attack or 
 socialize yet but you fight parts and then you can create a monster. There are three main things 
 that a monster has. They are power, socialize, and defense. If you make a monster that has a really 
 big socialize power then you can go up to other monsters and when you do then you have to touch 
 a little image that lets you call them and then they might have a smiley face floating above there 
 head or a flower. If they have a smiley face then you rub it and it keeps getting attracted to 
 you. If there is a flower then you just have to rub it a little bit then you start a little drum 
 beat thing. If you work on power then you make more damage on the other monsters when you attack 
 them. And if you work on defense then it is harder for the monsters to kill you. The controls are 
 alittle hard to learn because a moves you to the right. x moves you to the left. b moves you down. 
 And Y moves you up. Or you can use the control pad to move. Left and right controls the camera 
 angle. Near the start you versus against the hardest monsters. To get level ups you must complete 
 a goal or find a part to build for your monsters. The story is a little dull and boring because 
 you just go after your friend when he is kidnapped and you need all these clues to find him. The 
 main and fun part of the game is creating your spore creature. You can make it anyway you want 
 it with legs, arms, two legs, etc. 
  
  The good of the game is that it is really fun makeing spore creatures. The goals are really easy 
 to do. The planets are well designed. 
  
  The bad of the game is that the story is dull and boring. The controls are terrible. The game is 
 a bit hard to play.
  
  Overall this is a game for people who likes creating monsters and making them fight. I rate this 
 game 8.5 outta 10. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Egamer15
Rating: 5.5
Date: Oct 19, 2008 3:09 pm PT
Review:  I feel sorry for the people out there who purchased this game with their own money, expecting something 
 similiar to the spore experience on the pc. If I had bought this game with my own money instead 
 of getting it for my birthday, I would be giving this game a much lower score. The entire game 
 is unbalanced. The battles are frustratingly hard, and provide no appeal or fun. The entire time 
 I'm battling I'm worried that my DS will break because of the gimmicky slashing movement used in 
 battle. Other parts of the game are extremely easy, such as the excessively common fetch-quests, 
 which I had no fun doing. Who wants to fetch stuff for creatures you barely even know!? On the 
 other hand, the creature creator is pretty fun to use once you've collected a lot of parts for 
 your creature. But to get these parts you have to plod through the uninteresting game and a pathetic 
 excuse for a story. I hope that when people read this review they will go out and buy a better 
 game than this one. If you have a kid, this game will probably be just right for them though. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cjyellowbelt
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 15, 2008 5:50 pm PT
Review:  This is probably one of THE BEST games you can find on the DS. People have been saying it's a bad 
 game, but it's not.
  
  Sound: 8.5
  
  Story: 8.0 Very good story.
  
  Controls: 9.0 The controls are great to say the least.
  
  Combat: 10.0 The way that you attack 
 is fitting, you 'slash' the stylus across the combatant, and your creature slashes the combatant. 
 Very easy to control the movements, whether you use the stylus, or you use the buttons to move 
 around and "fight".
  
  Creature Creation: 9.5 The fact that you can custom create your creature alone is enough to get 
 you to buy this game. All you do to make your character is select and drag the peices onto it, 
 if you wanted to (and if your Body Points allow it.) you could have a creature with a thousand 
 eyes, five mouths, twenty legs, and thirty-four arms.
  
  I got this game just for the fact that you could custom create your character, and I got WAAAAY 
 more than I bargained for. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: The_Reviews
Rating: 4.5
Date: Oct 11, 2008 12:44 pm PT
Review:  It is too short, if you want it get it. But i say don't. The shortness makes it boring. Ea usally 
 makes good games, not this one. Just find somthing else. It is overpriced. There is only 6 planets 
 it takes like 10 minutes to beat each one. The manual dosen't say how to attack. You can't get 
 any special abilites to breath underwater, no water levels. The laging of it. The creatures are 
 paper looking things. The cheats are weird. The gar' skuther is easy to kill. The creatures are 
 way to smart and exaggerated. You can fly a UFO, what are the odds. It needs a turtional video. 
 Bettwe graphics and get the game a new style. it should be a creator for veichles and creatures 
 instead of what it is!. I say get sumtin else instead of this game. and jeez i hate the charecter 
 minumin thing. sorry about my spelling. Some things are dumb because if you kill all the creatures 
 they come back! it's weird and why can't the creature be a marine dude you should have a choice. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: legogamesrule
Rating: 7
Date: Oct 9, 2008 12:03 pm PT
Review:  This game is brilliant, the clever play on the 3D world with 2D characters is brilliant and portrays 
 the whole cartoony feel it is going for.
  
  No slow down, decent story with a brilliant creature editor!
  
  many many many different possibilites 
 of what you can do in this game with kool magic powers and a very unique way of how you gain health 
 back.
  
  Depending on the mouth you choose you can either be Omnivore, Carnivore or Herbivore and if you 
 eat the wrong type of food it takes off health or puts you to sleep etc.
  
  Very unique and very good game. The stats also effect how like an eater you are (the lighter eater 
 the more health you gain when eating a food item - or the more energy depending
  
  This game well deserves 5 stars just for the sheer scale of the editing you can do never mind how 
 fun playing the actual story is!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Hoano
Rating: 2
Date: Oct 8, 2008 3:11 pm PT
Review:  This game sucks DO NOT BUY THIS TERRIBLE GAME!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!! It is a rip-off it is not 
 that fun anyway and is easily beaten. You play this game for a bout 4 hours and then you get bored. 
 If you want to waste money buy this game. IT IS NOTHING LIKE SPORE. I wasted time i could be playing 
 other games that are cool. I advise that if you like spore get spore for anything BUT THE  
 !!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!! Listen to  DO NOT GET IT EVEN IF IT 
 LOOKS COOL    OK    DDDDOOOONN"TTTT BBBBBBUUUUUYYYY TTTTTHHHIIIISSS  
 Please this review is not written to discourage you do not feel bad if you just got the game. BLAME 
 THE IDIOTS WHO CREATED SUCH A BAD GAME FOR  
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mull20641
Rating: 6.5
Date: Sep 19, 2008 3:48 pm PT
Review:  Spore is like a lot of games of played before. The story starts, someone kills your friends at 
 birth and you go on a mystical adventure to repay the debt. It's a tired concept that has been 
 played too many times. The difference is that instead of some medievil magical character on a quest 
 you're an alien tring to stop an evil alien who's infecting people.
  
  The presentation of this game is pretty top knotch. There are a total of six planets in the spore 
 galaxy each of which has its own climate and spore creatures. Unlike most of the PC spore games 
 you can only control one character (which is annoying) . However, you do get hundreds of different 
 parts and you can change virtually any aspect of your creature whether its legs, arms, eyes, tail, 
 body or even fins. The wide range of controls makes it easy to create your very own one-of-a-kind 
 creature. Some parts even have abilities or bio-powers. You can use these for your advantage.
  
  The bottom line is Spore Creatures is just an overused concept with a twist. Its still worth 
 playing though. :)
  
  
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: waZelda
Rating: 5
Date: Sep 19, 2008 12:12 am PT
Review:  The concept was exciting and different. You evolve and edit a creature and it seemed to give a 
 new and fresh experience. Well I guess it was a new experience, but so would it be to eat a newspaper. 
 Spore don't have the gameplay to make a good game out of a good concept.
  
  Editing the monsters itself is the good part about the gameplay. You can change the form of your 
 creature, what legs, arms, tail etc. it has and also there is some strategy because each body part 
 has some stats with it. By earning intelligence points and leveling up you can put on bigger body 
 parts. You can try to make you creature look cool, but chances are you will have to think more 
 of your stats and probably give it to sets of arms and legs and make it look rather freaky. If 
 this had been a bigger part of the gameplay, like if you had a dozen different creatures, the game 
 would have been better.
  
  The rest of the game is nothing close to good. The story is lame and the missions are neither challenging 
 nor fun. Combat does nothing else than replace button mashing with stylus slicing and have little 
 or no strategy to it. Petting with new creatures isn't that great either. Most annoyingly is the 
 camera angle, which is set too close, so I prefer to look at the map when I move. Also you need 
 to walk in a big circle to turn the camera to look behind you.
  
  The graphics could have been better. A 2D creature in 3D world worked well with Paper Mario, but 
 it doesn't work in this game. The graphics aren't especially artistic either. And the music... 
 My advice is to just turn it of.
  
  Throughout the game, the motivation to continue playing is pretty little, and I'm pretty sure I 
 will never pick the game up again. In a month or so, I'm not even sure I will remember it at all. 
 So it isn't a game worth buying if you fancy good gameplay, but I guess for some, the creature 
 editing is enough to make them enjoy the game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: PaleShadow
Rating: 7.5
Date: Sep 18, 2008 9:47 pm PT
Review:  I knew what to expect when I booted-up Spore Creatures in my DS, which was; customisable monsters 
 and a truck-load of near coma-inducing cuteness.
  
  The game delivers both, and quite better than I expected too.
  
  Creature creation is simple 
 to do; just drag-and-drop various limbs, eyes, faces, bits and bobs (which each have different 
 attributes to offer, like higher defense and attack or an ability) onto your selected main body 
 and the pieces mould into place, then you get to go about selecting your beast's colour scheme 
 and away you go. Everything you make will be cute. Even if you were trying to make it ugly. 
  If I didn't know Maxis created the game, I would think it came from Japan.
  Maybe it's just my 
 anime-infected brain causing me to think that anything cuter than Ryuk from Death Note is sweet 
 like fairyfloss, but it seems like you could stick eyes on a creature's rear and have arms sticking 
 out of its eye sockets and it will still chatter and blink sweetly like some genetic experiment 
 at the Sanrio factory gone wrong.
  
  I like cute though... so don't mind me. =^_^= 
  
  Moving on...
  
  Moving your creature about the world is easy, just drag your stylus in the 
 direction you want to go. The camera leaves more to be desired though... generally it works well, 
 but it often tends to swerve this way and that as you walk about (leading me to walk my creature 
 on something that killed him more than once) and often gets snagged on trees and other terrain 
 and objects. 
  
  You objective in the game is to travel across numerous worlds in search of a spaceship that captured 
 your creature's friend, and in the process talking to and befriending other native creatures by 
 dancing with them (in a rhythm-based little minigame that seems to get repetitive quickly) or granting 
 favours to them... which could be anything from killing another creature for land to feeding them. 
 In return, they will give you parts to build your creature (which will help you progress in the 
 game too) and point you in the direction on the spaceship you're chasing.
  
  Battles with other creatures begin when you tap on another creature and choose to attack them, 
 or they just attack you. A ring will emerge from the ground to block you in, and will not end until 
 you kill the opposing creature or run away.
  Attacking in a battle is a simple matter of slashing your stylus across your enemy, and sometimes 
 tapping a button to use a special ability (if you have one) . I didn't have too much trouble attacking, 
 but sometimes it feels like I could cut a hole in my DS screen with the stylus and still not actually 
 cause any damage to the enemy...
  
  Overall, Spore Creatures has its flaws, but it's still a fun and quite addictive game for all ages 
 to play.
  
  Now I just want to play the true Spore, for the PC. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kirbybunny
Rating: 9.5
Date: Sep 10, 2008 8:31 am PT
Review:  I think the game speak for itself when you get the game, it shows itself what a creator type game 
 can be. Imagining always saying "I want to create the monsters not just the people." well this 
 game makes your creative mind not go to waste,"unless you want it to and then find out how much 
 more you want to play it." Its your creature world build by your hands (or whatever game system 
 your playing) that gives you your ability. Why should I; because its a must for those ready to 
 go forth and create. it may not be a RPG maker (don't put the two together. EVER! there is a whole 
 difference between them. this is a whole new experience based on a world you create for creatures 
 only.) your not just creating a lot of monsters for your reasons, your making them because you 
 can and will no matter what the game throws at you: go for it! go! go! go! 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
