-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Sprung
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/ds/adventure/crush/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 Good-looking characters.
 Fun writing.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 Gameplay too repetitious.
 Animations are limited.
 Limited play time.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Dec 14, 2004
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 6
Critic Score: 4.8, 35 Review (s)
User Score: 6.1, 583 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Ubisoft
Genre: Adventure
Date: Dec 8, 2004
ESRB: Teen

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Sprung's willingness to tread some risqu ground, which most games tend to sidestep, is definitely 
 intriguing, but your actual participation in the game feels kind of limited. 

  Though the dating simulation genre has enjoyed success for years in Japan, romance and gaming have 
 remained fairly mutually exclusive in the United States. There seems to be a trend emerging, though, 
 and Ubisoft's Sprung is right on the forefront of it. Despite being fairly reminiscent of the text-based 
 PC adventures of yore, there's really not much quite like Sprung on the market. Yet, despite some 
 pretty good writing, catchy music, and nicely drawn 2D art, the experience suffers because of repetitive 
 and oft-frustrating gameplay.  

          Get ready for some T-rated romantic escapades.     

  Sprung isn't really a dating simulation 
 in the strictest sense, so it could be more aptly described as a romantic adventure. You can play 
 as either Brett or Becky, two well-toned, good-looking young adults who are each looking for love 
 while vacationing at a fairly upscale ski resort town. Their escapades will take place all over 
 town, including at the ski lodge, in a gondola, at a popular nightclub, and, of course, in a hot 
 tub. The writing in Sprung is actually one of the strongest points of the game, and despite some 
 occasional corniness and a few awkward turns, the dialogue is pretty good, which gives you a good 
 sense of each of the characters, though many of them rely on cookie-cutter stereotypes. The game 
 gives off a real  Dawson's Creek  kind of vibe, which shouldn't surprise anyone, especially considering 
 that the story was crafted by one of the writers on the pretty-young-things TV drama  North Shore 
 . If you don't have the stomach for this kind of melodrama, Sprung won't have much appeal for you. 

  Each character has his or her own story, and these stories are broken up into series of scenes. 
 These scenes vary in length and complexity, but for the most part, they boil down to engaging in 
 conversation (by way of a standard dialogue tree) and subsequently steering the conversation toward 
 a specific outcome, which usually involves getting involved with a member of the opposite sex, 
 foiling another character's plans, or playing matchmaker for other characters. The interface is 
 simple, so you'll see your character's picture on the lower screen, and the person you're chatting 
 with will appear on the top screen. The game has touch-screen support for all the menu options, 
 but it's just a lot easier to play the game with the D pad and the buttons.  

  The scenarios have a tendency to feel kind of disjointed when you go from one to the next, but 
 the fundamental problem with Sprung is its trial-and-error gameplay. With a few exceptions, there 
 is generally only one acceptable outcome for a scenario, though there are usually several paths 
 along the dialogue tree that you can take to get there. Making the wrong choice can end the scene 
 instantly, and the right choice is rarely very intuitive, though the game tends to make the least 
 likely choice the correct one. Aside from a really long streak of good luck, you'll inevitably 
 have to replay many scenes over and over again before you pick just the right dialogue path. Consequently, 
 this grind sucks the fun out of what is otherwise a fairly whimsical experience. To the game's 
 credit, there are a few scenes that both require some actual deductive reasoning and present some 
 pretty good challenges, though you'll feel like you're being pushed down a very narrow path, with 
 no real control over the proceedings. There are 50 different scenes between Brett and Becky, and 
 the amount of time it takes you to get through the game can vary wildly depending, basically, on 
 how lucky you get. Taking the straightest path through some scenes can take fewer than a minute, 
 while it's possible to get stuck on one of the more complex scenes for a good half hour.  

          By the end of the game, you'll hook up with a wide cross section of singles on Snowbird 
 Mountain.     

  Though it doesn't really push the technical capabilities of the DS, Sprung does have a fairly distinct 
 look to it, and it uses 2D sprites to represent the characters. The game's European's roots are 
 fairly apparent in the art style, which is reminiscent of a French comic book. The characters look 
 appropriately glossy and hip, and even the "dirty hippy" character is attractive, well dressed, 
 and well groomed. Each character has a handful of emotive animations, which themselves are fairly 
 smooth and effective, but because of their limited numbers, these animations repeat fairly often, 
 and they don't always match the tone of the dialogue they accompany. With the dialogue written 
 in text, the game's soundtrack fills in the void and actually does a pretty good job of it. Each 
 location has a unique tune, so a crunky hip-hop beat plays when you're in the club, for example. 
 Furthermore, there's some situation-specific music as well. The best music in the game, though, 
 is the theme that plays when you've successfully completed a scene, because it has an infectiously 
 gaudy, Euro-dance synth line that's too hummable for its own good.  

  Sprung is an interesting experiment, and as the second DS game from Ubisoft, it's a pretty bold 
 move by the French publisher. Its willingness to tread some risqu ground, which most games 
 tend to sidestep, is definitely intriguing, but your actual participation in the game feels kind 
 of limited, and the repetition inherent to its gameplay makes Sprung even harder to recommend. 
     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (20 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: pigilikepoe
Rating: 5
Date: Apr 13, 2008 5:53 am PT
Review:  Sprung has turned out to be the worst game i've bought on the DS. At first it seems like a fun 
 game but quickly gets un-enjoyable. The first mission of the game acts out as a tutorial on how 
 to play. At least for the first few missions. The game actually does a good job of teaching the 
 player how the game is played. Such as acting polite and avoiding conflicts. After a while the 
 game becomes very hard and unpredictable. In later stages you will often find that what you learned 
 in the tutorial stage won't help you at all. Common sense no longer exist after the 4th mission. 
 Picking the most unrealistic response to a question will actually be the correct response. Picking 
 a response that makes sense will get you a game over. After failing a mission about half a dozen 
 times the game really shows how boring and annoying it can be. But if you like this kind of stuff 
 then go ahead and buy it. At least its one less copy taking space on the used games shelf. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ninjagaijin10k
Rating: 4.9
Date: Apr 21, 2007 4:36 am PT
Review:  The entire premise of this game should have been enough to make me run as far away as possible. 
 Somebody recommended it to me though as a fun little mini-game diversion though.
  
  Wow, how wrong can someone be?
  
  This isn't what I would call a mini-game game. I wouldn't 
 even call it an adventure game. It is all about dialog and plot. You really don't DO anything in 
 the game but talk to people and move the story along.
  
  It's big lie is the dating sim tag though. Supposedly your choices really effect the results. It's 
 not just an adventure game because who you hook up with depends on what you decide. That's just 
 dead wrong. Yeah, you have choices, and there are minor effects, but it's all insulated by the 
 modular mission based nature of the game.
  
  You don't get to choose who to hook up with. You don't really get to choose who your friends hook 
 up with. You are told hook your friend up with this person . Then, depending on the level of success 
 or failure of that, there are repercussions. But the same overall objectives are there.
  
  There are five girls, but there really isn't any choice. You have to follow the same path. The 
 big choice doesn't even come until the end. Two of the five aren't even choices, and one of those 
 was my favorite. I even told the stupid game she was my favorite in a previous mission. No go, 
 she can't go on the cruise with you. The hippie chick is a no go too.
  
  The leftovers are the man hating she-witch, the obnoxious unrealistically jack-of-all-trades nerd, 
 and the insipid blond you're supposed to like.
  
  Now, it would be lame of me to rant about the actual choices here. I got what I paid for. The game 
 sucks, and I have to eat my own dung here. My gripe is in the gameplay and story design itself. 
 You don't really HAVE any choice. If this is a dating sim, then make it a dating sim. If it's not, 
 then give me more meat to the plot than THIS tripe.
  
  The unlockables create a small obsessive desire to catch em all , but the dialogs all end up going 
 basically the same no matter what you do, so there isn't any plot incentive, and despite the supposedly 
 racy dialog, there wasn't really anything there to either really tantalize, or give you a big guilty 
 laugh. The humour was lame.
  
  Don't waste your money. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: schwagnah
Rating: 5.2
Date: Jul 9, 2006 3:03 am PT
Review:  The Sims was a revolution in online gaming, bringing on a flurry of expansions and even a sequel. 
 Your goal was to move, meet people, and date. In Sprung, you don t have that freedom to meet who 
 you want and do what you please, but the game is still a dating game. Sprung, unfortunately, is 
 not a dating sim, but rather, a Dating Adventure. 
  
  Gameplay
  In Sprung, you can play as either the charming pretty boy, Brett, or as the beautiful, but shyish 
 chick, Becky. When you play as Brett, your overall goal is to get together with Becky at the end 
 of your ski-trip. You went on a ski-trip with your friends and now its time for seduction, or anything 
 to get Becky (your life-long friend) to go out with you. As Becky you go away with your friends 
 to escape your old boyfriend. You will mingle with many guys until you find the right one for you. 
 
  
  In the game, you can not choose your own ending, which is sad, considering it s a dating game. 
 The end result will always be the same for either character, despite what words or conversations 
 you use in the game. This is very unfortunate, since the game itself is very short. 
  
  The game is a series of missions that deal with you having to guess what the other sex is thinking, 
 and responding correctly to get whatever you need to move farther in the game. Since your phrases 
 and word choices are given to you in a series of between two and six, you have many choices to 
 choose from; however, almost all of them lead to dead ends and mission failures. This is really 
 frustrating, since it is really hard to understand what a digitally made character is thinking 
 or wanting. You will usually end up trying a mission at least five times before moving on to the 
 next. 
  
  Despite this, the dialogue that appears as a result of some of the dating conversations that you 
 have can be outright hilarious. This is definitely a plus, but it is not really an extra feature. 
 Several items are also hilarious. Items like, Amorous Action, Hot Sauce, and there is some really 
 zesty cologne that can be used as well, are all hilariously used in the game. 
  
  The items that you acquire can be used to help you complete missions, or just for comic relief. 
 And the items are acquired by seducing certain people, or by using sneaky actions. 
  
  By beating portions of the game, UbiSoft has provided some nice artwork and drawings as extras. 
 While these aren t amazing, they still show off some really impressive talent in the visual department. 
 
  
  Graphics
  Visually, the game is a treat. Nothing in the game is three-dimensional, but there is really no 
 need to have this game in 3-D. The cartoon art style works really well for the game s story and 
 play. The art-work that gets shown off in the galleries and in the game is simply astounding. Simple, 
 but bright colors make the game vibrant and exciting to watch. 
  
  Visually, the sad thing about the game is the horribly large lack of animation. There is a bit 
 of facial differences when you choose a different option in your dialogue box, but there is no 
 actual talking, or body movements. No characters move, or do anything interesting for that matter. 
 They lean sometimes, smile, frown, look sexy, and grin, but they never usually do anything that 
 involves exercise. Maybe it is because all of the missions usually involve sitting down and talking, 
 but maybe Ubi was just lazy and left out walking missions. 
  
  Okay, the game is great to look at, but it is kind of distressing that UbiSoft could not put in 
 at least a little bit of animation. 
  
  Sound
  Standard. You have some cool music to go with each area or setting in the game that really set 
 the mood for the situation and locale, but that s about it. There is absolutely no voice work and 
 absolutely no background sound, except for nightclub chatter and the occasional bird in the park 
 locale. The music that is present, is pretty good at doing what it does best, getting you in the 
 mood . 
  
  The lack of other sounds and the lack of any voice work at all really make this game even more 
 sad than it already is. For a game that has impressive character design and beautiful color, it 
 has nothing much else going for it except for the really good laughs (occasionally) , and the good 
 music. 
  
  Replay Value
  To finish each character once, it should take less than 10 hours total. Which is simply too short. 
 Most of the hours spent is spent frustratingly trying to choose the right choice in dialogue. And 
 if you beat the game twice, you don t get any extra incentive, so I see no reason to play the game 
 again and again. 
  
  Conclusion
  Sprung is a funny dating adventure that might tickle your fancy if you always wanted to see a funnier 
 version of Dawson s Creek take place at Ski Resort. It s got great visual things going for it, 
 and good music to boot, but nothing else helps boost this game to something you would want to play 
 over and over. I mean, playing the game is absolutely frustrating, especially for opposite sex 
 illiterate people like me. I d say you can enjoy a good laugh here and there, and you might have 
 a good chat about this with your friend, but you ll most likely forget about this game after a 
 couple of weeks. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: x_Chezzy_x
Rating: 6.3
Date: Jul 6, 2006 11:25 am PT
Review:  In this cartoon/anime-ish dating sim, you can play as either Becky or Brett as they try to win 
 the affection of others, screw up relationships, get advice, prepare for dates, and many other 
 kinds of scenarios at a ski lodge. This is a dialogue-driven game with humor that will either win 
 you over with its crude wit, or lose you... some might even feel offended by it. The bottom screen 
 shows your main character, while the top screen displays the character you're talking to. Conversations 
 are handled between two characters using a multiple-choice menu, which allows you to select what 
 you want to say using the d-pad or touching what you want to say. Each dialogue action will either 
 benefit or hurt your character while completing the task, so you have to choose wisely in order 
 to make it through to the end of the scenario. Each level has a set objective to follow, but there 
 are various story arcs that can be taken, depending on what dialogue trees you use during the scenario. 
 
  
  Many times, your character will also strike an animation pose that reflects his/her mood that tells 
 you how he/she will say the dialogue that you choose. This is a nice touch that helps you determine 
 what is best to say, in the right situation, while also sometimes serving as icing on the cake 
 for the humorous lines your character says. The animations of both on-screen characters have a 
 great range, including happiness, sadness, anger, jealousy, surprise, and many more. This attention 
 to character detail makes up for the lack of spoken dialogue. 
  
  The script for this game, from a comedic stance, is well-written, but the humor will only appeal 
 to some people. I found myself laughing a lot, sometimes. I know that some people will find the 
 dialogue to be offensive or not funny at all. It ultimately depends on your sense of humor. Some 
 people will be entertained, while others won't. 
  
  The soundtrack usually fits the area that you character is in. In the club, there will be a techno 
 track, out in the forest there will be a warming tune. A few of the songs got on my nerves after 
 listening to them a few times, but from an overall perspective the music is nice for mixing well 
 with wherever your character is. 
  
  One of my biggest problems with this game is the fact that you can either start a brand new game 
 or continue a game where you left off last time, but you cannot choose a certain level. This can 
 anger a lot of people, as they will have to start over and try skimming past some levels in order 
 to get to a certain part that they want to go over again. 
  
  Another problem I had was with the difficulty curve. The game has no sense of balance, which means 
 it won't start easy and get progressively hard with each passing level. One time you can be playing 
 an easy scenario, while the next one might ask you to pick a perfect dialogue tree, forcing you 
 to remember lines that you are required to say in order to pass it. The game keeps switching from 
 easy to hard randomly, which can be frustrating. 
  
  There is a lot to do in this game, if you become occupied. Lots of dialogue choices help to keep 
 the game fresh, but there are also items you collect depending on your performance in each level 
 that add even more dialogue. There are 100 items you can collect, each of which provide various 
 results when you use them in certain scenarios. There are 52 art pieces you can get for ending 
 scenarios in certain ways. Some of the dialogue that you choose will also open up bonus stages 
 in the game, after completing a level. Even though both Brett and Becky's games are short, there 
 is a fair amount of replay value and things to unlock, for the completist gamers. There are various 
 story arcs that change the status of your character depending on the dialogue tree you choose, 
 which helps the game feel fresh if you play the game under a different story arc. 
  
  In some ways, Sprung feels rushed, but there are many things to appreciate in this game. I paid 
 $20 for it. I was entertained by the humor and found myself trying to unlock all the items and 
 art pieces after beating both quests. Outside of a few nagging problems and a sense of humor that 
 will amuse some people but bore others, I found Sprung to be worth my money. I know this game won't 
 appeal to everybody, but you might want to look into it if you find it at a bargain price.
  
  Man, this was the longest review I've written so far. My fingers... so numb... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: blue_man
Rating: 8.4
Date: Jun 14, 2006 10:49 am PT
Review:  Game play 8/10 
  
  The game play is more complicated than it looks. It's not just pick a line and get lucky. You have 
 to do much more than that, you have to see what the person talking to you is saying. Then make 
 a decision what you should reply with. If you say it wrong you could get game over. Also when you 
 say the wrong things the characters change their facial expressions. This is why this game may 
 help you in real life, it serves as a good practice. Basically the controls are extremely basic 
 and not all special. To pick a line, use up and down to select, then press B to confirm your action. 
 Alternatively just touch it with the touch screen. Its so very simple. As you play through the 
 stages you pick up special items, these come in handy. At the end of a stage there is a picture 
 to show what basically happened; more than one different one can be got in one stage. Once you 
 have got it you can collect them. 
  
  Graphics 9/10 
  
  I really like these graphics, they are just like a cartoon off the television, they suit so well. 
 The reasons being you can see the people bright and colourful. There isn't particularly much action 
 in the game so they don't really have to show off any movement, but these graphics look so good 
 with the characters facial expressions. Another thing about the graphics is the backgrounds are 
 amazing they are still so very detailed. 
  
  Sound 9/10 
  
  Some of the sounds in the different places suit the surroundings. Like in a nature place you have 
 some sweet melodies and in a night club you have a funky tune. Sadly the characters say nothing 
 out loud, but when you fail a mission you hear the crowd go **** 
  
  Storyline 9/10 
  
  Actually I like the story line. It's mainly about love and friendship. The two main characters, 
 Brett and Becky are in love with each other, but don't want to say because they have been best 
 friends for so long, and it could wreck their friendship. Those are not the only dates that happen 
 though. Brett and Becky do have friends. 
  
  Replayability 10/10 
  
  They is so much to do. Sometimes you may miss something in a level, so you have to do it again. 
 You must pickup up all the items and artwork. This will require you to play through both Brett 
 and Becky's stories multiple times to finish. Even then you'll want to do it again.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: amkalfus
Rating: 4.1
Date: Jun 7, 2006 2:29 pm PT
Review:  Sprung had an interesting premise: you are to pick either a male or female, and you try to hook 
 up with the opposite sex during a vacation to some mountain with your friends. At first, this game 
 seems really cool and different, but you soon find out that it is just annoying!
  
  First off, it does have some really good looking graphics, which are just drawn backgrounds and 
 charcters (with some great facial expressions) , and the first couple of levels are interesting, 
 because you basically get to pick which girl you want to try and hook up with as well learn the 
 ropes of the game and trying to hook up with the opposite sex. For completing various tasks (which 
 require you to ask the right questions and answer the right way) you get pictures of what's happening 
 as well as items to update your collection until you get 100%. For awhile, this is fun, but it 
 turns into a trial and error game and a game of memory, where you have to ask the right sequence 
 of questions in the right order to get the right answer and tell the girls in a specific order 
 what you know. It becomes frustrating, difficult, and boring quickly.
  
  At first, I loved this game, but now I loathe it. I returned it and am glad I did, for there was 
 nothing in it at all. This dating sims seems cool, but Sprung could have been way better... too 
 bad! I really don't recommend this game to anyone... I don't know anyone who would enjoy it, except 
 maybe as a rental for someone looking for some risque dialogue or something though, other than 
 that, stay away! It has mediocre sound, and almost no real interaction beyond picking the phrases 
 to say next. This is just downright a bad game! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sjesseph
Rating: 7.2
Date: Mar 14, 2006 10:05 pm PT
Review:  Ok... I bought this game and it was pretty good. You have to talk to a lot people and find love 
 at a ski resort. I played as the girl and have already finishes it but plan to do it as the guy 
 as well. The graphics are good and the game play was pretty good too if you like to read! You are 
 reading and picking the phrases you want to say through the whole game. This game is rated teen 
 but I would have to say older teens maybe. I have a 16 year old son and not so sure I would want 
 him to play this game do to the cussing and some of the slang used. I paid $20.00 for this game 
 and it was worth it. Would be better if you could find it used which the game play is a little 
 short and easy to finish so I would think used ones would be easy to find. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: VFG
Rating: 3.8
Date: Feb 14, 2006 12:20 pm PT
Review:  When I heard about Sprung I got rather excited, it's not often we get games like this in the U. S. 
 But maybe that's for a good reason if all dating sims are like Sprung.
  The game lets you choose at its strt whether you want to play as male or female (keep in mind I 
 only played the guys side) . The object is to meet people and get them to like you, bottom line. 
 During missions you have conversations with people, you select how to respond using either the 
 DS controls or the stylus.
  You'll often juggle several scenarios at once to try and keep everybody happy. But there's the 
 huge downfall of this game, there is no player control, the game is extremely linear and doesn't 
 give you any freedom as the player. In most missions you can only get through them one way, always 
 with the same outcome. And then, if you select the wrong response you'll end up with a "GAME OVER" 
 screen.
  And what makes them very annoying is that many times what you think would be the best awnser is 
 actually the worst, and you can offend NPC's very easily. Often you'll get stuck with a selection 
 of responses, and all of them are bad or all of them seem like something good to say. You'll come 
 to count on that the longer a mission is the more times you'll repeat it. 
  It's very unfortunate, the graphics and character animations are done very well but there is no 
 substance to the gameplay. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mortal1012002
Rating: 8.8
Date: Jan 28, 2006 9:12 am PT
Review:  
  This is a pretty good game actually, I wasn't expecting to like it as much as I did... but hey, 
 I did
  I do know that the game could never appeal to everyone, not by a long shot, but I like these
 
  type of games, so I fell in love with it in a heart beat. Now to split up the review:
  
  Graphics- 9/10 - The graphics for a text adventure game is fantastic, the animations though
  
 limited do the game great justice, I love looking at the graphics on this game, I really do.
  
  Sound- 5/10 - The sound, kind of sucks, I mean very repetitive music and hardly any sfx, but
 
  hey, great victory song.
  
  Story- 8/10 - The story is pretty good, but you'll have to play for yourself to get the full
 
  idea of it. By the way, there are two, Brett and Becky, I like both of the characters story.
 
  
  Game play- 9/10 - I had to take a point away from this section, the game play (text conversation
 
  choosing) is great, but sometimes the scenes in the game take some... well, guess work. Not a
 
  good thing for a game like this. However most of Brett and Becky's scenes are puzzles, so 
  it's still great game play. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: brandyinindiana
Rating: 6
Date: Jan 23, 2006 9:31 am PT
Review:  Welcome to the world of Becky and Brett, two gorgeous, and I use that term loosely, 20-somethings 
 looking for the perfect love connection at the hottest ski lodge around. Choose to be either Brett 
 or Becky and embark on one of two very different stories. While Becky, you play the cutsie girl 
 trying to find a rebound love after a confrontation with your boyfriend ends badly. With Brett 
 on the other hand, you realize within the first 30 seconds that you are deeply in love with Becky 
 and must now find a way to let her know it without ruining everything in the process.
  
  You basically become these characters, although your choices for their actions have little or no 
 consequences on the plot of the game. As the game begins, you come to understand that this is more 
 of a choose your own adventure novel than a game. You are given choices of phrases that you would 
 like your character to say. You hear a response, choose another phrase, rinse and repeat. While 
 each mission does have an overall goal (find a date, get him to kiss you, tell her you love her, 
 etc.) , theres rarely more than one way to successfully complete each one  which means that you 
 will be retryinga lot.
  
  While the overall premise seems like something comparable to the Sims franchise, the gameplay itself 
 leaves much to be desired. With a wide array of items ranging from high heels and makeup all the 
 way to joke and horoscope novels, Sprung does try to liven things up a bit. However, the title 
 is missing one very important detail - Action. Even with the large selection of items, Sprung doesnt 
 really take advantage of your inventory. Sure, items come into play sometimes, in shopping scenes 
 and whatnot, but really, they are just filler  placed in the game to hopefully detract from the 
 lack of action whatsoever present in the title. And no, Im not talking about that type of action. 
 Get your heads out of the gutter people.
  
  The graphics are fine, but sickeningly repetitive. You can choose from basically four or five different 
 facial expressions, which while a nice idea dont affect the gameplay at all. Well, unless you 
 count the stupid hypnotizing mission, which is easy enough to pass, so my point still stands. The 
 stylus can be used, but really, its much quicker just to hit the A button repeatedly. Moving 
 on to sound, I suppose one could say that it was goodin an elevator music sort of way. Personally, 
 I enjoyed it more with the sound down  especially when you have to start a scene over for the 
 20th time.
  
  Overall, Sprung is a game in a class all its own  but thats really not a good thing. I did like 
 certain aspects of the story, and on the whole, I am pretty torn about what score to give this 
 title. Those who love action and hate reading will despise Sprung, while those that like more of 
 a story rather than senseless murder and violence might love it. Sprung gets its inspiration from 
 the text adventure days of the past, and while not extremely thrilling, it does make for nice game 
 to play while on a tripLike a trip to the store for instance, where you can buy a better game. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ignoman
Rating: 4.2
Date: Jul 24, 2007 10:12 pm PT
Review:  I laughed when I saw this game... I'll admit, I've played games of this type before, partly because 
 they're so hilarious. Sprung is hilarious too, but even when held to the pathetic standards of 
 the dating sim genre this game isn't perfect.
  
  For a dating sim, this game is pretty... the characters are sharp and animated, which is a big 
 step above the norm of still-images. The sound is decent too, as good as most other things on DS 
 anyway.
  
  The gameplay at its roots is the same as any other dating sim... they say something, you get 3 
 choices, they respond, you get three choices, etc. Unfortunetly, the game ends up being difficult 
 and very linear... you have to try the same scenes over and over again, and if you don't pick the 
 exact correct sequence you simply fail and have to start the scene over. It's almost as if you're 
 not really playing... there are only a few times where you're actions actually determine the outcome, 
 which is kindof lame. The tagline where everyone scores should read where everyone scores the exact 
 same way, through trial and error . That's what really keeps this game from being interesting.
 
  
  The Verdict:
  
  If you're like me, and you're pathetic enough to have played a dating sim before, this game will 
 prove to be an interesting trip down memory lane. The game isn't really that great, even for a 
 dating sim, so if you really want to... go ahead and give it a try. Just wait a month or two and 
 it'll be in the bargain bin. Other than that, I really can't recommend this game to anyone... because 
 it kinda sucks. There are plenty of other DS games that are worth your time, get those instead. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ZenOfThunder
Rating: 5.3
Date: Dec 29, 2005 9:21 pm PT
Review:  When the DS came out, they're weren't many games availible for it. So I picked this up after I 
 finished up Mario 64 DS and WarioWare. Boy... was I let down.
  
  You play as either a boy names Brett or a girl named Becky. Both have crushes on each other, but 
 are too chicken to admit it. So what do they do? They go out with every other girl/guy on the island 
 were they are staying with their friends. Makes sense? Nope. But it's funny, and that's what makes 
 up for it.
  
  There's a great plot and some great writing. That is the only strong point here. There are always 
 two characters on screen at once. They both talk with each other. Chose your response carefully. 
 Even if you don't you'll get a funny game over (not nessacarily, you can fix your mistakes sometimes) . 
 
  
  The stills of the character get repetitive however, and after the first few level it becomes extremely 
 difficult. The music also gets on your nerves, as it cycles through the same music over and over.
 
  
  Sprung is one of those games you dream of finding in the bargain bin, offering mild entertainmeant 
 and cheap laughs. If you really need a game like this now, try Phoenix Wright, and if you want 
 something lovey-dovey, try Feel the Magic. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: NintendoDSChik2
Rating: 6.8
Date: Aug 25, 2006 9:36 pm PT
Review:  The good. The graphics are sharp and clear. Good price. The gameplay is alright while it lasts. 
 You can play as either Becky or Brett. Clever, one-liners.
  
  The bad. Characters face expressions sometimes don't match what they're saying and it can be very 
 misleading. The music is very repetitive and after a while it becomes annoying.
  
  Also some scenes are really difficult to pass. Sometimes if you say one wrong thing it's the difference 
 between passing that level and failing. It becomes annoying when you have to refer to a walk-through 
 so often.
  
  It feels limited as to what your character can do, other than choose which line they're going to 
 say. Me= 6.8 Fair Gamespot= 6.0 Fair 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sillygostly
Rating: 6.1
Date: Dec 28, 2005 2:09 pm PT
Review:  To say the least, Sprung is basically a simple dating game for the Nintendo DS reminiscent of those 
 from the 90s, however this game isn't nearly as saucy, or fun.
  
  Sure, the game is addictive, although it's basically a string of conversations between your character 
 (Brett or Becky) , and your primary goal is to score (bad pun :-p) . That's all there is to it.
 
  
  A lot of the time, the conversations require guesswork, and at times, I've taken almost (or over) 
 an hour to progress through to the next mission. And as such the game gets SO FRUSTRATING, however 
 for some reason, the game's charm draws you in.
  
  The dialogue is very well written, and is at times witty. However you can't hear the dialogue being 
 spoken at all as there is virtually no sound in this game apart from the background music, which 
 all have a steady rhythmic beat, and sound nice on the handheld system.
  
  Gameplay - Gameplay? The so-called game is basically a string of dialogue. That's it basically.
 
  
  Graphics - The graphics are nice as the characters are well animated and have an anime feel to 
 them. However the animations get a tad repetitive.
  
  Sound - The music is fine, and sounds good on the handheld. But it's nothing to go nuts about.
 
  
  Value - You get two sets of missions which'll take you quite a while to complete however you could 
 get much more for your dollar. I only purchased this game because it was REALLY cheap.
  
  Tilt - I wouldn't say the replay value of this game is too high, but if you play your cards right, 
 this is a really relaxing game to just chill out and play. :-)
  
  Sprung is an interesting little title for the Nintendo DS, and I would only recommend it if you 
 can pick it up real cheap. Otherwise, steer clear of it. It's just not worth paying a premium for. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Cool_Grant
Rating: 6.2
Date: Nov 13, 2005 1:23 pm PT
Review:  What can i say about Sprung? Its not a game as much as it is a dating sim. There isn't much you 
 can do except fo talk to people and get the objectives done. 
  The graphics are good. There are some nice detailed pictures of the characters, but they don't 
 do much except for being mad, happy, embarressed, and sexy. 
  The gameplay is exactly what you would expect. You can either click on what you would say, or use 
 the D-Pad, nothing else....
  The sound is very good. There is a lot of music to listen too. Every song is with a location.
 
  The only problem is once you finish, there isn't anything else to do, but listen to songs, and 
 look at pictures. Over all its just an ordinary sim game thats just OK.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Totodile
Rating: 1
Date: Oct 20, 2005 11:19 pm PT
Review:  When I got this game, I was expecting it to be a way better type of Pictochat.
  I was oh so wrong.
  It's graphics are very poor, the items you collect have no use and are very 
 lame and boring. I shouldn't even be calling this a game. You can't win, there's no incentive and 
 it's just so boring. It is the worst game I have ever experienced in my whole life. Please take 
 my advice and not buy this thing. Not game. Thing. I am sure it will dissapoint you. Just stick 
 with the inbuilt and free Pictochat. Whoever made this should be ashamed of themselves.
  They have given a bad name for a great handheld. No one even wanted to buy it off me so I had to 
 smash it and it's case with a sledgehammer. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: armyman_22
Rating: 6.2
Date: Oct 10, 2005 11:22 pm PT
Review:  A very nice Idea and well executed, but it hits some bumps in the road that could have made it 
 better. Sprung is a nice title with good twist and turns. Its sexy, fun, and entertaining, but 
 things go from good to bad too quick.
  
  First off at a quick glance things look great. The animations are smooth, eye catching, and colorful. 
 Thats where things stop- The animations are repetitve, awkward and missleading sometimes. Your 
 suppose to read the characters body language and give answers this doesnt help when the people 
 your talking to look happy and then you respond and they get mad. 
  Graphics solid at best.
  
  The sound is cool and often matches whats going on but is not varied 
 or is not catchy for that matter well except for when you clear a level.
  
  Speaking of clearing levels there is a satisfying feeling when you pass a scene, but to get to 
 the end sometimes takes forever. The poin of the game seduce, fool, insult, and have fun with the 
 opposite sex. Things vary a little but is mostly linear as only the right answer with slight variations 
 will get you through a scene. 
  things could have been better if the game was openended and let you answer different ways and brached 
 the story out. Also they could have had more players to choose from than just one male and one 
 female. All the other character could have been playable but nope they took the easy way out and 
 just left use with two people who sometimes sound ethinic but are far from it. 
  
  The control is too simple. You push the A button for ever when you choose your answer or you can 
 advance the game by selecting an answer and tapping the screen with the stylus too easy.
  
  To sum things up its a good game but could have been so mcuh better if someone put more thought 
 into this good idea. Oh well its all about the money know what I mean. If you do you figure this 
 game out as soon as you get it assuming you do get it. Good things its cheap. Peace and enjoy ........ I 
 think. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: joshaskins
Rating: 2.5
Date: Mar 1, 2005 4:37 am PT
Review:  The earliest form of computer games were based around stories, usually in a simple text based adventure 
 which gave the player the option of what to do next - 'Go left' or 'Pick up' for example. It was 
 the ability to interact and decide which way the story went that was such a pull factor for people 
 to play these games. Nowadays though, interaction in games means feeling like you actually are 
 driving a formula 1 car round Monaco or experiencing the emotions of being a solider in a war and 
 so naturally going back to play the old text based adventures feels very drab and old hat. So when 
 Ubisoft released Sprung as one of their 3 launch titles for the DS, we were intrigued. A text 
 based dating simulator? Surely it couldnt work... 
  
  Graphics
  
  Ill start by talking about the graphics and animation within Sprung as it is one of the games 
 major plus points. The whole game is designed to look very much like a cartoon style story and 
 it works very well. The characters look well designed and colourful and the animation is superb 
 as they react to what ever you choose to throw at them. (Quite literally...) For example, choosing 
 to say something that implies you are wanting to get with the person you are talking to can produce 
 a blush or a nervous reaction and it looks very good on the DS screens. The emotions of the characters 
 are pretty good and the reactions of them to certain events helps to improve them further  you 
 really get the sense of how you are making your friend feel. The top screen shows the person you 
 are having the conversation with whereas the touch screen is kept for your pretty face and the 
 choice of dialogues. Its certainly very nice presentation and animation and although it doesnt 
 in anyway push the DS abilities like Metroid does, it performs well and youll be happy to watch 
 the story unfold without having to cringe at any graphical errors. This is a very good job because 
 you spend all the time staring at these graphics and watching the characters animations 
  
  Sound
  
  The sound is OK but dont expect anything exciting. There is no speech and so 
 all you get with the conversations is text and a few reaction sounds now and then. I suppose if 
 they had included speech for every dialogue then it would have probably become very annoying. Seeing 
 as there is no real way of being able to complete this game straight through without messing up 
 at least once, then this would lead to having to hear the same speech over and over again and this 
 would have began to annoy. But we will never know now. The music in the game is not quite cheesy 
 enough to be annoying but still not catchy enough to keep you humming along all day. Each stage 
 has its own music track and these seem appropriate enough to the setting. Basically, it does its 
 job but doesnt try and improve on that.
  
  Gameplay
  
  The one thing that really worried us about Sprung when we first heard it was coming to the DS was 
 the fact Ubisoft said it was based on choosing dialogue in order to pull. Sadly, they werent 
 lying. You start the game with the option of playing as either Becky or Brett who are apparently 
 best mates. The two of you go on a holiday to a ski-resort with the sole intention of hooking up 
 with a member of the opposite sex. Secretly though the two mates are in love with one another and 
 this becomes clear later on though the various scenarios. Yes, the story really is that exciting. 
 Scenes take place in friends rooms, the ski resort, restaurants etc and although the backgrounds 
 look nice and different, the gameplay is ultimately the same.
  
  In the conversations (or stages) throughout the game you will see your player on the touch screen 
 along with some conversation options and the person you are speaking to on the top screen. You 
 simply have to choose the line of text to speak to the other character by pressing it with the 
 stylus  your character says it and the other character responds appropriately. This leads to 
 more options and the sequence repeats. When I say repeats, I mean it repeats for the entire game 
 and there is not much else to it. You aim to achieve specific goals within each of the scenarios 
 which could be anything from cheering up your friend, to trying to get your friend to go out 
 on a date with you. It may sound simple but some of these goals take a long time to complete and 
 have a huge amount of possible outcomes that you could end up with  luckily many of the scenes 
 do have checkpoints so you dont have to return to the beginning should you fail to complete the 
 task. Sometimes it also feels like guesswork and you cannot accurately know what the other character 
 is wanting you to say in order to achieve your goal. Maybe if they have added some sort of way 
 to get to know each character more, so you could work out what they would like to hear, then this 
 would have made the game more playable. Deep down though, this game IS only a text based game and 
 is certainly not cutting edge, but it did keep me entertained for a good while.
  
  Another one of the main reasons that this game managed to make me smile is the dialogue and conversations. 
 They are really well scripted and should manage to make even the most boring of people raise a 
 smile. This is down to the fact that Ubisoft have pulled in one of the writers on the FOX show, 
 North Shore to write the conversations in Sprung. Its a very good job, as the conversations are 
 what the game relies on and if they were boring then I really couldnt see anyone wanting to play 
 the game. Hats off to Ubisoft for not trying to write them themselves! It may also be worth telling 
 you that Sprung is rated T  for teen and this is clear with some of the rather dodgy text  its 
 funny and by no means an adult game but just bare the teen rating in mind if showing this game 
 to younger gamers.
  
  There are also items that you are able to collect during the game, usually from asking for them 
 or just receiving them as presents from characters when you choose the correct dialogue. These 
 items can be used to try and help you out in a conversation where you are losing the other characters 
 interest or failing to meet the goal of the scene. They add a bit to the gameplay but not really 
 enough to shout about and its very rare that the objects can really effect the path of the game 
 greatly, which is a shame.
  
  Lifespan
  
  Sprung embarrassingly took me around 6  7 hours to complete through as Brett, and I only achieved 
 that time by major use of trial and error. If you wish to play through as Becky as well and see 
 how that story pads out then the game could take you up to around 10  15 hours which is decent. 
 But then you have to remember than your playing a text based game here  we are not talking 15 
 hours of shooting or jumping  its 15 hours of reading and choosing options. Sure the conversations 
 are funny and I personally found it really rewarding to play to the end of the game to see how 
 the story finished but to many people this game will be as interesting as watching paint dry. The 
 item collecting also does not add to the replay value and once you have completed the game as one 
 (or both) of the characters then the chances are you will not come back to it. It is impressive 
 to see how many options and conversation paths that are included into each scene on Sprung and 
 there are hundreds of ways each conversation can end up but who honestly is going to want to play 
 it hundreds of times? 
  
  Summary
  
  Sprung is certainly a different game and is a big change from the likes of Mario and Metroid. The 
 graphics look nice and the animations do a great job in portraying the characters emotions. However 
 the game just feels so dated and slow as all you do is select dialogues for your character to say. 
 The conversations are sure to make you smile with their slightly rude wit and eyebrow raising comments 
 but once you have got over the novelty value the game really begins to drag. Ubisoft could have 
 made such a better job of their second DS launch game but instead it ended up as a text based interactive 
 story with dating. Lets face it, it is far more fun and productive to get out their and try your 
 pulling skills for real! Its crazy and you wont have played much like it before, but by the 
 time you switch off your DS, youll be praying you never play anything like it again. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: SlayrUK
Rating: 4.4
Date: Jan 17, 2005 9:06 pm PT
Review:  The earliest form of computer games were based around stories, usually in a simple text based adventure 
 which gave the player the option of what to do next - 'Go left' or 'Pick up' for example. It was 
 the ability to interact and decide which way the story went that was such a pull factor for people 
 to play these games. Nowadays though, interaction in games means feeling like you actually are 
 driving a formula 1 car round Monaco or experiencing the emotions of being a solider in a war and 
 so naturally going back to play the old text based adventures feels very drab and old hat. So when 
 Ubisoft released Sprung as one of their 3 launch titles for the DS, we were intrigued. A text 
 based dating simulator? Surely it couldnt work...
  
  Ill start by talking about the graphics and animation within Sprung as it is one of the games 
 major plus points. The whole game is designed to look very much like a cartoon style story and 
 it works very well. The characters look well designed and colourful and the animation is superb 
 as they react to what ever you choose to throw at them. (Quite literally...) For example, choosing 
 to say something that implies you are wanting to get with the person you are talking to can produce 
 a blush or a nervous reaction and it looks very good on the DS screens. The emotions of the characters 
 are pretty good and the reactions of them to certain events helps to improve them further  you 
 really get the sense of how you are making your friend feel. The top screen shows the person you 
 are having the conversation with whereas the touch screen is kept for your pretty face and the 
 choice of dialogues. Its certainly very nice presentation and animation and although it doesnt 
 in anyway push the DS abilities like Metroid does, it performs well and youll be happy to watch 
 the story unfold without having to cringe at any graphical errors. This is a very good job because 
 you spend all the time staring at these graphics and watching the characters animations
  
  The sound is OK but dont expect anything exciting. There is no speech and so all you get with 
 the conversations is text and a few reaction sounds now and then. I suppose if they had included 
 speech for every dialogue then it would have probably become very annoying. Seeing as there is 
 no real way of being able to complete this game straight through without messing up at least once, 
 then this would lead to having to hear the same speech over and over again and this would have 
 began to annoy. But we will never know now. The music in the game is not quite cheesy enough to 
 be annoying but still not catchy enough to keep you humming along all day. Each stage has its own 
 music track and these seem appropriate enough to the setting. Basically, it does its job but doesnt 
 try and improve on that.
  
  The one thing that really worried us about Sprung when we first heard it was coming to the DS was 
 the fact Ubisoft said it was based on choosing dialogue in order to pull. Sadly, they werent 
 lying. You start the game with the option of playing as either Becky or Brett who are apparently 
 best mates. The two of you go on a holiday to a ski-resort with the sole intention of hooking up 
 with a member of the opposite sex. Secretly though the two mates are in love with one another and 
 this becomes clear later on though the various scenarios. Yes, the story really is that exciting. 
 Scenes take place in friends rooms, the ski resort, restaurants etc and although the backgrounds 
 look nice and different, the gameplay is ultimately the same.
  
  In the conversations (or stages) throughout the game you will see your player on the touch screen 
 along with some conversation options and the person you are speaking to on the top screen. You 
 simply have to choose the line of text to speak to the other character by pressing it with the 
 stylus  your character says it and the other character responds appropriately. This leads to 
 more options and the sequence repeats. When I say repeats, I mean it repeats for the entire game 
 and there is not much else to it. You aim to achieve specific goals within each of the scenarios 
 which could be anything from cheering up your friend, to trying to get your friend to go out 
 on a date with you. It may sound simple but some of these goals take a long time to complete and 
 have a huge amount of possible outcomes that you could end up with  luckily many of the scenes 
 do have checkpoints so you dont have to return to the beginning should you fail to complete the 
 task. Sometimes it also feels like guesswork and you cannot accurately know what the other character 
 is wanting you to say in order to achieve your goal. Maybe if they have added some sort of way 
 to get to know each character more, so you could work out what they would like to hear, then this 
 would have made the game more playable. Deep down though, this game IS only a text based game and 
 is certainly not cutting edge, but it did keep me entertained for a good while.
  
  Another one of the main reasons that this game managed to make me smile is the dialogue and conversations. 
 They are really well scripted and should manage to make even the most boring of people raise a 
 smile. This is down to the fact that Ubisoft have pulled in one of the writers on the FOX show, 
 North Shore to write the conversations in Sprung. Its a very good job, as the conversations are 
 what the game relies on and if they were boring then I really couldnt see anyone wanting to play 
 the game. Hats off to Ubisoft for not trying to write them themselves! It may also be worth telling 
 you that Sprung is rated T  for teen and this is clear with some of the rather dodgy text  its 
 funny and by no means an adult game but just bare the teen rating in mind if showing this game 
 to younger gamers.
  
  There are also items that you are able to collect during the game, usually from asking for them 
 or just receiving them as presents from characters when you choose the correct dialogue. These 
 items can be used to try and help you out in a conversation where you are losing the other characters 
 interest or failing to meet the goal of the scene. They add a bit to the gameplay but not really 
 enough to shout about and its very rare that the objects can really effect the path of the game 
 greatly, which is a shame.
  
  Sprung embarrassingly took me around 6  7 hours to complete through as Brett, and I only achieved 
 that time by major use of trial and error. If you wish to play through as Becky as well and see 
 how that story pads out then the game could take you up to around 10  15 hours which is decent. 
 But then you have to remember than your playing a text based game here  we are not talking 15 
 hours of shooting or jumping  its 15 hours of reading and choosing options. Sure the conversations 
 are funny and I personally found it really rewarding to play to the end of the game to see how 
 the story finished but to many people this game will be as interesting as watching paint dry. The 
 item collecting also does not add to the replay value and once you have completed the game as one 
 (or both) of the characters then the chances are you will not come back to it. It is impressive 
 to see how many options and conversation paths that are included into each scene on Sprung and 
 there are hundreds of ways each conversation can end up but who honestly is going to want to play 
 it hundreds of times? 
  
  Sprung is certainly a different game and is a big change from the likes of Mario and Metroid. The 
 graphics look nice and the animations do a great job in portraying the characters emotions. However 
 the game just feels so dated and slow as all you do is select dialogues for your character to say. 
 The conversations are sure to make you smile with their slightly rude wit and eyebrow raising comments 
 but once you have got over the novelty value the game really begins to drag. Ubisoft could have 
 made such a better job of their second DS launch game but instead it ended up as a text based interactive 
 story with dating. Lets face it, it is far more fun and productive to get out their and try your 
 pulling skills for real! Its crazy and you wont have played much like it before, but by the 
 time you switch off your DS, youll be praying you never play anything like it again. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: humcast
Rating: 8
Date: Dec 16, 2004 9:30 pm PT
Review:  Nintendo DS's Sprung, Ubisoft's second title for the dual screen handheld, isn't much more than 
 a glorified return to the days of the text adventure... and not nearly as interactive as the "classics" 
 since this one's reduced to simple multiple choice responses and obvious guesswork. The game is 
 essentially just a bunch of conversations that take place during two characters' stay at the Ski 
 Lodge, so anyone actually expecting to hit the slopes for some skiing will be very, very disappointed. 
 Tasks range from scoring a VIP badge for a party, to hooking up with a model, to scoring with one 
 bodacious babe. And having two different characters to play as means two different ways to play 
 the adventure. Conversations are handled through multiple choice selecting via the touch-screen 
 or the D-pad, and each action has its own concequences that will hurt or help your chances in completing 
 the task that's set forth at the beginning of the game. Some decisions will actually stop the mission 
 with a screeching halt to a "game over" screen, while some branches actually reward players with 
 what's known as a "Golden Line." These "golden lines" can be accumulated which will open up additional 
 missions not in the normal level tree. At the very least, the writers push the limits of the Teen 
 rating with uncensored "a -- hole" namecalling and the hint at homosexual and bisexual encounters 
 in several of the games dating "missions." And the dual-screen interface comes in handy to gauge 
 the two people's moods before and after each response -- the game's animation is actually incredibly 
 well done, almost feature film quality as each person moves from his or her happy, sad, horny, 
 embarassed... even if these sequences are canned and recycled over and over throughout the storyline. 
 No lines are spoken, though, and with so much noiseless yammering back and forth these characters 
 do, the game unfortunately feels like an interactive silent movie more than it does an adventure 
 design. Sprung has a "fun" style throughout its production, but the entire experience is absolutely, 
 dreadfully dull and unfulfilling. Break down the game to its parts and it's nothing more than a 
 rigid algorithm tree, and even if you don't even read the thousands of lines of text you can poke 
 your way through the dialogue to a "win" situation. The entire design of Sprung is what most other 
 Adventure Games would consider a side-quest or a mini-game to a much more elaborate production. 
 It's a bunch of menus that are masquerading in a production that seems to promise more than it 
 can ever dream on delivering. 
  But all and all it a good game...........
  
  
  
  
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
