-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Spyro: Shadow Legacy
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/ds/action/spyroshadowlegacy/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 Lots of moves and abilities for Spyro to learn.
 Nicely drawn backgrounds and smoothly animated characters.
 Good music.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 Collision-detection issues make for some awkward moments.
 Simplistic gameplay offers no challenge.
 Repetitive missions get old quickly.
 Annoying sound effects.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Jan  5, 2006
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 5.3
Critic Score: 5.3, 22 Review (s)
User Score: 7.0, 232 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: VU Games
Developer: Amaze
Genre: Fantasy Action Adventure
Date: Oct 18, 2005
ESRB: Everyone

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Spyro: Shadow Legacy is a watered-down action role-playing game that isn't challenging or engaging 
 enough to sustain its brief campaign. 

  Spyro, the little purple dragon originally created by Insomniac Games, has appeared in more than 
 a dozen different games since his debut in 1998. His games span just about every modern platform, 
 but the little guy hasn't aged well at all. It's without surprise, then, that Spyro has found his 
 way to the Nintendo DS in the form of Spyro: Shadow Legacy. Spyro's spotty reputation isn't going 
 to be rectified with this release, because Shadow Legacy lacks any sort of depth or challenge, 
 making it suitable only for very young or otherwise undemanding audiences.  

          Spyro makes his debut on the DS with a half-hearted action adventure game with some thin 
 RPG elements tacked on.     

  The game begins with Spyro on vacation at a tropical resort, when all of a sudden a strange storm 
 approaches and draws everyone into an alternate dimension known as the shadow realm. Spyro is unaffected 
 by this weirdness, so it's up to him to free the Dragon Elders from their confines in the shadow 
 realm. Once freed, the elders help Spyro develop his magical powers and special abilities, empowering 
 him to save the world and defeat the mysterious evil that has shrouded the land in shadow.  

  The world is full of dimensional gates that Spyro can use to hop between the shadow realm and 
 the real world. These gates are always conveniently placed to make it abundantly clear exactly 
 when and where you're supposed to switch from one world to the other. The reason you need to do 
 this is that some items and creatures exist only in the shadow realm, and vice versa. The creatures 
 in the shadow realm are predictably more fearsome, and everything is a bit more purple and gray, 
 but otherwise the two worlds are identical. Spyro's abilities do change ever so slightly depending 
 on which realm he's in. He can glide a bit further in the shadow realm, but he can't burn objects 
 like tree stumps or shrubs with his fire breath while he's there. Again, these limitations never 
 hinder your progress, because there's always a dimensional gate nearby when you need one.  

  The world in Shadow Legacy is divided into four small continents, which are each further divided 
 into habitats for various species, including moles, armadillos, cheetahs, bears, wizards, cavemen, 
 fairies, and, of course, dragons. You travel from spot to spot freeing each of these creatures, 
 at which point you can choose to accept miniquests from them to get extra experience or helpful 
 items. Some of these quests are required to complete the game, and others can be ignored -- though 
 the game annoyingly offers no indication of which are required and which are optional. The quests 
 are all simplistic collection tasks that don't take much time or effort to complete. You'll have 
 to find some ice cream for a fairy, collect ingredients to make medicine for a sick cheetah, find 
 bones to build an altar for the cavemen, and so on. If they were more fleshed out, the quests would 
 provide a nice diversion, but as is, they're just too simple and short-lived to be any fun at all. 

  As you fight off the insectlike creatures in the shadow realm, you earn items, gems, and experience, 
 which makes this game less like a standard Spyro platformer and more like a watered-down action 
 role-playing game. When you earn enough experience, you'll level up, at which point you can visit 
 the temple to learn new skills from the Dragon Elders. There are six elders in all, each with unique 
 specialties such as magic, jumping, and charge skills, and special attacks. There are more than 
 two dozen skills and abilities to learn, but only a few of them are required to progress through 
 the game. Spyro can double-jump, glide, deflect attacks with his wings, use breath attacks, and 
 cast magic spells. The five magic spells (and one secret spell that you can unlock by collecting 
 dragon eggs) , are cast by drawing symbols on the touch screen. The teleport spell is handy for 
 quickly traveling about the world, but the rest of the magic spells are rarely useful enough to 
 warrant messing with the touch screen during combat.  

  Although the gameplay in Shadow Legacy is generally unimpressive, the game does look and sound 
 good. Unfortunately, a few technical problems mar an otherwise solid presentation. The characters 
 aren't very detailed, and the static character portraits are downright ugly, but the creatures 
 all look good in motion. Spyro in particular has quite a few different animations to accompany 
 all of his various special moves and abilities. The backgrounds are all drawn with great detail, 
 and although they stick to standard video game themes like lava-filled caverns and craggy cliffs, 
 they all look good. There is an odd disconnect between the hand-drawn backgrounds and the polygonal 
 characters, though, which results in some awkward collision-detection issues. It's often difficult 
 to determine exactly where Spyro makes contact with the environment, which often makes it difficult 
 to judge height when moving between platforms. There are also times when Spyro will get stuck on 
 or in walls, or seem to stand on thin air. In addition to the collision-detection problems, the 
 game does suffer the occasional slowdown, which is annoying but isn't prevalent enough to severely 
 limit gameplay.  

          The game looks nice, but screwy collision detection makes for some awkward moments.    

  The sound in the game is equally spotty. The music is all well done, and each tune fits its respective 
 stage just fine. There's a tropical reggae beat for the beachside resort, a quiet Eastern melody 
 for the temple area, a twangy banjo tune for the swamp, and so on. Compared to the pleasant but 
 unassuming music, the sound effects can be jarring. The sound effects are all loud and distorted, 
 and you'll hear the same noises repeated constantly throughout the game. After you've heard the 
 annoying wind-whooshing sound of Spyro's dash attack a couple of dozen times, you'll want to turn 
 it off, which you can thankfully do in the options menu.  

  You can easily complete Spyro: Shadow Legacy in just a few hours, but you can stretch that to six 
 hours if you take the time to complete each side quest and collect all the dragon eggs. Chances 
 are you won't have any problem breezing through the game, and there's no option to change the difficulty, 
 so you won't have any reason to come back to the game once you're finished. Shadow Legacy is obviously 
 geared toward younger audiences, and for them it might actually provide a few hours of easy entertainment. 
 Everyone else will be disappointed with the simplistic, uninspired gameplay in Spyro: Shadow Legacy. 
     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (18 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: The_CJ_Dude
Rating: 7.5
Date: Nov 17, 2008 1:30 pm PT
Review:  This review is going to be short and sweet.
  
  Right, I'm not a fantastic reviewer, but let's just forget about the graphics. It's a DS game! 
 Of course it wasn't going to look fantastic, even though most DS games are better looking. To start, 
 the gameplay is good and includes using the touch screen to create spells (which can save your 
 life at times!) . There is an element of RPG in the game as well, which is good because it gives 
 some extra value to it.
  
  The music is average, but that shouldn't distract you from the game! I mean, if you hated it, you 
 could just turn the volume down. The same goes for the sound effects.
  
  Right, I'm going to talk about the graphics now. If the graphics were better, would this game have 
 gotten better reviews? Probably yes, because the ancient looking graphics (for the DS that is) 
 cause most of the problems and glitches people are moaning about. Most of the items are in 2D, 
 unlike the GBA games, so that was a disappointment for me. But look, I ignored those graphics and 
 thought it was a great and fun game.
  
  Overall, the game is good and addictive if you can ignore the graphics and the story is quite good 
 aswell. It is basically a portable version of 'A Hero's Tail' because of the style and it has interesting 
 bosses. Not exactly the boss fights, but the bosses look good. So I'm giving this a 7.5 becuase 
 of how fun it is if you ignore the glitches and graphics.
  
  End of review! :) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dancinkayley
Rating: 6
Date: Dec 16, 2006 10:08 pm PT
Review:  In 1998 Insomaniac Games created a game called Spyro the Dragon. They created a trilogy (a VERY 
 GOOD TRILOGY) . Later they handed their game licence to Vivendi Universal Games, and everything 
 went downhill with Spyro: Enter the Dragonfly and Spyro: Season of Ice *shudders*. Some games, 
 I admit, were good, such as Spyro: A Hero's Tail and Spyro: Attack of the Rhynocs.
  
  This game was shoved in the middle. Not that great, not that bad. Why? Read on.
  
  Let's start 
 with the sound to get it over and done with. Some sounds are alright, some are ABSOLUTELY HORRIBLE 
 at times. What's alright? I like the spellcasting sounds. (My friend likes the Banish Spell, because 
 Spyro screams out LOOOOORRRRRRRRE!!! which I reckon is pretty odd.) What's ABSOLUTELY HORRIBLE? 
 Well when you charge it makes a little noise that's like a grunt. My friend says it makes Spyro 
 sound like he's falling off a cliff!
  
  The music is REALLY GOOD I reckon! Most places have their own music. All caves have the same music 
 (welll, dripping water) and the cave music is rather weird. All houses have the same music as well, 
 at least THAT is actually music. The Shadow Realm (I'll explain that later) will always have the 
 same music as well, it doesn't depend on where you are. Some of the best tunes are: #1. The tune 
 in which you first enter a level, go to the Shadow Realm and go out of the shadow realm without 
 finishing saving the villagers that need to be saved in this game. #2. The Fairy Realm/Wilderness 
 music.
  
  Now let's go onto.................. GRAPHICS!!!!!!!
  The background graphics are REALLY good. The floor graphics are good too, very detailed. Some bits 
 of the ground are swirly. However the characters look rather blocky and expressionless. The picture 
 of the character in the speaking sequences have the indescribable, well, different, look. The cutscenes 
 (which is just text on the touch screen and a picture on the top screen and you touch the screen 
 to skip through each part) look really nice. My friend says in the Shadow Realm it is sometimes 
 hard to go around because the ground looks the same as the gaps.
  
  Next is the big part... gameplay. A mysterious enemy (no, not Red) brainwashes Red and transports 
 most of the world's creatures into the Shadow Realm and Spyro has to save them. (Great plotline 
 for an RPG.) You walk around and defeat monsters and rescue villagers and complete sidequests, 
 pretty much. You think that's repetitive? Most games do have repetition. For example, Halo 2 appears 
 to just be walking around shooting stuff doing missions, and Mario vs. Donkey Kong is just walking 
 around platforms solving puzzles and getting Mini Mario Toys. Some sidequests can be annoying. 
 Like, deliver this letter. Doing sidequests gets you experience, which is required to level up. 
 When you level up you can learn/upgrade 2 more skills. When you start, unfortunately most times 
 the dragons that teach you skills will force you to learn moves. Once you get to level 5-6 you 
 have freedom until level 17, in which you will have finished learning all of the skills and no 
 dragons will have anything to teach you.
  Monsters are quite easy to defeat and are the key to rescuing villagers. You have to defeat a certain 
 amount of monsters around a cage to open the cage and then touch the villager for them to return 
 to the real world. The X button does a horn attack, the Y button does a breath attack and the A 
 button does a tail attack. You can get combo attacks by... dun dun DUUUUUUUUUN!!! getting a dragon 
 to teach you.
  
  Oh, I forgot. You can learn 6 spells in the game. The first one is the Teleport spell, which allows 
 you to teleport to certain teleport pads scattered around the worlds. The higher your ability, 
 the further you can teleport around the three worlds. There are sound effects for some spells, 
 such as the Banish spell: Spyro yells out...  
 
  
  After you rescue all villagers in an area, you can do sidequests. As stated before, some are really 
 annoying.
  
  Again I've forgotten something: You need to gain a Shadowstone and find a dimension pad to warp 
 into the shadow realm, which is basically the same as the normal realm except the colours are different 
 and there are different monsters and some changes (e. g. Breath attacks don't work and you can glide 
 further) . Did you know a dragon has to teach you to glide, unlike the preious games??? Some obstacles 
 will have turned transparent in the shadow realm, allowing you to pass through. Some attacks work 
 better, like the Banish Spell. I like that idea, never seen that in any game before. You can collect 
 crystals too, that power up things, eventually they crack and fade, and you can get some more from 
 walking around or from paying Moneybags or his children... You need to rescue them BEFORE you can 
 buy anything unfortunately. Your pocketbook gets full really early in the game...
  
  Well that's all of my ramblings about the game play. On to value... Well, GREAT value for me, I 
 received this as a present!!! (If not... maybe not so much, it was $70 AUD.)
  
  So... to round it off... I like the graphics, I like the music, I like the gameplay, ya ya ya. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: WeyrCat
Rating: 7
Date: Oct 14, 2006 11:08 pm PT
Review:  got this as a gift to myself when I got my DSLite, and I'm not really sorry I did.
  Like most Spyro games the storyline is basic and the moves (while neatly upgradeable) are one-to-two 
 button repeatables. IE: Horn jab, horn jab, tail whip, repeat. The graphics were totally cool (gotta 
 love that purpley Shadow World...) However, the neat 3-D bossfights would have been better if you 
 didn't have to compete with bad (read no ) camera control, and the AWFUL border detection (only 
 really a pain in the final boss fight.)
  
  I loved the little collection sidequests, even if some of them were a major pain (be in Shadow 
 and glide to a platform you HOPE is there, diving into the watery depths of DEAD a few times.) 
 The characters you meet were cute and pretty interesting if not simple. Some of the monsters could 
 have had some work done though... I spent more time with Wing Shield up just letting the Blue butterflies 
 kill themselves. Time wasting, but easier than wasting Chi on them.
  
  All in all, the game was frustrating, pretty, easily grindable, and had a very simple storyline. 
 Right up my alley lol.
  
  7.0 or C (for effort and amusing me.) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Anarki983
Rating: 9.8
Date: Sep 30, 2006 3:06 pm PT
Review:  Lol, Spyro was never one of my favorite game series, but it's still alright, it's one of the games 
 that sucks in a few parts, and everyone hates it because of that. I've never understood why. It 
 seems that even when you paly it at the start, you hate it. Even when it's alright in the middle, 
 they don't even bother with the story.
  
  Gameplay
  
  The gameplay is like all the other spyros, they are always all the same. This is why I never liked 
 spyro that much, they've always been exactly the same from every game, to the next. Not exactly, 
 but the gameplay. I know I'm not being clear enough.
  
  Graphics
  
  The graphics are truly bad, Even though I'm feeling really generous, I can't avoid it. They are 
 truly the worst of the worst.
  
  Difficulty
  
  The difficulty is easy, anyother reason why I don't like spyro. The only games I really like ,are 
 sword fight games, and shooting games. Pretty much.
  
  Storyline
  
  The storyline is that ripto, (from the other spyro) shows up in dragon land or where ever the hell 
 Spyro is, and steals all the dragon eggs. So spyro has to get them back, or something like taht.
 
  
  Alright, I'm done. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DSgurl
Rating: 4.9
Date: Jun 22, 2006 11:24 pm PT
Review:  I've been playing Spyro games on the PS for years, and so when I heard there was a game on it for 
 the DS, I got it asap.
  
  Let say it simply-I do not like this game. I'm not going to bash Spyro though, it's not his fault 
 he was put into this lackluster game.
  
  I'll describe why I dislike it so much. First off, the GBA style viewing is something I hate. I just 
 do like it. I'd much rather play at the first person angle I'm so used to playing at with this character. Also, the 
 music is eerie. Some it is pretty cool listening, but for the most part, it scares me. The graphics 
 are another thing. Spyro is the only thing moving in the background; it's not 3D. I know in this review 
 I'm wishing the game was one that it will never be, but you can blame me.
  
  The storyline is actually pretty interesting though, but it has some major faults. All the elder 
 dragons have been frozen or whatever, and it's up to Spyro to help them free. You roam from place 
 to place looking for these dragons, while along the way battling bug like creatures, etc.
  
  The overall plot sounds good to me, but I hate how long it takes to find the elders. They could've 
 of made it much simpler, but you have to go through a host of different terrains and creatures to 
 get to the dragon.
  
  I've played on this game for a very miniscule amount of time, and I dislike it many times more. Mind 
 you, I still love Spyro, but this game was not up to par.
  
  I just hope that the next Spyro games for the DS will be much, much better than this one. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: blue_man
Rating: 8.6
Date: Jun 14, 2006 10:51 am PT
Review:  Game play 9/10
  
  This isn't like any other spyro games, this spyro is an RPG. The controls are awesome, they are 
 swift, quick and do the job well. It's level based like most RPGs are, you kill enemies for experience 
 points and those experience points increase you level. You also have two realms, in these realms 
 you can see different things, some things are hidden only to be seen in one realm. But as you level 
 up spyro can do more things, and learn new powers. These powers come in handy in various places.
 
  
  Graphics 6/10
  
  They are good graphics, but they are not very bright. They are so dull and boring. They are 64 
 bit, but are not very good. I would be ashamed to play this on a ps1 comparing it to the ps1 spyro 
 games. On the positive side they are very clear and they suit some of the darker places you go 
 to, and the background is pretty detailed.
  
  Storyline 9/10
  
  Actually believe it or not this game has a great storyline. You are a dragon named spyro, and you 
 have to save the dragons by finding them in the shadow realms. In these shadow realms they are 
 nasty places which spyro must go in to. You will meet so many villains. There is as well so many 
 dragons, who will help you on your quest. 
  
  Sound 6/10
  
  Very dark and gloomy, spyro's attacks sound very realistic. But there is little else to talk about 
 in sound because the music is exactly the same.
  
  Replayability 9/10
  
  There is so much to play through you want to stop. There are so many activities to do, so much 
 to collect. Loads of quests to go through. After you have finished, you'll just want to play it 
 again.
  
  Features 7/10 
  
  There is not really any extra modes, but oh well it's an RPG all the extra fun is within the game. 
 You can play through the extra quests, so there is little modes.
  
  Overall 8/10
  
  If you are looking for an RPG buy a Final fantasy game, if you are a spyro fan buy this. It's not 
 the best of all spyro games. But certainly not the worst. I recommend it to spyro and some RPG 
 fans.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mysticgray
Rating: 7.4
Date: May 15, 2006 12:45 pm PT
Review:  I originally played Spyro on the Playstation 1 and I loved it!! It was cute, funny had good graphics, 
 a good storyline, great gameplay and was soooooo addictive! 
  So I rushed out to buy this game for my DS in the belief that this would be something like the 
 original Spyro games! What a joke that is! Although I DO like the game, it is in itself disappointing 
 compared to past Spyro games! 
  The graphics are great, Spyro has some good new moves and is pretty easy to manouver but its just 
 all to samey!! There is nothing really that new or that exiting to make this a great game! Its 
 just more of the same (to be honest not as good as) but with a new name and better graphics!
  Come on can't you do better than that?? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DurhamNC
Rating: 8.1
Date: Apr 2, 2006 8:45 am PT
Review:  I took a chance on this game. Given what's out and what's available, and given I had a gift card, 
 I picked Spyro up. I'd read the reviews in advance and was somewhat concerned that I was making 
 the wrong decision. But, in the end, I didn't. Spyro is repetitive, let's say that from the beginning. 
 The formula, find and resuce the imperiled by fighting some baddies who have them imprisioned is 
 cut and past from one area to the next. And it's bloody irritating that you're about a third of 
 the way through the game before you can purchase anything -- this means you have a small wallet 
 (many thousands of gems go to waste) and can only carry one key at a time. That said, though, the 
 role-playing element is addictive. Levelling up isn't fast, but it's not slow either, and the abilities 
 you unlock are fun. That's what pushes the game forward, really. And, though the battle formula 
 is repeated from one area to the next, the backgrounds, enemies, graphics, and puzzles change enough 
 to make the game entertaining. If you can find it for 20 or 25 dollars, it's an amazing game. If 
 the price is a premium 30 or 35, hold off and search for a copy online.
  
  A fun and simple game with some addictive qualities. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ariel_king
Rating: 6.6
Date: Mar 27, 2006 11:35 am PT
Review:  I played this game and I was really disappointing by it.
  
  Gameplay: If you played a game of the series then you will problay know what to expect from this 
 game. You need to go and save the world. I had a lot of problems with the game. For example: You 
 don't know where you supose to go, the attacks are really lame and the monsters are really easy 
 to beat.
  
  Graphics: The graphics are really disappointing in this game. I mean, there are some really cool 
 visuals in this game like the characters and the areas but the attacks and enemies are total letdown.
 
  
  Sound: The sound in this game are decent for a Nintendo DS game. The sound effects aren't that 
 special and the music is good.
  
  Value: If you are a hardcore RPG fan then you will play this game for hours and hours. If you aren't 
 then you won't be interested in this game. The storyline is really boring and the leveling up is 
 quite boring because the enemies are so easy to beat.
  
  Reviewer's tilt: Overall this game is a great game for a Hardcore fans and those who want a simple 
 RPG will have to look somewhere else. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Jeran_fan
Rating: 2.9
Date: Mar 26, 2006 2:53 pm PT
Review:  For the longest time, Spyro has been our house pet. Lately, he's been crapping all over the carpet.
 
  
  We all remember Spyro as the cute little dragon that always had somthing spiffy to say. Well, now 
 his spiffiness turned into money-eating fangs. I think my IQ went down 300 because I plad this 
 game (Don't worry, it's just a matter of speech ;)
  
  The Good-Nice Music, Okey Grapics, but It would have been better if it was all 2-D. The touch screen 
 moves and spells are fun to watch
  The Bad-Everything else
  
  The story is a let-down. Spyro is enjoying a nice vvacation, when a beam of light almosts hits 
 him, and he relizes that there is this shadow realm that he needs to save everyone from.
  
  The sound is okey, but I'd rather listen to Kingdom Hearts Music, which is really repetaive. The 
 music is poisoning.
  
  The gameplay isn't all that. This game is WWAAYY to easy, and if It wasn't for the spells and moves 
 that Spyro pulls off, I would have stolen this game from my frind and returnd it for their own 
 good. The RPG isn't fun, you just gain levels, no, you don't gain Strengh or Agility or anything, 
 just levels. That isn't fun.
  
  If you buy this game and like it, you're kinda weird. Thsi game is only for Spyro maniacs that 
 would buy a terd for $100 if it had Spyro on it 
::::::

::::::
UserName: omy808
Rating: 1.6
Date: Feb 20, 2006 7:37 am PT
Review:  Throughout the years, the Spyro Saga has been steadily declining in all the aspects of a good game. 
 I thought I saw the worst when I played Enter the Dragonfly. Then came along Hero's Tail (which 
 was a lot worse) . And now, there's an abnormally abysmal piece of trash in my rubbish bin called 
 Shadow Legacy which only broke about a quarter of my monthly pocket money.
  
  Shadow Legacy is by far the most dreadful of the little dragon's adventures. This game offers neither 
 the great capacities of the DS gaming system, nor the patience of sitting there playing a half 
 an hour game like that. 
  
  The microphone is not used, while the Touch Screen is usually used for magic to kill enemies. Don't 
 expect some fantastic jinxes and hexes like in Harry Potter: there's only a couple spells which 
 are used only to decrease about a quarter of the enemies' health, taking away nearly all the MP 
 left in your gauge. Another unnecessary spell used is Teleport. Again, it takes away a considerable 
 amount of MP, but using it requires visiting Teleport Pads, which are scattered in a very illogical 
 manner. 
  
  If ever you buy the game, I advise you never to collect any of the 30 dragon eggs: you will be 
 awarded with a Ball Spell, which will allow you to visit a place where there are only two butterfilies 
 and a mushroom (I'm not joking!) . it is a lot easier to avoid the trouble of rounding off eggs 
 in an already boring game.
  
  The graphics are even worse. It is almost impossible to distinguish it from a first generation 
 game and a DS game. The characters are muddy and very bizzare. Sometimes, you can walk on solid 
 land and just drown inside the pavement! Very annoying...
  
  The famous "Shadow Realm" is also a nuisance. It is basically the exact replica of the real world 
 except that it's night time and there are special Shadow Monsters to fight. It is also clearly 
 overtaxing the DS system.
  
  The missions are organized in an impossibly chaotic fashion. For example, if you were required 
 to fetch some ingredients to a special potion, it is advisable to write them down on a piece of 
 paper; they will not be repeated twice, even in the Mission Bar in your Touch Screen. Some missions 
 require a lot of Teleporting, which is also a problem.
  
  A lot of times, you will be required to visit the Temple to get a Two Topic lesson with the Elders. 
 A lot of times, the stuff you learn is crap, and not worthwile, but if your lucky, you might get 
 something sutiable.
  
  Again, don't buy it, unless you're willing to flush your cash down the drain. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DRAGON467
Rating: 8
Date: Feb 15, 2006 4:53 pm PT
Review:  spyro sl for the ds actually surprised me! i mean since the play station days ther has only been 
 one spyro game i liked and it was for the gameboy advanced. this game is a unique game to the frachise 
 by adding majic and rpg elements to the game! this game has nice graphics for the d. s standards, 
 and the sudio is nice but i wish it had voice overs than it would be much beter. wut im telling 
 is that sice the playstation days spyro has been bad but like i said the only one since those great 
 days was a gba game! and this is a portable game also so im telling u guyz keep making these fun 
 lil game boy games because there really working for u! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: roryrocket
Rating: 6.5
Date: Feb 14, 2006 12:57 pm PT
Review:  I got this game for Christmas and I was finished it by that evening. I enjoyed it whilst I was 
 playing but when I had finished that was it! I expected some challenge mode like the Ratchet and 
 Clank games and definitely a bigger plot. I liked the way magic was used, using the stylus as a 
 wand and getting to the spells during game play was quick and easy. There were quite a few upgrades 
 for Spyro but you never got a chance to try them all. I found the controls relatively easy and 
 the moves looked decent on the screen. I sometimes found it a bit laborious trying to do the side 
 quests, because I wanted the experience but it was too easy and involved a lot of moving from island 
 to island looking for things. All in all I think it was a waste of money and it could have been 
 a lot better. I guess that teaches me not to buy another game with Spyro in the title! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: shizynity
Rating: 4.1
Date: Dec 31, 2005 7:13 pm PT
Review:  Please do not waste your precious money on this game! The only 3D things are Spyro, allies and 
 enemies! It's a bird's eye view game and the background and everything is 2D! I played this game 
 and asked the game clerk to exchange it for Nintendogs. Get Nintendogs instead! Oh, and the touch 
 screen feature is a bad use in the game. You just draw stuff time to time. But please, this game 
 is nothing compared to all other games! I mean it! ALL OTHER GAMES! I do not recommend this game 
 to anyone. Except for little children who prefer a fair game and play it for ever. You just die 
 everytime! Blah! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Yagami-Iori
Rating: 5.5
Date: Dec 18, 2005 11:21 am PT
Review:  Spyro games have been around for a while, but this is actually my first Spyro game. And what a 
 bad game for me to enter into the series with. This game is about Spyro just getting off his school 
 break when some dark forces paralyze the normal world & bring in some powerful dragons into the 
 shadow realm, making this game about you shifting back & forth to beat enemies & save other dragons. 
 After doing this over & over, you will get bored, as I did.
  
  Gameplay- 5- The game plkay would be ok... if they didn't make the game engine chug all the time. 
 There is no reason for 2D characters on a 3D plane to have such a slow engine. The developers really 
 got lazy.
  
  Graphics- 7- Everything is detailed nicely, but this score also suffers from chug.
  
  Sound- 
 5- Very bland, much like the rest of the game.
  
  Value- 6 There s a good amount there... you just may want to stop a LOT on the way there
  
 
  Tilt- 5- Shoulda been better 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bertesk
Rating: 8.4
Date: Nov 26, 2005 12:01 am PT
Review:  Spyro: Shadow Legacy is a Spyro RPG style game. It retains the fun of the GBA games while giving 
 a great new experience. Some people may complain about the graphics but I think they are good enough 
 to make the game passable. The sound is alright for a Spyro game but once you get into it you don't 
 really take notice. The RPG system allows you to grow levels and learn new moves. I find the game 
 to be a good experience. The game is pretty lengthy, I still haven't finished it. Overall it is 
 a good game for those who have a DS and enjoy the Spyro series. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sguss
Rating: 8.8
Date: Oct 30, 2005 6:40 am PT
Review:  So, this game is fun, there is all these special moves spyro can learn, it is great, i mean, i 
 love this game, i love the graphics, i love all of spyro's moves. The difficulty is just right, 
 not too hard. If you have a DS and like spyro, you should DEFINITELY get this game. It is one of 
 my fave DS games. It is an RPG spyro game yo. You can level up, and learn new moves. IT IS AWSOME. 
 I thought it might be bad, but I was wrong. It is fun. It is great. It is better than the GBA games. 
 It is tiiiiiiiiiiiiight. So, this game is fun, has good graphics, has good sound, and is great 
 for anyone who likes spyro or a fun RPG game. I don't understand how people cannot like this game. 
 MAKE A PURCHASE 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Super_Ky
Rating: 8.6
Date: Oct 23, 2005 5:28 pm PT
Review:  Spyro Shadow Legacy for the Nintendo DS is a great game! It is way fun and it has pretty good graphics. 
 There are a few glitches, like sometime Spyro may go through something or you may fall off of a 
 cliff when you are not very close to it. The sound in it is alright, in some areas in the game 
 the music is kind of annoying but it has maily pretty good sound. The difficulty is just right, 
 I love it. It's fairly easy but it's kind of long so I'd say it's just right. But the game is fun 
 and it will keep you playing it for ever! I'd say it is worth evey penny. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
