-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Star Wars Episode III: Revenge of the Sith
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/ds/action/starwarsepisodeiii/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 Plenty of different attacks and Force powers.
 Upgrade system provides replay incentive.
 Authentic Star Wars music and sound effects.
 Fluid character animation in 2D levels.
 3D ship levels and multiplayer mode justify purchase.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 Story mode doesn't take long to beat.
 Repetitive combat in the 2D levels.
 No actual music from the Revenge of the Sith movie.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: May 13, 2005
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 7.3
Critic Score: 7.2, 31 Review (s)
User Score: 7.9, 724 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Ubisoft
Genre: Sci-Fi Action Adventure
Date: May 4, 2005
ESRB: Everyone 10+

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
The 3D levels and the multiplayer mode built around them easily justify the $10 premium that the 
 DS game carries over the GBA game. 

  Ubisoft will probably take some flak over the Nintendo DS version of Star Wars Episode III: Revenge 
 of the Sith, since it's just the GBA version of the game with a handful of 3D starfighter levels 
 thrown in. Be that as it may, the 3D levels and the multiplayer mode that's built around them are 
 more than good enough to justify the 10 extra dollars that the DS game costs. Meanwhile, the 2D 
 beat-'em-up levels that make up the main portion of the game offer a fun, albeit brief, romp through 
 two different variations of the film's narrative.  

          Play as Obi-Wan or Anakin.     

  Right from the get-go, you have the option of playing 
 as either Obi-Wan Kenobi or Anakin Skywalker. Each character has his own set of attacks and Force 
 powers, as well as his own individual path through the game's 29 levels. Of these 29 levels, 21 
 are side-scrolling and organized so that each character has to go through five shared levels and 
 then eight levels that are unique to that specific character. The other eight levels are 3D starfighter 
 levels that are split evenly between the two characters. Obviously, Anakin's path is the more interesting 
 of the two, since it follows his transition from promising Jedi knight into the universally feared 
 menace known as Darth Vader.  

  The side-scrolling levels are set up much like the levels in any other beat-'em-up. Long corridors, 
 made up to look like locations from the film, are filled with hundreds of droid and clone soldiers, 
 which you have to dispatch using the attacks that are at your disposal. Enemy attacks take away 
 from your health meter; once it's depleted, you lose a life. Healing items, in the form of bacta 
 tanks, as well as Force power items and additional lives, are frequently dropped by enemies or 
 obtained by hacking away at objects in the scenery. Individual enemies don't have many attacks, 
 and they're generally not very good at defending themselves. But what they lack in individual strength 
 they make up for in numbers. Often, you'll find yourself flailing about in the middle of a pack 
 of as many as six enemies at a time, along with whatever other hazards are around (land mines, 
 automatic security guns, and so on) .  

  Wiping out the same enemies level after level does become tiresome after a while, but there's enough 
 variety built into the combat to keep things saucy. Every three levels or so, you'll face off against 
 a boss character that has his (or its) own unique pattern of attacks and weaknesses. There are 
 also a number of tanklike mini-bosses scattered here and there. Both characters have a hefty arsenal 
 of attacks and combinations, along with a half-dozen different Force powers. Different attacks 
 and combos can be performed by tapping out various combinations of the B button and directional 
 pad. The other buttons control actions such as Force powers, as well as jumping and blocking. In 
 a decidedly  Star Wars  twist, the block button can be used to reflect enemy blaster shots back 
 at them.  

  Stylish play is rewarded. At the end of every level, the game gives you free points that you can 
 put toward the characters' health, strength, or Force traits, as well as a number of style points 
 based upon how quickly you completed the level and what combinations you used along the way. These 
 "Jedi style" points can be used to purchase new Force powers and to upgrade existing ones. One 
 particularly nice thing is that once you complete a level, you can always go back to it and try 
 to obtain a better rank and more style points.  

  The Nintendo DS version of Star Wars Episode III: Revenge of the Sith also includes a number of 
 3D starfighter levels, which, once they're unlocked in the story mode, can be played right from 
 the main menu -- either against CPU-controlled bots or against as many as three additional DS units 
 via wireless link. Different teams and scoring rules can be set, and there are dozens of different 
 ships and paint schemes to pick from. The controls are quite welcoming. Steering and pitch are 
 handled with the directional pad and shoulder buttons, while throttle, guns, and missiles are handled 
 with the various main buttons. The environments are free roaming, so dogfights are often drawn 
 out and topsy-turvy. To make things interesting, there are weapon and shield items hidden among 
 the debris and buildings that make up the surrounding atmospheres and cities. Your ship and the 
 surrounding environments are shown in the upper screen, while the lower screen holds a radar display 
 and various informational readouts. The graphics in these levels are remarkably detailed and really 
 show what the DS is capable of. Also, the frame rate is silky smooth, even when there are three 
 other ships and a large star destroyer viewable in the crosshairs.  

          The 3D starfighter levels are so good that they deserve their own game.     

  For the 
 most part, Star Wars fans should be pleased with how the game follows the film's story and with 
 how it looks and sounds. All of the major events are covered, and you'll run across familiar characters 
 like Count Dooku, General Grievous, and Mace Windu along the way. The 2D levels in the DS game 
 are identical to the ones in the GBA game, but the graphics are nevertheless sharp and the animation 
 is extremely fluid. It's fun to watch Anakin and Obi-Wan transition from one lightsaber move to 
 the next and to see battle droids shatter into tiny pieces after every attack. Subtle background 
 details, such as animated waterfalls and passing speeder traffic, are also worth keeping an eye 
 out for. If anything, the development team probably should've added an extra background layer or 
 more visual effects to the 2D levels to take advantage of the DS's extra horsepower. As for the 
 audio, the soundtrack consists of high-quality renditions of tunes from previous Star Wars films, 
 as well as a good selection of various lightsaber, blaster shot, and droid comment sound effects. 

  All told, Star Wars Episode III: Revenge of the Sith for the Nintendo DS is a fun beat-'em-up, 
 but its real value lies in its 3D starfighter levels and the accompanying multiplayer mode that 
 are exclusive to this version of the game.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (52 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: Game-reviews
Rating: 8.5
Date: Mar 13, 2009 10:51 am PT
Review:  Star Wars Episode III : Revenge of the Sith has served me wel. I specifically opened it on the 
 11th March 2009 and completed it the next day, having now completed both Obi Wan's and Anakin's 
 storyline I can say there is no problem with the storylines.
  
  The graphics are obviously not the greatest but I would say that they have taken advantage of them. 
 For a DS game the graphics are really good and watching the robots and jedi's just fall from your 
 push force is actually wierdly satisfying in the fact that you know they are almost no match for 
 you.
  
  However the game does place some challenging bosses infront of you and makes sure that you will 
 be thinking about how exactly do you blow up this big gold ship. Well it didn't take me long to 
 figure out but at first I was a little confused and this could annoy some people.
  
  The gameplay was a enjoyable providing you with 4 special attacks for each of the 2 characters 
 and 4 different force moves, gives you a lot of variety in how you get your jedi style to full. 
 The controls are extremely satisfying and really don't take long to get used to maybe a maximum 
 of 5 minutes.
  
  The sounds were great I like the lightsaber sounds specifically because I always loved the movies 
 and it reminds me of watching them.
  
  This game will give you hours of satisfaction and it firmly deserves an 8.5 for it's gameplay.
 
  
  I will be making a Gameplay video soon. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dainsanereview
Rating: 5.5
Date: Sep 21, 2008 7:14 am PT
Review:  the game is average u get to destroy stuff use force push force choke force grasp and force lighting
 
  and force heal easy through hard isnt really that challenging graphics or ok to say the least 
 the gameplay is ok but not enoguh levels
  the voice clarity is really good some times
  i real just like going in circle cause u keep going
  that way --  around the world we go dont 
 cha mean the
  the unizerse dont worry theres still 13 more planet to go in circles man im dizzy. there are bosses 
 in it which makes it really cool. u can also upgrade your character one so on.
  if u like this game u meant like the one for xbox.
  u may wanna considor renting this game.
 
  controls there good not hard not easy just in between
  the game is very short it is like the equalvalance
  of walking to get a cup of coffee yes its 
 decaf.
  gameplay 5
  control 7
  sound 8
  grapihics 4 
::::::

::::::
UserName: HiiperDrive
Rating: 8.5
Date: Mar 6, 2008 11:30 am PT
Review:  Well, I think it seems only fitting that I review one of the DS games that I first got way back 
 in 2005, this time its the turn of Star Wars Episode III from Ubisoft. Most of the Star Wars games 
 that I had played in the past had extremely pleased me on the PS, PS2 and Xbox original, so the 
 odds of this handheld game version of the final movie of the prequels being a success in my standards 
 sempt pretty high, as yet again I shall dicsect what I thought of another DS title.
  First, as always, for the positives of Episode III, and for my first I must admit that as soon 
 as I entered the campaign screen I was pleased to see that you could play out the campaign as two 
 different characters, Obi-Wan and Anakin which I thought would chew up some time seeing as DS games 
 usually need along amount of time on the campaign to make up most of the replay value and time 
 spent on the game as a whole. The campaign itself, in my opinion worked well as a side-scroller 
 as there was always a wide variety of force powers to use and techniques for the player to use 
 when going in for attacks and the like. After you have completed the campaign in Episode III there 
 are some 'special missions' that can be completed with either Anakin or Obi-Wan which also chew 
 up some time, although not much, but are still much fun to play in as they are in space craft, 
 in 3-D and overall play very well on the DS as they are easy to fly and generally to fight with. 
 The multiplayer of Episode III is also very impressive as you can choose from an aray of aircraft 
 and a modest amount of maps to fight on which certainly should keep you busy for a long time afterwards. 
 If you haven't got the priveledge of playing with a friend as it is only multi-card play, then 
 you can play against bots in skirmish battles, although not as easily fun, there is certainly replay 
 value tucked into the Skirmish and is an interesting feature ot explore.
  The negatives, yes, those dang negatives, and Episode III certainly has a couple which hinder the 
 game from reaching its full potential which is a shame for this charming DS title, for one, the 
 title really doesn't differentiate itself from the GBA title, just with the space battles keeping 
 a void there in what really should be a big leap. Also the multiplayer option would have been really 
 nice if it had just single-cart play which would of been helpful in finding people to play and 
 also if brave enough WiFi which certainly would have put some brownie points on the multiplayer 
 options, continuing with multiplayer, it would of been nice to have had some different modes rather 
 than just deathmatch and team deathmatch, although it would have been tricky to pull off it would 
 have been certainly worth a try for all our DS gamers sakes! The campaign could of also done with 
 some actual dialogue and cinematic cut scenes to make the game feel even more like the movie, even 
 though the game does cope without them.
  Overall I do really like Episode III on the DS, it is certainly a game that I would reccomend to 
 fans of the series and definately casual gamers as the game is hindered by lack of replay value, 
 even though it is there, you need to really like the game to keep coming back for more weekly. 
 Sorry if this review is a little short as I have been caught on time and need to get going, but 
 thanks for reading as always!
  
  /HiiperDrive Out\ 
::::::

::::::
UserName: coolestkid200
Rating: 5
Date: Oct 22, 2007 5:37 am PT
Review:  I got this game in like march 2006 with some leftover birthday money (since my bday is in january) 
 for about 20 quid from argos. Little did i know how lame this game really was...
  
  For a start you hardly ever use the touch screen (One of the main reasons why i brought the blooming 
 DS in the first place!)
  
  The levels are far too short.
  
  The graphics are too 'cartoony'
  
  there isnt really much to do.
  
  and i beat the game 
 the day i got it! Unless you like short cartoony games then this isnt for you, even if you are 
 some massive star wars nerd. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: andrewh94
Rating: 9
Date: Jul 24, 2007 11:34 pm PT
Review:  This game is one of the best games I've played. One of the features is that you can control Anakin 
 Skywalker or Obi-Wan Kenobi. You also can pick from two difficulties which are Padawan (Normal) 
 and Jedi (Hard) There are many types of attacks like force push, force pull, fury attacks, force choke 
 and many more. There are also many types of droids and it is very fun to deflect the blaster and 
 kill them by the blaster they shot. The lightsaber moves are also very cool. You can even stab droids 
 behind you anytime you want.
  
  The space battles are very nice too as you can pick from a variety of battleships like the Jedi 
 Spacefighter!
  
  I recommend this game although the story is a bit short! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: do_the_mario
Rating: 3.5
Date: Mar 2, 2007 3:24 pm PT
Review:  Apprentice of the force took me less then twelve hours to beat this game took me about 3 days max 
 and was sadly a big let down and it's so bad that I can hardly even write a review levels over 
 fast duels easy to beat and Jedi Master mode just boring the only thing that is good is the multi 
 player and that isn't even wi-fi or down load playable so the fact that this was my first DS game 
 almost put me off mine not to mention the graphics are GBA quality the music was so bad that having 
 I-pod head phones didn't make it sound any better and this game just really is a let down it really 
 is an almost but not quite but that would be being generous 
::::::

::::::
UserName: brother_love
Rating: 6.4
Date: Nov 20, 2006 11:32 am PT
Review:  I picked this game up on the cheap from ebay as hoping i had grabbed a good Star Wars title for 
 pennies but i was grossly mistake. It isnt all bad, as the way the interpreted it into the 2 screen 
 format was rather clever. This game follows Episode III: Revenge Of The Sith very closely with 
 not many shocks.
  
  GAMEPLAY: 6/10 Well as i explained before adapting to the 2 screen format was well done on this 
 game compared to others on the DS. I found the levels were to short, to easy and didnt really catch 
 me off guard. As i went through each level i could very nearly to the exact second predict where 
 and when an enemy was going to appear. The bosses all except count dookoo i feel were all to easy 
 as your power with the force grew through the game it all got too easy. Multi-player mode was so 
 much off a let down i just gave up on it as the repetitiveness of the levels bored me.
  
  GRAPHICS: 8/10
  
  Graphics were hard to judge cause you have to remember this is only a handheld 
 console so dont expect to much from it. But saying that there were the only impressive thing about 
 this game with your force power being well presented and movement was good. The transition between 
 screens was a little slow but except from that i cant complain about the graphics.
  
  SOUND: 4/10
  
  Things dont get any better here as the same old tune haunts you all the way 
 through the game. The less said about this the better!!!
  
  VALUE: v10/10
  
  Well this is hard for me to actually comment on as i got this off E-Bay for 99p and for 99p i still 
 say its a bargain. If you were to buy this at the rrp its not the game it should be and not worth 
 the money.
  
  OVERALL: 5/10
  
  This game from the minute i opened it till the minute i throw it in the cupboard bored me. There 
 are many Star Wars title that actually deserve to be in an elite group of games with the Star Wars 
 name. If your a Star Wars fan and want a Star Wars title then your best bet is Lego Star Wars II 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: wmg1299
Rating: 5.1
Date: Sep 18, 2006 6:19 pm PT
Review:  Star Wars Episode III on the DS shows some signs of promise, but in the end amounts to just another 
 average movie-based game. There have been several quality Star Wars titles produced in recent years, 
 and I expected more from this offering from Lucas Arts. While many critics always jump on the chance 
 to unfairly bash any movie-based title, I feel that I have always given them a fair chance. I have 
 enjoyed many Hollywood or comic influenced titles (Spider-Man The Movie, Van Helsing, The Hulk: 
 Ultimate Destruction, Fantastic Four, etc) and given them high scores. That being said, this is 
 one of the weakest franchise based offerings I have ever played. Visually speaking, this game just 
 doesnt fit with the source material. Characters look as if they were designed by the artists from 
 the Leapfrog for a second rate plug-n-play educational game. The DS is capable of recreating high 
 quality N64 graphics, but the visuals in this game are much more reminiscent of the SNES. There 
 is some music in the game, but absolutely no spoken dialogue. This leads to a lot of glorified 
 subtitles displayed next to a still picture of the characters head. Console versions of this game 
 make excellent use of film clips as cutscenes, which added to their appeal. The DS version fails 
 to even use still photos from the film. While the DS is not nearly as powerful as the consoles 
 or the PSP, it is capable of much more than showed in this title. The combat style and gameplay 
 are fairly simple to learn, but seem out of place in the year 2006. Any gamer who played Double 
 Dragon or any Ninja Turtle game on the original NES will get flashbacks from this side-scrolling 
 beat-em-up. The action can be fun at times, but often winds up being very repetitive. Developers 
 attempted to use some combos in the combat, but the DS is not suited to them. Most combos are awkward 
 and unreliable at best. The DS button configuration serves to make much of the hacknslash action 
 physically painful to players thumbs. The fact that the touch screen capability was virtually 
 ignored adds to my disappointment with the control scheme in general. Normally, I would recommend 
 these types of games only to hacknslash gamers or fans of the films the game is based on. However, 
 hacknslash game fans will find the action dull and the controls frustrating. Fans of the movies 
 may be upset at the animated style of character design and the lack of any film footage. This game 
 just missed the mark and does nothing to make gamers feel they are being brought into the Star 
 Wars movie experience. However, the same game would be much more suited to the look and feel of 
 the new animated series. Young gamers (especially fans of the animated series) may enjoy the graphics 
 and gameplay. Episode III does make good use of the multiple playable characters, upgrades, and 
 unlockables to add replay value for gamers who either love this title or own few titles and must 
 get the most for their money. The DS version of Star Wars Episode III could not hope to compete 
 with the graphics and content offered in the console versions, and should have relied on gameplay 
 and the use of the touch screen. Lucas Arts failed to focus on the strengths of the DS, and instead 
 provided the most lackluster version of this title. The end result is a game that showcases SNES 
 level graphics and sound, and NGAGE level gameplay. I would recommend that adult gamers pass on 
 this one unless they absolutely need some sort of portable Star Wars fix. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Jedi_Master_Sam
Rating: 9.4
Date: Sep 5, 2006 5:43 am PT
Review:  While this game may be good on the Xbox, and other systems, it's the best on the DS. Even Gamespot 
 agrees with me.
  
  Game Play: Simple but good. The entire game is just a side scroller. You can walk to the left, 
 to the right, or up and down. You play as either Anakin or Obi-Wan and you chop up droids. Every 
 three or four levels, you fight a boss. You block the bosses attacks, then you attack. It sounds 
 simple, but in reality it's really fun.
  
  Also, only in the DS version, are space battles. They are added into the storyline every now and 
 then. But the main part of the space battles, is the multiplayer. You duke it out with up to three 
 of your friends in space or above ground on the planet surface. It's very fun but each of your 
 friends need to have a copy of the game each.
  
  Graphics: Sweet. The graphics of the main part of the game are clear and everything looks right. 
 The graphics look like they did from the Clone Wars cartoon series. The space battles are like 
 nothing I've ever seen before. You fly around in complete 3D and shoot at enemies and dodge obstacles. 
 The graphics are just awesome.
  
  Sound: Yet another Star Wars game, yet another perfect soundtrack. With the new ability to produce 
 excellent quality sound through the DS speakers, unlike the GBA, you get stunning sound. John Williams 
 score, blasters, lightsabers, everything is here and totally complete. It really gets you in the 
 mood for slicing up droids.
  
  Value: While I may know a lot of people who don't like this game, I know a lot more who do. For 
 a DS game I was very surprised. I'm going to have to soon realise that DS game normally are better 
 then I expect them to be.
  
  Rent or Buy: Buy. With such a good game why would you want to rent it. You'll just want to play 
 ti all the time. That and I still don't know where you can rent DS games anyway. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: redlazer2
Rating: 8.3
Date: Jul 27, 2006 9:27 pm PT
Review:  Star Wars Episode 3 Revenge of the Sith, is an awesome game that is a fun game to pick up and play. 
 The game play on this game is , fun and easy to learn and play, and playing space missions are 
 really fun! The graphics are basically gba graphics, except for space missions. The Sound track 
 feautures a lot of star wars music, and it turns ot pretty goood, lightsabers sound good too. The 
 only one big problem is that it's really easy to beat story mode. The levels are fun though, so 
 you'll probaly go backn to a few of them 
::::::

::::::
UserName: linkrul3s
Rating: 7.2
Date: May 29, 2007 10:02 pm PT
Review:  This game was an okay game which I am being a little bit too generous with the score. This game 
 was fun at first but then it got really boring after the first hour but I didn't 'cause I had already 
 beaten the game before I got bored (yes I am being sarcastic.) .
  
  Gameplay: The game is basically a hack and slash game with very few flying levels.
  
  Graphics: 
 The sidescroller portion is exactly the same as the GBA except the flying levels have okay graphics.
 
  
  Sound: The sound is great! The light saber and lasers sound really realistic.
  
  Value: It's worth a little bit of your time.
  
  Tilt: The tilt is okay. I guess...
  
  The 
 only reason to play this game is for it's really fun flying levels. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Spongemario
Rating: 7.1
Date: Jun 25, 2006 8:03 pm PT
Review:  You can either play as Obi-Wan Kenobi to find out why all of the clone troopers suddenly turned 
 against the Jedi, or you can play as Anakin Skywalker and go down the path into the Dark Side. 
 Both characters have different levels that branch out to give a view of both sides of this movie-game. 
 This game is a 2-D sidescrolling arcade fighter at the core. Pick a character and romp through 
 the levels defeating battle droids, troopers and weak Jedi. There's really not much to it. Also, 
 the game features 3-D space battles. You would think they would suck, but actually, the 3-D space 
 battles control very smoothly and they don't entirely suck. The graphics of the 3-D battles are 
 lacking, most everything is simply textured polygons, and unfortunately, explosions are in 2-D. 
 The 2-D portions look like a GBA game, because it is a GBA game. Ubisoft took the GBA version, 
 added touch screen control (select a powerful attack via touch screen) , and there you go. If it 
 wasn't for the space battles, this game would not really be worth buying. Sure, the single player 
 adventure is fun, but the fun dries fast. It's drained when you beat the game as both Anakin and 
 Obi-Wan. Fortunately, there's a bit of multiplayer in the game. Multi-Card play allows up to 4 
 people in 3-D dogfights. There's a bit of variety of ships, both old and new, which provide a bit 
 of fun. Bots can be added, too. Unfortunately there's like 8 maps to play on, only 2 are recognizable.
 
  The game's audio simply rocks. You'd think that Ubisoft would make MIDIs of the music, but in 
 reality, you're getting the real deal here. Even if it is coming out of DS speakers, the music 
 sounds just as good as ever. Only one thing: there's no music from Episode III whatsoever. Only 
 music from the other movies.
  The game does a decent attempt on telling the story. Most cutscenes are still artwork with a caption 
 explaining what is currently going on. Otherwise it's just characters "talking" (via text boxes) . 
 People who hasn't seen the movie and is playing the game might get a little lost, but who HASN'T 
 seen Episode III?
  
  If you buy this game, you'll probably only enjoy it until you beat it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TH3oHellAz
Rating: 4.8
Date: May 13, 2006 10:47 am PT
Review:  I want sure if i should have got this game or not. so in the end i decided to get it. (dont know 
 why) . at first it was quite fun, but after like 20 minuets it got boring and anoying. i startted 
 playing it with 1 of my friends at school, after that my other friends got a DS through the game (flying 
 mode only availabe for multiplayer) . But now when we look back at it comparing it to games like 
 MPH and MK it rubbish. and dont know why we played it.
  
  PROS
  -Fun for a couple of minuetes
  -Flyiing mode is pretty good multiplayer and with bots
  
  
 CONS
  -Lazy GBA graphics
  -Too easy
  -Vey short
  
  GAMEPLAY
  easy 2 button play
  
  GRAPHICS
  GBA graphics
  flight mode looks kinda good but looks very cheap in a way. nice 
 try i supose?
  
  SOUND
  Cool Star wars theme tune and stuff
  
  VALUE
  not worth it at all, BUT for my case if it was'ny for this game other games wouldnt be a fun for 
 multiplayer 
::::::

::::::
UserName: wee_ged_2005
Rating: 7.8
Date: Apr 16, 2006 12:08 pm PT
Review:  The game is ok but the DS version hasn't got th best graphics in the world if the graphics improved 
 maybe I would play it more often it took me 2 hours to complete it that just isn't good enoughit's 
 just too easy a bit of improvement in the difficulty and the game would get a great if the graphics 
 were better a superb and if the gamplay was better a perfect but overall the game is good the best 
 thing about the game was the spaceships they were top qaulity the overdrive wasn't that good you 
 didn't have that long to go fast without blowing up your ship. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: justiceboy13
Rating: 7
Date: Apr 4, 2006 12:30 pm PT
Review:  This is a pretty standard Star Wars game. The only difference is that it's on the DS. First of 
 all this is basically the same game as the GBA version, except with Rogue Squadron-like flight 
 missions thrown in occassionally. And there is a multiplayer flight combat mode. That pretty much 
 makes this game worth having. The graphics are HORRIBLE. At least on the 2d missions. on the space 
 missions there fine. The 2d graphics are the exact same graphics as on the GBA version. But graphics 
 aside, this is pretty decent. You can play as Anakin or Obi-Wan, and fly tons of ships. This game 
 is pretty decent, and if your a Star Wars fan with a DS, you should probably get this. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: EviliPodMan99
Rating: 7.8
Date: Mar 17, 2006 1:59 pm PT
Review:  It's an ok game, but not the best. It's graphics are horrible as well as it's point. You just can 
 be either Anakin or Obi-wan with a diffuculty of Jedi  something 
 else. You can get health and mana along with bonus (money) . You use your bonus to buy upgrades 
 for whatever character you are using. In multiplayer you drive a ship and shoot down your friends. 
 There is ever once in a while a boss. Then it's pretty cool because when your playing, you might 
 get a mission where you have to drive. The good thing about this game  
 THE ENDING! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: katman
Rating: 5.5
Date: Mar 1, 2006 4:23 pm PT
Review:  This is just not my type of game. There are just way too many combos of pushing buttons that are 
 way too small for my hands, and trying to remember what button does what to be any fun for me which 
 turns into a frustrating mess of a game. 
  
  The graphics and sound seem to be ok, but the gameplay is just not fun for me. I never made it 
 to the flying levels so I can't comment on that, what I saw so far was the same thing over and 
 over just harder and faster. Not fun for me.
  
  Based on the levels I played through, both as Anakin and Obiwon, there seems to be something here 
 for somebody who likes this side-scrolling game, but it's definitely not for me. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dalek301
Rating: 3.3
Date: Feb 28, 2006 10:27 am PT
Review:  7.3, that is an insult to gaming itself. Wow! It's Star Wars! That does not make it a good game, 
 which this isn't. My very first DS game and I was shattered at the waste of money. Firstly, the 
 charcters drawn look nothing like thier real-life counterparts. The buttons make the gameplay fiddly 
 and annoying, this is increasingly annyoing when you consider how unforgiving the gameplay is, 
 if you die you have to start the level again. Jump, no jump, no duck, damn, level 2 Start! The 
 sound includes the Star Wars score but it still sounds graty through the DS' super speakers. The 
 multiplayer Star Fighter game was the only joy i got from this, only playing by myself because 
 no one else had it, no wonder, this game is an insult to George Lucas and the nintendo DS, General 
 Greivous never looked so crap. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: secily
Rating: 6
Date: Feb 8, 2006 5:36 pm PT
Review:  there has been very few star wars games that translate to great console games, like super star 
 wars for the snes, umm nintendo 64 shadows of the empire, and the doom clones oh and the tie fighter 
 simulation games.
  well the problem is that its on the ds and well to be honest i personally think that they need 
 to stop translating movies to games and games to movies.
  i really do not like the star wars games that have been out recently.
  I think they need to keep 
 it either RTS or FPS, and no i think the knights of the old republic was nothing but knights of 
 the old bore snore fest. too many problems with the pc and xbox versions that made both the game 
 and sequel stink.
  As for the ds star wars ep 3, bleh just boring and really just dont buy it kids your wasting money 
 and just giving lucas more funds to make more terrible star wars. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: steff3121
Rating: 8.3
Date: Mar 20, 2006 3:13 pm PT
Review:  This is a difficult game to judge. I have to give kudos to the graphics, as I adore hand drawn 
 Anakin. Still, the fact that platforming elements are terrible is a bit of a downer. The combat 
 seems a bit primative, considering that you press a button to get a combo. Still, it's not a waste; 
 the multiplayer is solidly done, but it's mysterious why the GBA's version was left out. Even so, 
 this is a game that deserves some attention, while at the same time, keeping your expextations 
 low enough that you don't expect perfection. Even with all of these things, this is a solid game.
 
  As a side note, this is a much better game than the console version. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: crazy_ferret123
Rating: 4.2
Date: Jan 12, 2006 6:17 pm PT
Review:  thsi game gets repetitive. its like theres like 10 slashes. its so repetitive that i really dont 
 recommend this game at all. but there is a good part about it, the star battles. they are in full 
 3d and they have some above average animations. this is definently a game for the die hard star 
 wars fans. i dont suggest it for someone who is just ok about star wars (like me) . and i dont like 
 the music. for some reason star wars music just pisses me off. dont buy this game just rent it 
 were you can. you can rent it on GAMEFLY!!! alittle product placement there. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: darkside5001
Rating: 8.8
Date: Jan 9, 2006 12:25 am PT
Review:  This was one of the first DS games I have played, and man, is it AWSOME!
  
  Graphics: 9/10
  Due to the fact that this is the first, and only, DS game i've played its hard 
 to judge it. But I will say that the graphics were wicked. The 3D flying levels are the best i've 
 seen on a hand held console, and the one thing keeping me from giving it a big ONE-O is the fact 
 that its the only DS game i've played. Maybe sometime in the future i'll come back and edit this.
 
  
  Gameplay: 10/10
  This was definately an addictive game from start to finish. It holds a "not so unique" style of 
 gameplay that has a different feel to previous Star Wars games. Overall, a truely great experience.
 
  
  Overall: 8.7/10
  Apart from the games extreme simplicity, and the some times tedious levels, this game offers alot 
 of fun for the most part, and for extreme Star Wars afficianados this game offers not stop, flat 
 out fun. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: joshman940
Rating: 8.1
Date: Dec 30, 2005 2:22 pm PT
Review:  I like this game a little it is worth playing if you like very short games. It is a little hard 
 for kids between the age of 1-8 years old. If you are a star wars fan and you like easy games then 
 you should buy this game. If you are a kid between the ages of 1-4 dont buy it if you are between 
 the ages of 5-8 then rent it or borrow it from a freind. I got this game for christmas and I was 
 hoping to get animal crossing: Wild World but I got this I thought it would be fun but It got a 
 little hard then I stopped playing. The next day I beat the whole game and was done with it but 
 now I have not played it since December 27 2005. To tell the truth I think this game is just not 
 a good game but it does have good graphics. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: strkr241
Rating: 9.2
Date: Dec 29, 2005 12:01 pm PT
Review:  this has to be the only game i have played where the portable version is better than the console 
 version. its got challenges, its got thrills, its got game. its.. STAR WARS: REVENGE OF THE SITH. 
 Dun Duun Duuuun!!!
  
  although the graphics are exactly the same as the gba version... the addition of star-fighting 
 is a awsome idea. you will find yourself constantly doing the level select to go back to those 
 duels with the major characters like dooku and general grevious. the sound effects are well done 
 and the colouful graphics make this game an extra special one. shame that theres only two charaters 
 to play as, it would have been nice to play as yoda or darth vader. and it only took me six hours 
 to complete but remember... theres the skirmish mode against the computer so you can unlock all 
 those classic star-fighters.
  
  the only downside is that although it follows the story of revenge of the sith the film... it still 
 seems to lack the plot of the film. it feels like you have to see the movie 1st to understand the 
 game. i played the console version of this game and although it kept me ammused for a few hours, 
 it wasnt anywhere as fun as this version.
  
  try and get your pals to buy it also so you can play multiplayer. i keep trying to convince my 
 friends to buy it but they wont listen. i would do download play but ir is a multi-cart game. thats 
 another down side. 
  
  is it worth the money? YES IT IS. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: monkeytoes61
Rating: 8.2
Date: Dec 27, 2005 9:59 pm PT
Review:  Star Wars episode 3 was the type of game I was looking for. Mindless button mashing fun. But there 
 was one problem. As I inserted the game card and turned on the DS I was hoping for a 3d fighting 
 style fighting game (hadnt looked at screenshots see) . Wow. I thought I was playing an old arcade 
 machine. But alas the gameplay was pretty good. The thing that really blew me away was the space 
 battles. It really amazed me that they had these fantastic dogfights in fighters while the regular 
 levels are just a revisit to Segas Golden Axe. These space dogfights deserve a game of their own 
 (Frank Provo) . All together I have enjoyed this game and dont think of it as a waste of money. ma 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Emerging-XIII
Rating: 7.9
Date: Dec 23, 2005 4:57 pm PT
Review:  This game was ok, it had good gameplay, bad graphix, but not too bad, ok sound, good controls, 
 and a little replay value. 
  
  Gameplay: well it was fun while it lasted, although the boss battles sucked nuts. It added extra 
 fun with the flying missions and the multiplayer dogfights that you could have.
  
  Graphix: Simple and plain and not very impressive, they were exactly like the GBA graphix.
  
 
  Sound: Ok it wuz not sumthing that i really look at unless it absolutly sux. The music wuz ok 
 though.
  
  Final thoughts: If you are looking for a side scrolling/action/adventure game this is for you if 
 you have a ds. If your looking for sumthin that will just blow you away this is not the right game 
 for you. So ok game and a pretty good buy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jacash3492
Rating: 8.8
Date: Dec 22, 2005 1:09 pm PT
Review:  I have to admit, this was one of the funnest DS games I have played. It was not very long, but 
 you were supposed to defeat the game in all the difficulties and with both Anakin and Obi-Wan if 
 you wanted full credit to complete this game. The wireless play was okay but could have been better. 
 You only got to fight in your ship. You should have been able to battle on your feet with a bigger 
 selection of Jedi's and Sith's. Still the game was addictive and very fun. The graphics were really 
 confusing to me. When you were Anakin or Obi-Wan you were a 2-D character. But when you were in 
 a ship it was 3-D. They should have added the graphics from the PS2 and Xbox vesions of the game. 
 This game was way better than the PS2 and Xbox versions. It was more fun and kept me playing for 
 hours and hours. If your a Die Hard Star Wars fan and happen to have a DS, I would buy this game 
 or rent it. If you never liked Star Wars games you probably won't get into this one either. All 
 in all this is a great DS game to add to your game collection. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: peterandbeer
Rating: 9.7
Date: Dec 13, 2005 1:29 pm PT
Review:  When i first saw that Star Wars was going to be a side scroller i was sort of scared for the final 
 game. But then I picked it up and was delightfully surprised. This game lets you use the Jedi powers 
 extremely well. You can get upgrades to those powers by getting certain crystals. So it has a certain 
 RPG element to it. You are able to be Anakin Skywalker and Obi-Wan Kenobi. You will see familiar 
 bad guys in each episode and also some new enemies. But the best part of this game are the spacefighting 
 levels. They were done very well it is very wide open and there are training levels you can do 
 and it is also multiplayer. This game has many levels and replayability. It also gives you a good 
 sense of the lightsaber. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Superzone
Rating: 8.2
Date: Nov 29, 2005 5:28 pm PT
Review:  Let's face it, there really has never been a good handheld Star Wars game. Until now. Revenge of 
 the Sith for the Nintendo DS breaks that long curse. Revenge of the Sith is your basic side-scrolling 
 action game. But more fun than others of that catagory. The story mode is short, and I mean really 
 short. You'll have both Anakin's and Obi-Wan's stories completed in about 2 or 3 hours, and that's 
 only if you take your time. But there is some extra fun in that little DS cartridge of yours. There 
 is also an added 3D ship fighting multiplayer mode. You can choose from about 17 ships (mostly 
 from Episode III, but some others make an appearance) . Up to four friends can duke it out, or you 
 can blow up some bots. Revenge of the Sith is really fun, if it was a little longer and had a few 
 more things to do, it could have been a work of art. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: firebladedx
Rating: 9.1
Date: Nov 27, 2005 3:20 pm PT
Review:  Now this is a very intresting game. It combines the basic elements of any arcade classic with the 
 3D approach of rough squadron. When i first played this game i completed it in about 3 days, but 
 it was so fun i completed it in every game mode with both characters. Then i did it all again with 
 my powers at higher level so you just run round killing things (which hey, is always fun am i right-in 
 games anyway hahaha) . Then i got bored of it for a while with the arrival of my PSP, then one day 
 i read some cheats about new ships?? i mean u get more ships and melee matches which are sooo cool 
 and if your reading this you may already know im rambling like most people to fill the 100 rule.
 
  Eitherway if you a starwars or arcade game fan this is a deff for you.
  Hope you enjoyed my 10th review folks. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Freeride360
Rating: 5.3
Date: Nov 21, 2005 9:30 am PT
Review:  I don't like Star Wars Episode III: Revenge of the Sith it is a short game that is always the same 
 all the way through, It only gets harder when they add more enemies and they start to shoot more. 
 The SKIRMISH Mode is fun because you actually get to do something other than mindless side scrolling 
 killing, It can actually keep you amused for more than 10 minutes at a time. Overall I would definitely 
 not recomend this game unless you like side scroll killing. If your into retro gaming like me and 
 you have a megadrive (Genesis) you should get Streets of rage it is much more fun and 2-player. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Cool_Grant
Rating: 7.5
Date: Nov 13, 2005 3:47 pm PT
Review:  Star Wars for the DS is one to bring home with you. For one thing, its very good. It combines a 
 2D platformer with a 3D flyer.
  The graphics in this game are great. It has some levels that are cartoony 2D, and some that are 
 pretty smooth 3D.
  The sound is great. It has all the music from the movie, and all the lightsaber sounds that you 
 love.
  The gameplay is also very good. Its easy to pick up and play but its not the simplest. 
  Once 
 you finish go find a friend and play multiplayer. This is a fun way to play with friends if you 
 have any.
  The whole game is split up into two parts. Obi-Wans, and Anakins. They are both fun to play, but 
 Anakin's is harder. So if you have a DS, go pick it up. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gruntyking117
Rating: 8.2
Date: Nov 10, 2005 9:26 pm PT
Review:  The DS is good system. It has good games. This is one of them. 
  
  The game controls well. Very well. Every move feels intuitive, but it dosen't really use the touch 
 screen for much. The flight parts also have great control, but you can customize them, so that's 
 even better.
  
  The game may be mostly a GBA port, but it still looks nice. Ubisoft used an art styl that differentiates 
 itself from the movies. Think the Clone Wars cartoon plus a french cartoon and you're halfway there. 
 The flight missions are a beauty. Shadows actually relect from you craft! The framerate remains 
 60 FPS throughout the game, and never drops. 
  
  Sound lends itsel; f from ALL the movies EXCEPT Revenge of the Sith, which is odd. The sound repeats, 
 but the music is still John Williams, ableit repetive.
  
  Overall, it's a good game that resembles SNES games like Double Dragon and N64 games like Rouge 
 Squadron. If you're a Star Wars fan, you can't go wrong. If you're just a gamer (shame on you!) 
 then a rental or two should be fine to cover up the loose ends. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Super_Ky
Rating: 8.5
Date: Oct 23, 2005 5:41 pm PT
Review:  Star Wars Episode I I I for Nintendo DS is an awesome, fun game. The multiplayer is AWESOME! The 
 graphics are great in the multiplayer, in the single player, the graphics are just Game Boy Advance. 
 (I was hopeing it was going to be 3D, but. . .) The single player is fun but I wish it was 3D. 
 The sound is probally what I liked the best. It's the music from all of the Star Wars films. It's 
 worth it if you like to be entertained. I'd say to get it used because fourty dollars is a little 
 to much. (I got it new) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gamemaster5972
Rating: 7.5
Date: Oct 22, 2005 7:52 pm PT
Review:  like i said before, this gis a little short, it only took me 1 day to beat, but it was only because 
 i was so hooked to the game. this game isn't the best game that they could've produced but it's 
 good enough for me! yet again, don't you think that an 100 word minimum is a little much for a video 
 game review??? they really should start doing something bout this!!! but any way I'd have to say 
 this is the worst game I'veplayed for ds yet. ( yet again this is my personal opinion and isonly 
 and expression of my thoughts.) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: The_Consequence
Rating: 8.3
Date: Oct 21, 2005 8:30 pm PT
Review:  First off I'd like to say, graphics don't make the game. That said, I can proceed in saying that 
 the cartoony graphics suck. Overall it's great, though. The soundtrack is made up of remixed songs 
 from the movie, and the in-game sound is amazing, I just love the sound of laser fire in the morning. 
 The multi-card gameplay is very fun, you'll be hooked for hours. You don't even have to have multiple 
 carts to play multiplayer, there's a Skirmish mode to play where you are pitted against 3 bots 
 of which you choose the AI and ship for. And speaking of ships, there are quite a few, it's not 
 so many it'll make your head explode, but it's a nice number. You can also select the maps, of 
 which there is a nice number. the singleplayer mode is the only mode where you'll fight with Jedi. 
 You can choose from Anakin or Obi-Wan, Anakin of which has the cooler powers. Overall it's a game 
 you should get after Advance Wars: DS, Mario 64 DS, and Nintendogs. Or while waiting for another 
 game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Josoz
Rating: 9.6
Date: Oct 17, 2005 3:48 pm PT
Review:  This game has good graphics for a portable system game. If you look at rayman DS's graphics, this 
 is the graphic king of the Nintendo DS. It's multiplayer is great because space is 3-D and the ships 
 look very realistic. Let's move on to the gameplay. Both Jedi have many moves. The moves in this game 
 are not as wide ranged as it's xbox brother game. The moves are okay, you have anakin's fury moves 
 and obi-wan's fast moves. The sound is good, but remember this game is on a portable system. So, of 
 course, you will not here the chracters talking, but they show some affection along with the subtitles. The 
 value is great, so if you can find this game from $25-$30, buy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Space_Godzillla
Rating: 7.2
Date: Aug 19, 2006 3:53 pm PT
Review:  Star Wars Episode III: Revenge of the Sith
  Some people may think that the DS version of Star Wars Episode III is just a port of the gameboy 
 advance version. Actually its basicaly the same adventure and storyline with additions that'll 
 blow you away. Star Wars fans with a Nintendo DS look no further this is the best choice for you. 
 As you may already know the gameplay is rather quite "basic" yet really fun. You start out with 
 either a choice between Anakin or Obi-Wan. Who destiny will you choose? Well thats all up to you 
 as you can choose who you want to play as right when you begin.
  
  Now the game is a side-scrolling "beat them up" kind of game. You just basically destroy groups 
 of enemies that will sometimes gang up on you and proceed right to the next screen. This may sound 
 quite a bit boring but the thing is that the game is just so fun you'll be hooked for sure. You'll 
 eventually get into boss fights with tanls and duel with other jedis. Each character goes through 
 a set of 13 levels each with some added air-craft missions. Each character has their own set of 
 unique moves with the lightsaber and force attacks. These force attacks can be unlocked using a 
 certain set of attribute points as you finish each level. For example Anakin will use the force 
 choke while Obi-Wan will use the jedi mind trick. Also when you customize you do not only gain 
 these force powers but you will also have to expand on them makeing them ultimateley stronger. 
 Each character is fairly balanced in this way with their own set of combos for you to master. As 
 you progress you will also gain access to special attacks which can be activated by pressing a 
 certain combination of buttons, this is where the DS touch screen comes into affect. The touch 
 screen will display four different special attacks for each character and instead of using the 
 quick and easy combo you can just tap the move highlighted in the touch screen and it'll attack 
 for you.
  
  As you can see once you tap the specific move on the touch screen it'll attack for you.
  
  
 Now for the aircraft levels. They are simply astounding and one of the main reasons why the DS 
 version of the game really stands out from the Gameboy Advance version. The air-craft levels may 
 be the best part of the game. Don't let the screenshots lead you into thinking that the graphics 
 are blocky cause once they are in full motion you'll literally be satisfied with the whole game. 
 The air-craft levels are broken up between the single missions. Some have special tasks like making 
 your way to the jedi temple defending yourself from separtist's ships. The whole mechanic is great 
 and works well on the DS and the AI will be a challenge.
  
  
  Doing these certain missions will lead you to unlock certain ships that can be played in the multi-player 
 modes which are another part of the game that adds a ton of replay value to the game. Multi-player 
 is great and can be played against three other players through Wi-Fi. Or you can play against three 
 other bots whose skill level you can adjust making them more challenging. You can also choose your 
 settings for each match such as time, respawns, and kill limit. You will also be able to choose 
 different maps taking place in outer space or on planets such as Bespin or Hoth. There are also 
 many ships to use such as a Tie fighter, Jedi starfighter, or even an Arc 170 clone fighter. These 
 ships are already unlocked from the beginning as you progress like said before in the single player 
 missions you will also gain access to classic ships from the original trilogy such as the Millenium 
 Falcon, the Slave 1, or even Luke's X-wing. Each ship have their own set of sheilds, hulls and 
 weapons attribute points and even various paint schemes to choose from one containing the original 
 color of the ship. The controls work great here and will add intense dogfights. The touch screen 
 also adds something more to the battles as you can change from your radar to the statistics in 
 a match. Another great feature allows you to change your the area of your sheilds whether you want 
 it on full power n the front or in the back of the ship. You can just evenly distribute the sheilds 
 throughout the ship. There are also some additonal power ups for your ship whether it be speed 
 or weapon boost scattered throughout the map. You will be impressed and amused with this part of 
 the game for a long time.
  
  
  The Graphics for the single player are beautifully rendered in 2D and the charaters and enemies 
 move really nicely. As for the 3D air-craft missions and multiplayer is really mind blowing the 
 explosions are really unique and everything shows a great amount of detail. The framerate for both 
 single player and multiplayer is just perfect and you won't notice any problems with any of the 
 modes in this area of the game. Levels are made up of places seen in the film from Coruscant to 
 Utapau. You will also see great detail in every single player level.
  
  Sound is another fine addition to an already great game. What you will hear are scores from the 
 movies that sounded like they were ripped off the soundtrack itself and I'm not talking aout the 
 downgraded midi versions.
  
  Overall the games fun single player missions and entertaining multiplayer battles will keep you 
 coming back for more even if you do beat the game in a matter of days or less since the game isn't 
 really that long. But the graphics and gameplay are great and you shouldn't be discouraged to pick 
 up this title up. For a Star Wars fan or not this game like the evil General Grievous said will 
 make a fine addition to your collection.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Ninguy
Rating: 7
Date: Aug 21, 2005 2:00 am PT
Review:  With the massive line of Star Wars games coming out, some games of the bunch have been lost in 
 all the hype of all the others. Revenge of the Sith DS is one of those games, but don't jump to 
 conclusions. It comes as a pleasant surprise when you play the game.
  
  There are two playable characters in the main story; Obi-Wan and Anakin. Each of them follow the 
 same beginning but part ways a little of the way through. The game plays like an old Teenage Mutant 
 Ninja Turtle game, a side scrolling beat em up. 
  
  During the game, you will encounter familiar Star Wars foes in various Star Wars locations. You 
 can collect orbs throughout the mission to upgrade your Jedi Powers. Anakin has moves such as force 
 choke and life drain, Obi-Wan has healing and shielding techniques.
  
  Along the way, you will encouter boss fights (which give you special moves if you defeat them) 
 and 3-D space levels (such as flying through Coruscant and destroying enemy ships) . All of this 
 is good and all, but there is one problem; It's way too short. 
  
  Luckily, there is a multi player mode (if each player has their own game) with 3-D dogfights, similar 
 to a Rogue Squadron game. There is also Skirmish mode where you can face regular bots or Star Wars 
 character bots (if you beat one, you unlock their ship) .
  
  Overall, Star Wars Episode III: Revenge of the Sith DS is a fun little Star Wars game, even though 
 it doesn't have much originality. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sonicphoto
Rating: 7.7
Date: Jul 15, 2006 5:33 pm PT
Review:  Revenge of the Sith for The DS let's you play as Anakin and Obi-Wan in whicjh they start with the 
 same missions but then they seperate and get different missions. The DS version includes beat em 
 up levels and shooting spaceship levels. The combat of lightsaber is pretty sweet all of the cool 
 moves you can perform and destroying robots are easy and fun to destroy. The touch screen is use 
 to perform specail attacks when one of your gauge is full. The gauge is the one on the right of 
 the Anakin pic seen in the picture above, that red line. Those special moves let's you take out 
 enemies much more faster. Anakin has more faster attacks then Obi-wan. The boss battles are pretty 
 simple you have to protect yourself from the oppnent's attack then quickly attack him. Each character 
 goes to their own story: Anakin becomes the sith and destroy the jedis while Obi-wan goes t hunt 
 down Grievous.
  
  But what is really impressive here is the spaceship missions. Is actually 3-D flying in space. 
 Even the ship has some good details. Is basically shooting the enemes around. There is no big use 
 of the touch screen in this missions is basically just a radar to help you find the enemies. The 
 explosions are cartoony but a really nice style to it.
  
  Revenge of the Sith is indeed the best Star Wars game on a hnadheld you can find right now. Despite 
 his cartoon graphics is very well presented each level. Those who like star wars and beat em up 
 games will find some fun on this one. I just which the game was more longer on both Anakin and 
 Obi-wan.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Snoopy82
Rating: 8.9
Date: Jun 12, 2005 2:06 am PT
Review:  First lets get a few facts about the game:
  
  The main single player game is pretty much the same as the GBA version, the main differences being 
 -
  
  DS Version Has - The addition of a Rogue Squadron type multi-player game which can also be played 
 alone against bots (AI) , Real audio music, Slightly higher resolution graphics, touch screen feature 
 for activating Obi/Anakin's Focus and Fury moves.
  
  DS Version Has Not - The co-op mode found in the GBA Version
  
  GBA Version Has - a Co-op mode 
 allowing 2 players to play through special levels based around the clone wars and a Last Jedi Standing 
 mode where 2 players fight off an ever lasting amount of enemys until one player is left standing.
 
  
  GBA Version Has Not - The rogue squadron 3D dogfighting, not as good framerate ( can get some slowdown 
 when alot of action is going on) not as good sound - has midi music ( sfx are the same sounds though 
 the ds plays them back at a better bit rate and frequency) .
  
  Hope that helps anyone wondering what the difference is between the 2 versions, to sum it up - 
 if you don't care for the 3D dogfighting and have a friend who also has a gba and a copy of the 
 gba game then you may aswell save $10 and get the GBA version, or if you liked rogue squadron and 
 would rather play a souped up version of the single player 2d fighting then the ds version is totally 
 worth the extra money, I started with the DS version after hearing about the rogue squadron 3D 
 multiplayer which is great, but what took me by surprise was the 2D fighting that plays out like 
 a streets of rage type game using lightsabres and force powers to beat your way through most of 
 the scenes through episode 3.
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: SilverEdge000
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jun 12, 2005 1:16 am PT
Review:  Have you been looking for a new DS game? Mario got you looking for a new kind of game? Well here 
 it is, and it's one of the best DS games out there!
  
  I've played the console version of this game, and it really wasn't that great. It could last a 
 little while, but still not something I'd trade Forza or RE4 over...
  
  With that said, I decided to look into the DS version of this game. I saw that Gamespot gave it 
 a higher rating and I saw some of the 3D levels (which definently take control of the system's 
 hardware) . It looked very good so I decided, "Why not? It's only $30 and I loved the movie." So 
 I turn it on and right off the bat I notice something: this kinda seems like the one for Xbox. 
 But, boy, was I wrong.
  
  The lightsaber fights are much like the console one, but the controls are so much easier and it 
 seems even better knowing that you can actually take the game with you where ever you want. You 
 can use force powers such as push, pull, speed, heal, etc. etc.
  
  The lightsaber DUELS are very unique. You use you're block technique to either block high saber 
 attacks or low saber attacks and you attack the enemy when it's vulnerable. It may seem dumb, but 
 it tests the reflexes and is visually appealing. 
  
  Then you get to something that makes the game very good compared to the console versions: the starfighter 
 levels. They are in full 3D and the missions usually have you destroy enemy fighters on your way 
 to the next level. The graphical standpoint of the starfighter missions has some of the best visuals 
 on the DS (especially the explosions, just watch some of the gameplay videos) . The starfigher parts 
 are also the game's multiplayer which involve up to four players (who can be bots also if you don't 
 have enough people) , and there are a variety of starfighters (which most of them are locked but 
 can be unlocked in campaign mode) . These crafts range from the basic Tie fighter to the Millenium 
 Falcon.
  
  The campaign mode follows the movie very well (and is a big time spoiler if you have not seen the 
 movie) and you will recognize lines from the movie itself (for those of you who have seen it, and 
 if you haven't you need to go see it... now!) .
  
  Gameplay - 10: The whole game is non-stop action and never lets you down (except on the difficulty, 
 which is very challenging) . From the lightsaber battles to the starfighter missions, this game 
 is full of wonderful gameplay. Also at the end of each level you can customize which force powers 
 you want to upgrade and which attributes of your character (either Obi-Wan or Anakin who have different 
 branching storylines) . 
  
  Graphics - 8: Basic 2D graphics on lightsabering but full 3D flying missions! It's one of the best 
 looking games for the DS!
  
  Sound - 10: The "super-speakers" (as I call them) on the DS really help project John Williams' 
 masterful music and the lightsaber wooshes are very cool to hear and the flying missions have some 
 unique sounds too. But the music is what makes the sound so great.
  
  Value - 9: Two storylines and there is a multiplayer that you can play with by yourself against 
 challenging bots.
  
  Tilt - 9: It truely is a great game, but it doesn't deserve a 9.5 or anything...
  
  Overall: 
 One of the best DS games to date and is way better than the console version!
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: jdeurlein
Rating: 8.9
Date: Jun 4, 2005 2:51 am PT
Review:  There have been many movie based video games, but most of them are horrible. Star Wars Episode 
 3: Revenge of the Sith is one of the few movie based video games that is actually good. It is also 
 a game that proves that you don't need good graphics to make a good game. It has some of the greatest 
 gameplay I've ever seen in a side-scrolling game.
  
  If you've ever played one of the old beat 'em up games like Streets of Rage, then this game should 
 feel quite familiar to you. You can walk aroud going left, right, up, and down. The basic concept 
 of the game is to proceed through the level, but as you do that, you are attacked by the well know 
 Battle Droids from the Star Wars Movies. After you clear a section of all of it's enemies, you 
 then proceed through the level and the process repeats itself as you fight enemies. The enemies 
 get tougher as you progress through the game.
  
  One of the best parts of the game is when you have a "Duel" with one of the bosses. Basically, 
 in a duel, you can only move back and forth. You must block your enemy's attack and then counter 
 attack to do some damage. It gets a little more complex as you duel more and more bosses. 
  
  When I played this game, I was quite impressed with how the force powers work. Of the two characters, 
 Obi-Wan Kenobi or Anakin Skywalker, each one of them has their own specific force powers. Obi-Wan's 
 force powers are more defensive because he is a light side character. Examples of his force powers 
 are Force Shield, Force Heal, and Jedi Mind Trick. Anakin's force powers, however, are more offensive 
 because he is more toward the dark side of the force. Examples of his force powers are Lightsaber 
 Throw, Force Rage (which increases his attack power for a certain amount of hits, depending on 
 what level the force power is) , and Force Choke. Both Obi-Wan and Anakin have the force powers 
 Force Push and Force Pull. Force Push and Force Pull can be used to interact with objects in the 
 enviroment as well as attack the enemies.
  
  Throughout the levels, you collect Customization Points, which are used to increase the level of 
 a selected force power. You get Customization Points by finding them in certain parts of the enviroment 
 and by performing "Jedi Style" and "Speed" bonuses. 
  
  This game makes use of the DS's touch screen by allowing you to use special attacks by touching 
 it on the touch screen. For Obi-Wan, they are called Focus attacks, and for Anakin, they are called 
 Rage attacks.
  
  One other thing that makes this game great is the "dogfights". Dogfights are battles that take 
 place in the spaceship, where you fly around and shoot other fighters down. Dogfights are in 3-D 
 and offer a LOT of freedom to the gameplay.
  
  For anybody who's ever played a beat 'em up game, I recommend this game. I also recommend this 
 game to any Star Wars fan. It's your choice if you decide to play the game before the movie, but 
 you will notice that a lot of dialog and events that happen in the game actually happen in the 
 movie. I played the game and then went to see the movie and it felt like I had seen it tons of 
 times before, so this game has a LOT in common with the movie. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: flamingskullz
Rating: 8.4
Date: Jun 1, 2005 3:06 pm PT
Review:  Usually movie games are all a waste of money like monster . inc but star wars episode 3 is a pleasant 
 exception. unlike episode 2 this game is not a boring side scrolling beat em up with 2 attacks 
 but has many combos flashy moves to pull off which will put a grin on your face.
  
  Gameplay: there are some good combos to pull off. playing this will remind some people of final 
 fight on the GBA which is agood thingbut all the levels are very simialar except for a different 
 backround and more enemies being thrown at you , the duels are very challenging and need timing 
 and skill and the flying sections play like rogue leader on the cube.
  
  Graphics: The side scroling bits ( most of the game ) are just recycled from the GBA game which 
 is a bit of a disapointment but flying sections are very impressive , they look a bit like the 
 N64 version of star wars rogue squadren.
  
  Sound: Amazing on the main menue there is music from the movie and throughout the game each level 
 has the sounds from the film. the only downside is that there isnt spoken word.
  
  Value: Although the main game isnt too long there is always master difficulty to unlock and loads 
 of starships to use in dogfight mode which you can use against AI opponents or against mates.
 
  
  Tilt: Overall this is worth buying and i guerentee you will have fun.... unless you are an extreme 
 critic because this game is not perfect. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: thetravman
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jun 1, 2005 3:07 am PT
Review:  The GBA version shares the same graphic engine, and gameplay controls with its brother the DS, 
 but with one and tremendoes difference, 3D starcraft missions. The graphics were great, but not 
 perfect in 3D, and the gameplay was quite fun. Multiplayer worked very well using the starcrafts. 
 Teaming up, or be by yourself to shoot down any ship that is in sight of ur screen The 2D mission's 
 graphic were alright. Very colorful, and smooth actions. Making combos to take down enemies with 
 style was the most fun part about it. Being more stylish can get u bonus points to upgrade ur characters 
 stats. Beating the stage very quick can get u little bonus points to also upgrade ur character, 
 and same as some other bonuses laying around thoughout the entire stage. I am a fan of the original 
 Star Wars music, and alot has been put into this game. Which is awesome.
  
  The game has two totally different unique stories, that feature Anakin, and Obi-wan. Anakin slowly 
 turns to the dark side, and Obi-wan hunts for General Grievous. Each story has about 15 short missions 
 each. 6 are 3D starfights, and rest is 2D side scrolling action. 3D missions has u flying a starcraft 
 to either take down baddies skyhigh, destroy certain objects, or fly though obsicles. 2D has waves 
 of enemies charging at u in great numbers. To take them down, of course, use ur lightsaber to slice 
 them down, use 6 different force attacks (some force powers dont damage enemies) , or objects using 
 the force. Some throwable objects are broken droid parts, rocks, or even bombs.
  
  This game is certainly a must buy for all star wars fans. But it will be alot better if friends 
 bought the same game with u, trust me. Extra $10 is well worth it.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Yagami-Iori
Rating: 8.6
Date: May 14, 2005 12:54 am PT
Review:  This is, as most know a direct port of the GBA game. And I tell you, that the GBA beat-em up style 
 gameplay is fricking AWESOME. It reminds me of the SW; ROTJ for the SNES, but with much improved 
 force usage & being able to move up & down the screen. But the thing that makes this game worth 
 the 10 dollars over the GBA version... the 3D dogfights. At first I thought "Oh wow, an extra throw-on... 
 THAT'S worth it", it really is actually QUITE worth it. Between the excellent 2D areas & the ship 
 battles, this game is a definate BUY!
  
  Graphics- 5/9- The GBA graphics are not an upgrade from GBA at all, therefore only deserve a 5, 
 but the 3D battles are nice (except for 2D explosions) and worth the 9... 7 overall
  
  Gameplay- 9- The whole game is SO FUN! If you pick this game up, you won't be putting it down for 
 a while.
  
  Sound- 8- A great conversion of the SW soundtrack into the game
  
  Value- 8- As I said, the dogfights MAKE it worth the extra 10 bucks to get
  
  Tilt- 9- This 
 is a game even non-Star Wars fans should appreciate 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Fimbrethil
Rating: 8
Date: May 13, 2005 1:13 pm PT
Review:  In the beginning, you choose the path of Anakin or Obi-Wan. Both fit on the same save-game, of 
 which there are three. Of course, for every difficulty mode (Padawan, Jedi, Master) . During the 
 game, some quick explanations are given, for the various attacks. There's great light saber action 
 involved, with additional Skywalker Sound, so all the neat "roger roger" and "zzm" are included. 
 With the light saber you can attack high, medium and low. In combination with jumps and sprints, 
 this offers a good arsenal of attacks, but there is of course the Force as well. Six Force moves 
 are done using the R button. When using, a blue bar on the top of the screen is decreasing, so 
 be sure to use "push", "pull", "heal", and "choke" in the right way. If this isn't enough, there 
 are also four "rage" (for Anakin) or "focus" (for Obi-Wan) moves to be learned after the boss-fights. 
 This bar is filled by hitting enemies (Anakin) or dodge shots (Obi-Wan) .
  
  A nice replay value to this is the rating for every level. True masters will go for a 100% rating 
 for every mission. This part of the game is really fun and it's a shame there isn't a co-op mode 
 included for additional fun.
  That fun is given though, in an unexpected way. When playing Anakin, some flying missions will 
 occur. He must bring senator Palpatine to the Jedi Council, for example. These missions could be 
 seen as some sort of practice for the multi player mode. They can be selected from the main menu. 
 
  In the main menu is also another option, besides from turning the music on or off. Multiplayer 
 mode is a great feature for this DS game. Four players can link up and start a battle, too bad 
 it isn't single carded, so every player needs his or her own copy of the game. Of course, a skirmish 
 battle is also included. In the main game, you can unlock several ships you know from the movies, 
 "X-wing", "Slave I" etc. The ships all have different configuration, some are speedy, others have 
 great shields or torpedoes. Be sure to pick the right one for your style of flying! With a lock 
 on function, rockets are fired. Also, the environment plays a great role, you really don't want 
 to crash into a building or meteor.
  
  To sum it up, this is truly a fun game. The 2D levels are full of enemies, and the backgrounds 
 hold some surprises as well. The animations are good, as well as the various attacks and moves. 
 The cartoony look is a personal thing, I for one think it is a good change in the regular Star 
 Wars franchise. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Vinstigator
Rating: 7.5
Date: May 13, 2005 12:11 pm PT
Review:  This is one of the DS's better games. I thought the 2D side scrolling levels would be boring but 
 they are actually quite good. But since most of the game is side scrolling missions, it will get 
 a little repetitive after a while. The 3D space combat sequences change up the pace a little. There 
 are only about 3 space shooting levels and they're pretty easy even on Jedi mode but they are definitely 
 the highlight of this game. No wait, the highlight of this game is its multiplayer mode! Up to 
 four people can battle it out in any space vehicle they choose ranging from the X-Wing to the Millennium 
 Falcon (of course you have to unlock those ships first) ! The only downfall is each person has to 
 have a copy of the game. But if you have no one to play against, you can have 3 other bots fill 
 in instead. And it's just like an online game, just with less people.
  
  If Han Solo kills you it will say "Vince was fragged by Han Solo" on everyone's screen. And the 
 best part is you can play on teams! Just think of it as Star Fox 64 without the U-Turn or Somersault. 
 You can lock on to your enemies and fire a homing missile, you can boost and brake, upgrade your 
 laser, and if you've been hit you can adjust your shield using the touch screen (either move your 
 shields to the front or the back. If you're getting shot at from the back then you'd put most of 
 your shield power in the back. If you're getting shot at from the front then move them to the front. 
 If you're getting shot from both the front and back then normalize your shields so each side has 
 an even amount of defense) . The main game is really short. In all there are 13 levels. I actually 
 beat this game in about 2 hours on Jedi mode. None of the bosses gave me any trouble except the 
 final duel with Anakin. But that actually only took me a few tries once I learned how to dodge 
 his power moves.
  
  There is some replay value though. If you've beaten the game with Obi-Wan, you can go back and 
 play through the game, but this time as Anakin! Of course you could also do it the other way around. 
 Play as Anakin then after you beat it, play as Obi Wan. And once you beat the game on Jedi mode, 
 you unlock the hardest difficulty level in the game. So if you thought the game was too easy (like 
 me) maybe this will make it a bit more challenging. Each character has a different set of moves 
 (Obi-Wan has light force moves while Anakin uses Dark force moves) and each character goes a different 
 route so you'll see the story from each character's viewpoint. You can also pull off some cool 
 lightsaber moves. You can use the force to push an object and knock out an enemy or pull them towards 
 you and execute a devastating combo. The lightsaber battles are surprisingly well done. when you 
 fight someone with a lightsaber you can block high or low then when their guard is down you can 
 start attacking them with combos. And another cool feature is you can deflect lasers back at the 
 person who's shooting you (Anakin can also deflect lasers with his lightsaber but it's much harder 
 to pull off) .
  
  The graphics are pretty good. But since it's a straight conversion of the GBA version, they're 
 kinda disappointing since I know the DS is capable of so much more. The 3D space missions on the 
 other hand look excellent and are very similar to the N64's smash hit "Star Wars: Shadows of The 
 Empire". The sound is another highlight in this game. I suggest you plug some speakers into your 
 DS because the music is awesome! Most of the songs from the different Star Wars movies are in this 
 game, including "Duel of The Fates" (which plays on the final level when you face Anakin/Darth 
 Vader) . So all in all this is a great game. My only gripe is that it's too short. But since the 
 multiplayer mode is so fun, I think it can be overlooked. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DBZAddicted
Rating: 9.3
Date: May 13, 2005 4:25 am PT
Review:  I didn't think the game would be this good, but this game was really impressively done. 
  
  Gameplay: Seriously, I thought it would be like the same-old beat'em up and nothing special, but 
 I was totally wrong. the game goes pretty smoothly and force power is easy to use as well. Seriously, 
 I really think that I'm so glad that I bought this game as an action game fan. 
  
  Graphics: Uh well, graphics are kinda like GBA graphics, but still the characters move smoothly 
 and I think that's all it gets. 
  
  Sound: Traditional Starwars sound effects (lightsabers, force, etc) and music. If you are a Starwars 
 fan like me, then you won't have anything to say for this part!!!
  
  
  Conclusion: This game is well made and it's worth every single penny. But one bad thing would be... this 
 game is kinda short. 
  
  But you still will love it so much. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: coltACP
Rating: 6.3
Date: May 12, 2005 11:50 am PT
Review:  I enjoyed this game for the four hours it took to complete both characters stories and it offers 
 some sound 2D side scrolling fun. The sound in this game is really good with exceptional qaulity 
 coming for the ds speakers (even better with headphones) , however some of the sound clips of music 
 are too short (vaders march in credits for one) . The added ds features of 3D space combat are quite 
 fun but the graphics are not up to what the ds is capable of (not as good as n64 rogue squadron) , 
 this part of the game was dissapointing but its an alright edition if a little underused (six missions 
 plus skirmish-should really have put more emphasis on it and ungraded the graphics engine) . Although 
 the actual 2D combat is fun its simply a higher res port of the gba game, without the two player 
 co-op an adversarial features. This is very dissapointing as the ds is capable of so much more (full 
 3D would have been impressive) . Also the length of the game is rubbish value for money, although 
 it does have some replay value (takes an extra couple of hours to beat it on jedi master setting 
 and unlock all the ships for multiplayer) . All in all this is a fun game but that doesnt make up 
 for the lack of use of the hardware its on, being a port of the gba version with a modest space 
 combat engine bolted on for wireless multiplayer, which to me is not what the ds is about-its about 
 making a different perspective on gaming and making your emmersion into that experience satisfying. the 
 only use of ds features is wireless and a modest use of touch screen for special moves. Perhaps 
 saber controled stylus action and 3D graphics would have made this worthy but its just a reasonable 
 2D side scroller that could have been much more on ds. Lack of effort on developers part. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: warcraftguy321
Rating: 9.4
Date: May 10, 2005 9:03 pm PT
Review:  One day while browsing the GameSpot DS area I came across Star Wars Episode 3: Revenge of the Sith 
 for the DS. I could see it was a 2D side-scroller with 3D space battles. The main thing that got 
 me interested was the space battles because I was a big fan of Rogue Squadron for the Game Cube 
 and I thought this looked like it. Well, the day finally came when this game was out in stores.
 
  
  Driving home from my local Target I began to wonder what the game would be like. I expected that 
 the space battles would be the best part of the game and that the side-scrolling part would be 
 something I would just play through while taking a break from the space battles. When I got to 
 playing the game at home I found it was about the opposite of that.
  
  I eagerly opened the game and plopped it into my DS and started playing. I first tried one of the 
 space battles and thought it was very good, furthering my thinking it would be the best part of 
 the game. However, once I tried out the single player part, I realized I might of been wrong. Right 
 from killing my first few battle droids I realized that this was great and absolutely fun as hell. 
 The space battles ended up being what I played just to shoot some stuff inbetween a few of the 
 single player levels.
  
  Gameplay: 10/10
  Very, very, very fun gameplay. Some parts I got a little frustrated by during master mode because 
 I would have to do it multiple times but its very fun. One of the best side-scrollers I have ever 
 played and probably the Best DS game out to date.
  
  Graphics: 7/10
  The one thing I think could of been a little better in this game. The 2D stuff is pretty good but 
 in the 3D flying most of the textures are really bad. This is probably just because they took so 
 much data up with the 2D and sound but I would of liked to of seen better.
  
  Sound: 10/10
  The sound in this game is very good and sounds great over the DS speakers. The 
 music from the movie goes very well in this game and fits in with each mission. The lightsabers 
 and blasters actually sound like lightsabers and blasters too!
  
  Value: 9/10
  If you have a DS I think this game is worth getting. The game length is about 2 hours for each 
 Different character and 4-5 if you include playing through on master difficulty which seems just 
 right for a side-scroller. I have played for about 7 hours including multiplayer against bots and 
 once my friends get this I think it will give me a lot of gameplay. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: neaytssay
Rating: 9.9
Date: May 9, 2005 11:41 pm PT
Review:  If your like me, than you would prefer the console version, but don't have a PS2 or Xbox (and I'm 
 sorry, but I don't have a review for the console versions) , or you just want a new portable game. 
 Well, the Episode III game for DS is the best out so far. The depth of the game may lack, but there 
 is plenty of fun and replay value packed into this package.
  
  It may look the same as the GBA version, but it adds something new that the GBA version doesn't 
 have, 3D ship levels. May I say, that the screen shots make it look bad, but the graphics blew 
 me away when I played it and it was fluid with no slow down. The ship levels are 3 per character, 
 which adds up to 6 ship levels in all. But, there is something that will keep you playing the ship 
 levels rather than those... Multiplayer! Yes, you can have dog fights with your friends, yet they 
 each need a game card. Or, you can just go against computer AI players, which, have good AI. There 
 are a lot of ships to unlock, and a babble of different courses to play on. Each ship has its own 
 stats, so it goes into detail very nicely. Choosing paint for your ship is also a nice touch.
 
  
  Let me start off with graphics. Some people seemed upset with the 2D cartoon look of this game, 
 and how it looks the same as the GBA version, but that is definitely nothing to worry about. The 
 game runs very, very smoothly with absolutely no slow down. The characters are well defined and 
 the environments are great looking. The game has an array of baddies, and the characters, such 
 as Jedi and Sith, especially look great. The cartoony look may not be your style, but it looks 
 so good it's hard to hate.
  
  Next, sound. Ahh yes, Skywalker Sound. Need I say more? Just in case, I will. All the great lightsaber 
 sounds and blaster sounds right from the films. You'll surely remember the sounds from the lazer 
 "bangs" to the droid "roger roger"s. Skywalker Sound is the company that makes the sound for the 
 movies, so I think you have nothing to worry about. The music is all live orchestra and the music 
 is the music you will hear from the movie (and no, it's not the same 2 songs repeated or something, 
 so don't worry) . The only thing I can really think of as a downside to sound is no voice acting, 
 and, well, maybe the little bleeping noise that happens when a character talks and the text appears, 
 which shouldn't be a problem.
  
  Value. Well, right now, it is 40$, unless your reading this much later, so if the price has gone 
 down, get it and stop reading this section of the review, other wise, read on. The value of the 
 game is a little pricey. If you are thinking between this one and the GBA version (30$) , the extra 
 10 bucks is easily worth the ship levels. The game may be a bit pricey, considering its only 10$ 
 from the console version, yet it is the best DS game to date. So, it's worth the money, its just 
 comparing it to the console version that's an issue (but don't think twice about getting the GBA 
 one or this one! Get the DS version)
  
  Last but definitely not least, gameplay. The gameplay is a hack and slash. Yes, you may think you 
 do nothing but button smash, but there is much more to it than that. Obi Wan has 3 kinds of light 
 saber moves (up, middle, down) , 6 kinds of force powers, and 4 special attacks. The same goes for 
 Anikan, but he has different force powers, and different special attacks, which you learn through 
 lightsaber boss duels, or LBD. LBD's are really fun, and take strategy. Each boss has their own 
 set of moves, and special attacks, and if they're Jedi or Sith, force moves. Each character meets 
 4 bosses, and both Anikan and Obi Wan face Count Dooku, and each other. Also, after you get through 
 a level, you can build to your character (add to their strength, force bar, and health bar) . Blocking 
 attacks is tricky, and same with blocking pistols (this is something you MUST master!) . Also, there 
 are three modes of difficulty, Padawan, Jedi, and Master. You unlock master after you beat the 
 game on either of the first 2 difficulties with both characters. I already went over ship levels 
 (2nd paragraph) ... Ahh yes! SPOILERS! If you don't want spoilers, wait to pick this up, but other 
 wise, go and do yourself a favor and get this game.
  
  Overall, this game is fabulous. The game delivers great 2D and 3D graphics with no slowdown, yet 
 you may not be your style. Next, the sound is excellent and professional, yet no voice acting let 
 me down a little. Thirdly, the game may be a bit expensive, but the extra 10 bucks is worth the 
 ship levels over the GBA version. So, go pick up this game, you won't regret it. It's the best 
 DS game to date.
  
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
