-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Star Wars: The Force Unleashed
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/ds/action/starwars2007/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 Force abilities feel powerful.
 Very interesting plot.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 Implementation of Force abilities feels limiting.
 Too easy.
 Unimpressive visuals.
 Poor sound design.
 Only around four hours long.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Sep 15, 2008
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 5.5
Critic Score: 6.0, 8 Review (s)
User Score: 6.1, 145 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: LucasArts
Developer: n-Space
Genre: Action
Date: Sep 16, 2008
ESRB: Teen

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
The Force feels quite leashed in the DS version of this Star Wars action game. 

  The concept behind Star Wars: The Force Unleashed is undeniably great. You're granted a host of 
 extremely powerful Force abilities and set free to use them to your heart's content, wreaking beautiful, 
 Force-fueled havoc in a galaxy far, far away. But that concept is compromised on the DS; youll 
 notice the games limitations more than its freedoms.  

  The storytelling in The Force Unleashed is lackluster, with not a word of voice acting and only 
 occasional use of cutscenes. All of the dialogue is conveyed through the use of character portraits 
 and text. But even told in this uninspired fashion, the game's story is quite gripping. After the 
 introductory level in which you play as Darth Vader himself, you'll take control of his secret 
 apprentice, code-named Starkiller, traveling the galaxy and slaughtering Jedi at Vader's behest. 
 But before all is said and done, the tale takes some dramatic turns. To say too much about it would 
 be to ruin the surprises it has in store, so suffice it to say that the apprentice's journey is 
 a compelling one, both on a personal and canonical level.  

           Judge it by its size you should not. No match for you this rancor is.      

  All of 
 the action in The Force Unleashed takes place on the top screen of the DS, while the touch screen 
 has "buttons" for your six basic actions: jump, saber attack, saber throw, Force grip, Force push, 
 and Force lightning. You move your character using the control pad (or the face buttons, for southpaws) 
 and trigger your actions using the touch screen. It's an effective, easy control scheme that makes 
 using your Force powers a snap. Unfortunately, some powers are barely worth using, since others 
 are so overpowered. Even powered up to maximum strength, saber throw feels quite weak, while your 
 Force push is strong enough to get you past nearly everything the game throws at you.  

  Level design is a bit uneven. The game starts strong, with a full-scale Imperial invasion of the 
 Wookiee homeworld of Kashyyyk. Here, AT-ATs menacingly march on Wookiee villages, and TIE fighters 
 swoop in to blast your enemies to smithereens. The game ends strong, too, with a final level that 
 makes inspired use of what may be the most famous Star Wars location of all. But in between, despite 
 their wildly varying appearances, there are a lot of similarities shared by most of the game's 
 levels. Whether on Felucia, teeming with life, or on the junk world of Raxus Prime, the levels 
 fall into a pattern of narrow, enemy-filled corridors punctuated by occasional wide, enemy-filled 
 spaces. It all starts to feel quite humdrum before too long.  

  The Force Unleashed is a very easy game. Even before leveling up any of your abilities, you're 
 so powerful that you can cut through the opposition like a hot knife through butter. Even the powerful 
 Jedi bosses pose little threat until the game's final battle; you can make short work of most of 
 them by doing nothing more than repeatedly swinging your saber. As you progress, you'll unlock 
 Force combos, which are performed by dragging the stylus across two or more icons. Dragging the 
 stylus from Force grip to saber attack, for instance, pulls an enemy toward you and impales him 
 on your saber. It's a good idea, and many of these combos are fun to use for their sadistic charm, 
 but they don't serve much practical use. You can easily get through the game without relying on 
 them much at all.  

  The biggest problem is that it fails to create a sense of freedom, of unleashing you to use the 
 Force to fulfill your own whims. Time and time again, you'll come across traps that you can spring -- stormtroopers 
 standing dumbly next to a pile of logs, droids hanging out under rickety platforms -- and these all 
 too frequent situations make the game's levels feel artificial, as if they were designed entirely 
 around your powers (which, of course, they are) . You'll feel like a rat in a maze, pushing all 
 the buttons that are there for you to push but never getting to exercise your own creativity. And 
 as strong as your powers are, your control over them is very limited. You can send enemies flying 
 with Force push, but you can't send them flying into another foe, or control where they go at all. 
 The game certainly makes you feel powerful, but it never makes you feel liberated. Quite the opposite. 

  Visually, The Force Unleashed is mostly unimpressive. The apprentice animations are graceful and 
 include some pretty cool lightsaber moves. On the other hand, many enemies are too blocky and undefined 
 to bear much resemblance to their cinematic counterparts, and you'll frequently see things that 
 break the illusion, like enemies passing through objects or laying down in midair to die. The camera, 
 which you have no control over, often presents a poor view of the action. Enemies will fire at 
 you from offscreen, and not being able to see your foes as you Force push them to their deaths 
 takes some of the fun out of it. The sound design is considerably worse than the graphics. The 
 music is made up of classic Star Wars marches, but they're not among the most rousing of Star Wars 
 compositions to begin with, and when you're hearing them for the umpteenth time, they're positively 
 tiresome. The sounds of saber swinging and blaster firing are pure Star Wars, but you'll hear the 
 same death cry from nearly every stormtrooper, the same plaintive wail from nearly every Wookiee. 
 A particular type of Felucian makes one of the most grating noises you're likely to hear in a game, 
 and they repeat it every single time you strike them. It's almost enough to make you want to not 
 kill them. Almost.  

           Becoming one with the Force is simply a matter of remembering which irregularly-shaped 
 button does what.      

  The Force Unleashed is quite short, clocking in at around four hours, and there's little to bring 
 you back for more. There are two endings, and your second time through you can use any of the costumes 
 and lightsaber crystals you previously unlocked -- but these have no impact on the gameplay itself. 
 The game's two local multiplayer modes don't bring much to the package, either. Free-for-All, a 
 straightforward deathmatch for up to six players, feels sloppy and chaotic, and the one-on-one 
 Force Battle mode isn't much better. The game's mechanics just don't translate very well to multiplayer 
 action.  

  Even in its obviously compromised form on the DS, there's a kind of morbid glee inherent to the 
 game's concept. It's fun to impale Jawas on your lightsaber, or Force push stormtroopers to their 
 deaths in the beam of a truly massive laser. But the enjoyment is constantly offset by the game's 
 lack of freedom. The Force Unleashed feels constraining rather than liberating, which is especially 
 odd in a game with the word "unleashed" in the title. If you can play this game on any other platform, 
 you should do so. You'll find that the Force is stronger with them.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (16 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: earthwormjim11
Rating: 9.5
Date: Feb 4, 2009 6:34 pm PT
Review:  I loved this game from the moment I played it!
  I cant stop playing it, it's so addictive! The gameplay is great, battling hoards of different 
 enemies from stormtroopers to felucians.
  The combo system works great with the ds, linking together
  different abilities to form awsome 
 combos.
  The only problem I have is that they should've made multiplayer
  single card- download play. It makes it much easier.
  What makes this game so compelling is the 
 music!
  John Williams soundtrack makes this game so much better!
  I noticed that this game is basically just the 360 and ps3 versions
  on a portable. With enemy 
 health bars, combos, and the reverse grip,
  this feels like the same thing!
  Not that its a negative thing though. 
  If you're a real star wars fan, and you have a ds.
 
  I really recommend this game to all of you!
  It's almost perfect for me, except for the multiplayer bit. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: KAMKA-Z
Rating: 7
Date: Jan 26, 2009 5:04 pm PT
Review:  The game was fun but it didn't take very long. It seriously only took me three and a half hours 
 to finish the entire story line. It's probably a lot longer on the PlayStation/ Xbox versions. 
 The graphics were okay, not the best and the story itself was pretty solid. I like how you get 
 to choose your path in the end: take revenge on Vader or face the Emperor. That was pretty cool. 
 The lightsaber fights were waaaaaaaaaaaaaaayyyyy to easy and could be made more difficult. All 
 in all though, it was a really fun game. You have to at least play it twice just to try the two 
 outcomes at the end. If it were longer and harder, I'd give it a higher rating but alas, it is 
 not so. It's fun to just play when you're bored and I'd recommend it to anyone who enjoys Star 
 Wars as it adds an interesting twist on the time period between Episodes 3-4. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Faithbringer
Rating: 6.5
Date: Jan 21, 2009 4:09 pm PT
Review:  I'm a fan of the Star Wars franchise for some time, since the Jedi Knight release on PC to be more 
 accurate, and I played many games of the series, some of them really put up to the spectations 
 others.... not that much. Anyways Force Unleashed come to many plataforms and did some job on DS. 
 Lets get over on it:
  
  Graphics 7/10: The game's engine is quite interesting for the DS standards you see the good potential 
 of it in the very early stage of the game, making good amends especially on background texture, 
 that is quite good-looking and feels indeed alive in the SW universe. The characters have been 
 well designed and looks good and well shaped, specially some in-game bosses that are "giants" and 
 makes great appeals. Unfortunally many of the textures on some levels have been endless repeated 
 making them somehow confusing even if the game itself is straight foward, what makes a drawback 
 but neverless still makes fair goodlooking.
  
  Sound 5/10: This could have a better workout, since the characters in the game doesn't have a speech (they 
 use the good and old dialogue boxes instead) , what frustrates compeared to other (even in "better" 
 ports like the PSP) specially since the the release of Jedi Alliance that puts this issue to work 
 in a good way. Music on other hand, it's quite impressive picking up a great mix of classics from 
 the movies/games and put a new syncro on the overall, making the game not so untangible as I make 
 look like.
  
  Gameplay 7/10: Mainly based on the touch screen for the actions of your character, you use the 
 stylus to peform several feats and combos as it suits for the situation, wich indeed really impresses... for 
 the first 30 minutes of gameplay, then you end up in a simply matter of hack n' slash by using 
 just the slash, the force wave and lighting buttons as the others remain obsolete or useless ( Saber 
 Trown just don't do anything to be considered useful in ANY of the games ocasions) . In many parts 
 of the game you will need to use the force powers to remove certain obstacle or just to manipulate 
 enviroment at you bidding however instead let the player think for a while or just figure it out 
 it just flash out what to do which can be frustrating as the game advances. There's saberlocks 
 duels on Boss-fights that add a good but still weak sensation of a jedi spar, also there's some 
 events in game tha requires you to concentrate (actually use the stylus to collect "force balls") 
 to avoid or make some events to happen wich add's some challenge to the game. The combos that ou 
 unlock as you progresses is interesting and give a bit more options to fit the gameplay what can 
 be considered a very positive aspect for the game. Couldn't play it in multiplayer to make a statement, 
 but i assure that since you will face a human in a match the game probably will induce you in a 
 more tatic battle than squaring off against the AI.
  
  Replay 6/10: The game offers a very solid story that fits a gap between the episodes III and IV 
 of the series telling the deeds of Darth Vader's secret apprentice codenamed "Starkiller". Even 
 in a simple and very brief way, the DS port makes a good debuf in the stories, since there's more 
 that one ending what makes some value to be replayed, however, since the gameis very straight-foward 
 in it's design after all the story been spoiled you seldom will like to revisit this universe so 
 soon, the unlockables are quite restrict for the about 4 hours per try gameplay, yet still got 
 it's on charm since you get more outfits (that represents differents characters in Multiplayer) 
 saber colors and some other in game content.
  
  Overall 6.5/10: Star Wars Force Unleashed can be impressive and frustrating at the same time if 
 you doesn't know what counts for the title, looking gorgeous and confusing, storywise somehow shallow, 
 innovative as it looks boring, that indeed cames to you. The game have both strong and weak points 
 but it trully came to the eyes of player what kind of experience could this game brings at all. 
 I recommend this if you are loking for a good experience and action packed title, that despite 
 it's flaws it still brings some of the best SW experience on DS. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: CageSpot
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jan 18, 2009 11:52 am PT
Review:  On christmass day i Got a Nintendo DS with The Force Unleashed and i just completed it and i gotta 
 say wow This Game Was Awesome The PS2 and DS feel the same and i loved Both verisons
  
  So i got this game i was like WOOOH and i just had so much fun unleashin the Force On DS Online 
 and Singleplayer Galen Marek had done it again Unleashin the Force on your Nintendo!
  
  Reviews:
  Gameplay:9.1
  Graphics:8.2
  StoryLine:10
  Sound:6.0
  GAME REVIEW:9.2
  
 
  Get the Game for the Nintendo DS and if u havent got dat Get it for the Playstation2 IF your lookin 
 for some classic Multiplayer Action on the ForceUnleashed!!!! But the Game was a Cracked Up Epic 
 Understanding Classic Alrite the Hole game had a Hole but the Rest of the Parts were fine!
  
  There were lots of Costumes to choose From The Lightsaber Crystal Effect was Awesome the Game 
 was a Bomb No doubt So like i said Dont Read this Review its over Get the Game for the Nintendo 
 DS! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: zsocks
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 9, 2009 3:23 pm PT
Review:  i will admit that i was a person that said the ds sucked but... i was wrong there i said it. i am 
 a huge star wars fan and let me say the story is amazing. it is diffirent on the DS then other platforms. i 
 suggest you read the book written by sean williams and then play the game. it is similar but a lot 
 lot shorter. gameplay is about 4-5 hours or even shorter i tried to preserve the game because it 
 was first DS game. you control with the pad or if your a lefty you can use the a, b, x, y buttons. you 
 can tap to swing the light saber or throw the light saber, sith lighting, force push and choke. you 
 also unlock combos by FORCE POINTS you can upgrade your force mastery. boss fights are short and 
 simple once you damage them enough you go to a cut scene light saber dual what you do is touch 
 the screen and spin your saber to match your opponent. for a force cut scene their are little blue 
 orbs you drag into the black hole dont even touch the red ones. though it kind of obvious how the 
 story will end it is one if not the best best star wars games on the market. i know im not the best 
 person on writing reviews but i still hope this review helped. so see you next time
  
  ZSOCKS/ 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ZOMGTehN00b
Rating: 6.5
Date: Dec 26, 2008 7:34 am PT
Review:  It stunk... compared to even the wii version which was also a letdown...
  Lucasarts should have made all of them on their own like Xbox 360 and Playstation 3, it would hav 
 ben delade but everything would have better garphics, better controls, better multiplayer, and 
 a longer story. I say it stunk, but only because of the storywise, graphical, and multiplayer letdowns. 
 Over all if u can get past the short story and Playstation one graphics, then youll find it fairly 
 fun. If the price is lowered to about $17.99, then its worth the buy, but otherwise, don't waste 
 yourr money. Star Wars Clone Wars Jedi Alliance did a lot better beccause n-space didn't do it. 
 Its all really n-space; s fault, although lucasarts shude take blame for being 2 busy with Xbox 
 360 and Playstation 3 to work on anything else 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Navess_Rug
Rating: 7
Date: Nov 24, 2008 12:15 pm PT
Review:  The Characters:
  Some of the characters are disappointing like: Rahm Kota he dosen't attack you back if you attack 
 him all the time.
  Shaak Ti is the same as Rahm Kota but she will throw boulders on you.
  Darth Vadar will attack back but not so often.
  Darth Sidius will attack back often but to much.
 
  StormTroopers, Felucians, Kota's Troops, Bar Creatures & Wookies are easy. but sometimes the can 
 annoy you.
  Some of the characters are more hard or good but there is nothing to took about.
  It's fun to 
 fight These Characters, but it's too easy.
  
  Force Abillities:
  The force abillities are:
  Slash is just ... a nice abillity. Throw which is nice too.
  Lightning 
 which is the most cool abillity.
  Push is the most useful abillity.
  Grip is a powerful abillity.
  Jump its a... jump nothing special.
  
  Combos:
  The combos 
 are easy to do & powerfull. the are useful.
  There is new combos & old combos.
  The combos are addictive.
  
  Gameplay:
  The game is easy to control but you can miss you 
 anemy.
  And the graphic is goog for ds game. The game is one of the most fun, cool & addictive star wars 
 games. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: neoprime33
Rating: 7.5
Date: Nov 12, 2008 11:40 am PT
Review:  After reading the book, The Force Unleashed, I wanted to play this game since I knew I wouldn't 
 be seeing this book come to life in a movie. I decided to go with the DS version because as a Father 
 of three, it is easier to play games on my portal gaming system then it is on my console. 
  
  First, I will say this game isn't perfect. It has its flaws (e. g. camera angles, control, short, 
 not much replay value) ; however, even with its flaws, I did enjoy it a lot. What better way to 
 experience what you read in the book then to play the character in a game. 
  
  If you've played the game on the console, then I would say don't bother - you might be disappointed 
 in this game; however, if you haven't played the console version, maybe start out with this version 
 first. Rent it, then decide if you want to buy it. I opted to buy since I know I will be playing 
 this game from time to time.
  
  Overall, read the book first to get the full story; it makes the game that much more enjoyable. 
 :) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Tyler_100
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 8, 2008 11:56 am PT
Review:  TFU for ds is one of the best adventure games I have played on the ds. The fighting mechanics are 
 great for the platform. The level designs vary enough to keep you interested, and the graphicall 
 representation is great for the hardware as well. Being a huge star wars fan, I wasn't let down, 
 the story did well for bridging the 3rd and 4th movies together. The difficulty wasn't always what 
 I had hoped for, but in the end it rounded out niceley by upping the difficulty a bit in the last 
 couple of levels. The characters in the game weren't expanded upon as much as they could of been. 
 The game leaves you hanging witholding details on the characters. Don't get me wrong though, the 
 dialog in the game is of decent quality, with even some humor from the main characters droid.
 
  The controls on the touch screen are a nice change from the button mashing of the ps3 and x360 
 versions, and meshes the comobos in nicely.
  So in conclusion, this game I would reccomend if they are looking for a budget TFU experience, 
 or excited for a force whoopen time. This is your game! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: t_boneplayer1
Rating: 3.5
Date: Oct 30, 2008 7:35 pm PT
Review:  This is ds game I was kind of looking for, but it did not live up to my expectations. The story 
 is about this new apprentice of Darth Vader named Starkiller. His objective is to kill jedi and 
 to help Darth Vader destroy the emporer. That is all I am going to give you about the story line 
 itself. I was anticipating bad graphics from this game, but it worse than expected. It was way 
 to easy to kill off most of the bosses for me. The only one that was really difficult to be was 
 Darth Vader and the Emporer. It only took me about four hours to beat the entire game. It needed 
 more of a storyline on the ds platform. The fighting system was very easy. You only had 5 items 
 on the bottom of the ds. It was really easy to get those combos in the game, too. Overall, it didn't 
 really met my requirements. I guess I just need to get for the Xbox 360. Maybe it will be harder 
 to win. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: matorodude
Rating: 2.5
Date: Oct 28, 2008 3:38 pm PT
Review:  Are you so much of a Star Wars fan that you have a wookiee costume in your closet? Or youve gone 
 "trick or treating" dressed as a Star Wars character? Well even if youv done both youll still be 
 dissipointed.
  
  
  
  Gameplay: 4.3
  This is just WAAAAAAAAAAAY to bad. The gameplay is just horrible. I dont know why this is so bad, but 
 whatever reason makes it worse!!
  
  Graphics: 3.2
  Horrible. (if youve read my other reviews youll hear me say that a lot) . Just about sa bad as it 
 can get. The graphics are worse than the TRANSFORMERS game.
  
  Sound: 6.5
  This is about the best the game has. Youll hera music and sound from the movies and new sounds.
 
  
  Replay Vaule: 1.3
  If youve beat the game theres no point in playing the game. You cant replay levels meaning after 
 you beat the game you cant pick the levels you play, you have to do them in oder. again 
  
  Overall: 2.5
  If you are a die-hard Star Wars fan youll hate it. If youre not a Star Wars fan 
 youll hate it even more. Just dont get it. Please. Sorry all Star Wars fans but I (and mabey you) 
 wont be getting my wookiee costume out of the closet to celebrate this title. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: link-pwnage
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 27, 2008 11:40 am PT
Review:  I got this for my birthday and I hade before hand looked at the rating and I thought this isn't 
 going to be that good. but MY mind was changed. The force powers were awsome and cool. With all 
 the cheats and stufff you can where flippin awsome outfits and get diffrent lightsaber colours 
 and you can play through the whole thing as darth vader if you want. This game will make you sqeal 
 with delight as you bring the giant mushrooms and logs ontop of your enemys heads. Also this game 
 fills the gap between 3 and 4 amazingly. Just down right buy it and get 5 hours of pure fun. This 
 game also has multiplayer the only bad thing is you need a friend with a Ds witch i do not have 
 But if your not sure let me asure you this is a good choice. I would also like to point out that 
 I will want to replay this game again and again just becuase its fighting machanics are so freakin 
 intense. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Statsgirl
Rating: 6.5
Date: Oct 11, 2008 9:19 am PT
Review:  There is good news and bad news with Star Wars the Force Unleashed. The good news is that finally 
 Star Wars fans have one video game on the DS/PSP, etc. that is legit. For so long you had the X-Box 
 and the computer hogging all the good/legit video games. The Force unleashed finally gives you 
 the Star Wars fan a chance to wield a light saber and a chance to use the force. For too long I 
 have waited for a game like this (thanks to Lego Star Wars for filling that void for me) .
  
  *Spolier* the thing that I loved about this is that you get to control the MAN himself Darth 
 Vader at the beginning of the game. The one thing I wished is that I had more time to play as him 
 and destroy things .
  
  The use of the force in this game was cool, for a first time game like this I wasn't expecting 
 much and was happy with what I had. If they were to come out with a part 2 though I would expect 
 more and hope that the powers that be give you unlimited freedom with it.
  
  Bad news is that the game feels extremely limited and was entirely too short. Also the whole game 
 feels easy with the exception of the end which I won't spoil for anyone.
  
  So in the end I give The Force Unleashed a thumbs up and say thank you to those that brought it 
 to live. Recommendation for next time, don't be afraid to make it longer and also give us a true 
 feeling of what the Force is Unleashed!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ahappyfool
Rating: 5
Date: Sep 23, 2008 8:58 pm PT
Review:  I love Star Wars. It was the very first film I ever saw as a child. I stayed faithful to the movies, 
 and honestly enjoy them all. I enjoy the movies crossing into the game world (occassionally) with 
 Jedi Outcast, X-Wing and Racer.
  
  But this game is a piece of crap. And let me tell you why..
  
  First and foremost.. NO GAME 
 should ever take 3 hours to finish. I am serious. The save file tracks your playing time, and I 
 finished in just over 3 hours. WTF? If you're spending 40 clams at Bestbuy or EB for a "Star Wars 
 epic game", it better last way longer.
  
  The music is pretty much the only thing epic about this game. The plot, albeit somewhat revealing 
 and between-movie filler.. is unlikely (no spoilers here, but it is laughable) . 
  
  The graphics are brutal and far too basic to be on a game touted as 'next-gen'. And I'm not being 
 hard on this game. We have seen with Metroid, Elite Beat Agents, MarioKart, Final Fantasy, etc 
 how good the games on DS can be. It seems LucasArts blew their development cash on the major platforms 
 and "phoned in" there design on the DS. The graphics for Lethal Alliance were not award-worthy 
 and neither is this one either. Its almost funny to sit through 5 minutes of credits of a design 
 team at the end of the game.
  
  The gameplay.. you would have to have one hand, severe vertigo or major developmental problems 
 to find this game difficult. Most of the force powers clear your enemies quickly. The bosses are, 
 again, laughable.
  
  Maybe you will find that playing as Darth Vadar at some unlockable points is fun. I was disappointed.
 
  
  If you download this game.. good luck with it.
  If you bought it.. my condolences!
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: link_623
Rating: 7.5
Date: Sep 20, 2008 3:41 pm PT
Review:  For those of you who don't know, Star Wars: The Force Unleashed takes place between Episodes III 
 and IV. You control Starkiller, Darth Vader's secret apprentice, throughout the game. Whether or 
 not you're using the force or your lightsaber killing enemies, The Force Unleashed is a short yet 
 enjoyable experience on the DS. 
  
  The main attraction this version has going for it are the touch screen controls. There are no other 
 options for controls but that is just fine as developer, n-Space, has done a great job with using 
 the touch screen. You walk/run using the control/D pad while pressing buttons on the touch screen 
 to execute your attack. The six buttons are: force grip, push, lightning, saber-throw, jump and 
 lastly, swinging your lightsaber. You can also perform combos by dragging your stylus over the 
 action buttons. Using a basic combo as an exmaple, you drag your stylus over the lightsaber and 
 force push icon to execute a force sweep. You unlock more combos are you fight bosses and there 
 are around two dozen in total. I found myself using combos, force powers and the lightsaber evenly, 
 never having to rely on one too much. 
  
  The game looks great in a somewhat detailed 3D environment with fantastic action going behind you 
 at times. However, the frame rate has problems in areas where you're using the force with objects 
 and AI on screen. The camera does have issues at times but that I found that minimal. A good thing 
 is that all the bosses can be fully seen in the screen. The cut scenes look great but the game 
 could use some more. 
  
  The game is on the easy side but I can guarantee that you will be playing some boss battles/areas 
 over and over again. That being said, the game has a leveling up system in categories such as the 
 force powers and more. This makes the game a bit easier especially when you get level 3 force focus. 
 
  
  The sound and music is good but it gets recycled extremely often. I found enemies' death cry a 
 bit annoying while the game could use a bigger selection of compositions from the Star Wars realm. 
 Also, all the dialogue in the game is done through text. Voice acting would be a great addition. 
 
  
  The game is on the short side, clocking in at around four hours to complete the main adventure. 
 You could also unlock lightsaber crystals if you missed them on the first play through and go for 
 the sith costume while playing through your second time. The game has 2 multi-player modes, death-match 
 and duels. I haven't tried them or even know someone who has this game for their DS. 
  
  In conclusion, Star Wars: The Force Unleashed is a rewarding experience, especially if you're a 
 fan. Using the force and slicing enemies feel great. If you aren't a Star Wars fan however, I suggest 
 you to pick this game up when it gets cheaper or hits the bargain bins. After all, this is the 
 best Star Wars experience on the DS. 
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: mull20641
Rating: 6
Date: Sep 22, 2008 1:51 pm PT
Review:  Star Wars: The Force Unleashed looked to be a good game. And for the first hour it's up to standard. 
 But, You'll find that the game starts to lose its luster as you keep playing. Instead of getting 
 harder over time it doesn't change. I must've died twice in the whole game. The levels are basic 
 and not much fun. And when you think the game is going to turn itself around it ends. My play time 
 was 3:57:10. However, I did find that the game had a very good storyline. It shed some light on 
 the subject of what happend during episode 3 and episode 4. It finally lets you know how the rebel 
 alliance was formed, where all the survivng jedis go after order 66 and how some planets kept on 
 fighting the empire. Apart from that I just think it could have been so much more...
  
  The Good: Nice force and ligtsaber combos, A good storyline, Explains a lot about the gap in ep3-4
 
  
  The Bad: Basic levels, Too easy, Way too short 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
