-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Star Fox Command
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/ds/action/starfox/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 Great touch-screen controls make flying around fun.
 Some original strategic elements and multiple storylines.
 Multiplayer dogfighting playable online or locally with one copy of the game.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 Most story missions feel randomly generated and don't pose much challenge.
 Lack of variety in the multiplayer modes.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Aug 25, 2006
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 7.5
Critic Score: 7.5, 57 Review (s)
User Score: 8.0, 1,657 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Nintendo
Developer: Q-Games
Genre: Sci-Fi Shooter
Date: Aug 28, 2006
ESRB: Everyone 10+

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
The Star Fox fighter squadron returns in this solid flight combat game, which distinguishes itself 
 with its strategic elements and well-designed touch-screen controls. 

  Yet another popular Nintendo series has successfully landed on the DS. Star Fox Command features 
 both the futuristic space battles and the likable cast of characters that the series is known for, 
 and its 3D visuals look great. The familiar style of the game is freshened up with unique touch-screen 
 controls, new strategic elements, and four-player online play via the Nintendo Wi-Fi Connection 
 service. It's a compelling combination that makes for an enjoyable game, though the single-player 
 mode's flight combat sequences are loosely structured and aren't memorable like those from the 
 classic Star Fox games for the Super Nintendo and the Nintendo 64.  

          Fox, Slippy, Falco, and the rest of the Star Fox gang return in this flight combat / strategy 
 hybrid.     

  The game takes place in the wake of the Star Fox squadron's successful prevention of the sinister 
 Dr. Andross' plans to take over their solar system. With that threat no longer looming, the Star 
 Fox team disbands... so when a new threat arises in the form of a fishlike alien menace called the 
 Anglar, ace pilot Fox McCloud must decide whether to battle them single-handedly or seek out his 
 old friends for help. On your first play through the story mode, you'll take on a series of missions 
 in a strictly linear order, though you'll notice Fox has various locked dialogue choices in between 
 missions. Once you finish the story -- which takes just a few hours and has a rather anticlimactic 
 ending -- those other choices will be unlocked. You can then go back through the story several more 
 times, and depending on the choices you make between missions, you'll meet different characters, 
 fight different foes, and eventually reach different endings. For a game about anthropomorphic 
 animals piloting little spaceships, the stories in Star Fox Command come off as surprisingly melodramatic, 
 apparently taking their cues from anime space operas. It's pretty good stuff.  

  Star Fox Command doesn't just put you into one action-packed sequence after another -- every mission 
 is couched in a strategic mode in which your pilot (or pilots) will need to thwart enemies that 
 are attempting to destroy your flagship, the Great Fox. You have a limited number of turns in which 
 you can move your ships, engage in battles, shoot down cruise missiles, and destroy enemy motherships. 
 If you run out of turns in a given mission, you lose. Of course, you can also lose by getting shot 
 down and running out of spare ships, and you even have to pay attention to a time limit during 
 every battle. This sounds like a lot to consider, but every mission area is quite small, so the 
 missions don't take very long. Furthermore, the vast majority of the battles you engage in will 
 be easy, simply requiring you to gun down some number of specific enemies that aren't particularly 
 aggressive. There are a few fairly tough boss opponents strewn throughout the game, but for the 
 most part, the easiest way to lose a mission is by failing to prevent a cruise missile from smacking 
 into the Great Fox.  

          The story mode branches in a lot of different directions and lets you play as many different 
 characters.     

  The missile-chase minigame forces you to move through a series of checkpoints before getting close 
 enough to shoot down the target, and during the moment of truth, things move quickly enough that 
 you might sometimes miss a checkpoint and lose the missile. Then it continues along its merry way, 
 and oftentimes, you won't get a second chance. It can be frustrating to lose a mission this way, 
 but were it not for these sequences, most Star Fox Command missions would be very easy.  

  You control the action almost exclusively using the touch screen, and while this may sound strange, 
 the system works well and eventually becomes second nature. During the strategic portions of missions, 
 you simply draw your ships' flight path for the next turn, pointing them wherever you want them 
 to go. During battle, you move the stylus around the screen to fly in different directions, and 
 you can make your ship execute a highly useful barrel roll by rubbing the stylus from side to side. 
 While the action unfolds on the top screen, the touch screen doubles as a minimap of the mission 
 area and also lets you drop powerful bombs and execute flips and U-turn maneuvers. Just about the 
 only action you don't use the touch screen for is firing your ship's guns. Any button, or even 
 the D pad, will do that, and most ships can also fire lock-on lasers if you keep an enemy in your 
 sights for a moment. Each of the game's many playable characters has his or her own ship, and all 
 are slightly different. These differences probably could have been a lot more pronounced, but on 
 the flip side, you can rest assured that they all handle smoothly and responsively.  

  In addition to the story mode, Star Fox Command supports six-player local wireless play using just 
 one copy of the game, as well as four-player online play. Online, you can engage in ranked "battle 
 royale" matches against multiple opponents, or play one to three friends in free battle mode. No 
 matter how you slice it, multiplayer matches play out roughly the same way each time, stripping 
 out the story mode's strategic layer and concentrating solely on ship-to-ship combat. You fly around 
 in an arena, gunning for other players while trying to evade anybody who's on your six. If you 
 blow somebody up, that player instantly respawns in the arena but leaves behind a spinning star 
 that can be collected. The player with the most stars once the time runs out is declared the winner, 
 so there's a bit more to the competition than just gunning down your rivals. This is a fairly simplistic 
 multiplayer mode that can feel pretty chaotic. It doesn't help that players' names can be seen 
 hovering above their ships on an opaque background, which will sometimes obscure the action. The 
 online mode can still be enjoyable, and since Star Fox Command is already available in Japan, expect 
 experienced competition from day one.  

          The strategic layer adds a twist to this Star Fox game, but the flying and shooting is 
 still the best part.     

  The presentation in Star Fox Command is one of the highlights. The impressive 3D visuals do a lot 
 to make the game more appealing. The ship designs look great, the game runs smoothly, and there 
 are a number of different, good-looking environments to fly around in. There's no speech, but all 
 the characters speak in a gibberish language you might associate with this series (it also sounds 
 a lot like Animal Crossing's "animalese") . One slightly creepy option is to put your own voice 
 in the game by saying a series of words and phrases into the DS microphone, which causes Fox's 
 tone of voice to sound like yours. A fitting soundtrack and good sound effects round out the audio, 
 though the incessant high-pitched chatter of ROB the robot during both story battles and multiplayer 
 battles can be grating. But this is still a technically impressive DS game that's colorful and 
 fun to watch.  

  Star Fox Command has great controls and introduces a strategic layer that's fairly interesting. 
 However, the random feel of the story battles and the frantic multiplayer mode don't make the most 
 of this game's solid foundation, which might cause nostalgic fans to long for the series' good 
 old days. Fortunately, Star Fox Command still has a lot of good qualities going for it, so anyone 
 looking for an original, portable flight combat game should set their sights on this one.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (189 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: RocketZ99
Rating: 8
Date: Apr 20, 2009 4:01 am PT
Review:  After all, you can delete your data and start over. Besides, it is fun to fly and shoot enemies 
 down (and they really aren't that hard to hit, that's why they invented the lock-on) . It's a nice 
 change from all the other StarFox games, because this is the first Strategy game in the series. 
 Instead of a set pathway, you can pick where you want to go next. The 9 endings were a bit strange 
 (G-Zero? Seriously?) , but it's fun to play through the game and go for them all. There are a mass 
 of characters to play as, even Slippy's fiancee, Peppy's daughter, and James McCloud! Even Star 
 Wolf is available in this game. Each pilot has their own ship, each ship with its own capabilities, 
 like how Falco has good boost and Twin Lasers, but few bombs and bad shielding. Multiplayer, I 
 haven't checked, so I'll go do that now. Overall, this game isn't as bad as some people want you 
 to believe.
  
  -Rocket 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 4EverGreen
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 13, 2009 2:13 am PT
Review:  This game is absolutely epic! It takes a little while to get used to the touch screen controls, 
 but after getting the hang of it, the game is both figuratively and literally a blast! This is 
 the first game I've played where not only were there multiple ways to get through the game to win 
 it, there were also multiple endings depending on the decisions made by the characters! There are 
 many different characters in different jet designs to play with, and they all have their interesting 
 stories and conflicts to deal with! Whether you decide to play through with Fox McCloud, Falco 
 Lombardi, Peppy Hare, Slippy Toad, Krystal, Wolf McDonnell, Panther Caruso, Leon Powalski, Amanda, 
 Lucy Hare, Katt, Dash Bowman, Bill, or James McCloud, each story arc has an interesting ending 
 with interesting revelations about each character. Personally, my favorite was finding out about 
 Marcus McCloud being born after Fox and Krystal get married during one ending. So if you haven't 
 played this game yet, you definitely owe yourself to give this game a try! It's epic! :idea: Enough 
 said! ;) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: simpsons_28
Rating: 6.5
Date: Apr 11, 2009 3:37 pm PT
Review:  I personally loved Starfox Adventures and Assault. But command really falls down because of a new 
 found strategic gameplay and ditching the straightforward flying the series was known for.
  Which in my opinion is a big loss.
  PROS:
  Just flying. That's how we want it.
  Addictive 
 multiplayer.
  Every character returns.
  The nonsensical jibberish is back.
  A great storyline. (Though I belive it's non-canon)
  Multiple endings.
  CONS:
  Strategic 
 gameplay turns the fun expireince into failure.
  After you've unlocked everything. And Multiplayer get's stale. There's nothing to come back for.
 
  Unbalanced options.
  The idea of playing as star wolf sounds fun. But it isn't
  
  So Starfox command is a real step down in the franchise that's been so nice to us. 
  Maybe if 
 they make a star fox wii they'll get things right. Hopefully. If not then We all can hang our heads 
 in dissapointment.
  But anyways. The new strategy gameplay. Is just terrible. It's no fun. Diffucult. And all star 
 fox fans will immediatley shake their heads in disgust at this game.
  But the multiplayer is good.
  FINAL SCORE: 6.5 
::::::

::::::
UserName: RetroGamer34233
Rating: 6.5
Date: Nov 10, 2008 10:35 am PT
Review:  The original Star Fox for the SNES broke barriers when it was released way back when. Since then, 
 other installments have tried to revitalize what the original brought to the table. They have failed 
 in their quest, and "Command" is unfortunately no exception.
  
  Graphics - The graphics are good. They resemble the original Star Fox a little bit, which I like. 
 The environments are well-done, and it's easy to decipher what's what on the screen most of the 
 time.
  
  Sound - The sound is pretty good, too. Shots from your ship sound smooth, not tinny.
  
  Controls 
 - This ruins the game. Controlling your ship with the touch pad doesn't even sound like a good 
 idea at all. And you can't choose to use the face buttons for steering. I tried using both the 
 stylus and thumb pad to no avail. If you play using the stylus too long, your hand starts to hurt, 
 and the thumb pad isn't precise enough.
  
  Gameplay - This is ruined by the controls. But I'm sure I'd rate this game at least an "8" if you 
 could control your ship with the face buttons. The mapping feature for each mission is mediocre 
 at best, especially since if the flight pattern you draw is just a tad off there's usually no way 
 to correct yourself.
  
  Overall, this game could have been great. But the clunky controls kill all the fun you could have 
 had. Hopefully, the original will be available on the Wii Virtual Console soon, since no other 
 Star Fox game can touch it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: waii_hui
Rating: 1
Date: Nov 5, 2008 2:19 am PT
Review:  I swear to freaking god this game is just impossible. It's part strategy, part flight game, but 
 mostly frustration. the game is basically all about trial and error. You start off with only 4 
 turns and that is the maximum number you can get. You will have to get more to survive. Before 
 battle, you get to use the fog of war which lets you clear up only a tiny bit of the map. Your 
 ships can only move a certain distance, so you use your stylus to trace the path you want it to 
 go. Basically if you were unlucky with clearing the fog, you have to just go blind into the fog 
 areas. If you do get into a battle, you have to manage your time and shields. It's really hard 
 to hit the enemies, because they are just too fast. It's impossible to see if you are hitting the 
 enemy when you are firing right behind the enemy. So I just fire repeatedly with the hope some 
 of my shots are hitting it. I thought the aiming and ship movement to be very difficult especially 
 when you're following a fast moving enemy. YOu have to turn quickly and it's hard to do. Sometimes 
 the ship either goes too fast or too slow, or turning gets to be very annoying. it makes the ships 
 hard to control.
  
  The whole game is rigged and the odds of winning are small. You only have certain paths that you 
 must take to win, so management is key. You have to manage the way you move your ships perfectly 
 to get all the enemies or else you will lose. The time factor is another thing that makes it so 
 difficult, because the time moves quick in each battle. Do it quick because everybody in your team 
 shares the time alloted to you.
  
  It's just another annoying thing to deal with. You will have to scramble to get more time, shields, 
 and turns very frequently to survive, so your other ships can actually have time to battle. 
  
  SO you have to deal with a time limit in battle, shields, managing your map movement correctly, 
 using your fog-clearer carefully and killing all the enemies with 4 turns maximum. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MegandDia128
Rating: 7
Date: Oct 18, 2008 2:39 pm PT
Review:  While it is not entirely a bad game onoe thing that makes you want to scream is the storyline it 
 does not go how you wish it to go, simpy put if the releationship between Fox and Krystal drove 
 you insane in Star Fox Assault it will do even more in this version. Fear not though it is enjoyable. 
 The Gameplay is set up much like a map style and requires a lot of thinking flying the Arwing is 
 much like the 64 battles between Star Wolf and his team. The storytelling had plunged durning assault 
 and Command real has nothing out of the ordinary about it though the gameplay and story is what 
 keeps you playing by the time you get the multiple endings you will be craving a sequel and want 
 closure to this game. While it is a game that Star Fox fans will want to try out it will only appeal 
 to us so others might want to turn away. I enjoyed it but it just seemed somewhat of a letdown. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SSBFan12
Rating: 6.5
Date: Sep 18, 2008 6:05 pm PT
Review:  In this game you control all of the Star Fox crew and it is a Sci-Fi, Shooter, and it is sorta 
 a strategy. The game is a little hard and boring sometimes. The missions are not the best all you 
 do is go up to some fleets and you destroy all of the fleets then you versus against a big base 
 or a big boss. The story deosn't make any sense really. All you do in the game is shoot down enimy 
 in a battle but it gets kinda boring. The Star Foxs crews ships are very amazing and have a cool 
 design. Also you destroy a atomic bullet that if you fail then it will destroy the ship or if any 
 enimy ship goes near the fleet then it is game over. 
  
  The good of the game is that there are cool designs. The sound Effect is really amazing. The game 
 has the DS features like touch the touch screen alot. THe graphics are amazing for a DS game.
 
  
  The bad of the game is that it gets boring real fast. It is easy to lose. The story mode is a bit 
 hard.
  
  Overall this game gets a 6.5 outta 10. This game gets boring real fast so don't get if you don't 
 like Star Fox. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: korino55
Rating: 7
Date: Aug 25, 2008 6:19 am PT
Review:  I got SFC in a bundle when buying my DS. As I started getting into the story mode, I almost was 
 immediately stopped by the difficulty I found in following the missle slipstream (third world, 
 I think) by commanding your ship with the stylus. As a handheld game, I think that boss fight would 
 have been better saved for a console, such as the Wii. Commanding your ship by the stylus is cool 
 most of the time, but when your hand gets in the way, or an off-set touch screen could mean death 
 for Mr. Fox.
  The online play is nice, considering some other games that need friend codes and the like. But 
 the online is also dissapointing because of its matchmaking. When I was just starting out, and 
 at a rank of X or Y, the wifi matched me up with all expert players (including a C!) .
  SFC does easily allow you acsess to play with your friends through one card, which, if you can 
 find a friend or two willing to play, can be fun.
  
  All said, I wouldn't pay much more than $15 (US) for Star Fox Command, as I really only use it 
 for the online wifi play 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ghostofluigi
Rating: 4
Date: Aug 24, 2008 8:24 am PT
Review:  The Star Fox franchise has landed onto the DS with Star Fox Command and its landed with a lot of 
 turbulence.
  
  Graphics were nice looking a lot like the N64 version which was good. Storyline was stong and it 
 flowed nicely. The roster of characters was great.
  
  Now on to the negative part.
  
  Voice Acting was just terrible, bottom line. Also, I hated the fact that at certain levels, I had 
 to clear fog with my stylus to capture enemies and it was confusing and irritating because there 
 was always one I seemed to miss. Another was that the way I had to protect the Great Fox with maybe 
 2 or 3 ships when there are about a dozen enemies coming at us. Doesn't the Great Fox have laser 
 guns too. The last thing is the gameplay. I'm sorry but I got enough of turn-based fighting in Advance 
 Wars.
  
  
  To conclude, Star Fox Command is a game with very few redeeming qualities. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: HalfLife24
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 5, 2008 4:58 pm PT
Review:  this game is really fun. the wifi is the best part! there is a ranking system is really good. you 
 start at z and go up til u get to a. the ds download is really fun 2 u can hav lots of people and 
 play. the campain is pretty cool and once u beat it there are a bunch of new stories 2 begin so 
 overall a good game. the the the the the the the the the the the the the the the the the the the 
 the the the the the trying 2 waste words ajkfksaf sdfhasdfhasjf dffasfkshfhsdfhasdjfasd adsfskjf 
 fsafsjfhf dsafhsadjfhsa asdfaskjdfkhsaftrying 2 waste words ajkfksaf sdfhasdfhasjf trying 2 waste 
 words ajkfksaf sdfhasdfhasjf trying 2 waste words ajkfksaf sdfhasdfhasjf trying 2 waste words ajkfksaf 
 sdfhasdfhasjf trying 2 waste words ajkfksaf sdfhasdfhasjf trying 2 waste words ajkfksaf sdfhasdfhasjf 
 trying 2 waste words ajkfksaf sdfhasdfhasjf trying 2 waste words ajkfksaf sdfhasdfhasjf 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nintendo890
Rating: 5
Date: Jul 9, 2008 9:29 pm PT
Review:  From what I've heard from most people Star Fox was a really good game so I decided to check Star 
 Fox Command. At the start it was pretty fun the touch control was hard to get used to. So I did 
 the first few levels with ease and at the water level (whatever it was, you were underwater) I 
 quit. The reason? It was freaking impossible I tried for hours to beat I couldn't the fact that 
 you are also timed is no help at all. I know I sucked at it but it was truly not that fun. The 
 music was somewhat good and the story (from what I had heard from it was ok) my friend did tell 
 me about alternate endings which is cool if you can beat it once :P. The voice wasn't any good but 
 I was intrigue by the use your own voice thing which made no difference. Unless you have played 
 Star Fox games before I can't really request this game to anyone unless you want to try something 
 new. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bluej33
Rating: 6.5
Date: Jul 5, 2008 10:27 am PT
Review:  Cute, furry talking animals trying to kill each other in fighter ships. What's not to love about 
 the Star Fox series? While not necessarily one of Nintendo's most popular franchises (Zelda, Mario, 
 and Metroid have that all wrapped up) , it certainly has been around for a long time and has something 
 of a cult following. Star Fox Command, the series initial foray onto the DS, was my first serious 
 encounter with the series. And while it does some things quite well, a number of problems ultimately 
 make Star Fox Command one of the worst games in the venerable franchise. 
  
  Star Fox Command takes the series in a very different direction while still retaining some of the 
 features that made the games so fun to play originally. Of course, the biggest departure from the 
 Star Fox norm has to be Star Fox Adventures -- even though it was different, it was still quite 
 fun. Sadly, the same just cannot be said for Command. 
  
  Rather than taking the role of an on-rails space shooter, Star Fox Command places an emphasis on 
 strategy. Each mission takes place on a large map. Placed on the map you will see your partners, 
 enemy icons, and power-ups. The members of your current party are all in your control, and the 
 strategy part of the game plays out in a turn-based fashion. When one of your party members has 
 his or her turn, you'll touch his or her icon, and then draw out a path through the map for that 
 character to follow. If one of your allies crosses paths with an enemy, then a battle ensues (more 
 on that later) . Numerous important items are scattered throughout the maps, such as time and turn 
 bonuses and health. 
  
  Before I move on to the actual combat, there are some problems that already need to be addressed 
 as well as some further explanation that is required. As I've already said, battles are turn-based; 
 the twist here, however, is that there's a very limited number of turns (you never start out with 
 more than four turns) . You can collect more turns on the field or in battle, but this mechanic 
 is one that I really don't like. I can see where the developers were going with this: they don't 
 want you to sit around and be lazy with your tactics; in many situations, you're going to have 
 to be smart to win within the time allotted. However, because there's so little time to beat a 
 mission, the course of action is pretty much set in stone and there's not a lot of experimenting 
 you can do. 
  
  Going hand-in-hand with the turn limit is the even worse time limit. Each mission is defined by 
 the number of "cores" that you collect from enemies (explanation will follow) . You have both a 
 turn limit and a time limit to collect the required number of cores. During the map section, time 
 is irrelevant -- you can draw, redraw, and rethink you strategy for as long as you need to. But 
 once in the battle segments, the clock starts ticking away. Again, time bonuses can be obtained 
 both on the map and in battle, but this is another implementation that just doesn't work. Your 
 times carry over from battle to battle within a particular map. So, for example, if you start a 
 mission with 200 seconds and then spend 30 seconds fighting a battle, you'll only have 170 seconds 
 for all the remaining battles in the mission. It's an annoying addition and it's particularly frustrating 
 to fail a mission just because you ran out of time. 
  
  The battle sequences themselves take place in once Star Fox vets will recognize as "All Range Mode". 
 Rather than there being a set path that your ship flies along on, you've got a big open region 
 with tons of enemies, environmental obstacles, and lots of free space to maneuver. Each enemy icon 
 will give you a certain number of cores, but there's a catch; each enemy icon on the map is made 
 up of tons of different types of enemies, and only one specific type will yield any cores (the 
 other will give you small amounts of time, but they're generally not worth dealing with) . Of course, 
 the game will tell you which enemy you need to find and destroy, but they're not marked on the 
 map. It can get pretty annoying when you're flying around, wasting time looking for the last two 
 of a certain enemy to obtain the cores required to complete the battle. 
  
  One aspect of Star Fox Command that many critics and gamers alike have complained about is the 
 title's controls; frankly, however, I see no problem. If anything, the touch controls of Command 
 are one of the game's high points. You'll keep the stylus on the screen most of the time, and you 
 guide your ship by dragging the stylus around. For example, if you want to fly up, simply drag 
 the stylus up. Turning is done the same way, and it feels sharp and intuitive. Barrel-rolling is 
 a simple matter of rubbing back and forth across the screen horizontally a few times, and boosting 
 and braking are done via double taps of the top of the touch screen and the bottom of the touch 
 screen, respectively. There are special icons on the touch screen for somersaults and u-turns, 
 so you don't have to worry about inputs for these actions. Firing is the only action that is done 
 with the buttons -- any button you press will fire your ships guns. Overall it's a well-conceived 
 control scheme that's fun to play with and easy to get used to. 
  
  The shooting mechanics in Star Fox Command are one of the few things that haven't changed much 
 from the original. You've got your target reticule and mashing on the fire button is generally 
 the best way to take down an enemy. However, this time around, there are differences between guns. 
 The plasma shot is very powerful but you can't lock on to enemies with it; the regular laser is 
 less useful but locking onto elusive enemies can be really helpful. There's also the addition of 
 multi-lock lasers, which can target multiple enemies at a time -- a real help when you've got a 
 large party of enemies. Bombs also make a return, but to use them you simply grab a bomb from the 
 margin of the touch screen and drag and drop where you'd like to deploy it. Each character's ship 
 has specific characteristics, ranging from the weapons they have to how the ship controls. Because 
 you will take control of all the characters in the game (rather than juts controlling Fox and leaving 
 your partners to the AI) , you get a good feel of many different combat set-ups in Command. 
  
  Aside from time and turn limitations that I've already harped on enough, the biggest problem 
 is that it gets boring far too quickly. The strategy aspect of the game is fun and fairly addicting, 
 but the battles, which play an equally important part in the game, just aren't all that fun. Fighting 
 the same boring enemies over and over again naturally gets old very soon. The game does occasionally 
 mix things up: for example, to destroy missiles you'll navigate through a set of rings (the "slipstream) 
 while firing at the missile. Additionally, to destroy a map's enemy mothership, you've got to engage 
 it in battle and then navigate through a series a rings, and finally barrel roll just as you're 
 hitting the ship to destroy it. Even these actions, which seem original at first, get boring quickly 
 because they're just used way too often. 
  
  If you find yourself enjoying this mechanic, however, then Star Fox Command ensures many hours 
 of gameplay. The game's not very impressive plot-wise, but it does feature tons of characters both 
 old and new, and the much-hyped possibility of 9 different endings. After each mission you can 
 make a choice of where to go or who to go find, and the path you take determines the ending you'll 
 receive. Also, the addition of the "fog of war" device, popular in many strategy games, will delight 
 those who are into the tactics portion of Command. The sad truth, though, is that the battles and 
 tactics are both big parts of gameplay and they're both kind of hard to enjoy. 
  
  If you're a huge Star Fox fan, you may want to check out Star Fox Command. But if you're new to 
 the series, this isn't a good entry point. It isn't representative of all the fun that Star Fox 
 has to offer, and while I commend the developers for trying something new, you've got to come to 
 grips with the fact that sometimes new ideas just don't work out all that well. If you are interested 
 in Command, I'd highly recommend that you rent it or borrow it first if at all possible. It's a 
 real hit-or-miss game and while there is the potential to have fun with this game, too many problems 
 get in the way of enjoying it. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Hylian99
Rating: 5.5
Date: Jul 1, 2008 10:57 am PT
Review:  Star Fox is one of the odder Nintendo franchises. For starters, it is filled with talking animals, 
 but bears no resemblance to a Disney movie. However, the real reason that it has been so unstable 
 lately is that Nintendo can't seem to pick a genre for the series. While the first two shoot-'em-ups 
 were praised for their addictive gameplay, great graphics, and snappy (although sometimes cheesily 
 funny) dialogue, Nintendo decided to change it into a fantasy adventure game with Star Fox Adventures. 
 After that, they made it a 3rd-person shooter with Star Fox Assault. And finally, the DS has Star 
 Fox Command; the closest to the originals yet, but still a detour.
  
  I was apprehensive about this game's concept, but I had been wrong countless times before about 
 these things (I loved Cel-da) , and I decided to try it anyway. The game uses a bizarre turn-based 
 strategy interface. You draw your ships' paths, fire some of your three missiles at enemies, and 
 watch it play out. While this is not completely bad, and there are some fun elements to it, it 
 comes off overall as bland. There's not that much strategy, and the only objective is to destroy 
 all enemies. Also, the levels are all pretty much the same. There's a smattering of items (time, 
 health, etc.) , some barriers you can't go through, and there may or may not be asteroids or fog 
 of war. That is the extent of the uniqueness between levels. This makes the strategy element pretty 
 much a waste of time, as it's really not that interesting, and completely underdeveloped.
  
  When your ships and an enemy intersect, you switch to a 3d battle. The first thing that I noticed 
 is that the touch screen took some getting used to. However, within fifteen minutes it felt extremely 
 natural. Dragging the stylus to fly your ship around feels more like actual flight than most other 
 flight games. Also, the graphics are spectacular. Snowflakes dance in the air around your Arwing 
 (or whatever ship you may be piloting) and water sparkles below you. The ships look nice, and have 
 a variety of design. Unfortunately, the environments usually have little interaction with the ship, 
 as they are mostly flat, and there is usually little to dodge. These battles are almost exactly 
 the same as the "all-range mode" battles in Star Fox 64: you fly a ship around a small map and 
 blow as many enemies out of the sky as possible. However, the objective is always to destroy all 
 of a certain type of enemy, and there is usually little incentive to fight other ships, unless 
 you want some extra health or time. At the end of some, you have to destroy a mothership, but this 
 is usually easy and doesn't require much skill. Missiles are fun: you have to fly through markers 
 to reach the missile, and then fire at it to destroy it. This is also easy if you use the right 
 ship.
  
  And now the endings. The game is extremely short (about 3-4 hours) , but you're supposed to beat 
 it multiple times to play more levels and get more endings. The plots and dialogues are great, 
 but the endings are mostly abysmal. For some reason, there are only two endings that I have found 
 that are at all happy. Other than that, no matter what you do, you seem to ruin someone's life. 
 I won't go into details in case someone doesn't care and wants to see the endings anyway, but inevitably 
 either an ending is believably sad or (this is my favorite) some character has a random change 
 of heart and goes off and messes up somebody or something. It seems like each time you beat the 
 game, it slaps you in the face. I mean, you go through all this trouble to save the galaxy, and 
 everything's messed up anyway. In at least half of the endings I have found, someone ends up in 
 deep depression. They aren't exactly rewards for beating the game. There is one ending where everything 
 turns out great and it sets up the future of the series, and this is obviously (to me, anyway) 
 the "right" ending that will be used in the series' official timeline.
  
  Overall, Star Fox Command was promising, but they would have done better if they just skipped the 
 strategy and made at least a little more of a traditional Star Fox adventure, and also didn't have 
 so many depressing endings. I don't think this will satisfy hardcore Star Fox fans, although I 
 could be wrong. I would recommend it more for more casual gamers. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ARMonkey57
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 1, 2008 12:02 pm PT
Review:  This game is so addicting! I love how there are so many story lines that are available to complete. 
 The touch screen really makes me feel like I'm right there in the game. There are a bunch of characters 
 with a bunch of different abilities too, so it never gets boring or old. This game can get pretty 
 hard at times, but I find that even when I get stuck at a certain point in the game, I am always 
 able to overcome it after a few times. All of the usual characters are included, so for the die 
 hard star fox fans, don't worry about being disappointed in the least. The wi-fi is really great, 
 i've tried it a few times and was massacred the first two or three times, but I still really loved 
 the ability to be able to go head to head combat with real people around the world, as well as 
 my friends. I give this game a rating of 10/10! If you don; t already own it, I would recommend 
 going out and buying it right now! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DrPompo
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 10, 2008 5:00 pm PT
Review:  this was one of my first DS games. since i got it i could never let it down. i went everywere with 
 it, i couldnt even take my eyes out of this
  
  story 10/10
  the story was great!, well stories. it made it incredibly cool to choose your story through the 
 game. all the different endings were really cool.
  
  gameplay 10/10
  gameplay was what made this game so amaizing. the way of using the stylus to conduct the arwing 
 or any other spaceship you were using. and creating the path in the maps. and the multiplayer mode 
 makes it even better it was totaly amazing and having ranks is another cool plus.
  
  graphics 9/10
  no way i can complain about the graphics. they were simply great! nothing could 
 make this game better.
  
  Replay value 9.5/10
  the game always challenges you to play it again to get all of the endings and that keeps you busy 
 for a while. thats what makes me want to play the game, and oviously the multiplayer mode which 
 makes me want to play it everyonce in a while since i finished the game (all endings) its one of 
 my favourites multiplayer games
  
  it was a little too easy but great game still
  i strongly recomend this game to any star fox fan. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mariosonic91
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 30, 2008 7:30 pm PT
Review:  We dont see many flying-shooting games that take in space anymore but the star fox teams returns 
 in one of their best games yet. Star fox command lets you fly the arwing in a whole new way.
  
  Story 10/10: Taking place years after the aporoid invasion, the star fox team has gone their 
 seperate ways. While fox remains true to his job, falco flies driftly alone, slippy has taken time 
 off due to his new love affair, peppy has now become general in command due to general pepper's 
 illness, and the love affair has broken between fox and krystal. As the crew live their seperate 
 lives, a new threat has emerged from the venom sea. Its up to fox to stop this new threat.... but 
 this is at first. From here on the story can change in several ways. You determine your own path 
 and see different sides of the story with up 9 different endings. You can find a new story bringing 
 a new experience each time you play.
  
  Gameplay: 8.5/10: Star fox has always been about 2 things: flying and blasting enemies. This new 
 formula stays focused on these 2 objectives but with new stylus controls. Holding your stylus against 
 the screen determines how you'll fly. Were your stylus is placed is where your arwing will steer. 
 Tapping the top of the screen will give you a boost, while tapping the bottom will use the brake. 
 Bombs can be used by taping then holding the bomb on the screen then it drops where ever you release 
 it on the map. This star fox is no ordinary onrail shooter however, each mission consist of groups 
 of enemies and bases that you must take out before you run out of time. You can draw paths for 
 each character to cover wide ground or even take on 1 part with the best ship. Each character has 
 their own specially designed arwing fitting their personality. You play as different characters 
 depending on different missions, You can even play as star wolf (awesome) . Despite a small amount 
 of repitition, the gameplay is solid and can be made up with the variety of stories, enemies, and 
 characters that you encounter during your flight.
  
  Graphics 9/10: While this is a Ds game, its graphics have been very finely polished. The feild 
 itself is rather bland but the objects and enemies on the feild are well designed. A large variety 
 of enemies are cleverly designed as well as the ship you use to take them out with. Explosion effects 
 are nice and the artwork of story cutscenes is just beautiful. You'll enjoy the sites you see before 
 and after your finished blasthing throw the game.
  
  Sound: 9/10: A good amount of music is present as each character not only has their own ship, but 
 their own theme music that plays with them too. Each theme fits well as it gives you the feeling 
 of how the character flies: Someone like fox is more adventurous while krystal is a little more 
 passionate and some like leon are just plain evil. To those who have played previos titles you 
 will reconize a few but to all players you should be plesantly surprised with what music this game 
 presents. Add some nice shooting and blasting effects and youve got a game with a great soundtrack.
 
  
  Storywise, fox seems to be aging but his gameplay isnt. Its staying fresh and enjoyable after all 
 these years because nintendo continues to make it fun.
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: narutofan400
Rating: 8
Date: Apr 13, 2008 10:49 pm PT
Review:  To start the game off. You only play as fox and as you go through the game you will play others 
 like Slippy and Falco and Krystal. Some of these mission will not make since sometimes and they 
 will get harder and sometimes easier like stopping a missile. Actually, as you read in my deck 
 this is my first star fox game but it lives up to my standards because I can be picky about my 
 games. Also I beat my games very fast but this I cannot beat that fast. And in this game you fight 
 your nemisis star wolf. They will be kind of hard at first but you will catch on. The down fall 
 of this game is that they will give a time limit to this game and you only get four turns to do 
 what you need to do. So if you got a DS go get this game and it only cost me about thirty-three 
 dollars. Also to add don't let the enemie get close to the great fox. Just buy the game and you'll 
 see what I mean. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: StarFox-Elite
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 10, 2008 4:49 pm PT
Review:  StarFox Command was my first game for the Nintendo DS and what a great start to the world of portable 
 gaming it was for me.
  
  The series as whole has been a favoured one all my life as I grew up with it. Command is the latest 
 and I can't say Im very dissappointed with what the series has to offer lately with a few exceptions. 
 
  The whole out of the arwing and into the wild [StarFox Adventures] was a daring leap but was managed 
 to be pulled off only to be poorly done afterwards [in StarFox Assault] by Namco. 
  Maybe Nintendo noticed this and went back to what fans enjoyed the most back in the day.
  
 
  The story of Command is initially Krystal leaving McCloud and the StarFox team due to McCloud's 
 fear that she would be in danger if she were to continue to gaurd his six on the unfriendly skies 
 of the Lylat system.
  Throughout the game you get to make multiple choices on where you go and what you choose provides 
 the outcome of what happens next, ultimately giving you one of 9 endings which can be veiwed in 
 the gallery present in the game.
  Choices are selected on screen and get more difficult to choose towards the end of the game. E. g. 
 Contact Slippy or your second option, gather information on Corneria or later on, Go Find Krystal 
 or the second option, Fly To Venom.
  
  Graphics are great for a DS game of this genre and for the genre in general, Command does provide 
 a lead in what the DS can do for Flight sims and shooters in terms of graphics. 
  Chracters are detailed and creatively re-designed, levels are lush or desolate [but in a good way!] 
 when explored and enemies are detailed enough to shoot, although basic, the StarFox games were 
 never photo-realistic anyway. No need to be photorealistic when the way to take down an enemy is 
 to target its weak point or lock on with your laser.
  
  Sound is good although the characters could do with some real voices if thats possible. Soundtracks 
 are great, suited to levels, gallery has different tracks for the pilots listed in the gallery 
 and you can even hear a few old tunes in the game at some points too!
  
  Gameplay is fun, a little repetitive at times but overall good and makes perfect sense once you 
 understand the terms and concepts of the gameplay. The stylus is perfect for flying, banking, diving 
 and for when the memory of Peppy's voice in your head shouts "DO A BARRELL ROLL!".
  Manouvering is creative and how you take out certain enemies provides a little twist of action 
 and a drop of adrenaline into the gameplay.
  Controls for the game are changable with at least 5 different options.
  
  Multiplayer is almost 
 a different game completely.
  The only tactical side of it is where you make sure you get the bombs and the cannon upgrades first. 
 
  Thats all there is too it to be honest, collect stars for your records and brag about it to anyone 
 who actually cares about the multiplayer.
  The whole thing is a little bit of a hassle to get going too, no customisation, no communication, 
 no online records and overall drab fighting where you don't have a clue what is going on. 
  This is the ungaurded area in Command where any negative comments if at all, will go for above 
 anything else there is to complain about.
  
  Overall, Command is a medium length game although it does take a while to complete because you 
 will get bored as with allot of games, and take breaks in between while you unlock all the endings.
 
  Worth a play and worth keeping incase you do find somebody who you could play the game with and 
 actually talk to in multiplayer. Its best to get the game now because its not full price and doesn't 
 look like its going to get any cheaper.
  
  Whether the game itself is considered canon or whether just one of the paths chosen and the resulting 
 ending is going to be canon will be explained in the next game in the series. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: indra_agustia
Rating: 7.5
Date: Feb 3, 2008 3:20 pm PT
Review:  In this game, you have a limited number of turns in which you can move your ships, engage in battles, 
 shoot down cruise missiles, and destroy enemy motherships.
  
  The story mode branches in a lot of different directions with different endings and lets you play 
 as many different characters. Every mission have time limits. After completing some mission, you 
 will get boss fight. The boss fight are not that hard, especially if you use a character with 3 
 bombs available.
  
  There is the missile-chase battle that forces you to move through a series of checkpoints before 
 getting close enough to shoot down the target. You'll lose the mission if the missile is close 
 to the motherships and you fail to destroy it. I think this is the hard part in the game, without 
 this, all will be a bit too easy.
  
  This is the first 3D plane fight that I played on DS and I'm quite satisfied with it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ThePimpEdwin
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jan 20, 2008 6:13 pm PT
Review:  this game is so-so really it has pretty active wi-fi and you and you can add freinds but can't 
 talk to them the game is pretty short but when you pass it if you choose you can redo the story 
 and do different things on the story and lots of different endings you can get and the controls 
 are pretty decent and easy to useand the gameplay is interesting and easy to master you can play 
 with up to 4 people online in battle royale or 5 player if they are your freinds or 2-4 in random 
 battle and it's pretty fun with other people i say it wasn't worth 30 bucks but it's pretty cool 
 andi guess it's good enough to buy if you have a wi-fi connection! if you don't it's really not 
 worth it unless you have a freind or another ds to play with if you can't get a hold of tose things 
 it's seriusly not worth it! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: koopatroopa1015
Rating: 8
Date: Jan 6, 2008 5:48 pm PT
Review:  Star Fox goes back to the early '90s with Star Fox, then to Star Fox 64, and then to two GCN titles. 
 So what happens after that? Well, Team Star Fox splits up and a new force, the Anglars, threaten 
 the Lylat system. So Fox must take on their army - but different events happen along the way - 
 some friends show up, some crazy twists turn plans upside down, some enemies try to stop you in 
 your tracks. It's not perfect, but you'll still have fun flying across the galaxy, planning missions, 
 and combating in flight.
  
  In this epic space fighter, you'll travel off to nearly a dozen places, all varying in enemies, 
 characters, and scenery. You'll start at one place, and you are offered choices to make in the 
 game. Depending on the choices, your adventure could take you in nine different paths. On the Map 
 Screen, you'll draw out the battle plans for Fox and his team, which requires strategy and careful 
 planning. On the Action Screen, you'll pilot an aircraft and try to clear out enemies from the 
 area, which requires skill and fierce fighting.
  
  You'll enjoy the storyline very much, and the nine endings are all fantastic and make it seem worth 
 playing over and over again. Both the battle planning and the flying combat are quite enjoyable. 
 The game presents a fresh challenge every time you play. However, the controls are annoying. You 
 use the stylus and the Touch Screen too much - even to pilot the ship. In fact, the only thing 
 you don't use the Touch Screen for is shooting weapons in combat. It may make your hand hurt at 
 first; but don't worry, it's only a slight drawback. On top of single player, there is multiplayer 
 and Wi-Fi, where you'll battle 1 to 5 other fighters and destroy their ships for points. It's great 
 fun if you get a good game going, but sometimes the Wi-fi can get annoying - it's not matched the 
 best.
  
  Wonderful graphics make the game only better. Everything is colorful, clear, sharp, and smooth. 
 The SFX are OK - unfortunately, the dialogue in the game is not real voices - it's SFX noises that 
 almost sound like gibberish. But one cool thing is that you can record your own voice and use that 
 as the dialogue SFX. The music is outstanding, simply put. It can't really get any better.
  
  It's well worth the time and money to invest in this Star Fox game. The single player is an 
 adventure to play over and over. You won't get tired of it. The Multiplayer is decent, and if you've 
 got Wi-Fi, there's another reason to get it. I recommend this game to anyone who likes Star Fox, 
 space adventures, or flight combat. The single player is a must for everyone - don't pass it up. 
 However, don't get this game just for the multiplayer. It's a nice extra bonus, but it's definitely 
 not the focus of the game.
  
  Sure, it's got a few little flaws here and there, but overall, if you want a great sci-fi adventure, 
 Star Fox Command is the way to go! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: firebirdboi06
Rating: 8.5
Date: Dec 18, 2007 1:45 am PT
Review:  Star Fox Command was ultimately an impulse buy for me, as kind of an out of the blue interest while 
 browsing store shelves. Lucky for me that it would happen to be a good buy. Star Fox Command makes 
 some of the most brilliant use of the DS I've seen thus far, with single and multi-card play, Wi-Fi 
 play, as well as an excellent control scheme that becomes second nature. You fly around using the 
 touch screen almost exclusively. Gliding your stylus around steers your Arwing around the battlefield, 
 while rubbing at any time will start the infamous barrel roll. Also, there are icons you can tap 
 to initiate U-turns and loop manuevers. There is also another icon used as a tap and drag to plant 
 bombs to wipe out large numbers of enemies. You also use either the D-pad or A, B, X, and Y to 
 fire weapons. This is easy to pick up and is also pretty easy to master. So, with as much credit 
 as I give the controls, I do wonder if it makes the game too easy. Not only is there dogfighting, 
 but there's also a new strategic layer to the game. In this mode, you'll rub the screen to clear 
 away the fog of war, and draw flight paths for your team to intercept motherships, enemy craft, 
 and missles. Going after missiles starts a quick minigame of zooming through squares (called beacons) 
 to catch up to the missile, and then try shooting it down while still going through the beacons. 
 Sad to say, it's where most of the challenge in this game lies.
  
  Sound is for the most part, good. Music isn't memorable, and the SFX are great... but for goodness 
 sakes, when characters talk it sounds like a bunch of garbled noise. The speech could not have 
 been in there and I would've been much less annoyed. The story can branch off and end in 9 different 
 endings, which is a nice touch, but it doesn't take much to get to all 9 as this game is unbelievably 
 short to get through. I can see it being good for say, quick play on a work break, but if you're 
 looking for a Star Fox story with some meat, you may not be satisfied here.
  
  In multiplayer you can battle locally with up to 6 people, or on Wi-Fi with 4, but I have no idea 
 how smooth it is or if it's a worthwhile experience since I could not find anyone to battle against. 
 In all, Star Fox Command is a very great game, with a robust multiplayer option, but the story 
 mode, while the branching out is nice, is still very short to get to the endings. Either way, it's 
 easy to recommend this game to someone who needs some dogfighting on the DS. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Darkknight313
Rating: 8.5
Date: Dec 11, 2007 1:23 pm PT
Review:  I enjoyed playing this game not the best but here is the plot: Team Sat Fox goe's on a mission 
 on stopping a new enemy named General Angler who serves Andross although he is dead and unlike 
 any other Star Fox games this one is RPG so because of that not many like this game but I like 
 it you use the stylus to move your characterinto battle and then when you approach an enemy the 
 graphics change you make sure all of the enemys on screen are dead otherwise when you are all out 
 of turns and there are still some enemys game over. So because it's not the best game of the series 
 but a good game I give it a 8.5. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: njfire
Rating: 6.5
Date: Nov 17, 2007 9:50 am PT
Review:  This game has good graphics and great controls, however the game repeats itself too much. How they 
 do the map is not that great. I want to fly and shoot, not play on a map. I played and played even 
 though there were things I didn't like. The good graphics and great controls can make up for that, depending 
 on the person, it worked for me for a little bit, but not enough for a great score. All around it 
 is a descent game. You should rent it not buy it. The game doesn't have that much too offer. If you 
 don't like hard games then don't get this one. Too confusing and too boring of a game 
::::::

::::::
UserName: JeffNipples
Rating: 4
Date: Nov 7, 2007 12:00 pm PT
Review:  Touch screen controls ruined the game for me. I find it hard to turn as far as I want to sometimes. 
 I also don't like the turns system in the game. It seems like you must play some levels multiple 
 times and try to memorize how the enemies are coming at you rather than using strategy of any sort. 
 I think if the game had optional use of control pad it would have been much better. Overall I think 
 bad game play and controls ruined what could've been another great starfox game. Nintendo needs 
 to make controls optional for games like this or sim city where touch screen ruined that game as 
 well. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: CrushedGroove
Rating: 8
Date: Oct 2, 2007 2:24 pm PT
Review:  I borrowed Starfox Command from work simply to mess around with it so I could tell customers what 
 it was like. I expected a slightly tweaked port of Starfox 64, but what I got instead was a fresh, 
 innovative addition to the classic series.
  
  Take the tried and true formula of Arwing aerial dogfighting and memorable characters, throw in 
 solid touch screen controls and some nice strategy elements, and you get Starfox Command.
  
  The story takes place around ten years after Starfox defeated Andross and rid the galaxy of 
 his threat from Venom. However, a new foe has emerged and it is up to Fox to reassemble his comrades 
 and rise up to save the universe once more. Although the story is fairly mediocre, varying plot 
 paths may be chosen throughout the game to change it up, and offers some nice diversity and replay 
 value.
  
  The missions start out with a turn based strategy game in which you, the player, must draw out 
 flight paths for each team member. By doing so, you may engage in dogfights, collect power-ups, 
 and liberate cities. All of the objectives must be done within a set number of turns, although 
 additional turns may be awarded for accomplishing tasks. Some of these can prove to be frustrating 
 at times, but all in all, the difficulty feels right. The battles play out nicely, and break away 
 from the typical level based design, and instead allow you to fly freely within the designated 
 battle zone. Battles are won by completing various tasks, but most are won from defeating a specific 
 type of enemy.
  
  The touch screen serves as the sole means for piloting your Arwing, and does so nicely. Any button 
 may be used to fire, and bombs are used by dragging them onto the touch screen map, which allows 
 you to implement surgical strikes anywhere on the battlefield. Barrel rolls are executed by moving 
 the stylus left to right, and u-turns and loops are done by simply touching the appropriate button 
 on the touch screen.
  
  Perhaps the most exciting feature is the ability to play as any of the members of Team Starfox. 
 That's right. Slippy and Falco are yours to control.
  
  Please note that all combat is aerial based, and Fox does not leave his ship as in Starfox Adventures 
 or Assault.
  
  While there are a few flaws in the game, (most notably the lack of mission diversity) , Starfox 
 Command proves to be a fun, and original, title for the DS and definitely worth checking out for 
 all fans of the series, and fans of strategy or flying games. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: thomas_bobbypin
Rating: 9.5
Date: Sep 27, 2007 5:17 pm PT
Review:  Wow to start i love this game! its amazing!
  
  the lurning curve? about 5 mins! in single player it starts With a turn based strategy and then 
 when you enter a battle it goes into a dog fightish scheme there is a set number of planes to attack 
 in those planes are some very important artifacts there are i dunno hmmm around 1-60? idunno artifacts 
 but anyway you have to destroy these planes, collect the artifacts the fight ends.
  but there is a big problem in this... when you go into a battle... there are at least like 20 other 
 ships around and you gotta take these/this plane down with the artifacts. but after that ends it 
 goes back to turn based strategy... AHA! where are the chalenges in this tbs mode? you've got only 
 (at the most) 5 turns!
  
  in multiplayer it is very different. its only dog fighting, normally i hate games like that where 
 its dogfighting but THIS! this is amazing! there are items inside the randomly selected maps but 
 they are always in the map! Bomb, twin lasers, then theres another upgrade.... i cant remember what 
 its called but it makes your gun better, and at last stealh mode! your plane goes invisible for 
 a while.
  
  Pros:
  Great style of game play, GREAT multiplayer, wi-fi mode, neat control
  
  Cons:
  ummm ive 
 been sitting at my computer for like 30 mins now trying to figure out cons.... well i guess the 
 controls can get odd somtimes!
  
  anyway its a great game and definetly worth your time and money!
  
  thomas_bobbypin 
::::::

::::::
UserName: svaubel
Rating: 6.5
Date: Sep 18, 2007 12:00 pm PT
Review:  It would have been nice for Nintendo to just give as a classic Starfox flying and shooting game. 
 rahter than some horrible turned based missions where half the time the controls dont work the 
 way you want, and because the whole stage failes if not complete in a certain amount of time. the 
 classic Fox action title you thought this would he, guess again.
  
  Gameplay 7- the controls take getting used to, but dont work well. especially the arwing flying 
 contols with the touchpad
  Graphics 8- pretty much the same as the StarFox Assult GC title
  Sound 7- Doesnt really fit into the game, but at least its not annoying
  Relay Value -5 low- 
 after beating it, if you did. there is almost no reason to play it again
  Fun Factor- 6- Moderate
  
  My final score- 6.6 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Kanden626
Rating: 8.5
Date: Sep 4, 2007 1:55 pm PT
Review:  Well, some people complain that Star Fox Command sucks because It's not on the rails like the originals! 
 Well, if you're somebody who thinks that any Star Fox game that's not on the rails has to suck, 
 then stop reading this review and find something else to do. For people wo feel like broadening 
 their views, continue.
  
  Now, this game has a great single playr. Basically, you have a God's Eye view of the certain level's 
 battlefield ( all fighting is in the air, don't worry) and displays all of your craft and all of 
 the enemies craft. You also have a certain amount of turns to complete a stage. So, you draw paths 
 for your fighters to move along, and if they cross and enemies path, you start fighting. Basically, 
 you're in an enclosed area in which you can move around any way you want (With great toch screen 
 controls) and defeat all of the enemies that are necessary to defeat. It may sound kind of lame, 
 and after a while it is, but durung the very lenghty single player mode, it's quite fun. Going 
 on to wifi. It's very simple. You get assigned a colored ship (Everyone's forced to use Fox's Arwing) 
 and you basically have a dogfight with up to three other people. It's very simple, very self-explanatory, 
 but is also loads of fun, because people can't hack or cheat in it (Like with Mario Kart) All in 
 all, this game is very fun. The single player gets boring after a while, and your options in multiplayer 
 are practically nonexistent, but if you can look past those minor issues, you will see a game that 
 is incredibly fun and easily recommendable. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MasterChief725
Rating: 8.5
Date: Aug 27, 2007 3:36 pm PT
Review:  I got Star Fox DS for my brother used at EB games. He told me it was too hard, and it was impossible 
 to win... I played it, and went through all the training excersizes again, and again. It really 
 is way to difficult in my opinion, although i like easy games. However, once you get the hang of 
 this game, it is fantastic. It is the longest DS game I have ever played, which is a big plus, 
 and i also really like the alternate endings. The music is excellent, and for $20, I think I got 
 a great deal. I also really like the variety, and the excellent gameplay... This is surely one of 
 the best flight combat games ever, and being able to play as 13 different chartecters... is great, 
 and they are all different. This is a realy classic title, and is my first real favorite DS title. 
 I dont know about paying $35 dollars for it, but if you can get it used like me, well. It is a 
 much buy. I am looking forward to Fox, Slippy, Falco, and etc's next adventure, long live star 
 fox! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Oliwam
Rating: 7.5
Date: Aug 23, 2007 8:07 pm PT
Review:  The Good: Tactical element breaths some fresh clean air; Touch controls are simple; Nine different 
 endings; Online play
  
  The Bad: That X factor just doesn't seem to be present; Story feels too random and hasn't been 
 improved in two generation; Even with nine endings the game feels too short; Character grunts are 
 just horrible
  ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
  Star Fox is a series that was at it's prime at it's roots, but then never seemed to have gotten 
 back to what made it golden on the SNES and N64. Star Fox Adventures was a great adventure game, 
 but it was disappointing and didn't feel like a true sequel to the great Star Fox 64. Star Fox 
 Assault tried to go back to the greatness of Star Fox 64, but it never seemed to be there. The 
 thing that made Star Fox 64 so great was that it was simple but extremely fun on-rail shooter. 
 You would think making a sequel for it would be a very simple task. However, the series has been 
 taking turns and trying out new stuff. Maybe it's a good thing to not keep the series same and 
 old, but neither Adventures or Assault just seemed to be there. Now on the DS, Command also tries 
 to add in some new elements. Again, the ideas are great, but it just seems to fall short yet again.
 
  
  Planet Venom, the planet where Fox took out Andross, is a barren wasteland, and it's poisonous 
 atmosphere doesn't it make it anymore nice. The result is that nobody wants to patrol the planet. 
 You would think no life can be supported on it, and nobody wants to patrol such an awful planet. 
 However, there was an advancing civilization being formed beneath the oceans of Venom. The Anglar 
 forces were forming, and because nobody ever took care of them, they left their waters and are 
 now setting out to conquer the Lylat System. This storyline is very simple. In fact, it's not any 
 better then Star Fox 64's. It also seems very random. An army of fish just suddenly happen to pop 
 up and want to destroy the galaxy? It's not interesting, and is way too random. As for the missions, 
 they also seem randomly generated. It feels as if they were just made to not make the game 3 missions 
 short. However, it only takes 7 missions to beat the game. Though there are 9 different endings 
 with different paths to take once you beat the game for the first time. Yet, it won't take long 
 at all to beat all nine. Star Fox 64 was a very short game as well, though come on, that was two 
 generations ago. As time progresses, the length of games should progress. However, in this series, 
 none of the games get any longer. It was okay with Star Fox 64, but it's now starting to become 
 a flaw. The same goes with the storylines. They just feel too random and aren't being improved 
 either. Another thing that is becoming more and more of a flaw as the series progresses.
  
  The thing that made Star Fox 64 so successful was it's simple but fun gameplay. It was a game that 
 you could play through over and over again, but it would never seem to get old. Though none of 
 it's successors seemed to be able to have that. Neither does this game. This game presents a new 
 tactical element to the series (hence the name Command) . Before you begin fighting, you go on a 
 map screen. Using the stylus, you draw a flight path for your Arwings. The goal is to take out 
 the enemies before your fuel gauge runs out. You also have to protect the Great Fox by not letting 
 any enemies get to it. The Great Fox can help you out by shooting missiles, but first, you have 
 to collect the missiles with your Arwings on the map screens. Later on in the game, enemy bases 
 will also shoot missiles at the Great Fox. You're going to have to intercept them head on. You 
 also have to take out enemy bases and motherships. It all seems simple enough. Though there are 
 a few annoying things. First of all, everybody shares the same fuel tank. It's needlessly aggravating. 
 Why can't everybody just have their own fuel tank? Also, you have a limited amount of turns. This 
 isn't too bad though. Overall, this new turn-based strategy element seems like a great idea. It 
 wouldn't be a bad thing if they tried it again. In this game, it was a pretty good thing. It gave 
 out a breath of fresh air, and the air didn't stink.
  
  Now for the fighting. To engage in a battle, you just have to direct your Arwings into the flight 
 paths of the enemies. Almost all of the enemies travel in groups. When you engage them in a fight, 
 you simply have to shoot them all down and take their cores before your fuel runs out. All fighting 
 is in all-range mode. The only times you do on-rail fighting is when you're trying to take down 
 an enemy missile and when you're destroying a mothership. All-range mode is fun, but it sure seems 
 empty without on-rail shooting. that's one of the factors that made Star Fox 64 fun, and the best 
 parts of Assault was the on-rail missions. Now, another new thing this game presents is the touch 
 screen controls. You use your stylus to control your Arwing. You use the touch screen to change 
 direction, to do barrel rolls, and to shoot bombs. To shoot normal lasers, you just press any button. 
 The controls are simple to learn, but do take a bit of time to get used to. It would've been nice 
 if they included the classic controls as an option. Though these controls are pretty good. Overall, 
 the fighting is pretty good, but it is disappointing that there is almost no on-rail shooting.
 
  
  This game looks very good for a portable game. The visuals seem very clear for the most part. That's 
 one thing that's good about the series. It's always been on top graphically. The animations is 
 solid, the artwork is great, and it has a satisfying polygon count. The visuals have been done 
 right.
  
  The sound of this game is half great, half ****. The good half is the music. This game has the 
 classic Star Fox tunes, and are nice to listen to. Though the bad half are the character grunts. 
 Since this is a portable game, you can't expect them to include full voice acting. Instead, they 
 tried to include character grunts (like in recent Legend of Zelda games) . However, the grunts are 
 just horrible robotic sound effects that sound worse then a goat puking out a bobcat while continuously 
 farting after eating a bowl of beans. In fact, the grunts will just make you want to puke. They 
 are abysmal. Give me back Slippy's voice, cause his voice is even better then this garbage! (and 
 that's saying something if you haven't played the previous Star Fox games)
  
  This game includes a multiplayer mode and is WiFi compatible. They are very simple. You just find 
 somebody to fight and just try to blast each other. Unfortunately, none of the Star Fox games have 
 had deep multiplayer modes. That's something that could be fixed, cause it would add a little bit 
 more value to the games. Though it's still nice that this game is WiFi compatible. It's always 
 fun facing your friends and rivals across the globe.
  
  Overall, this game is pretty fun. It presents a new tactical element and has new touch screen controls. 
 Though it also brings some disappointments. The story isn't any better, it isn't much longer then 
 previous games, and there is almost no on-rail fighting. This game feels like it's steering the 
 series in the right direction, but just doesn't seem to be hitting the acceleration pedal. This 
 game just seems to be missing that unexplainable X factor that made Star Fox 64 such a great game. 
 That's a shame, since Star Fox 64 is a game that you would think it would be easy to make a sequel 
 for. Though none of the three following games seem to feel to be a true sequel to it. This game 
 is pretty good and is worth playing. Though still, the wait continues for a true sequel to Star 
 Fox 64. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nintendo-naut
Rating: 7.5
Date: Aug 17, 2007 6:56 am PT
Review:  StarFox Command is a okay game. Allow me to explain why. First off is the gameplay. Nintendo for 
 some reason, (probably to show off the touch screen) took away the rail-shooter aspect of StarFox. 
 Since I'm a big fam of StarFox 64 I kinda missed it. You play the game by commanding your ships 
 to fly certain flight paths. You do this by drawing a line from the ship you wish to command to 
 the point to which you want them to fly. If a ship touches an enemy on the map then you go into 
 the battlefield. This is where the fun begins. The battle field usually has 1-12 enemies called 
 target enemies. You can shoot other enemies, but they mean nothing but points or an ocassional 
 item. In order to complete the battle you must destroy all target enemies. At the begining of the 
 battle, BTW, they show what those target enemies are. If you have played Metroid Prime: Hunters, 
 you'll be great at this game. You don't use the D-pad to steer. You drag stylus on the touch screen 
 in the direction in which you would like to move. You boost by double-tapping the top of the T-screen 
 and brake by double-tapping the bottom of the T-screen. You drop bombas anywhere on the map by 
 tapping and dragging the bomb icon, anywhere on the radar. (T-screen) In certain parts of the game 
 you can make decisions. These decisions will highly affect the games missions and endings of the 
 game. The music and sound of StarFox was excellent. You'll find yourself humming catchy tunes like 
 Krystal's theme all day. It's probably worth the buy if you already have all the better DS games 
 out there. Overall StarFox Command is an okay game that Nintendo, sadly could've done better on. 
 It is kinda addicting after a while, though. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: darth_hid3ous
Rating: 9.8
Date: Aug 10, 2007 8:41 am PT
Review:  Star fox... great series... great music... great story... ... am I creeping you out? If so, sorry. Star 
 fox always was my favorite air/spaceship fighting games. And this game is no different. But what 
 makes this better then other starfox games? Two words, Wi Fi. That's right! This game has Wi-Fi! And 
 you don't need others friend codes to battle, friend codes are optional though, and it's nice to 
 fight your friends/rivals.
  
  starfox command review, launch!
  
  Ok, the gameplay is way different from other starfox games, because no other starfox game was on 
 a ds. The controls for the battle parts are almost completly touchscreen based, only two things 
 are controlled by buttons, and that's firing and pausing. The real time strategy bit is a nice addition, and 
 it really focuses on the strategy. If you encounter an enemy on the level map, it goes into battle. if 
 an enemy reaches the Great Fox (the mothership in the starfox games) it get distroyed and you get 
 a big MISSON FAILURE on the screens, and a game over menu. My one complaint about gameplay is that 
 there are no on-rail levels, except for the chase the missle parts. that sucks huh?
  
  NEXT!
  
  The music/sound, are both near PERFECT in this. The music is so greatly awsome, and 
 there are so many tracks! As for the sound quality, think almost gamecube sound quality, and the 
 rest will come naturally.
  
  Graphics are the main reason I bought this, but that was before I knew how great this game was 
 anyway.
  
  The size of this game is big, with tons of levels that are all quite challenging,
  plus the 9 
 different endings that make the replay value go up, up, up!
  
  Mutiplayer is the major selling point of this game, and not only is there Wifi, but also download 
 play! YAY!
  
  Ok...
  
  Name: Star Fox Command (was there any doubt?)
  
  Size: big
  
  Description: Great muliplayer
  
  What I think: Really good, however, if nintendo ever makes 
 a sequel, they should keep the touch screen controls, wifi, and real time strategy, and toss in some 
 more rail shooting levels. But that's just my worthless opinion.
  Enjoy! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DSreviewer
Rating: 8.2
Date: Jul 23, 2007 8:20 pm PT
Review:  Gameplay: 8/10
  Most strategy games usually have thought-provoking, challenging, and satisfying gameplay, and starfox 
 for the DS comes as no exception. Most of the missions are set up with some dialogue so the game 
 holds up relatively well, since the story feels decently fleshed out. With some qeuing, you will 
 be cast into an area with unique terrain and will try to plan encounters with enemies and then 
 take them on in intuitive touch-screen dogfights. The enemies are placed with much consideration 
 by the developers so that they present a good difficulty without becoming frustratingly difficult. 
 The touch screen controls are simple but reliable and play very nicely. To barrel roll, you can 
 simply scribble quickly back and forth with the stylus. To drop bombs, you drag a bomb from the 
 side menu and drag onto the map. The enemies are displayed on said map so you can keep track of 
 where the guy is that you're trying to kill. You can tap buttons for loops and u-turns, and to 
 destroy missiles and kill motherships, you fly through targets. To fly, you just drag the stylus 
 in the direction you want to go, which is intuitive and is easy to get right away. You can pick 
 up upgrades with various fighters during the strategy part during your turns, which help you during 
 your fights. Although the battles are lacking a bit of complexity and can become repetitive, the 
 planning and strategizing to set them up is very rewarding. Graphics: 7/10
  Though the 3D visuals are about on-par with the N64 iteration the the Starfox franchise (like it 
 promised to be) , I couldn't help but notice that the environments were too plain for my taste and 
 that the monsters you fight were slightly uninteresting. The overview (strategy portion) does what 
 it needs to just as well as it should. One thing that can be said is that the dialogue sequences 
 have solid-looking sprites and keep the between-mission parts interesting. So, all in all, although 
 it wasn't a visual feast, the various locales give a decent visual experience; they get the job 
 done. Sound: 7/10
  
  The great thing about this particular DS game is that it gives an admirable attempt at voice.... acting. 
 Although it isn't true VA it is one of the only DS games in recent memory where the characters 
 make any sound whatsoever, which I consider a win. The in-game sound is solid to the point of not 
 being noticeably bad, but not memorable. Not one of the game's selling points, the sound is relatively 
 unnoticeable, which isn't necessarily a bad thing.
  
  Value: 9/10
  If anything IS a selling point for SF: C, it would probably be the game's value. Although the game's 
 base set of missions lasts only a about 5 hours (including learning to play) , the game branches 
 off into many more missions than available in Starfox 64, which means beating the game through 
 only once lets you see only a fraction of the game. This includes a storyline for each mission 
 chain, which leads to many different game-completion possibilities, a definite reason for multiple 
 play-throughs.
  
  Reviewing tilt: 9/10
  Although SF: C is not without it's flaws. the core gameplay is very satisfying and the DS touch 
 screen controls work pretty well. And, with a decent story, many mission options, and a stab at 
 character voices, Starfox is a good game definitely worth a rent, and in turn, if you enjoy it 
 enough, a purchase.
  
  / Seth 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ChakatBlackstar
Rating: 9.6
Date: Jul 22, 2007 6:47 pm PT
Review:  StarFox once known as the greatest fighter pilot series is back on top with StarFox Command. Fox 
 McCloud is back in the cockpit, Lylat is threatend again, and the StarFox unit is in shambles. 
 Basically you start off with learning that the team known as StarFox has split up... again. Fox 
 built a new ship, the Great Fox and the team redesigned their ships to suit their pilots. For example 
 Fox uses a standard Arwing II, an all around ship, while Slippy flys a ship with the heavist lasers 
 and the most bombs and shielding. You learn that Falco got bored and left, Slippy's off on Aquas 
 with his girlfriend, and Krystal is MIA. Oh, and Peppy got promoted to Pepper's old job as General. 
 Now the Lylat system is under attack by a threat from Venom's sea. A fish-like race called the 
 Anglers.
  
  Okay, enough about the story. If you wanted a great story you would read a book. Basically you 
 start off as pilot Fox McCloud and after beating the first default storyline you get this Key of 
 Destiny thing that lets you choose any number of paths that lead to one of nine endings. Also don't 
 worry about visiting a planet twice. Just because you fought on a planet in one story line doesn't 
 mean it'll be the same in another story line. Also different story lines will team you up with 
 different pilots, up to four. There are 15 different pilots to lead the counter attack against 
 the Anglers.
  
  Now for the full gameplay. It integrates the DS' unique control system and duel screen format. 
 In map mode you have a top screen which shows the status of your team or anything you click on 
 the bottom screen. The bottom screen shows the overall battlefield. You use the stylus to pick 
 out a flight path for each fighter in your squadren. Also if you collect any missles, either by 
 destoying all the enemys in a single fight or finding them on the battlefield. You'll also see 
 the location of core enemys and bases. In flight the top screen has all the traditional information 
 while the bottom screen shows the radar for the entire field your on. Flight is controled by the 
 touchscreen. The smart bombs are even smarter as you can drag the bomb icons to the location you 
 want them to hit. You can do loops and u-turns at the touch of a button. Barrol Roles are done 
 by swishing the stick from one side to the other. It's not too difficult once you get the hang 
 of it, and not only does it deflect weapons fire it also attracts bonus items like time bonuses, 
 health rings, and bombs. Oh and cores. The enemys let a group of their units to be controlled by 
 'core' units. When you defeat them they drop cores which you then collect. Collecting them all 
 will take you back to the map screen. You can kill them quickly or destroy all the enemys for points. 
 The enemy also has motherships that fly over ally bases. Once you defeat all the core enemys in 
 that area you have to do a barrol role to wipe out the ship. There are some other minor restrictions 
 that are easy enough to overcome once you get the hang of it, but overall this is a solid game. 
 The nine ending, thirty missions, and the number of possible combinations make for a game that 
 may be the best in the series, with the only fault possible being that it's on a handheld. If this 
 kind of game had been on the console there would be no doubt of it being the best StarFox game 
 ever. Although on the brightside it is portable. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: polishkid99
Rating: 8.6
Date: Jul 18, 2007 10:42 am PT
Review:  fox mccloud is back in his ship like in starfox 64. In this game fox isnt on land and air like 
 his last game on the game cube in this game its classic starfox action. there are alot of players 
 you ca control first is fox, falco, slippy, and alot more. before you get into an aircraft fight 
 there a thing you need to do on the touch screen where you take turns from your side and the bad 
 side and you move whats spaceship you want with the stylus its kind of like a board game. wich 
 i think is completeley ussuals in that game but ounce you do that it is a very fun game controlling 
 your ship with the stylus and makeing circles to barrel role. and the L button to shoot you can 
 also charge up the laser and lock on. there are also very fun boss battles in some of the levels. 
 some of the things i dont like about this game is that it is repettetive and the board game thing 
 you need to do before each fight but anyways this game is very good.
  
  but the best thing about this game is its multiplayer/online play its very fun you can play against 
 your friends or anyone online. Online you vs. 4 other people online in a level and you try to shoot 
 the other aircrafts down and this is probbaly one of the best multiplayer/online games on the ds 
 with mariokart ds and metroid prime hunters. well thanks for reading 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Arnode
Rating: 7.8
Date: Jul 8, 2007 11:51 am PT
Review:  This is a long fun game with nine different endings. The first time you play through it is so fun 
 and very easy. When are around beating it the 6th time it is hard and frustrating, I just want 
 to smash that ds into pisces. You can play with a lot of characters and planes. There is also wi 
 fi multi player on the game. The downside is that all what you do is shoot at each other and you 
 can't choose your plane or character. There is also no co-op witch would have been amazing. This 
 game is a good game for the ds. I would recommend it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sonicinkee
Rating: 6.7
Date: Jul 2, 2007 10:23 am PT
Review:  Unlike other Star Fox games, which are rail shooters, this is a strategic game, and the battles 
 allow you to move wherever you want (except off of the minimap) . Basically, you start off being 
 able to go on only one story path, but then the option that allows you to choose other story paths 
 opens up. The game is played strictly on the touch screen, besides shooting. It allows you to execute 
 U-turns, Loop-de-loops, and drop bombs. The controls work very well, and I can't seem to understand 
 why people complain why doing barrel rolls are so hard, they are extremely easy to pull off. The 
 game is split into 2 parts, strategic parts and the action parts. During the strategic parts, you 
 draw paths for your ships to move, and protect your flagship, the Great Fox, and at the same time 
 try to defeat your opponent. You have to destroy the bases , which endlessy spawn missles and enemies, 
 to liberate and beat the mission. Speaking of missles, they head directly for the Great Fox, slowly 
 creeping toward it each turn. You have to go through these box/checkpoints in order to go faster 
 and catch up with the missle. If you miss one of the boxes though, you lose sight of the missle 
 and it continues on its path. At first they are kinda fun, then frustrating, and when you realize 
 that a fully charged charge shot will destroy them in one hit, the missle chase minigame becomes 
 repetitive. The missions have turns you have to beat the mission in, and even though liberating 
 bases will give you two exra turns. it can still be frustrating. All thats left to say about the 
 strategic portion of the game is that you can pick up up to 3 missles for the Great Fox which can 
 instantly destroy an enemy, or gas or health. Now, an action portion occurs when an enemy attacks 
 you, you attack a base, you encounter a missle, or you fight a boss. Normal enemy fights are timed, 
 but are extremely easy. Instead of having to wipe out every enemy, you only have to kill the core 
 enemies, which control all the other enemies. Once you kill it, you take it's core and once you 
 kill them all, and take there cores, the enemy is destroyed. Normally, the core enemies are extremely 
 weak, and can be killed off in a couple of seconds. Occasionally, there is one big core enemy, 
 but this dosen't happen very often. The base battles are exactly the same, except after you get 
 all of the cores, you have to barrel roll through the box/checkpoints, to the mothership, and you 
 cant miss a box like before. After all of that, you normally have to take on a boss, which are 
 normally very hard. Some arent actually that hard, but it takes forever to kill them, and your 
 gas will probably run out before you stop them. Multiplayer is fun, but you only get to choose 
 from 1 fighter, and the plasma shot weapon is waaaaaay too overpowered. The graphics are the best 
 I had seen on the DS at the time, and you will love just staring at them. Even though I may have 
 made the game sound really bad, it's not, and it's one of my favorite games. If you can sit through 
 some easy parts and some very frustrating parts, but like good games, pick this one up. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: altenter
Rating: 7
Date: Jun 24, 2007 3:48 pm PT
Review:  i played star fox command for little over 17 hours before i got bored of it cause i found one part 
 i couldn't pass (eg the boss that is a frog that wont stay dead) . u can find urself playing singleplayer 
 lots of times cause later after the second time ur playing u get keys unlock new areas and wierd 
 bosses. the bad thing about the game is the voices sound like a hamster chewing on something. in 
 the options u can try to get ur voice to be 1 of the characters but u dont really hear the difference 
 (the only good thing about it is u get to hear ur voice as a chickmonk. eg the controls are hard 
 at first but u get used to them (i would of prefered the dpad and buttons instead of the touch 
 screen.
  
  the multiplayer wifi is good for a while but u find urself playing singleplayer again because multiplayer 
 gets boring real fast (the creaters should of added more stuff in the multi area) .
  
  overall the game is okay to buy and play. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DesertClawX2X
Rating: 7.7
Date: Jun 20, 2007 9:37 am PT
Review:  The Star Fox series has had its share of highs and lows. 64 was a classic. Adventure was a bold 
 new departure. Assault was a mediocre attempt at being a Halo-killer. While Command does return 
 to some of the mechanics that made 64 and the original classics, it's far from perfect.
  
  While the ships good nice (at least by the DS' standards) , most of the enemies and levels look 
 like they were designed by a kid who was shocked by a taser while trying to make origami.
  
  And did they really have to go back to that imaginary gibberish language from the original? 
 It's annoying! They could have at least put in a few audio clips...
  
  The gameplay is a mixed bag. The strategy aspect can be extremely frustrating, especially when 
 you're on tougher levels, only have 1 turn left to beat the level, have only 2 ships left, and 
 you have to destroy a missile and 2 motherships... The in-level portions aren't that much better. 
 All of the levels are timed, free-form staged where you have to kill enemies and collect cores... 
 Oh joy.... Well, at least they got two things right; the game is open-ended (to an extremely huge 
 degree) and you can finally play as other characters, each bringing their own custom space fighters 
 (and new strategies) to the table. Online is more of the same (minus the strategy map part) , but 
 strangely enough, it's easier to deal with the game's problems when you're playing with friends...
 
  
  The game has so much potential but so much of it is wasted... The controls are innovative, but 
 take a lot of time to master. Hopefully, the inevitable Wii installment will revive some of this 
 series' past glory... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: FelisLeo1980
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jun 16, 2007 10:23 am PT
Review:  Starfox Command gives a strong first impression especially for the fans of Starfox 64, but soon 
 that impression wears thin.
  
  There is surprisingly large amount of story in Starfox Command and total 9 different endings in 
 all. There are lots of interesting characters involved and this makes the story all the more interesting. 
 To make a long story short it&acute; s sufficed to say that the Lylat system is once again in peril 
 so it&acute; s up to the Star Fox team to stop the invading forces. You probably guess that when 
 the frame work is this thin the main focus in the storyline is those different characters, namely 
 Fox, Krystal, Falco, Slippy, Dash, Wolf, Leon, Panther, Bill, Lucy, Amanda, Katt and Peppy. This 
 is enhanced by opening a gallery of all the characters&acute; personalities and flying machines 
 as the story goes forward.
  
  Unfortunately the story is told with a few still images and A LOT of text on the screen and it 
 gets boring very quickly. This means that you need to have some amount of patience when progressing 
 the story.
  
  Graphics are good and the colors are bright, but it&acute; s not anything super cool or something 
 like that. Most of the time you&acute; re flying in the sky so you don&acute; t really notice what&acute; s 
 on the ground. Sound on the other hand could be better. There are those usual sounds of gunfire 
 and such but there is not that atmosphere of rich world of sounds that you would hope in a game 
 like this. More could have been done in trying to suck the player into the world of Lylat system.
 
  
  Weakest link in sound is the voice of characters speaking: it&acute; s just some mindless mumbling 
 and it gets annoying after a few minutes. At this point I changed the setting to Machine, which 
 was a little better. There&acute; s also a chance to put your own voice in use and this is a nice 
 feature, although somewhat useless in the end.
  
  Controls are easy to learn especially if you have already played Metroid Prime: Hunters. You use 
 the stylus to move your ship and any other button you choose to shoot. It&acute; s that simple. 
 Gameplay consists of 99% of aerial combat and 1% of turn-based strategy on a large map. This sounds 
 fine and above all fun, but this is where the troubles are starting to gather.
  
  On the map screen there&acute; s basically a choice about how you can approach each mission, but 
 since you have a limited number of time and turns there&acute; s pretty much just 1 route you can 
 take (if you wish to succeed in your mission) . This takes all the fun out of the strategic thinking, 
 because all you do is just focus on finding the right way to do the mission. This also causes that 
 there&acute; s not much of a replay value here, except to follow the different alternative story 
 lines.
  
  Fog of War in this game is a mist that covers an area and you can&acute; t see what&acute; s under 
 it until you do some intelligence gathering first and the Fog grows bigger on every turn as you 
 progress your mission. This makes it very hard to know what you should do, since you only have 
 a limited amount of turns at your disposal. When combining these 2 things (Fog and limited number 
 of turns) the natural outcome is that you probably need to repeat the mission over and over again 
 until you now exactly where every enemy unit is. This constant need to repeat and to repeat again 
 takes the fun out of the otherwise pretty good dog fight action.
  
  Aerial combat is fun and challenging, but you have a strict time limit at your disposal. You&acute; re 
 time is the same through out the mission so if you finish a combat with Fox and you have 70 seconds 
 left, then Slippy has to do his job within that 70 seconds and when he finishes at 30 seconds that&acute; s 
 the amount of time you have to get the job done with Falco. This means that if you spend a large 
 amount of time in the first fight just looking where your target might be you simply don&acute; t 
 have enough time to get the job done with other characters and again you need to do that mission 
 again and again. This time limit also creates a constant hurry and stress so you don&acute; t have 
 time to just fly and enjoy the landscape.
  
  Destroying a mother ship is a little more challenging than just flying with guns blazing. First 
 you need to take out a certain amount of guards (usually 2 to 4 of them) and then you need to fly 
 your ship into the belly of the mother ship in a true Independence Day style. It all sounds just 
 fine, but first you need to fly carefully through many red squares and after each one of them your 
 plane goes faster and the squares grow smaller. This makes the controlling of your ship harder 
 and harder. This would have been an acceptable amount of challenge, but you sometimes have a hard 
 time in seeing where the next square is in a 3D environment. On top of all that you need to fly 
 through the mother ship while rolling with your plane. This on the other hand is done by rubbing 
 the stylus on the touch screen to left and right. When trying to 1) steer an accelerating plane 
 carefully and at the same time 2) rubbing the touch screen quickly is in many times just too much 
 to handle. This of course causes you to do the same thing over and over again.
  
  When you combine 1) the lack of strategic freedom of choice, 2) Fog of War, 3) strict cumulative 
 time limits and 4) those red squares when destroying a mother ship the result is a frustrating 
 game, that does not give a sense of accomplishment. It just isn&acute; t that much fun when playing 
 Starfox Command&acute; s single player campaign and even an interesting story is not enough to make 
 a significant difference.
  
  Multiplayer in Starfox Command is good fun, if you manage to find enough players to play with you. 
 This is straight forward aerial combat in deathmatch style. There are multiple choices to make 
 when playing through Wi-Fi, but the main mode is Royal Battle, where you fight against random people 
 without knowing their friend codes. In this mode you absolutely need to have 3 other players to 
 even start and if just one of them drops out in the middle of a battle, it&acute; s game over for 
 everyone. I don&acute; t understand why it needs to be like this? In Metroid Prime: Hunters or Mario 
 Kart DS the match doesn&acute; t stop if 1 or 2 players drop out.
  
  In Wi-Fi you can also choose to fight Random Battle against 1, 2 or 3 other players, who are in 
 the same rank as you are. It works just fine, but these modes are pretty much unnecessary, since 
 there already is Royal Battle mode. Of course you can also play with your friends by adding their 
 friend codes and then play via Wi-Fi or by using wireless DS to DS mode. There&acute; s also a wireless 
 single-card download play, which is great fun if you have only one copy of the game and your friend 
 wants to see what&acute; s it like to play Starfox Command.
  
  Starfox Command has a great story, frustrating single player campaign and a fun multiplayer component 
 in it. Keep these things in mind, if you are planning to spend your money on this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: CHEWY49
Rating: 3.9
Date: Jun 7, 2007 9:02 pm PT
Review:  I hate this game, they took out everything I loved about Star Fox 64, and added new dumb stuff 
 that I hate. First off they took out the abillity to put your self into the cock pit of the R-Wing. 
 Second they took out the way that you flied, instead of like going through a stage, straight thorugh, 
 you now have a stupid map that you draw lines to and then get in a fight, and where you fight is 
 a round little map like when you were doing boss fights in Star Fox 64, it just gets annoying. 
 Third they took out Pepper, I liked him a lot, he was mad cool. Fourth they made it so only one 
 ship can fly at a time, you cant be fighting with your teamates at the same time anymore. Fifth, 
 in multiplayer they took out the tank and being able to walk on your feet. Sixth, I understand 
 that its the DS and it cant have as much room as the 64 for voices but they shouldnt have what 
 they do have on their, their voices are so annoying that they really arent even voices, theyre 
 just random words said so quickly you can understand, it makes you wanna hurl your DS across the 
 room. This game sucks big time, huge waste of my money. Like Metroid Prime, the only value here 
 is in the Wi-Fi with the abillity to play with anyone without knowing their friends code. But unlike 
 Metroid their are no alternitive modes of play so its not as good. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: liugeaux
Rating: 7.8
Date: May 29, 2007 9:31 pm PT
Review:  Star Fox has been off his game recently... after the classic Star Fox 64 he has tryed to take on 
 a new image. First he was in Star fox Adventures... which was a superb Zelda game and then he was 
 in Star Fox Assault which was just a disaster. In Command Fox is back where belongs, in the sky. 
 However, he doesn't go back to his on-rail shooter roots, he takes a more of a tactical combat 
 oriented, approach to the genre. You control Fox and friends using the stylus and every other button 
 shoots. this can be uncomfortable at first but eventually become second nature. The levels are 
 turn based and you have a set number of turns to get kill all of the enemies in the level. you 
 use your stylus to navigate the overworld to encounter the enemies. The different stategies that 
 you use to make sure all of them are killed can easily affect the fights that you initiate.
  
  While playing it, Star Fox Command is addictive, but once I finished my first fun through I 
 found it hard to pick back up and play through again with different levels. This is mainly due 
 to the repetativeness of the games attack sequences. Star Fox looks and sounds great and its good 
 to see a decent 3D game on the DS, but it lacks that final bit of sparkle, that made the first 
 2 Star Fox games so darn cool. If you can get past the weird controls, you will enjoy this one... if 
 you can't just pick a Wii and buy Star Fox 64 again and wait for Nintendo to finally release a 
 proper sequel. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Enemy93
Rating: 7.5
Date: May 28, 2007 1:54 pm PT
Review:  Star Fox Command is an amazing DS game: intuitive controls, crisp, spontaneous graphics, and loveable 
 characters. Also, it contains amazing replay value and fun battles. Then whats wrong? I'll tell 
 you, but first lets talk about the good stuff.
  
  Gameplay: 6/10
  The controls take some getting used to, but they seem like a natural fit to the series. You manuever 
 your stylus across the bottom screen to turn, and although you never stop going forward, you can 
 scribble to perform barrel rolls, or touch the two buttons on the side for loops and aerial turns. 
 To fire, you'll press a button (any will do, I use the Left on the D-Pad) , and holding it will 
 aloow you to lock-on. Unofrtuantely, not all characters can lock on, but usually they will have 
 faster firing because of it.
  
  Unfortunately, the game is weighed down by turn-based battles. There's a map, and you draw lines 
 onto it showing where you want your character (s) to go. If you run out of time or lose all your 
 health you lose a ship. If you lose all your ships or fail to keep enemies away from the Great 
 Fox, you lose. On top of that, you have missiles that can take down enemies but not rockets, which 
 you'll be chasing in a fly-through-the-hoops-while firing minigame. And even more, you have limited 
 turns.
  
  Graphics: 9/10
  This is one of the best looking games on the DS. It has nice, cel-shaded character designs in the 
 between mission cut-scenes. The in battle graphics are beautiful, with cool areas and nice looking 
 ships and enemies. I love how the blasts look like plasma with their neon colours, and it just 
 adds to the intergalactic war sci-fi feel.
  
  Sound: 8/10
  Not much I can say. The music is decent, but the sound of your lasers are what grabs me and dares 
 me to put my sound up on high while in a movie theatre. Value: 10/10
  For 10-30 bucks you'll get lots of game. There are multiple endings based on your choices, each 
 with varying degrees of length. It can get frustrating that you'll play the first mission over 
 and over, but the different characters after that keep me into it.
  
  Final Word:
  A decent game that is not without its flaws.
  
  --Enemy93 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DoomBugBug
Rating: 8.8
Date: May 26, 2007 12:54 am PT
Review:  It's a brilliant game! The controls work fantastically well, when often stylus conversions are 
 complicated or too tiresome etc. But even though Starfox doesn't have a different control scheme 
 (apart from being able to invert the stylus controls) , it really doesn't matter. Maneuvering your 
 ship through the wonderful landscapes, shooting down hugely different hordes of enemies couldn't 
 feel more natural if you were piloting the ship for real. Not only is the gameplay and controls 
 great, but this game is packed full of value and has a perfect learning vurve, letting time to 
 adapt to the game before steeping up the difficulty. There are 9 different story endings and they 
 all branch off from choices you yourself make, giving the game an extra burst of fascination and 
 making it feel more like you are in command, which I suppose is the aim of the game if the name 
 is any reference.
  Not only this, but then they've stuffed in wifi mode and download play, which although doesn't 
 have a very good variety of modes and choices, is still as addictive as the single player game. 
 You constantly want to move up the rankings, which are weirdly designed. You start off at Z and 
 slowly progress up the alphabet by collecting stars which are dropped when you kill another player. 
 Finally, there's a gallery mode and training mode so you can view your past story enbdings and 
 characters and train to improve your skills. If anyone doesn't believe me that this game is brilliant, 
 they really should buy it, and if they do believe me, buy it anyway! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Girman
Rating: 8.3
Date: May 14, 2007 4:57 pm PT
Review:  When I got this game I thought I was in 4 a real treat. I wazn't. I mean it wazn't bad....... but 
 it wazn't good either. It really could have been beter. I thought it waz going 2 b better than 
 Metroid Prime: Hunters and Mario Kart 'DS combined. It waz ok. I mean, it's not all bad. Its got 
 good enough graphics. But thats not all. You play as Starfox................. no wait, u play as 
 Starfox, Krystal, Falco, Slippy, Wolf, Leon, Panther, Peppy and some new charactors, Katt, Dash, 
 Lucy, Bill, and Amanda. they all have thier diffrent ships and fuel. so u have a diffrent variety 
 2 choose from. The main point in the game is 2 beat each mothership, the same, exact way, by spinning 
 into it. U do have also a verity of enimies. The bad thing is 2 mostly move around is 2 touch ur 
 ally and move him 2 the mothership in turns. Its really stupid. Then when u encounter an enemy, 
 ur in a closed area only 2 destroy ur enemy.
  There is Wi-Fi on this but its also a little basic. Theres regular battle, 2 destroy ur opponent 
 in a certain amount of time and theres battle royal which is 2 kill the person with the most stars. 
 Pretty easy.
  
  BOTTOM LINE: This game is good, but it could have been better. It has a good use 4 the stylus but 
 not the buttons. I suggest that either u rent it or wait 4 it 2 go on sale. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DragonHunter54
Rating: 9.2
Date: May 13, 2007 8:11 am PT
Review:  This is one of the first starfox games I have ever played and as such I am not effeted by a pre 
 determined expectation of what it should be like. The stylus controls work like a charm with the 
 player becoming an expert at controlling their arwing within the first half hour. Barrel rolls, 
 loop de loops and backflips with a single tap of the stylus. The combat comes in short bursts with 
 larger fights having an almost constant need to gain vital time boosts to survive . The startegy 
 element of the game is an interesting addition with you being able to choose who you take into 
 which battles and as damage stays after battle your performance in one dog fight will determine 
 your status in the next one.
  
  Graphically the game really uses the DS's capabilitys well and the music is well suited to the 
 pace of the action with each character having their own theme tune. The storyline is your basic 
 Evil badguys try to take over the universe lark but the multiple endings add a bit of variety to 
 things. Sadly these additional endings don't add enough time to the games duration and overall 
 it is far too short. It lacks additional difficulties or a single player skirmish mode so other 
 than the story there isnt much for one person to do. The wireless dogfights are great with a group 
 of friends but the online is fairly inactive and many people drop out when their loosing.
  
  If your looking for some great dogfighting action then this is the game for you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: compugraphic
Rating: 8.8
Date: May 12, 2007 5:07 pm PT
Review:  Just like the fans have been waiting for Star Fox cammand brings the series back to roots by having 
 ONLY flying sequnces!
  
  Star Fox Command is a great overall game. When you start you well have only one path to take only 
 giving you one ending. So you may beat it in a day say Hey that was totally boring !!! But after 
 the credits role you get a special key that lets you make different chices throughout the game 
 leading to over 10 different endings.
  
  Story: The first story si O. K and the ending isn't to great. But the other endings are almost all 
 great. Some well have you crying some laughing and some well just put a smile on your face. The 
 writing is pretty good you always have the option to skip it if you just want to play. 8.2/10
 
  
  Gameplay: Game play is spectacular!! Everything from Barrel Rolls to looptie loops os controlled 
 via the touch and the time you will use any buttons is to shoot. There are more than 10 playable 
 characters each with there own unique ship. Although some ships are great you'll find others just 
 plain bad. If you have a rumble pack this game is also compatible with it and it gives the game 
 a bit more realism as you feel every shot and fire and every time you get hit. But if you do start 
 playing with the rumble pak it will later feel wierd not to. 9/10
  
  Graphics: The graphics are, like the rest of the game great. Although more cartoony than the Gamecube 
 itterations of the series it still has a nice to look to the brings thw world to life. 8.5/10
 
  
  Sound: Sound is fairly good you'll regocnize all the old tunes from previos game and the sound 
 effects are quite nice as well. But over all there arn't any spectacular tunes that you'll find 
 yourself humming when you walk away from the game. 8.5./10
  
  Replay Value: Your first playthrough (depending on if you have played Starfox before) well take 
 you maybe 5 hours tops, but after that you still have so much to do and it's really fun just trying 
 to collect all the endings. (whcich you can rewatch from the options menu.) And even when your 
 done all that you still have Wi-fi to play!9.0/10
  
  Wi-fi: Wi-fi is probably the most fun part of Star Fox Cammand. From the main Wi-fi menu you have 
 to options, Battle Royale or Random Battle 
  Battle royal put you against 3 other people of any rank (When you start your wifi carrer yo'll 
 be rank Z and as you collect more stars you''l move up until you reach rank A) Which can be hard 
 sometimes but I find that this is the mode that most people go on so it's alot easier to find opponents 
 here.
  
  In Random battle you battle 1-3 freinds or play 1-3 people of (near) the same ranking as you. Although 
 the random battles seem like the better option I usually find it impossible to find anybody one 
 it.
  
  The one other downside to Wi-Fi is that although in singler player there are over 10 different 
 ships, you can only play as the Arwing in Wi-fi. 9/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: galapiat
Rating: 9.1
Date: May 4, 2007 2:22 am PT
Review:  This is truly a great game if only you make the effort to replay once you have beaten it the first 
 time. It then unlocks challenging and unique missions on several different planets and you will 
 meet tons of different opponents and sometimes very hard to beat bosses.
  
  For example, you will chase a giant sand worm reminiscent of Dune on Festina, you will fight opponents 
 avoiding solar flares on Solar, fight a giant robotic satellite in Sector X, Y, Z, ...
  
  I wasn't particularily impressed by the game when I bought it and only played 20 minutes one the 
 first day. Some days later I beat the game in the story mode and found it short like most of the 
 other people here.
  
  Afterwards I started to replay the story taking other paths via the unlockables and it was then 
 that I got hooked. It is only at that time that I realized that this game has huge content and 
 has now become my number one game on the DS. It must have about 30 - 40 different missions, with 
 each mission including 5 - 10 fights, so you will have plenty of hours of fun.
  
  It is so addicting that it really is stealing on my sleep time, it's been two weeks that I've been 
 playing until 1 AM in the morning each time thinking ok, one last mission :-)
  
  So really try out the unlockables, you won't be disappointed 
::::::

::::::
UserName: -Tish-
Rating: 8
Date: Aug 28, 2007 4:34 pm PT
Review:  If youve ever played a Star Fox game, youd know that the series has valiantly revolved around 
 the shooting genre in both land and sky vehicles, and occasionally combat on foot. But Star Fox 
 Command has indefinitely eliminated a plethora of possibilities, narrowing it down to flying, and 
 flying alone. Then again, if you havent played a Star Fox game, you may grow to enjoy Commands 
 quirky and perpetual flying mechanics. Considering either perspective, Star Fox Command will grow 
 on you if youre patient enough to withstand the first few levels.
  
  The members of Team Star Fox have gone their separate ways, and its up to Fox to defeat the newly 
 formed adversaries, the Anglars. While Fox eventually attains his former pilots for battle, hes 
 pitted against enemy forces alone for a quantity of the time. The battlefield depicts a board game: 
 each force takes a turn and inches one step closer to the opponents base. But its your job to 
 draw paths with the stylus to intercept enemy cores and do battle. Once in battle, youll have 
 a limited amount of time to gather the enemy cores, in which there is a certain number required 
 before moving on to the next map.
  
  But its not as easy as it sounds. Every once in a while youll need to acquire a ridiculous amount 
 of cores in very few turns, and most of the time you have 150 seconds to gather them all. With 
 that said you can still gather fuel for extra time and extra turns, which are dispersed across 
 the battlefield. This strategic element is very engaging and challenging, but above all else, great 
 training for the co-op modes in Wi-Fi battles.
  
  And thats basically what the single player campaign does for you: enough training and experience 
 to tackle the big cheese in online play. The single player is extremely short  there are only 
 about five levels ranging in nine different difficulties, all of which prove to be too repetitious 
 the next time around. Online play, on the other hand, can range from the beginning of play to the 
 end of time. You begin at rank Z and work your way up by destroying other players ships and collecting 
 their cores. The more cores you attain per game the more your percentage will rise. Its really 
 an appealing feature to utilize, and the gratification is wholesomely satisfying, especially if 
 you manage to become addicted to it.
  
  Everything you use, from bombs to speed boosts to u-turns  all of these concepts are displayed 
 through the touch screen, even flying in general. The only time youll ever not use the stylus 
 is to shoot (L) , which at times can get uncomfortable, but in the long run its a great achievement 
 that works well. While you may think it would be difficult to pilot a ship using the stylus, its 
 quite easy to maneuver and depict your surroundings once you get the hang of it. In all honesty, 
 the entire control system is one of the best Ive ever experienced on the DS.
  
  Graphically showcased, Star Fox Command looks brilliant, but theres a lack of visual and motion 
 feed that was regularly present in past Star Fox adventures. The characters are always motionless; 
 the only things that youll ever see moving are your aircraft, the enemys aircraft, and the lasers 
 from your cannon firing off into the distance. In a way, the background scenery feels rushed and 
 sloppy, like a montage straight from the NES itself. On the other hand, the ships diving, crashing, 
 shooting, and looping looks decent, and portrayed to be thought out a little more clearly. Youre 
 not getting the best graphics the DS has to offer, but theyre a solid attribute to the core emphasis. 
 Since the characters are rather motionless, so are their voices. In fact, the entire game is depicted 
 in subtitles, yet the characters antagonistically spew out gibberish talk like chipmunks (as if 
 it wasnt weird enough seeing foxes and falcons talking and piloting space crafts) . Its quite 
 easy to tell that this wasnt the best effort in the audio category; a lot of the sound effects 
 are annoying and, to an extent, distracting. The bombs dont sound like bombs, the flying is even 
 a bit off its rocker, and most lamenting of all, theres an excessive amount noises that just seem 
 to emit out of no where. You could be strategizing your movements while absurd noises eject from 
 the speakers. On the other hand, you might not find them annoying if you like deep, disproportionate 
 warnings of an enemy on the premises.
  
  All in all, Star Fox Command is a great game just for its engaging online modes and co-op campaigns. 
 The single player game is enjoyable while it lasts, but theres a small chance that youll go back 
 and replay through it. If you dont have a Wi-Fi connection, you might just want to rent this one.
 
  
  -Tish- 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ghangiskhan1
Rating: 6.5
Date: Nov 2, 2007 10:21 pm PT
Review:  The Star Fox series has definitely had it's ups and downs. Let's take a quick look back on popular 
 space shooter, shall we?
  Star Fox (1993, SNES) It all starts here with the original Star Fox. It was fun, had cool 3D graphics 
 and was challenging. A must-own for SNES gamers back then.
  Star Fox 64 (1997, N64) This game came with a rumble pack and had awesome multiplayer to back up 
 for it's short single player with no save option. It is probably the best known game in the series.
 
  Star Fox Adventures (2002, GCN) Originally meant for the N64 as a game called 'Dinosaur Planet', 
 Rare brought it to the GCN and included Star Fox characters only for it to go down as one of the 
 most disappointing sequels of all time.
  Star Fox Assault (2005, GCN) Star Fox Assault was much better than Adventures, and it brought on 
 foot gun fights but it was still missing something. As good a game as it was, it got repetitive 
 sometimes, mainly the on-foot missions, and it was very short. However, a great multiplayer mode 
 backed it up.
  
  So as you see, Star Fox has changed quite a bit and with Command it has changed too. For example, 
 a new RTS style of gameplay is found but unfortunately it is not nearly as deep as any other RTS. 
 It is still pretty challenging and requires you to think, it's just that it goes by so fast that 
 it hardly feels like an RTS. To control in RTS mode you use the stylus to draw paths for your characters 
 to go and you are limited to a certain amount of turns or phases. Most of the time you have to 
 be exactly right because you have a very small amount of turns so you want to get the enemy and 
 then the base or whatever you need to and destroy everything before it's too late. If you mess 
 up once and lose all your turns or lives, it's a failure so expect to see quite a bit of try and 
 die situations.
  
  On the other hand, this game is a space shooter in which once again you piloting a star ship and 
 you must blast all of the enemies away. However, this time it is not a rail shooter like past Star 
 Fox games. You are in a big open map and you go anywhere you want as you fight enemies. You can 
 also do a lot of moves and techniques such as getting bombs and missiles, and of course, the barrel 
 roll. ( Fox, do a barrel role! ) The enemies all have life bars and to be honest, they're not really 
 that tough at all and a lot of them don't even try to go after you. There are also the bosses which 
 are all pretty easy except, oddly enough, the first boss.
  
  The space shooting mode only has touch screen controls which is a disappointment because for some 
 it might have just been easier to use the D-Pad to move. Instead, you move with the stylus and 
 the touch screen and shoot and do other attacks and moves with the buttons. I'm assuming Nintendo 
 really wanted it to be a touch screen focused game even though it would've been just as good, if 
 not better, if you could move your ship with the D-Pad. Put that aside, and it controls decent 
 enough and using the stylus to aim works well at least.
  
  Graphically, it's a great looking game if you put aside the RTS parts which have really simplistic 
 designs. The RTS parts are all in very simple 2D designs that would've slipped on the GBA or GBC 
 but on the Nintendo DS, it just looks pretty outdated. But at the same time, portable RTS games 
 don't have very high standards for graphics so it won't cause too much of a problem as long as 
 you can get over the fact that this could have been done on a Gameboy Color. But there is also 
 the space shooting portions of the game which are in 3D and certainly could not have been done 
 on even the GBA. There bits looks great and resemble the Nintendo 64's graphical powers from maybe 
 1996-1997. The enemies and bosses are pretty well detailed and the backgrounds look pretty good 
 as well. When you're playing the space shooting bits of the game, you're looking at a great piece 
 of graphical work, however I cannot say the same about the RTS bits.
  
  The sound is probably the lowest part of this game. The music and sound effects are fine but they 
 are not that great either. If you've ever played Star Fox 64 you'll soon notice how great the music 
 sounds and that it has voice acting too. I'm positive the team behind Command could've put mini 
 voice samples in, however, it seems like they might have gotten lazy in that department. Instead, 
 you do get quite a bit of dialogue but all of it sounds like those voices in a game like Animal 
 Crossing, only quite a bit worse. There actually are no voices, just random noises made when the 
 animals talk. There is an included feature where you record your voice into the DS using the microphone 
 and then when the characters squeal, they are supposed to sound like you but that feature doesn't 
 work so well. At least there are pretty good sound effects and a decent soundtrack included.
  
  Included with the game is a four player Wi-Fi multiplayer mode which may convince Wi-Fi users 
 to give this game a try. In the Wi-Fi matches you can play with up to four players over the internet 
 or more with local play. In the Wi-Fi matches you try to eliminate all the other opponents and 
 collect stars that they leave when they die. You play a few rounds and then declare the winner 
 by seeing whoever has the most stars. Also, the multiplayer matches are only the space shooting 
 bits so don't expect to see the RTS bits; and there really isn't much depth to them. They're decent 
 but if you want a better Wi-Fi experience try Mario Kart DS or Metroid Prime Hunters.
  
  This game is extremely short, however it has multiple endings so the 45 minute long core game will 
 seem a lot longer beating it nine times. Plus, the levels alternate as well and to get each ending 
 you will unlock levels you've never played before which keeps the experience fresh. But still, 
 it is a very short game and the core game will take you 45 minutes or less. It's a little challenging 
 too but after one failure or so, you'll get the hang of it. The Wi-Fi multiplayer matches add some 
 value, but not enough unless you are completely devoted to it.
  
  Overall, Star Fox Command is a decent game but it's far from the best in the series. The RTS bits 
 are interesting, and certainly could be expanded to make a greater game along with the multiplayer, 
 as long as they add more depth to it next time. Also, the developers need to make Star Fox games 
 much longer to fix the series. Other than that, it's a pretty decent game which may deserve a spot 
 in your Nintendo DS library depending on if you think it sounds like a great game after reading 
 my review. Honestly, I'd skip it and get New Super Mario Bros. or a better DS game, but if you've 
 played all the great DS games except this, then give it a try. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: slippers957
Rating: 7.4
Date: Apr 16, 2007 8:57 pm PT
Review:  I guess I just feel let down. I popped it in when I got my DS Lite and was all excited. Great! 
 Another Star Fox game and it was for the only console I have!!! YAY!
  
  Not so much. I guess the feeling I got when I beat it after not even 5 hours was, Is that it? Am 
 I done? 
  
  In a way, that's not bad, but, it almost makes me regret buying it.
  
  The games starts off like you're going to go on crazy missions and save the Lylat system again, 
 like the 64 version, but, the Single Player was really cut short. After they found Krystal and 
 talked about how they were going to go save Wolf's little brigade, I thought, Oh, so it's a bunch 
 of mini series' all put together into one game; that isnt too bad! But after I finished beating 
 the big angler boss, (which was so easy, it was actually boring) it ended with ROB saying that 
 he found Wolf and his team, and then General Peppy sent a transmission.
  
  It then cut into a story mode and was DONE!
  
  No joke, at 10 O'Clock at night, I almost screamed, 
 That's all??? at the top of my lungs while my 6 y/o brother was fast asleep and my parents were 
 not too far behind.
  
  The single player mode left a bad taste in my mouth.
  
  The multi-player mode was not real different.
  
  What can I say? The graphics are pretty good, 
 with some nice sprites and animation. The screened art is great, espically the ending shots, those 
 are nice, but lets not delve off the multi-player topic.
  
  The Wi-Fi connection for this game, and any other game except for MarioKart DS, is pretty bad. 
 It doesnt give you the option to have someone drop out and then you and the other 2 goons have 
 the ability to play. Instead, it just says something like, Whoops! Someone disconnected so that 
 means YOU GET NONE OF THE POINTS YOU JUST WON! haha! Oh, and did we mention that you now get put 
 back to the main Wi-Fi screen? 
  Sad.
  
  The only thing that is worth really boldening that's good in this game are the graphics... thats 
 all folks.
  
  A mediocre game this is and I'm ashamed to say that it's not much more than a time filler for an 
 I cant sleep or do anything else. All my other games are in the car. What's in my DS? Oh StarFox? 
 Wonderful, I'll beat it in 4 1/2 minutes and then be ready for bed! 
  
  And so it 
  Okay, so TOTALLY BLEW my ship out of the 
 water. Once you unlock the key of destiny, everything changes! Its like one of those mystery books 
 that we used to read in grade school that never end because there are so many endings! Crazy huh? 
 I know it. Just go ahead and play the game again. Humor me! And then you can unlock some incredible 
 stuff! It's so cool! The gameplay is still pretty dull. No RAILS LEVELS!!! Thats just being lazy.
 
  
  But, like I said, theres hidden levels and EVERYTHING GETS UNLOCKED!!! Now its getting good.
 
  
  And so we go... again... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: boku14
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 9, 2007 9:12 pm PT
Review:  Oh, no! Not ANOTHER Star Fox game! ok ok, this game is not that bad. All of the classic Star Foxs 
 heros and villains return to make your life a living hell in Star Fox Command, for the DS.
  
  Now, you if are into the whole concept of large talking pink frogs attacking large talking 
 yellow monkeys (other then making your shrink alot of money) your going to love this game!
  
  So, you play Fox (shocker) you and your team, Star Fox, have split up. Due to the fact that 
 you guys have just killed everything there is to kill! But then, a new evil comes! Yes, thats right, 
 large talking purple fish!! So, you have to go around your rather small galaxy, getting the team 
 back together. And slay countless enemy ships on your way.
  
  Now, the storyline plays out like any other Star Fox game, you trying to save the galaxy from some 
 super evil, super dumb looking, bad guy. But, this time, they added more to it then that! Each 
 mission starts out with you looking at a map of the battle area. From this map, you will tell where 
 your fighters should go. But this map moving mode, is turn based. And controlled through the touch-screen. 
 Now once you move one of your fighters onto an enemy ship/base you will go into Battle Mode! In 
 battle mode you will control your little fighter like in a Fighter combat sim. This mix of Turn-based 
 movement, and Fighter Combat Sim battles, is fun and a fresh change.
  
  Now, the next thing they added, was that after you win the rather easy storyline, you can start 
 the story over again, and change what you do. For example. One of the first missins is to go find 
 slippy (oh man, not him!) . Now, after you win the game you can chnage that. And go find Falco, 
 instead. Which changes the storyline ALOT. So you can have many endings. From Starting Star Falco 
 to becoming an Uber Super Hyper Hero! Then theres a very fun multiplayer mode, where you can run 
 around and shoot your friends all day long! What more do you need?
  
  In short:
  
  Talking Pink Frogs + Turn-Based movement + Fighter Combat Sim + Change-able storyline + Good Multiplayer 
 = 10/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SaxxyGamer18
Rating: 7
Date: Oct 10, 2007 2:35 pm PT
Review:  The Good: Mostly amazing control scheme; clean, albeit simple graphics; good online dogfights; 
 no ground levels.
  
  The Bad: Tactical gameplay is boring and juvenile; none of the classic rail-shooter levels at all; 
 really bad soundtrack and voice work; many controls should have been assigned to the buttons; not 
 a lot of lasting appeal.
  
  The old Star Fox games are true classics. That's why it's so sad when there hasn't been a decent 
 title since Star Fox 64. Star Fox Adventures was more of a Zelda-style game, and Star Fox Assault 
 was way too focused on the lousy ground levels. Star Fox Command is a great step in the right direction, 
 as Fox is only in the air once again, but there are so many shortcomings that it is kept from true 
 greatness.
  
  Q-Games has found an excellent way of translating the Star Fox flight controls to the touch screen. 
 The fantastic controls are easily the highlight of this game. Shooting is mapped to the buttons, 
 and movement, maneuvers, and bombs are all mapped to the touch screen. It works like a dream, and 
 it's especially good for the multiplayer dogfights.
  
  Unfortunately, none of the other modes are particularly great for a very long time. The story mode 
 is at least fairly interesting, as it's every bit as much a tactical game as it is a space shooter. 
 The levels are way too short, though, and the difficulty level is rather low. There isn't a lot 
 of replay value here, unless you really want to see all of the ten or so endings.
  
  It's too bad there's none of the classic rail shooter levels here, which probably would have been 
 a much better choice. The focus is on the large open free-movement levels and the tactical portions, 
 so none of that is here.
  
  The graphics in Star Fox Command are basic, but they get the job done. The ship models are decent 
 and the explosions are nice, but the DS has seen better. The soundtrack is downright awful, sounding 
 like a mix between Pokemon Stadium and older Star Fox games, and the gibberish voice work is irritating.
 
  
  It's good to see that Star Fox is completely in the sky now, but there's just too many little quirks 
 and low production values that keep the game from the kind of greatness it could have achieved. 
 If this same gameplay was applied to a classic-style Star Fox game, a true masterpiece could be 
 achieved. Let's see it, Nintendo! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Tellyn
Rating: 8
Date: Apr 6, 2007 1:08 pm PT
Review:  Old Fox McCloud hasn't had much luck on Nintendo consoles since the Nintendo64 adventure Lylat 
 Wars. Rare's ultimate game for the GameCube before the Microsoft buy-out, Star Fox Adventures, 
 wasn't very well received at all. Though it was a decent adventure game in the vein of Zelda, it 
 wasn't what fans wanted. Star Fox Assault was more on track, but not quite there. Again, not well 
 received. Star Fox Command returns Fox to his roots in this epic 3D shooter.
  
  OK, so the storyline isn't fantastic. A new threat, erm, threatens the Lylat System and Fox must 
 rally the broken Star Fox team to defeat the Anglar forces. The dialogue is cringeworthy, the stuff 
 of made for TV movies. And yet, the gameplay is extremely decent. Imagine how legendary the game 
 could be if they worked on the storyline and characters. Saying that though, there are plenty of 
 developed characters that you can play as once you meet them or use them in a battle. The gallery 
 on the single player menu allows you to look at character profiles and background info.
  
  Graphics wise, the game has a nice chunky 3D style, more polished and improved than the unreleased 
 Star Fox 2 on the SNES. The backgrounds and level design is quite brilliant, always nice and colourful 
 and there's a lot of eyecatching scenery. The DS has had better, for instance Super Mario 64, but 
 it's one of the nicer looking 3D games.
  
  To be edited. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: clutzyaj
Rating: 7
Date: Mar 27, 2007 2:50 pm PT
Review:  Back in the day when Starfox 64 was released, it was considered one of the more successful games 
 of the Starfox franchise. Starfox Command goes back to that formula, but it's nothing like the 
 over-glorified Mario 64 DS got. Let's just say it's a good soup with a bad after taste.
  
  It turns out that once again the Lylat system is in trouble, but this time they are under attack 
 by the angular (I think) forces. And like your typical SF game, team Starfox is called upon except 
 with one twist: everyone except Fox has quit and it makes him look like the only doctor in a full 
 emergency room.
  
  The game's controls through out are what eat your lunch. The DS stylus is used to pilot the ships 
 that fly throughout the game. It takes some severe getting used to, and you'll kick yourself every 
 time you die. Other functions work well, but the use of joystick is what you need for this game.
 
  
  As you progress through the game, you'll encounter more characters. The big thing here is the fact 
 you don't always have play as Fox, you'll be able to pilot other character's ships, each with some 
 different stats and weapons. At some points when make a decession, you'll sometimes wind up either 
 flying alone or using team Starwolf, or for all the manly gammers, an all female group.
  
  Though game offers a great selection of characters, it is probably the off-color development that 
 they go through. Falco acts like he's dopped up too often, Krystal is complete off-set and far 
 from being lady-like, and some of the worst is in characters like Panther, Katt, and Peppy, all 
 whom seem to have deterated over the years. There's no dialouge, but instead vox noises for characters. 
 However, instead of getting mush-mouth 3 second splirts at the beginning of phrases, you get something 
 that sounds like your little cousin smashing a keyboard.
  
  The music is pretty much MIDI like you won't believe, but it's pretty good. Most of it is just 
 sax and string heavy versions of SF64's music, but you also have original character themes that 
 somewhat suit each person. If you really want it shine, set the voices on machine, since they won't 
 sound.
  
  Wi-Fi is nice, and you'll have a good time fighting friends, but that's pretty much what this game 
 is for. Sure, you have 9 different endings, but in literal sense, this game is better for the older 
 SF fans who absoulutley HATE Adventures and Assault. However, if your a Starfox fan to the bone 
 then this game will be just another sour, but good game in your collection. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dragonslayer22
Rating: 6.8
Date: Mar 27, 2007 8:24 am PT
Review:  Star Fox 64 was awesome! This, however is not that game, as much as it tries to be. Like Star Fox 
 64, McCloud and company stay in vehicles the entire time and have the choice of alternate routes 
 through the game. Old enemies like Star Wolf return, and most of the game takes place in small 
 arena areas or in Panzer Dragoon Orta style linear paths. The new additions this time around include 
 a strategy minigame that lets you pick which areas on a planet map to go to. Since there is usually 
 lots of fog covering these maps, you end up having to go through a lot of trial and error to get 
 to your objective. These are turned-based segments where you get to move, and clear a little fog 
 away (with the stylus) , then the enemies get a turn to move. There's usually only one or two right 
 strategies, which kinda' takes away any free choices you may think you have. And your first couple 
 times on eahc of these map minigames will usually result in one of the enemy getting through your 
 defenses and blowing up your mothership. Another addition is full stylus movement control. It's 
 very finicky and very hard to get used to. After 6 hours of play on this game I still couldn't 
 quite get the hang of it. It's not all bad though. The gameplay, while flawed is still pretty addictive, 
 it's worth it for die-hard Star Fox fans. Everyone else should just play MechAssault. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: oceanshoreview
Rating: 6.3
Date: Mar 21, 2007 8:28 pm PT
Review:  Starfox 64 is one of my favorite games of all time and I was hoping I would get something along 
 those lines again with Starfox Command, but I was sadly mistaken.
  
  Starfox Command tried to take a tactical approach to the Starfox universe and incorporate the free 
 range flying into it. So, let me break down how the game works.
  You start off in a 2D top-down view area where you see your ship (Fox's) , the Command Base ship 
 and some enemy ships. You have a set number of turns to take out all the enemies and you can move 
 X distance per turn. You draw out the path you want Fox to take on a turn and if he runs into a 
 ship you fight it.
  
  The ship fights go into an open range 3D flight battle. In here you'll control Fox's ship with 
 your stylus on screen and shoot with the shoulder buttons. After defeating all enemies in an area 
 you go back out to the tactics part to try and take on any enemies left.
  
  Eventually you get more ships on your side and you have more enemies to defeat. Nintendo also thought 
 it would be a grand idea to start to cover the screen in fog so that you can't see whats where. 
 Now, to be fair, you can wipe off some of this fog using the stylus, but only a small amount so 
 you can't fully reveal the screen.
  
  While this may sound like a good thing to you tactics freaks, it's really a load of BS. It leaves 
 the difficulty of the game to be all about luck since you can't see where everything is and you 
 could take a low route while all the ships are up on the high end then you just have to do it again 
 because you only learn through failure. I must commend the game though for having some awesome 
 flying parts. The controls feel wonderful and it looks stunning. I couldn't get enough of the flying 
 parts, but the tactics were so bad that I didn't even want to get to flying anymore. The multiplayer 
 was pretty lame as well. You and your buds all appear in an open range area and you battle it out. 
 It's not nearly as fun as it sounds... did it even sound fun? There's really nothing more to say 
 about that.
  
  In the end this game had potential had they kept it 64 style and been flying the whole time through 
 areas, but instead they decided to do something new with the series that turned it to crap. Maybe 
 they'll get it right next time. Don't waste your money. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: reidwii1
Rating: 8.8
Date: Mar 16, 2007 9:09 pm PT
Review:  starfox adventures, starfox assault..... all good games... great games. but star fox 64 is what i fell 
 in love with. its not the same. but close.
  
  starfox 64 was the second game i played for over 25 hours. first being mario 64. after fox ,zelda. but 
 the point is, adventures and assault were great i ranked a 9.1 on both of them. and they might be 
 better than command. but command brought me back to the glory days. solely arwing!
  
  GAMEPLAY: the game play is like i said classic. but you use the stylus to manuver your arwing which 
 can cramp your fingures at times .any button to blast. it is great to do this because its simple. not 
 all the missions are simple but the fighting is. you use a map to get from place to place. which 
 is fun. i cant say much about because its very straight forword. i dont have wi-fi for my ds [i 
 know it sucks] but i played it on my freinds and it is a blast!
  
  GRAPHICS: the graphics ,to me, are flat out great. the battle graphics more than any thing. fox dosnt 
 look the best out of the last few games [considering they changethem every time!] but its alright 
 i guess. the mountaines look great as well.
  
  SOUND: the whole talking thing were they just go'blah blah blah blah' is kind of annoying. the battle 
 noises are great though.
  
  VALUE: any srafox gamer, a must must have! any ds gamer... try it. if you like metroid are any other 
 shooter you will like it .im reidwii1! till next time! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Jcbx3
Rating: 7.8
Date: Mar 15, 2007 8:48 pm PT
Review:  this game is good because it follows the stories of previous star fox games such as star fox 64, 
 star fox assault, and so on though multi-player is great they could have done a better job maybe 
 putting a character selection and by making it where if one person quits he is out and the match 
 keeps going it is sooooooooo annoying when sum one droppes out. This game is the opposite of hunters 
 good single player but multi-player could be better hunters was great multi-player but bad single 
 player. One of my pet peeves about this game was the voice acting it was like the original NES 
 version when they sounded a little like this askjbfliahslkasbldf rather than saying actual words.
 
  
  Touch control for me was a dream it felt like I was actually flying a little ship rather than a 
 control stick this makes it much easier and more precise control. The way they made every button 
 the shoot button makes this game very easy and comfortable for pretty much any one to play. The 
 various story line branches amke you want to play it more and more till you beat every way and 
 wonder what happens to Fox and his crew. Although after you get the hang of it this games single 
 player gets very easy I get a perfect on every battle for example. Like I said though if you like 
 star fox you will like this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DryBones1800
Rating: 8.7
Date: Mar 16, 2007 10:41 pm PT
Review:  Heres the good things about this game:
  
  This game has a good mix of controls; sound is pretty good; always a blast to battle other people 
 wi-fi; this game even has a voice recording feature; just addictive.
  
  Heres the bad things about this game:
  
  When you battle wi-fi, variety is limited. For example, 
 you can't chose what color ship you are in battles, there is no co-op, can't vote on which map, 
 only friend battle, battle royal, 1 on 1, and 3 players. And on some of the ships, the standard 
 laser is pretty cheesy. It is only better when you get power ups.
  
  So you must be asking, should I buy this or not? . Well I say go on ahead and buy it! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nintendians
Rating: 1.6
Date: Mar 7, 2007 12:27 pm PT
Review:  When I first play this game, I though that is going to be great, but it wasn't. The control sucks, 
 it hard to turn left or right, the targeting system seem boring. The graphics seems like between 
 32-to-64 bit, it wasn't nearly as good as other DS title. The sound wasn't that good either. I 
 felt the value this game was like trash, I felt stupid just touching that game too. Nintendo shouldn't 
 hire Q Game again, Star Fox Command was the worst game ever in Star Fox history to date, the voice 
 ended up like Star Fox for the SNES, I just hated when you have to listen to them, + even Midna 
 (Twilight Princess) talk gibblish like them, but it sound much better then Fox and the rest of 
 the Star Fox gang does, the ending was stupid, even though I have seen it from other sites. If 
 I was you SF fans, don't even look at it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: LOZFAN6537
Rating: 7.8
Date: Mar 1, 2007 12:50 pm PT
Review:  Star Fox Command is the fifth game in Nintendo's Star Fox series and is also the first to appear 
 on a portable system. The game changes many things from the last game some good most bad. Star 
 Fox Command takes place many years after Star Fox Assault. Peace has returned to the Lylat system 
 and Team Star Fox has broken up each member going his or her separate ways. Of course not too long 
 after Team Star Fox broke up trouble has once again returned to the Lylat system this time in the 
 form of the Angler forces. Youll spend the majority of the game reassembling Team Star Fox and 
 of course once the team is back together the game ends.
  
  The gameplay in Star Fox Command has changed greatly from Star Fox Assault. Youll notice a major 
 change as soon as you start the first level. When you start the level it looks almost exactly like 
 Advance Wars. You then strategically move you ships to destroy the enemies. But you only have a 
 certain amount of turns to destroy all of the enemies. While youre looking at the battlefield 
 your enemies will appear as red dots most of the time to engage in combat with them you have to 
 cut them off. Once you do this you will engage in combat if more then one of your planes if attacking 
 an enemy youll be able to choose which enemy to fight first. Once you have chosen an enemy to 
 fight youll go into a 3D battlefield which looks more like the old Star Fox games. Here is where 
 the other major difference comes in. To control your ship you use the touch screen you do everything 
 but fire on the touch screen. The way this works is really nice and makes it a lot easier. But 
 there are two really annoying things about the space battles. The first being to complete each 
 level you have to collect enemy cores when youre in combat there are certain enemies that you 
 have to kill these enemies give you cores once you collect all the cores the little level is over. 
 Having to collect cores would make it insanely easy if you didnt have a time limit but you do. 
 If you fail to collect all of the enemy cores in the time limit you lose a life. There are three 
 types of battles that you will have to do during the course of the game. There are normal battles 
 which I already described where you destroy the enemies and get all the cores before time runs 
 out. There are also Bases located on the battlefield these are like normal battle you destroy the 
 enemies and get the cores but after that you have to fly through these square beacons and hit a 
 mothership with a rolling attack. The last type of battles are missiles these are like destroying 
 the motherships you have to fly through a series of beacons and catch up to the missile once you 
 are close enough to the missile you have to fire as fast as you can to destroy the missile while 
 going through all of the beacons.
  
  There is also a multiplayer mode that you can do on either DS Download Play or Wi-Fi. The multiplayer 
 mode is a lot like the one featured in Star Fox 64. But not as fun and really annoying at times 
 because if you destroy a fighter you arent automatically credited with the kill. You have to fly 
 over and pick up a little star that is dropped when you kill some one. Other then that really annoying 
 thing the multiplayer is pretty good.
  
  The graphics are very good considering the limited capabilities of the DS. The characters look 
 really nice during the dialogue cutscenes. And they look even better during the space battles. 
 But while youre looking at the battlefield the graphics are plain and boring.
  
  The sound is where Star Fox Command really falls short. In the past games the voice acting is really 
 where the games have excelled. But in Star Fox Command the no real voice acting instead you get 
 gibberish that sounds like the animals in Animal Crossing. Also to make this worse the majority 
 of the lines in the game are very stupid. But the sound isnt all bad the sound effects are great 
 and the soundtrack is awesome like most Star Fox games. The value in Star Fox Command isnt very 
 good. It takes about two hours to complete the game the first time through. But once you have beaten 
 it you can go through the game again and choose other paths that alter the story and take you to 
 different levels. This at least gives you a reason to play through the game more then once. All 
 in all Star Fox Command is a pretty good game that couldve been better if it had stuck to the 
 same formula the past games used. Its also a short game which makes it better for a rental but 
 if youre a hardcore Star Fox fan you should pick it up its a good game just not as good as the 
 other games in the series
  
  ~LOZFAN6537 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hoihoi8
Rating: 5.6
Date: Feb 27, 2007 9:32 pm PT
Review:  After finishing the single player game, I am very disappointed in this game. Star Fox 64 was one 
 of the best games for that system. Mario 64 DS proved you could recreate a 64 game on the DS, but 
 Star Fox doesn't even come close. The total lack of rail levels was out of pure laziness by the 
 developers. Rail levels take detailed level design and creativity. Instead all this game does is 
 throw a square flat terrain at you with a few enemies to shoot. No hills to dodge or archways to 
 fly through. The strategy battle screen is completely worthless. There is only 1-2 possible ways 
 you could beat the level. You send each of your 3-4 ships down each of the 3-4 corridors. I found 
 this to be a total drag.
  
  Also, the number of times you are forced to catch a missile or destroy a base ship is repetitive 
 and downright boring.
  
  Needless to say, if you can't play this game online DON'T BUY THIS GAME. Rail levels are what made 
 this game great, not boring open flight missions with lame terrain, no buildings or obstacles, 
 no goals (remember the gold stars in the N64 version) , and very very short. I finished the single 
 player mode in 2 sittings : (
  
  I'm just very glad I paid for this with a gift certificate. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: PoeTokoro
Rating: 7
Date: Feb 24, 2007 2:01 pm PT
Review:  Hello this is Poe Tokoro with the review of Star Fox: Command.
  
  Story: The game's story is great... if it had more looks to it. The game is told between levels 
 with 2 to 6 characters blabbing on and on about the situation at hand. The thing that will get 
 most Star Fox fans mad is the fact that the N64 could hold voice acting but as advanced as the 
 DS is, the game can't hold 1 second of voice acting. This ruins the entire story mode and will 
 make you wish there was a skip button the first time through.
  
  Gameplay: The game controls great, and is a blast to play. This is by far the best part about SFC. 
 The only thing about this game that is bad is the levels. The game never has any of the old-style 
 levels where you follow predetermined paths to get through the level. Instead you are in open levels 
 and are forced to beat the crap out of certain enemies. This works fine for training you to play 
 online, but overall feels out of place due to old Star Fox games using the predetermined path levels 
 that were the highlights of those games.
  
  Sound: The game's music is excellent and you will love listening to it. The sound for the lasers 
 aren't bad and definitely won't get you mad. But the lack of voices in exchange for the crappy 
 weird sounds was definitely not the way to go.
  
  Multiplayer/Wifi: The multi player is very fun... for a little while. After a couple of download 
 play matches and the retarded multi-card exchange will definitely make you bored of the multi-player. 
 Wi-fi is no fun due to the fact that single player mode has nothing to do with your rank and does 
 fighting your friends on wi-fi. And like Mario Kart, there is no way to communicate with each other. 
 Which is heart-breaking due to the fact that Metroid is able to text and chat.
  
  Overall: After a week with this game you will want to throw it away so I suggest renting it first.
 
  
  -Poe Tokoro 
::::::

::::::
UserName: monkeytoes61
Rating: 7.4
Date: Feb 24, 2007 11:30 am PT
Review:  Star Fox: Command is an action/strategy game and is the debut appearance of Star Fox on the DS. 
 The Star Fox team has split up after defeating Andross but now the Lylat System is under attack 
 by the Anglors, who very much resemble Aparoids for Star Fox: Assault. You start out with just 
 Fox but soon will find Slippy, Falco, and Krystal. Other characters will show up for a mission 
 or two like Lucy, Peppy's daughter or Amanda, Slippy's Fiance'. Each mission is broken down into 
 strategic battles where you draw flight paths for your pilot (s) . Sounds like a nice twist to the 
 casual shoot em' up right? Not quite. These strategic maps are boring and have some definite problems. 
 You have a certain amount of turns to finish your objective. These turns disappear quickly and 
 unless you can get more by defeating a mother ship it's game over. You also have a time limit for 
 how long you can stay in the air. This wouldn't be a problem if each fighter didn't share fuel. 
 Since when do 4 fighters share the same source of fuel? The way to win each mission is to defeat 
 all enemies and get their cores. No it isn't enough just to shoot them down but then you have to 
 get their cores? Lame. When one of your pilots meets with a group of fighters you enter combat. 
 There are usually 20-30 enemies in the combat zone but you are given the tedious task of hunting 
 down just a few of them and getting their cores. This takes up much and doesn't give you the feel 
 of flying around and blasting all in your path. This makes flying not so fun. The story is really 
 dumb. Old enemies of Star Fox will suddenly show up for no reason and attack you. Perhaps if you 
 didn't finish the game in 30 minutes they could have come up with an interesting anf fun story. 
 But don't count on it. At least the graphics are nice and everything runs pretty smoothly. Well 
 I was disappointed and I'm sure you will be too unless you are in love with Star Fox. If you aren't, 
 don't buy this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: -shmelo-
Rating: 6.5
Date: Feb 22, 2007 5:44 pm PT
Review:  Star Fox for the DS is a nifty game, the graphics are good but theres this new gameplay style which 
 involves some turn based elements before getting into dog fights. This new turn based method kinda 
 sorta sucks. The game is outrageously hard at points and uber easy at others (the second level 
 is like impossible...) . So the single player is kind of a drag.
  
  What makes this game great and fantastic is the online four player battles. There really fun, because 
 its 24/7 dog fighting! The multi-player is practically worth buying the game itself.
  
  The controls aren't too bad, they involve the DS quite well and take some getting used to. After 
 a while playing with them, you get really good at it. But it takes time to get remotely good for 
 some online battles.
  
  In conclusion I would say this is to be rented unless of course your a fox fan. Its worth buying, 
 but the multiplayer is the only reason for that, so if you don't have wi-fi then don't buy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: soulsdeparting
Rating: 5.2
Date: Feb 16, 2007 4:54 pm PT
Review:  This is the worst buy i have ever made for a videogame. and i didnt even pay for it, I got it for 
 christmas and i felt sorry for my parents to have tp pay for this piece of garbage. Yes Fox returning 
 to his ship is great, and the controls work well, every battle is the same. You fly around in a 
 certain area and shoot down from 1 to 15 of maybe 10 different kinds of ships. Thats it. To destroy 
 a mothership, you fly through large squares that offfer no challenge.
  
  The drawing the flight paths for each tuurn is a good idea, but after 10 seconds it become too 
 easy to use, and not fun. What could have made it into a fun startegy is instead overhwlmingly 
 simple and really only made me think like once.
  
  The only good thing is there is more than one story, and ou can play it more than one time and 
 get so many different storylines and endings that it is amazing, But when each of these is over 
 in half an hour ( i beat it three times in 1 hour 25 minutes) , it creates an extremely boring 
 game.
  
  Do not buy this. please. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Pendragon613
Rating: 7.8
Date: Feb 14, 2007 10:34 am PT
Review:  This game is great for a portable but it could have definitely been better. During each level you 
 get a map of your ships and your enemies ships and must maneuver your ships to take out all your 
 enemies ships before you run out of turns. You move each ship on the overhead map of the level 
 using the stylus maneuvering around obstacles and trying to pass through each of your enemies ships 
 and bases. You can only move your ship 1/3 across the map in one turn though, less since you have 
 to go around obstacles and through all your enemies fleets. After you draw your route you see your 
 ship move along the map and every time it hits an enemy ship/base you go into a battle scene which 
 is very much like the N64 or Assault space battle levels. This system works fairly well but the 
 fact that you only have a certain amount of turns is one of the major things in this game that's 
 illogical (yes, there is more than one illogical thing) . There is also a lot less flying around 
 and shooting stuff than there should be in a Star Fox game. The game's storyline is very short 
 although there is a very-much-needed second-play-through. There is no voice acting, instead you 
 hear the character make squabbling noises while you read text at the bottom of the screen. This 
 can get very annoying and will make you want to turn the volume off. There are DS download play 
 and Wi-Fi functions in this game but its nothing special. There is not enough space on the fields 
 to move around as much as I would like. The lack of healing items also makes these modes less fun 
 than they could have been. Despite the fact that I've been slamming this game a bit (okay a lot) 
 in this review it still has a rock-solid base and is worth getting, especially for Star Fox fans. 
 The Wi-Fi and DS Download play functions can be fun as long as the players are evenly matched (although 
 this is rare) . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Thevincent56
Rating: 8.9
Date: Feb 14, 2007 5:54 pm PT
Review:  GAMEPLAY ----9----. Great gameplay. Except, the controls are hard, and Slippy has a girlfriend?? 
 (he probably bribed her....) Anyway, the storyline is great, it comes with multiple endings, and 
 wi-fi is great. I would've given this a 10, but for the fact that you're doomed in your Arwing 
 the whole game, I give it a 9.
  
  GRAPHICS ----10 ----. Awesome graphics!!!!!!!! You can see everything very clearly.
  
  SOUND ----5----. 
 The music *sniff* makes me *sniff*cry.... waaaaaaaaa
  (no really the music is that sad) . VALUE ----10 ----. A must-have for Starfox fans. The endings give 
 fans things to think about [in one of the endings, Krystal does it with Fox ; ) and has a baby 
 ] . If you're not a Starfox fan, and just want a space-shooter, this game is still recommended.
 
  
  REVIEWER'S TILT ----9----. The music was bad, but the gameplay and storyline made up for it. The 
 game isn't that bad after all if you read my review. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: brandonB13
Rating: 8.9
Date: Feb 4, 2007 1:49 pm PT
Review:  Ok for starters that phrase was weird, but any way lets get back to the review. Star Fox has made 
 it to a portable and it plays like its always been on a portable. The gameplay is just flying in 
 your Arwing for this title and thats how it should be. The touch controls take some getting use 
 to but once you get the hang of them you'll have a blast. The single player is short on your first 
 play through but with multiple endings and branching paths it will have you coming back for more 
 and more. The strategy gameplay fits right in but the resource management gets annoying. With the 
 ability to play as multiple characters each with there own ship it won't get repetitive. Now onto 
 the multiplayer. You can play download play with one card, or Wi-Fi. The wi-fi battles are fast 
 and intense, but if someone quits the whole game ends. Overall Star Fox Command is a true showcase 
 of the DS' power and should be in most owners library. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pdizzie
Rating: 4
Date: Feb 4, 2007 4:34 am PT
Review:  Damn! I went out yesterday and traded 2 of my DS games and15$ to get this, and I am sadly dissapointed. 
 At first I thought the DS screen controls could be changed to the D-pad, but no. Then I thought 
 there would be alot more weapons to use or moves, seeing as there are 6 face and shoulder buttons, 
 but no, and finally I thought this game would be fun, but no. This is the worst Star Fox game ever 
 made, the beeping noises that the characters make when they talk are freaking annoying! The stylus 
 controls are clumsy, especially if you are playing on the go. Missions are simple but the mechanics 
 make it seem like a grueling chore, the instruction manual says the Great Fox can't move, but when 
 you're traveling from planet to planet the animations show the Great Fox flying right behind you 
 until you get to the planet, then it's helpless and can't do much, this game is a load of lame 
 BS. Today I am going to trade it in for Metroid Prime Hunters. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SearchBomber
Rating: 7.8
Date: Feb 3, 2007 11:08 am PT
Review:  Ah yes, Starfox. The gibberish talking animals. The hundreds of enemies that fall to one pilot. 
 The Barrel Roll. Starfox has definitely had its ups and downs, from the excellence that is Starfox 
 64, to the dissapointment that is Starfox Assault. Nintendo is back again, with the first portable 
 Starfox game. Although they've shaken up the formula (again) , this time it is really intuitive 
 and really fun. The story goes that a while after defeating Andross (it likes to skip over the 
 Assault storyline; the Aparoids are only mentioned once as far as I know) , the Starfox Team breaks 
 up. Peppy becomes General of Corneria, Slippy gets a girlfriend (that's a surprise) , Falco runs 
 off on his own... again, and Fox tells Krystal to take off. Therefore, only ROB and Fox are available 
 to stop the Anglar forces, a new threat from Venom's oceans. Slowly but surely, your teammates 
 and past friends will rejoin you.
  
  The first thing that you'll notice is that buttons in this game do absolutely nothing except fire 
 your primary laser. Everything else is entirely touch-screen-based. Boost by tapping the top-half 
 of the touch screen, brake by tapping the bottom-half of the touch screen, Somersault and U-Turn 
 by tapping their respective buttons. Also, you can lay bombs by dragging them onto the area of 
 the map that you want them to go off at. Oh yeah, and Do a Barrel Roll! by swiping your stylus 
 left and right on the screen. This is the most unique part of the game and more than likely make 
 or break your experience of the game. Expect to be crashing into mountains on the first stage for 
 quite a while until you finally get the system down pat.
  
  This game is essentially a more complex version of the unreleased Starfox 2. You have a few players 
 on the field, and your goal is to grab all of the stars on the map. You usually have about 3-5 
 turns to do so. On this map, you draw out where you want each character to go, then you and your 
 enemies get on the move. Then, you have to battle all the enemies that have picked up on your path. 
 Win, and you get their stars. Lose, and they get to take an extra turn's worth of movement towards 
 your mothership. To make things much more interesting, you have a time limit to finish your current 
 turn. If you fail to reach the target, you'll lose a life. Lose all of your lives, and all of the 
 players become vunerable to being wiped off of the map. The difficulty is somewhat inconsistent, 
 although it could be a lot worse. Fog of War missions can be particularly tricky, since flying 
 past an enemy missle usually means doom. (And by the time you're doing FOW missions, there WILL 
 be enemy missles) . Failure due to wipeout of your team more than likely won't happen, except for 
 a few boss battles. Individual character stats, while somewhat important, usually won't make or 
 break who you send to do what task; with a good handle on the Arwing (or equivalent machine) , you 
 can just play favorites. Some targets can be eliminated in ten seconds, while some can drain your 
 entire team's time.
  
  The game has several endings. They make you play through a set story the first time, then allow 
 you to choose your own path on playthoughs after that. Which ending is the real one? We'll have 
 to wait until the next Starfox game to find out.
  
  This game also has support for Nintendo Wi-Fi Connection. You can choose to play with 2, 3, or 
 4 players for fun, or play 4 for points on your record. However, there are 2 key errors with this 
 game's Wi-Fi mode. The first is that you don't get to play as characters. After getting complaints 
 about how Mario Kart DS and Metroid Prime Hunters had a narrow amount of dominating characters 
 thanks to game exploits, Nintendo decided to dodge this by giving everyone level ground. However, 
 this ultimately makes space fights dull. C'mon, the stats are pretty ineffective in single player, 
 but they would've been fine in multiplayer battles.
  
  However, the real problem is that whenever somebody disconnects, the entire game is cut. This makes 
 it pretty dang hard to finish a match, especially in the ranked mode; there are plenty of brats 
 out there that care more about their records than the game itself. I don't know who's genious idea 
 it was to include this feature, but they should go sit in the corner for that one.
  
  Overall, this game will be fun for quite a while, but like all Starfox games, wears thin after 
 a bit. However, If there's a way for you to try the game before buying it, I do that; like I said 
 before, your perception of the controls will probably make or break your experience. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Omegaman007
Rating: 9.3
Date: Feb 2, 2007 11:46 am PT
Review:  The Star Fox series has seem some great and terrible moments. Most people can agree it hasn't been 
 the same since the version on the Nintendo 64. Few games have captured the excitement of the Star 
 Fox universe the way the original SNES one did, as well as the N64 version.
  
  Star Fox Command revamps the Star Fox universe and puts it in the palms of your hand. With the 
 unique controls of the DS at your fingers, the controls of Star Fox actually seem to improve, making 
 a game that not only has solid game play, but the most innovative use of the DS yet.
  
  The days of Andross are long gone and a new threat threatens the Lylat system. The dangerous Anglars 
 are launching an invasion that treatens to achieve the dream that Andross never could. Team Star 
 Fox has long been disassembled, but the galaxy still needs saving. Star Fox will once again have 
 to use all his abilities if he is to save the day.
  
  Gameplay is simple, and broken down into two separate parts. The turn phase allows you to plot 
 the movement of your squad. This is done on the bottom DS screen. Using the stylus, you simply 
 touch the fighter you want to move and draw out their flight path using the stylus. You initially 
 start with only Star Fox but you will get more pilots as the game goes on.
  
  The second phase of the game involves actual battles. These occur when one of your pilots runs 
 into an enemy squadron, or when you assault an enemy base. For this the action is highlighted on 
 the top screen of the DS, giving you the classic view behind your fighter. On the bottom screen 
 is a radar letting you know your position in relation to all the enemies in the sector. You're 
 givin a boss unit to take out in the battle, but you are free to engage all units, as long as you 
 do not run out of fuel, represented by the timer at the top of the top screen. To pilot your fighter's 
 ship, all you do is move the stylus along the bottom screen. It takes some getting used to, but 
 once you understand it you can navigate your airwing with ease. There are buttons on the bottom 
 screen that you can press to do a loop or a quick turnaround, and you can also drop powerful bombs 
 by dragging them onto the map where you want them to fall.
  
  The controls sound complicated, but once you get used to them they really aren't.
  
  Star Fox 
 Command has all sorts of options. When you play through it the first time you have to follow a 
 set path of events, and cannot make any decisions as to what path you want to take. However, once 
 you beat the game once, you will be allowed to go back and make whatever choices you want. With 
 nine different endings this is sure to keep you busy for awhile.
  
  The fun doesn't stop there. Multiplayer in SFC is very well done. Up to six players can dogfight 
 in insane DS Wireless Download action. You can also play online against 3 other pilots, using the 
 Wi-Fi connection to find opponents.
  
  There's a lot of fun to be had in Star Fox Command. Whether you're going back through it to unlock 
 all the endings or taking the fight to Wi-Fi every night, Star Fox Command is one of the best DS 
 titles out there to date, and has plenty to keep you busy as you enjoy this well done game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: NBAmaster30
Rating: 9.6
Date: Apr 4, 2007 11:49 am PT
Review:  I bought this game almost the day it came out. I played it when i first bought and i was fairly 
 disappointed. so i traded with a friend for Mario Kart. Even though i wanted to play it more i 
 was fine with the best Racing DS game. he eventually got tired of the game and gave it back to 
 me for a crappy game (to me) so i tried it out again and i liked it a little more then i used to. 
 Then it grew on me more and more and i got farther and got to play as other pilots. And i really 
 like it now. I love how you use the touch pad the move the ship and you can use any button to fire 
 so it does not really matter if your right handed or left handed. This game also features a strategy 
 part of the game where you choose where you want to put your guys and where you want them to go. 
 all to prevent ROB's ship to explode . There is a total of 15 pilots you can choose from all having 
 strengths and weaknesses of each person. Multi player is good as well.... very fun i don't really 
 go wi fi only people i know so idk how wi fi is for this game i heard its standard and ok. It takes 
 a while you have to be patient with this game. it takes a little bit to get the hang of everything. 
 Once you know what your doing its more fun and more easy. The graphics are excellent fluid and 
 nicely done. one of the better looking ds games out. I used to think star fox 64 was the best game 
 all time of star fox but my mind has been greatly changed . i was not a big fan of star fox till 
 now i have played all the others i believe everyone but this game beats out all of them. Buy this 
 game if you want to own the best star fox game that gets overlooked by alot of people 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gigabrowser12
Rating: 8.8
Date: Jan 26, 2007 5:19 pm PT
Review:  well I won't reveal any of the story but there are 9 different endings and missions gallore, there 
 are differnt charecters each with differnt ships and many personalitys. The gameplay is in turns, 
 it may feel ocward at first but your moving your ships and when you come close to an enmey it turns 
 to 3d and deppending on the terrain out of 3d it will be differnt. Let me tell you wifi play is 
 an absolute blast that again like one player needs to pick up the pace just like many novels.
 
  
  overall if it didn't have online it woulden't be as close to as good a review. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jeff16950_demon
Rating: 4.7
Date: Jan 25, 2007 7:14 pm PT
Review:  Starfox: while ive always been interested in starfox's, this one.... sucks. Let me give you a brief 
 rundown; you start with 100 seconds in your first dogfight, then you have to earn time, however, 
 while worrying about the time factor, people are shooting at you. There is never alot of enemies 
 that you actually have to shoot down for the first while (i quit after the second stage) and there 
 are time outs. Time outs are when you 'run out of fuel' and die. Then, theres this map. The map 
 is where you draw a line and, well, you fly there. Simple? hell no. You only start out with 5 turns, 
 and there are people shooting at your ship. If one (i repeat, ONE) little thing hits your massive 
 mothership (which can contain starfox's ship and 3 others, starfox's ship seems to be way better 
 in every aspect, like wth) you lose. If you run out of turns, you lose. If you run out of time 
 and/or lives, you lose. What the hell nintendo, why not stick to the roots? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Jimbo9981
Rating: 8.8
Date: Jan 25, 2007 6:35 pm PT
Review:  When a Star Fox title was announced for the DS about a year ago, I was very interested and excited 
 to hear it. Finally, a portable Star Fox game! When I saw the screenshots, I was even more enthused. 
 Then I heard about the gameplay mechanic where the stylus and touchscreen are utilized to draw 
 the path (s) your fighter (s) will take through the level. To be honest, my confidence in the game 
 waned considerably, and I was worried that Star Fox fans were about to be handed another contrived 
 game. Then I saw it for $15 and decided to give it a try. My concerns, as it turns out, were unfounded. 
 Star Fox Command is a true return to form for Fox and Friends (pun!) , and then some! Q-Games took 
 what sounded in the beginning like a contrived mechanic and proved that it was, in fact, inspired. 
 Also, the use of the stylus as a substitue for an analog stick is well-implemented. It takes very 
 little time to get used to the setup, and feels like second nature once you do. The visuals are 
 some of the most impressive on DS yet; in some ways, the visuals actually seem to be cleaner than 
 those found in Star Fox 64! The action never lets up, and to top it all off, Nintendo has ditched 
 the English-speaking voices from Star Fox Adventures and Star Fox: Assault and brought back the 
 warble language from the original title. This is one of the best games available for the DS right 
 now, and I hope that Nintendo gets crackin' on a sequel soon. If you haven't tried it, you are 
 truly missing out on an unforgettable experience! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: agentspin
Rating: 5.8
Date: Jan 16, 2007 9:41 pm PT
Review:  GAMEPLAY: The gameplay is not that great its really easy to play. only move the plane with the 
 touch screen and shoot with the d-pad or xyab buttons. its really no fun. i think they could have 
 made it better controls.
  
  GRAPHICS: the graphics are great nothing wrong with that. SOUND: the sounds in this game is not 
 really good but at least there's sound right? The sound in the game could have been better, i mean 
 the blowing up sound sounds like a SNES boom sound which was great back then but not now. They 
 could have also made better voice acting. the voice recording is really dumb because why do u want 
 to hear your name and gender and stuff like.
  
  VALUE: I would say this is a waste of money because i beat the game the first day i bought it. 
 and i only play for 3-4 hours. The story lines in this game ruined the star fox franchise. What's 
 the real story if they make another star fox game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ExciteTruck
Rating: 2.1
Date: Jan 15, 2007 9:08 pm PT
Review:  this is by far onw of the worst games i ever played. and im a big starfox fan also. it was a shame 
 that the controls were so cruddy and sloppy you could barley do anything at all. turning your ship 
 is crap and shooting is crap. the graphics are meh for the DS. they are okay but not great. the 
 music is very star fox like and reminds me of the classic starfox games for the snes and thr n64. 
 but that beepy noise they make when they talk get on my nerves. the gameplay is crap. the bad guys 
 move arounbd shooting and you cant even see them because of the crappy camera and controlls. it 
 ruines the dam game. And the wifi isnt great eaither. the players are all whiny brats that always 
 restarts and its really not fun faceing against other people. I would rather get stabbed in the 
 neck and be forced to watch child programing then play this peice of junk. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: basludanto
Rating: 8.3
Date: Jan 9, 2007 9:58 am PT
Review:  Star Fox Command marks a return to fun for the series and a return to the look and feel that made 
 the original such a hit. Resembling the SNES installment both graphic and game mechanic wise, SFC 
 benefits from added depth thanks to the strategy sections of the game and an intuitive game control. 
 While the constrained environments at times make the game feel less epic than in may have, these 
 moments are rare and far between. The use of the stylus is perfect, allowing for accurate targeting 
 as well as easy implementation of rolls, flips, and loops. Additionally, the branching story (available 
 once the initial, albeit somewhat short, mission) add high replay value and variety. For those 
 hoping for a return to glory for the Star Fox team as well a the uninitiated, this is a game that 
 should not be passed up or missing from any DS library. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: twinkieguitars
Rating: 3.3
Date: Jan 6, 2007 10:09 am PT
Review:  the controls are awful! doing EVERYTHING with the touch screen is the WORST possible t hing nintendo 
 can do! double tap for brake, double tap for boost??? wtf!!! this isnt no game of chance whether 
 i boost or brake when i double tap! i have perfect accessibility torwards all the buttons, why 
 cant i use them? the game is repetetive and boring, and the controls are the worst!
  
  i was all happy when i bought the game, cuz it was star fox! i loved the N64 one! but then i played 
 star fox command......... i was let down.... id rather use the Dpad than the touch screen... i 
 sold it the day after i bought it. best decision in my life. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Blind_Knight
Rating: 8.9
Date: Jan 3, 2007 8:50 am PT
Review:  After being a little disappointed with Star Fox Assault, I was wondering if they could put back 
 the franchise on the right track. Well, they did ! Star Fox Command is really good. It's closely 
 follows the storyline of the previous games. The gameplay is greatly done, most everything is done 
 with the stylus on the touch screen, except for firing laser, which is done with any other buttons 
 (A, B, X, Y, L, R, even the control pad!) That's really good because if you're right-handed, you hold 
 the stylus with your right hand while firing with the control pad, if you're left-handed, you fire 
 with A B X or Y. The touch screen is composed of the map that shows the enemies and all the other 
 stuff that is on the battle field. The levels are on the same planets as the ones in SF64, but 
 you don't fly trough them; you have some tactics to do before engaging battle with the enemies.
 
  
  The graphics are good, but sometimes the enemies are pieces of metal, you can't really know what 
 it is, but hey, you just shoot it down! That's the point of the game no ?
  
  The sounds are ok, but the voices really get on my nerves ! The music is also on the ok line.
 
  
  In overall, I really liked the game. The story mode is not really long (not even 10 missions) but 
 there are 9 endings to unlock, so you have to play the game again with different paths which makes 
 the game last a lot longer.
  Another point that I really liked, was the possibility to play with every characters, not only 
 Fox. And what I mean with every characters is really EVERYBODY ! Fox, Falco, Slippy, Krystal, even 
 Bill !!! And there are some new faces like Amanda who is actually..... nah, I won't say it !
  Play the game and you'll see ! It's worth it ! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: malachi_27
Rating: 8.3
Date: Jan 13, 2007 6:54 am PT
Review:  Star Fox: Command is a very nicely done game. It goes back to Starfox 64, and the Star Fox games 
 before that. I still think that once Rare left Nintendo, Star Fox and Donkey Kong games aren't 
 that good anymore. But, Nintendo did a great job on this Star Fox game.
  
  The game play gets some getting used to. You have to use the stylus to control the space ships; 
 shoot with the shoulder buttons.
  
  Graphics are surprisingly great for the DS. The ships look fantastic.
  
  Sound is alright. 
 The people don't talk in this game, they only squeak. The sound affects are pretty awsome.
  
  Value is okay. I looked ahead of the question mark spaces where the missions are, and I only 
 counted nine question marks. I REALLY REALLY hope there are a lot mor than just ten or eleven missions.
 
  
  The only problem I have with this game is the difficulty, I'm actually used tp playing fairly easy 
 games. Star Fox 64 wasn't exactly easy to me. If you loved the previous Star Fox game, you might 
 want to go for this one. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Shidohari
Rating: 8.9
Date: Dec 31, 2006 3:52 pm PT
Review:  I have never played a starfox game in my life, but i picked Starfox Command up because it had gotten 
 good reviews on the site. After getting past learning that the lasers can be shot by pushing ANY 
 button on the ds since you're using the stylus to do everything else, this game became very enjoyable. 
 It's also currently owning my soul.
  
  You start out with a preplanned storyline in your first runthrough of the game and you play as 
 Fox McCloud. Your enemies dwell in the seas of Venom and it's your job to wipe them out. Along 
 the way you'll reunite with old friends like slippy and falco. Also you'll face off against old 
 rivals the Starwolf Squadron.
  
  Once you beat any portion of the game you can also go to stage select and pick any stage you've 
 already done in the game and try to beat your score. Perfect ratings are also available if you 
 wipe out all non vital enemies in the situation, meaning those that don't carry any of the cores 
 you need to clear the area.
  
  The most challenging part is flying through all the becons to chase after missles. The timing has 
 to be just right or you lose the missle and it eventually blows up the Great Fox.
  
  I recommend this game for the person who likes simple concept yet challenging. there are many endings 
 to be found based on each of the characters and their past stories. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BIGGDOGG91
Rating: 8.4
Date: Dec 26, 2006 12:19 pm PT
Review:  star fox is back and better then ever after the letdown of star fox assualt i didnt know if starfox 
 ould bounce back but now i know it did. command blends the classic star fox shooter with strategy 
 to create a unique yet addictive ds game however the controls for flying with the ds are very clunky 
 and mess u up alot and the strategy is good but u only get 4 turns to win and that aint to fair. 
 anyway the graphics are great for the ds. the sound is horrible for vo's but good everywhere else. 
 theirs multiplaYER AS WELL but its very shallow overall starfox command is great cause it returns 
 to the old starfox roots even with clunky controls and a deep learning curve . i recommend this 
 to any fan of star fox or someone lookin for fun shooter startegy game. a great pick up for the 
 holidays 
::::::

::::::
UserName: fightabunny2453
Rating: 6.2
Date: Dec 23, 2006 12:35 pm PT
Review:  I did enjoy this game for a while. The combination of Advance Wars-style RTS with 3D fighting really 
 accomplished a lot and put it in a category of its own from other sky-fighting games. Truly it 
 shows off the 3D and 2D capabilities of the DS with spectacular tactics while holding true to the 
 corny writing that makes a Starfox game a Starfox game.
  
  Though, all that aside, it really was a dull game. I played through it twice, chose virtually different 
 missions for each play through, but it was still a repetative game. The writing wasn't in the same 
 style of humorously bad, that the other games have been. The other Starfox Games all had their 
 classic lines, the most prominent being DO A BARREL ROLL, from Starfox 64. This one was just the 
 same crappy writing without the mistargeted-audience edge like the other ones had.
  
  Also, the bland combat of locating and fighting CERTAIN enemies amongst a barrage of other enemies 
 took away from the game seriously. The whole timed thing was rediculous. The concept of the other 
 planes killing you is more than enough rather than having some stupid timer concept that doesn't 
 even represent a real-life way to die.
  
  All aside, it was a decent game. The multiplayer was a bit TOO simple for me. I enjoyed the campaign 
 while it lasted, and I know there are still a lot of more missions that I could play, but I know 
 they'll be virtually identical to all the others before them.
  
  It was a good concept, good controls, but it really just could have been much more than it was. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kiruyama
Rating: 8.9
Date: Dec 19, 2006 7:34 pm PT
Review:  Starfox DS is the most ambitious shooter to bless the DS to date. It provides the classic style 
 of Starfox with controls that are amazingly responsive and easy to utilize, but challenging to 
 master.
  
  The story is standard of a Starfox game, the universe is in trouble and you're hired to take care 
 of business. However, also included are eight alternate endings, which all depend on your choices 
 throughout the game. The inclusion of this choose your path story really helps the overall product 
 in providing some nice replay value. In missions, you start off with a turn based strategy field, 
 where you get to move your ships only as far as their fuel lets them go. You can choose to attract 
 enemy ships by flying near or through their flight paths, or you can head for an enemy base to 
 take out a mothership. This provides aded depth to the game, and really makes it feel like you're 
 in command of your wingmen. Once you make contact with your target, however, the game will start 
 to either turn you off, or engage you even more deeply.
  
  The most controversial aspect of Starfox Command, is its controls. You control your ships boost, 
 brake, and turning all through the stylus. Also displayed on the stylus' screen is a minimap of 
 the current area you are flying in. The game's levels are all set battlefields, not on-rail levels 
 like the original Starfox or Soarfox 64, except for intercepting missiles, but that will be talked 
 about in a bit. So once you've gotten itno battle, you use the stylus to move your ship up, down, 
 left, and right. At first, this cotnrol scheme will leave you frustrated and feeling awkward, but 
 if you take the time to learn the ropes, it is flat out better than analog. You perform barrel 
 rolls by moving your stylus left to right rapidly, although I always find myself drawing a circle, 
 which works just as well. To boost, you double tap the top screen quickly, and to brake, you double 
 tap the bottom screen. Also controlled by the stylus is dropping bombs. On your radar there is 
 a circle icon with the letter B on it. Poiting on it then dragging the bomb to the area of desire 
 on your radar results in dropping a bomb. This feels very nice and fluid as it enhances your sense 
 of command on the battlefield. To shoot your lasers, you press any of the face buttons or shoulder 
 buttons, excluding Start and Select, This will feel strange for right handed people, as they will 
 probably use their right hand for the stylus, and their left for the shooting, but since the left 
 of the DS is home to the D-Pad and L button, it could take a while to decide which your going to 
 use. Personally, I've used the D-Pad, and it works fine. Another aspect of the battle system is 
 fuel. Each battle is timed due to your fuel levels, if you pick up fuel cells or barrel roll against 
 enemy fire, your time is increased. Now back on the subject of motherships and missiles. If you're 
 at a base and have eliminated all enemy units, you have to go through a tunnel of squares towards 
 the mothership then barrel roll before you hit it. This destroys it, and completes the mission. 
 Missiles are much the same. You are entered into an on-rail level and have to go through a series 
 of squares to boost up to the missiles' sped, then shoot it down, all the while continuing to go 
 through the squares. This can be challenging at first, but it gets easy as you learn the controls.
 
  
  The sound in Starfox DS is great. You get some new tunes as well as some returning from Starfox 
 64, which gives a nice feeling of nostalgia to vets of the old game. While the characters do not 
 have full voice over like they did in the N64 version, they do have speech. They garble some impossible 
 to understand gibberish in their own unique voice. People who have played Okami will know what 
 I am reffering to. It is a bit dissapointing you won't be able to hear Slippy give you useless 
 advice 10 minutes after your dead, but it works surprisingly well with the story. All sound effects 
 are great, and fit the movements and actions well. No problems here, though some more memorable 
 tunes would have been nice.
  
  The graphics of Starfoc Command are fantastic, boasting visuals comparable to the N64 version. 
 Some effects do look pixelated, but for a DS game, it looks beautiful. The strategy display is 
 pretty bland though, and could have been a bit more polished. Other than that, all ships in the 
 game are unique and look distinctly different, save for ne or two. The endings are a series of 
 nice artwork pieces with text captions.
  
  The most enticing part of Starfox DS, however, is its Wi-Fi play. You can play against people from 
 around the world with no friend codes necessary via the Battle Royale feature. You also go up in 
 rank the more battles you win. This is truly what handheld wireless should be like. Simply magnificent. 
 However, there are times at which it took a while to find an opponent, but I trust that's because 
 I always play around midnight.
  
  If you're thinking of picking up Starfox Command, don't hesitate. With it's entertaining single-player 
 and addictive Wi-Fi play, it proves to be more than your average shooter. Its a shame the game 
 is no underrated, but this is definitely a gem of the DS. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ZERO201
Rating: 7.8
Date: Dec 11, 2006 1:08 pm PT
Review:  This is one of my favorite games for the ds beacuse there is a lot to the game. it has lots of 
 characters and diffrent levels. the game play is very really good, but the only thing i dont like 
 about the game is that the game is timed. i dont like to have to take out 15 enemys in 150 seconds. 
 every thing in the game is good other than that and some people may like that it is timed. the 
 graphics are ok. overall i think it is a game worth getting. it's fun to play online and it isn't 
 that hard. so if you haven't been playing the game that long and you want to play online don't 
 be scared to try. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pinkdumpling
Rating: 8.9
Date: Dec 6, 2006 8:26 pm PT
Review:  I didn't actually want to get this game in the first place, that's because I don't really like 
 to use the stylus and touch screen on my DS that much. I prefer using the D-Pad and buttons more. 
 So I borrowed this game from a friend, and WOW. Just WOW! I was automatcally addicted to this game. 
 It wasn't that hard to learn, and the controls are AMAZING. I just can't put it down... well I 
 put it down once to put in some eye drops.
  
  If you have a DS, I suggest this game. I haven't tried Wi-Fi yet because im afraid of getting owned... 
 = ( 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hobbez_13
Rating: 7
Date: Dec 5, 2006 5:05 pm PT
Review:  Command is much like 64, but not close enough. If they are making it this close they should have 
 at least added the option to use the diagonal pad, buttons, and R and L to fly instead of just 
 forcing you to use the touch pad. The tanks and walking on foot in multi-player would have been 
 cool also. Hell they should probable just have copied 64 and make a few changes like they did for 
 Mario 64.
  
  While the game play is quite fun, it does get a bit monotonous after a while. It seems like the 
 different story lines is more of what the game was made for. It is intresting to see how each plays 
 out, and how your desicisons determine who you get to fight along side with.
  
  They could have changed the battle sequences up a bit instead of making them all one big circle 
 with pretty much all the same bad guys in them. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 92GreenYJ
Rating: 9.3
Date: Nov 28, 2006 2:37 pm PT
Review:  After the last Star Fox disaster (Dino Planet) I was hoping Nintendo would take the series back 
 to its roots. I loved Star Fox 64 and I was very happy to discover that Star Fox Command returned 
 to Fox's roots of being a solely flight based game. SFC is a great return to the Fox games of old, 
 you take command of Fox and team to battle a new threat emerging from planet Venom and trying to 
 destroy the Lylat system. the graphics look really great on the DS, I'd put them right up there 
 with SF64, In fact some of the graphics look a little better this time around. SFC has you revisiting 
 many familiar systems and environments from the older games with a few new environments thrown 
 in for good measure. Unlike SF64, this time you can fly freely anywhere in the world you wish. 
 Using the stylus for flight control took a little getting used to, but it feels completely naturaland 
 the system actually works very well once you get used to it. The Choose your own adventure style 
 of play that is unclocked after your first time thru the game ensures a pretty high replay value. 
 Over all, SFC is a great title for the DS. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: LiuKang3000
Rating: 6.9
Date: Nov 27, 2006 2:55 pm PT
Review:  Gameplay: This game is waaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaay to simple. You don't even have to put a finger on the 
 d-pad. Multiplayer is the best part of the game. Their aren't many modes and once you beat the 
 game, you can take other courses. But that's kind of boring. Multiplayer is the best (and pretty 
 much the ONLY) mode in the game.
  
  Graphics: The graphics are good. I mean it, the graphics are excellent, especially on a small system 
 like the DS.
  
  Sound: The music is really cool and go's with the battles. It really makes the game more intense.
 
  
  Value: I wouldn't pay 34.99 for this game. Maybe 29.99. This game can't be a rent. If it were, 
 you would be wanting more online.
  
  Reviewer's tilt: ....... Look, this review wasn't long like my others, because the game is so so 
 so so so so so so simple. It doesnt take long to understand the game. (When I grow up, I want to 
 be a game journalist so visit my page and read my other reviews and send me a message and tell 
 me what you think) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sonicth901
Rating: 8.9
Date: Nov 26, 2006 6:24 pm PT
Review:  All in all its a good game. Yes it does get repetative but when you start playing the level you 
 forget about the repation. This is my first starfox game and worth buying if you have DS. The sotry 
 endings sometimes turn out to be bad ones but there are also good ones in my opinion they should 
 just have one long story line. Also when you are trying to find a diffrent story line you might 
 end up with a story that uoy already did. Anyhow even though it is repetative the creators of Starfox 
 change the levels afte rcertain amount of storie completed so there is also variety. Plus this 
 game has wifi which gives it an edge it doesn't get boring until maybe after 45 min of playing 
 wifi. So to sum up what i am saying there are annoying parts which are not so annoying and there 
 are more fun parts then there are annoying parts. This game would make an excellent addition to 
 your DS collection. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Dark_Knight6
Rating: 6.5
Date: Nov 19, 2006 11:25 am PT
Review:  Star Fox: Command for the ds was a fun game that had potential but failed to deliver
  
  For the DS, the graphics were pretty good. The sound quality was good but there werent many tracks 
 to fill the game. In the game, you fly by using the stylus and shoot by pressing any other button. 
 The stylus controll takes time to get used to but will work through the game. The story was probably 
 the worst part of the game. You can run through it in about 4 hours. The missions are pretty much 
 the same thing over and over. You take out the small enimes then a missle or two then go fight 
 the boss. The boss battles arent fun either, you get about two stars and then do a spinning attack 
 through several rings and thats every boss. After you finish, you can go back and unlock different 
 parts of the story but this isnt enough to save the story. The online play is fun too but cannot 
 save this game. You just fly around a shoot each other. This is fun but doesnt last very long and 
 gets boring real quick. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Evil_Metroid
Rating: 7.5
Date: Nov 18, 2006 6:49 am PT
Review:  This is a game were what happens is up to you. Frequently you will have to decide what to do. Do 
 you want to go save so and so, or do you want to let him deal with his life? You will see these 
 questions allot.
  The Game play is really repetitive. You'll find yourself doing the same battle multiple times. 
 You'll also find your self running out of fuel allot. On the positive side, there are 9 different 
 endings.
  Graphically, this game has pretty good graphics. Yet, this games big downer on the graphics was 
 the size of your enemies were really small.
  The sound is really annoying in this game. They could have at least brought the voices from Star 
 Fox 64.
  The multi player is what gives this game cookies. You can play this game for hours with the multi 
 player, but I found myself wanting to play Mario Kart .
  Overall, I liked this game. But The Game play was really repetitive. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Tomayo
Rating: 7.9
Date: Nov 17, 2006 7:22 pm PT
Review:  lets start with what great about this game.
  
  Starfox command puts alot fo other DS games to shame. Not only is the gameplay exceptionally fun 
 using the stylus but in a way creative. Also the strategy point of veiw fuses action with challenging 
 strategic planning.
  Also with many diffrent story endings the game can hold your interest for a long period of time.
 
  Even when story mode is obsolete the Wi-Fi On this game never gets old as you duke it out with 
 3 other pilots for the best ranking.
  
  Bad?
  
  even with all the great things mentioned the game does seem to be lacking one thing....... the 
 feeling the old starfox gave us. Remember the day of the N64? where one can fly around freely shooting 
 down anything that comes in its path. But with the strategy incorporated it kind of takes away 
 that feeling of freedom. (dont get me wrong the strategy planning is also a good part) But hey 
 this IS the NDS and for what starfox is it deserves credit. But on last [ointer of precaution... 
 while palying this game using the stylus be gentle with the touchscreen as it can scratch easily 
 whilt u do barrel Rolls ans such.
  
  Aha Remember to always collect the hoops in each map as they may come in handy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Strike1112
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 10, 2007 2:04 pm PT
Review:  Finally a Star Fox Game without running or flying in a line. this is the first game of the star 
 fox series that is on a hand held. Star Fox Command has to be one of the frustrating games for 
 the ds because of its control and the enmies. There are some good points about the game. It might 
 not be like the other games but the new level design is good there is diffrent stories in the game 
 and diffrent paths. Every move effects the story of the game and he people. Now you can play the 
 other pilots and that means slippy. These pilots are always the week ones in the games but this 
 time they are better then fox. The boss in this game is aingler a crazy power hungry fish that 
 wants to rull the univers and guiss where he lives. You still cant get it. Then you have never 
 played the Star Fox games before. The planit is Venim. this has to be the best game on the DS not 
 even Metroid Hunters can match up to it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: saba_ora
Rating: 7.7
Date: Nov 16, 2006 7:47 am PT
Review:  I've played many a Star Fox game and yet somehow I think Adventures was better than this. The first 
 thing wrong is the tactics, i hate tactics. You are on a time limit to: destroy the enemy and there 
 base, protect the great fox (which has had an extreme makeover) from enemies, and missiles. sounds 
 fun and easy right, WRONG! It can be extremely frustrating at times, and one slip up may make you 
 have to do it all over again. The parts where you actually fly are not that much better, and are 
 controlled by the stylus. Missions are somewhat simplistic, the boss battles will work your nerves, 
 and don't even get me started on the missiles. You must chase and shoot down a missile at high 
 speed while trying to fly through beacons that are in anything but a straight line. This will mean 
 you will need to make sharp turns at some points so let me make something clear; That is damn hard 
 to do with that stupid stylus! there are multiple endings, but you have to play through the whole 
 thing to get there. I've beaten it three times around and its boring the crap out of me. One plus 
 is that there are many characters you get to play as including the star wolf team, and some players 
 who haven't been seen since the original. overall its a let down for me, however you may feel differently. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ErikWaters
Rating: 8.2
Date: Nov 14, 2006 6:25 pm PT
Review:  After the release of a mediocre Star Fox Adventures and an abysmal Star Fox Assault, Nintendos 
 prized series about an elite group of animal fighters engaging in aerial combat seemed down for 
 the count. Sensing the frustration of fans, Nintendo finally delivers with an impressive game to 
 appease even the stingiest Star Fox fan: Star Fox Command.
  
  Complex or interesting stories have never been a staple of the Star Fox series, and Star Fox Command 
 is no different. The general story has Star Fox and his team matching wits with the Anglar army 
 in order to protect the Lylat system, but of course any sort of story development is displayed 
 through simple avatars and text boxes. This in turn will leave gamers pretty apathetic about what 
 is happening with the characters.
  
  Despite the disappointing story, Star Fox Command is a blast to play. One of the best additions 
 to the franchise is the inclusion of some strategy elements to keep gamers on their toes. Instead 
 of the usual flying and gunning through a level, gamers are now required to plan out their flying 
 routes in advance in order to intercept enemy bogies, collect much needed power-ups, or to invade 
 an enemy base. This adds a much needed depth to the game.
  
  As gamers start out, only Fox McCloud is controllable. Using the Nintendo DS two screens, players 
 will be able to draw the flying route of Fox McCloud using the DS stylus on the bottom screen. 
 As Fox comes into contact with enemy fighters, the game heads into battle mode where Foxs Arwing 
 fighter can be fully controlled using the same bottom screen touch screen. But not only is the 
 bottom screen important for navigating and fighting, but the top screen as well. In battle mode 
 the top Nintendo DS screen is used for displaying the actual aerial combat, while in strategy mode 
 it displays valuable statistic information.
  
  When gamers start to make their way through the game, they will run into several old wingmen friends 
 that can also be controlled in combat and strategy, and players will defiantly need them as screens 
 will become flooded with advancing enemies and missiles all threatening to shoot down the Star 
 Fox teams aerial fortress: the Great Fox. If by chance the Great Fox is blown out of the sky, 
 then it is game over and the mission must be started over.
  
  As stated before, Star Fox Command is a great strategy game. Missions are broken up into turns 
 where the Star Fox team must locate and destroy all enemies in order to win the current mission. 
 However running out of time or turns, getting fighters shot down enough times, or allowing the 
 Great Fox to be destroyed are all unfortunate ways to lose and have the mission restart. By carefully 
 strategizing the wingmens routes and collecting power-ups, gamers will quickly realize which way 
 is best for them to win.
  
  While the single-player mode is a great play trough, albeit short, Wi-Fi multiplayer is also available 
 for players who want to take their fight online to challenge any and all competitors to dogfight 
 or two. It may not be the most in-depth mode around, but it certainly adds a few more weeks of 
 gameplay.
  
  The only gripe with the game is the lack of level designs. In Star Fox Command, a basic level, 
 or battle, consists of destroying target enemies and collecting the right amount of star items 
 left behind to pass. Yet in Star Fox 64, a player would fly through an entire level and typically 
 fight a boss in order to pass it. While Star Fox Command still has some bosses in it, the way 
 levels are set up make it quite easy to fly through the entire game.
  
  If gamers are looking for that old nostalgic feeling of a great Star Fox game with no game killing 
 changes to gameplay, then by all means go out and try Star Fox Command. It may be a bit on the 
 short side, but it is enough fun to play through the single-player multiple times and then soak 
 up the rest of the fun with online multiplayer. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ilLD
Rating: 6.7
Date: Nov 11, 2006 1:55 pm PT
Review:  This was my first DS game purchase for myself. I'm big on the Playstation 2 and the 20 dollar titles 
 so paying 30 bucks for a DS game hurt me a little but i figgured, what the hell, it's Wi-Fi playable. The 
 Graphics are pretty good. It also has a nice mix of strategy and combat as it's gameplay. The sound 
 sucks. When characters converse its a weird robo talk. You are supposed to be able to customize the 
 robo talk with your own voice but even with this it sounds horrible. Maybe i'm missing something, I 
 dunno. The Wi-Fi play is smooth and fun, but now i must hit you with the worst part of the game 
 for me (or so i've found) The Stylus! You shoot with any of your other buttons but all of your flight 
 is controlled by dragging ,tapping and scribbling with your stylus. I think this is a royal pain 
 in the keester. Your allowed to go into the options and change the limited steering function (up/down 
 or vice versa) but regardless i think it sucks. Now if they made the game with the option of using 
 either your stylus or the regular gamepad this game would be absolutely perfect and up there with 
 MarioKart DS as one of the best titles for the system. Maybe I'm too old school and i realize the 
 touch pad capabilities of the DS make it unique but i'd rather if they had used it it other ways 
 than your main flight control.
  LD 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Links24
Rating: 9.7
Date: Nov 5, 2006 7:32 am PT
Review:  This is game is when Star Fox makes his astounding return to the great Dogfights we love! The game 
 is short but has a great replay value from the multiple ending you can get. The strategy element 
 is great cause you get to control ever one of your guys and go into battle. One bad thing is the 
 fuel so you have to beat a battle in a time limit and every one has the same timer so if you end 
 a battle as Fox with 1 second left then you will start next battle with someone else with just 
 1 second left and you lose a life. But other then that this game is great. The controls are great 
 and have a great use of the touch screen. And the graphics are very well done on the DS. The music 
 is still the same awesome Star Fox soundtrack. This game is must buy for DS owners and Star Fox 
 fans who love the good ol'days. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: guy_cocker
Rating: 6.5
Date: Nov 5, 2006 2:26 am PT
Review:  StarFox is the latest in a long line of Nintendo titles to receive the DS update treatment. Here 
 though, the console's touchscreen controls feel forced and unsuited to handling a spaceship, and 
 as with Metroid, hand cramp is an unfortunate side effect. Nintendo has also added a strategic 
 element to the beginning of each mission, which only seeks to prolong a short single-player game 
 that's over in hours. At least the multiplayer game allows you to fight with six other DS owners 
 locally (even if they don't own the cartridge) and four players over the internet. StarFox excels 
 in this area, with frantic multiplayer matches that require you to shoot down rivals and collect 
 the stars that they drop. The only problem is that the game reaches the UK months after the US 
 and Japan, so expect to walk into a mass of experienced players online. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: quetzalcoatl45
Rating: 8.9
Date: Oct 30, 2006 4:58 pm PT
Review:  Game play: 8/10
  
  Now This isn't the Star Fox You Remember form the N64 Days, Its a whole new Bag.
  The Two main 
 Veins of Single player are an Overhead Tactical Map Display and what Star Fox 64 fans know as All 
 Range Mode . The Tatical Map allows you to plot the Flight plan for your Ship (s) to Intercept enemy 
 Fighter and Missiles Bent one Destroying the Great Fox That rae launched form Bases in a Turn Based 
 System.
  On map you can collect Extra Time, Ship repairs and Missiles for the Great Fox to shoot down some 
 fighters.
  
  When you encounter a Missile or Fighters at the end of turn you go into All Range Mode and Fight 
 it out in a Timed Open battle, the time Carry's over from one battle to another however you can 
 earn extra time by collecting Time Bonuses and by Reflecting attack by Barrel rolling. In All Range 
 Mode you use the Stylus to Steer your Arwing (or other Craft) and also Deploy Bombs, Perform U-Turns 
 Loop-de-Loops and Barrel rolls, Boost and Break. In default you use ether the D-Pad or the abxy 
 Buttons to Fire your lasers and hold them to do a charged lock-on. you must collect a number of 
 Core from certain enemys wreckage to complete a Battle.
  
  When you attack a base, you must frist destroy the enemy's and collect there cores, then you must 
 fly through windows and at the last minute barrel roll to destroy the Mother ship . atfer destruction, 
 you sre awarded with 2 extra turns and a missile for the great fox. the now freed base can now 
 be used to refuel your ships in map mode.
  
  Missle Encounter involve you chasing the missle through a number of windows as you gain speed, 
 once you cacth up to it you must destroy the missle with your lasers.
  
  With 9 endings and branching paths, you'll keep on coming back to get them all.
  
  The game 
 is also Wi-Fi Enabled and has two modes:
  Battle Royal: a Ranked 4 player free for all dogfight between Random people.
  Free battle: an 
 Unranked Free for all For up to 3 friends or 1,2 and 3 random players.
  
  Graphics: 10/10
  
  Up to par with most DS games. Very Good
  
  Sound: 8/10
  
  The music 
 is perfect for each setting. The Gibberish VO's Get annoying after awhile.
  
  Value: 10/10
  
  I my Opinion, its worth Every cent.
  
  Tilt: 9/10
  
  Over all 8.9/10
 
  
  Buy or Rent: BUY!
  
  While Not perfect, Star fox Command is a Must buy for all DS owners. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Angel-Gamer
Rating: 7.6
Date: Oct 29, 2006 7:58 am PT
Review:  Star Fox Command is the next installment of the popluar Star Fox series that started on the N64. 
 Fans of the series will probably wanna check out this game and with its WiFi connectivity, this 
 game becomes very fun. The main thing about Star Fox Command is that it has about 8 diffrent story 
 endings and many of the storylines interconnect so if you have passion for the Star Fox series 
 you will enjoy this game.
  
  One of the big things that is wrong/missing in Star Fox Command is that all the levels are the 
 boxed in ones, were if you go to far you will flip around and back in. A good idea would have been 
 to add some of the actual levels where you fly through the stage and have to get to the end. The 
 worst part of this game though is that it is very easy. It will probably only take about 2-3 hours 
 before you beat it once. One of the big diffrences about this game is that before you battle each 
 stage is set up like a tactics style battle. You will have to use your stylus to move your ships 
 around the area until an enemy enters your path then you will engage into an actualy battle stage. 
 The multiplayer in this game though is on the edge of good and bad. Theres not to much to do in 
 the multiplayer since its just a couple of different power ups and the stage. It is WiFi though 
 and you get a record card to show your wins, losses and drop outs.
  
  The first thing you will notice about this game is that the ships are controlled by the stylus. 
 To boost, brake, spin, loop, turn and more you must use the stylus. This has probably been one 
 of Nintendo's better ideas when incorporating the stylus into their new handhelds games. You shoot 
 your ship by pressing any of the actual buttons on the DS. You may think that this would seem weird 
 and probably not as good as just no stylus at all, but its the opposite. The game actually works 
 very well with the stylus and it doesnt feel odd using it.
  
  The graphics in this game are ok. the ships will look, at points, pretty blocky . When your doing 
 the tactics style battle everything is just 2D and isnt really that great because everything is 
 pretty much an icon, so they could have improved on that. Also the characters look like they were 
 remodled and it doesnt actually appear to be a good remodle. They're heads are bigger and its just 
 very cartoony which Isn't the best if your an oringinal Star Fox Fan.
  
  The Length of this game isnt to great. This game takes about 2-3 hours to go through one of the 
 endings and there are about 8 endings. You would think that would be alot but it actually gets 
 kinda borring after the first ending is done. The WiFi is pretty fun though and you will most likely 
 play that a couple times but even though theres lots to do in 1 player, you will probably only 
 do about 5 endings at MAXIMUM (and thats even stretching it) .
  
  This game is pretty fun for the first bit but I dont actually think it's worth buying. It is definatly 
 worth trying, so renting it would be a great idea. There's just not enough in it to keep you playing 
 it for more than a couple weeks. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: zeldafan123123
Rating: 6.4
Date: Feb 13, 2007 7:21 pm PT
Review:  This game is ok but it isnt worth buying. The whole game is all range mode I hate all range mode! 
 And the game has tactics in it this is Starfox NOT Advance wars! When you finally get in a battle 
 you only have to kill a few enemies to win its too easy. You cant kill all the enemies even if 
 you want to because theres a time limit. The controls are hard to get used to everything except 
 shooting is done with the touch screen touching any button will shoot. The new bombing system is 
 good the map is on the bottom screen and you select a bomb with the pen and drag the bomb where 
 you want it. The new barrel rolling system is also annoying you start moving the pen up and down 
 then youll start barrel rolling, it lasts until you take the pen off the touch screen or until 
 you run out of energy. The annoying bit about barrel rolling is than when youre trying to kill 
 an enemy and you run out of energy from barrel rolling you cant boost off and escape you have 
 to wait until you regain your energy and just hope you dont get hit but youll get hit anyway 
 (Do a barrel roll!  Each character has a different ship which 
 makes the game even harder they have different weapons armour and some cant even lock on enemies. 
 I wont bother going to the storyline Ive already taken the game back to the shop and I've forgotten 
 most of it not that Ill bother telling you what I can remember. If you want to find out the storyline 
 see a different review. Overall this game isnt worth buying and you shouldnt waste your money 
 on this game unless you rent it first and after playing it all day for a few days and you still 
 like it then buy it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: foxmcleod64
Rating: 7.7
Date: Oct 26, 2006 3:59 pm PT
Review:  Star Fox Command for the Nintendo DS puts our hero, Fox McCloud where he's the most comfortable, 
 in the cockpit of his Arwing II space fighter. This time, he finds himself with only ROB as an 
 ally as the Star Fox team has gone there separate ways as a new threat from Venom emerges from 
 the depths of the planet's acidic sea, the Anglars. Will the Star Fox team reunite to defeat this 
 new foe, or will Fox go it alone?
  
  This game is a close return to the Star Fox's classic roots as an action/shooter. All missions 
 are flown in space fighters, controlled by the player by some nifty use of the stylus pen. Although 
 awkward at first try, only a few minutes of practice will allow a player to get the hang of the 
 controls and start wiping out numerous enemies. Each mission is broken down into two parts, an 
 over world style turn based strategy section where after each turn taken may or may not have Fox 
 and friends fighting enemies in an all-range mode stage. Strategy comes into play in that all enemies 
 must be destroyed before the player runs out of turns, or the Great Fox will be destroyed thus 
 ending the mission in failure. The game gets pretty interesting in the late stages where players 
 have to use sound tactical strategy in planing out the flight paths for up to four different fighters 
 at one point. Each fighter has its own different characteristics such as single, double, or plasma 
 lasers, lock on, no lock on, or multi-lock on, 1 to 3 bombs, boost/brake meter, and shield meter.
 
  
  As a sort of nod to the branching mission paths from Fox's past adventures, dialogue choices are 
 available during the game's storyline that allow players to travel to different planets or areas 
 to fight the Anglars in the Lylat system. Playing the different paths also end in various alternative 
 storyline endings. This is a good reason to play a game over and over again as the main story line 
 is on the short side.
  
  The downside to the gameplay is it may seem repetitive to some and contain frustrating sections 
 for others (destroying enemy cruise missiles comes to mind) The game's graphics are pretty decent 
 comparable to the level of detail that one saw during Star Fox 64. The stage environments vary 
 from planet to planet and sometimes offer some fantastic views such as the snow mountains of Finchina 
 and the deserts of Titania. There is also some good artwork in the game's story mode. The speech 
 of the game's characters also returns to its roots of being that gibberish we first heard during 
 the SNES days. The music is very well done by being both new and familiar. That Star Wolf theme 
 still rocks.
  
  Most likely anyone getting this game will probably be Star Fox fans already and will be pleased 
 to see their favorite characters back in action. The main goal I feel to be for any game on a portable 
 platform should be its ability to keep players engaged during periods of time such as travel in 
 a car. This game will do just that and is a very enjoyable experience for Star Fox fans and those 
 who are new to the series. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Cursed_Shadow
Rating: 8.1
Date: Oct 23, 2006 9:51 pm PT
Review:  Star Fox Command is a unique game in which you and all Star Fox's mates fly around in areas shooting 
 stuff up in your planes. In the game you can control every character (excluding bad guys) . The 
 game is about several planets under attack by a rising evil power, and since the Star Fox team 
 had broken up, it is up to Fox to restart the group and save the day.
  
  Gameplay: The game revolves around you flying around and blasting up the enemies that block your 
 path before the mighty boss fight. The setting and enemies vary depends on what planet you are 
 on, and can vary in difficulty depending on which character you choose. The game is 90% stylus 
 based. You use the stylus to control you fighter (if you have played Metroid Prime Hunters, it 
 is similar to that in a way) and you can use whichever button you want to, to control your weapons.
 
  
  Graphics: Wow, i was impressed. The in-game pictures look really nice, colourful and sharp. The 
 whole scene looks great. The only thing that brought it down was the out-of-game graphics, in which 
 you choose a path you want each character to take. Those graphics are not so good... But apart from 
 that, great!
  
  Sounds: The sound doesn't get more than an average from me. Enough said
  
  Value: This game will last a long while. This game IS WiFi enabled and allows four players 
 to play at the same time in an all out battle. Also online there is a ranking system. This system 
 keeps your rank from A-Z (Z being bad) , it also keeps track of the amount of stars you have captured 
 online. On the singleplay side, there are a suprising nine different endings which can be tricky 
 to unlock, so that will keep you busy.
  
  All in all: if someone asked if knowing what i knew about this game now, would i still buy it? 
 yes. Its a one-of-a-kind game for the ds and everyone should try it out sometime. The online feature 
 is also very nice and well done.
  
  Finally: The good- unique game, online ranking system, graphics, different endings.
  The bad- 
 can be hard to get used to controls,, out-of-game-graphics 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TheGreatGoomba
Rating: 9.1
Date: Oct 20, 2006 5:18 pm PT
Review:  Gameplay- The gameplay is a great mix of map strategy and aerial combat. The gameplay is very similar 
 to the gameplay in SF64, accept it's all all-range mode and you are on your own. The controls contain 
 major fun creatively using the stylus. Bottom line- 8 out of 10.
  
  Graphics- The graphics in this game are so phenomenal for the DS, it purely shocked me. It surpassed 
 other DS games by far! The levels are beautifully designed choc-full of detailed enemies. Bottom 
 line- 10 out of 10.
  
  Sound- The sound is great. It has wonderful catchy tunes- similar to the Pokemon series for game 
 boy advance. The one thing that put me off about the sound is the character's voices. It's a bunch 
 of mumbo jumbo NO ONE COULD UNDERSTAND!! Not even the legendary GreatGoomba! A funny thing you 
 can do is record your own voice and assign it to a character's voice. Bottom line- 8 out of 10.
 
  
  Value- The value of this gamer was short, but after you win once, you can chose your destiny with 
 various given choices. That causes continuous fresh gameplay! Bottom line- 9 out of 10.
  
  Tilt- The tilt is easy to learn and very fun! A rotate of the stylus to trigger a barrel roll, 
 a tap on the touch screen to fire (even though I prefer the L button) And you use the stylus to 
 move, flip, turn around, and drop bombs! the tilt is a wonderful gift to the touch screen!! :) 
 Bottom line- 10 out of 10.
  
  Thanks for reading, NOW GO BUY STAR FOX COMMAND! YOU'LL LOVE IT! ;) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: LasPlagasHope
Rating: 7.5
Date: Oct 16, 2006 5:23 pm PT
Review:  Starfox command is nintendo's online flight shooter based in the the world of nintendo's beloved 
 series starfox. The games controls using the touch screen is very solid and really works well with 
 the flow of the games but the shooting part of the game can be hard to aim at times but for the 
 most it works. My least favorite part of the games are the maps that you have to make a flight 
 path to you next dog fight which to me just seems like a lame filler and after awhile you can just 
 memorize the enemies moves. The graphics in the game have a cool 3d look but it seems like the 
 worlds get used over and over. and the story line seems to go nowhere and you end up caring about 
 memorizing maps then what going on in th story. The online play is nice but also it seems kinda 
 old after awhile because of the lack of options. Over all starfox is atleast a rent buy nothing 
 you cant live without. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: evrynitewithyou
Rating: 9.3
Date: Oct 13, 2006 10:48 pm PT
Review:  I went out and got this game today and I have to say at first the thought of having to control 
 the aircraft with the stylus seemed rather dumb to me. But it actually ends up being very comfortable 
 and you get used to it really quickly. The whole map thing and planing out where you are going 
 is also really cool. If you played the Star Fox 64 for the N64 and liked it you will definatly 
 love this game. The only flaw this game has is the voice-over. because there is none. It would 
 have made the game so much more better if they had voice-overs, but what you can do is record your 
 own voice with the mic that comes with the ds and it kinda plays it in a fast speed. If you get 
 this game you will know what I mean. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Kenny789
Rating: 8.6
Date: Oct 12, 2006 10:45 pm PT
Review:  Star Fox Command isnt as bad as most people thought it would be. The missions are really fun but 
 gets old after you finish most levels. Graphics are really nice and its one of the best graphics 
 Ive seen on the DS. The gameplay is alright and the multiplayer is really nice as well since its 
 fair due to the fact that you can only use the Arwing II. The sound is alright but gets boring 
 after a while especially if you use the same character over and over again. As for the value, I 
 wouldnt rush out and buy this game at $30. Maybe you could find a cheaper Star Fox Command somewhere 
 or get a 2nd hand copy. This game is fun but its too short and repetitive so its best if you rent 
 it first or buy it at a cheap price 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bigcrusha
Rating: 7.9
Date: Oct 9, 2006 7:26 am PT
Review:  Ups: online wi-fi compatibility, new types of flight cruisers for each character, multiple endings, 
 new DS gameplay that makes manuvering easy and fun, great online ranking system, brough back classic 
 characters as well as new ones...
  
  Downs: story mode is somewhat easy, all arwing battles have been swiched permenantly to all range 
 mode, turn based combat system may not appeal to everyone, not many weapon upgrades except the 
 ones from previous games, tricky controls, often need three other players during online multiplayer 
 dogfights
  
  Indesicive: Mellowdramatic storyline, unique gameplay (very unique) ,
  
  Many starfox fans have probably looked forward into getting this game (like me perhaps) but when 
 purchased, the spell wears off and and you will probably realize this was a little disapointing. 
 This game deserves a great score but not an exellent one. This one doesn't improove too much from 
 the previous titles. Nintendo seems to jump aroung alot when looking for companies to develop their 
 games. Now Q-games is in the picture. Lets start with the single player gameplay. You use the stylus 
 and the bottom screen to control the direction of the ship on the top screen. This makes you wonder 
 how in the world nintendo comes up with this stuff. This control system will seem bad and hard 
 to use at first but as you progress using practice, it becomes simple and eventually easier than 
 the control stick or analog. The wierdness kicks in when you see the combat system. It's sorta 
 like a real time strategy or rpg which has never been done before in starfox. You must clear the 
 the map given in a certain period of turns to advance. Fox will only be able to move once per turn 
 as well as the enemy fleets. As you head for the mother ship on the other side, you may come in 
 contact with a fleet and engage battle. If you lose, the fleet will advance. If the fleet reaches 
 the great fox on the oposite side of the map, it's bye-bye great fox and hello to the game over 
 screen. The disapointing part of this is that in most stages, it's one or two of you and maybe 
 7 of them. This may not be liked by starfox fans for they've striped starfox of it's value which 
 made this series great. On top of that, all battles (excluding missle chases) have been swiched 
 permanantely to all range mode which maybe a good thing to some but let's not forget starfox 64 
 that had the one directional auto arcade like combat system that was very fun most of the time.
 
  
  This might be intersting to some but the storyline is very mellowdramatic and like a space soap 
 opra you're mom probably watches. Theirs always a twist or turn of some sort. Some may make you 
 laugh and some may make you cry. The advantage to this is that now you will have a general idea 
 of the origin of some characters and their life and feelings when not saving the lylat system from 
 evil. Yes, now they finally took starfox to online level where you can engage a dogfight against 
 three other players across the globe. The objective is to collect as many stars as possible on 
 stage which are obtained by obliterating and opponet (depleting his health bar) . The pilot with 
 the most stars at the time limit wins. The stars you collect during a match will go into your star 
 bank which will move up your rank the bigger the collection. You have 26 ranks in total to move 
 up (rank Z the lowest and A being the higest) . Again, this too may not be liked because you can 
 collect stars faster by rolling which will suck it in to your ship. This means a pilot can come 
 in and steal your well earned star that you just destroyed an opponet to get. On top of that, if 
 one pilot decides to quit in mid-battle, everybody gets booted out instead of one leaving and others 
 stay to continue battleling.
  
  Overall, this game is good but not great because Q-games had to blow it and go taking out everything 
 we loved about the other starfox titles in the attempt to make a different unique and better starfox 
 game. I still recommend this game because it was fun after all and this is another one to add to 
 the collectiion but fans, don't expect to be too satisefied or excited when you buy it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dreamdust
Rating: 8.9
Date: Oct 7, 2006 12:13 pm PT
Review:  Star Fox Command
  1-4 players with Wifi and Wireless Download Play
  Developed/Published by: Q-Games/Nintendo
  
  Pros:
  +Flying only.
  +Control is smooth and 
 the touch screen is used very well for this game. I would compare it to Metroid Prime Hunters but 
 not as difficult to handle. Being able to use the map on the bottom screen to drop bombs on unsuspecting 
 enemies is a blast!
  +You use a strategy map like say Fire Emblem to plot the path of your plane. The goal is to keep 
 the enemy away from the mother ship. +Get to use all kinds of pilots in the main 1-player mode 
 and each has their own unique weapons and abilities. My personal Favorite would be Wolf.
  +There is a branching storyline that can lead to 9 different endings. Keeps you playing until you've 
 got them all.
  +The game is in full 3-D except for the dialogue scenes between missions which use Fire Emblem 
 type character portraits. The game in both scenerios looks fantastic.
  +Wifi play.
  +Single-card multiplayer download play for some versus matches with friends who do not have their 
 own copy.
  +Difficulty is moderate, if slightly unbalanced.
  
  Cons:
  -The missiles that you run into for the first time may confuse some players because it is not clearly 
 demonstated how to kill them at first. You have to shoot/lock-on while hitting the beacons and 
 blast it out of the sky. I know the first time I thought you were supposed to run it down and then 
 you would go into a battle of some-sort, but I eventually figured it out. It's actually not that 
 hard. Some characters are better at it than others. I found Panther to be the best for taking down 
 missiles for me.
  -Certain endings can be really easy while other ones can be much more difficult. The branching 
 paths don't really give you any heads up as to what is the more difficult path, not necessarily 
 a bad thing as much as an observation.
  -Flying through rings is fun but at the same-time kind of weird! Who put those things there, reminds 
 of the blocks floating in the air in Mario lol.
  -Getting your airwing to roll can be a little funny sometimes if you're rushing, my only real grip 
 on the control.
  -Pictures for the endings are nice to look at but a little bit of animation would have created 
 more of an impact. Grant it there are 9 endings so that's probably why they went with the still 
 shots.
  -If a single enemy makes it to your ship it is game over. I sometimes think that if you have a 
 missile loaded in your Mother ship then why can't it go ahead and take out that enemy? I guess 
 that would make it too easy. I rarely had this problem though.
  -In Wifi play and download play everyone is simply a carbon-copy of Fox and his airwing. It would 
 have been nice to play online as Wolf, Panther, Leon, Slippy, Falco, Krystal, and the rest with 
 all their different abilities. Final Thoughts: This is a very good game for anyone looking for 
 some aerial combat or for a good Star Fox game. I would recommend this game highly over Star Fox 
 Assault on the Gamecube. I enjoyed the single-player experience and all the branching plot lines 
 which made for good replay value. Unfortunately if you're looking at this game for some good multiplayer 
 you may be a little dissappointed in that you can not use all the different characters from the 
 game, rather everyone is merely a copy of Fox and his airwing. Also, for some reason I have had 
 a hard time getting matched up with four players and in this particular Wifi game it will not let 
 you play the main Wifi mode with anything less than 4. I don't really understand why they made 
 it that way but it makes getting a match going a little bit difficult. You can do free battle but 
 it does not factor into your rank. Bottom line buy this game for the single player experience and 
 consider the multiplayer something extra. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: boomgnade
Rating: 8.2
Date: Oct 5, 2006 12:41 pm PT
Review:  So I've been playing Star Fox command for the past couple days and was actually pleasantly surprised. 
 My favorite thing about the game has to be the difficulty (not in the flying and shooting, but 
 in the strategy) and the multiple path type of gameplay. Let me elaborate. Each starfox mission 
 usually encompasses either taking out a mothership, destroying a particular type of enemy, or shooting 
 down a cruise missile. The controls are excellent for flying around and shooting down badguys, 
 and I have only died a couple times in the heat of battle or failed the mission by running out 
 of time. On the other hand, I have allowed enemy ships, and cruise missiles to destroy my flagship 
 on many occasions. There's actually a lot of strategy involved in placing your ships and intercepting 
 threats. At the same time you have to stay aggressive and go after the motherships to earn more 
 turns (and thus leaving your flagship undefended) . I actually found one of the first missions the 
 hardest because while I was destroying every enemy I faced, the training mode does not describe 
 any of the elements of the strategic map, so I lost a lot. You also start with only Fox McCloud 
 and then meet up with your buddies. Luckily, flying around and moving my plane around was so much 
 fun I just kept replaying it and eventually learned how it works. Basicaly, there's fog of war 
 clouds that you can rub away with your stylus (only so many though) and then you draw paths for 
 your plans to fly. Once you get into it the strategy elements are really cool, work well, and keep 
 the difficulty of the game up. The graphics and actual missions are spot on StarFox 64 and give 
 you little 3d arenas to fly around and shoot it out. In-game controls are excellent and each spaceship 
 is actually a little different with weapons, lock-on abilities, etc. (I hate Slippy's ship! No 
 Lock ON!) . After the first mission you can choose which teammember to go after and the game splits 
 into 3 paths and after every subsequent misison you have at least 2 different areas/missions to 
 choose from. This gives the game excellent replay value! There is also online support and local 
 multiplayer modes which are exactly like the old N64 free for alls. I've never been a very big 
 StarFox fan, though I did really like the 1st one, but the depth the strategy elements have given 
 the game make it totally my cup of tea.
  
  Gameplay: 8/10
  Pros: Controls are excellent and fluid, drawing paths and planning out attack patterns is a unique 
 new feature, the old N64 dogfights return, different ships handle differently, EXCELLENT boss battles. 
 Great Multiplayer dogfights.
  
  Cons: The actual missions can get repetitive: destroy this enemy, chase missile, destroy mothership. 
 Training missions don't adequately prepare you for new strategic elements. No true SNES on-rails 
 missions.
  
  Graphics: 8/10
  Pros: Arwing ships all look different (there's even a tadpole type ship to play as) , solid 3D engine 
 that looks better than the original SNES starfox and almost as good as the N64 version.
  
  Cons: Levels are small, and draw-distance could be farther. Some of the old N64 fog is used and 
 actual terrain and levels aren't that varied.
  
  Sound: 8/10
  Pros: Sticks to the starfox theme music previously established. They also use this fun garbled 
 voice when people talk (like the old SNES cart) .
  Cons: No spoken voice, which people may frown on.
  
  Lasting Appeal: 9/10
  Pros: Multiple 
 paths in one player, many ways to enjoy multiplayer, decent difficulty without being frustrating, 
 and a decent and engaging story.
  
  Cons: Gameplay may not keep you coming back for the 3rd, or 4th time through the campaign mode. 
 Missions can be repetitive.
  
  Average: 82.5%
  Tilt (+/-) : +0.5%
  
  Verdict: 83% 
::::::

::::::
UserName: honeysyrup
Rating: 7.7
Date: Oct 4, 2006 12:39 pm PT
Review:  When I first heard about how you had to use touch screen controls to play this game I was very 
 disappointed and I was even thinking of skipping this game forgetting about my love of the Star 
 Fox series. However, I decided that I should not skip this game and I think I should give it a 
 chance and I did. Here's my review of Star Fox Command.
  
  Gameplay: Like all Star Fox games, Star Fox Command has solid gameplay. You control the arwing 
 of 15 different playable characters and you complete missions using them. A new twist was added 
 to Star Fox Command and that was the touch screen controls and the Strategy RPG style gameplay. 
 Before you actually fight enemies you have to use the touch screen to move in who you want to actually 
 fight the enemy. And unlike previous Star Fox games, you can play every character in this game. 
 The touch screen controls are also very smooth and clean. I had no problem whatsoever controlling 
 the arwing and I also had a more exciting time doing it with the touch screen instead of normal 
 controls. Overall, Star Fox Command has awesome gameplay. I give it an 8/10 for great!
  
  Graphics: Star Fox Command has some of the best graphics on the Nintendo DS, I don't think the 
 best, but definitely one of the best. The enivironments are very well done and also the ships and 
 enemies are also well done. I give the graphics an 8/10 for great!
  
  Sound: Ok Star Fox Command has pretty good sound and I enjoyed some of the music given and the 
 way the sound was played, but overall, I have to say I've heard better. Don't get me wrong I think 
 Star Fox Command has good sound, but I just think that it could've done so much more with it and 
 make better sound. Overall, I give it a 6/10 for good, but could've been better.
  
  Value: Now Star Fox Command has good value. There are 10 different endings you can unlock and the 
 fun gameplay adds on to it and the Wi-Fi! However, the ten endings don't take too long to unlock 
 and the Wi-Fi is repetitive at times. But hey, I think the value is pretty good, so I give it a 
 7/10 for good!
  
  Story/Characters: This is a new thing I added in my reviews. Star Fox Command has a pretty good 
 story but great characters! I mean the whole thing with the Anglars wanting to take over the universe 
 and the story about James and Andross's past was quite well done but the characters add on tot 
 he greatness. The lines are also really cool and funny, overall I give story/characters and 8/10 
 for great!
  
  My personal tilt: I personally really liked Star Fox Command. I have to say the gameplay and the 
 graphics were great, the sound was alright and the value was good. The Wi-Fi adds on to the fun 
 and this is just a game I enjoyed very much. I reccommend this to anyone who enjoys the DS's touch 
 screen controls and are fans of Star Fox. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: redX5112
Rating: 8.7
Date: Nov 27, 2006 7:33 pm PT
Review:  Starfox Command is a game where you pilot various ships from the Starfox Universe. The game has 
 more endings then you can imagine, none of which are to terribly interesting but the story is not 
 the real draw here for this game, it is the flying around and blasting other ships away.
  
  The controls are very intuitive, you control the ship by just moving your stylus to point the ship 
 where you want to go, much like Metroid prime hunters. You also have your quick turn around button 
 and loop buttons, the way you activate your shields is quickly moving your stylus left and right 
 across the screen.
  
  The way that single player is set up is you do missions with all your fighters you currently have 
 there about 15 or so pilots in the game but your first time through you will only get to meet about 
 7 of them. The missions are set up so that you have a time limit any time you are a battle but 
 when you are planing your attack which is done with a turn based strategy type game where you draw 
 the paths your pilots will take with your stylus picking up power ups and missiles, more time and 
 such. there are many enemies in the world's you will be in such as giant sting rays in the ocean 
 planets, and so forth all with different kinds of ways to attack you, when you are in a battle 
 you only have to destroy your targets not the other enemies, but you can if you are in need of 
 more time or shields. After beating the game once you are awarded the key of destiny that will 
 allow you to play through again while unlocking new story paths, kinda like a pick your own adventure 
 book. Picking new options will take you to new missions and meet new pilots. Once you unlock a mission 
 in story mode you can play single mission from the main menu to try to get a higher score on them.
 
  
  The game also has a some multiplayer. It has single card download play, as well as Wi-Fi connection 
 so you can play people across the world who also have starfox command. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Killermonkey97
Rating: 7.9
Date: Oct 3, 2006 6:27 pm PT
Review:  Star Fox Command for the DS reunites the Star Fox gang (and then some) to stop yet another conquering 
 of the universe. This time, they are fish-like creatures known as the Anglar Empire, and the Great 
 Fox team will stop them any way they can. However, that's not the only problem. It appears that 
 Fox has some girlfriend issues with that other fox chick named Krystal. Since Fox for some reason 
 kicked her off the team (it was for her own good?) , Krystal decided to join Star Wolf, as she is 
 more accepted there. That, and Slippy is about to get married with his fiance. Oh no! Can Fox solve 
 these solutions!? So many questions to be answered, what else is there to do? Time to move on to 
 the  Gameplay: Finally, a Star Fox game that has nothing to do 
 with Fox being on foot. Sure, Star Fox Adventures was pretty good, and Assault was okay, it was 
 nothing like full Arwing action of the yester-games of this series. All what needs to be said is 
 this: it's about time. However, I might be over-reacting just a little bit; it's not all about 
 the flying. The whole concept of the game is dogfights with turn-based strategy. First, the strategic 
 part. All in all, it works. The rules work out like this: using the touch screen, you trace the 
 pilot's (that you control) path to fight off enemies by crossing their path. Having a time limit 
 of a certain amount of turns, you have to destroy all bases (you can add more turns if destroyed) , 
 protect the Great Fox from enemies and missles, destroy both missles and enemies, and defeat the 
 boss of that level (if any) . It mixes with the dogfighting part of the game pretty well. Now with 
 the dogfighting part of the game. It's, of course, a strong part of the game, maybe even the strongest. 
 Pratically all the buttons excluding the Start and Select button is used for shooting; everything 
 else is all touch screen-based. to steer, you use touch screen; to do a barrel roll, you use the 
 stylus in a spinning motion on the touch screen; to accelerate, tap and hold the top part of the 
 touch screen, same for brakes if you tap and hold the bottom part of the screen; for U-turns and 
 loops, you touch icons on the side of the touch screen; and finally, for bombs, drag the icon where 
 these bombs supply, and then choose where you want to put it on the map you have on the bottom 
 screen (used to see where everything is.) . It may sound complicated, and, at first, it is; however, 
 it can be easily get used to, and can show that Star Fox can still be unique and fun at the same 
 time. But anyways, the objective is to destroy a certain number of certain types of enemies in 
 a certain amount of time. To fail, you either run out of time, or you have been defeated, both 
 ending up pretty risky in the sense of Mission Failure (or close to it) . So, generally, the dogfights 
 are pretty fun. What can there be, you ask? Well, all fun aside, some missions seem to be easy, 
 and some just feel a tad bit repetitive, since there isn't much else for it. Not much else. It's 
 a fun flight game that, for some Fox fans, really put the series back on track. Thumbs up for  
 Graphics: Overall, pretty good. Some parts look better (or just as good) as Starfox 64, yet still 
 has environments that look better than Starfox for Super Nintendo, which isn't anything too bad 
 to say. Few tweaks and improvements here and there, it could look better. But, for the most part, 
 looks  
 Sound: No more chattering like in previous Gamecube and 64 games; instead, the best chattering 
 there is dates back to the SNES days when the team mumbles in gibberish. It's not that bad. Music 
 is okay, too, just nothing really exciting (or as exciting) as the other games. sound effects, 
 however, are still in tact, so that's an up. But still, overall, sound is  
 Value: Just because you ran through the game once, doesn't mean you're done yet. There are a total 
 of nine endings in the game, stretching out to at max seven or maybe even eight missions for each. 
 But that's not exactly what would make this game that replayable: it's the multiplayer aspect of 
 the game. Not only can you dogfight with up to six friends via with one game, but you can also 
 play online thanks to its WiFi functionality. All in all, even though the multiplayer is pretty 
 simple, there is some fun to be had, especially when you don't have anything better to  
 Tilt: Overall, a definate check-out. It has fun aspects that may not be as fun to other people, 
 but I imagine to most. If you find it fun so far, then it might be worth a buy for you. I know 
 that Star Fox fans and people who are into flight games (or at least the majority) will enjoy this 
 and not be disappointed by it. Even though there are a few flaws, I've found it overall enjoyable. 
 Hope you like it, as well. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Oilers99
Rating: 6
Date: Sep 30, 2006 8:58 pm PT
Review:  Star Fox Command is a doomed marriage. Some hybrids bind naturally, each design principle complementing 
 the other. Star Fox Command is not such a game. It is two games that individually have promise, 
 but when brought into union, undermine the qualities of each other. As a strategy game, Star Fox 
 Command is superficial and uneven. As a space shooter, Star Fox Command is in desperate need of 
 greater depth. The result is clashing needs, and a misguided uniting of individually redeeming 
 qualities which cannot quite salvage the results of them coming together.
  
  Strategy is certainly the lesser of the two designs, and it is poorly implemented, but there are 
 some worthy elements. Most of the revolve around moving Fox and his companions about a map, intercepting 
 any enemy ships or missiles threatening to destroy your home, Great Fox. Deepening the strategy 
 is management of time, ship missiles and turns. There are limitations on how far you can move your 
 character in a turn, with a maximum of five turns, though you can gain an extra two turns by destroying 
 bases. Ship missiles let you subdue enemy fighter groups without a fight, though you only receive 
 so many missiles, and you have to pick them up in the missions. Since traditional Star Fox gameplay 
 has time-limits, you are also allowed to pick up time boosts on the map. Combine this with health 
 bars for the characters that carry over from one battle to another, and you've got the basics for 
 an entertaining strategy game.
  
  All too basic basics. What positives that are there are wasted because it never demands thinking. 
 The maps are single screen, and the best method for beating a level can be found without using 
 your brain. Not that mistakes will result in punishment; it takes unadulterated stupidity to perform 
 to the point of losing. You'll almost never have to restart a level, or play it for long. Not that 
 the space shooting gameplay is deep enough to sustain longer or more punishing levels. The unholy 
 levels of repetition that the gameplay would reach if levels were even more drawn out, especially 
 with a story that encourages you to replay through multiple times, would be soul-breaking.
  
  Not that the story will particularly encourage you to replay the game. There is a core of melodrama 
 and intrigue to the plot, but it falters with a fatal mistake; plainer-than-vanilla writing shoved 
 down your throat in excessive quantity. With the slight exception of ROB, every single character 
 in the game talks the same way. Personalities contrast, but those personalities all use incredibly 
 similar syntax and voice. Without voice acting to lend them depth, it's impossible to develop any 
 attachment to characters, decimating a story balanced entirely upon interpersonal interaction. 
 Sharp writing could have done wonders, but as it stands, reading the story is as repetitious as 
 playing it.
  
  Not that this repetition is a result of bad gameplay, but rather, the demands of the poorly implemented 
 strategy. Since the strategy elements require that you face a multitude of small groups of foes, 
 there's no level design to be found. Every fight is an arena style free-for-all. Though the enemies 
 are reasonably varied, and the time limit does lend a sense of urgency, every fight begins to feel 
 similar after a while. The game maddeningly repeats its tendencies without changing, as the same 
 tactics are equally effective on every foe. Nor is there any thrill in becoming efficient; there's 
 not much challenge, so you'll feel complacent towards improvement. Wearily you will chase down 
 enemies, wearily you will shoot them, and wearily you will note that they all blur together in 
 memory. Without the flexibility of specifically designed levels, Star Fox Command's gameplay is 
 lost.
  
  Which is unfortunate, because had this been a traditional Star Fox game, the core gameplay would 
 have worked well. Fox and friends have a respectable variety of moves, including standard lasers, 
 homing attacks, spin moves, looping and U-turn abilities, turbo, brakes and bombs. Most functions 
 are integrated into the touch screen, though the buttons or D-pad is used (depending on your handedness) 
 to fire. It works quite well. There is an adjustment period, but after a while, the game offers 
 a level of precision and control that other Star Fox games were incapable of. Each member of Fox's 
 team also has varying abilities; some can lock on to multiple targets, others have more powerful 
 lasers or larger health bars. Everything you are given within the cockpit works really well, but 
 everything outside of it, thanks to the concessions for the strategic elements, is pitiful.
  
  Star Fox Command is an even partnership between two designs, but a damaging partnership that 
 hurts both parts of gameplay. Had Star Fox Command been a strong strategy game with poorly implemented 
 shooting levels, or a strong shooter with slapdash strategy elements, it would have assuredly been 
 more compelling. There is nothing to latch onto about Star Fox Command, nothing to love, nothing 
 so bad as to loathe. Combined with a story that fails to be anything, Star Fox Command fails to 
 be anything but a bland mix of less than complementary gameplay styles. As natural as this union 
 may have seemed at the wedding, the marriage has proved the need for separation, because neither 
 can be all that they can be together. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gibmaster
Rating: 8.9
Date: Sep 30, 2006 7:39 am PT
Review:  I grew up with an N64, which is a lot less than most of you can say. Starfox 64 was one of those 
 games that has stuck profoundly in my mind. Two sequels later, I was starting to lose faith in 
 good old Fox- until this game came along. Now Fox is back right where he should be: in his cockpit.
 
  The single player campaign opens with a short description of the story thus far, and apparently 
 an unfriendly race called the Anglar is stirring up trouble in the Lylat system. So, in comes Fox 
 to save the day! One problem-his team has disbanded!
  Youll start off the campaign with some training on how to maneuver your ship. The gameplay here 
 is easy to learn and incredibly intuitive: move the stylus in the direction you want to fly, tap 
 twice on the top to speed up, twice on the bottom to brake, and move the stylus side to side to 
 spin. There are various icons to loop, U-turn, and drop bombs on the bottom screen. To shoot, all 
 you need to do is press any button.
  Once you have the basics down, you can dive in to the story. The story isnt outstanding, but 
 it is more than serviceable here. If you really dont like it, you can skip the dialogue anyway 
 (this is useful on multiple runs through the story to get the various endings) .
  When you get into the mission, you see an overhead map of the Great Fox, Fox and his comrades, 
 the enemies, and the surrounding area. Using the stylus, you draw a flight path for each fighter. 
 Your objective is to destroy all of the enemies and motherships on the screen. This is harder than 
 it sounds, though, because youll constantly have to intersect fighters and missiles trying to 
 destroy the Great Fox.
  Once you intersect a fighter or missile or run into a base, combat begins! All combat is, in essence, 
 like the all-range battles in Starfox 64. However, you have to destroy certain enemies and collect 
 their cores before time runs out. Missile chasing is perhaps the hardest part- you must fly through 
 the rings behind a missile while attempting to shoot it down. Missing a ring results in the missile 
 getting away.
  The graphics are astounding, and you can tell they are really pushing the DS to its hardest. They 
 have a nice, crisp look and the environments look great too. The music is pretty good, on the most 
 part. Regular battles remind me of the old Starfox, the missile chase music is tense and exciting, 
 and while playing as Wolf (yes, you can!) the music is a nostalgic reminder of the old Starwolf 
 battles.
  The story is short (it took me three hours on my first time through) but there are a total of nine 
 endings, so theres plenty of replay value here. The online battles are also enjoyable, but expect 
 a lot of looping and spinning.
  In the end, Star Fox Command is the game that brings Fox back to the cockpit with some added flair, 
 and is sure to occupy plenty of time on anybodys DS. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Linkhare
Rating: 8.8
Date: Sep 29, 2006 9:06 pm PT
Review:  No more walking!
  Just dogfighting!
  
  The best part of the game... is the new gameplay, brings the Touch Screen to a more realistic way, 
 although is a bit awkawrdly at first...
  
  The new way to see enemies, in the map zone, makes it a bit strategic, something really new in 
 Star Fox games, but it's good for gamers who likes all kinds of games, not just shooters.
  
  The replay value, is awesome, even if you don't have WiFi, you got 9 different endings to see.
 
  
  Makes you use everything the DS has, Touch Screen, Mic (it has nothing to do with gameplay but 
 you use it xD) the Double Screen, etc.
  
  The bad part... is the music, i didn't like the music very much, but, i almost never play my portatibles 
 with sound, so it wasn't such a pain.
  
  Another bad thing was the shortness of battles.... if it was few enemies, it was really fast to 
 win, and if there were many, they were easily shot down, so it wasn't very hard.
  
  Still, is a great game for Star Fox fans and dogfighters fans, it's a must have for the DS 
::::::

::::::
UserName: aashkii
Rating: 6.8
Date: Dec 1, 2006 11:30 am PT
Review:  Star Fox for the SNES was a revolution when it landed on the console; Star Fox 64 for the Nintendo 
 64 is arguably the best in the series; Star Fox Adventures took a different approach to the series 
 in Zelda form, but many were turned off by that direction; And Star Fox Assault brought back to 
 its roots but many were dissapointed by the less flying sequences the series was well-known for. 
 Now Star Fox Command does have Arwing-to-Arwing combat, but it feels like that's all you're doing 
 throughout the whole game. The gameplay is mostly controlled by the touch screen: The D-pad, action 
 buttons, and the L and R buttons are to shoot lasers (and holding the button will allow you to 
 lock on to your foes) ; writing the screen in circles will allow you to roll; tapping the top part 
 of the touch screen will speed the Arwing; tap the bottom to brake; and finally the u-turn (tap) , 
 somersault (tap) , and bombs (drag onto map when indicated) are displayed on the screen for quick 
 evasion and destruction onto your opponents. The single-player mode feels like the board game Risk 
 , where you drag the icons to get missles, enemies, and using other techniques on the map such 
 as rubbing fog to find items and hidden enemies. As you play thru the single-player mode, you realize 
 that that's all you do throughout the game, and it becomes tedious after playing from 30 to 60 
 minutes. The multiplayer was a big dissapointment, especially Wi-Fi. There are two modes in the 
 online realm of the game: Battle Royal and Free Battle modes. The Battle Royal allows you to compete 
 against three other players to dogfight in a time limit match. I didn't spend much time with the 
 Free Battle mode, but it allows you to find opponents that match your skill level. It's hard to 
 see your opponent on the small screen as well as not seeing anything else with the player's names 
 crowding in the way. Star Fox Command was a letdown in its truest sense so there isn't any replay 
 value except if you enjoy the game the whole way (which I'm fine by since you've been a fan in 
 the series for all this time) . If you want intense gameplay, get it. If you are worried about Command, 
 you can try it out on download play if your friend has a copy of the game and wants to play it 
 against somebody who never got a chance to play. Overall, I wish Nintendo could have done Command 
 better in gameplay and hopefully one day create a Star Fox game that would surpass Star Fox 64 
 (since it's the best in the series, as mentioned earlier) . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Nickexile
Rating: 8.2
Date: Sep 23, 2006 3:02 pm PT
Review:  Star Fox Command, great, or not so great. I would say average. It is pretty fun when you star playing 
 it but it is extremely short. The game looks great but the contents of it are poor. It looks like 
 there wasnt a lot of effort put into it. The characters dont speak normally just a very annoying 
 sound that is like someone scraping a black board with their nails in your head. The story is short, 
 that is all there is. You can play it over and over again and you unlock new things but I dont 
 see why you would want to because of those horrible sounds the characters make. It isnt that bad, 
 I beat it three times but now Im done with the story.
  The best part of the game is the multiplayer and wi-fi. That is the fun part of it, just like Metroid 
 Prime Hunters, and Metroid Prime Hunters was definitely worth getting. You get to fly around constantly 
 getting on other players nerves, or vice-versa. This is the shortest review I have written but 
 there is not much more I can say. If you are a Star Fox fan then get this game, if not, I dont 
 know. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: OblivionGateIV
Rating: 8.7
Date: Sep 23, 2006 7:30 am PT
Review:  You wouldn't think that arwing flight could be achieved anywhere except for on a console? I wouldn't 
 blame you. Star Fox 64 and Assault were great for their time, and the Arwing control was seamless. 
 Now, Star Fox makes it to the Nintendo DS, and, though the new controls are odd, they are easy 
 to get used to. Using the stylus, you navigate your fighter up and down and side to side around 
 a large area of play, using the buttons to shoot down your countless enemies.
  
  The game has undergone what I like to call the Dynasty Warriors 5: Empires transformation. Instead 
 of just fighting, you now have to choose where you go to attack.
  
  One thing that often does get annoying s that you not only have to kill the enemy, you have to 
 prevent the Great Fox, your mothership, from being destroyed, which gets annoying as you follow 
 countless missles through their trails.
  
  There is a time limit system, but you can get many powerups so that it is less of a problem. The 
 game is realtively easy, and after you beat it once you are able to carve your own path through 
 space, choosing alternate quest lines.
  
  The graphics are not much to look at, but they aren't unbearable either. The score from the original 
 Star Fox is here, and that score was one of the best of its time.
  
  The online play is seamless. Choose a battle royale to build your Wi-Fi ranking, or just choose 
 a free battle. The Wi-Fi is glitchless, and is filled with many items and upgrades to keep the 
 fun going.
  
  The only thing that may irritate classic SF fans is that you have to not only kill the enemies, 
 but collect the stars-shaped cores as well.
  
  Overall, SF Command is a solid, excellent space shooter for the portable generation. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Splitterguy
Rating: 6.8
Date: Sep 22, 2006 10:10 pm PT
Review:  Despite what other review say, I think the strategy portion of the game works. The reason it was 
 made this way was most likely to better suit the DS's unique functions. They play out like this: 
 your ship starts in a battle field with at least 2 enemy bases, 3 or more enemy squads, and the 
 great fox. You have to kill all of the enemys and make sure they don't get anywhere near Great 
 Fox, or insta game over!
  
  This is all good, but the thing is, It's just so frustrating fighting off, like, an army, then 
 losing because a single ship managed to get to Great Fox. The biggest problem however, is the repetivity. 
 Is that a word? Repetitiveness. No, wait... ahh who cares. Anyways, the game is so repetitve! You 
 get more endings by playing through different levels, but the farther you get, the more you have 
 to play the same level over and over. Trust me, the first level is the most annoying thing ever. 
 This also ruins the strategy, as you've played the same level, you already know the enemy bases 
 locations, and how to beat them.
  
  The graphics are great, but the character designs suck. I mean, why does everyone look so weird? 
 Especially the Great Fox itself. It looks nothing like it should. There was no reason to change 
 it in the first place, but they did anyway. Sound is good, but some of the songs get annoying after 
 a while. I suppose the replay value is good, but only because it forces you to play through it 
 multiple times.
  
  The story makes me angry. There are multiple plot holes and weird phrases. Such as... Star Wolf: 
 Cram it, fuzzy. We all got whipped. Take it like a man. Oh, and who could forget, Falco: those 
 bunch of greedy so and so's! 
  
  Oh, the plot holes. Andross was the main SF baddy up until Assault. Well, Andross is literally 
 a giant head and 2 giant hands. That was what made him cool. Well, apparently, he had *** at some 
 point, and had a son or daughter. The guy doesn't even have a friggin' pelvis and he has a kid. 
 Whatever. Then his son or daughter had a son, who grew up to be at least 17 in this game. Peppy, 
 who was older in Assault, somehow married a woman 40 years younger than him and had a daughter. 
 Confused?
  
  Okay. In 64 Fox was about 18. In Adventures, he was probably about 26. In Assault, 27. Command 
 takes place at least 19 years after, making Fox 46. What's really confusing, is Peppy. Peppy was 
 probably 50 in 64. He was senial in adventures, which makes sense, because he was 58. He seemed 
 to get less senial in Assault, even though he aged a year, making him 59. Now, in order for the 
 story to make sense, Peppy would immediatly have to have a child, and was most likely 61at the 
 time or birth. His wife was obviously younger, maybe even 20. That's a 40 year difference!
  
  Anyways, Peppy has a child at 61, okay, fine, that makes no sense, but whatever. This makes 
 Peppy 78 in this game. So, that means we've got this old fogey piloting the cornerian army. Ohhhh, 
 crap. But this makes no sense, as Fox appears to not have aged at all, as opposed to Star Wolf, 
 who seems to be slowly aging. At least I think he is, he seems to be growing an old dude beard.
 
  
  In one sentance: This makes no sense. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: meesey01
Rating: 8.3
Date: Sep 21, 2006 3:48 am PT
Review:  Fox Mcloud has made his Nintendo DS debut in a great game called Star Fox Command. It features 
 the DS's revolutionary controls, great online play and fantastic graphics. This game lacks one 
 thing, length. I passed it in the first day I bought it, it only took about 2 hours.
  
  The controls in this game are fantastic, they are all stylus based and quite easy to use once your 
 use to it. You can perform all the standard arwing manuvers such as the loop-de-loop, u-turn and 
 barrel roll. Even just the way you guide yourself in certain directions is quite easy and you won't 
 find yourself reaching the edge of the touch-screen on many occasions.
  
  I live in Australia and have played online play with this game although it took a while to locate 
 a game to join. This is mainly due to time-zones. Although if you lived in the US or Japan you 
 can be assured that many people will be online at a time making it easy to locate friends or random 
 matches. The online play is similar to the missions in single player mode.
  
  The graphics in this game are fantastic, the best I've seen on any DS game to date. Nice crisp 
 graphics allowing you to tell the diffference between arwings. If you simply want a game for its 
 graphics then this is the game for you.
  
  The only letdown is the length, I clocked this game the day I bought it and felt cheated. There 
 are several different level combinations you can go through like most Star Fox games but still 
 doesn't make up for it. The bosses are also too easy meaning you probably won't lose many lives 
 throughout the games. I think games should have bits where you get stuck for a week or so before 
 you can move on, there is no such thing in this game.
  
  Overall a decent game, great graphics and gameplay but couldn't hurt if it was a little longer. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ShenlongBo
Rating: 6.5
Date: Sep 25, 2006 6:44 am PT
Review:  The Star Fox series has long been divided between two extremes. On the extreme right you have the 
 classics: Star Fox on the Super Nintendo, and its sequel on the Nintendo 64. On the left, the outcasts: 
 Star Fox Adventures and Star Fox Assault, each GameCube titles. The DS version of Star Fox is like 
 a link between these. It's still not a pure rail-shooter like Star Fox 64, but it also doesn't 
 make you get out of the Arwing and fight on foot like Star Fox Assault did. As such, it gets just 
 enough right to be passable, but still gives a hefty reminder that Star Fox just isn't what it 
 once was.
  
  In this adventure, the Star Fox team doesn't take you into the thick of battle at the beginning 
 of every level. Instead it takes you to a map on the touch screen where the missions transpire. 
 Accomplishing these missions requires that you destroy all the enemies. However, if you lose all 
 your lives, run out of turns, or let your mothership be destroyed, you lose.
  
  Playing it all out is simple. The limited amount of turns you get for each mission will ensure 
 that you try and rout the enemy fairly quickly, but assorted power-ups such as missiles and refuel 
 stations warrant the occasional detour. To get things going, you use the stylus to literally draw 
 out short flight paths for each character and then double-tap to end your turn when you're satisfied. 
 After your turn has been confirmed, all of your characters, as well as onscreen enemies and missiles, 
 move in sync along their respective paths.
  
  These sequences are commonly billed as strategy , but that's strictly a formality. Common sense 
 sequences would be more appropriate  and more honest. In a given scenario, you might opt to send 
 one character toward an enemy mothership because they carry more bombs, and another character to 
 destroy a missile because they can lock on to it. This technically qualifies as strategy, but is 
 so rudimentary that it's more like fitting a square peg in a square hole. Not only that, but If 
 you wanted to, you could ignore the logistics altogether and still accomplish the mission  often 
 easily.
  
  So the strategy component, though shallow, is amusing and serviceable, but that's not why we play 
 Star Fox. We play it for the combat sequences, where the real magic happens. Or at least, where 
 it's supposed to happen. For better or worse, every aspect of controlling the assortment of Arwings 
 is relegated to the touch screen. To speed up, simply double-tap on the top of the screen. To slow 
 down, tap the bottom of it. Barrel-rolling is done by quickly sliding the stylus back and forth, 
 while loop-de-loops and u-turns are as simple as tapping touch screen buttons . The only thing 
 you won't do with the stylus is shoot your standard lasers, because that's what all the other buttons 
 do  even all four directions on the D-pad . That makes ten shoot buttons in all. Ten. That's at 
 least eight too many.
  
  There's no getting around the fact that Star Fox Command over-flaunts what the DS has got. Gamers 
 familiar with NanoStray have seen this before, where changing weapons was needlessly assinged to 
 four touch buttons instead of just using the four normal buttons on the DS. NanoStray also suffered 
 for having no alternative control options to amend this, and the same is true for Star Fox. So, 
 instead of assigning barrel-rolls to the triggers, you just have to get used to trying to steer 
 as you slide the stylus from side to side. Instead of letting the d-pad control acceleration and 
 braking, you must adapt to the double-tap scheme and the unwanted changes in aircraft attitude 
 that result. These quirks aren't insurmountable, but they're cumbersome all the same.
  
  Still, a thousand alternative control options couldn't have saved the gameplay, which is what ultimately 
 shoots Star Fox Command down. Here's a rundown of the typical sortie: a number of enemies, usually 
 between two and ten, flies around in circles. As you engage them with laser blasts. . . they pretty 
 much just keep flying around in circles. Eh? When they finally decide to return fire, they usually 
 fly directly in front of you (just like real dogfighting) and open up their flickering weak points 
 that you blast away at for massive damage. They do a good job of shooting steady streams of projectiles 
 your way, but sustaining barrel-rolls deflects their shots, keeping your life bar full. Do the 
 math. This little charade usually goes on for around three seconds per enemy, or around a minute 
 to wipe out the whole gaggle. Once they're destroyed, you collect their grey, star-shaped cores 
 , then head back to the overworld map or off to engage another set of enemies with a different 
 character. Rinse, repeat.
  
  Then there are the mothership missions. In these, the gameplay is basically the same as above, 
 but with a small, anticlimactic twist at the end. This time, after the enemies have been destroyed 
 (all both of 'em) , the game automatically places you on a new course  a series of big red squares 
 that lead to the mothership's vulnerable underbelly. To win, pilot your Arwing through said series 
 of big red squares that lead right to the mothership's vulnerable underbelly, barrel-roll when 
 you're there, and you win.
  
  Finally, there are the missile missions  probably the most entertaining mision type of all. Remember 
 the big red squares that led right to the mothership's vulnerable underbelly? They're here too, 
 only this time they lead to a big red missile. On flying through those big red squares, you'll 
 catch up with that big red missile, lock on to it (or just mash a shoot button or two. . . or ten) 
 and take it out. If the character you're using can't lock on, these missions are somewhat challenging. 
 With a target-locking character, you can beat them by accident.
  
  Like any respectable space shooter, a variety of settings keeps the visuals fresh, even as the 
 gameplay goes stale. The staple archetypal battlegrounds, such as deep space levels littered with 
 hulking brown meteorites, citiscapes painted in crimson twilight, and vast expanses over Cornerian 
 oceans are all accounted for, and they look terrific. Unfortunately, the same can't be said for 
 the various spacecraft, which are all flat, sparsely detailed, and only mildly shaded. The enemy 
 ships are just plain weird. With few exceptions, they are mostly just abstract constructs of shapes 
 with wide angles, broad faces, and flashing lights. A few physical differences between the Arwings, 
 like how Falco's has three little feathers on its wingtips, add a bit of personality, but they 
 don't hide how utterly sterile the designs are as a whole. The ships look especially bad when viewed 
 against the beautiful backdrops, and there is a striking disconnect between them that drags the 
 entire package through the mud.
  
  In spite of its faults, it's entirely possible to have an entertaining, if short-lived, run with 
 this game. The application of touch controls is a bit overzealous, but piloting an Arwing via the 
 touch screen is still fun in a whimsical kind of way. The online battles via Wi-Fi might also be 
 enough to keep you biting the line once the single player campaign loses its flavor, but given 
 the fact that there are still better ways to spend time on the Wi-Fi net.
  
  StarFox Command is evidence of the series slowly creeping back to its roots, but the developers 
 still can't resist the urge to try something new with it. That's all good and well, but enough 
 is enough already. The past three installments in the series, to include this one, prove that what 
 Star Fox really needs is to flip a u-turn and go back to the rail-shooter greatness it used to 
 be. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Drewman419
Rating: 5.9
Date: Sep 19, 2006 2:45 pm PT
Review:  This game is ok but has its problems. First the single player is easy and simple. The story of 
 the game is random but hey atleast its a story. I dont think i would reccomend it for multiplay 
 if you look back at starfox 64 it was a great single player game but the multiplay was dull and 
 boreing. The dog fights were too easy and too fast and the maps were extremely boreing this what 
 the DS starfox is like fun singleplayer but boreing multiplay. I was dissapointed that the gameplay 
 is more strategy then fast past action. I also realized that the enemys didnt always match the 
 enviorment. The singleplayer is very repetitive what you do is kill the enemys and then destroy 
 the mothership the same way you did before you also have a boss to fight every once and while. 
 There are some ups though the controls are smooth and are fun once you get use to them. The maps 
 are freeform which is also fun. This game is definitely a rental. The game is fun for a few days 
 then it gets dull and boreing. Hopefully nintendo can make a Starfox like the N64 version in the 
 comeing years. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: the_Hippest_Cat
Rating: 8.7
Date: Sep 19, 2006 8:04 pm PT
Review:  Star Fox has finally captained its way on to the Nintendo DS. A new strategic element allows the 
 player to plot out their attack plans using the infamous touch-screen interface that also allows 
 for a fresh feel on spaceship combat when using the touch-screen to maneuver your ship.
  
  The Simple touch based controls that are fun to use and easy to master, immersing the player in 
 all the action of the Star Fox franchise dogfights. All the familiar faces are at your command, 
 free to maneuver in loops and rolls, deflecting attacks, dropping bombs and firing their canons 
 as they take out a tactical array of enemies, missiles, and mother ships. It begins with the Star 
 Fox fleet disbanded after putting Andross out of the picture, however when a new fish-form alien 
 shows his face, ol Fox McCloud rises to the occasion. After the initial play through the game, 
 a variety of choices become unlocked, leaving several ways to go about Commands replay value, 
 meeting different characters and foes, driving the surprisingly intense moments of story further 
 as you try to save the Lylat system. Whats best is that the multiple story lines dont all end 
 on the same note, rather they each wrap up in their own, unexpected way; its a treat even worth 
 replaying the Slippy missions for.
  
  However, it is to note that although the story does take many directions, each plays out over the 
 course of a mere 2 or 3 hours. That said, the multiplayer is fox-tastic, and really completes the 
 value of the package, allowing for up to 6 to play locally on a single DS game card, or 4 player 
 multi-card action over Nintendo WiFi. The sound effects are stellar and the graphics are clean, 
 crisp, and classic, with all the polygons and hard lines that made the franchise on the SNES and 
 N64, a welcome spectacle for Nintendos handheld. Nabbing highly respectable scores and holding 
 its own in the top of the sales charts, I give Star Fox Command an 8.8/10. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: darussell1958
Rating: 3.3
Date: Sep 18, 2006 10:10 am PT
Review:  I was all excited in anticipation of this games release. I played it for about 30 minutes and wished 
 I had never spent the time even going to the store. The controls are OK.. the story line is boring 
 and all in all the game just falls short of all the pre release hype. The game falls short in so 
 many ways... Graphics might be the best thing of the game. I like the DS and the use of the stylus 
 but the moves are not that easy to perform for many of the maneuvers needed to make the game enjoyable.
 
  I think the original Star Fox for Game Cube was a much better game.. Very disappointing. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mystic_Flames
Rating: 8
Date: Sep 24, 2006 12:54 am PT
Review:  Fox McCloud is just your typical mammal looking to have a great time flying through the skies and 
 stars of the Lylat system. Accompanied by his buddies: Falco, Peppy, and the always obnoxious Slippy, 
 Fox has guided bored kids with fast-paced game-play for years, with visuals that were always among 
 the best on the series respective consoles. Yet, over the years, Fox decided to take a break from 
 what he did best -- a change that would haunt the lives of his fans for years to come. Why Nintendo? 
 Why break from a successful formula that wasnt broken in the first place? With Adventures and 
 Assault a distant memory, Star Fox Command arrives to bring the series back to its roots. And while 
 it doesnt fully succeed, it is the closest to the real deal since Star Fox 64.
  
  Probably the most significant addition to Star Fox Command, which sets it apart from its predecessors, 
 is the inclusion of a real story mode. Though each member of the team had their own objectives 
 and opponents to contend with in the past, the plot was never much of a thought during game-play. 
 What could be so interesting about a rail-shooting title with some farm animals as the main characters 
 anyway? Well ultimately, the reason for this change is the games placement in the series. Being 
 the fifth game to come along in the past fifteen years, Star Fox has accumulated quite the collaboration 
 of events. What makes the single player worthwhile is the inclusion of several enemies, allies, 
 and locations from the past; providing a trip down memory lane to those who have been with the 
 series since the beginning.
  
  * Star Wolf? Check. *
  
  * The original team in all their glory? Check. *
  
  * A handful of enemies you thought you 
 saw in Star Fox 64? Check. *
  
  * Mumbling speech effects seen in the SNES version? Check. *
  
  Well, perhaps the last one 
 on the list there isnt so awesome, but at least it sort of acts as a tribute to the original . 
 . . or they were just busy and didnt have time to hire voice actors.
  
  As said earlier, one of the biggest complaints against the last couple of Fox branded titles was 
 the lack of flight missions. With little to no air combat, one had to wonder why they still called 
 these installments of games Star Fox. Nevertheless, there are plenty of fire fights to look forward 
 to in their latest venture, along with the inclusion of a new game-play formula. Yes, the folks 
 over at Nintendo have finally decided to inject a strategic element into the equation, cleverly 
 providing a use for the touch screen in ways not seen before.
  
  Star Fox Command will have you flying through nearly a dozen different worlds, each with their 
 own objective and format. Each stage is broken into turns, in which you will usually be allotted 
 two or three. Using the stylus, you can move each of your units to different areas on the map, 
 providing it abides within your Arwings fuel limit. Once you and an enemy vessel meet, the combat 
 session will commence, with the premise being eerily similar to turn-based RPG battles. Quite strange 
 how some role-playing games share a connection with titles of a differing genre.
  
  And it is this connection that opens up the most exciting portion of the game: the air battles. 
 Within each confrontation resides the rail-shooting combat sessions, which will have you battling 
 numerous enemy ships, ground turrets, and alien hybrids. Each opponent differs in strength from 
 the other, and how well you do in each stage, depends solely on who you choose to fight them with. 
 Not only are your teams personalities different, but their ship designs are as well. From Slippys 
 fast-firing turbo shooter to Falcos multi-lock function, the outcome of later missions will depend 
 on picking the right candidate for the job (and yes, Slippy is actually useful in this game) .
 
  
  However, it is the way you actually control the movements of your squadron that make up the most 
 interesting portion of Star Fox Command. Instead of simply using the control pad for direction, 
 you will primarily be falling upon the touch screen for guidance. Though this may seem awkward 
 at first, the controls really do get better as time goes on. Moving left and right amongst shifting 
 skies and lava-filled wastelands will seem a breeze with practice and you will wonder why Nintendo 
 didnt use this approach earlier on. Somersaults and U-turns are practically automatic, with their 
 actions being triggered by a pre-set button on the bottom screen. The bomb makes the easiest transition 
 to the new control scheme though, requiring a simple point-and-click action to release its devastating 
 effects.
  
  STAR. FOX. IS. BACK.
  
  Though thats not to say there arent some reoccurring detriments along the way. For starters, 
 one can be sure the developers were smoking something when they thought up the missile deterring 
 missions. Within each of these sequences, you will be forced to fly through a series of rings in 
 order to stay on track with the missile. There are several of these instances throughout each planet 
 you visit, with the primary problem being the lack of game-play variety within these encounters. 
 Every missile is the same as the previous one. Fly through some rings, speed up, keep flying through 
 said rings, and lastly, attempt to destroy the missile. The problem is that every time you go through 
 a ring, you speed up, a lot. And those who suffer with the touch screen controls early on, will 
 definitely go insane after losing track of the explosive for the tenth time.
  
  To make matters worse, most of the missions that you will fail will not even come from the rail-shooter 
 portions. The frustration lies within the strategic setup before the battles, where one wrong decision 
 will force you to replay the whole thing over again. For example, say you move your units up the 
 map toward the final enemy base. Fog-of-War is scattered throughout the environment, making it 
 easy to miss certain units during the heat of battle. Then finally, just as you make it to the 
 heavily guarded stronghold, you notice a single ship pop out from under your main base. You see, 
 the Great Fox serves as your groups center of command and losing it results in a game over. Yet, 
 the problem is, ANYTHING can destroy it. So that one tiny enemy unit just took out your main base, 
 resulting in a failure that wasted nearly an hour of your time. No mid-level saves. No warning 
 messages. No mercy.
  
  It is easy to point out that Star Fox Command is far and away the hardest adventure ever undertaken 
 by the group. The radical change in both the presentation and mechanics of the title will certainly 
 have people moaning in frustration at times, even to veterans of the Star Fox line.
  
  Yet, we can all breathe easier knowing the best part of Nintendos unique flight series has returned.
 
  
  Flying throughout the snow-filled mountains of Fichina is certainly among the finest moments of 
 the title. For Star Wolf is truly a fiend who knows how to bring about a great dogfight. When he 
 comes flying toward with you with lasers flaring, you will know you are in for one hell of a bout. 
 You retaliate, knowing full well that it is three against one. Thats right, not only are you up 
 against the great mercenary, but his two companions as well. How will you counter? Will you fly 
 in a circle provoking the attack while using some aerial maneuvers to get behind them? Or will 
 you barrel roll their onslaught and follow through with one of your deceptively concealed bombs? 
 The options open to you during these clashes are virtually limitless and truly show why fans love 
 this aspect of Star Fox so dearly.
  
  What people also love is being able to mow down some human competition, earning them the right 
 to rule the virtual skies. Thankfully, Star Fox Command comes with Wi-Fi functionality, giving 
 players who have an access to a wireless connection the chance to battle it out online. Bouts play 
 out as they normally would, with one-on-one, and free-for-all matches being the formats available. 
 The objective in these is to shoot down the average Joe opposite you, all the while stealing one 
 of their stars. Gathering enough of these will earn you the victory, letting you up your online 
 ranking just a bit more. Though problems exist within the system, such as avoiding defeat by simply 
 disconnecting, the overall experience is enjoyable and surprisingly lag-free. Well, for the most 
 part anyway.
  
  Star Fox Command is a title that truly surprised me. Thinking back on previous installments, in 
 addition to it coming out on the DS, definitely had me and my wallet nervous. However, one can 
 consider the title a safe bet when it is in the hands of the original creators themselves. Not 
 only does the title improve upon the storytelling aspect of the series, but the control scheme 
 as well. The addictive firefights have returned in all their glory, with the multi-player truly 
 adding a new dimension of play, not seen in any other handheld shooter out there. It is unfortunate 
 that a handful of problems hold it back from reaching its true potential, but that is something 
 weve all come to expect when it comes to anything not on a major console. Nevertheless, if you 
 want a quality shooter with plenty of charm (and you know you do) , you know where to look. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jacash3492
Rating: 8
Date: Sep 17, 2006 7:17 pm PT
Review:  Thats right, our favorite fox in the clouds, Fox McCloud, is making his debut on the DS. But that's 
 not all. He brought Slippy, Falco, Peppy, and Krystal on the ride as well. As you play the game, 
 you will encounter all different types of dangerous and large clusters of enemies. Now, the stylus's 
 job in this game is to make a line long enough to a certain point on the map before the ships fuel 
 runs out. You can lead yourself to a time bonus, rokets for the mothership, and of course, ENEMIES! 
 When you do that, you will have a certain amount of turns, if your turns run out before destroying 
 all the enemies, game over. But, you will be able to control whomever you desire. When you are 
 in battle mode, you will be able to control the ship of your choice freely. Now, I didn't quite 
 agree with the controls for flight. You will use the stylus to aim, that's good, but when you shoot, 
 you use the D-pad/arrows. Now, it can be hard to get used to, but it will get easier and easier 
 as you progress through the game. When you destroy a certain enemy, you will see a star come from 
 where he vanished. Collect it and get all of them before your time runs out. You need to keep the 
 clock going or else it is going to be hard for you to get through the game. All the characters in 
 the game that you control have different types of weapons built into there ships. Slippy has these 
 side-to-side lasers that do a fair amount of damage. Fox just has single shot lasers. I could go 
 on for a bit but I wont. A main priority in this game is to destroy all the motherships you can 
 find. When you are dragging your character around, just find an icon identifying it. Wi-Fi is also 
 featured in this game. You have a ranking of Z when you first play wireless, and as you win and 
 win, you will raise up counting backwards in the alphabet until you reach A. I suggest trying that. 
 The gamers on Wi-Fi do tend to try and hack so that can suck. What I am saying is every DS owner 
 needs to buy a copy of Star Fox Command.
  
  Gameplay- Any Star Fox fan would have to get used to some of the changes in the DS version. It 
 is nothing like Adventures or Assualt. You won't have ground combat at all in this game and that 
 probably disappoints us all.
  
  Story- The story seems like a rush to me. Nintendo should have paced there time better and should 
 have made it more smooth. It all goes together, but it is just a rush at times. I enjoyed the stroy 
 despite the time put into it.
  
  Controls- Seriously, the only thing I am disappointed with is the whole shooting deal. But it is 
 a new deal and if I stick with agreeing with the change, I will enjoy it more.
  
  Time- Jeez, the time, like I said before, is way to rushed. I finished the game in under 7 hours, 
 which usual games should take that long. I wished they extended the game more instead of making 
 it shorter.
  
  Internet: I love online play more then any game I have played it. You get to challenge people world 
 wide who have mad Star Fox skills. You start off with the ranking Z and have to win and win to 
 get to A. If you get a copy of this game, try Wi-Fi.
  
  RATING: Although this game has some flaws that should have been fixed, this game will get you SOOOOO 
 addicted with just spending a lot of time with it. 8.0 
::::::

::::::
UserName: me89me89
Rating: 9.4
Date: Sep 17, 2006 5:42 pm PT
Review:  I can't say i ever got into star fox games ever before but with the ds version i'm now a star fox 
 Foxy fan! It doesn't get much better than flying a ship around and icing people left and right! 
 The only thing i wish they did was make the levels more unique to the level you are on. I like 
 how you can play as anyone in the game and they all have different ships but of course slippy has 
 to be the worst!! This game is definitely worth the effort if you like flying games or hate em 
 you'll still enjoy bagging people in this game!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: snickerscd
Rating: 6
Date: Sep 16, 2006 7:56 pm PT
Review:  I bought Star Fox Command, hoping to add another fun, simple game to my DS library, actually, it 
 was mostly because Mega Man ZX still wasn't at my local store at the time.
  
  Needless to say, the game does provide for fans of the series (the people who are rating it so 
 high) there's a story mode, effective gameplay, and Wi-Fi play as well. The story mode even has 
 a multitude of endings, more on that later.
  
  Lately, I've noticed that none of my reviews have broken the '8' barrier, I believe it's not possible 
 to rewrite reviews though, because after giving the game Pirates a second chance, I fell in love 
 with it.
  
  But I have to say, yet again, this game deserves the score given by Gamespot, maybe even less.
 
  
  But let's start with some positive points, so as to make sure everyone knows that I honestly gave 
 this game a try. First, the controls are quite unique, and depend heavily on the stylus. It's almost 
 like you're controlling the Arwing with a mouse. Another cool thing about this game, is that you 
 get to control other ships besides that of Fox, and surprisingly, I thought just about every other 
 ship in the game to be better then Foxs'. Even Slippys'!
  
  The story is straight forward, apparently I missed some details in the last two Star Fox games, 
 but whatever. Once you beat the game, you are given the option to go back choose different paths, 
 thus creating different endings.
  
  But what do I not like about the game?
  
  The level design.
  
  Gone is the rail shooting design I know from the 64 game, this time, every 
 level is an open area that you go around accomplishing goals within a set amount of time. This 
 would be interesting in some ways, but what happens is you repeat the same three missions through 
 out the whole game, it's idiotic. The missions are, kill a certain kind of ship, stop a missile, 
 and do a barrel roll through the alien mother ships, that's it. Yeah, you're not shooting down 
 the same guys all the time, but it's very redundant.
  
  What I liked about the levels from previous games was that the levels built up the tension as they 
 went along, sure it was free, and you were always on a set path. But it was cool flying through 
 an enemy fleet blasting their battleships as they went by. This time, you're just flying in circles 
 looking for who you're supposed to kill.
  
  The Missiles are always the same, and the mother ships are always the same, towards the end, every 
 now and then, you'll fight a boss, and all you ever have to do is simply not let off your lasers.
 
  
  The Wi-fi is also very simplistic, there's a free mode, and a ranking mode, the first few times, 
 I never found any ranked players, once I did, I realize, it's not that great. The object is, of 
 course, to shoot over players, but that's not where the points come from, the points are from collecting 
 the stars they drop, which, anyone can get. It doesn't matter if you have all the kills in the 
 game as long as someone can get to the kill before you, it's totally lame, and there's no other 
 mode of gameplay. At least Mario Kart required you to have some degree of skill, and plus, on top 
 of that, Mario Kart allowed you to customize an avatar, I've not noticed that in this version.
 
  
  And another thing, the story is crap. I swear it was written by a twelve year old doing terrible 
 internet fan fiction, and that's saying something because just about all internet fan fiction is 
 terrible.
  
  As for the visuals and such? Well, you're not going to enjoy any of the levels, as you would have 
 in the previous titles. Not to say they look ugly, it's just that in the older games, it was like, 
 Hey, check out this awesome city you're in, in this game it's like, Hey, um... Yeah, .
  
  The voices are gone, back in favor of the character sound effects, and cutscenes are filled in 
 by poorly drawn furry characters.
  
  I don't mean to be harsh, I just found this game to be not all that great. I'm definately trading 
 this for Mega Man. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: brokenpineapple
Rating: 9.8
Date: Sep 16, 2006 6:44 pm PT
Review:  Starfox: Command has to be my favorite Starfox game to date! The game has a few flaws, but is everything 
 I hoped for and more. All I have read on the reviews is how poor the strategy element in the game 
 is, well don't trust it. I thought the strategy added more of an emphasis to how fun the game really 
 is. The controls are not hard at all, all buttons shoot and control the ship with the stylus, I 
 got used to them in about 4 minutes. Other reviews tell you how hard the game is along with how 
 unfun it is, lies... all of them. The game has a good storyline to support the fun and addicting 
 gameplay that makes this game as fun or better as any Starfox game to date. If you are looking 
 for a good game that is as good as eating, buy this game.
  
  The graphics in this game are miles better than Starfox 64 and as fun as it too, the controls are 
 not as jerky as you will hear some people tell you. This game is all that and a box of chocolate. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: FPS_ADDICTED
Rating: 8.9
Date: Sep 15, 2006 9:39 pm PT
Review:  This game is definitely the best starfox game yet. It has a great multiplayer, which includes online 
 play as well as several different characters to choose from. Single player may be annoying at some 
 times beacause of the repetitive storyline, but the enemies and the bosses never get old.
  As for the graphics they are excellent, better than metroid, even though it ressembles the old 
 style star fox (on the Snes) thats what people like, it was a great idea of reinitialising it into 
 this game. Unlike the other starfox games, this one has a strategy style battlefront, which enables 
 many different battle outcomes. Try this game out whether you like the style or not (at least rent 
 it) . It is a must have for any starfox fan.
  
  This game has a mild flaw, the sound. It is irritating and highly pitched for no reason. the music 
 during the dogfights may bring back memories but in those days you didnt realise how annoying the 
 music really was ... plus the voices of the characters are only random sounds having to do with 
 nothing more than lack of work.
  
  *Possible spoilers* The storyline in this game takes off from starfox assault on the gamecube, 
 Oikiny comes back (duh, they really like apes in this game) and a new ennemy is introduced called 
 the anglar (probably inspired by the aporoids) .
  
  The team members are there as well as long with a few new characters, the difference here is that 
 you dont get to fight alongside your companions, you control every character, instead of just controlling 
 fox. The thing here is that each ship has different capacities (including: laser, homing, shield, 
 bombs, boost) .
  
  Now the bosses, another difference from the other games lies here, the bosses are more simple, 
 shorter and thus easier to beat. Star wolf was really fun to fight (much more than in the other 
 games) . The bosses can be beaten very easily by mastering your aim while using bombs, which I find 
 ruins the game.
  
  Finally, I expected this game to be a failed remake of the old Snes style starfox. I bought it 
 beacause I read some reviews and also saw the score given by gamespot users was considerable high 
 compared to my expectations.
  
  This game doesnt quite measure up to Metroid prime: hunters, but it raises the impression of the 
 DS and might make the people who dont have a DS wish they did. If you dont have this game, trust 
 me , you are missing out on something. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: elcolto
Rating: 9.4
Date: Sep 13, 2006 10:36 pm PT
Review:  Better know as "foxy" this star fox game is one the of the best on ds and is Wi-Fi so what more 
 do you want from it? Well you can record your own voice and make cool sounds the charcters will 
 use in the game. When you get star wolf and his team it make you not want to put ur ds down but 
 when the red light comes on you gott pause it to plug the charge cable in. It contain a lot of 
 awesome in such a small cartrige. Sweet gwafixs for a ds and the replay value is very high. My 
 touch screen has a buch of new scraches from this game cuz i play it a lot 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Lennex2
Rating: 8.2
Date: Sep 10, 2006 8:32 pm PT
Review:  I was totally phyced when I bought this game. For the first few hours I loved it! I put it down 
 after about 3 hours of play. And revisted one of my previous games, then when frustrated with that 
 I returned to Star Fox to get a lil farther.
  
  I finished the game two hours later.
  
  Now, lets be fair, there are multiple 'story line' giving you a differnet route though the game... 
 but if I have to sit though another five hours of gameplay that consists of 4 hours of talk and 
 1 hour of gameplay to get through all the endings of this game... well I'll just trade it in before 
 that!
  
  The core single player game is fun. I don't mind the control layout. However the speed up and slow 
 down commands are iffy. Everything else is pretty easy to handle and complete.
  
  The different characters unique ships are fun and offer interesting techniques. (Krystals ship 
 is just amazing... once Krystal's on your team, the rest of the game is pretty easy!)
  
  Gameplay is fun and addictive. The strategy segment can be frustrating, but it's still offering 
 another gameplay element that is exciting... to me anyways.
  
  The multiplayer is probably the major reason why I won't be selling the game after I finished the 
 single player. It's fun, and very entertaining! I often find myself joining games to blow everyone 
 up (but mostly get blown up myself)
  
  Overall, a great game. One of the better ones for DS, just too short... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: wickerman2004
Rating: 8.1
Date: Sep 10, 2006 11:36 am PT
Review:  Have to say I didn't see Star Fox coming for the DS - it hit me outta left field. I've been with 
 Fox since game 1 - so I have HIGH expectations on this title - to the meat of it!:
  
  First thing you notice is the GRAPHICS, they are really sweet - the enivronments are superb, the 
 ships look great... everything looks great - well almost. The cut scene character models look retarded, 
 and the expressions stay the same... odd to see when someone is sad and they still have that same 
 blank expression... but that's just a minor quirk with it. The remaining graphics are nice also... we'll 
 get to that right now......
  
  GAMEPLAY in Star Fox Command is different than what you might expect. This is a mix of RTS and 
 open mode fighting sequences... all controlled by the ol stylus and one button. And you know what? 
 It works pretty good. It is a bit wierd at first to play the RTS breaks inbetween fights, but after 
 a few levels you get into it and start to see the level of involvement and planning you can carry 
 out - nice touch that doesn't bite you when you first get the game... but it does get you. Flying 
 in all-range mode all the time is a bit distracting at first, because each level has a timer... run 
 out... you lost that turn and a ship! At first this can keep you from relaxing and enjoying the 
 levels, once you get more comfortable with flying and attacking - you'll really enjoy the levels.
 
  
  WiFi works great, I don't think there is alot more to say about that... you find 3 players and engage 
 in a 3 round fight. OH NOES!!!!! There aren't alot of these here, but there are a few. Real Estate 
 for flying... this crops up in one of the MANY missle chases... you gottat remember to center the 
 stylus or you'll try to steer and find you've got no room on the touchscreen causing you to 'lose 
 the missles trail' - - - - - the story is retarded (period) granted star fox never had a stellar 
 story (no pun intended) but this is like something from a ceral box. Online fights - if one persons 
 either quits or gets dropped - the whole match is over.... O... K. :|
  
  End results an experience with this Command is very good - highly recommend the title, it's alot 
 of fun and has alot of replay value to it by the branching paths. Not the best Star Fox title, 
 but pretty good - better than I thought it was going to be. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: godoo
Rating: 9.7
Date: Sep 9, 2006 8:26 pm PT
Review:  OOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOO YEAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAA this was a great game idk who thought it 
 was bad but its freakin awsem as ****
  
  the only bad thing that kept me from giving a 10 was that it gets kind of repetitive, like i wish 
 the designers had created a level that was just one charecter vs 100 fighters or something like 
 a "Challenge mode" with none stop fighting that would have made it a 10 right then adn there.
 
  
  other than that the game was perfect and the wireless wi-fi is fun cuz i own lots of people :D 
 lol thats all from godoo untill the next review!!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: zacf
Rating: 9.8
Date: Sep 9, 2006 7:23 pm PT
Review:  as i said this game is grrrreeaaaattt!!!!! i really thought that this game wouldn't be that good.. 
 but i was wrong... this game rocks! this game would be worth buying a ds just for the game. i wasnt 
 even sure if i wanted a ds at first... but i got it a day after the lite came in and loved it.. the 
 games where starting to get old until starfox comand came out. you dont need "mad skills" to play 
 this game its easy. its really good controls and its actually fun to fly aroundi give this game 
 a 10 out of 10 on its gameplay! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nintendomania
Rating: 9.2
Date: Sep 9, 2006 11:43 am PT
Review:  You have to understand this game was different then I thought it would be. It is amazing don't 
 get me wrong but, I heard it was like the Nintendo 64 days. The game is about how the team splits 
 up and you need to reunite the team. While you try to connect the team you go into a turn based 
 stratagy against the enemy ships. You need to defend the great fox. (The main ship) When your ship 
 runs into the enemy at the end of the turn you battle them in "all range mode." You have only a 
 few enemies to destroy before you clear the area place. The strategy might be hard at times, but 
 overall its kinda simple. Great game you should try it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Flamingcoconut
Rating: 4.3
Date: Sep 13, 2006 5:09 am PT
Review:  So when looking at the initial screens of star fox command I was under the assumption that Nintendo 
 had taken a long hard look at themselves and realized that through out the platformer adventure 
 game and the run'n'gun shooter they had realized that what made star fox great was that it was 
 a very fun rail shooter. I had no idea that Nintendo would ignore that and make one of the worst 
 turn based strategy games I have ever played. Disgaea this ain't.
  
  The map is a very small, top down perspective that you guide with your pen, only actual strategy 
 is when you have a fork in the road because of no-fly zones which are just inexplicable red blobs 
 on the screen, and a mysterious space fog which you have to scratch away with your pen.
  
  Now this would be fine and dandy if the fighting was any good, but no! The point of these timed 
 battles is to shoot down a number of one type of enemy and collect little stars floating in the 
 air when they die. They don't even fight you they just fly around minding there own business and 
 occasionally shoot things in any direction. You might think you would be worried about the around 
 60 second time limit for each match but don't worry it takes about 4 seconds to defeat everyone. 
 Sometimes you'll have to take down a mother ship which means flying in a straight line and doing 
 a barrel roll.
  I will say that the controls for flying are well done and it only takes a few minutes to get the 
 hang of stylus flight control, it could be just a bit tighter and speeding up and slowing down 
 isn't all too great but all in all it worked out to be very well done.
  
  If you like hearing your own voice if you were a dyslexic chipmunk then listen to the story where 
 fox has girl issues and you have to take out some fish empire for some reason.
  
  Multiplayer is pretty good, reminds me of all the time spent with the N64 multiplayer except not 
 as fun.
  
  *sigh* maybe Nintendo will give us our first true new Starfox game for the Wii. Lord knows we waited 
 long enough. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DefHalan
Rating: 8.8
Date: Sep 9, 2006 9:18 am PT
Review:  I am one of the biggest fans of the star fox games. I own everyone and I must say out of all of 
 them this is in the top 3. This game take Star Fox where he has never gone before, Wi-Fi. The single 
 player will have you going back and trying to see all of the different endings and the mulit-player 
 will have you yelling ay your DS when you killed your best friend or some guy you have never meet 
 before.
  
  The Single player is mix of turn-based strategy and free flight dogfights. This game also has multipul 
 endings that will keep you going back and seeing all the endings. In the begging Fox is all by 
 himself. Slippy went off with his girl friend, Peepy became comander of the army, Falco ran off 
 and fox made Krystal leave him so she wouldn't get hurt. You get a call from Peepy that says your 
 home world is being destroyed. And you move out.
  
  The multi-player I haven't gotten to play as much but the little that I have feels vary well done. 
 There are no big changes fromsingle player controls and multi-player contols. In multi-player there 
 are more items to be picked up that really change the game compared to single player. There are 
 laser upgrades, sheild upgrades and invisiblilty power-ups. Plus, as in single player, when you 
 kill a player you must collect a star that they drop. I have heard of people stealing stars but 
 I haven't see that happen yet.
  
  This game is very well done and controls are better that I expected. If you are a fan of the series 
 or a fan of dogfights this is a must have. This is one of the best games out for DS and if you 
 don't have that big of a collection then you might want to pick this up. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: third_eye_blind
Rating: 7
Date: Sep 9, 2006 1:04 am PT
Review:  Star Fox has had many ways of playing. When I played this one I had no clue what I was doing. After 
 about 20 minuite or playing. I finally saw the strategy the game has in it. Star fox command is 
 a hard game to complete but its finally a game that doesn't take less then 5 hours to beat with 
 out practice. I think Star Fox should be added to your collection due to the change of the game 
 play. This game is also wifi meaning you can battle people around the world as well as your own 
 friends. This game also includes the feature that you can make one of the character talk in your 
 voice simply by using, one of the many Ds features, the mic. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: senorverde17
Rating: 8.7
Date: Sep 8, 2006 6:00 pm PT
Review:  Like it says above, Star Fox Command is a quality Star Fox and Nintendo DS game. Star Fox Command 
 takes a little bit from all the previous Star Fox games, some real time strategy, the touch screen 
 capabillites of the Nintendo DS, and combines it into a game worthy of bearing the Star Fox franchise 
 name. The branching story missions allow for alot of replayability, and the balance between difficulty 
 is near perfect, with a diverse array of enemies and bosses. The story and character dialogue is 
 okay and also makes references to the other games in the Star Fox franchise. The only thing missing 
 is the voice acting, but it isn't that much of a problem. They give you an option to record your 
 own voice, but it's not that important. The stylus-control may take a little bit to get used to, 
 but once you get the hang of it, you'll be flying with ease.
  
  There are only one fatal flaw with the game, which is the multiplayer. There is no "true" multiplayer 
 DS to DS mode, so if you want to play with some friends, you're gonna have to choose download play, 
 which in my opinion, is a major letdown.
  Playing over Wi-Fi is fair and balanced, everyone is the same character, in the same ship, so it 
 all boils down to skill, or who gets the plasma cannon first. If you don't like the idea of playing 
 against people with a higher ranking than you, you can choose Random Battle to be matched up with 
 opponents with a similar rank.
  
  All in all, Star Fox Command is a quality game to purchase for the Nintendo DS. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GeekyDad
Rating: 8.8
Date: Sep 9, 2006 9:07 pm PT
Review:  ~Star Fox Command~ The DS has wings... Arwings, that is! 
  by GeekyDaD 
  
  September 8, 2006 - I have to admit, when I first heard about the game back around the time of 
 this year's E3 I wasn't terribly thrilled. I love Fox well enough, that is to say he's my favorite 
 playable character in Super Smash Bros. Melee. But generally speaking, I'm not a huge fan of shooters. 
 However, when the game was released I grew curious about it, and began reading good things about 
 the game's story. Now that's the stuff that catches my attention! I'm a sucker for a good story, 
 and after watching a slew of videos and reading various reviews of the game I resigned myself to 
 give it a try. 
  
  Story: The story in Star Fox Command (SFC) is perhaps not as integral to the game as is the interaction 
 between the characters. The backdrop of the story is that a group called the Anglar is seeking 
 galactic domination. Sound familiar? Well, that's because the game is a parody of every space opera 
 -- perhaps most notably the Star Wars saga -- ever to hit the big screen; and to that end it's 
 very successful. The character dialogue is at times truly hilarious, and always endearing. Though 
 the initial playthrough is frightfully short (it took me a little over two hours to complete) , 
 there are 9 different endings. 
  
  Now when I say endings, I don't mean that you are required to play through the entire same experience 
 just so you can get at a mere morsel of additional gameplay & story. No, you play portions -- sometimes 
 more, sometimes less -- of the initial story, and then move into other areas of the game that were 
 previously locked. In turn that will reveal new characters, new ships and new backgrounds and enemies. 
 
  
  Gameplay: If you believe what I'm about to write here in this review, then SFC is the stylus-based 
 game all DS owners have been waiting for. Big words, no? But piloting a starship is so right for 
 the DS' interface. Everything, with the exception of firing your ship's weapons (either laser or 
 plasma) , is done using the stylus; and it couldn't be more intuitive. That's not to say that it's 
 easy -- it's not. It will inevitably take some time to get used to how the various ships handle 
 using the stylus control. In addition, you'll be performing barrel rolls (where the ship spins, 
 either to reflect enemy fire, collect power-ups, or other such functions) , U-turns and Loops all 
 on the touch screen. Other interesting touch features include double-tapping (and holding) on the 
 top part of the touch screen to perform a boost; double-tapping (and holding) on the bottom part 
 of the touch screen to brake; and using a drag & drop method to place bombs -- very cool! 
  
  Of course, that's the meat of the gameplay. The potatoes are actually served up first, and 
 they're in the form of turn-based strategy. The instruction manual breaks the gameplay up into 
 3 phases: Flight Path Phase, Movement Phase and Combat Phase (which I've described already in the 
 previous paragraph) . Flight & Movement Phases are what make up the turn-based strategy portion 
 of the game. After a bit of dialogue that explains where the gameplay's headed, you'll move into 
 a mission. At the start of the mission you are usually faced with some "fog of war." You are enabled, 
 during each turn, to use the stylus to scratch away a limited amount of that fog. You then draw 
 flight paths for whichever ships happen to be available to you in that mission -- and can even 
 fire missiles from the Great Fox if available. Once you've got your armada in place, double-tap 
 on the touch screen to execute the Movement Phase. If any of your ships encounter an enemy they 
 are then taken into combat. 
  
  The first time through the story mode might seem somewhat easy for veterans of the series -- though 
 I found it a healthy challenge myself -- but rest assured that the difficulty level increases with 
 the additional storylines. 
  
  As you may well be aware, SFC offers both single-cart multiplayer, as well as WiFi multiplayer. 
 In this one area of the review I'm going to break away from the essay and just give the pros & 
 cons of each: 
  
  Local Single-cart Multiplayer 
  
  Pros 
  
  -Single-cart multiplayer; well, that in itself is a pro in my book 
  -Surprisingly long-lasting 
 fun to be had 
  -Up to 6 players can play off of one cart 
  -Balanced gameplay 
  
  Cons 
  
  -Only one ship to play 
  -Cannot set the play timer 
  -Cannot choose the background 
 -- it's randomly chosen 
  -Only one type of download play 
  
  WiFi Multiplayer 
  
  Pros 
  
  -Play with people from around the world 
  -Play with up to 4 players 
  
  Cons 
 
  
  -Only one ship to play 
  -Cannot vote on a set play time 
  -Cannot vote on a background 
  -Only two modes of play 
  -Certain aspects of the play encourage 
 SPAM 
  -Action Replay users are seemingly prevalent online 
  
  Graphics: It's a beautiful game to play. Graphics aren't astounding -- that's not what makes them 
 beautiful -- there's nothing that this game does that other DS games can't do. It's just that the 
 developers really made the most of what the system has to offer. Both screens are used in a way 
 that maximize the visual experience as a whole. I also haven't noticed any framerate issues, or 
 other notable blemishes. Stills during character conversations are nothing extraordinary, but they 
 do the job and do it well. Q-Games' (the developers) mantra must have been "keep it simple, and 
 get the most out of the little bit that we go with." 
  
  Sound: Cute little jibberish voices, ala Animal Crossing: Wild World; a nice variety of uplifting 
 themes -- even peppy ones like the one playing when you're in combat as Lucy Hare; and all the 
 cool sound effects you'd expect from an action-packed space shooter like Star Fox Command. As you 
 unlock additional characters you can even go back and hear the themes unique to each character 
 by calling up their profile. The only disappointing aspect of the sound is that I was under the 
 impression you could record your voice, and at certain times throughout the game -- in response 
 to certain things that happen -- the characters would use your recorded voice snippet (s) . But it 
 actually just takes a collection of your voice samples and garbles them into yet more jibberish. 
 It doesn't sound bad to me, just not what I was hoping for. 
  
  Presentation: All the included elements of SFC really come together -- for the most part -- to 
 make a top-flight (yeah, it's a pun) DS game. I had no idea I would enjoy this game as much I am 
 enjoying it. The various storylines are put together in such a way that you just can't stop coming 
 back for more. The characters are all very cute and very loveable. There are options that allow 
 you to go back and play various, previously completed missions. And even though the online play 
 is not my favorite aspect of SFC, the multiplayer offering overall is really quite a strong one. 
 Even the manual is a beautiful, in-depth guide to everything you need to know about playing the 
 game. Lastly, the game's price comes in lower than your average Nintendo-published title: $30. 
 
  
  Who is this game for? Well, if any of what I've discussed in this review sounds appealing, then 
 this game is for any of you who are 10-years old or above. It's a smart-bomb of a game that didn't 
 perhaps get the same fanfare (or reception) as did Metroid Prime: Hunters, but does a lot better 
 job, in my opinion, of doing its job of being a fun game. 
  
  Thanks for reading & happy gaming! 
  
  -GD
  
  8.5 Presentation
  A healthy sampling of 
 each of the various elements of the game, and it's all patched together seamlessly. 
  
  9.0 Graphics
  A great example of the DS' power as a visual experience. Everything runs smooth, 
 and though no particular aspect of the visuals will dazzle you, it all works so very well. 
  
  8.5 Sound
  I love the music, love the sound effects, and I even love the jibberish. I just 
 wish the voice-recording option had been fleshed out a little more. 
  
  9.5 Gameplay
  Another truly addictive DS title that makes exceptional use of the touch screen. Missions are composed 
 of a balanced combination of strategy and action. 
  
  8.0 Lasting Appeal
  The online play is meh, but the local, single-cart multiplayer offers a surprisingly long-lasting 
 amount of fun. However, the greatest replay probably comes from the story mode, which is rare. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: -InsrtNameHere-
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 7, 2006 5:57 pm PT
Review:  In single player: You have a map selection screen, you draw a path around the map, and then once 
 you find enemies/missles, you get drawn into a fight, and then its 3rd person flying, using the 
 styless to meneuver and the buttons to shoot.
  I have to say, I was VERY scepticle about this game, especialy its Styless controlls, but it turns 
 out that it is very fluid and works Very well. The only problem is the brake and boost. I sometimes 
 accidentaly brake or boost, which is annoying, but anyway, the gameplay is based off of the never 
 released star fox 2, and it is freeroam, not a rail shooter. (free roam you fly around 360 degrees, 
 rail shooter is you follow a selected path and only go left right up and down.) The WiFi Is surprisingly 
 entertaining, with being able to select ranked and unranked matches, along with vs friends or random 
 players. THe story line is rather long, with 9 endings. THe sound is very good, with it being remixes 
 of the StarFox 64 music. And you even have the feature to record ur voice, garble it, and make 
 the piolets speak it! Very nice touch nintendo. The graphics are beutiful for a DS game.
  I would recomend this to anyone, and this game is really good.
  9/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rta
Rating: 8.8
Date: Sep 7, 2006 5:56 am PT
Review:  I didn't ever play Starfox "back in the day" so this this game is pretty new to me. Out of the 
 6 titles that I have purchased so far for my DS I can say that Starfox Command is the most fun! 
 The mission gameplay is very challenging to me. Laying out your routes to where you are going to 
 go next is awesome. ONE, just one, screwed up turn and you loose, the Great Fox is gonna get annihilated. 
 It's pretty unforgiving. Once you figure out how to better manage resources the easier it gets 
 to move around the map and accomplish things. The mix between strategy and shooter is really nice.
 
  
  The shooter (in flight) part is done really well and the graphics are top notch for a DS. Takes 
 some getting used to steering with the stylus but if I can get used to it anyone can... trust me. 
 I appreciate how much control you have over your ship with the stylus and that they made it easy 
 for left handed folks to adapt.
  
  The multilayer part of the game simply rocks... well... that is if you can find a game. I mean, you 
 are flying around dog fighting people... there's not much cooler you can say about it than that. 
 It's hard first off to find a game... takes forever to connect sometimes. Secondly, people are ALWAYS 
 disconnecting. It's very annoying and I end up going back to the mission after a handful of disconnects. 
 The best thing to do is play with your friends while sitting around in your living room with some 
 coffee and a handful of Oreos.
  
  Overall, for a Starfox noob I am really impressed by this game. Someone just gave me their old 
 N64 with Starfox so I am actually gonna go back and fire it up so I can see what the old SF was 
 about! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Legend_Dragon
Rating: 8.6
Date: Sep 6, 2006 10:26 pm PT
Review:  I honestly don't know what they were thinking when they made Adventures. Assault was a nice try, 
 but it was too short and needed more flying. Command won my heart back. Great flying levels, lots 
 of characters, and plot branches. One Player mode is truly astonishing. Using Stylus is a nice 
 change is a in controls, and while others might say it's horrible, I like it. It has good graphics 
 and sound, and requires strategy during a lot of the levels. Being able to choose your on levels 
 really adds on to the gameplay, in my opinion. The only thing that disappoints me is Wi-Fi mode. 
 If they put that last little "oomph" into it, they could have made it a lot better, but Wi-Fi mode 
 if fun for a while, and definitely worth a chance. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BenMarks1987
Rating: 8.9
Date: Sep 6, 2006 2:46 pm PT
Review:  Graphics and game play are good. Controls handle nicely even for first time players. The Turn based 
 system is for lack of better words just ok, nothing fancy. Those who like classic star fox may 
 be a bit dissapointed cause of the turn based idea. When engaged in a dog fight, the frame rate 
 is nice and steady with no glitches in the graphics. Touch screen controls work nicely and game 
 play for those who are left handed and right handed present little problems. Enemies do not put 
 up much of a fight, and the AI behind them seems almost too basic in skill level. Level design 
 seem a bit random. All in all this is a great game thats worth checking out. Great addition to 
 the series and DS gaming collection. Best new game since "New Super Mario Bros". 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Demonstrative1
Rating: 8.4
Date: Sep 6, 2006 9:04 am PT
Review:  The thing about Star Fox Command is it attempts to portray itself as a story-driven flight combat 
 game. There can be no doubt that the game has a lot of story sequences but there are a couple of 
 problems with this, the first being the sequences are never compelling, and the second being they 
 absolutely don't matter at all. No matter what ending you get (I've played enough to have gotten 
 nearly all of them now) , it always seems to veer wildly and without reason from what had already 
 been established.
  
  The other half of the game, the flight sequences, can actually be really engaging and fun. Some 
 of the quasi-minigames (Missile Slipstream, Mothership fights) can get a bit repetitive, but I've 
 found that they can still be really fun. The strategy of moving your ships and protecting the Great 
 Fox seems a little half-baked, and when I first picked up the game I was more frustrated by it 
 than anything, but it winds up not really detracting from the overall game.
  
  The multiplayer to me felt very broken and stupid. You can be flying along tailing another player 
 trying to get a lock, but then all of the sudden all of your health is gone and you're dead. It's 
 too unpredictable and too much based on luck to be much fun, in my opinion. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: THECARISMINE
Rating: 9.2
Date: Sep 5, 2006 4:16 pm PT
Review:  When I first turned the game on I was hit with some disappointment because I was hoping and thinking 
 it would be much like Star Fox 64 I was wrong The games battles are more like a board game in some 
 ways you see this square land on the touch screen and you only have so much fuel for one turn the 
 objective of each level is to hunt down enemy ships and destroy there bases The controls can't 
 be more simple with the touch screen but take some getting use to and most game play as well but 
 if you are a Star Fox Fan like myself the biggest change you will find in the game is the change 
 in the characters Slippy engaged krystal leaving Star Fox and many more surprises I beat the game 
 at least 6 times and each with different endings which is the one that goes with the series however 
 I have no clue nor do I honestly care The game gets so addictive you lose grasp of time big pluses 
 there and The best thing is unlike the last two Star fox games you really are flying throughout 
 the whole game WHOOT WHOOT!!!!
  WHOOT WHOOT!!!!
  
  Now for the online part of the game much fun and easily one of the other best things about this 
 game. It is a lot more fun then I thought it would or could be for that matter There is so much 
 game in the game it is a must have and since it gives you another game to kick A$$ in on WiFi why 
 wouldn't you want it 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Born_Twiztid
Rating: 8
Date: Sep 5, 2006 11:25 am PT
Review:  When I first heard about Star Fox Command, to tell the truth I really didn't think much of it. 
 After the last 2 GC titles, the series just wasn't what I had come to love.
  
  That in mind, I went ahead and gave the game a try at the local gameshop and within a few minutes 
 I was highly impressed and addicted. The core game is just like the old Star Fox and Star Fox 64, 
 none of the borish adventure aspects introvuced in the first GC game. And surprisingly, the controls 
 are very tight.
  
  Now, after playin Metroid Prime Hunters on the DS, I didn't think good aiming could actually be 
 pulled off right on the DS. Fortunately, this game does it right, and it's not even hard to pick 
 up.
  
  Your touch screen is the radar, and also you control for everything short of firing. Making tight 
 turns and keeping on target feel very fluid and natural, not jerky like Metroid. The use of the 
 touch screen to execute rolls (sliding the stylus back and forth) , was a little awkward at first, 
 but after a couple of dog fights it came natural and fit right in.
  
  The bombs have never been more effecient either. As opposed to shooting them out in front of you 
 as you have in previous games, you drag the bomb icon on the touch screen to the spot on the radar 
 where you want it dropped, making it easy to take out masive groups of enemies.
  
  The graphics are great for a portable game, and the sound is pretty good, if a little repetitive. 
 And your first play through will seem short lived and maybe a litle dissappointing, however that's 
 just the tip of the mountain. After your first play through you'll unlock the ability to make serveral 
 choices in the story sequences of the game, thus unlocking new locations, fighters and endings, 
 adding some depth to the game.
  
  The strategy sections of the game are simply held, but well molded, involving flying your ships 
 to specific areas to fight enemies, take down mother ships and shoot down missles aimed at The 
 Great Fox, which is simple enough, but beware, one slip with a missle and you loose it, and if 
 that missle or that enemy connects with the Great Fox, it's game over.
  
  The Wi Fi multi-player is also a welcome addition, allowing you to dog fight with players from 
 around the world and steadily increase your rank, and just plain have fun!
  
  All in all my only complaint with this game is the difficulty, which I expected more of from a 
 Star Fox game. The only really difficult parts of the game are some of the missle slip streams 
 you have to follow, because if you miss one beacon, you loose the missle and chances are it's gonna 
 hit the Great Fox and end your game.
  
  All in all though, this is a solid DS title, 100% worth picking up and trying. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SleepyCrat
Rating: 8.4
Date: Sep 5, 2006 9:38 am PT
Review:  The first thing you'll probably notice when playing this title is the controlling scheme. It comes 
 off very smooth and polished and is very responsive and comfortable. The stylus is used to control 
 flight and aiming and the other buttons and control pad take care of weapons controls.
  
  The single-player gameplay is very well done in a turn-based strategy setting in between flight 
 battles and with different paths that can be unlocked throughout the game.
  
  Sounds and visuals are very well done and don't leave much else to be desired.
  
  Only real 
 con of the game is probably it's length and shortness, which could be made up for with the multiplayer 
 modes (whcih I can't do, until my friend gives me my router back) .
  
  Peace and Practice 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GamerForca
Rating: 8.5
Date: Sep 4, 2006 7:49 pm PT
Review:  First of all, I think it was a crime for GS to give this game a 7.5. I think this is one of the 
 best games on the DS period. Not quite up to Star Fox 64's level in gameplay or graphics, but solid 
 nonetheless.
  
  Gameplay- The added TBS segments put a great twist into this game. I love TBS and thought they 
 did this quite well. Controlling your Arwing with the stylus takes a long time to get used to, 
 but when you do you'll love it. I still don't think they should force you to use it though. Almost 
 everything in the whole game uses the stylus and that was a great move by nintendo. Very innovative, 
 and took advantage of the touch screen like very few games have thus far. Most of it is flight 
 combat; the TBS doesn't last that long, which is great. I wish i could see the Aquamarine and Landmaster 
 in this game (and maybe even a foot-mission done right) , but you only use the Arwing, which isn't 
 necessarily bad. It's very easy to get a few of those endings, but after the first couple, it gets 
 pretty hard. Also, this game doesn't pack near as much action onto the screen at once as Star Fox 
 64 did. It's you against all the enemies at once instead of you and the crew (plus armies at times) . 
 But I do like the fact that ALL of the fights are on a circular battlefield instead of a straight-forward 
 one (excluding the missile chases) , which Star Fox 64 was mostly fly straight ahead and never turn 
 around.
  
  Graphics- Great for the DS. Even the touch screen has some 3D parts to it. The touch screen does 
 a great job with the map during the TBS segments, and the top screen looks pretty solid when in 
 flight combat. This isn't quite up to Star Fox 64 (in graphics) , but it's somewhat comparable. 
 It gets the job done, and that's what matters to me anyway.
  
  Sound and Music- Well, the voice animations are horrific. I know the DS isn't quite as powerful 
 as the 64, but you'd think the characters would actually be able to talk instead of making wacko 
 robot noises that makes them all sound like R2D2 off of Star Wars. I mean, C'MON, Star Fox 64 did 
 the voice animations very well. The other sound effects are fine. The music isn't really that good, 
 but I kept the volume off after gagging when hearing the voice animations anyway, so problem solved 
 *starts listening to I-Pod*.
  
  Story- It has a great Star Wars atmosphere which I've always enjoyed (though I'm not a huge Star 
 Wars fan) . It gets kinda dramatic at times (depending on which of the 9 endings you go for) and 
 will keep you tensed and alert and wanting more. Some great twists in the plot like always (don't 
 you love nintendo and their great in-game stories?) and some memorable moments. I've always like 
 the Star Fox stories and this one is fine too.
  
  Multiplayer- This game, unlike Metroid Prime Hunters, has a better single player than online, which 
 isn't a bad thing. The online is still pretty good, however, and probably as good as Metroid. You 
 can play up to 3 others online and I've always thought these kind of shooters were better than 
 FPS online. Pretty fun and hard at the same time, but I've had plenty of good matches. More disconnecters 
 though, which really sucks. in the local Wi-Fi, you can play up to 5 other friends and it gets 
 pretty intense. Better than the online if you can get 5 friends who want to throw down for a while.
 
  
  Replay Value- With 9 different endings and a great multiplayer, this game will keep you going for 
 a very long time (at least as long as Metroid) . I haven't had it very long, but haven't been able 
 to put it down for long. I'll probably be popping the online a year from now.
  
  Overall- Like I said, this game deserved better than a 7.5 and I think it's one of the best Star 
 Fox's to date. A great single player and online makes this one of the best DS games right now and 
 an absolute must-have. Only a few problems kept this game from being the best of the best. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tails8792
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 13, 2006 3:57 pm PT
Review:  StarFox Command come back to all dogfighting, all the time. The game story mode has nine endings, and 
 33 missions. The story mode is a little short and the AI is a little too simple to beat. This game 
 is the first in series to go online, making the muti-player much more inenjoyable. The mutilplayer 
 has one major flaw, it olny has one playable pliot, Fox. It's a downside because their are 15 playable 
 pliots in single player. Over all Star Fox Command is a great to take all power of DS touch srceen 
 and online mutiplayer, making StarFox return to its root in a big way!
  
  Oh yeah, this is also is my first review! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Viper596
Rating: 9.6
Date: Sep 4, 2006 3:15 pm PT
Review:  Star Fox Command is a different Star Fox at first glance. Gone are the rail shooter stages that 
 we had come to love of older games in the series. This is not the first time Nintendo has changed 
 the formula on us (Star Fox Adventure which was very good) and I doubt it will be the last. At 
 first you may find your self wondering why you are playing a strategy game and the battle sequences 
 may seem brief. Give it some time however and you will realize that this game has quite a bit to 
 offer. The battle sequences may be short but they are the most frequent of any Star Fox game to 
 date. The Boss/Min Boss battles are inventive and the touch screen controls handle beautifully. 
 One nice new feature of the game is the ability to drag and drop a bomb anywhere on the map. The 
 game is also highly re-playable due to its 9 different endings making this the most branching Star 
 Fox to date. The other added bonus of this game is the variety of ships you fly throughout the 
 different story lines, each with it's own unique look and weaponry. Star Fox Command really makes 
 you feel a part of the Lylat System. The visuals of the game are very pretty. Sunsets reflect of 
 of the water planet's surface. The underwater and above water levels look great as well. The ships 
 are all modeled very well and have great detail and reflectiveness. The only thing that has suffered 
 a bit is the sound. It is all the usual Star Fox sound but they still use animalese (Animal Crossing) 
 to talk. You can program in your on voice to be used for talking although it is still in animalese 
 (weird) . It is unfortunate that so few games for the DS have had full human speech yet. Star Fox 
 Command may be my favorite Star Fox game of all time or at least very close to Star Fox 64. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Plucky7
Rating: 7
Date: Sep 3, 2006 11:17 pm PT
Review:  When I bought this game I made so happy and I thought that this was going to be a great game but 
 my thought changed after playing it. I like that this game has Wifi play and I like the gameplay 
 a lot. Also the graphics look nice. When I first played this game the controlls felt weird and 
 bad but you get used to it. What I really hate about this game is that the story is so short. It 
 is not nearly worth $30 or $35. Well it matters where you get it. You can probably beat this game 
 in about less than 2 hours. When I was finally getting into it the game ended. I could not believe 
 it. Also between missions there were too much talking and the whole thing between Star Fox and 
 Krystal was stupid. So if you don't have Wifi I would wait till this game goes down to maybe $20 
 before you buy it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: technopirate
Rating: 7.8
Date: Sep 3, 2006 7:46 pm PT
Review:  Honestly one very fun, fast, somewhat callenging game. Very quick to beat one story, but to beat 
 them all takes time. It's just a fun game, the price can be a difficult choice to make you want 
 to buy it, but I found a great deal on it and couldn't be happier. Very interesting idea to make 
 it work with the touch screen as opposed to the normal set up, which would have worked (it worked 
 on the super nintendo) . But still a fun game. Let me put it this way, if you buy it, you won't 
 regret it. Besides which, the wi-fi is very, very, fun. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: deadmeat59
Rating: 8.7
Date: Sep 3, 2006 6:27 pm PT
Review:  This new star fox game on the nintendo ds is one of the best games on this handheld so far. It 
 has great graphics and they controlls are easyer to learn. In the ds its alot like the 64 game 
 but in some ways its better some ways not. the graphics seem to be around the same as the n64 , 
 but there is one major diffrecnts. in n64 you have to move like ur on a ride u can go back if you 
 miss somthing you cant get it cus you can only move forward up and down left and right. in this 
 new ds star fox you are free to fly around all you want. the singal player is tuff but fun , it 
 also has a nice story to the game. this ds game is a fun fast past games and the online is by far 
 the best i have seen yet on the ds. i have seen some lag on the ds online but other then that the 
 game runs great. the graphics look kinda fussy but the leves look great and you can see far. the 
 battles on the n64 seem more cinimadic then on ds . but the ds stil give you toons of fun at a 
 good price. if your looking for a great ds game with wi fi this is for you. even if you dont have 
 online this game still is great and worh the money. its a bit like prime hunters but with les frame 
 rate problrms. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: saiyandude
Rating: 8.8
Date: Sep 3, 2006 3:12 pm PT
Review:  This game is fun, immirsive, and adds a new interesting strategy element to the series. At first 
 when i looked at Star Fox Command i thought those graphics suck. Not true at all pick up the game 
 and the graphics are very nice for the DS. I also thought the strategy element seemed wierd. It 
 is wierd but it is interesting and doesnt make it such a mindless blast the crap out of everything 
 game. I will say one negative thing about the strategy element of the game and that is u must protect 
 the Great Fox in the game and if takes as much as 1 measly hit it dies and the game is over. It 
 cannot defend itself at all except for these missles u pick up during the missions but if 1 enemy 
 touches the Great Fox it is destroyed and u have to start the mission over. That is very irritating. 
 Also when i first got the game and did the tutorial i thought the stylus controls would not work. 
 Again i was very wrong. The stylus control scheme works magnificently. Now on to sound. The sound 
 in the game overall is very nice but they use that wierd blah blah sound effect when the characters 
 talk and it is really really annoying. Finally it has great replay value because there is 9 thats 
 right count em 9 different endings in the single player campaign. It may not take u long to beat 
 1 of em but it will take some time to beat all of them. Also the game supports Nintendo Wi-Fi connection 
 which is always nice for DS games and adds a tone of replay value. Thats about it. If you like 
 flying shooter games but dont mind a bit of thinking in a strategy element of the game go pick 
 this one up right now! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jdscrub
Rating: 8.2
Date: Sep 3, 2006 2:48 pm PT
Review:  When i first heard of the game i was really excited, i thought it would be just like starfox 64, 
 for a while i did not here anymore on it until a few days before it came out. i went out and bought 
 it and when i took it home i was suprised at the control style which is something alot of people 
 complain about, but i don't i really like the play style that is what the DS was made for was to 
 use the touch screen for things and starfox command does a great job using the touch screen for 
 controling your ship is really fun.
  
  Some people may be tuned off by the strategy part of the game but it is actually done alright although 
 it is trial and error in more difficult missions. there is one thing that i notice about the game 
 was the missile chase minigames i really hate them sometimes if you mess up you don't get a second 
 chance because it goes and smacks into the great fox and you lose the mission which makes you want 
 to break something at times, this can be especially frustrating when you only have a little bit 
 more to do.
  
  All in all it brings some new pieces to the starfox franchise that are some very welcome additions 
 but it does not have much of the classic starfox stuff but that does not bother me. alot of people 
 don't like this game because it tries something new but take it from me the new works and the old 
 is missed but the new is good. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kain_highwind
Rating: 9.8
Date: Sep 2, 2006 3:23 pm PT
Review:  I waited months for this game to come out. Once I heard about it I absolutely flipped! I coudn't 
 wait for this game to come out! Then I finally got it. I played for half an hour, then I forced 
 myself to turn it off. I wasn't able to stop shaking. Star Fox Command is the best game I've played 
 in a long, long time. The game is a mixture of strategy and space shooting, and can get difficult 
 at times. You get to play as over 14 different pilots and witness 9 different endings. The first 
 ending you see is OK, but some of the others might even bring you to tears! This game is huge, 
 and it will take awhile for you to finish. This is an awesome game with awesome single and multiplayer 
 modes, and I definitely recommend it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Widger5000
Rating: 9.7
Date: Sep 2, 2006 12:55 pm PT
Review:  Good - Great touch screen controls, great storyline, great graphics, gameplay, and sound, great 
 enemies and bosses.
  
  Bad - The battle maps might seem a bit watered down This DS title stacks up well to other great 
 DS games like Mario Kart, Animal crossing, New Super Mario Brothers, and Brain Age. The game begins 
 as a standard flight game. Displaying the storyline and giving a training program. And proceeds 
 through stages quite fast, you could beat the game the first time in about 2-3 hours. However, 
 don't forget that there are NINE, yes NINE alternate endings. I have only beaten two, and both 
 were emotional enough to make me cry, a game never made me cry in my life! The game has features 
 that include 16 characters, nine endings, stats for every character and their ships, WIFI, single 
 card gameplay, and a gallery of all the endings you have beaten. The Graphics, Gameplay, and Music 
 are all amazing, and the game lookes like it will last me a long while. I love it! It is a MUST 
 HAVE for all DS owners.
  
  Gameplay - The gameplay is addictive and intense. This game made me sweat like mad. The strategy 
 portion is new, and innovative and gets you into the game more. The touch screen controls work 
 very well.
  
  Graphics - The graphics are very good in this game, however the maps seem to be missing something. 
 They could use more obstacles instead of just flying through open air and shooting things down. 
 But over all they are great.
  
  Sound - Some people may find the animalese annoying, but I love it. The music in this game is good, 
 and the sound effects are great, the rumble pack adds a lot to this game, I recommend getting it. 
 Value - This game is worht your money, and shoudl definitly be added to your DS collection. It 
 also is good compared to other starfoxs. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: JMC47
Rating: 8.8
Date: Sep 1, 2006 5:55 pm PT
Review:  Let us all go back 10 or so years for a moment. Back in the last days of the SNES, there was a 
 Star Fox 2 game in development. Unfortunately, it wasn't finished in time for the consoles life. 
 The beta does exist on the net, and the game is basically this game on one screen without touch 
 controls (plus the awesome addition of transforming into a walker and kicking ass on the ground.) 
 Though the beta is way better in most respects than the completed version on the DS, the DS game 
 does the concept justice.
  
  GAME PLAY
  
  Frankly, I've played a lot of crappy games on the DS. I'm tired of it, and after I saw what happened 
 to the GC Star Fox games, I thought the series was dead. I was wrong. This is by far the best DS 
 game in the gameplay department yet. (Though I doubt it can hold it after the upcoming Zelda game 
 is released) It finally uses the touch screen to its fullest, providing accurate flight controls, 
 special manuevers, and free flight control, this is the best star fox yet. I do agree with Gamespot, 
 the one thing missing that the beta SNES game did have was memorable levels WITH free flying sections 
 and on rails sections. How it got cut, I don't know. That is the only problem with the gameplay, 
 it doesn't get old... but it does feel a bit like "fight two more generic levels then a boss" every 
 mission.
  
  The bosses on the other hand, feel like Zelda bosses a puzzle like way. They more likely than not 
 force you to think, and solve puzzles, albeit rudimentary puzzles but puzzles none the less. One 
 boss required you to flip blocks to form a picture before you could harm it. I'll admit that last 
 boss is completely awesome, and brings me back the Star Fox 64 days.
  
  The game does mix things up once in a while, by going different paths, you can go the same area, 
 and fight completely different enemies. Its a nice touch to help the generic battles.
  
  Oh, I almost forgot, but you get to draw your path on a map, and when you hit enemies a battle 
 starts. It really isn't Rome Total War in complexity, so even if you aren't a tactical genius, 
 its easy to win any mission if you have a good trigger figure in the actual battles.
  GRAPHICS
  
  Best on the DS yet. The levels are small, and pop up does occur, but the ships 
 look great. The anime-like cut-scenes are... at best mediocre, but they do push the story along 
 nicely. Your reading the text more than looking at the pictures anyway, so it doesn't affect too 
 much. The game doesn't slow down except near the very end. There is so much going on, that you 
 won't get mad or frustrated, and the fact is that it will last less than a minute, and then never 
 return. The explosions and under water effects are nice, and definitely add a layer of polish that 
 most DS games don't have.
  
  SOUND
  
  The blasters, the sounds of flying, explosions. Everything is perfect. The voicing though... is 
 strange. Its got the animal gibberish. The problem is, that it is annoying. You can mix it up by 
 adding your own voice in, which saves the sound from losing more points.
  
  The music on the other hand, it great also. I didn't find too much I remembered from the older 
 games, but the ones that were included were appreciated. The new songs all sounded great, and the 
 fact each fighter had their own profile music (for the most part) added a sense of character to 
 the... characters.
  
  VALUE
  
  Longest DS game I have. I've beaten the game 5 times, completely 4 of the possible 9 paths. The 
 first time through doesn't give you the best ending. in fact, the first ending sucks. But as you 
 go through, you get funny endings, sad endings, completely wierd endings. All of which, avoid the 
 best ending. Its actually pretty difficult to figure out how to get the best ending without 4 play 
 throughs. I'm used the games like NSMB, which took me a 4 hours to beat, so a 20+ hour game is 
 going to get huge points on the DS for value.
  
  TILT
  
  Because of the kind of game it is, Tilt for Star Fox Command is based on grab. As mentioned the 
 story is entertaining. Each character has a unique voice gibberish, I guess that counts for differentiating 
 them a bit. Story is what grabs me to games the most usually. This game the story grabbed me enough 
 at certain areas, and in others it didn't. But, to tell the truth, when going toward the best ending, 
 there were some very interesting facts about Fox's father thrown in for good measure, even questioning 
 Star Fox 64 goals. This story is no where near the level of Wind Waker or Metroid Prime, but its 
 servicable, and gets enough grab to keep you playing when it needs to.
  
  I guess Tilt also gets a bonus since I saw the beta more than 5 years ago, and that was well over 
 5 years after the beta was put out on the internet. Anyways, the fact that they took a concept 
 from a defunct title and turned it into a playable game kept me entertained, and that is worth 
 something to me.
  
  OVERALL
  
  Overall, This is a great DS title, if not ranking among the best. Its lack of defining levels is 
 its only major fault. Just be sure to invert the stylus controls before you start playing, trust 
 me, you will be doing yourself a favor. Nintendo first party game turns out good in the wake of 
 the Wii, which definitely keeps my hopes up. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: macfastnin1
Rating: 8.5
Date: Sep 1, 2006 5:14 pm PT
Review:  Starfox Command is an intense dogfight game ever created in DS. But it is not good enough. For 
 example, the sounds. It is so bad, that you can throw up. And the graphics of the plane sucked 
 too. But the best thing I liked is that it made a really good use of controlling the plane by using 
 your stylus. Another thing, shooting these aliens were really fun. Also, I want to add that the 
 game wasn't long enough, but they had great multiplayer, so I raised the value to 8. Overall, Starfox 
 is a great game and coud've been 10 x better if they spent another 3 months of it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Cpt_Apollo
Rating: 9.9
Date: Sep 1, 2006 12:46 pm PT
Review:  Gameplay - Star Fox plays surprisingly very well. I still can't get over it. When I heard about 
 the all stylus controls, I was very worried. I totally wrote this game off as gimmicky, touch screen 
 thing that will fail, but I was wrong. The touch screen actually makes flying easier and a lot 
 of fun. The basic gameplay is broken up in to two parts, an overworld strategy map and full 3D 
 battle maps.
  
  In the overworld screens, your objective is to destroy enemy fighters and bases, while protecting 
 your mothership. It is fun to draw out your ship's courses and then preform the attack on the opposing 
 force. During the actual fights, the stylus is your control tapping the screen to boost, break, 
 turns, drop bombs and perform the famous barrel roll. Then only other button needed is the fire 
 button which is mapped on everything besides start and select, so it is easy to find something 
 comfortable. The control is very tight and it is amazing that this game just handles so very well. 
 Also it is very easy to learn. Once you do the 4 training missions, you will pick up on the controls 
 in no time.
  
  The multiplayer works the same way both local and over the Nintendo Wifi Connection and is very 
 strong. In all multiplayer modes, players are only allowed to be Fox and are given just one ship. 
 Some might think of this as bad, but I really like it because it balances out the game so much. 
 I liked the wifi play because of an easy to use ranking system with 26 ranks, (Z being the lowest 
 and A the highest) and good punishment against disconnecters. It is good to see that if someone 
 drops, no one plays, which really prevents people from skipping out.
  
  Graphics - Best on the DS to date, period. The ships look great and the different stages have such 
 high quality textures. I love it.
  
  Sound - I have said it before, I love animalese from Animal Crossing and I love it here in Star 
 Fox: Command. The blaster shots and space noises are fine, but nothing beats the animal nonsense. 
 It will make you smile. Plus it is a really cool option that you can import your own voice as the 
 character's voice and tone.
  
  Value - I believe that value is a key factor in the DS's success. At a price of $29.99 you get 
 a great story mode that you will keep playing to find the 9 different endings, 6 six player local 
 multiplayer and awesome 4 player online dogfights.
  
  Reviewer's Tilt - Please do yourself a favor and buy this game! It is totally worth the price. 
 I hope that it sells some systems, but if you already have a DS, buy this game, you will not regret 
 it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: keeperofgames
Rating: 8.3
Date: Aug 31, 2006 11:26 pm PT
Review:  Star Fox, a series thrown by the wayside in recent years in favor of updates of other franchises 
 like Metroid Prime and The Legend of Zelda... Until now..
  
  The series has landed on the DS with a BANG!!! This is a fine addition to the Star Fox universe, 
 and it features multiple endings (but remember how Star Fox 64 had 2 endings but only 1 true one? 
 Well, only one ending in this game is the true ending, and it's difficult to get, but it's worth 
 it) .
  
  The game starts when the Anglar invade the Lylat system from Venom (They'r e a new species created 
 by Andross to survive on Venom) but Andross was destroyed before he could complete them. Evidently 
 they grew on their own and became powerful. Fox must reunite his team ( and maybe get an all-new 
 member on the team as well :) To fight the Anglar.
  
  I'm pleased to say the game handles well with the stylus, though it takes a few practice runs to 
 get good at it. But the thing that sets this title apart from the rest in the franchise is the 
 tactical map. This adds a lot of depth to the gameplay that makes going in guns blazing not the 
 wisest strategy. Each character has his or her own fighter and each has special abilities and attributes.
 
  
  The storyline is good, and characters are good, but their are some short comings as well. First 
 off you can only fly, which is kinda sad because I love the Landmaster. Also, there's no voice 
 acting. This wouldn't bother me if they didn't sound like they did back on the SNES, which is annoying. 
 I mean every game in the franchise has had voice acting but this one and the first, come on!
  
  Gladly I can say the multiplayer is awesome. Though it is somewhat lacking due to the fact 
 that all you can do is pilot fighters, it is still fun to blast someone out of the sky who's on 
 the other side of the world :)
  
  Here's hoping that Star Fox Wii will be the best in the series (I just hope Fox and Krystal tie 
 the knot, that'd be cool) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ash-taldon
Rating: 8.2
Date: Aug 31, 2006 11:45 pm PT
Review:  Star Fox Command is decent, but could defiantly be allot better than what it turned out t be. The 
 controls for the game take a a little bit to get used to, but after a few rounds you get the hang 
 of it and becomes second nature. Although I wish Nintendo had put another control scheme in there 
 to use the D-Pad instead of the touch screen. The only thing thats I've noticed to annoying control 
 wise is barrel rolling, having to scribble back and forth on the touch screen to barrel roll gets 
 a bit irritating after a while but is useable and after playing for a bit you get used to it. Overall 
 the stylus / touch-screen controls are done well, seeing as the touch screen defiantly gives you 
 easier movement of the arwings than the tight D-Pad would. The game-play itself reminded me instantly 
 of the unreleased Star Fox 2 for the SNES. Having the little tactical map with enemies and missiles 
 that appear for you to destroy as part of the game play was a very interesting twist and I'm glad 
 to see that this feature made its way into a actual Star Fox release, as well as getting allot 
 more detailed than it originally was. The generated battles are defiantly fun at first, but get 
 repudiative after the first 2 chapters, this feature is also reminiscent of Star Fox 2 but defiantly 
 changed up allot more. As for the boss battles, they give you the same as you would expect of a 
 Star Fox title as any other in the way the game is played and how the levels are set up, and while 
 the battles are decent and allot more interesting [and a welcome change of things level wise] the 
 levels still feel really small for the battles and as with the rest of the game, over way too quick 
 and easily.
  
  The story line in Star fox Command.... could be better. While it IS nice to have some kind of story-line 
 thats there, and tries it's damnedest to be detailed/enthralling, Nintendo just didn't quite make 
 it on that part. Ranging from bad scripting to just plain uninteresting rambling between characters 
 at times makes you feel as though you're playing a soap opera. After beating the game for the first 
 time and receiving the "Key of Destiny" to unlock the different story arcs that lead to the different 
 endings gives the game a bit more replay, but still has more uninteresting character babble and 
 a few endings that are all well and good for StarFox, and some that just seem to be placed there 
 for no other reason than to "just be there."
  
  The sound for the game is decent for a DS game, but again; could have been better. It's nice to 
 hear the old Star Fox tunes again, but the music sounds almost muted for some reason [then again 
 it may just be my DS] it's also nice to see that every character got their own "theme song" and 
 plays when you choose to bring that character into play. The babbling noise that the characters 
 make when they talk [although entertaining and neat to see another old Star Fox reference] eventually 
 get annoying, and after trying to put my own voice into the game I decided to go right back to 
 the original voices. So while it was interesting feature to put into the options, it doesn't make 
 a difference if it was there or not.
  
  The Graphics are well done and are again reminiscent of past Star Fox games, which in turn is good 
 to see. The ships are what are expected of Star Fox and are well designed and varied with the different 
 ships per character. The enemies are simple and a good bit of them seem to be lifted directly from 
 Star Fox 64, while a few others seem to be from Star Fox 2. The worlds are well done for the "all-range" 
 areas that they are, and have fairly well done settings, From light shinning on the water to the 
 colorful backgrounds on Titanla, to the city ares of Corneria. As for the characters themselves, 
 they seem allot more cartoony than in the previous installments, but are nicely done. The cut scenes 
 are nicely done as well, being both vivid and done in a neat manga-esc style, which is a nice change 
 for the series.
  
  The Multiplayer both off -line and online is refreshing and entertaining, ... to a point. While 
 the offline multiplayer is nice, with the addition of 2 more players than the online mode and the 
 ability to play off one cart is extremely nice. But it feels like the multiplayer from Star Fox 
 64, minus running around on foot and having the Land Master to choose from. The online play is 
 rather simple and chaotic in itself, being able to choose from the "Battle Royal" battles and the 
 one on one battles are nice, but all play out the same way. The dog-fight style of play that is 
 set; is rather fun and a nice change form the main story play. Consisting of just blowing each-other 
 up and then fighting for the stars that appear makes the online play feel more like a fun little 
 mini-game than anything. The player names could have been slightly transparent or had some sort 
 of light filter over them, rather than being a solid color against a opaque background. Being able 
 to play with everyone around the world is a nice touch, but can get challenging playing against 
 the Japanese players who've had the game for a few weeks prior and have dominated the hell out 
 of the online play on their side already, but will eventually even out.
  
  All in all I can say that Star Fox Command is defiantly worth the $30 bucks you shell out for it, 
 having some solid multiplayer and single player game-play, a worth while story line and overall 
 excellent sound and graphics. For Star Fox fans it's a must have, for anyone else it's defiantly 
 worth the buy being one of the few shooters on the DS. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Synaphim
Rating: 8.4
Date: Aug 31, 2006 4:30 am PT
Review:  After reading the gamespot review I was a bit reluctant to buy a game that scored a mere 7.5. But 
 since there was nothing else currently available of this genre, I decided.. what the hell, it's 
 only 30 bucks right?
  
  Initially I thought that the control setup was a bit clumsy and hard to get accustomed to. Using 
 the stylus to direct the ship seemed like it would cramp your hand after a bit, which it did at 
 first. Eventually I learned to relax and it eventually became second nature to maintain precise 
 movements without my hand turning into a CLAW. Naturally the stylus control actually gives you 
 far more control of the ship's movement opposed to using a control pad that has no sensitivity. 
 So overall, I believe it to be a fine choice.
  
  The graphics are good, though a bit simple. It does well in capturing the classic feel of Star 
 Fox. What I especially like about the graphics are the differing stages, my favorite being the 
 dune filled planet of Titania. The game does quite well in capturing the designated area's atmosphere, 
 from light shining through the water, to sand blowing in the wind. Ship design is what you would 
 expect from Star Fox, and what's best about this is that there are several ships to choose from, 
 each one representing the piloting character in some way. Enemy designs are perhaps the most lacking 
 in polygons, though that doesn't matter much because they won't be there for long before you blast 
 them into oblivion.
  
  Level design is of course fairly lacking as this is the first Star Fox to not be based on a linear 
 track. You feel a little sad sometimes that you can't just blast away through a set level for old 
 times sake, but again you learn to get accustomed to such things. The positive side to this is 
 that things can be rather random so you'll never know what's coming, though this doesn't exactly 
 make things any more challenging. I personally find the whole strategic element a little annoying, 
 though I can't see how this game's structure could be executed in any other way. It's almost too 
 simple at times and seems to be more of a point of intermission between the moments of "in-your-face" 
 action. The story, though reminiscent of almost every typical "love affair" sort of drama to date, 
 is somewhat enjoyable as it offers you many choices to alter the storyline and inevitably the ending. 
 However you have to beat the game once to acquire the "key" to make any decisions beyond the preset 
 path. This makes the replay value somewhat high as you can't help but feel involved in learning 
 of the different possible circumstances you can evoke for your poor little Fox friend and who all 
 else may join your crew.
  
  The last thing I would like to mention is the musical score. Though nothing spectacular, it definetley 
 keeps the original Star Fox feeling. Every character you play has their own theme that you hear 
 whenever you take them into battle. You can also hear their designated themes whenever you select 
 the character of interest from "the gallery". Neat future I suppose, but nothing special.
  
  To sum things up, Star Fox for the NDS in my opinion is worth coughing up a measly $30. All 
 in all, with a game that has multiplayer support, an immersive storyline, and fairly good graphics, 
 you can't go wrong. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hue14
Rating: 5.8
Date: Aug 30, 2006 6:29 pm PT
Review:  henshina a go go it's that time again folks! no not viewtful joe! star fox! star fox command and 
 his array of many buddies return, this time to the DS. It's a solid shotter for a DS title and 
 really rocks the curfew and walks the talks on the total mission substance but a ring of liedbulk 
 and something more hubbish or rationallier is so rather.. compressed and controled in a way that 
 it can't. In english, this game is a topsurvy to a high savage that makes this sting to a mixed 
 reaction. I say this game rocks then when I ooze this one certain feeling, that i'm a possible long 
 haul daredeil this game is bull and doesn't even try to live up to a good, solid and complete title. 
 the mission suck but the amazing WiFi hub leaderboard and star point system make this game a rather 
 simple thing. This game sucks hard, it seems like an overall chore that i'm not up too. But for 
 the most part, WiFi is decent, graphics are stunning and if your a combat space pilot shooter or 
 star fox fan (which I am sorta) then this game will be fit for you.
  
  -Hue. Out. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SuperLinkX
Rating: 8
Date: Aug 30, 2006 5:22 pm PT
Review:  this game is pretty sweet i got it today and i love it! i was thinking the controls where going 
 to be hard but there actually alot like metroid prime hunters but easier because all there is is 
 directional flying with the touch screen up down side to side and then there is shooting which 
 is like every botton and on the bottom touch screen u move ur styles left and right to do yes,............. the 
 barrel role! story so far is pretty good and wifi is great,.......... and if the questions: are 
 there symbols on your ship like in mario kart and animal crossing and :can u get out of ur ship 
 both are a no but this game is still a great shooter for the starfox series! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: REVOLUTIONfreak
Rating: 8.2
Date: Nov 9, 2006 6:46 am PT
Review:  Gameplay: Anyone familiar with the Starfox formula will recognize this. However, Command has taken 
 a Advance Wars meets Starfox type of route. When you start your single player game, you will see 
 of course Fox talking to ROB in the jibberish language, and you will see a recap of some previous 
 events as well. The story itself sticks to the usual Starfox storyline, some evil force comes to 
 the galaxy (Anglar in this case) , and wants to rule the galaxy. Through the game, you will draw 
 your flight plan on a map, but each flight needs to be done strategically. In the game there are 
 motherships for your enemy, and the Great Fox for your side. Basically, you need to destroy all 
 of the enemies motherships and units, while protecting the Great Fox from missiles, enemies, etc. 
 While this doesnt really seem right for a Starfox game, they did at least blend it in well. While 
 planning through these maps you will have to face 1 of 3 challenges, shooting down a missile, destroying 
 enemies, or destroying a mother ship. Each of them aren't particularly hard, but certain points 
 you will surely find to be very challenging, even thoguh a few of the missions can become repetitive. 
 Even though most reviews say its easy, this game does bring a decent challenge.
  
  Now to get to the controls. Those of you doubting the stylus controls, doubt no more! It does have 
 a learning curve, but the stylus control gives you more control over your ship than ever before! 
 You will find yourself shooting more accurately, and you will see that its pretty to see how sensitive 
 the screen is! In comparison, the controls are much liek Metroid Prime Hunters, only in a third 
 person space shooter point of view.
  
  As far as multiplayer goes, it is pretty basic. If you want to conenct via the WFC, you can do 
 either Battle Royale or Free Battle. One thing I do like about this setup, is that if you do a 
 free battle and you lose, it wont count against your record. However that goes both ways as well.... 
 Another addition to the wifi I found to be interesting and more convenient is that you can pick 
 how many players you want to face off with, where as in games like Hunters you constantly would 
 setup a random match, but it would only end up giving you one other player to face. The in game 
 multiplayer itself is what youd expect, and it is actually pretty good even thoguh it is basic 
 and lacking customization. The developers added a little bit of a twist for multiplayer as well. 
 When you destroy an opponent, you dont actually get a point until you take the star they leave 
 behind. This star can be stolen by anyone in the match, so it really makes htigns more interesting. 
 The records also will keep track of how many stars total youve collected in the game overall. Multiplayer 
 could be much better, but it could be much worse as well.
  
  Graphics: Easily, I would say this is one of if not the best looking game on the DS. Some of the 
 effects could be better, and the enemies aren't as sharp looking as the N64 Starfox's enemies, 
 but still for a handheld DS game Command holds up very well! Ships look great, and lots of environmental 
 details.
  
  Sound: It's classic Starfox music as far as sound goes. Honestly, I am a little disappointed wiht 
 the sounds and music in the game. Not enough of it felt Starfox-ish. Not to say there weren't moments 
 where it did, but it just kidn of took me by surprise that tehre weren't many exciting soudns as 
 in previous games. However, the sound does suit its purpose and is still good nonetheless.
  
  Value: The storymode is 5 hours long, and there are 9 different endings to the game. Add some 
 multiplayer to that and youve got a great game for replay value! This game easily ranks up with 
 the best DS games as far as replay value goes.
  
  All in all, Starfox Command is probably the best Starfox weve seen since Starfox 64. There are 
 some flaws, but most of them wont stand in the way of you enjoying the game to the fullest. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Dufexer
Rating: 8.6
Date: Aug 30, 2006 2:36 pm PT
Review:  While the game sways from the orignal star fox game, its still fun and has great replay value. 
 While I would prefer the original dogfight only starfox, I think the new strategy system has some 
 things going for it.. The wireless and wifi play birng back the original starfox we loved, while 
 letting you play your friends and strangers across the world. The game is definitely worth buying. 
 It isn't strait up flying like the N64 and Super NES versions, but it still has it's merits and 
 is followin Nintendos new fase about thinking while your playing. The game is pretty easy but has 
 some more challanging parts as you go. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nonamemax
Rating: 8
Date: Aug 30, 2006 9:33 am PT
Review:  Actually when i started to play i was like ''wow, not very good'' but practicing and trying to 
 like this game made me change my mind, I really like it!!! Like most of the 64 come back, it really 
 shows that gaming evolves. Fox get back with all of its friend to dominate the bad boy again, which 
 i wont tell the name, whit new gameplay, strategy and also skills. The it of the game I think is 
 controling the dogfighter and in the same time shooting, puting bombs on the map and also rolling 
 to counter enemies attacks. Its a mix of strategy, action and adventure, a game which most of all 
 players would find themselves in it, i recommend it and go buy it or rent it!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MrBubbles101
Rating: 7
Date: Aug 30, 2006 8:39 am PT
Review:  Dont get all excited but this game has a few flaws but a new way to control a arwing. The game 
 wasent what I expected but it did show a new way to play Starfox. If you ask me if you should get 
 it first try it out if a friend already owns it so you can get a good taste if you want it. The 
 game has a decent mutilplayer for online playing. If you have nothing to play this game will hold 
 you over until you get something new to play. Just buy it if you want it if you dont dont worry 
 about it the game coulde use some imporvements. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ValKilmerStyle
Rating: 8.4
Date: Sep 2, 2006 9:25 am PT
Review:  Being a huge fan of the first two Star Fox games I have been patiently waiting for a proper follow-up 
 to Star Fox 64 for quite some time. It may have taken awhile, but I feel my day has finally come. 
 Star Fox Command takes classic Star Fox combat and mixes in a dose of strategy that makes the series 
 seem fresh again without diluting the core gameplay.
  
  You begin the game with a recap of the Star Fox story, and learn that the Anglar Empire has decided 
 to shatter the peace that reigned in the Lylat system. It's now up to Fox to save the galaxy, but 
 the Star Fox team has long since disbanded and he finds himself alone. Adhering to his duty, Fox 
 sets out to stop the Anglars.
  
  The controls in this game are so simple they're genius. The top screen displays the action, while 
 the bottom screen has an overhead map of the area. Almost everything is accomplished via the touch 
 screen. Moving your stylus in any direction will cause your ship to move similarly, so if you want 
 to bank right just drag the stylus to the right and so forth. Any button (even the D-pad, not Start 
 or Select) will fire your guns, keeping with the 'be kind to lefties' trend on DS. To use your 
 boost double tap the top half of the screen and to brake double tap the bottom half. U-turns and 
 flips are performed by tapping onscreen icons, and a barrel roll is done by drawing a small circle. 
 A bomb is used by dragging an icon onto the section of the map you want to annihilate. It takes 
 a little practice, but this scheme becomes more comfortable and precise than the joystick on the 
 N64. All of the controls work smoothly and actually make the game more fun to play.
  
  A tactical map is where the strategy part of the game takes place. This system works well as a 
 means of setting up the combat, since directing your ship to a squadron of enemies will initiate 
 a battle. If you instead wish to finish a mission quickly, your mothership, the Great Fox, is equipped 
 with missiles that will take out an entire squad of baddies. Should any of said baddies actually 
 reach the Great Fox, or if you run out of turns, your game will end. Eliminating all of the enemies 
 on a map will send you to the next mission and move the story forward. The whole strategy element 
 is pretty fun, although it fittingly plays second fiddle to the actual fighting.
  
  The combat is really what makes this game great. It's a complete throwback to Star Fox 64, so any 
 other dejected fans should feel right at home. During every battle you'll have to kill a set number 
 of enemies, and doing so is an absolute joy. The drawback is that the missions can get repetitive 
 and easy, but they remain fun nonetheless. Bosses in the game are huge and challenging, and there 
 are many of them just itching for a fight. Each character also has his or her own ship, and each 
 ship has unique capabilities. These range from different lasers and shields to longer boosts and 
 the ability to sustain multiple locks. Playing with all the different pilots is a lot of fun, so 
 luckily there are sixteen of them to be unlocked.
  
  One play through the game will last about as long as it did in Star Fox or Star Fox 64. That is 
 to say the story mode is quite short. However, your first time through you will have access to 
 less than half of the available pilots and arenas contained within the cart. Playing through again 
 will open up options that weren't there before, so the replay value in the single player mode is 
 high, even though it will only take 2-4 hours to complete. There's also a stage select mode from 
 which you can access any stage you've already cleared. With over 30 stages to play this is very 
 helpful if you don't want to go through the story mode.
  
  Multiplayer in Star Fox Command is another throwback to the much pined for days of N64. Up to 6 
 people can compete in download play with a single cart, or you can take the fight online in a four 
 player deathmatch. Unfortunately you can't use any of the ships in the single player here, but 
 the battles are still as intense as you remember them.
  
  The graphics in this game are beautiful and rank among the best on the DS. Pop-up can be an issue 
 on many of the maps, but this happens so far out of your range that it doesn't affect gameplay 
 much. Environments are diverse and correspond with the topography of the tactical map. The ships 
 and characters look crisp and polished. The music is also top-notch, although it falls slightly 
 short of the anthems from the original. Dialogue is kept to the inane blabber made infamous by 
 the SNES classic; it remains fitting and lovable here.
  
  All told, Star Fox Command actually succeeds at what Nintendo has been trying at for nearly ten 
 years: a Star Fox game that separates itself from the others while staying true to the beloved 
 Star Fox formula. The strategy in the game is fun, yet is kept limited enough to keep focus on 
 the combat. Multiplayer is a great addition, as is the storyline, which will keep you playing until 
 you unlock all of the game's nine endings. Anyone frustrated with the shortcomings of recent Star 
 Fox titles, or anyone just looking for a great game, would do well to pick this one up. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DrAgOnZeYeZ3
Rating: 3.3
Date: Aug 29, 2006 9:23 pm PT
Review:  the graphics are great. the old jibber jabber talk being back is nice. there are only 2 reasons 
 why this game is soo horrible. first, the turn play crap. i bought played this game expecting fast 
 paced action, not some final fantasy crap. secondly, the controls are awful! why oh whay am i forced 
 to use a stylus to control my arwing? sure having the touch screen to control with is a nice option, 
 but we should not be forced to use it!! using the touch screen to control is absolutely tedious, 
 it is like getting teeth pulled. i could have gotten used to the turn based crap, but not using 
 a stylus to fly with. this game is pitiful, do not buy it or even rent it. don't waist your time 
 with this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: petersen98374
Rating: 7.5
Date: Oct 13, 2007 10:43 am PT
Review:  There is one thing that all Nintendo DS games must have to really get my attention. It is GOOD 
 use of the touch screen. Not just something that was tacked on for the sake of having a touch screen. 
 I want a game that was designed from the start to take advantage of the touch screen. WI-FI over 
 the internet is also a BIG plus in my book. It instantly gives you an unlimited amount of replay 
 value.
  Star Fox Command has both. It is a fun and challenging game that you can easily jump into and play 
 with friends or anyone else over the WI-FI internet. THIS is what a DS game should be.
  Ill be the first to admit that I am having a hard time trying to control my ship and shoot at 
 the same time. I must be the only one, because the people Ive played have no problem shooting 
 the stuff out of me. I like to play games, but Im not very good at a lot of them. Im sure you 
 read the main review already, but I just wanted to let you know that this game is another great 
 game for the DS and you will be glad you bought it.
  
  EDIT: I LOVE using the stylus for MOST games. This is not one of them. I wish they would have included 
 a control pad option also. I am having a awful time trying to control my ship. Not much fun in 
 my opinion. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: superarmcannon
Rating: 8.6
Date: Aug 29, 2006 6:14 pm PT
Review:  It completely rules! If you were ever disappointed with Assault, this one will make up for that. 
 Even though it was made not by Rare but by Namco, they did a wonderful job on this one and the 
 online is something you cant not give a whirl. You may or may not agree with me, but, Starfox Assault 
 was a big disappointment (but still lots of fun) . It was hurried too much, but Namco does a much 
 better job the second time around with Starfox Command, The stylus takes a little while to get 
 used to for all your combat and having missions which are timed its a bit questionable, but all-in-all 
 its a must-have for your DS. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: A7Xfan
Rating: 8.8
Date: Aug 30, 2006 10:11 am PT
Review:  That's a pretty good description for single player. You have a ship, bad guys try to attack it. 
 To protect it you must not only fight them off but manage your time taken with each battle, be 
 effecient (health-wise) , and make sure you collect power-ups on the map in addition to making conteact 
 with the bad guys.
  Power-ups will protect your ship on the strategy map (as opposed to the actual shooting sections, 
 give you more time to fight the actual battles, etc..
  
  Not to worry if you in it just for the old school dogfights because that's still the great majority 
 of the game only now there's a little extra strategy involved and it's a pretty cool and fun idea.
 
  
  So on to the games muscle, the actual fights. They're great.
  You've got your regular laser which you just push any button (or the D-Pad) to shoot, your Lock-on 
 Laser which ofcourse means you just hold whatever shoot button your pressing and keep your aim 
 on the enemy, bombs, aerial dogding manuevers, and the ability to speed up or slow down.
  Those last 3 along with the steering itself are all touch screen controlled. It feels just about 
 right, very comfortable after a few missions.
  The Speed boosting and slowing down are a little tricky to use, but you can get used to it. As 
 far as controls concerned that's the only problem.
  
  Single-player missions are largely you flying around looking to destroy certain enemies but ofcourse 
 there are other perhaps more fun missions too, like flying through loops, boss fights, those kind 
 of variants. While this may not make every mission as memorable as older games it just works really 
 well to make a good, fun game.
  To add a bit of longevity too the missions are graded to a certain degree. You can get a perfect 
 score and simply pass by doing what's required. If you choose to try and get a perfect score though 
 make sure you find alot of time and health power-ups while flying around because you won't perfectly 
 finish one fight in the given time let alone two or more. If you run out of time of get shot down 
 that character on your team loses the battle, a ship of which you've got a limited number of ships 
 to finish a mission, and that players turn becomes a waste. (and you only have a limited number 
 of turns, however beating certain fights will give you more turns)
  
  So if this all sounds confunsing the simple way to think of it is like this:
  Strategy part- 
 Protect your base and blow-up all the bad guys.
  1) You have a certain number of ships your in control of. (Fox, slippy, etc.)
  2) You move these 
 ships around a map and try to take out enemies and bases.
  3) You only have a limited space you can travel in one turn so you'll want to collect as many power-ups 
 as you can while also getting into a fight.
  4) The one variable for these maps is fog of war. You get a couple swipes to blow away the fog 
 over certain areas per turn. (tip: swipe the stylus across the screen and maybe you'll see part 
 of a couple enemies.)
  5) Dogfights- Once you run into an enemy or base on the map you go back to the Star Fox roots of 
 shooting in planes OR a boss fight may automatically come up after you beat a mission.
  
  
  Important note: There's NO BOTS. I'd highly reccomend finding a way to play online though.
 
  Multi-player is excellent here too. One of the DS best showings or perhaps the best. I own Metroid 
 so it's not like I'm forgetting that, but here's the deal. It's all about skill, everyone flies 
 the same type of ship but in a different color. There are a few power-ups around, and you just 
 gotta fight. The most accurate and all around best player will win. Maps are all selected at random. 
 (Which again makes it a good showcase for skill) The only thing that keeps this from being a straight 
 death match is that after you kill someone they drop a star and in order to get points for that 
 kill you need to collect that star before someone else gets it. You might think someone could just 
 fly around waiting for people to die so they can collect their star but it doesn't work that way. 
 That person would get shot down very quickly.
  
  That alone would make it alot of fun but it gets much deeper. Like all these games you can play 
 a friend, but this one has a really deep leveling system. You start out as a level "Z" player and 
 try to work your way to level "A" which obviously isn't a small feat. (26 levels) It keeps track 
 of all the stars you've collected and takes your wins and dropped games into account too.
  You can simply find 3 other players world wide or you can do something a little more interesting 
 and a little deeper then any DS online game has done yet. You can choose to battle 1,2, or 3 other 
 players of similar rank. Some people, like me, may like the option to battle just one or two other 
 players instead of doing a full 4 player game.
  
  The only notable extras are that this supports rumble pack, download play for up to 6 players, 
 and the ability to make the characters gibberish be replaced with your own random voice clips. 
 (they ask you a series of questions you answer through the microphone and they take random samples 
 of those answers to make the gibberish.)
  
  Also worth nothing is that this game isn't too easy as reviews may point out, the strategy element 
 comes into play to make it slightly challenging at times. Then take it online for the biggest challenge.
 
  
  With a fair length single player and full featured multiplayer, great graphics, good sound, (though 
 it can get fairly grating and annoying) a good story (I didn't get into these for the sake of being 
 brief.) , and with the actual gameplay being rock solid there's not alot to complain about.
  
  The missions could have been slightly more interesting, the speed moves could have been a bit 
 easier to navigate, and sound could have been better overall. This really is another excellent 
 addition to the DS and I promise you won't be disappointed. It's just a fun game, that's well rounded. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: soul_motor
Rating: 7
Date: Aug 29, 2006 5:22 pm PT
Review:  I was so excited when I heard StarFox was coming to my DS. Heck, I was very giddy, that's why I 
 checked it out from work today. However the excitement faded very quickly. The single-player mission 
 definitely looked pretty and sounded alright, but the play was wrong. I didn't have any problem 
 with the actual flying of the Arwing, that was actually fairly intuitive and a fun change of pace. 
 It took a little bit to get used to using the touch screen as a control panel as the buttons only 
 fired the laser. Had this been a straight forward flight game, I would've been in a gaming nirvana. 
 However the strategy part of the game was annoying. I kinda liked the making the flight path, it 
 was different, and different is good on a different type of platform like the DS. To make matters 
 worse, the story line seemed pretty forced. Apparently the StarFox team is no more and all the 
 pilots have their own rides pimped out to their preferences. I did not like the turn based system 
 as you were limited to killing everything in say 4 or 5 moves. What made it even more insane was 
 the introduction of the fog of war a la Advance Wars on the third level of the game. The enemies 
 were pretty well hidden and hunting for them in 4 moves was not fun. I attempted to do this 4 times 
 to no avail. If you persevere, you might enjoy the game a little bit more than I did as it certainly 
 showed a load of potential. I was just put off by this and did not feel a need to continue. This 
 game does have WiFi which might be it's only saving grace, but I do not have time to test it out, 
 so I really can't grade it. I would imagine it's like the Metroid multi-player in that it's better 
 than the single player mode, but you will need to check out someone else's review to find out. 
 In conclusion, if you're looking for that spark of fun you had with the SNES or N64 versions of 
 StarFox, look elsewhere. If you want something different, this may be the game for you, but wait 
 to buy it used or rent it first. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jonathan_rector
Rating: 7.5
Date: Aug 29, 2006 4:08 pm PT
Review:  Okay, so here we go!!
  
  Gameplay: 7
  Graphics: 9
  Sound: 8
  Value: 8
  Tilt: 7
  AVERAGE: 7.8
  
  Closing Comments:
  Ok, when I booted the game up, everything was nice. I 
 wish the menu screens had a little more "fliar" to them. Mario Bros and Metroid's menu's looked 
 great. Star Fox's looked a little lacking. The graphics in game were great, and the multiplayer 
 online was good. There is one level in particular that looks awesome. It was an ocean with the 
 sun setting. Wonderful stuff.
  
  However, the online was a little "meh." I did try only round and got second place out of four people. 
 It's just that I'm sure it will take more time to get accustomed to controlling the game. Metroid 
 is still number one to me online.
  
  The game itself is interesting. The original's had a continual level, and this one doesn't feel 
 as "action-y" as it should. It's broken up by "fight-and-go" battles.
  
  The story is great and dark! Juicy! Can't wait to play more!
  
  All in all, a fun game. Will 
 it replace my online fun with Metroid? Problably not. Will I play this game in the future? You 
 betcha! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cap_z
Rating: 8.2
Date: Aug 29, 2006 3:38 pm PT
Review:  this game hits my ds spot it has a lot good graphics to it and it is my first ds game and it; s 
 cool the strategy/ combat shooting games makes it even more fun i don't like strategy games it 
 so boring but this one is tight and u can act it out to the parts and combats are great the only 
 challenge is the missile chasing levels i hate that not in a bad way but it's kinda irritable. well 
 star fox command great and i hope to play the wi-fi soon plus the voice recording feature is kinda 
 funny. THE BOSS battle are just like the old star fox but less of a challenge. it is great to pick 
 and choose people some can cover u also the touch screen  glorious 
 it feels like the analog but weird it a good idea i was kinda ify on it but it's not hard it kinda 
 easy well if u got a ds get this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: peeweeshift
Rating: 8.3
Date: Aug 29, 2006 11:50 am PT
Review:  The multiplayer is where this game is at. and its one copy useable: D so i can play with a friend 
 without 2 copies. graphcis are not as good as old one but frame rate is higher than old one (i'm 
 talking of n64 fox) This game is a great showcase game for the ds. I missed falco from adventures 
 glad he's back to. The story mode is ok also, kinda slow paced. And the strategy is kinda well 
 placed into the game. The sound effects are nice but not great. The game isn't for everyone as 
 i mylsef am a star fox fan. Slippy is here also so you have to buy the game!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: turtle360
Rating: 8.9
Date: Aug 28, 2006 9:52 pm PT
Review:  I didn't expect this game to be this good because the ds doesn't have a joystick, but instead a 
 d-pad. And i was wrong. Using the touch screen is actually pretty comfortable, and somewhat makes 
 it feel realistic. It didn't even take me that long to get use to the controls. The graphics in 
 this star fox game are indeed nice, but i think they still could made it a little better by adding 
 more enemies on ground and making junglely levels like in the other star fox games. A couple of 
 thing i didn't like much was the is a little too easy and they emitted the way you fight against 
 bosses. But overall, this game is both awesome and addictive. So they did well on that and thats 
 what matter. Also something really cool is that you get to fight against othe competitors on wi-fi. 
 Thats so cool! Its as good as metroid prime hunters by getting to show off you're skills to others. 
 I'm very glad nintendo decided to take this game out on the ds. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: msb2009
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 28, 2006 10:13 am PT
Review:  The multiplayer is kinda the biggest aspect for this game. The graphics for this game are really 
 good. Playing multiplayer with friends is also reallly fun too. If if you love the Star Fox for 
 the N64, then your gonna love this game. The controls are nice and simple, and the missions are 
 fun. If you never played a Star Fox game, then I highly reccomend you play this game to see how 
 the series goes. I haven't realy tried the Wi-Fi part of the game, but I have a feeling that it 
 will be fun dog fights with people everywhere around the world. All I know is this- your gonna 
 get this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Maluigi
Rating: 8.2
Date: Sep 5, 2006 7:36 pm PT
Review:  Star Fox Command for the DS is a very unique game, using the touch screen for control of your ship 
 and your flight path. Unlike the previous Star Fox games, you dont continuously fly through all 
 of the levels. Instead you plot your flight path to intercept, and destroy missiles, and ships 
 using the touch screen. Its pretty fun, and, sometimes, involves some strategy and thought. Story 
 Mode is pretty fun, and has some lasting value, because after you beat the game once, you have 
 a choice in some parts of the game to choose different dialogue, to meet a couple of new characters, 
 see some new ships and unlock new endings. Anyway, the story starts off with the Star Fox team 
 disbanding, because of Androsss defeat, but then, a new evil arises, a fish type alien named Anglar. 
 Fox has a decision to make: should he take on this new threat single handedly, or should he seek 
 out his fellow pilots to help him. Story Mode takes you through a lot of different missions, with 
 one primary goal, protecting the Great Fox (Flag Ship) , and trying to gun down the other teams 
 mothership (s) , and/or some missiles and enemy ships heading toward the Great Fox. You have a number 
 of turns to do this. Each turn, you draw your flight plan on the touch screen, to try to win, and 
 defeat the enemy. If you run out of turns, you lose. On some missions, there is fog in parts of 
 the area. You start off each of your turns rubbing out some of the fog to reveal targets and ships. 
 The game really tried to make it hard by making many possibilities for you to lose, such as, like 
 I said, running out of turns, the Great Fox getting shot down, getting your ship gunned down, or 
 even running out of time or fuel. There is also a Missile Chase Minigame (Another way for you to 
 lose!) . In this little minigame, you have to go through a series of checkpoints to get close enough 
 to shoot down a missile. If you miss a checkpoint, the missile gets away, resulting in a failed 
 mission. This can be frustrating at times, but at least it makes the game a bit harder. Sometimes 
 you even get a second chance at gunning the missile down. Although its fairly simplistic, multiplayer 
 is quite fun at times. All you do is gun down other peoples ships and collect the stars that appear 
 in the spot where they were destroyed. Of course, if someone is destroyed, they respawn immediately. 
 The object is to collect as many stars as you possibly can, and the one with the most stars, before 
 the time runs out, wins. It can be pretty fun sometimes, and you can play multiplayer with just 
 one copy of the game. So If youre ever bored, and you have a couple of friends over with DSs, 
 and you want to blow stuff up, play a little Star Fox Multiplayer. The graphics in this game look 
 great. The ships, and environments are stunning, and make the gaming experience feel fresh, and 
 exciting. The character models, and artwork look pretty cool too. The sound and music are pretty 
 cool. There is no real speech from the characters, but they do talk gibberish... which can get 
 kind of annoying when ROB is talking, but youll get over it. Theres an option where you can say 
 a few things into the mic., and then Fox, instead of talking gibberish, will say the things that 
 you said. Its kinda funny sometimes. Overall, the game is pretty great, and its also a fun, new 
 addition to the Star Fox series. Thank you for taking time to read this review. I really appreciate 
 it. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
