-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Star Wars: Lethal Alliance
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/ds/action/starwarslethalalliance/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 Varied mix of action and puzzles.
 Attractive, smooth graphics engine with a surprising amount of detail.
 Droid-only action sequences control effortlessly.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 Targeting system is frustrating and doesn't always function properly.
 Action is on the easy side.
 Multiplayer modes are uninteresting.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Dec 20, 2006
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 7.2
Critic Score: 6.5, 14 Review (s)
User Score: 7.1, 193 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Ubisoft
Developer: Ubisoft Casablanca
Genre: Sci-Fi Action Adventure
Date: Dec 14, 2006
ESRB: Everyone 10+

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
It takes a while to shift into high gear, but once it does, Star Wars: Lethal Alliance offers an 
 enjoyable mix of shooting, puzzle-solving, and platforming. 

  Star Wars games have run the gamut from terrible to superb, so it's always a crapshoot when a new 
 one is released. Lethal Alliance on the Nintendo DS is a solid addition to the family. It's not 
 a difficult game, nor does it share the same acrobatic feel of its PlayStation Portable counterpart. 
 However, it makes up for the loss of the PSP version's cinematic flair with some special features 
 of its own. Yet it also shares some of the same problems, like the unresponsive targeting system 
 and generic level design. But even with some obvious flaws, Lethal Alliance is an enjoyable game 
 with enough variety to please Star Wars fans looking for a shooter on the go.  

          The puzzles aren't hard, but they're varied and mix up the action.     

  Lethal Alliance 
 takes place between Episodes III and IV and features a number of cameos from well-known Star Wars 
 characters. The main character, the twi'Lek Rianna Saren is original to the game, and she's no 
 Jedi. Rather, she's more of a Han Solo than a Luke Skywalker, helping out the Rebellion as a mercenary. 
 The story isn't much to speak of, so don't expect to discover any surprising revelations or shocking 
 insights into the Star Wars universe. Lethal Alliance is character driven, exploring an odd partnership 
 between Rianna and Zeeo, her droid companion. Their collaboration is the cornerstone of the gameplay, 
 and it's interesting enough to carry the uninspired narrative.  

  Without the partnership, Lethal Alliance would have been just another adequate third-person shooter. 
 But with Zeeo hovering alongside, you get to pull off some nice collaborative moves. Many of them 
 take place within the action proper. You can grab hold of Zeeo and he'll zoom you toward an enemy 
 for a dual kill, or jump onto him to perform a shockwave attack. The abilities aren't as satisfying 
 as they were on the PSP, since they lack the other version's cinematic elements, like bullet time 
 zooms and close-up kills. Still, they are varied enough to stay consistently interesting during 
 the six-hour campaign. Other moves are outside of the gunfights. Zeeo will pull Rianna up certain 
 walls or across ceilings, and he can maneuver into tighter areas like air ducts. These solo Zeeo 
 moments are among the game's best, because in them you use the touch screen for free-look and the 
 D pad for movement. That control scheme feels more at home on the DS than Rianna's controls, which 
 use only the face buttons.  

  The game also throws in a decent variety of puzzles. None of them are challenging, but at least 
 they utilize the platform's unique capabilities better than the majority of the action. Whenever 
 Zeeo slices into a computer system, you're normally faced with some sort of puzzle that goes along 
 with it. In one, you rotate and flip a cube until the pattern on one of its sides matches that 
 on the block beneath it. In another, you connect rays from the bottom and sides of the screen to 
 hold a security drone in place. The puzzles are all timed, but finishing before the timer expires 
 is rarely a matter of life or death.  

  The shooting portions are pretty standard, and Rianna equips blasters, a sniper rifle, and other 
 ranged weapons. Switching among them is just a matter of choosing the one you want on the touch 
 screen, and in a nice touch, you'll automatically equip your slashing weapon whenever you are close 
 to an enemy. Since Rianna isn't a Jedi, you'll never get to play with a lightsaber, but the Thorn 
 of Ryloth used in melee is a fine substitute. It's too bad that the ranged action is hobbled by 
 Lethal Alliance's primary drawback: its targeting system. Whenever you fire a weapon, you automatically 
 lock on to an enemy, and you use the shoulder buttons to cycle through other enemies onscreen. 
 But the targeting is aggressive, making occasionally unwise decisions on your behalf. Sometimes, 
 it simply doesn't function properly and you can't cycle to the enemy that you want. Other times, 
 you can't lock on because your foe is apparently too far away, even when he's obviously within 
 firing range. It's not as frustrating on the DS as it is on the PSP, but the concession appears 
 to be in the difficulty of the action as opposed to a refinement of the mechanics. Enemies go down 
 easily, so tapping the B button and performing the occasional cooperative attack will get you through 
 every encounter without much of a challenge.  

  Lethal Alliance's levels are familiar and linear, but they're more interesting here than on the 
 PSP because Ubisoft wisely understood that the shooting wasn't Lethal Alliance's strong suit. Any 
 given section will have you climbing up and down walls, avoiding beams, balancing on precarious 
 walkways, and sending Zeeo off to do his thing. It feels disjointed in the earlier levels, but 
 once the majority of the mechanics are introduced, the game's pace tightens and the variety of 
 gameplay ingredients start to mesh. Much like 2002's Jedi Outcast didn't take off until the lightsaber 
 was introduced, Lethal Alliance gets into its groove about halfway through. There's a certain slickness 
 to the game when it's running on high gear and you move from fighting to tumbling to puzzle-solving 
 to zooming across the ceiling. The environments are visually varied even within the standard warehouse 
 and spaceport levels, and it helps keep the monotony to a minimum.  

  The game includes a few rudimentary multiplayer modes for up to four players. They're certainly 
 better than the lame deathmatch variant on the PSP, but none of them are all that fun and don't 
 add much to the experience. In all three you control Zeeo, which is appealing thanks to the stylus-controlled 
 free-look. However, none of them are all that interesting. Survival is simple deathmatch; Power 
 Converter involves solving puzzles to repair a destroyed panel; and Virus Outbreak is like a handheld 
 version of Hot Potato, where you rid yourself of a virus and infect others in order to survive. 
 It's all throwaway stuff, as is the unlockable mode, which offers stand-alone re-creations of the 
 on-rails segments from the single-player campaign. The modes function just fine and offer some 
 quick entertainment, but they don't do much to extend the game's shelf life.  

          In motion, the visual splendor of Rianna's sexy lekku becomes evident.     

  Lethal 
 Alliance looks great on the DS. The engine is silky-smooth and renders a surprising number of details. 
 You might look out the window to see ships zipping past, or look across a large open area to see 
 a network of walkways and machinery. The only issue is a certain amount of graininess, which makes 
 it hard to see exactly what you're shooting at. Crisper visuals would have at very least added 
 to the player's immersion, but the game generally takes good advantage of the DS's capabilities. 
 The sound too is solid, with the quality soundtrack and sound effects you would expect from a Star 
 Wars game. There is no real voice acting in the game -- just the yelps from stormtroopers and an 
 occasional grunt from Rianna. But all in all, the game's presentation is a fine representation 
 of the license it's based on.  

  Star Wars: Lethal Alliance is a good shooter that could have been even better had its core elements 
 been tightened up and the platform's unique abilities taken better advantage of. But even with 
 its obvious flaws, it's a multifaceted and enjoyable game that's worth a look for anyone in the 
 market for a portable shooter.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (13 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: tank2tank
Rating: 5
Date: Apr 3, 2008 12:01 pm PT
Review:  Star Wars Lethal Alliance is an incredibly average third person action adventure for the DS. It's 
 not downright bad, but I couldn't find anything about it that made it worthwhile.
  
  The biggest problem with this game is that the gameplay simply isnt very fun. There's no manual 
 aiming at all- when some enemies appear, you automatically lock on and basically just have to hammer 
 B. The game tries to add some variety to combat by having Zeeo (your droid buddy) help you do some 
 attacks, but it really doesn't add much. The platforming element is very basic as well- you can't 
 even jump, and most of the time you'll just be sliding across railings using Zeeo. It's OK, but 
 incredibly repetitive after a while.
  
  It's clear that this game was rushed as I found a huge number of glitches whilst playing. I fell 
 through walls to my death, the music sometimes disappeared after continuing from game over, some 
 of the minigames randomly 'broke' (don't ask) and on the final boss, after dying a couple of times, 
 I couldn't pick up any ammo! I could just walk through the ammo instead of collecting it, and could 
 only fix it by resetting the system. Its not good...
  
  Graphically the game looks good at times, but mostly just up to early PS1 standards, so it could 
 definitely be better. The Star Wars soundtrack is in as expected, but its horribly compressed and 
 gets very repetitive- for example the same fanfare is played after killing every group of enemies.
 
  
  There are some touch screen minigames that break up the action, and these are actually fairly good, 
 it's just that you'll grow to hate them after playing each one about 20 times (which you will do 
 over the course of the game) The instructions for each one are very brief as well, and I'd bet 
 lots of people will be frustrated just trying to work out what you need to do in these parts.
 
  
  You might have heard that there are some FPS parts to the game. Well, the FPS bits are... awful. 
 Theres basically no fighting involved in them, you spend pretty much the whole time exploring air 
 vents, shooting metal grates. Which begs the question... why did they need to be FPS anyway? Yeah, 
 I know... theres a FPS multiplayer mode, which admittedly I havent tried out, but I wouldn't imagine 
 it'd be very good.
  
  Overall, if your a Star Wars fan and don't mind sub-par gameplay then you may find some redeeming 
 qualities in this game, its a decent length and the story is occasionally mildly interesting- but 
 I wouldn't recommend it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: darth_xavio
Rating: 8.5
Date: Mar 29, 2008 11:48 am PT
Review:  I fell in love with this game the day i played it. the graphics are very life like and will offer 
 great looks on the really cool planets. the first thing you notice about this game is that you 
 actually feel like you in the star wars world. unlike anther star wars games that the only way 
 you can tell its a star war game is its name and the ligtsabers. another thing that you will notice 
 is it is a great 3-d adventure and will keep you amazed of how great the game looks. also the mini 
 games fell just right ans goes into the game very smoothing and does not feel out of place. also 
 the zeoo missions are very interesting. the game play is a great way to have in a star wars game 
 for a kid and a adult can enjoy. the combat is not the best is just to hear the the satisfying 
 death scream of a storm tropper. the boss battles are fun but feel out of place with the final 
 battle. so if you are looking for a great star wars game look no further then the ds lethal alliance. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nintendoboy16
Rating: 7
Date: Jan 16, 2008 2:28 pm PT
Review:  Star Wars: Lethal Alliance is a game in the Star Wars series that takes place during episodes three 
 (Revenge of the Sith) and four (A new hope) .
  It starts out as Rianna Saren running away from two Stormtroopers on Coruscant. She stops running 
 and then gets rid of them. While she still runs she gets a call from Kyle Katarn, asking her to 
 steal an illegal shipment from a secret warehouse owned by an organization called "Black Sun." 
 Apparently, while on that attempt, she gets thrown in a prison cell and acidentally powers up a 
 security droid named Z-58-O. (Zeeo for short)
  Zeeo sucessfully frees Rianna and steals the shpment with her. Leaving a rendezvous with Kyle and 
 Princess Leia.
  
  What I liked about this game is that has great Star Wars action. Touch screen puzzles are fun. 
 Great blaster play. Good DS graphics.
  
  What I didn't like about this game is that the player can easily get hit when it comes to melee 
 attackes. The game is a little buggy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gamer-clemm
Rating: 8
Date: Nov 23, 2007 4:31 pm PT
Review:  Star Wars Lethal Alliance is a pretty good game. You play as a Twi'lek mercenary named Rianna Saren, 
 and you have a little security droid sidekick named Zeeo. You battle your way through some hostile 
 forces and steal the plans for the Empire's most treasured weapon known as the Death Star.
  
  If you'd like to learn a little bit more about Rianna Saren, she's like I said a Twi'lek, she 
 was sold into slavery and escaped on Coruscant as a teen to follow a criminal's path. Because of 
 her dark and painful past it leaves her vengeful, arrogant and most of all, deadly. Having escaped 
 the slave trade, she survived on a mercenary's wage by exacting her revenge on the Empire that 
 once had slaved her. Her ultimate target is the source of her vengeance, the Imperial Slave Master 
 named Zarien Kheev.
  
  If you'd like to known a little bit about Zeeo, he was officially known as Z-58-0 Security Droid. 
 Like Rianna, Zeeo had some history with the Empire's slave ring, which gives him a large database 
 of information on the Imperial network system. With Zeeo's knowledge and Rianna's mercenary skills 
 make them a very deadly duo.
  
  This game takes place in the years between Star Wars Episode III and Episode IV, when Princess 
 Leia proposes a dangerous quest to secure the future of the Rebel Alliance. Leia enlists the deadly 
 duo (Twi'lek mercenary Rianna and security droid Zeeo) . Together Rianna and Zeeo must infiltrate 
 Empire-controlled planets, fight some evil bosses (Zarien Kheev, Slak Sagar, Sedriss, & the Rancor) , 
 and steal the plans for the Death Star.
  
  The game's graphics are good, considering that they are on the Nintendo DS. It is in 3D and there 
 are at least two cinematic movies that are 3D as well. The sound is alright, although there are 
 no voice-overs you have to read. Sounds of the guns are pretty good. There are a couple of perplexed 
 puzzles, and you use the famous DS feature, the stylus.
  
  I would recommend this game for any Star Wars fan, and to any Science Fiction fan out there. But 
 if you are just quite not sure if you should play it or not, let me just say, rent it first. Also 
 I recommend that you probably should get it for the PSP, since the PSP has slightly better graphics 
 than the DS and might have voice-overs, not really sure.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: hyruleshero
Rating: 7.5
Date: Nov 22, 2007 4:30 pm PT
Review:  This game pretty much has alot to offer, bad graphics but great gameplay. The camera pisses u off 
 and when you get stuck (which doesnt happen that often) you are there for a while. But behind all 
 that, its a game u wont want to put down because it is filled with nonstop rebel alliance star wars 
 gaming that we all know and love. Well at least me. Most people dont put this game on their must 
 buy list but it is a game that u will want to play just because their isnt many good games for 
 the ds NAT...... I hope u guys have alot of fun with this one even though there isnt any sweet 
 wifi connection poning extraveganses 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hitman1988
Rating: 7.7
Date: May 14, 2007 5:07 am PT
Review:  I've only had my ds for a few days so I haven't really got anything to compare Star Wars with but 
 I think this game is good fun. Graphics aren't that great, but it's better then I thought it would 
 be. Music is good, you will remember a lot of the music from the movies. The story isn't very deep 
 but overall a great shooter/puzzle game. Don't expect anything epic and if you don't like star 
 wars this may not be your cup of tea. But if your looking for a good shooter on the go pick this 
 game up. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: joshman940
Rating: 9.2
Date: Mar 8, 2007 7:22 am PT
Review:  This is one of my favorite games also like almost all of mine because it has great 3-D graphics 
 for the DS and it uses the touch screen for some challenges that are sometimes a little hard but 
 not too hard so if you are a star wars fan you will like this game but the only bad thing is that 
 you do not get to be a jedi or use a lightsaber all you can use is three guns but they are pretty 
 good. There are boss battles but they are not hard the hardest one is where you fight the Rancor 
 but thats what I think. Overall this game is easy, fun, enjoyable, and hours of fun so I recommend 
 that you buy it. One thing that is also bad is the multiplayer you have to have more than one card 
 and it is not that fun. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Slayervorge3000
Rating: 9.1
Date: Feb 17, 2007 1:23 pm PT
Review:  Star Wars Lethal Alliance is a fun game. Once and awhile you'll find some really difficult part 
 with the puzzles that are in the game. the graphics are that good but its got graphics for a Nintendo 
 Handheld. Sometimes I think the enemies cheat, especially at the end. The last boss is in a gigantic 
 machine with guns and guns. It's a really really fun game that many people would like, maybe even 
 people that never really cares for Star Wars would like it. The best part in the game is when you 
 get the big gun and shot the troops with (what it looks like) a hand-size bullet which will kill 
 em' in two hits or less.
  
  Star Wars Rules! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Havraha
Rating: 7.6
Date: Jan 6, 2007 3:15 am PT
Review:  When I heard that a Star Wars 3rd Person Shooter was coming out for the DS, I was simultaneously 
 scared and excited. When I found out that game was being made by the same guys who made the abyssmal 
 King Kong game for the DS at launch, I was just plain scared. But having post poned my purchase 
 long enough, I'm pleasantly surprised by a unique game that satisfied me in difficulty and story.
 
  
  Enter Rianna Saren, an original character by the game's writer's who's a mercenary-for-higher. 
 An ex-slave Twi'lek (and we know what those are used for!) , she's escaped, though at a painful 
 price, and has taken up the job of ... well ... doing whatever is needed to grab a buck. And in 
 this case, Star Wars: Lethal Alliance follows a hinted at plot line for the original movie, as 
 Rianna strikes blows against the Empire and proceeds on her own vendetta for revenge against her 
 past slave master, Kheev, culiminating in the stealing of the Empire's evil plans for the Death 
 Star.
  
  If you're wondering how exactly a 3rd Person Shooter actually even plays on the DS, here's your 
 answer -- the game practically plays itself. What you do is fairly simple and straight forward 
 ... and Rianna herself ... can't do much. Basically, she can shoot at people with a blaster via 
 an automatic lock on feature which turns on right as you start firing away with an enemy in the 
 vicinity. Hence, the shooting mechanic is pretty simple. What'll make it hard is that your enemies 
 are surprisingly good shots, so you'll have to get proficient at strafing and rolling to avoid 
 gunfire, which is much harder than it sounds. Rianna also has a melee weapon called the Thorn of 
 Ryloth which is basically a small glowing blade which is automatically used whenever you attack 
 someone at close range, but actually trying to use it will probably nab you a few unnecessary shots. 
 If that's not enough -- the Prince of Persia-esque wall acrobatics are lacking from the DS version 
 of the game, making Rianna seem like a pretty crappy mercenary.
  
  So what do we have so far? The makings of a not so great game. Happily, the gameplay eventually 
 makes a comeback with the introduction of Zeeo, a security droid which takes a liking to Rianna 
 as if he'd been expecting her all along. With Zeeo on your side, the Lethal Alliance is formed, 
 and the gameplay hence skyrockets in improvement.
  
  Commanded by you, Zeeo can run up to enemies and stun them, join you in a ground pound manuever 
 that knocks everyone around you to their feet, join you to execute a dive-bombing attack for an 
 instant kill, and even become a personal shield for a short time. All of these things are made 
 possible by a power bar that refills itself, but you don't want to make excessive use of else you'll 
 drain poor little Zeeo.
  
  And that's just the combat parts. With Zeeo, the game takes on additional gameplay ELEMENTS such 
 as using Zeeo to travel on walls and ceilings, stealth elements like avoiding mines and electrical 
 obstacles and security turrents, sending Zeeo off into a 1st Person perspective into ducts do he 
 can disable security doors, riding Zeeo in a rail fashion along the side of walls while shooting 
 and avoiding mines, and a whole mess of puzzles which you'll be required to complete.
  
  The most challenging part of the game probably is the puzzles, as the onscreen instructions aren't 
 exactly very clear on what to do and the likelyhood is you'll pull your hair out trying figure 
 them out. Nonetheless, they're rather good once you do, and you'll end up simultaneously hating 
 and looking forward to them.
  
  While the PSP game offered a Twi'lek vs. Twi'lek multiplayer option, the DS offers a Droid vs. 
 Droid multiplayer option instead, and for good reason -- the game excels on the DS with Zeeo by 
 using the stylus to turn him in his 1st person perspective much like Metroid Prime Hunters (though 
 the controls aren't as tight) , and the puzzles are also easier to pull off with the stylus as opposed 
 to their PSP counterparts.
  
  Sound effects wise the game is kind of weak, as some sounds like the one made while riding Zeeo 
 ... you may just never hear unless you're using headphones. Music wise, the game basically takes 
 you're standard Star Wars library songs and reuses them again. Its a good thing this music is so 
 good else we'd may actually be complaining. Graphics wise it's impressive what they've been able 
 to take from a game that was originally made for something that had the equivalent power of a PS2, 
 and then put it on a system that's only slightly better than an N64. As expected, the textures 
 are murky in some cases and pixelated in others, but you'll be surprised with the amount of detail 
 they were able to pull of nonetheless. Still, the graphics aren't any where close to being as impressive 
 as what was done with Metroid Prime Hunters, but they'll do for the game as is.
  
  All in all, about half of the game is used getting you adept at the various gameplay elements, 
 and then everything is thrown at you full force about midway through. If you're a Star Wars fan 
 and looking for a game that is a unique mix of various gameplay elements, its hard to go wrong 
 with Lethal Alliance. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MasterCrow44
Rating: 7.2
Date: Dec 29, 2006 10:04 am PT
Review:  When I got the game I had extremely high hopes for it, like anyother Star Wars game on the market, 
 this particularly seemed like a cool idea, mixing a Lara like character into the Star Wars universe; 
 I was sadly a little disappoined. The graphics grew on me, but by no means is it going to be the 
 best the DS can put out. he gamne play is where this game shines, it's an interesting mix of a 
 puzzel game, action game and platformer. I liked that part, but even that got to be repetitive 
 as the game goes on. The story is alright, but not very in interesting. The sound is great as with 
 most of the Star Wars games and there was no voice acting to move the story along. For SW fans 
 as well as fans of action games, you might be better off renting it irst and then seeing if you 
 want to put down $40 to buy it. This game is underrated as a port on the DS the stylist activities 
 are needed in this game and it is very fun. The game itself only took me about 12 hours to complete; 
 in short this game is alright, but very little replay value. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pikastar
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 24, 2006 7:57 pm PT
Review:  Star Wars: Lethal Alliance is a wonderful mix between fighting, puzzles and racing. The guns are 
 each multi functional and add variety to the types of kills you can make. The partnership between 
 the main character and the droid is great. The more kills you perform as a unit, the higher alliance 
 you get. With a higher alliance, you can take attacks better as well as perform better as a team. 
 This game does not allow you to slip into the old button mashing ways. Many encounters must have 
 action from both you and the droid. The bosses are fun to fight against. They require timing and 
 patience to kill. There are about 5 different kinds of puzzles depending on what obstacle needs 
 to be cleared. Each type of puzzle has a different configuration every time you come up to one. 
 The puzzles are to deactivate shields blocking your path, unlock doors, destroy minefields, take 
 control of security droids to destroy troopers, and prevent moving laser walls from killing your 
 main character. The racing portions are very fun. You use the droid to fly along the paths. There 
 are no major turns to do but you can't just fly through without any thought. There are moving mines, 
 moving electric fields, enemies to shoot, and as you progress in the game there are walls you must 
 move around. At certain times you must use a boost of speed to get past the moving mine before 
 it reaches you or slow up to make the turn before you would slam into the wall. The length of the 
 game is good but I wish there was more just because I can't seem to put it down. This game is wonderful 
 and I am glad I bought it. I would gladly buy the sequel if they do one. A must have for any Star 
 Wars fan and highly recommended to anyone who enjoys action/adventure games. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: thesuperbean
Rating: 7.5
Date: Dec 24, 2006 2:56 am PT
Review:  Lethal Alliance is a solid shooter for the DS, it utilises the DS's unique functions, perhaps not 
 as well as some first-party games, but the mini-games and sub-missions are hugely improved by the 
 stylus controls and second screen. The targeting system on the DS version can sometimes be tricky; 
 you may not be able to lock-on to the target that you want to; but with practice it is easily overcome. 
 The graphics aren't as good as the PSP version, but are still considerably good considering the 
 DS's capacity for graphics.
  
  This game is probably not suitable for casual gamers or for younger gamers. Die hard Star Wars 
 fans will love this game, and shoot-em-up lovers will find it to be an enjoyable distraction.
 
  
  Don't get your hopes up too much about this game, it's not a masterpiece, but it's a step in the 
 right direction and hopefully Ubisoft will learn from their mistakes in their next game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: M453nk0
Rating: 5.3
Date: Dec 15, 2006 7:55 am PT
Review:  It's not all about the graphic I must say... of course the graphics are better on the psp, but that's 
 something everybodys knows. It's just that I don't know, why they had to do a version for the ds... It 
 looks like made perfectly fit for the psp... in my opinion they could have done another game for 
 the ds which would fit better... I'm thinking about maybe a game like dark forces or a flying shooter 
 like the x-wing series... they would be great to control with the touchscreen... in this game here 
 the touchscreen is only used to steer zeeo and to do some easy puzzles. I mean... Or they could 
 have done some kind of lightsaber-swinging game, where you can battle enemies only with the stylus.
 
  Don't get me wrong... this game isn't bad... but I just couldn't get along with it that much... I 
 bought a ds, because I wanted Games, that make alot of fun and would use the touchscreen perfectly. 
 For the action I bought a psp... so I just don't know, why they release a game for the ds, that 
 is so not DS-like.
  So all I can say is:
  If you are a star wars and you only own a DS, than you should buy it or rent it for some time to 
 play it... but if you own a DS and a PSP, then don't waste your time with the DS-Version... go buy 
 it for the psp. Cause the psp has for example nice FMVs and a good english synchronisation... but 
 the ds has none of this and it therefore it lacks alot of atmosphere 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
