-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Star Trek: Tactical Assault
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/ds/strategy/startrektacticalassault/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 Original strategic concept forces you to consider ship movement, multiple shield facings, and weapon location.
 Skirmish and Wi-Fi battles extend the game's shelf life.
 William Shatner.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 One-note gameplay boils down to the same basic maneuvers every time.
 surprise asteroid collisions are frustrating.
 boring story without any recognizable or interesting characters.
 license is woefully underutilized.
 not enough William Shatner.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Nov 10, 2006
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 6.2
Critic Score: 6.2, 16 Review (s)
User Score: 7.8, 177 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Bethesda Softworks
Developer: Quicksilver Soft.
Genre: Sci-Fi Real-Time Strategy
Date: Oct 26, 2006
ESRB: Everyone

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Star Trek: Tactical Assault is a neat idea but doesn't offer much strategy -- or much Star Trek, for 
 that matter. 

  There's been plenty of Star Trek games over the past few years, but the franchise has never appeared 
 on the Nintendo DS. It's understandable that series fans would be excited about Tactical Assault 
 because the platform is a comfortable home for some quality strategy titles. Yet Tactical Assault 
 is not a typical strategy game, and the original design feels fresh when you first start playing. 
 But it's also a one-trick pony, boiling down to the same basic maneuvers and slow-paced combat. 
 It also horribly overlooks its license. You'll deal with Klingons and Romulans, but the dull story 
 and unrecognizable characters could have been used in any generic intergalactic setting.  

          Beware of asteroids: they're more dangerous than Romulans.     

  It's too bad that 
 the story is dull because there's a good idea at work in Tactical Assault, which is similar to 
 a stripped down version of Starfleet Command. As a starship captain, you need to take multiple 
 systems under consideration when entering battle. Your shield facings are first and foremost, and 
 they are represented by arcs that circle the ship. As your opponent whittles away at your shields, 
 rotating your ship is key in avoiding damage. You'll also want to aim for your enemy's vulnerable 
 openings. Then, there's the issue of weapons. Each ship has two weapon types, which are mounted 
 in various locations. Weapons have a specific firing arc, so your enemy must be within firing range 
 of that weapon. They also have a charge-up time, so you can't just continually fire at your foes 
 from a single stance.  

  The battles are a dance between you and your opponents as you maneuver your ship so that your strongest 
 shields face your enemy while simultaneously positioning your active weapons so they can fire. 
 For a while, it creates an interesting and methodical tug-of-war. As you progress from mission 
 to mission, you earn new ships with more layers of shields and different weapon placements. You'll 
 also earn upgrade points that you use to level up officers, so you can increase ship speed, weapon 
 effectiveness, and more. There's an emergency power bar to watch too. If you hold the R button 
 while moving or attacking, your action is more effective. Although it depletes some energy from 
 your power bar, it does slowly replenish over time.  

  It sounds complex, but it's quite simple in practice. You essentially fire your available weapons, 
 turn your ship so that another batch of weapons faces your enemy, fire those weapons, and repeat, 
 ad nauseam. Even with the addition of temporary ability boosts, cloaking, and officer upgrades, 
 it gets predictable really fast. You can scan objects or hail other ships outside of combat, but 
 these abilities don't do anything aside from move the story along.  

  That is, if you can call it a story. It just boils down to a bunch of disjointed missions that 
 recycle elements from the original Star Trek series. The Klingons hate the Federation. They infiltrate 
 the Neutral Zone and disrupt current peace talks. The Romulans are somehow involved. The basic-beyond-belief 
 plot might be more satisfying if you got to lead Captain Kirk into battle, but you're stuck with 
 an unfamiliar cast original to the game. The ships and races are all that make the franchise recognizable. 
 It's almost as if Bethesda Softworks slapped the license on a generic space game that was already 
 in development. Aside from affecting your end-mission rating, the multiple choice endings offered 
 with some missions don't extend beyond the mission or significantly alter the gameplay. We do, 
 however, give props to the Klingon-language option. This option replaces the English text in the 
 Klingon campaign with the native tongue.  

  Some other good ideas also miss the mark. There are three status alert levels: green, yellow, and 
 red. Green is the standard alert level; yellow raises shields; and red allows you to fire weapons. 
 While there are a few circumstances where your current alert status affects a dialogue tree, it 
 usually serves no purpose other than to frustrate. You will enter an area at green alert then be 
 attacked, which will require you to fumble around with your stylus to activate yellow or red alert. 
 Alert levels sound like a good idea, but the need to activate your weapons manually is more annoying 
 than tactical. In fact, the touch-screen menus could have been more streamlined in general. To 
 activate your shield charger while playing as Federation, you need to leave the weapons tab, go 
 under the shields tab, activate the charger, then move back to the weapons tab. If you are using 
 the D pad and face buttons, it's very awkward because it takes you away from your main ship controls. 

  Environmental objects can cause a great deal of damage to your ship if you run into them. In theory, 
 avoiding asteroids and using them as cover could have been a cool strategic addition. The third-person 
 camera, however, is zoomed in so closely that you often can't see them in enough time to avoid 
 them. There's nothing like losing an entire face of shields or damaging your hull because you ran 
 into a moon that you didn't see until it was too late. Those collisions will most likely cost you 
 the battle, particularly in the challenging Klingon missions, because the artificial intelligence 
 never seems to have the same problem.  

  Star Trek: Tactical Assault includes Federation and Klingon campaigns, as well as skirmish battles 
 against the artificial intelligence and another player via Wi-Fi. It's a good array of options 
 that include five different maps and a variety of ships at your disposal in a skirmish, as well 
 as Romulan ones. There is also an additional multiplayer mode called battle fest, where each player 
 starts in his race's smallest ship. When a player is defeated, he returns in the next biggest ship 
 until there are no ships left in the hierarchy. The first player to run out of re-spawns loses. 
 Even if doesn't significantly alter the gameplay, it's easily the strongest mode because it adds 
 an additional layer of enjoyment that is missing from the rest of the game.  

          Too bad the combat isn't as pretty as the menu.     

  Tactical Assault's presentation 
 doesn't make it feel any more Trekkish, other than the impressive opening cutscene and William 
 Shatner's awesomely laconic voice-over. Space is noticeably bland, with the shield arcs and phasers 
 providing the majority of color. The ship models are OK, but they lack detail and character. Even 
 opportunities for a stylish look are wasted, such as the cartoonish but generic officer portraits. 
 The music does its best to set the tone. As good as it is, however, it supplies most of the sound 
 design. The din of battle also wears thin because it's the same phaser fire over and over.  

  Star Trek: Tactical Assault is brimming with good ideas that just don't feel fleshed out. It's 
 got a nice strategic concept but doesn't run far enough with it. Even with two lengthy campaigns 
 and skirmish options, it doesn't feel quite complete. The underused license is also a shame because 
 a little Captain Kirk goes a long way. Trekkies will find Tactical Assault worth a look, but there 
 isn't enough Star Trek  or  strategy to give life to the game's promising concept.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (16 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: Zaku_Abumi118
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 4, 2008 8:41 am PT
Review:  I bought Star trek Tactical assault because I was going on holiday and I needed a new game for 
 my DS, so i picked up the only one in the shop for under 10 and this was it.
  Tactical assault allows you to play in a campaign as the Federation or the Klingons. I prefer the 
 Federation campaign as there's more thinking involved in it and every action has a consequence 
 whereas the Klingon campaign boils down to someone's entered you're space blow them up, 15 times. 
 I would have preferred a third campaign as the Romulans as they are by far the best species to 
 play as.
  Besides from the campaigns there's a skirmish mode. This involves you choosing up to four ships 
 to battle each other with you controlling one. You can choose from a variety of ships from the 
 Federation, Klingon, Romulan, Gorn and Orion fleets.
  The game play itself is essentially a beat-em-up in space. You have to keep you're strongest shields 
 facing the enemy whilst trying to hit them in their weakest areas. 
  The ships are recognisable and are very well done; the music is very militaristic and suits the 
 battles very well whilst the ships weapons sound realistic. 
  Ultimately this is a game which many people could enjoy. Each skirmish lasts a good length of time 
 and one or two will easily make a car journey fly by. The campaign can be completed in a day but 
 with the cheat of being able to select any ship for a campaign match it can last you a lot longer. 
 This is a game that anyone can pick up very cheaply now so anyone after a good game that will pass 
 the time, buy Star trek Tactical assault 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DavisDUDE333
Rating: 7
Date: Jul 1, 2008 4:15 am PT
Review:  Let's cut to the chase...
  
  THE GOOD:
  
  * Amazing 3-D - Looks, and feels like you're controlling the Enterprise, though you aren't. 
 
  
  * Missions - Fun, creative. They get old, though. Fortunately there is a second campaign. Don't 
 look for much depth here, Trekkies. 
  
  * Music/Sounds - Although you won't hear that Doo doo, doo doo doo doo (okay, I'll stop) at the 
 end of each mission, music sounds enough like Star Trek. Phaser beams sound a little "squishy" 
 like. It works.
  
  THE BAD:
  
  * Logic, Captain - Where's Kirk, Spock, and McCoy? On leave? Actually, the story is all about a 
 new captain and his faithful crew. 
  
  * You're leaving the neutral zone - By the 6th or 7th mission it'll be too boring to go on.
  
 
  * Shields offline - Dying is tough, because you'll be going all the way back to start of each mission.
 
  
  * Saving... - There is none. 
  
  * KAHN!!!!!!!!!!! - Where's the story? Just the average day of some average captain and his crew!
 
  
  * Someone is stealing the Enterprise! - You get to control plenty of ships, including Sulu's. But 
 no Enterprise.
  
  * Star Trek out - Not much Star Trek. Plenty of Klingons though. 
  
  Sorry for all the Star Trek talk. I can't help myself. :) This game feels like some space combat 
 jammed into science fiction. Trekkies, there is hardly any Star Trek in here. I sort of enjoyed 
 playing this game until the plot was gone and I kept dying. It's still a fun game, even without 
 Kirk. Not many tactics to be used, except the cheat codes. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bangyerdead
Rating: 8
Date: Apr 5, 2008 12:49 am PT
Review:  to use up words, heres a little joke for you (a bit on the not-for-parents thing)
  
  There was this boy in high school that was what you would consider a nerd. Anyway he had his own 
 lab in the basement of his home and one night he came up and said "Dad look what I made." So he 
 poured a flask of fluid into a pot of soil and instantly grass started to grow.
  
  Of course his dad was really impressed with this and asked his son if he can make something to 
 make his penis grow.
  
  His son thought for a minute and said that if he did then dad would have to buy him a convertable.
 
  
  Dad agreed. 
  
  The next night the son came out of the basement and gave his dad a vial. The next morning his father 
 came to him and told him that he had something to show him. They went to the front yard and the 
 boy saw a cherry red ferrari.
  
  The son looked at his dad and said "I only asked for a convertable."
  
  The dad replied "the 
 convertable is in the garage. The Ferrari is from your mother." 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Pazy160
Rating: 9.6
Date: Jul 9, 2007 3:51 pm PT
Review:  Star Trek: Tactical Assault is a DS (and Psp) game which is very similar to the PC series of games 
 Starfleet Command . It features two campaigns of around 14 missions, a Federation and a Klingon. 
 Within the story you play as the Captain but as the story is contained in either in restrictive 
 conversations or in between missions you don't feel like the Captain. For what its worth you actually 
 play as the ship. Using either the touch screen or the D-pad you can manoeuvre the ship and control 
 its speed. Firing is controlled by the B and A buttons (Phasers and Photons respectively) with 
 R being the Overcharge option, this uses up emergency power and increases damaged, and finally 
 L controls targeting.
  The combat is simplistic, simple head towards your enemy and fire when in range carefullyusing 
 the Overcharge option while also covering your sheild arcs (the shield is split into 4 areas which 
 take damage separately, rotate your ship to stop taking damage there) . In single player things 
 are slightly more complicated, in the Federation campaign there is a chance for diplomacy which 
 makes combat more interesting though there is none of this in the Klingon campaign. During single 
 player you are often also charge with defence often which changes combat somewhat. The multiplayer/skirmish 
 mode is simple ship to ship combat, you can make teams but often you are seperated into groups 
 of two (one enemy and one ally) which makes team games only sligtly more interesting than non-team 
 games.
  The graphics feel suitably 'Trekky' and are quite good for the system that is on. You are never 
 left wanting more detail. The sound is also quite good, if you are a trekky, it features the appropriate 
 phaser, photons and red alert, among other things, sounds from the TV.
  To summarise, it is a Trek game playing like a lite-starfeet command which is great for short burst 
 but wont keep most people glued to there DS for days on end. It is a Solid game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: coolereieio
Rating: 7.8
Date: Jun 30, 2007 8:13 am PT
Review:  If you've played any space strategy game, this will be familiar with how things work in this game. 
 I saw reviews that said it was a third-rate game not deserving attention, which was disapointing, 
 since i've been looking forward to this game for allmost a year. Anyway, while doing some gift 
 shopping I came accross a buy two, get one free deal. So, i decided to pick this game since, why 
 not? It's free! I was suprised at how good it really was. I'm glad i picked it up, because even 
 as a casual fan it was fun. The button controls work well, with touch screen option that is less 
 favorable. The graphics are actually pretty good for ds, and very playable, 3D with no noticable 
 (if any) lag. There are no characters from the series, but i loved being my own character. Your 
 ship is upgradable... but you can't choose your crew. I can live with that. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: subnuke678
Rating: 8.7
Date: Apr 4, 2007 2:24 pm PT
Review:  This is standard Trek fare. It works well with the Trekkie crowd and probably pretty good for the 
 non-Trek crowd. I'm an original and hard-core Trekkie so I love it. My teenage son who is somewhat 
 of a Star Trek fan because of my influence, did temporarily abandon Yoshi's Island to BORROW my 
 Star Trek: Tactical Assault. In a day and a half, he played through both the Federation and Klingon 
 campaigns.
  
  This game is totally familiar and has almost no learning curve IF you are familiar with the PC 
 Star Fleet Command series. If you're at least familiar with the Star Trek universe or an experienced 
 gamer, you only have to learn which button sequences activate which commands. If you're a noob 
 to the ST universe, you've got some things to learn - moderate learning curve but not hard. Weapons, 
 Shields, Phasers, Photon Torpedoes are all pretty standard game stuff. Learning the nuances and 
 the tactical situations that call for Emergency Deceleration and some of the other maneuvers requires 
 experience.
  
  I would strongly advise anyone playing this game to learn the button commands rather than using 
 the stylus. Maneuvers, activating Shield Regeneration, Hails, etc. are much faster in the heat 
 of battle with the button combos rather than switching back and forth between Navigation, Weapons, 
 and Shields on the lower screen. The Upper Screen is where the action is taking place while the 
 touch screen provides instant access to all ship's systems and status. You play through a series 
 of set mission assignments. Gameplay is intense once the shooting starts. While the game is definitely 
 fun, Bethesda had an opportunity to add some non-linear game sequences depending on decision-making 
 and performance during the missions but didn't. Mission performance only affects the number of 
 upgrades to your ship - this is actually advanced classes for key members of your crew who then 
 become more proficient at certain tasks or learn advanced techniques. This covers everything from 
 improved phaser power to faster phaser recharges, improved emergency battery management, and improved 
 maneuvering. A few of the missions actually require or have an opportunity to interact with people 
 in the game and a very few even affect when the fighting will start - later if you're smart or 
 sooner if you're not.
  
  One of the good, but sometimes frustrating requirements, is that you have to protect your fellow 
 starships even when they do something stupid. Because if they die, the mission fails and you have 
 to play again. It wouldn't be quite so bad if you were the taskforce commander and could order 
 them to withdraw, but it doesn't work that way. Again, Bethesda missed an opportunity to enrich 
 gameplay.
  
  Overall, this is a good but not great game and I definitely recommend it to anyone who is a Star 
 Trek fan or who loves space games. Winning missions requires a modicum of strategy and solid battle 
 tactics. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: boku14
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 2, 2007 8:23 pm PT
Review:  Well First off, its a Star Trek RPG. So if your not into the whole Good guys always win and the 
 tech talk thing, then you will most likely hate this game. But then, if you did not like those 
 things, why would you be looking at a Star Trek game?
  
  Anyway.....
  
  Its a good game, Trekkies will love it. For you Trekkies that are from around the days of TOS, 
 then you will love this game even more. Though, you do not get to play as kirk, you get to play 
 at around his time. At first you play a human captian just starting out. When you have to go and 
 kill countless Klingons and Romulans, and a few Orion Pirates just for kicks, to stay alive. But 
 I won't ruin the story for you *cough* Sherman's Planet *cough*. After you get done with that story 
 line. You get to unlock another one, but this time your playing a Klingon! But, sadly, you can't 
 kill any Starfleet guys.... But you will be killing alot of Romulans and *not ruining it* Outlaw 
 Klingons, and a few Gorn just for kicks, to bring honor to your house! Once your done with both 
 storys, you can go back and re-do them, to see what would happen if you picked another path. Yes, 
 thats right, while playing through both story lines, you will be given more then one path to go 
 down. Save a fellow Starfleet ship, Or go attack a romulan. is one of the many cross-roads you 
 will be at during the game.
  
  Also a rather neat thing in the story-line is, is that you can upgrade your crew. After each mission 
 you will get a few points, that you can spend on upgrading your crew. For example, upgrading your 
 weapons officer will get you faster firing weapons, Photons that hit there targets, ect. But don't 
 waste the points, as you will only get a certian number per mission (between 1 and 2) .
  
  Which brings up an another neat thing, depending on which paths you pick in the missions, will 
 give you more or less points to spend on upgrading your crew.
  
  While you are playing through the Story-lines you unlock different ships for multiplayer. Once 
 you have finished both story lines, you will have unlocked them all, and be ready to go kick your 
 buddies' butts!
  
  In short, Shermans Planet, Worf's dead family, Gorn, lots of pew pew pew! What more do you need? 
 10/10 from me.... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: shadowblade99
Rating: 7.3
Date: Mar 24, 2007 9:37 am PT
Review:  It's been a long hard run for Star Trek games on consoles (and there are very few on PC that are 
 excellent either) but it looks like Bethesda is trying to change that, slowly but surely. Tactical 
 Assualt takes place during the Original Series of Star Trek, although you wouldn't be able to tell 
 that because there are little mention of previous characters, and many of these ships didn't show 
 up in the Original Series or Movies. The story line is ok, you're a new Captain trying to make 
 a good name for your self. You have crew members that you can upgrade to make your ship better 
 and along the way you'll get new ships and eventually unlock several modes. The graphics look pretty 
 good on the DS, they are on par with many of the N64 space sim titles (such as Rogue Squadron) . 
 They could use a little bit of a nip and tuck here but all in all it's in good shape. The controls 
 aren't very new. Like many of the games for DS the control scheme doesn't capitallize on the touch 
 screen function and everything can be done with the buttons too. It does make use of the two screens, 
 but much like every other game out for DS, it's a menu screen and doesn't really assist that much 
 with functionality. Unfortunatly there is very little Star Trek theme music in this game, but William 
 Shatner does do a monolog in the begining. The sounds are pretty authentic and it does make you 
 feel like your in the Star Trek universe. The levels are pretty basic as well as the game play. 
 Don't get destroyed, angle your ship's strongest sheild toward your enemy and then fire. Rinse, 
 dry and repeat. The difficult level does spike after a while so you can get some replay out of 
 it, and the multi player is pretty fun too. All and all it's one of the better outings for Star 
 Trek and I personally hope there is more to come. Hopfully it's popularity will pick up again and 
 we'll get a good TV series out of it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bighaben
Rating: 5.8
Date: Dec 17, 2006 8:52 pm PT
Review:  I reluctantly picked this game up not expecting much, but with the horrible reviews of Legacy, 
 and my need to play a Star Trek game, and my copy of Starfleet Command III not working for some 
 reason I felt I had no other choice but to pick it up. I was fairly disapointed. The game is a 
 little fun, and a little startegy is needed to play, but it's a little repative, and the combat 
 very boring. The game is very difficult and it's difficulty isn't because it's hard, it's because 
 you just are not powerful enough, you may need to do some startegic maneavures, but you're way 
 to limited, and the only thing that determines a win or not is if you have upgraded correctly.
 
  
  The enviroments look like crap, I played Metrod Pime Hunters, I know what this system is at least 
 capable of. The planets could at least be round, and there could be more then just a few asteroids 
 and a oddly similiar planet in each area. The ship models looks fairly decent however, and I will 
 cut it some slack since it is on a handheld that is graphically powerful like the PSP. However 
 I was expecting mroe.
  
  It's a fun game to mess around, and the scrhimish mode will had some replay value. I say rent it, 
 but buying may not be a wise investment. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ntfx
Rating: 5.8
Date: Dec 16, 2006 1:11 pm PT
Review:  I purchased this game yesterday, as i was a childhood fan of the series, and loved the idea of 
 a portable star trek game for on the move.
  
  While the presentation is very good, Unfortunately this is bogged down by quite poor ship graphics, 
 missions that are all too much the same and the fact that the touch screen is quite unresponsive 
 with this game, often needing to touch the screen on an icon a couple of times before it recognizes. 
 Something which constantly bugged me about the game.
  
  Another annoyance was the fact that, when doing a mission which has 3 parts, if you had got past 
 1 or 2 of these parts. and you die, then you must start them all again, a repetitiveness which 
 constantly makes one rage.
  
  Doing a 3 part missions, which can range from fighting 2 ships in each part, without being given 
 time to recharge, or repair. Can be quite frustrating.
  
  A nice effort by Bethesda, but seeing as these are the people who bring us games like Oblivion, 
 I cannot accept the quality of this release.
  
  Also seeing as this is a star trek liscensed franchise, why do they not adorn the appropriate ship 
 numbers and classes? the start menu screen has the ncc 1700. Which i find quite bizzarre. Aswell 
 as no sign of the original crew.
  
  Shame there is a lack of Wi-Fi Play other than local people. This could have been its saviour...
 
  
  Worth a Rent, Not a purchase, unless you like to sit at home in your custom built captain kirk 
 chair and uniform... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gamelover37
Rating: 9.3
Date: Nov 22, 2006 9:27 am PT
Review:  First of all iI have to say that i am a fan of all things Star Trek. Except for a few of their 
 games. The steep learning curve made this game hard at first but once I got used t o the controls 
 i liked the blend of stylus and button. The only problem i really had with the game was the fact 
 that... Well for example: Take the first missions of the Federation and the Klingon campaigns. 
 the Federation mission is about ten twenty times easier. Personally I think they should they should 
 be on the same difficulty from start to finish. Other than that I loved this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: trisjules
Rating: 9.3
Date: Nov 13, 2006 9:47 am PT
Review:  Wow. Absolutely love it. A lot of reviews said that there wasn't enough Kirk to make this game 
 Star Trek, but that's the reason I love it. So many games (Star Wars: Galaxies and such) do WAY 
 TOO MUCH name dropping and make the game feel like you only occupy a tiny universe. This game essentially 
 separates you completely, making it feel like it's your very own adventure. It's like a simpler 
 version of Starfleet Command, which I also loved. If you're a Trek fan, you can't pass it up. Otherwise, 
 there may not be a lot there for you. But the DS makes this game awesome simply because of the 
 extremely visceral HUD setup using the touch screen. LOVE IT 
::::::

::::::
UserName: briskimj
Rating: 8.7
Date: Nov 6, 2006 8:31 am PT
Review:  I waited for this game to come out, and when I noticed that it wasn't on store shelves I was slightly 
 disappointed. But I extremely happy to find that it finally came out last week, and needless to 
 say I snagged this right up.
  
  At a cost of $34.99 it seemed kinda steep for a DS game. But once one plays this game and gets 
 past to the downgraded graphics to its counterpart on the PSP they find its totally worth it. I've 
 only played this game for about 5 missions now, but I'm highly impressed with the game play. The 
 creators use of the touchpad on the DS is one of the best that I've seen. All the movements and 
 tactical can be controlled by the use of it. But if you're one of the few DS owners who enjoy the 
 classic feel of a d-pad and button control you still have the option to control your ship this 
 way.
  
  I won't spoil too much on the gameplay; even though I haven't played though most of it yet! Starting 
 out Starfleet gives you command of a small freighter which allows you to get right into the game. 
 (Sadly you are not able to name your ship or yourself for that matter) As each mission progresses 
 you can upgrade you crew by the points you earn through each mission. As far as I can tell the 
 whole jist of the game is to do a mission, get some points, get some upgrades, then rinse rather 
 and repeat. I'm not saying that this is bad, because each mission has been a little different from 
 the last.
  
  And if you're bummed about not being able to work on your creativity (ex: naming your ship and 
 such) you still have the semi option of choosing your own path in a mission. I say semi because 
 during a mission the game will give you certain options to choose. Its up to you to decide if you 
 want to blow the enemy away or to talk to them to find peace. haven't done much multiplayer, mainly 
 because I don't know anyone around here that would by this game other than myself. So I'll leave 
 this area to the other members here. Or I may get back to it later.
  
  In all if you're a trekie (or a trekker, which I am) I'm highly sure you'll enjoy this game. Its 
 not as open ended as the Starfleet Command games we've played, but hell this is a handheld and 
 you can't ask for anything more, right? So Godspeed and command your ship wisely. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: milhon74
Rating: 9.4
Date: Nov 4, 2006 10:25 am PT
Review:  when i bought this game I thought it might be like the old star trek pc game (Orion Priates) , You 
 have big battles but you can't buy better ships, like in the old version you can have as many ships 
 you want or that you can control but in this version it is better with just one ship and work with 
 it, I am a trekkie fan and will always be one, I have enjoyed this game very much, i do wish that 
 you could have sent repair teams to damaged sections to repair you parts, and givena better chance 
 for revenge. I hope when people read this that they willl know that a true trekkie has been here 
 and as noticed that this game is in top form. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BentSea
Rating: 8.2
Date: Nov 1, 2006 4:47 pm PT
Review:  This game is better than the numbers add up to, if you're into what you get. Some people will really 
 love this game a lot, while others will feel robbed if their expectations were far too high.
  
  The hype is that on the DS, you get a Star Trek game that gives you control of tactical battles 
 in cruisers where you act as captain, allowing you some real freedom in the way you handle situations. 
 Bethesda has provided special to this version a touch screen interface with extreme detail that 
 offers players the chance to literally get their hands on controls like the ones in the shows, 
 a Trekkie's wet dream. Happily, the reality is not very far from the mark, but sadly it is far 
 enough that any early impressions will be quite disappointing for players who expected that the 
 combat would be rich and involving. Turning, accelerating, firing charged weapons, and almost anything 
 requiring piloting and combat are handled much better with the buttons instead of the touchscreen, 
 but there is enough there that the two combined integrate very well. The stylus is not required 
 as all that is needed here and there are gentle taps that could be handled with a fingernail.
 
  
  Fantasies will be fulfilled as things are scanned, and ships and stations alike are hailed, but 
 as soon as the action starts the sadness begins. Tactical Assault is very much an action game, 
 designed very much with fast paced fly and shoot action in mind. When the game progresses and the 
 crew is sufficiently upgraded in at least one area or another, as well as when you are flying a 
 better ship, there will be moments where the player is very much required to think about the facing 
 of their ship, their speed, and how much power they can divert to shields and how much to divert 
 to more powerful weapon bursts. But the combat is never slow enough that you can use the controls 
 on the touch screen for it, or that you can plot a careful course of action around a strategy.
 
  
  Certain aspects of the ship to ship combat really stand out, the occasional ability to call for 
 aid, which would be far more fulfilling if the game did not practically tell you to do it. When, 
 upon arriving in a sector, the game blatantly tells you that there is a ship nearby and you should 
 call it for help, there really is no other option since there are no bonuses for fighting the good 
 fight alone. Outside of the missions, you are given the option to upgrade crew. However, the skills 
 are thinly masked as crew skills and read much more like pure ship upgrades that carry over from 
 ship to ship. Faster phaser recharges, photon loads, more efficient shield recharging, things of 
 that sort, heck, even flat out more powerful weapons. A good point is that all of the skills really 
 do something good. There are none that feel superficially added just for the effect. Sometimes 
 it really is a difficult choice which upgrade will help your last one more, there is not much more 
 to say about them than that. Regardless of what upgrades you get, the game is still rather hard 
 at points.
  
  Now, even with all the decisions you make outside the game with how you level your ship, it saddens 
 the heart to say that tactical considerations never rise above keeping the side with your heavier 
 shields to the enemy or how to get your armed weapons to bear without getting blown up, but, there 
 are some missions that really go above and beyond outside of the combat. Once in a blue moon, perhaps 
 a quarter of the missions have some genuine options, whether to push forward or retreat, fight 
 the easy fight, or do the right thing, obey the cease fire or finish off an enemy cruiser after 
 a bitter skirmish where friends are lost. The very first real mission in the game did it better 
 than almost any other mission, and it was good. If the feature of decision making or going on real 
 missions instead of hunt this down or protect this missions had represented more of the game as 
 a whole, it would have been a brilliant move, the combat would have taken the back seat.
  
  However, it never really does. Every so often you get a good feel of it, mingled with receiving 
 orders and talking to nearby ships. Overall, though, missions with that sort of depth are spaced 
 out just enough so that you get to the next one before you get tired of waiting for it, and wishing 
 that every mission in the game were like that. At least they are actually there, it really keeps 
 the game just fresh enough, this side of mediocre.
  
  And that is really the sum of it all. Star Trek: Tactical Assault is all together just this side 
 of mediocre. There is enough solid game-play and fun to keep a fan of a fair action game entertained, 
 but it is not classic, or great. Often, missions have enough to them that they are re-playable, 
 out of the desire to just have fun or even to do better than before. There is actually a lot to 
 be said about how much the low load times and quick responses to everything you do improves the 
 experience of replaying parts of the game. Overall, it really is just this side of mediocre, genuinely 
 good, if lacking on the depth that you might really dream of, it's still delivers an enjoyable 
 experience. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ZZoMBiE13
Rating: 7.7
Date: Nov 1, 2006 3:44 pm PT
Review:  There have been a lot of licensed Star Trek games over the years, and many of them ended up with 
 less than desirable results. But Bethesda has crafted a game worthy of Trek's rabid fanbase. Star 
 Trek: Tactical Assault is set in the time of the Kirk movies. Where exactly is a little sketchy 
 since the crew from the movies are nowhere to be found in this game, save for a brief opening cinematic 
 featuring a Shatner voiceover. ST: TA puts you in the captain's seat at the very beginning of the 
 game. Fresh out of Starfleet Academy, you take your first command --A Frigate named Essex -- and 
 after an oh so brief training mission you are thrust into an escalating Klingon conflict. The story 
 is all done through log entries and crew comments during the course of the game. It's not going 
 to win any awards in the storytelling department, but this isn't Pheonix Wright we're talking about 
 here. The storyline is only there to facilitate the combat, and that is the game's true strength. 
 The controls can be input through the touch pad, button/D-pad presses, or a hybrid of the two. 
 The DS touch screen is used to good effect, but it's not required at all if you prefer a standard 
 controller setup. The overall layout is done pretty well and the design is intuitive for this kind 
 of sim combat. And make no mistake, this is a sim. It's not the arcade style action you find in 
 games like Star Trek: Encounters. The graphics in the DS version are functional. The PSP version 
 looks much nicer however. It's a sort of trade off really. The touchpad of the DS offers an extra 
 layer of control while the PSP offers you a much prettier package. It's all about what is important 
 to you as a gamer. Sound is standard and about what can be expected of Star Trek games in this 
 day and age. Phasers sound like phasters, Photon Torpedos sound like Photo Torpedos, etc etc. The 
 score is styled after the Jerry Goldsmith music the TV shows are known for, but by and large they 
 are forgettable tracks. The best thing about ST: TA is the combat. Battles are lengthy and intense, 
 sometimes pitting you against two or more opponents at once. Some chapters offer you a choice of 
 going forward into hostile territory or going back to the starbase if you are too damaged to fight. 
 Others will stretch you pretty thin as you have to defend one area and are then ordered to go fight 
 elsewhere regardless of your condition. As the name of the game would suggest, using tactics is 
 a big part of this game. Battles will go much better if you think through your actions instead 
 of diving headlong into battle over and over. Making sure your well shielded areas are facing your 
 opponent and your weak areas are protected, bring your weapons to bear just before they are fully 
 recharges so you can fire and move quickly, you get the idea. This game is not for everyone. But 
 if sim combat in a Trek sci-fi setting sounds good to you, then take a look at ST: TA. It may be 
 just what you've been looking for on whichever handheld you own. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
