-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Steel Horizon
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/ds/strategy/steelhorizon/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 Enjoyable storyline.
 Graphics aren't terrible.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 Puddle-deep strategy.
 Action sequences aren't implemented well.
 Processing delay on menu selections slows the game to a crawl.
 Cumbersome interface.
 Repetitive soundtrack and insubstantial sound effects.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Mar 28, 2007
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 3.6
Critic Score: 4.4, 17 Review (s)
User Score: 6.0, 33 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Konami
Genre: Wargame
Date: Mar 20, 2007
ESRB: Everyone 10+

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Floating adrift in the middle of the Pacific would rival the entertainment value of this strategy-less 
 strategy game. 

  Steel Horizon is a naval "strategy" game put out by Konami for the Nintendo DS. However, there 
 really isn't much strategy involved. In fact, there really isn't much of anything to this game 
 at all, as it's painfully straightforward, often unwieldy, and utterly dull. Other than a decent 
 storyline, fans of turn-based strategy games will find little to like, and much to loathe, about 
 Steel Horizon.  

          There's a massive disconnect between what's happening on the top screen and what's happening 
 on the touch screen in the battle sequences.     

  This may or may not come as a surprise to you, but Hitler was kind of insane. This and other history 
 lessons are du jour in Steel Horizon, which presents a fairly entertaining narrative on the occult 
 aspects of WWII that's comparable to anything you might find in an  Indiana Jones  movie or  Hellboy 
  comic. The story is noteworthy, even commendable, in that it doesn't devolve into the typical 
 American military brouhaha, as both German and Japanese soldiers are portrayed in an honorable 
 light altogether separate from the megalomaniacal urges displayed by higher-ups on all sides of 
 the conflict. It's a story worth telling, which is why it's a crying shame that few will be able 
 to withstand the gameplay long enough to see its end.  

  Steel Horizon's greatest flaw is that for a strategy game, it comes up woefully short on the strategy. 
 Aside from your one flagship that you begin the game with, you aren't able to upgrade your fleet, 
 so you'll deploy the same ships throughout the game without variation. Resources, which are used 
 to purchase ships, accrue by controlling shipyards scattered about the map, but these are never 
 particularly scarce, and you'll only come up wanting in the very beginning of each stage. Ships 
 come in 14 different flavors, but you'll pragmatically settle on three or four ships to flesh out 
 your fleet. This is, of course, unless you become saddled with ships you don't want, which frequently 
 occurs. Most missions will start you off with an entire host, including many ships you'd never 
 intentionally commission. Since you can't scuttle or dock them, your only recourse is to either 
 send them to the wolves, which is as much a hassle as it is a time sink, or ignore them completely. 

  This isn't to say you'll need all eight of those groups, though, as missions won't tax your frontal 
 lobe in the least. A balanced flotilla will sink anything you run up against, and the enemy artificial 
 intelligence isn't that good, so you'll typically always have the upper hand. In fact, the enemy 
 AI can be downright terrible at times, because it regularly avoids exploiting matchups and will 
 ignore an obvious threat in pursuit of a smaller, inoffensive bounty. There's also not much variety 
 to liven up the experience. By the fifth mission of going up against the same enemies with the 
 same outfit under the same terms for victory, you may get a bit antsy. By the 10th, you'll wonder 
 if the story's conclusion is really worth seeing this thing out. By the 15th, your eyes will take 
 on a zealous glint as you stubbornly and wantonly fling yourself into the next mission. And by 
 the 20th hour-long mission, you'll be bobbing your head, agreeing with the robed men that humanity 
 must die.  

  Perhaps to differentiate itself from the crowd, Konami thought it might be a good idea to incorporate 
 some button-mashing elements into the game's battle sequences. Instead of just quickly simming 
 each encounter, as those who play these types of turn-based strategy games are used to, you'll 
 instead have to endure a 60-second battle that essentially involves you cycling through your ships 
 and hitting the X button when prompted to fire your guns. You're technically also able to reposition 
 your ship, but it's difficult to judge where you're going on the map, and the encounter area is 
 too small and the battles are too short for it to matter much anyway.  

  Steel Horizon will occupy a significant amount of your time if you let it. Each of the 20 missions 
 average between 45 minutes to an hour, with the vast majority of that time being spent traversing 
 the open seas, sailing a few uneventful squares at a time. Granted, hypoxia-inducing action isn't 
 typically a part of the strategy-game formula, but the problem here is that it just takes too long 
 to do anything. This is mainly because there's some kind of lag or processing delay on all of your 
 actions, which becomes excessively irritating extremely fast. It also doesn't help that you'll 
 be digging through a good deal of menus, as everything from moving to attacking to altering the 
 orientation of your ship is buried somewhere. The DS's touch screen could have been used to greatly 
 streamline the process, but its functionality is limited to movement once you've indicated your 
 intent in a menu, and even then you can play the entire game without using it at all.  

  But wait, there's more. If you wanted to see what the game would be like without its one redeeming 
 quality, you can subject yourself to 21 skirmish missions that are by and large exactly like the 
 20 missions in the story mode, sans the story. If you and a like-minded individual who also has 
 a cart are so inclined, local multiplayer is also an option. With the way turns play out, it would 
 have been functionally possible to just pass the DS back and forth. And be sure to have a DS charger 
 handy, because as long and drawn out as the single-player missions are, multiplayer takes that 
 much longer. With both of these modes, it would have been nice to at least be able to use the flagship 
 you improved over the course of the single-player campaign. As it is, you just start out with generic 
 ships.  

          A sound strategy, captain!     

  Aside from a few nice-looking cinematics, Steel Horizon doesn't have a particularly remarkable 
 look. The overhead grid is pretty much what you'd expect from a strategy game. Though you'll play 
 in both the Pacific and Atlantic, environments in the battle sequences all look the same -- which 
 is to say, there's a lot of ocean and nothing else. There are a fair number of pixelated explosions 
 during these sequences, and you can see torpedoes skim through the water and airplanes in the sky. 
 It's a bit disappointing to see ships just sink instead of breaking apart or blowing up, though. 
 The presentation really takes a hit with the game's interface, which is sorely lacking. There are 
 no onscreen indicators of your ships' health other than ambiguous colors; when you move, you lose 
 sight of the global map, so it's easy to get disoriented; there's the slight delay discussed above; 
 and information on the various ships you had no intention of ever sailing is buried in menus and 
 often incomplete, among other things. Likewise, the game sounds really, really bad. A single maritime 
 march loops for the vast majority of the game, and combat noises have never sounded so passive. 

  The DS isn't exactly flush with good turn-based strategy games, and Steel Horizon certainly doesn't 
 come close to games like Advanced Wars or Age of Empires. The strategy is mindless and easy, the 
 interface is cumbersome and annoying, and the presentation is lacking. While the story isn't Pulitzer-worthy, 
 it's at least a lot better than what most games offer. But by no means should you play this game 
 just to check it out. That would be a very bad idea.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (5 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: trevorbeach
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 27, 2007 1:36 pm PT
Review:  I love this game it is a good game it is worth 30$ it is a good statigie game i can play it for 
 hours and hours until i can lay it down this is a really good game i think you should try this 
 game those reviews other people said are BS it is a awesome game. this game has awesome graphics 
 for a DS game. i have not played it for the PSP but i think it is the same so get it for either 
 system. SO go to the store and buy in now it is a amazing  
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DrCruel
Rating: 7.1
Date: Jul 10, 2007 10:59 pm PT
Review:  I had some familiarity with the bad reviews on this game before I bought it, but I must say I was 
 pleasantly surprised. There is a strategic as well as tactical component to this game, which is 
 about as good as any of the Japanese ship battle games I've played in the past. The game isn't 
 incredibly realistic, but it does catch the general idea of how naval warfare works (using the 
 old rock/paper scissors method) . Each type of ship has advantages and disadvantages.
  
  Mind you, the game has some faults. I'd like to have been able to keep ships from one battle to 
 teh next, but given how rapidly ships are constructed in teh game that would become unwieldly rather 
 quickly. One does get to keep a flagship from scenario to scenario, but advancement is more on 
 a strategic basis - award points can be spent on general upgrades to the capabilities of certain 
 types of ships, or they can be made cheaper to purchase, and so on. The game is also slow - which 
 is to say, much of your time is spent searching for enemy contacts, which is realistic but which 
 is also cumbersome for the typical DS player, who wants something more like a real-time experience. 
 The tactical battles are hard to control, and you only have a partial influence on events - battles 
 tend to be decided before contact, based on the types of ships you've purchased for your task forces 
 and how they match up with the enemy fleet.
  
  That said, for someone interested in a good ship game and who has the patience and aptitude for 
 setting up effective search patterns, this game is fun. The early scenarios I've found to be pretty 
 easy to beat, but it looks to be a long game and I expect the battles to get more difficult as 
 I progress. And I must admit that I rather like the pace - it's a nice break from thumb-killing 
 shooters and the like.
  
  It appears most critics like to make nasty puns more than give the game an honest chance. Plus, 
 as it's now $20 at GameStop, it's a good deal - much better than that Shogun mess or some other 
 truly wretched titles I've seen for the DS. It's admittedly not for everyone, but if you're a military 
 naval buff and are more of the patient, calculating sort, try it out. I'm glad I did. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BarbossaFan5
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jul 2, 2007 3:24 pm PT
Review:  I just bought Steel Horizon today. I wanted a new game and this is the best game I saw out of the 
 DS' sad game line up. The game takes a few minutes to get used to, but it isn't that bad. You play 
 as a captain of American forces during WWII and have to battle the Axis powers. The gameplay requires 
 and a little strategy and can get a little dull, but the battles are great! The graphics are standard 
 2-D during the regular mode, and pretty good 3-D graphics during the battle mode. I don't agree 
 with the Game Spot review at all. Even though the other ships aren't needed, they are fun to use 
 and see. There are also additional bonus levels, and this isn't a game you will get through quickly. 
 in the end, this game is a good choice to buy if it is $19.99 or less. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Haloexpert
Rating: 4.9
Date: May 31, 2007 1:15 pm PT
Review:  Pros: Decent graphics, animations, music, sound effects. Ability to save a game.
  
  Cons: Way too slow-paced for a DS game, tutorial can get complicated, illogical abbreviations for 
 some battleships. Turns? Are you kidding me?! Loading screens.
  
  When I first heard I would be reviewing Steel Horizon, it came to me as a blank canvas. I'd heard 
 nothing about it, nor had I even heard of it before. So before I played it, I wanted a little background 
 on it. I searched the most common game sites but came up pretty much empty handed. The only thing 
 I could find was a cinematic video, which really didn't give me much information at all. From what 
 I saw, it sounded like a tactical, fast-paced version of Battleship. Unfortunately, only half of 
 that rang true.
  
  I popped in the game, and went instantly to the Tutorial section. This was enough to give anyone 
 a headache. It didn't even seem like Konami wanted it to be reader-friendly. True, the text is 
 easy enough to read. But right when you think you understand one part of the tutorial, another 
 part comes along and you can get easily confused. There are just too many commands available to 
 you in the game. Adding to the confusion are some of the labels for the ships you command. Such 
 as CB for Battle Cruiser, or CV for Aircraft Carrier. Sure it's a minor thing, but when you 
 have 8 ships per unit (out of a total 14 available) it can get complicated.
  
  So enough with the tutorial, onto the actual gameplay. Each game is broken down into 20 missions, 
 with 14 unlockable ones available when you defeat key ships and capture special bases. You are 
 briefed of your mission, and sent out to destroy enemy ships. That's where it starts to go downhill, 
 however. Without exaggeration, I spent 5 straight minutes doing absolutely nothing but moving my 
 ships around in open water. When I finally did find enemy ships, the battle was over within 10-15 
 seconds. They are fun to watch, though. You can actually see the torpedoes fire from your ships, 
 and travel underwater until they explode upon impact at the enemy. If you need time to rest your 
 cramped hands and sore eyes, you can always save your current game and quit.
  
  If my some miracle you do find an enemy, attacking them is fairly straight forward. You move your 
 designated ships right next to them (each ship has a certain amount of moves) , and select Attack 
 from the menu. That's it. You'll be thankful you did attack, even if it was just one ship. Watching 
 attacks is the only action Steel Horizon has in it. There are no on the edge of your seat moments 
 at all, because winning a battle all has to do with the amount of ships you have. No matter what 
 kind they are, if you have 8 vs. 5, you will win. And this is only when you attack, because you're 
 the only one who really does. I could've stayed in my original position in the water for hours, 
 and have no one attack. Yet, when I move a few squares out, I'll stumble upon a fleet of 8 ships 
 ready for attack. The entire game is so scripted, there really is no strategy.
  
  This isn't to say Steel Horizon isn't complete crap. What is nice is that if you're being attacked, 
 you're not a sitting duck. You can try moving your guys out of harms way by tapping in the direction 
 you want on a radar-like screen. This will usually fail, though. The most you could hope for is 
 saving maybe 3 ships or so. To help keep the screen easy to read is instead of seeing each ship 
 individually, one single ship can represent 1-8 different ships. So you might be fooled into thinking 
 you're seeing just one enemy ship, when it could actually be 8. Unfortunately finding 8 enemy ships 
 is a rarity. Finding anyone at all is rare. Steel Horizon is a very slow paced game, with very 
 little constant action. Though, it is fairly tactical. I will give them that. The graphics are 
 decent as well. Although the music isn't annoying at first, it can get repetetive. But once you've 
 played the game for a while, it'll almost disappears.
  
  The story isn't half-bad either. It's ironic, because I just got done writing an article about 
 how all WWII games are the same. However, Steel Horizon is slightly different from most WWII games. 
 Both German and Japanese forces seem to be portrayed as both more respectable and honorable than 
 what we normally hear or read in todays history books. But I doubt you'd even finish the story, 
 because the game has no replayability at all. Nothing is there to bring you back to the game, unless 
 you're the kind of gamer who likes to finish a game just to say I beat that game. . Asside from 
 the campaign mode, you also have Skirmish as well. It's Konamis attempt at an instant-action mode, 
 but plays pretty much the same as the campaign. You're given goals, such as taking over ports, 
 which in the end you'll wonder why you even tried so hard to do so in the first place. There are 
 8 skirmish maps available from the get-go, and others are unlocked when you also unlock those bonus 
 campaign missions. The enemy A. I just isn't there at all in both campaign nor skirmish. If you 
 want a true challenge, the game does offer multiplayer. A total of 9 maps are available for you 
 and another friend to battle against one another. Unfortunately I didn't get the chance to try 
 out multiplayer, but I'm assuming this would only be the enjoyable aspect in Steel Horizon. It'd 
 be at a fast (er) pace, because the enemy would actually have a brain for once.
  
  In the end, Steel Horizon just isn't a game for the Nintendo DS. I'm used to games like Elite Beat 
 Agents, where you use the stylus for fast-paced actions. Steel Horizon consists of the two things 
 I dislike most in gaming. For one thing, it's too tactical. I like action and I like it fast. Secondly, 
 it consists of turns. I despise turn-based games. Throughout the game I was constantly being flashed 
 Player 2 Turn for about 5 seconds at a time, only to have Player 2 (computer) to do absolutely 
 nothing at all. Steel Horizon is also the first game I've played for the Nintendo DS that consists 
 of loading screens. That's right, loading screens. I was pretty surprised to see these, in a Nintendo 
 DS game at least. Sure if I was going to play multiplayer, then loading screens are acceptable. 
 But not in the main game itself. If you're a fan of slow paced and tactical games, I guess this 
 would be a game for you. It simply didn't do it for me. Gameplay: 5/10
  Graphics: 7.5/10
  Sound: 7.5/10
  Play Control: 5.5/10
  Enjoyment: 4/10
  
  Overall: 5/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: blitzraven01
Rating: 4.5
Date: Mar 31, 2007 2:45 pm PT
Review:  This game was a letdown. The only decent parts of Steel Horizon is the ok graphics, storyline, 
 and ship encounter battles. Each ship has it's own strengths and weakness. The rock, paper, and 
 scissors formula is added here. Battleships beat Cruisers, Cruisers beat Subs, and Subs beat Battleships. 
 So building fleets with just Battleships, Cruisers, ect.. is the best way to go. The enemy AI is 
 also bad. Most enemy fleets won't attack you even if your fleet is next to theirs. If they have 
 Cruisers and you have Battleships they know they can't win so they just end their turn next to 
 your Battleship fleet and allow you to destroy them when your turn comes up. The non-mission battles 
 have little to no reward for completing them. Meet the conditions for victory and the game just 
 takes you back to the main menu to select another mission. This is a shallow strategy game that 
 suffered from a lack of depth. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
