-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Sudoku Gridmaster
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/ds/puzzle/sudokugridmaster/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 Lots of puzzles at a discount price.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 Poor interface.
 Few options.
 No multiplayer.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Jun 23, 2006
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 6.2
Critic Score: 6.2, 17 Review (s)
User Score: 6.6, 93 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Nintendo
Developer: Hudson
Genre: Logic Puzzle
Date: Jun 26, 2006
ESRB: Everyone

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Sudoku Gridmaster's interface is lacking, making this a second-rate puzzle collection, at best. 
 

  Sudoku, the little number-grid puzzle that just won't quit, has been making inroads into the world 
 of handheld video games for a bit now, and already a firm trend has been established. Most of these 
 sudoku games are fine, but their interfaces often leave something to be desired. The one exception 
 so far has been Brain Age, which used its handwriting recognition and touch-screen technology to 
 make writing the numbers into the boxes very simple. Sudoku Gridmaster, also published by Nintendo, 
 would have been better off if it were just the Brain Age take on sudoku with more puzzles. Unfortunately, 
 this Hudson-developed puzzle game makes poor use of the Nintendo DS touch screen and falls flat 
 as a result.  

          You probably won't want to be the master of these grids.     

  Gridmaster is a very no-frills game. You fire it up, and you're dropped right into a menu that 
 lists multiple difficulties, with sudoku puzzles in each one. As you complete these puzzles, you 
 earn stars that can unlock bonus puzzles. You can also take four rank tests, which are puzzles 
 that must be completed within a specific time limit. Some sort of multiplayer time challenge or 
 even multiple profile support to allow for a scoreboard might have made the game slightly more 
 interesting. All in all, the game really only offers two mildly different ways to play sudoku, 
 which is unfortunate, because you're saddled with the same interface across the board.  

  The default way to put numbers into squares on a sudoku board is to tap the space on the board 
 you want to effect, then tap one of the nine numbers on a keypad on the right side of the screen. 
 There's a separate option that lets you tap squares, then write the number you want in a small 
 box, but we found the handwriting recognition to be pretty terrible, with the game frequently interpreting 
 fairly straight-looking 1's to be a three or a seven or something. Furthermore, the game doesn't 
 make any concessions for left-handed players, who will be continually reaching to the far side 
 of the screen to enter numbers. You can place up to four notes in each square, but with all the 
 tapping you'll have to do to enter notes, you're probably just better off making mental notes instead. 

  On the presentation side, the game offers three different music tracks, none of which are particularly 
 good. But the rest of the sound isn't anything special, so you could just turn it down. Graphically, 
 you've got three different backgrounds to choose from. Again, this variety doesn't really add anything 
 to the overall package.  

  With a fairly drab presentation and a subpar interface, Sudoku Gridmaster is a pretty weak package. 
 If you're looking for sudoku on the DS, get Brain Age instead. Sudoku isn't the main focus there, 
 but it's put together much, much better.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (9 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: BladeCUBED
Rating: 5
Date: Apr 8, 2008 1:31 pm PT
Review:  Sudoku is a new craze for those people who like Crosswords, but don't like using words in them. 
 The object of the game is obvious: Using the stylus, you must get one of each number from 1 through 
 9 in each 3x3 grid, each row, and each column, without repeating the same number. It is as simple 
 as it sounds, until you get into some of the harder puzzles. Or should I say, if.
  
  This game is incredibly boring. You will spend roughly 5-10 minutes, based on skill and difficulty, 
 solving a normal puzzle while the same elevator music loops continuously in the background. Once 
 you complete the puzzle, your time will be scored out of 4 stars -- less than 5 minutes results 
 in a 4/4, 5-10 minutes in a 3/4, and so on. Your best time is saved for each game, and your star 
 count is totaled and displayed on the top screen.
  
  There is no jazz, no 'zazz, no flavor. There is nothing in this game that makes it worth playing. 
 It would've been nice to compete online via Nintendo's WiFi connection. It would've been nice just 
 to have more than one song. Any variety, of any sort, would've been a welcomed improvement here.
 
  
  Do you know what happens when you reach a certain star limit? You unlock MORE puzzles, equally 
 as boring as the ones you played! And there are 300 puzzles in all!
  
  Sudoku: Gridmaster is simply a collection of Sudoku puzzles on a flash card. There is nothing here 
 that makes it stand out among the hundreds of online sites and newspapers that let you play Sudoku 
 for free. Go online, find a Sudoku website, and forget about this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MarkedByAshes
Rating: 7
Date: Jul 8, 2007 8:00 pm PT
Review:  I can't seem to figure out what everyone's complaining about with this title. It's the next best 
 thing to buying a sudoku book and pencil. What's wrong with the interface? I think it's the best 
 one out there. I've tried Sudoku Mania! and was sorely disappointed. Why? Because you get used 
 to the simplistic style of Sudoku Gridmaster. Of course there are not going to be multiple gameplay 
 options... this is a title for those of us who pick up the newspaper and do the puzzles after reading 
 the comics. No, the music isn't a Beethoven symphony, but you can turn it down if you prefer. What 
 would you expect from a crossword puzzle game? Or a word search puzzle for that matter? The long 
 and short come down to this: it's a great title for people who don't care about Brain Age and just 
 want to have Sudoku in the palm of their hand wherever they go. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Jukilum
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jun 19, 2007 5:54 pm PT
Review:  I was somewhat interested in the game before my mom got this, but the gameplay here has very much 
 increased my interest!
  
  The game is improved by adding ways to do things that on paper took forever. For example, you can 
 simply tap a number to see all that are on the board so far. A simple press of the R button shows 
 highlights all of the boxes that effect the currently selected box.
  The graphics aren't very important in a game like this, but if they had been thinking like that 
 during the development the game would seriously be lacking.
  The music is peaceful and changeable at any time.
  
  Overall I would say that if you don't 
 like things like sudoku, the DS version isn't worth it to you. Otherwise, this is a must have! 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: darquesyde
Rating: 6.4
Date: Sep 5, 2006 6:55 pm PT
Review:  It's hard to live up to Sudoku after Brain Age, but if you need more of a fix after attempting 
 the "limited" number of puzzles in Brain Age, Sudoku Gridmaster may help your addiction.
  
  There is a larger number of sudoku puzzles in Gridmaster, so that will keep you occupied for long 
 trips. The only really thing that is an improvement over Brain Age is the inclusion of the number 
 select option, versus writing it in. Sometimes writing it in isn't as fast as just pushing two 
 places on the screen. This is especially helpful in that it is often hard to write in '5' because 
 the Gridmaster software often confuses it with 9 or 3. While it's a simple game, there are a few 
 needed improvements. Three music modes (with no "off" option) is way too small, plus they are really 
 poor elevatior midi files. It was nice to be able to change the backgrounds, but some of that movement 
 can be distracting at times. Also, when you selected a screen or a puzzle, the load time was slow 
 - add to that the annoying "Start" at the beginning of the puzzle. There was also no real reward 
 system save for the access to additional puzzles and the medal levels. Maybe future games can have 
 unlockable music or backgrounds.
  
  In all, it's a good add-on if you are a fan, or have the need for more addictive puzzles - Just 
 don't get it at the full $20, get it on sell or used. Hopefully, there will be future Sudoku releases 
 that ties in good features of both this game and Brain Age. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cirillo1
Rating: 2.6
Date: Aug 13, 2006 7:39 am PT
Review:  I guess I should have listened to the reviews here on GameSpot and other sites. Having finished 
 the 100 or so puzzles in "Brain Age", I was looking for another fix for my Sudoku addiction. I 
 thought "Even with the interface differences in Sudoku Gridmaster, how bad could it be?" Well, 
 VERY bad it turns out.
  
  With the hi-res dual screens and a touch screen, the Nintendo DS represents the best platform for 
 this type of puzzle gaming. No other system - handheld, console or PC comes close. One would think 
 that Sudoku Gridmaster would expand upon the concept introduced in "Brain Age" and make it better 
 - more puzzles, statistics, strategies and puzzle solving aids. 
  
  Unfortunately, Sudoku Gridmaster misses the mark entirely. The interface is ugly and cartoon-like. 
 The handwriting recognition is inconsistent at best. And the "Keypad" style number entry, for both 
 numbers and notes, feels like painting a room through a keyhole. The worst aspect is the background 
 music, with your choice of three (3) songs - all of them sounding like Muzak versions of 1980's 
 pop and new age hits. Worst of all is that there's NO OPTION TO TURN OFF THE BACKGROUND MUSIC! 
 Sure, you could turn the DS volume down, but then you loose the audible feedback from sound effects 
 too.
  
  I can't help drawing comparisons to the Sudoku interface in "Brain Age." Amazingly, for a "mini-game" 
 that appears to be popped into the game as an afterthought, the Sudoku interface in "Brain Age" 
 is elegant in it's simplicity and presentation. A large, portrait-oriented puzzle grid, razor-sharp 
 sans-serif numbers, logical distinction between "givens" numbers using colors (Red for "givens" 
 - Black for your answers) , and straightforward entry (click to zoom, write the number) .
  
  With the "Brain Age" Sudoku getting is so "right" off the mark, it's amazing just how "wrong" Sudoku 
 Gridmaster has gone. Even more amazing is that Nintendo published this title (though it was developed 
 by "Hudson") . 
  
  Note to Nintendo: Want to create a brisk selling Soduko title for the DS? Take what you did in 
 "Brain Age," license more puzzles from Nikoli, add some new features (Statistics, solving aids, 
 strategies etc.) but DO NOT ALTER THE INTERFACE IN ANY SIGNIFICANT WAY. It's perfect! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Lennex2
Rating: 7.4
Date: Aug 7, 2006 9:08 pm PT
Review:  Ever since my fiance picked up brainage for her DS, I've been playing Sudoku non-stop. I got it 
 on my cell phone, book marked at work and on my PC at home, bought a puzzle book, and have even 
 clipped the daily puzzels out of the local paper every morning at the local coffee house.
  
  I'm addicited, and I needed more! I didn't have my own copy on DS, and I just had to complete 
 this circle.
  
  Sure the graphics are crap (it's a puzzle!) but hey, we don't need fancy 3d graphics to play sudoku.... but 
 the graphical presentation is **** and compared to the Brainage version, it definatly is lacking.
 
  
  The music is garbage....... the 'sound effects' are annoying... DS Brainage ones up this... by having 
 no music, and better 'effects'
  
  The gameplay is standard sudoku, but the num pad is lame, the writing pad dosn't work, and how 
 the 'possible #' box works is a time waster.
  
  Don't get me wrong, the puzzles are feeding my need for more Sudoku, but the time it takes to get 
 through them because of the incredibly lame interface. I'll probably play through all the puzzles, 
 but will get my own copy of Brainage to get the best Sudoku experiance on the DS.
  
  Sudoku Gridmasters is supposed to focus on the sudoku experiance, and be a game dedicated to this 
 great puzzle... but when a game like 'Brain Age' that focuses more on math puzzels, and problem 
 solving has a better Sudoku interface... there is a huge problem!!!!
  
  Still loving it though..... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DidiCardoso
Rating: 6.3
Date: Jul 16, 2006 7:31 pm PT
Review:  I never really had any interest in Sudoku until I learned how to solve the puzzles from the tutorials 
 that came with Brain Age. More recently, I would even skip my brain training because I would be 
 playing Sudoku and forget the daily exercises. Needless to say, Sudoku Gridmaster came as a really 
 nice surprise.
  
  It took me a bit to adjust to the controls since I was very comfortable with the ones in Brain 
 Age, but after a few puzzles it wasn't so awkward anymore.
  
  For those (like me until a couple of months ago) who aren't familiar with Sudoku, the rules are 
 fairly simple. You must insert the numbers from 1 to 9 in each of the nine 3x3 squares in the grid, 
 without repeating them in any row or column. By inputting possible answers into each square, you 
 begin an elimination process that leads to finding the correct numbers for each grid cell, until 
 you fill up the grid with all the numbers.
  
  Sudoku Gridmaster lets you use the stylus to either input the numbers in a keypad or by writing 
 them down, although (and opposite of Brain Age) I prefer using the keypad to the writing. 
  
  In the Easy puzzles, the wrong numbers will show in red squares, which makes it so much easier 
 to find a mistake, but this feature isn't available in the other difficulty levels. You only know 
 you made a mistake once you fill up the grid and the "Incorrect" text pops on the screen. It's 
 tough to backtrack and find the error, so your best bet is to start over.
  
  Using the left or right trigger buttons will bring up the Guidelines, which highlight a 3x3 square 
 and respective row and column starting at the square you have selected. The Guidelines are a really 
 convenient tool to use for spotting which numbers are in use in those squares and filling in the 
 blanks quicker.
  
  Tapping any number twice will highlight all the same numbers on the grid. When all nine numbers 
 have been placed on the grid, that number will be darkened on the keypad.
  
  You can access the Options menu at any time while solving a puzzle to change your background, music 
 or input style (writing or keypad) . You can also erase all puzzle data, restart the puzzle or go 
 back to the main menu from here.
  
  Solving puzzles awards you with stars. On Easy difficulty, if you finish a puzzle under 5 minutes, 
 you get four stars. Finish it in less than 10 minutes, 3 stars. Finish it under 15 minutes, 2 stars. 
 I'm not sure what's the time limit for a single star, fortunately I haven't gotten there yet. In 
 higher difficulties, you are awarded more stars. In Normal difficulty, the maximum is 5 stars if 
 you complete a puzzle in less than 15 minutes, and in Hard difficulty you can gain up to 6 stars.
 
  
  Accumulating stars unlocks more puzzles (there are about 400 of them) as well as Rank Tests. A 
 Rank Test is a timed challenge where you must solve the puzzle before the timer runs out. If you 
 fail a Rank Test, you can take it again, but the puzzle won't be the same.
  
  A few things could have use some tweaking. For example, you can only insert up to four temporary 
 numbers in a cell, when sometimes you could use another number in there. The Undo button only works 
 for permanent numbers and not temporary numbers, and I would have really liked a single button 
 to erase all temporary numbers at once from a cell. 
  
  There is also room for a single saved "in progress" puzzle, so if you want to start another one 
 in a different difficulty level, you must abandon whatever work in progress you may have.
  
  These minor things aside, Sudoku Gridmaster is a great portable brainteaser, perfect for the 
 geeky side in all of us, and all you need to do is know how to count to nine. Best of all, this 
 title is part of the Touch Generations line of games, which makes it very user friendly for beginners 
 and accessible in terms of price ($19.99) .
  
  Once you try Gridmaster, the daily Sudoku puzzle in the newspaper will become obsolete.
  
  
 Review text part of Grrlgamer. com. Full review, screenshots and some unloackables at: http://www. grrlgamer. com/review. php? g=sudokugridmaster 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: RedPanther95
Rating: 5.2
Date: Jul 5, 2006 7:58 am PT
Review:  This is one of the worst games I have for the DS. With a few modes. NO MULTIPLAYER. Which is not 
 like Nintendo is it? This game is only 20 bucks but save your 20 bucks andd buy 10 gallons of gas. 
 This is just a bad excuse for a game. I might be a little harsh on this game. But hey!
  
  Gameplay: All there is is Sudoku. Sudoku is hard and fun but when you can't figure anything out 
 it is boring that is why this game isn't gonna FLY off store shevels it might fall off store shevles 
 do to a large amount of dust. No multiplayer either you and your oppent could race to finish a 
 puzzle or something.
  
  Graphics: Just not all that exciting. 
  
  Sound: Like graphics the sound is just STUPID. with a ping and a pong.
  
  Value: Not alike 
 this game's cousins Big Brain Acadamey and Brain Age Train Your Brain in Minutes a Day. While the 
 handwriting recognition is better than Brain Age Train Your Brain In Minutes A Day's. But this 
 game is just sudoku.
  
  Tilt: I HATE THIS GAME! Good day, lad. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: the_one_finn
Rating: 6.7
Date: Jul 4, 2006 1:26 am PT
Review:  Sudoku being a craze I got into no thanks to Brain Age, I figured this was a no-brainer buy, being 
 a cheap $20 game of nothing but sudoku. Well.. it does achieve that at least, a budget game of 
 nothing but sudoku puzzles, so if you like sudoku and have a DS, then go for it... BUT..
  
  For one, the interface is ... redundant (?) .. there's really no need for the top screen at all for 
 instance, its just a double of the input screen. You just use the stylus to select the box you 
 want to put the number in, then tap the number, simplle (there's also apparently a handwriting 
 mode, but personally I haven't tried that, as the novelty of sudoku just doesn't call for it) . 
 If you press one of the triggers it highlights the row, column, and 'box' that you're in, but honestly 
 I dont see how that really 'helps' you solve anything (or is that just me) .
  
  Music.. um.. yeah. I tend to like game soundtracks, and while Sudoku: Gridmaster's music is (I guess) 
 supposed to be soothing, it drives me up the wall, and unless I missed something, options do NOT 
 let you turn it off, you have to resort to a big wooping 3 choices of music, or use the volume 
 control on the DS itself to mute it.
  
  Multiplay: none, granted, Sudoku isn't a multiplayer game to begin with, but even Brain Age's enclosed 
 nugget of joy compared you to other players, no such luck on this one.
  
  All in all, if you're looking for an assortment of sudoku puzzles (and you have a DS) , then this 
 is ok, but quite frankly I like the collection (and interface) of the puzzles in Brain Age much 
 better.
  
  
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
