-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Suikoden Tierkreis
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/ds/rpg/gensousuikodentierkreis/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 Fantastic visuals and music.
 Streamlined game structure makes 40-plus hours feel brisk.
 It's fun to look for the 108 possible recruits.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 Main character's voice acting is atrocious.
 Wi-Fi functionality not available until well into the adventure.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Mar 20, 2009
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 7.5
Critic Score: 7.7, 7 Review (s)
User Score: 8.7, 153 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Konami
Genre: Role-Playing
Date: Mar 17, 2009
ESRB: Everyone 10+

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
While it abandons the the long-running story that defines the franchise, Suikoden Tierkreis offers 
 a brisk, beautiful role-playing experience. 

  The long-running Suikoden franchise has amassed a cult following with its continuous story and 
 premise of recruiting up to 108 characters with whom to wage war. Suikoden Tierkreis, the first 
 Suikoden game for the Nintendo DS, dares to break away from this canon, eschewing the prequel and 
 side-story motifs for an entirely new collection of characters and worlds. To write off the game 
 because of this, though, would be a mistake. Suikoden Tierkreis overcomes a somewhat lukewarm first 
 impression to end up yet another strong role-playing experience on the DS.        var shown = false; 
 function syncRoadBlock (adTag) { if ( shown ) return; 

  In fact, the dialogue is serving after serving of empty calories in the form of pointless replies 
 and attempts at witty repartee. Despite this, the events that unfold throughout the story are interesting. 
 Masses of land are appearing out of thin air, displacing what used to occupy that same space. Certain 
 factions who are fighting for or against the One King's order aren't always transparent, leaving 
 you to occasionally wonder what their true motivations are. While not entirely original for the 
 role-playing genre, it still manages to carry an air of intrigue.  

  The battle system is a familiar turn-based, menu-driven affair requiring little tactical thought, 
 since even many of the bosses do no more than hit you hard and fast. There's a lack of emphasis 
 on status effects (blindness and paralysis, for instance) and other such subtleties that you'd 
 find in similar games. There are combo attacks that are available only when certain members are 
 grouped together in your party, but even those are easily abused with little penalty or tactical 
 consideration.  

  Whatever tactical considerations are lost during battles themselves, at least you're required to 
 make them beforehand. You and your companions engage in a handful of sieges throughout the game, 
 requiring you to put together two or more teams that will each take on a different attack angle. 
 You'll have to consider the special abilities and weapons that make up each party -- remembering 
 to bring healers, equipping the most appropriate special abilities (you're limited to four per 
 character) , and balancing brute force with elemental attacks and defensive buffs.  

           You won't do much walking around town, at least not in the traditional sense.      

 
  You may be initially turned off by the travel system in Tierkreis, which limits your exploration 
 to dungeons and towns that you travel between simply clicking their icons on the map. Even walking 
 to key areas of a town is done via menus. This is all an effort to streamline what could grow monotonous 
 throughout a long adventure, which is a fair sacrifice considering how many characters you can 
 recruit. The story often forces the use of certain party members for the sake of plot progression, 
 but it has the side effect of ensuring that you don't "forget" to level up underused characters. 
 Because these missions have you carrying along only one or two mandatory characters at a time, 
 you're not completely limited in terms of whom you bring with you in your party of four. Underleveled 
 characters can also catch up remarkably quickly, and it's a safe bet that a good number of the 
 characters will be fairly balanced by game's end.  

  Missions and sieges can be relatively short -- sometimes requiring only two battles and an intense 
 boss fight -- so you feel as if you've accomplished a lot in a short period of time. Later in the 
 game, new characters seem to be joining your cause left and right. Admittedly, the experience is 
 cheapened at times. Some join after you've endured only a little plot progression, without combat 
 or travel. You'll also experience false starts, where your characters will express excitement over 
 an upcoming siege -- for which you'll even go so far as to form your parties -- that ends up being 
 nothing more than plot exposition. The game can feel a little easy as a result. Still, it's a welcome 
 change from incessant level- or cash-grinding.  

  If nothing else, the presentation makes it easy to forget about whatever qualms you might have 
 with the lack of difficulty or the annoying dialogue. With polygonal characters atop prerendered 
 backgrounds, Tierkreis often looks stunning. Pockets of shadow and light appropriately accentuate 
 people as they walk by. Bricks, grass, and streams are sharply rendered and pop off the screen. 
 You're treated to a variety of vistas both mundane and exotic, from Middle Eastern influences to 
 enormous, vividly colored seashell structures. Important plot points are emphasized with well-animated 
 cutscenes, which are marred only by some noticeable compression artifacts.  

  Tierkreis' inconsistent voice acting kicks in during these scenes, as well as in key game-engine 
 cutscenes, and will make you squirm at the main character even more. His voice actor sounds like 
 he's trying to speed-read every line, and other characters are either monotone or too over the 
 top. The thuds, slashes, and spell effects of battle, on the other hand, pack a nice punch. Tierkreis' 
 music is perhaps the strongest aspect of the presentation. Both the composition and the instrumentation 
 are exquisite and varied, ranging from heroic, powerful violin solos to delicate, entrancing string 
 and woodwind arrangements.  

           Even simple forests pop off the screen with Tierkreis' effective use of light and shadow. 

  Konami tops the experience off by giving you the option to play the game with only the touch screen, 
 which works well. It's also compatible with the Nintendo Wi-Fi Connection, through which you can 
 send and receive characters for certain missions. It's an admirable effort toward making Tierkreis 
 a strong community experience, but the one caveat is that online communication isn't available 
 from the get-go. In fact, you need to find a special character that gives you this access. Instead 
 of going for potentially tens of hours on end before gaining the ability to connect, it would have 
 been much simpler to have your main quest-handler offer you that ability.  

  Despite its Wi-Fi gaffe, its deviation from the Suikoden canon, and its lack of innovation, Suikoden 
 Tierkreis doesn't seem as if it should be all that special of an experience. Yet, as you come to 
 grips with whatever small grievances you start out with, there's a good chance you'll have a great 
 experience by the time you complete its 40-hour-plus adventure. With a brisk pace that almost guarantees 
 you will never get bogged down and wonderful aesthetics, Suikoden Tierkreis is a great introduction 
 to the franchise for Nintendo DS owners.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (9 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: naruto821220
Rating: 1
Date: Apr 15, 2009 1:15 pm PT
Review:  First and most important failure, is the development of the main character. In all previous series, 
 the main character is one of extraordinary, having an ability that is different from all others, 
 better known as one of 27 True Runes. This time, other than being the one carrying the movement 
 of the storyline, there is basically nothing special about him.
  
  Secondly, the missing of the duel battles and war battles. These two factors played a big role in 
 all past Suikoden series. Not having them, totally destroying the game-play as they are what differentiate 
 battles that happen only once or twice in the game from normal battles .
  
  Thirdly, the limitation of abilities. Another fun factor of previous Suikoden is the freedom of 
 abilities, by equipping runes. This time round, although there is still a choice of twelve, the 
 feeling of freedom is loss. 
  
  Lastly, there are also minor factors that cause the disappointment of the game, the missing of 
 mini-games. Though having tried using the quest game to make up for the mini-games, it did not 
 work. Rather having a chance to escape from game, the quest game makes the game more tiring.
  
  With so many IMPORTANT factors gone, one can hardly call this a Suikoden game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: eqq0
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 30, 2009 9:26 pm PT
Review:  This is well worth spending your hard earned 30 bucks or so on. I mean it has a decent price tag 
 and its a unique RPG in itself. Regardless of being a fan of the series, this puppy brings out 
 a lot of old school RPG vibes. I can easily compare the voice acting and story board to the old 
 LUNAR series. It all brings tears to my eyes as I recall the days of old. If you have 30 bucks 
 to blow, buy this game. It isn't your classic rune playing suikoden feel, but it's respectable 
 none of the less.
  
  However, for the negative... There are two things that just don't sit well with me about this game. 
 If you can get past these two things like me, you'll love this title. The first problem is the 
 3d character sprites. It reminds of my final fantasy: crystal chronicles on the game cube. I just 
 hate the look of it and it seems cheesy. Although the textures and landscapes look gorgeous, the 
 sprites are horrendous. The next part of this game that kills me, is the fact that there is no 
 free roam. It's basically choose the area of town you wish to show up in, and boom you're on one 
 screen the whole time... It's very disappointing. I feel most RPGS shouldn't have this final fantasy 
 tactics type vibe... Takes away from the "Adventure." 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MAKOVIRUS
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 23, 2009 12:20 pm PT
Review:  suikoden is an excellent game made by the masters of ff remakes so you if you like RPG suikoden 
 is for you there is everytime something new to do a lot of carachters to recruit and big and really 
 good story. The story is a critic to church and politics its great and immersive , the only problems 
 with the game is the difficulty its to easy to beat anyone in the game without using magic, to 
 make the rooster you need to travel to an inn because in your castle the one that is supossed to 
 do that stop from doing it, but this little problems are nothing compared to the voiceover the 
 cinemas and grafics and if you buy a weapon yaou can see it in the characters, trying to recruit 
 all of the characters is no easy task there are some that you need to move from one city to other 
 talking to everyone to get them. for me this is an excellent game that you need to have. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: poohbear12
Rating: 8.5
Date: Mar 23, 2009 8:51 pm PT
Review:  The Good:
  Nice graphics, streamlined battles, minimal loadtimes, interesting story.
  
  The Bad:
  Random encounters. A bit too easy. Very linear progression.
  -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
  
  For the most part, the official GS review is on the mark this time around. This game starts out 
 with a few easy battles that consist of you hitting the 'attack' button repeatedly for your characters, 
 and watching them hit. The story seems trite and dull.
  
  However, after a few hours, the story takes shape, the world opens up somewhat, and you find yourself 
 sucked into the happenings around you.
  
  Battles are short, luckily, so there's little annoyance at the fact that random encounters are 
 frequent as you make your way around the realm or through a dungeon. Luckily the flee button works 
 quite well if you don't feel like playing through yet another slug encounter. However, it still 
 leaves open the option for grinders to spend hours growing their characters if they wish. The difficulty 
 of the story-battles are very nicely adjusted to fit your current level as you get to them without 
 requiring much griding beforehand.
  
  Speaking of which, the story is absorbing and interesting, if you give it a chance to develop and 
 can stand the mostly terrible voice-acting (mostly from your main character; some of the others 
 are OK) . 
  
  There are lots of cutscenes done in full motion video, which serves to make this game feel like 
 a true console experience. I was surprised at how much video and in-game story-driving activity 
 takes place; in the first two hours, more than half was spent watching stuff happen as opposed 
 to grinding away. 
  
  So, aside from the tons of reading early on, random encounters, and a very linear story, this one 
 is still worth playing once you get going.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: xFaberDrivex
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 23, 2009 6:54 pm PT
Review:  The Good
  - Graphics well done for the ds
  - Music is catchy at times
  - Voice acting is done beautifully
  
  The Bad
  - No wars, duels, not many boss fights the 
 other Suikoden series had to offer
  - Main characters voice is too fast
  -" We never know until we try" gets a bit annoying
  - Battles will come up frequently so be ready 
 to battle
  - MP points  =O what happened to the step away from these kinds of games?
  - Instead of potch you have to trade in items from battles in order to get them
  - No way of 
 knowing if armor is good or bad
  
  
  As you begin playing the game you will encounter the name selection screen and if you are a Suikoden 
 fan you will easily recognize many of the music in the game. Though there are no duels or wars 
 in this game is still brings a bit of that Suikoden feel in you. Don't worry fans, you still get 
 your own castle and get to name both your castle and company. There always is the challenge of 
 collecting all 108 stars of destiny.
  
  Many things you could do during the game include doing mini sidequests or if you have wifi you 
 are able to send your character to someone over seas and have them finish it for you.
  
  The story line is simple just as the other series. There's betrayal. Two armies fighting. The main 
 plot is an organization trying to take over the world by "predetermining" things in the future. 
 Let's just leave it at that.
  
  Overall this game is well worth $50 you would be delighted after playing it. One day this could 
 be a game that is worth $200 on eBay. Final Fantasy players I suggest this to you as well.
  
  Graphics - 9.0
  Gameplay - 8.5
  Music - 9.0
  Voice Acting - 9.5
  Story Line - 9.5
 
  
  OVERALL - 9.0 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Leventon
Rating: 8
Date: Mar 20, 2009 5:37 am PT
Review:  This is great RPG and if you like rpg-s get it. But this game is Suikoden in name and few similarities. 
 If you wont real Suikoden then play one of the old ones. Suikoden Tierkreis will not give you that 
 Suikoden feeling that you get from previous Suikoden games. 
  Game has good easy to get story at start but as you go it gets more complicated and interesting. 
 Battles in game are ether easy or hard depending how well prepared you are. Characters are well 
 made but voices are really bad and cud be far bather done. Music in game is pretty good and I like 
 it. Gamplay is superb something jast makes you wont to play more and lite voice in your head goes 
 one more minute, one more battle, jast until next event simply once you start its hard to let go. 
 This is great way to kill time while we wait four Suikoden 6. But still as I mentioned before this 
 is great rpg only not great Suikoden rpg. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 6thDjinn
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 20, 2009 12:14 am PT
Review:  As far as I'm conserned this is indeed a suikoden title, and lives up to its name. Not only that, 
 but it provides a significant amount of new material and leaves the series with a lot of new options 
 to explore. Lets just do this as a list.
  
  Good Characters - I really found most of the charecters very entertaining, and likable. Their were 
 a few I was very iffy about but pleasantly surprised by the way their stories and personalities 
 played out. The new races in the game were very cool, and I think the porpo-kin may just pull all 
 the slack off the beavers *shifty smile* And theirs a good handful that I would love to see in 
 future installments.
  
  WiFi - Okay, I'll be honest. GREAT IDEA. I just don't think it lived up to its potential. Maybe 
 I just haven't gotten to see it all at this point, but if anything changes I'll retract this statement.
 
  
  Graphics/Cutsceen - They were all very well done, I didn't think I'd like the character models, 
 but the little chibi pixels were charming, and pleasantly detailed. The cut scenes were stunning, 
 I was sitting with my gaming group playing tonight and they were all very awed by the graphics, 
 I may have even recruited a few final fantasy fans away Plus super pretty environments.
  
  Battle System/General Gameplay - Alright, no runes, the weapon system was changed up, no skill 
 trainer. Eh if it was in the main suikoden world, I'd have been upset. But new playing field, and 
 it worked very well for the game. It worked for the game. I'm a diehard for this series and a huge 
 combat fan, so all the blow hards that are gonna cry about the lack of runes etc, I guess you need 
 to excepts a little change now and then eh? The controls were very easy, both with buttons and 
 the stylis (sp?) , Easy to play one handed, for those of us who can't devote two hands to the DS 
 lol.
  
  All and all. It's definitely worth a play through if not a buy (don't be a loser, support the best 
 rpg out their, c'mon!) . I'm not sure how this holds up as a starting game for the series, I could 
 see it being almost overwelming to start with this and then play five. Maybe. Stand a lone, fan 
 boyism aside. It's a solid rpg, with a fair amount to play with. Check it out if your into rpgs, 
 or you know have good tastes in games 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Psycho3441
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 18, 2009 8:29 pm PT
Review:  It's true that this game is quite a bit different from the other Suikoden games that we all know 
 and love. The battle system is much more like an old fashioned Final Fantasy, then a Suikoden, 
 this is not a bad thing though, battles are very entertaining and have just the right amount of 
 challenge. Graphics on the DS are very good, I am extremely pleased with the time they took when 
 designing the graphics for this game. Other people have mentioned (and they are right) that sometimes 
 the VO talking is speed-talkish. This is a fact, but it in no way takes away from the overall shine 
 of the Cutscenes and Conversations. You can of course expect a great spread of interesting characters 
 as you meet all 108 of the cast and the multiplayer aspects leave nothing to be desired. If you 
 are a fan of Suikoden, or of RPGs in general, I highly recommend this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mazongo
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 17, 2009 5:02 pm PT
Review:  After playing Suikoden Tierkreis for quite some time ( which is the reason i flunked in some exams) 
 I can tell you right from the start that this a a great rpg. If you like rpgs then this is most 
 likely a must buy for you. 
  
  Gameplay 8.0
  The story begins with a beautiful anime voice acted cutscene that shows you a final battle with 
 an apparently fearsome foe. Right after that you appear in a little village with a quest of killing 
 some monsters east of your town. I could tell you more but its really complicated and i don't want 
 to spoil anything but i can tell you that there is an interesting story in this game that will 
 make you play just to see what happens next.
  
  As this is an rpg you can expect things like gaining exp to level up and plenty of random battles 
 that can be a pain sometimes (that comes from an avid rpg gamer) but at least theres a decent amount 
 of space between battles and not an encounter every 2 steps. Battles are fast paced which is good 
 but nothing really new about it. Now what i mean about that is that is the same attack and heal 
 system that has been used in many other rpgs. Still you get some stars attacks, which you gain as 
 you progress in the story, auto attack option and front and back row formations. Everything is 
 satisfying but don't expect something really new about gameplay. You can also buy equipment in 
 all towns but not at a cheap price, especially since you don't gain money from monsters, but you 
 gain items that you can sell. You can also buy some stuff in one town and sell it at a higher price 
 in another.
  
  As you progress through the story you can come up having up to 108 characters. Yup thats a hell 
 of a lot of people crammed in one game. Some will join you as you go along and others with side 
 quests.
  
  Graphics 9.0 
  In the graphics department this one is a pretty looking ds game. Sprites look good, environments 
 are hand made and some nice voice acted cutscenes every now and then that really add up to the 
 experience. 
  
  Sound 8.5
  Even though music in this game is not great you still get plenty of VO of great quality used very 
 often. Theres more VO in this game than in the last 10 ds games i have played.
  
  I only had 2 minor annoyances that i think can be corrected in the future. For starters when you 
 buy equipment you cant see which one is better than the other in an easy way. You have to see how 
 much your equipment increases your stats and then go see how much it increases the one you want 
 to buy. And also a map could be useful because in bigger dungeons you walk for a while just to 
 find yourself with a dead end. If there was at least a chest to let me feel good about the walk 
 i could live with it but walking like crazy to find nothing sucks.
  
  Replay Value 9.0
  In the replay value department theres plenty for a while. You get a 30+ hour adventure with many 
 side quests and a massive 108 characters to find. Also there a online component in which you can 
 trade characters, get quests, nice equips and more. Its very packed for a rpg thats for sure. 
 
  
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
