-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Summon Night: Twin Age
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/ds/rpg/summonnighttwinedge/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 Simple but charming gameplay.
 Skill trees and crafting add depth.
 Cute presentation.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 A few AI and targeting issues.
 Exploration can get monotonous.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Jun  5, 2008
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 7
Critic Score: 7.4, 22 Review (s)
User Score: 7.9, 219 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Atlus Co.
Developer: Flight-Plan
Genre: Role-Playing
Date: Jun 3, 2008
ESRB: Everyone 10+

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Twin Age offers a cozy and pleasantly familiar dungeon-crawling experience. 

  Flight-Plan's Summon Night: Twin Age, the second Nintendo DS game in the series, is yet another 
 lighthearted action role-playing game with adorable sprites. It shares some similarities with its 
 predecessors, specifically the inclusion of a crafting system in addition to dungeon exploration, 
 but differentiates itself by abandoning the franchise's random battles and side-scrolling view. 
 It's a cute candidate for those looking to expand their dungeon-crawler library, but it's also 
 unremarkable in every way.  

           You'll use the handy command palette to pummel monsters in real time.      

   

 
  Twin Age takes place in the world of Clardona, where two races -- the humans and the Kascuza -- are 
 engaged in a moral war over the spirits of nature. The Kascuza desire to work with the spirits, 
 while the humans long to control them by enslaving summon beasts. Though the war has engulfed most 
 of Clardona it has spared the small isle of Jarazi, where the game's two heroes, Aldo and Reiha, 
 one day witness the spirits succumb to a darkness that causes them to go haywire. The duo embarks 
 on a quest to save the world from the rampaging spirits, eventually journeying to the land of the 
 humans to solve the mystery of the taint. You'll interpret the game's events through the eyes of 
 either Reiha or Aldo, and along the way you're joined by six nonplayable allies who operate as 
 supporting characters, lending their special talents to your cause.  

  The bulk of the gameplay occurs in dungeons, where you'll guide Aldo, Reiha, and one active supporting 
 character through the map via full stylus control, defeating foes in real time as you work your 
 way to the standard boss. Despite choosing a main character, you're completely free to switch between 
 the pair in the midst of battle, using Aldo's devastating melee attacks or Reiha's powerful spells 
 at a whim. The skill options are numerous and provide some nice variety; for example, you can blast 
 off fireballs as Reiha by tapping a foe, or you can form a wall of lightning by drawing a line 
 through your intended victims. Conversely, you may attack multiple enemies as Aldo by tapping more 
 than one foe, or you can slice them in a line by slashing through several targets. Aldo is also 
 able to switch weapons during combat, and both characters can use items to restore health and spirit 
 points needed to perform skills. Two convenient features make exploring dungeons less of a chore: 
 an autorun option and a fully customizable command palette that lines both sides of the screen 
 to prevent you from constantly shuffling between menus to select attacks. To perform a skill, you 
 just tap its slot on the command palette and then select a target.  

  That's not to say the system is perfect. Healing becomes cumbersome when allies and foes are bunched 
 up together, because you still have to tap an ally to cast the spell, and it's easy for an enemy 
 to hide your ally from view. You'll encounter the same problem when allies attack gigantic bosses 
 from behind, because the large, creatively designed bosses easily overshadow your 2D sprites. The 
 targeting system's greatest annoyance, however, is that you're forced to manually select a target 
 to attack with a skill, even if you intend to use a skill against a foe you've already targeted. 
 Hence, you can waste time retargeting the same bad guys as you switch between skills, although 
 you can hold down a directional button and select a spell to "lock" it for repeated casts, which 
 is helpful.  

  Combat in Twin Age can get overwhelming when you're faced with strong enemies, but you have allies 
 watching your back -- usually. The AI that directs friendly characters to assist you when you're 
 in trouble is just as likely to stand them in a corner with their backs to the action as you're 
 being mauled. Occasionally your AI buddies get stuck around corners or continuously run into objects 
 until you backtrack to retrieve them. The same problem occurs for creatures that you create to 
 join the fray, but it isn't too inconvenient given that they die quickly. While there are some 
 obvious AI slipups, your allies will take care of themselves for the most part, attacking and using 
 healing items at their own discretion unless you choose to prevent them from doing so.  

  Twin Age would be quite a shallow experience without its skill trees and crafting system. There 
 is a skill tree available for both Aldo and Reiha, complete with 11 ranks of skills for you to 
 work your way through to eventually unlock special attacks for each character. You acquire skill 
 points by leveling or completing events and then use these points to purchase new skills or increase 
 your proficiency in ones you already know. The crafting system, which is a popular inclusion in 
 previous Summon Night titles, adds some much-needed depth by letting you create your own weapons, 
 armor, and items from materials you've collected from dungeons. The process is significantly cheaper 
 than outright purchasing goods and encourages you to increase the potency of your weapons by adding 
 item effects to them, which is fun if you're into donning the most fashionable weaponry.  

           Skill trees allow you to learn new attacks or increase the power of old ones.      

 
  The presentation is in line with previous games in the series, retaining the franchise's adorable, 
 detailed sprites and 2D world. The dungeons aren't visually enticing, but they're colorful and 
 varied enough to make for decent exploration, with some featuring a small level of interaction 
 by boasting breakable objects (crates, pots, and so on) and environmental effects like quicksand 
 or swampy, poisonous marshes. The game includes the standard anime-style cutscenes and does have 
 some minimal voice-acting that usually culminates in a quick gasp, character quip, or "boo!" Its 
 adequate yet unremarkable background tunes also pair well with its gameplay.  

  Twin Age's only real problem is that its 20-hour adventure is undeniably cozy -- and little else. 
 Nothing it contains could be considered revolutionary, and its plot and gameplay mechanics, though 
 adequate for the job, are hardly seductive. Still, if you're looking for something that feels familiar 
 rather than fresh, you should get your money's worth in this decent dungeon crawler.  

      
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (12 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: Arcsodeus
Rating: 8
Date: Apr 5, 2009 9:27 pm PT
Review:  Well here we got another Summon Night game called Twin Age. You can play as either Reiha, a human 
 girl with great magic attacks but rather frail when fighting normally, or Aldo a male Summon Beast 
 who's great with physical attacks but no Magic Attacks as well as NPC that will follow you. The 
 story tells us about the series of disturbance that caused by the spirits in the world of Clardona. 
 You get to explore dungeons that crawling with swarm and hordes of monsters, spirits and some nasty, 
 tough bosses.
  
  For the graphics, i'm gonna say that this game is pretty simple, but with cute sprites, and some 
 nice design. Although the stage design can be quite the same. But this game is pretty good...
 
  
  For the sound, i'll say pretty good. Because the music is nice and soothing to hear, and the voice 
 talent here is pretty good.
  
  For gameplay, i'm gonna say it's ok. The game is using Stylus for everything from moving, attacking, 
 using skills, just like playing with mouse. The friendly A. I will back you up and try to dispose 
 any enemies they encounter, but sometimes the A. i can get pretty dumb too. And for the exploring 
 it's nice but it can get very monotonous....
  
  For story, i'm pretty excited to follow what's coming up next so it's good.
  
  And last the 
 replay value. If you wanna play this game over again this game features the EX data just like the 
 previous Summon Night games. So you can use the skills you've learned but it's kinda SP consuming...
 
  
  Overall this game is Good. Worth playing just like the other Summon Night game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: puaemerson
Rating: 6
Date: Aug 15, 2008 9:42 am PT
Review:  The good:
  Beautiful game
  
  The bad:
  Very linear
  Very very easy
  
  If you love JRPGs without too much depth and if you are, say, aged 8-15, this game is pretty decent.
 
  
  As a mid-20s male who has been playing games since he was 5, I found nothing here which would make 
 me keep playing.
  
  Again, the game has some beautiful visuals. When I first fired it up I was pretty darned excited. 
 But after clicking through tons and TONS of boring, pretty poorly written dialogue (thought bubbles 
 explaining who people and lore are? Lame! Very poorly executed.) , I quickly got bored. I just wanted 
 to kill stuff!
  
  And as for the easiness, when the first large boss appeared, he spat out 6 little mini-baddies. 
 As I was busy dispatching those (which didn't even take a minute) , my 2 buddies had already killed 
 the boss! WTF?!
  
  I guess I just got bored tapping an enemy, waiting for him to die, then tapping tapping tapping 
 through dialogue to get to the next boring enemy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Shidohari
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 9, 2008 7:21 am PT
Review:  I was looking over this in Funcoland thinking it would be a good game. That it came highly recommended 
 by one of the associates that works there didn't hurt either.
  
  Some of the in between scenes are very long, which bugged me at first. However, since i learned 
 how connected those scenes were to the story i kept watching them and enjoying them. (you can't 
 skip them anyhow)
  
  Graphics are ok. Gameplay is really easy once you get used to the fact you have to use the stylus 
 for everything in this game. Also the radar function is handy so you can tell where breakable items, 
 enemies, and party members are.
  
  Also the animations on the ultimate attacks rock too. The only reason i'm going to rate this in 
 the just right difficulty level is because it takes a lengthy about of time to defeat certain bosses.
 
  
  I recommend this game to anyone. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jlord149
Rating: 5.5
Date: Jul 21, 2008 1:18 pm PT
Review:  History: 6 The history takes place in another world, where every thing is ruled by Spirits. The 
 game seems pretty attactive at the beginning, but as the history starts to grow, you'll find yourself 
 in a HUGE LOT of endless dialogues, wich makes the game expirience really boring. Also that you'll 
 never see something that make you say "Snap! What's going to happen now?" You'll always be like 
 "... So, that's what happened.... eh... uhhm..." Also the dungeon crawling is extremely monotonous.
 
  
  Gameplay: 7 OK, the gameplay is cool, is fun, with some original moves. You only use the bottoms 
 for making the dialogues continue. For moving, attacking, and those stuffs, you use the Stylus. 
 
  
  Graphics: 7 I don't agree with "undeniable charm". The animation is a cartoon-like one. But isn't 
 that bad. Could be enjoyable.
  
  Sounds: 5 The game doesn't have a great soundtrack. The bosses songs are enjoyable when are amuzing 
 battles compained with music with rhythm, wich this game doesn't have.
  
  Originality: 5 The game is same as a lot of others RPGs: a sowrdman and a magician, some different 
 spells attributes (Fire, Water, Wind, Earth and Sky, in this case) . The most original thing I found 
 was the Skill Tree, wich lacks because of its shortness. The best Skill tree I've ever seen in 
 this kind of games is the one of Final Fantasy X.
  
  Complete game again: 3 I don't hate myself enough to play this game ever again. I hardly passed 
 it once.
  
  Average: 5.5 I found this game a waste of time. I didn't enjoyed it nor like it. Buy it if you're 
 desperated by a dungeoon crawling game, but I don't recommend it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: thiagofali
Rating: 9
Date: Jul 19, 2008 3:29 pm PT
Review:  This is a very good and enjoyable game which I would recommend to everyone. I was quite tired of 
 having to level up for hours my characters in other RPG games and this game is pure fun and fast-paced. 
 The design is perfect and the skills with the support of the stylus are perfectly thought.
  
  The story is about a summon-beast (Aldo) and his best friend (Reiha) who have to fight their 
 way to discover what is the problem with the spirits. They have the ability to listen and unite 
 their powers with them to perform magic. Even more than that, they are friend of the spirits and 
 they cannot let them suffer. Therefore, they decide to go around the world to help and understand 
 what or who is upsetting the spirits. During their journey they will discover and understand about 
 prejudice, friendship, and that, after all, the summon beasts, the demi-beasts and the humans have 
 more in common than they previously thought.
  
  If you want to relax and enjoy a nice and involving story which does not require much of your time 
 to digest, this is the perfect game! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: futtii
Rating: 7
Date: Jul 6, 2008 7:52 pm PT
Review:  BY all means, this game is good, although the control system is touch screen but nothing like Zelda: 
 Phantom Hourglass, it is like the Runescape etc.. you click where you wish to move and quite frankly, 
 it gets very repatative and makes your fingers hurt. Afterrall the gamplay is fun and your characters 
 can do all sorts of wild things that is amazing.
  
  NOTE: at the start of the game you have a choice to play as the boy or the girl... It does not 
 matter who you choose because you can just swap characters, so don't think that you won't be playing 
 as both!
  
  It is very manga-like and is great in the sense of magic, RPG and all other idifferent and exotic 
 places to fight.
  
  This game can get annoying but it is very fun at points, my advice would be to use a stylus and 
 not your finger for this game as it is all revolved about the stylus.
  
  7.0 futti 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ravencr0w
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jul 3, 2008 5:27 am PT
Review:  My expectations for this game might have been set a little too high. 
  
  This is a beautiful game with a lot of dungeon hacking fun to be had but the item forging that 
 Summon Night games are well known for seem rather stale, with nothing particularly new or exciting. 
 Being able to add elemental attacks and +skills are nice though. Monster summoning is fun but seemingly 
 unnecessary as most battles are none too challenging.
  
  The story is average, the characters are very likeable and personable. I just find that I don't 
 particularly care for the story and just want to skip to the action.
  
  All in all, the game is still a lot fun and action, although lacking in challenge. This is as close 
 to being a "Diablo" for the ds as one can get. It satisfies the hack-and-loot gamer in me, that's 
 a reason for keeping this game for now.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: k_smoove
Rating: 9
Date: Jun 21, 2008 7:56 pm PT
Review:  Pros: Tons of depth and customization; lengthy single player with bonus content after completion, 
 and 2 different play-through options; generally smart partner AI; simple plot still manages to 
 keep you interested and entertained
  
  Cons: By nature, it gets repetitive; partners are useful in battle, but often get stuck on field 
 obstacles; crowded battles can be difficult to manage; no towns to visit or NPCs to interact with; 
 occasionally long dialog sequences
  
  Summon Night: Twin Age is another great DS game that will likely be ignored by most gamers. It's 
 a shame, too, since developer Flight Plan clearly put a lot of effort into the game.
  
  Twin Age is the next spin-off of the Japan-only Summon Night series. It's Action-RPG predecessors 
 on the GBA are completely unrelated, but fans of those under-appreciated should expect the same 
 amount of polish, customization, and hidden depth in this DS iteration.
  
  Twin Age follows the usual dungeon-crawler formula: you and your 2 partners explore linear areas 
 and slash away at everything that moves between point A and point B. Along the way, you'll swap 
 between the two main characters Aldo and Reiha (both of whom you can rename) , manage your team, 
 find treasures and supplies, and have a great time doing all of it.
  
  The story behind Summon Night: Twin Age is simple, but oddly compelling. It follows the adventures 
 of Reiha, a young Summoner whose parents died 7 years ago, and Aldo, the Summon Beast whom she 
 accidentally summoned the same day that her father died. The 2 children were raised as siblings 
 on the island of Marbado, where they lived among the Kascuza, a race of human/animal hybrids who 
 are generally feared or loathed by humans. One day, the Spirits begin acting strangely, and the 
 siblings go to check it out. Eventually, they end up in human lands and realize how divided the 
 races of Clardona really are. There are a few plot twists, but none of them are really all that 
 shocking, and many come towards the end. Speaking of that, the end of Twin Age felt a little early. 
 It was apparent that the game was coming to a close, but it felt like there was always just one 
 more chapter before the finale. It was likely due to the fact that the plot really thickens in 
 the last few chapters. The rest of the time, things felt largely unclear, but everything was cleared 
 up in the end, albeit suddenly.
  
  Along their quest, the siblings meet plenty of new friends who join them on their quest. One of 
 those partners can be selected to aid you on the field of battle, which improves their trust and 
 friendship with you, which makes them fight better and more cooperatively.
  The group of partners is pretty varied too, and each one follows their own styIe. Nassau, the first 
 partner, often runs off on his own into battle, whereas Ticah acts as a healer for the team.
  
  Overall, Summon Night: Twin Age is a great DS game that doesn't deserve the lack of attention 
 it will end up getting. Sure, it gets repetitive midway through, but it always felt fun and I was 
 always tempted to see what could possibly be coming next.
  If you're a fan of dungeon-crawlers, RPGs, Atlus, or the Swordcraft Story games on the GBA, Summon 
 Night: Twin Age is right for you. It's a lighthearted, exciting romp that will keep you coming 
 for more. Highly recommended for just about all DS owners.
  
  Break down:
  
  Presentation: 7/10- A surprising amount of clear VO. Plenty of story segments, almost a little 
 too much, actually. Flashy character entrances. Intricate, yet fluid menus. Controlled entirely 
 via the touch screen.
  
  Graphics: 8/10- Nice, hand-drawn character portraits and backdrops for dialog scenes; simple, 2D 
 characters with surprisingly fluid animations.
  
  Sound: 7/10- The background themes aren't all that memorable, but they are pretty catchy. VO is 
 either good, or so bad that it's good.
  
  Gameplay: 10/10- Dungeon-crawling at its best. Loads of customization options, from weapon upgrades 
 to the command palette on the right and left sides of the touch screen. Some may find it repetitive, 
 but others will love it and stay hooked.
  
  Lasting Value: 9/10- The main quest should take you about 15 hours to finish, with a few quick 
 side-quests as diversions. After you clear the game, a few bonus dungeons pop up that are worth 
 clearing. It's also worth a shot to play through a second time to see the other sibling's perspective 
 and find things you may have overlooked.
  
  Verdict: Definite buy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Fire_Emblem_RD
Rating: 8
Date: Jun 20, 2008 4:56 am PT
Review:  To tell the utmost truth my faith in Atlus has been dropped a lot a few years, to a point that 
 a publisher should sit at but along with Trauma Centre and this new and shiny game, my faith may 
 just rise again.
  I'd never played the gba summon night games, but after playing this i will dig around for them 
 because if they're just as good, i will thoroughly enjoy them. 
  
  The graphics are very good, another game that proves that a main 2d interface is still just as 
 good as a 3d one. They are flawless and quite detailed.
  
  The sound was good, but i wasnt as thrilled as i would be with other RPG's so i think that needs 
 the tiniest bit of work. and i didnt really like the voice overs
  
  The thing though that i liked the most was its real time battle system completely incorperating 
 the stylus, it was similar to that of Children of Mana but it was a lot more fun and didnt really 
 consist of you using one button rapidly to do the same thing over and over again. there are multiple 
 skills to learn which can be learned with skill point type factors, and theres an equipment system, 
 all the basics, but with certain elements that make this game somewhat stand out against the collection 
 of extremely mediocre RPG's of the DS, along with few others this game stands out, proving to be 
 a very enjoyable game that shouldnt be missed if you have a DS and have a thing for RPG's, or action, 
 or almost anything for that matter. 
  
  Good Show Atlas and Flight Plan, I hope the next in the series builds on the series, good gameplay 
 and overall charm further to once agin provide a very entertaining experience 
::::::

::::::
UserName: knightfire35
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jun 13, 2008 10:39 am PT
Review:  When I first heard about this game, i thought, well it looks like a reasonable DS rpg game. So 
 i went ahead and bought it. I must say, it is way more than reasonable. This game is an amazing 
 rpg for ds. I have played it all of last night and today. I finally finished it, and am now attempting 
 to finish all the extra content, which is a lot. The game plays and feels like an mmorpg. It's 
 like the stylus is your mouse. You click to move, your skills are there, and everything is avalible 
 with a click. The graphics are great and they are colorful through out the game, making each dungeon 
 enjoyable. The game is very easy, but thats alright. The story keeps your gripped, which is good, 
 considering the long dialogue scenes. Over all, it's one of the best ds rpg's out there, and it's 
 one of the only ds games, that allows everything to be used using the stylus, and it works. If 
 your a summon night fan, or just and rpg fan, this game is worth it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: keg2kay
Rating: 6.5
Date: Jun 9, 2008 7:10 am PT
Review:  Summon night is based in a spiritual world where not only does everyone rely on spirits but the 
 spirits rely on everyone else. basically you start in a small village as an elf or something and 
 your partner who is a human. these to are supposed to be brothers and sister but aren't really 
 because there parents died somehow but anyway. The spirits have gone corrupted by this dark evil 
 power and instead of acting kind to everyone they do the opposite. 
  
  This sequel to the other summon night isn't much of a sequel actually it starts with completely 
 different characters which i thought was a huge let down to the game. The story line doesn't change 
 to much through out the game as well as that there isn't much story line so the people who made 
 this decided to make the characters talk absolute nonsense for huge blocks of time which me feel 
 bored as well as a hurting sensation in my thumb trying to skip the text coming out of their black 
 hole sized mouths.
  
  Besides the huge letdowns the game still has it's moments such as a nice landscape design and character 
 creation. The game doesn't have any loading points except for loading your own file. The game has 
 some voice acting but not enough in my eyes.
  
  I don't recommend this game to many people but if it was a gift or something you might as well 
 play so just keep in mind that it is likely you will get huge pains in your hands. 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: death_godlet
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jun 7, 2008 6:38 am PT
Review:  This was one of the first reasons I wanted to buy a DS. Being a fan of the Summon Night games for 
 the GBA, I was stoked to see a sequel for the DS! Lo and behold, it was NOTHING like the first 
 two games I played but who's to say I was disappointed?
  
  First Impression:
  The opening sequence was just recycling the stills they use in game. A full motion video would 
 have been nice, really. When I first saw the screenshots on DSFanboy, I was a little nervous. Would 
 this game disappoint me because they changed the battle system I oh so loved? 
  
  Gameplay:
  Summon Night Swordcraft Story: you find yourself choosing which character to be: male 
 or female and you end up picking a Summon Beast who grants you magic, helps you forge your weapons. 
 
  Summon Night Twin Age: you can STILL pick who you want to be, male or female but it doesn't matter 
 as you can switch control to either one on the field. Perhaps the only thing that changes is points 
 of view. You can't pick a Summon Beast this time because... the male character you have liberty 
 of choosing IS the summon beast. This time around, you can't really forge weapons like you used 
 to. You can have them made at the store by providing the raw materials. 
  
  You start off with a knife, an axe and a lance. I've gone through half the game with the knife 
 which becomes a sword eventually as you upgrade your weapons. You also have a TON of healing items 
 (50 MP restore pots that restore 200 MP?!) which probably won't run out until much later. There 
 are also monsters to be summoned that can aid you in battle and the game gives you two level 10+ 
 ones to start with. Drop rate in dungeon crates and urns is REALLY high. Methinks the American 
 release got dumbed down. 
  The battle system reminded me of an MMORPG. You run to the enemy, click them and your character 
 attacks it until it falls. On the side is a command list where you can put ability icons for use. 
 Yep. Definitely MMORPG like. Sure, they got rid of the best part of Summon Night for me but what 
 they replaced it with was rather satisfying nontheless. Kinda. 
  Dungeons seem short and as long as you try to beat every single enemy in it and keep your weapons 
 and armor upgraded, they won't pose much of a challenge. 
  Heck, even the skill tree reminds me of an MMORPG! You spend skill points (earned during a level 
 up) to upgrade skills or buy new ones. Upgrade a skill enough and you max it. Buy enough skills 
 and you unlock new ones. All in all, this leads to a deeper level of character customization. 
 
  Characters join your party as events unfold but you can only have three at a time. The boy and 
 the girl can NOT be removed. The third member of the party can be chosen from the rest of the motley 
 crew following you around. 
  As Gamespot said, the AI seems a little shabby. Your party members can get caught in corners and 
 you'll have to backtrack to get them.
  
  Story:
  This Summon Night seems to be set somewhere different from its two predecessors so don't expect 
 to see the same thing. Sure, there are some factors that bear similarity (Summon Beasts) but it's 
 not quite the same. Maybe it's an AU of sorts. 
  
  Last words:
  As I said, Summon Night Twin Age is a different flavor from Swordcraft Story but it's the sort 
 of flavor that wasn't at all a complete disaster. It wasn't what I expected but I wasn't really 
 disappointed at all. 
  Maybe this is what it would be like if Summon Night was... yes, you guessed it. an MMORPG. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
