-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Super Monkey Ball Touch & Roll
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/ds/action/supermonkeyballds/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 100 different stages to play through.
 Same basic gameplay formula--roll around in each stage and mess around with minigames.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 Same basic gameplay formula--roll around in each stage and mess around with minigames.
 Touch-screen control for the main game mode is awkward.
 Not many minigames, and each one by itself doesn't offer much value.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Feb 28, 2006
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 6.6
Critic Score: 6.6, 45 Review (s)
User Score: 7.1, 303 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Sega
Genre: Party
Date: Feb 21, 2006
ESRB: Everyone

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Touch & Roll for the DS offers more or less everything you'd expect from a Monkey Ball game, but 
 it doesn't do a whole lot more than that. 

  Sega's inimitable chirping monkeys are back at it again, this time in portable form for the Nintendo 
 DS in Super Monkey Ball Touch &amp; Roll. The game rolls over very familiar territory for those 
 who are familiar with the earlier games, released on various consoles. Unfortunately, the game 
 may feel a little too familiar as many of the stages are lifted right out of previous games, and 
 the touch-screen control can be a little awkward to adjust to, so you'll likely find yourself falling 
 back on the D pad to control your monkey.  

          Strange, twisting stage? Check. Monkey inside a plastic ball? Check. Bananas? Check. Yep, 
 it's a Super Monkey Ball game, alright.     

  For those unfamiliar with the Monkey Ball series, you control a cute monkey rolling around in a 
 clear ball, much like the clear plastic balls that hamster owners use to exercise their rodent 
 pets. Super Monkey Ball Touch &amp; Roll has you navigating through 100 different stages, collecting 
 bananas for points as you try and roll yourself to the goal before time runs out. The stages are 
 pretty varied, offering ramps, narrow bridges, stairs, moving platforms, and other tricky hazards 
 that test your ability to roll your monkey safely along without falling off an edge. While many 
 of the levels are quite easy, you'll run into some that are maddeningly difficult. Touch &amp; 
 Roll differs from previous games in that you can use the DS's touch screen to move the ball around. 
 Holding the stylus toward the upper half of the screen rolls you forward, while the bottom half 
 will roll backward -- left and right steer accordingly. It's an intuitive scheme, but in practice, 
 controlling the game with the touch screen is much more awkward than just using the D pad. It's 
 difficult to get the level of precision with the touch pad that you can get from just using the 
 standard control input. As in previous Monkey Ball games, you can collect bananas in each stage 
 to earn extra lives. Timed bonus stages are also available, and they let you roll around and collect 
 dozens of bananas. The stages are split up into groups of 10 and beating these groupings will unlock 
 additional levels.  

  There are also six party games included in Touch &amp; Roll, including race, fight, bowling, golf, 
 and two new games, hockey and wars. These are all available for multiplayer action for up to four 
 players, with race, hockey, and wars playable through game sharing. Race is, as you'd expect, a 
 lap race between all four Monkey Ball characters, around six different tracks. This mode takes 
 a few cues from classic arcade racers with zip pads and weapon pickups but doesn't really establish 
 itself as anything special, thanks to the bland track design. Fight is the classic game mode that 
 has all the monkeys on platforms of varying shapes, trying to punch each other off with massive 
 boxing gloves. This one's probably one of the more fun games, but it's nothing you haven't played 
 before, and the lack of platform designs to play on limits its value. Bowling is pretty decent. 
 You can set your ball positioning and spin before making the toss, which is done by simply dragging 
 the stylus in an upward motion on the touch pad. Unfortunately, you can't adjust spin on the fly 
 (there is a live monkey in the ball, is there not?) , so there's nothing unique about monkey bowling 
 that's different from any other bowling minigame. Golf plays out like a match of minigolf, where 
 you must ply through twisting greens, ramps, and the dreaded mole-hill-style holes over an 18-hole 
 course. Control is pretty basic as you set your direction and then power up by dragging the stylus 
 around a circular meter. There's only one course though, so you'll probably tire of this one pretty 
 quickly, too.  

  The two brand-new minigames, hockey and wars, are unique, but they don't seem like they belong 
 in a Monkey Ball game. Stretched vertically across the two screens on the DS, hockey plays a lot 
 like a regular game of air hockey -- the kind you've played at an arcade or in your rich uncle's 
 basement. There are a couple of twists here, though. One version of Monkey Hockey lets you draw 
 your own paddle and hit with it, with sections of the paddle coming off after each hit. There are 
 also target-switches in each corner of the rink that do crazy things if you can hit those. You 
 can shrink the size of your own goal or expand your opponent's goal. The switches can also trigger 
 extra pucks to come out on the surface or change the size of your opponent's paddle. This requires 
 you to defend not only your goal, but the switches in the corners, lest you let your opponent activate 
 too many power-ups. At one point, we found ourselves with a "paddle" that had an approximate diameter 
 of five pixels, defending a goal mouth that stretched the width of the screen, while the computer 
 had a paddle larger than a UFO and a goal mouth narrower than a drinking straw. It's pretty fun, 
 but the computer is an unmerciful opponent.  

  Wars is basically a primitive first-person shooter and is reminiscent of Faceball 2000 for the 
 original Game Boy. You use the D pad to move forward, backward, and around three different maps. 
 Shooting is accomplished by tapping on the screen and turning is done slowly and awkwardly by holding 
 down on the arrow buttons displayed on the touch screen. There are weapon pickups on the levels, 
 some of which have unique powers such as the ability to slow opponents. But otherwise, this is 
 a pretty unremarkable minigame. Southpaws will be annoyed to find that the D pad control is not 
 mirrored on the buttons, so you've got no recourse but to play this particular minigame right-handed. 

          Hockey is totally bananas, but oddly enough, there are no monkeys in it!     

  As far as presentation goes, Super Monkey Ball Touch &amp; Roll delivers a vibrant, colorful 
 experience. There isn't a whole lot of detail in the backgrounds, but the levels still look pretty 
 decent, and the monkeys are as cute as ever. Most importantly for a game like this, there's never 
 any slowdown, so you're never struggling against the graphics for full control of your monkey. 
 The sound-scape is dominated by some whimsical, upbeat tunes, though you'll also hear the squealing 
 and cooing of the monkeys, depending on how well you are doing. It's all solid stuff but nothing 
 especially remarkable.  

  Super Monkey Ball Touch &amp; Roll for the DS is basically everything you'd expect from a portable 
 version of Monkey Ball. You've got dozens of stages to roll through and a handful of minigames 
 that you can challenge your friends with. Unfortunately, that familiar formula is part of the problem. 
 Chances are, you've basically played this game before. Unless you feel like you really need a portable 
 version of Monkey Ball, there's nothing truly compelling about this version of the game compared 
 with its predecessors. Perhaps a larger variety of minigames or better use of the DS's unique properties 
 might have made Touch &amp; Roll easier to recommend. As it is, the game is just another merely 
 decent Monkey Ball game, shrunken down into a smaller format.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (22 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: gamefreak3111
Rating: 4.5
Date: Nov 18, 2007 3:11 pm PT
Review:  Playing the party games with is fun, but it needs more games. The multiplayer part is the only 
 good thing about this game. If you play it by yourself the game sucks. The single player mode is 
 annoying. Some parts are so hard you get stuck on them for weeks, months, or in my case half-of-a-year!!!!!! 
 Most of the courses are easy but then you hit a hard one and you will die constantly. It makes 
 you want to throw it at a wall. But, like I said the multiplayer part is patchy, but it's still 
 fun enough to play every now and then 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Jukilum
Rating: 4
Date: Oct 12, 2007 11:56 am PT
Review:  This game lacks everything that the other monkey ball games had: Fun. It is amusing for a little 
 bit, but it quickly grows frustrating. The minigames look cool to at first glance. When you try 
 doing them with a friend, though, it all seems hopeless.
  
  The graphics in this game obviously had very little effort put into them, with two dimensional 
 monkeys and some graphics made for the other games.
  
  The music also grows to be very frustrating, with hardly any variety.
  
  Overall, I caution 
 you to stay away from this game. It is possibly one of the worst games on the DS. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GuitarPAaron
Rating: 9.7
Date: Apr 5, 2007 3:55 pm PT
Review:  Wow. This game is better than i expected. I thought i would beat it pretty quickly, but when i 
 got it. I learned that it was trickier than i had planned on it being. I like the graphics and 
 the backgrounds. Although about half of the levels are repeats from previous games, they seem like 
 new beause they look different. The minigames are fun to play, but have pretty awkward controls. 
 THey say you have to use the stylus, but i found it easier to use the control pad. All in all, 
 id say that if you find this game anywhere chap. ITs worth buying. THey say you have to use the 
 stylus, but i found it easier to use the control pad. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: NBAmaster30
Rating: 4.5
Date: Mar 11, 2007 5:09 pm PT
Review:  I usually like the games i buy... I wish i could say this about super monkey ball touch and roll. 
 It seems like a really good concept but they totally **** it up. a 2-d touch screen with horrible 
 controls, bad mini games and just a boring game. And this is coming from a guy who loved super 
 monkey ball 1 and 2 for G cube. i loved the mini games the levels were fun but this game lack it 
 alot. i expected a lot more from this game and they did not deliver. when you hear about it you 
 think it would be great but i was sadly mistaken. And one of the things that made Super Monkey 
 ball fun was its mini games. These ones blow and are not fun to play at all. don't even pick this 
 up it will be a complete waste of time. Gameplay: Come again..... there is hardly one Graphics: 
 They are above average by ds means but nothing to get excited about
  
  Sound: a lot of sound bytes are back from the other games but they were not even good. average 
 sound overall
  
  Value: if you can stand this game you will play it for a decent amount of time be careful of the 
 horrid mini games
  
  Overall: Eww this game is a disgrace to the franchise. you just want to forget this game ever came 
 out. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: santiagochile
Rating: 9.3
Date: Nov 26, 2006 10:49 pm PT
Review:  This is the first time I have ever played a Mokey Ball game, and I love it! The best part of the 
 game, in my opinion, is the touch-screen control. I love using the stylus to tilt the levels to 
 get the monkey moving. Despite all the other reviews that said the controls were unresponsive , 
 I got the hang of them pretty quickly. You can control the movements with subtle, small movements, 
 and you have to keep moving to make sure you get to the goal. The ability to use the stylus that 
 way makes the game incredibly fun to play, but if you can't use the stylus, you can also use the 
 d-pad. The one player campaign has great levels, some very easy, and some hard. You'll definitely 
 have to know where you are going and how you are going to get there. If you don't come to a level 
 prepared, you might not pass it. To help players out, there is a practice mode, in which you can 
 practice all of the stages of the levels that you have unlocked so far. This helps out when you 
 are in the actual mission. You won't get to a level, only to not know how to pass it and have to 
 start over from the beginning.
  
  The graphics are incredible for the DS. I love the backgrounds for the levels, and the mokey looks 
 adorable. The levels all seem to have the same floor patterns, though. That is the only flaw, but 
 it doesn't at all detract from the game.
  
  The music is catchy, but it repeats throught an entire level of 10 stages. I think the music is 
 the worst part of the game.
  
  The minigames can be a blast. I love the racing game, and how you use the stylus to move your monkey 
 throught the course. I also like the objects you can throw at your competitors. Bowling and golf 
 can be fun too, but the others didn't impress me. Over all I love this game, and I don't see why 
 so many people can't master the touch-screen controls. If people just had more patience, and tried 
 to make small movements, they could really enjoy this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bloodychimp
Rating: 7.5
Date: Oct 12, 2006 2:54 pm PT
Review:  For those of you who have been living in a box for the past few years, Super Monkey Ball is a Puzzle/Action 
 game made by Sega where you roll a monkey in a ball to the goal in every level. That being said 
 on to my review...
  
  I have mixed feelings about the gameplay in touch and roll. The touch screen controls are great 
 in theory, but they just don't work out in practice. Fortunately, you can still use the control 
 pad to play the core game, so it still plays great, but you must use the stilus for the mini games. 
 This makes controlling the mini-games a bit awkward, however they are still fairly entertaining.
 
  
  The graphics are pretty good, with all of the levels in 3D and the monkey cell-shaded. They are 
 crisp, clean, and work great for the game. The sound is superb, with various jungle-sounding beats 
 it really fits the game.
  
  Overall, the main gameplay mode in Touch &amp; Roll will keep you fairly entertained for a while 
 and has a good bit of replay value. The minigames, while their controls are awkward, are still 
 pretty fun to play with your friends. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: JMC47
Rating: 6.5
Date: Sep 4, 2006 12:31 am PT
Review:  I love the monkey ball series... well used to, this year has been a bad year for monkeyball. This 
 game, has all the levels, multiplayer, and anything else the console games had except the fun.
 
  
  GAME PLAY
  
  Difficult. Mind numbingly difficult. Touch screen controls or analog controls don't make a difference. 
 Touch screen you have to be way to exact, analog are way to inaccurate. Basically, its marble madness 
 in 3D. You control a ball to the goal. You collect bananas for extra lives, and for high scores.
 
  
  I can beat most of the levels, but I get to a certain point where the game is impossible for me 
 regardless of what I try. This detracts a big portion of the score. It isn't like good challenging 
 like Master Quest, its bad challenging like... bad challenging.
  
  There are multiplayer mini games, but they require multiple carts and stuff. The ones I did play 
 were stripped down versions of the ones in the console games. Basically, nothing is as good as 
 in the console counterparts.
  
  GRAPHICS
  
  The game looks great on the DS. If the game had the nice backdrops from the GC games it would look 
 identical to the console games beside the ugly monkey.
  
  SOUND
  
  Not very good. What is there is repetitive, and annoying. The start up music made me want to turn 
 off the DS. I played some levels with sound, and most of it is generic like the console games, 
 but it does fit. Outside of the annoying stuff, the sound is decent.
  
  VALUE
  
  I could say the game had really good value. If you like to do stuff that will make you throw your 
 DS, it does have good value. If you have plenty of money to spend on multiple carts it has good 
 value. Basically, it doesn't have good value. Its just not fun enough.
  
  TILT
  
  For a game like this, with no story, I still rate TILT on the games grab. Without a story, what 
 keeps you coming back in a game. Sometimes you don't know. This game had the grab to a certain 
 point, then it threw it away with near impossible levels that made you want to quit.
  
  OVERALL
  
  I did enjoy this game for the first 2 hours, but everything after that was frustration 
 and disappointment. If you are godly at monkey ball games, then you may still enjoy it, but if 
 your just above average or anything worse than that, stay away. It has everything required to be 
 fun, but just isn't. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SpecialED1020
Rating: 4.7
Date: Jul 18, 2006 6:40 am PT
Review:  Good game for 10 minutes. Bad game for the rest of the time is in your possestion. The thing that 
 ruins the game the most is the controlls, yeah you can use your stylus, but that just doesnt feel 
 right, so you WILL find yourself using the D-Pad, which isnt good either because it's are to go 
 diagnoly (especailly if you have a lite) Anolouge is the best way to go with this franchise. Now 
 on to the levels, sure they're challenging but repetitive. You'll find yourself doings the same 
 thing jsut a different way. This is the worst game in the Super Monkey Ball series. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rta
Rating: 6.8
Date: Jul 10, 2006 10:15 pm PT
Review:  maybe i'm just too old, but this is the hardest frigging game i've ever played. makes me wanna 
 throw the ds against a wall sometimes.
  
  sucks you can't play most multi games without finishing all 100 levels. boo.
  
  the graphics 
 are ok. the monkey is a sprite which is kinda lame. would think they would have put more into the 
 monkey. 
  
  it's a hard game. if you are old and up for a challenge go for it. the ice section will have u 
 spitting nails. the controls are awkward but i guess its supposed to be. forget using the stylus, 
 use the dpad. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: smileyryder34
Rating: 7.2
Date: Jun 27, 2006 9:35 pm PT
Review:  I borrowed my sister's copy of Super Monkey Ball for the Gamecube. That was my first mistake. Since 
 that time I've been hooked on this series. Not only me, but my 4 year old and 8 year old children 
 as well. 
  This game was a must have, mainly because of my children saying we "HAD" to have it. I picked it 
 up and put it in my DS. I instantly noticed all the party games were immediately unlocked and I 
 wasn't forced to play my way through the main game to get them. While this is not a big deal in 
 itself it was fun to jump right into those for a few minutes. 
  When I started the main game i played through the first 10 levels in just a few minutes and was 
 surprised to see the credits. I thought "this can't be all, it's way too short". After realizing 
 that I could play a game while the credits roll I was taken back to the main screen. I started 
 up the main game again and realized there is in fact more to the game. The levels are fun to play. 
 Many of them you've seen already in previous SMB games. They are direct imports of those levels, 
 but are slightly different because of the DS controls and the fact there is no analog stick on 
 the DS. Many of the levels you'll complete on the first attempt. There are a few that may take 
 a couple times to really get comfortable with and then there are some levels that are just insanly 
 hard to get through, but these are few.
  I have found myself not using the stylus and the touch screen to play the game as it is just too 
 quirky and not really comfortable. The D-pad is the way to go when playing through the main game. 
 I would also like to be able to use the D-pad when playing some of the party games like Monkey 
 Race. I have found I don't play these very often. 
  Monkey Bowling is like it has been n the past. You set your spin before you roll the ball and you 
 drag the stylus down the lane to set your power. It didn't take long before I was stringing together 
 numerous strikes and have consistantly set scores of over 200 every time. I have never enjoyed 
 Monkey Fight, but it is a solid game if you can get the controls down. Monkey Golf is as solid 
 as it has been in the past, but the later holes do begin to get really tough and it can be hard 
 to make Par on those holes. My only real gripe with Golf is that there is only one course. More 
 courses would make this the best of the mini games. I really like the addition of the air hockey 
 game, though it doesn't really have much to do with the rest of the game as the Monkeys are not 
 on the screen while you're playing. 
  I would have to say that if you're a fan of the Monkey Ball series, then this game is a must have. 
 You'll find yourself playing it for extended periods of time and it's a really good game if you 
 have a few minutes to play Air Hockey or a few holes of golf. It will also be a good way to spend 
 the time if you're waiting for SMB: Banana Blitz for the Wii. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: davey_dave
Rating: 8
Date: May 13, 2006 2:47 pm PT
Review:  First off i loved the original monkey ball for gc and the sequel... then i went on a monkey diet 
 and no monkeys for about two years... then this! I was so happy when i learned it was coming to 
 ds. Now on to the review............
  
  
  The single player is great...... not sure if there are any new stages but i loved seeing the stages 
 from the previous games in this one. Beautiful backgrounds and the stages them selves look great 
 too. The controls are nothing to worry about..... i use the d-pad instead of the touch screen cause 
 i feel it gives me more control. The d-pad control isnt bad at all but its no analog. I havent 
 experienced any "i wish i had joystick for this" moments so thats good. The party games are also 
 great.... unless your a lefty like me.. you can play monkey golf, bowling and monkey hockey but not 
 race boxing or wars. there also isnt an option to switch to lefty mode so that was kinda disappointing.
 
  
  Pros: Its monkey ball on the go! Great looking graphics and the music is catchy too.
  
  Cons: No lefty mode for party games.
  
  Final Verdict: You'll love this game if youre a monkey 
 ball fan. Newbies to the series who wanna start out with this one..... try before you buy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: crenchteffin
Rating: 8.1
Date: Apr 13, 2006 6:14 pm PT
Review:  this game is so ausome its like an arcade system in your hand. This version of super monkeyball 
 is very impressing i thought it would be really bad because it is on an handheld system but i guese 
 i was wrong. The thing about this game is its so addicting. Your friend calls you up and asks to 
 play a game of baseball and you say ill come over after i die in super monkeyball.1 hour later 
 your friends over playing whith you!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!! it is ausome ausome ausome ausome ausome 
 ausome ausome ausome ausome AUSOME AUSOME AUSOME AUSOME AUSOME AUSOME AUSOME AUSOME AUSOME AUSOME 
 AUSOME AUSOME AUSOME AUSOME AUSOME AUSOME AUSOME AUSOME AUSOME AUSOME AUSOME!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!! 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mighty_shark
Rating: 7.6
Date: Apr 3, 2006 11:28 am PT
Review:  When this game was announced everyone was saying the same thing: how would this game be controlled? 
 How will it cope without the analogue stick? Will SEGA be able to create controls on the touch-screen 
 that will successfully replace the analogue stick?
  
  Well the game is controlled with the d-pad or the touch-screen. Of course, this game lacks control 
 when you use the D-pad. And for the touch-screen controls..... well they are just horrible. Basically, 
 you keep your stylus in the middle of the screen, in the middle of the monkey on the screen. Then 
 you move it up to move the money up on the top screen and its the same for all of the other directions. 
 This control system is really bad and you are better off using the d-pad.
  
  As usual in monkey ball games, you have to guide the monkey through a puzzle and into the goal. 
 Some of the puzzles are brand new but some of them are just re-used levels from previous console 
 versions of monkey ball.
  
  Then you have the party games. You get the same ones as usual plus three new games. Monkey Race 
 is totally ruined. Instead of using the controls to basically race the monkey to the finish you 
 now have to touch the monkey in the direction you want him to move in. This totally blocks your 
 view of how the race is going. Monkey golf is brilliant however. Your use the touch screen to swing 
 back the club and hit the ball. It has been improved a lot. Monkey Hockey is among the best of 
 the games but it acually has nothing to do with monkeys so it shouldn't be in the game! Monkey 
 Target, the best game on the console games, are absent from this handheld version.
  
  The graphics are good but not great and the sound is what you would expect from a monkey ball. 
 And for some reason this game doesn't exactly feel like a monkey ball game like it used to on the 
 Gamecube.
  
  Overall, Monkey Ball fans will love it, but if you already have it on Gamecube you won't be missing 
 anything on this DS version. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: zman101
Rating: 6.8
Date: Mar 30, 2006 6:07 pm PT
Review:  This game is probley one of my top games that I have all though the after a while of playing it 
 a lot it can start to get a little boring all though the object of the game is to go through levels 
 beating cources with your four monkey palls. The monkeys you can chose are AiAi, Baby, MiMi, and 
 this mean monkey that I would never chose. This game is just o. k. but I would reccomened this game 
 if your just getting the ds. If you want to have fun rolling monkeys around you should buy this 
 game. If you loved the other games you'll love this one. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: brim4brim
Rating: 8.4
Date: Mar 22, 2006 5:25 am PT
Review:  I gave this game 8.4 which is considerably higher than gamespots review. I got this game yesterday 
 and played it for hours. Gamespot have some points in their review but I don't think it took away 
 from the gameplay much.
  
  I am a complete Super Monkey Ball addict! I'll openly admit this and was put off by the review 
 on gamespot but couldn't stop myself buying the game. The first thing you'll notice is the weird 
 initial splash screen ask you to touch to begin which is a monkey shaking it's rear at the screen. 
 Okay, enough on that then.
  
  The main game is the same old Monkey Ball with some of the levels carrying over from the console 
 games. Most of the leves are fairly easy. The touch screen controls do work well (in spite of some 
 reviews to the contrary) . The touch screen is essentially one huge analog stick. You move the 
 stylus to the top to make the ball go forward, back toward you to go back and left and right to 
 go left and right. This control system is great for staying on curved narrow ledges but fails when 
 you have right angled turns to make I found. The solution to this is to switch to the d-pad controls 
 for these levels. By moving between both control schemes the game becomes a lot of fun.
  
  Mini games. Unfortunately you have to use the touchscreen in mini-games. There are new mini-games 
 added and some of the old ones. Monkey fighting is still here but I never like that myself. It's 
 very similar to the console version in monkey ball 2. Monkey racing is also still here and is just 
 as much fun as the console version except the touch screen controls can be annoying at times.
 
  
  Monkey bowling is here but has changed. There is no special mode!! It has changed to challenge 
 mode in which you have to knock pins laid out in such a manner that they are hard to knock down. 
 This is reasonably good fun and the touch screen controls make the bowling more like bowling in 
 my opinion. Monkey golf has become monkey mini-golf. This is brillant, one of the best things in 
 the game if you like mini-golf games (like the flash ones you get online) .
  
  Then you have monkey hockey. I don't like this at all. It seems like something that should work 
 with the touch screen but I found that sometimes it seems to just start acting like your not touching 
 the handle at all when your playing. The original twist on hockey is reasonable but again not great. 
 There is also a 3d maze, FPS style game (not really) . I found this to be a complete disaster.
 
  
  The absence of monkey target is noticable!
  
  Other than the few snags with the controls, the odd change for the worse in mini-games and the 
 absence of monkey target, this is the same old lovable monkey ball. It's monkey ball on the go, 
 so go get it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DidiCardoso
Rating: 7.1
Date: Mar 19, 2006 1:16 pm PT
Review:  Super Monkey Ball has been around since the launch of the GameCube, crossing over to other consoles 
 and later on taking a portable jump onto the GBA. This time, Sega brings the monkey business to 
 the Nintendo DS.
  
  Super Monkey Ball Touch & Roll starts out with a hilarious naughty bit: you have to touch the monkey's 
 butt to begin the game. After this funny yet a little disturbing encounter, you get to discover 
 the various options that compose the game.
  
  The main game is a series of 100 maze courses, where you roll collecting bananas and trying to 
 reach the goal before the timer runs out. These levels range from fairly easy to insanely difficult, 
 each offering a series of obstacles such as moving platforms, narrow passages, stairs, ramps and 
 holes that will require precision to move safely through. To control your monkey ball, you can 
 use either the stylus and touch screen or the D-pad. I'm sure opinions will diverge as to which 
 one is better, but I didn't find either particularly easy to use.
  
  Aside from the main challenge, there's the party mode. This mode has six mini-games that you can 
 play by yourself against the CPU or by using the wi-fi feature to play against other people. I 
 was particularly fond of these mini-games, which totally break the frustration of the stressful 
 gameplay from the main game.
  
  Monkey Bowling is pretty straightforward: you aim your monkey ball and draw a course to try to 
 knock down all the pins. Unfortunately, you can't alter your course while the monkey ball is moving 
 down the bowling lane. Bowling offers regular 8 or 10 pin matches, or you can choose to play the 
 puzzle mode where the pins are arranged in crafty ways. 
  
  The mini-golf game (Monkey Golf) offers a pretty decent challenge, but unfortunately there is only 
 one course to play on. The course is composed of 18 holes of increasing difficulty, the stages 
 including ramps, platforms and holes. You use your stylus to adjust the way you want the ball to 
 go, then drag the club around a circular meter to adjust the power and finally pull it forward 
 towards the ball to hit. Think of it as a pendulum motion that simulates a real swing.
  
  Monkey Fight is a boxing match of sorts between four players that is played with the stylus only. 
 Your monkey ball is armed with a giant boxing glove and the objective is to knock your adversaries 
 off the platform while trying not to fall off yourself, pick up some power-ups and score the most 
 points, to win the number of matches you have previously set it for. It's actually pretty fun and 
 pretty hectic too, but it only cycles through four different platforms. 
  
  Monkey Race is not overly impressive, it's something like a Mario Kart game. You pick your monkey, 
 pick your track and race around a course stepping on boost pads and picking up items to help you 
 win. You can't use the D-pad for this one either.
  
  The other two party games are the newest additions to Super Monkey Ball, and they happen to be 
 my other two favorites aside from Bowling and Fight.
  
  Monkey Hockey turns your DS into an air-hockey table, making use of both screens. You can play 
 a Classic game where you use a round pad, or you can pick Line Smasher where you draw your pad 
 with the stylus. There is a twist though, you can use special items during the game. On each field 
 there are two item spots that change color and icon. Depending on the color and icon, you or the 
 opponent will suffer the effect. Some of these include opening or closing the goal slot, shrinking 
 or enlarging the pad, and extra ball. Lifting the stylus will make you lose control of your pad, 
 so keep it touching the screen at all times.
  
  Monkey Wars is a hoot. It's basically a first-person shooter where you run around in a maze using 
 the D-pad to move and the stylus to look and shoot. There are several different hilarious power-ups 
 such as cream pies to block your opponent's vision, watermelon seeds that work like a machine gun, 
 and pineapple grenades.
  
  All six party games support up to four players in wireless play, with Monkey Wars and Monkey Hockey 
 having the advantage of being able to be played through DS Download Play. I'm sure they all would 
 be great to play with friends, but I haven't managed to connect to anyone yet.
  
  All in all, Super Monkey Ball Touch & Roll is a fun and challenging action/puzzle that gives a 
 whole different meaning to monkeying around. 
  
  Review text part of Grrlgamer. com. Original text and screenshots at:
  http://www. grrlgamer. com/review. php? g=supermonkeyballds 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Dustdragon
Rating: 6.5
Date: Mar 18, 2006 1:47 am PT
Review:  This game is fun for a couple of days, but then you will don't even touch it anymore!!
  The graphics aren't the best, the 2d towards 3d action is awkward.
  I loved this game for a couple 
 of hours.
  but not longer then that.
  If i was you, then I say that you can better rental it for some days.
  The mini-games are also 
 a bit of boring and the graphics there are also not so good as you think.
  Conclusion: A funny game indeed, but i dont give the tilt you like from the NGC titles of SBM. 
 Only for rental!!: p 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lazlodude7
Rating: 8.2
Date: Mar 2, 2006 4:26 pm PT
Review:  Gameplay: The D-pad controls are excellent, second to none. The touch screen controls are poor 
 and unresponsive, and in the party games, you have to use the screen to play, even if it's forced. 
 But more likely than not, your attention will be focused on the main game. There is many a variety 
 of stages, but most of them are just ports from SMB/SMB2. There are new ones, too, but they are 
 either too simplistic or too... well... impossible, but you will get by them eventually. The difficulty 
 varies, so the game requires a large amount of strategy to succeed.
  
  Graphics: The levels are in full 3D, but your monkey is in 2D, making it kind of hard to get used 
 to. 
  
  Sound: Wait.... that was music? I thought that was a child screaming bloody murder in the background. 
 Oh well. The SFX, however, is the kind that SMB veterans will recognize, but the monkey voices 
 are higher-pitched than in the GCN version (s) .
  
  Overall, the game is pretty much the best DS puzzle game around. If you own a DS, or are just a 
 fan of SMB or puzzles, this definitely won't disappoint. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Foolio1
Rating: 8.3
Date: Feb 26, 2006 1:11 pm PT
Review:  First off I just wanted to say that I'm disappointed with many of the scores reviewers have been 
 giving this game. The majority of them being below 70% where I feel this game deserves a lot more. 
 I've been familiar with the series since the GCN debut, it being my second GCN game I bought. Hearing 
 that Super Monkey Ball would make it to the DS sounded exciting, especially getting to use the 
 touch screen to play the game.
  
  If you're not familiar with the series, it's an adaptation of a popular arcade game in Japan. You 
 tilt these various puzzle levels to roll a monkey inside a clear plastic ball. Your basic objective 
 to make it to the goal at the end of each course within the time limit and without falling off.
 
  
  Many of the complaints about this game come from the use of the touch screen to control. Now I'll 
 admit, it's not perfect. The screen lacks the same amount of precision that players had on the 
 console version. It feels almost a little loose at first. However, with just a bit of diligence 
 it can be mastered in time, especially if you have previous experience with the gameplay. It didn't 
 take me long to get a feel for using the touch screen and in no time I was rolling just like on 
 the 'Cube. The D-pad is also another option, but not recommended. While it still works to play 
 the game, it lacks the more precise analog control that is virtually essential to tackling this 
 game.
  
  Graphically, the game looks great, in my opinion. Still, Super Moneky Ball never had been a very 
 complex level design in terms of aesthetics. With that in mind, it makes an easy transition to 
 the DS. Though not extremely rich with detail, Touch & Roll manages to retain the vibrant look 
 and colors from its console counterparts. Even though the textures are simple, they still look 
 really great. Even the backgrounds make a clever use of 3D and 2D effects. Another odd change is 
 the monkeys are 2D this time around. It comes off as a bit strange at first, but after a while 
 the graphics just seem to blend together and isn't really an issue.
  
  Touch & Roll also features fantastic sound. Some of the effects sound borrowed from the console 
 games, but mostly just with the voices. It's perfectly understandable that they still wanted them 
 to sound the same. Coupled with that is a great soundtrack that not only sports excellent quality, 
 but is just a lot of fun.
  
  There's decent amount of content to come along with this game. The challenge levels come in sets 
 of 10 each with their own theme. Playing a set doesn't take too long, which is great if you have 
 to play on-the-go a lot. The only real problems is that you cannot save in the middle of a set 
 and after completing each one you are forced to watch the game's credits. While the credits are 
 turned into a game, it can still be annoying if you need to quit. Fortunately it still saves the 
 progress if you reset or turn the game off.
  
  Another great surprise is the inclusion of all those great party games that really gave Super Monkey 
 Ball a lot of longevity. Many of the classics are here like Monkey Race, Golf, Fight, and Bowling. 
 Two new games make an appearance. Monkey War is sort of an FPS-style game. Using the D-pad lets 
 you move forward, back, and strafe. Siding the stylus along a bar at the bottom lets you turn and 
 tapping the screen fires. The controls feel a bit clunky and is only mildly entertaining. Next 
 is Monkey Hockey, which is basically and air-hockey game. These games are great to play against 
 computer or other opponents. Again, it also does a great job in adding to the game's overall content.
 
  
  In the end I think Super Monkey Ball: Touch & Roll is a faithful adaptation of the series to the 
 Nintendo DS. While the control isn't quite as sharp as it could have been, it still plays well. 
 There's a lot of fun to be had with this game be it the classic challenge courses or the variety 
 of party games. Touch & Roll is a strong addition to the DS line-up. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: EleMinoP26
Rating: 9.3
Date: Feb 25, 2006 8:30 pm PT
Review:  Super Monkey Ball is and has always been a fun game ever since it came out on the GameCube, and 
 the version for Nintendo DS is even better with the new control feature thanks to the DS's touch 
 screen.
  On most of the modes, you can either use the control pad, or you can use the touch screen to move 
 the ball. It's not like on Pokemon Dash, where you have to scratch up and eventually mess up your 
 touch screen. Instead, you use it like an analog stick- left is left, right is right, and so on. 
 It's a little hard to get used to at first, but once you get used to it, you'll have a lot of fun 
 with this game.
  The music soundtrack is certainly cartoon-ish, but not extremely annoying. If you can get used 
 to a soundtrack like on Mario Kart, you should be able to get through this one. The gameplay is 
 extremely addictive, with over 100 tracks to go through, all based on 10 different worlds. It also 
 has party games like monkey bowling, monkey golf, and two new ones including a shooter-like game 
 where you throw pies, bananas, and more at each other. 
  The graphics are great on this game, probably some of the best I have seen on the Nintendo DS, 
 with the exception of a 2-D circle for the monkey ball, and with the combination of great gameplay, 
 this is definitely one of the best DS games I have seen so far.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: DJ_Nario
Rating: 7
Date: Feb 23, 2006 8:36 pm PT
Review:  Every time a Super Monkey Ball is released, I get it. I absolutely love the series, and would be 
 proud to call it my favorite puzzle series of all time. But when this game came out, I was disappointed... 
 big time.
  
  Gameplay - This game was meant for the touch screen, but obviously failed at doing so. It was very 
 un-reactive and would not even come close to comparing the Banana Joystick used in the Japanese 
 arcade game, Monkey Ball (Before it was released to the gamecube as Super Monkey Ball) . However, 
 you can use the D-Pad as well. It is fairly reactive, but still not as demanding and accurate as 
 the analog stick on the gamecube controller, thus, making certain levels a hair away from success.
 
  
  Graphics - The environments are stunning. It's amazing to see how big they are and how well they 
 look. Whether it be waterfalls or space, it's amazing. However, all the floors of every level in 
 every world look the same, except the colors on them change from world to world. That, my friend, 
 is lack of effort.
  
  Sound - Speaking of lack of effort, the music stank worse than Mario's armpit after partying for 
 seven years in a row. About half of it was Latin Percussion mixed with toddler instruments, and 
 the rest were horrible attempts to making "good" Super Monkey Ball music. Only 4 songs fit their 
 worlds, and they were the Ice world, the Meteorite world, the Big Bang world, and the Spaceship 
 world. Not to mention those were only to be barely compared to that of the original. Of course, 
 the SFX were just fine, but that only takes care of 5 out of the 6 points I gave for sound. ^_^
 
  
  Value - The touch screen was un-responsive, there was no Challenge mode (That had Beginner, Advance, 
 or Expert - A MUST) , there were no Extra levels (! - A MUST) ; the game just strayed way too far 
 from the original overall.
  
  Reviewer's Tilt - I just wished they turned Super Monkey Ball for the gamecube into DS format, 
 that, or they could've at least kept it similar to all the other ones before it. I never ever won 
 a stage with the touch screen and I find this game to be a lack of effort. Trust me, I'm a fan-boy 
 of this series - for I'd give Super Monkey Ball 1, 2, & Advance a 9.0 any day (DX would deserve 
 an 8.0 however) - but the way this game strayed too far from the others and how pathetic all of 
 the music and new levels were, ugh, I'd rather stick with the one for GBA.
  
  Overall - Use the D-Pad, listen to Evanescence while playing, get dizzy by the environments, notice 
 the lack of effort, and listen to this review. Now, of course, if you've NEVER played a Super Monkey 
 Ball in your entire life, this game is for you. But for those who are experienced, such as PackAttack, 
 SmilingJack13, and me, this game is nowhere close to what it could've been.
  
  AV should've worked on this game... T_T
  
  Final Score: 7.1 - Good. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DanStearn
Rating: 8.7
Date: Feb 21, 2006 12:12 pm PT
Review:  Super Monkey ball touch and roll is a superb game. Explore 6 marvelous mini games which really 
 are a credit to sega. Theres the highly original ice hockey, in which you draw the mallet you 
 use, a tremendous game of mini golf, a great addition, along with bowling, racing, a punching game 
 and a first person shooter. But the real excitement is the main game. Ok so the controls are not 
 perfect, being the games only flaw, but the graphics are outstanding. The same quality of some 
 of the games you see on the psp. I was really impressed. The sound is ok, nothing amazing, it just 
 blends in. but you dont stop and think Oh my god this audio is terrible. Anyway, I usually have 
 my own tracks on whilst playing games. Anyhow, to sum it up, Super Monkey Ball DS is one of the 
 best games Ive played on, and comes second in my top 5, beaten only by Warioware.
  
  1. Wario
  2. Super Monkey Ball
  3. Advance wars
  4. Mario 64
  5. Yoshi touch and go 
 
  
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
