-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Super Princess Peach
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/ds/action/superprincesspeach/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 Great to see Peach as the protagonist for once.
 Fun, colorful visual style.
 Vibe powers put unique spin on 2D platformer standards.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 Way too easy for the average platformer player.
 Some weird sexist undercurrents in the game design.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Feb 24, 2006
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 7.2
Critic Score: 7.6, 58 Review (s)
User Score: 8.1, 1,041 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Nintendo
Developer: TOSE
Genre: 2D Platformer
Date: Feb 27, 2006
ESRB: Everyone

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
It's a neat bit of role-reversal for Peach, and it does a good job of defining itself outside the 
 Mario formula, but the game is just too easy for its own good. 

  Now that Princess Peach has spent two decades in near-constant peril, the tables have finally turned. 
 Like some kind of Yakov Smirnoff routine come to life, Super Princess Peach sees the perennial 
 damsel in distress fighting through goombas and koopa troopers to rescue Mario and Luigi from Bowser's 
 evil, turtle-y clutches. Despite its familiar cast and plenty of nods to well-worn Super Mario 
 Bros. concepts, Super Princess Peach establishes a more laid-back gameplay style while also offering 
 a sunny look and feel that still manages to fits into the world of the Mushroom Kingdom. It's not 
 really a substitute for a real Super Mario Bros. experience, and the gameplay is much too forgiving, 
 which keeps the experience from being engaging. Still, the game is put together well and it's charming 
 and fairly fun, even if it is a bit too easy.  

          On Vibe Island, princess saves  you ! What an island!     

  Not far from the Mushroom 
 Kingdom there is, apparently, this place called Vibe Island, which is where, according to legend, 
 the powerful Vibe Scepter is hidden. Hearing of this legend, Bowser seeks out and acquires the 
 Vibe Scepter and uses its bizarre and rather ill-defined powers to bum-rush Mario and Luigi, taking 
 them, and a number of toads, captive. Luckily, Princess Peach was out for a stroll when Bowser 
 made his offensive, leaving her and her incredibly versatile talking umbrella, Perry, to venture 
 to Vibe Island and save the day. Oddly, after the initial setup, the rest of the narrative concerns 
 itself solely with Perry's backstory. It's all done with black-and-white dream sequences between 
 levels and in such a way that seems purposely muddled, but it's not very involving and it eventually 
 peters out.  

  Like any good 2D platforming hero, Princess Peach can run, jump, and hop on top of enemies. She 
 can also use Perry in a number of rather versatile ways -- he can be swung at enemies, used to glide 
 through the air short distances, used as a boat, and, in some situations, used to slide along lengthy 
 sets of rails or as a submarine. Additional abilities can be purchased in the game's between-level 
 shop, such as ground-pound attack and the ability to charge up and throw energy attacks at enemies. 
 But Peach's greatest powers are her emotions. Along with her heart-based health meter, Peach has 
 a vibe meter, which you can draw from with one of the four heart icons present on the lower screen. 
 The icons correspond to four different moods -- joy, rage, gloom, and calm. Joy will cause Peach 
 to float through the air in a rather happy cyclone. Rage causes her to become engulfed in flames 
 and makes her really heavy. Gloom causes huge gouts of tears to pour from Peach's eyes, and it 
 also gives her the ability to run really fast. Lastly, calm restores lost health.  

  Save for calm, which is useful only when you're low on hearts, the vibe powers are vital for getting 
 through each level and solving some simple environmental puzzles. Joy can obviously make it possible 
 to fly up to hard-to-reach platforms, while you can use rage to burn through wooden bridges to 
 reach otherwise inaccessible areas, and gloom can be used to put out fires, make plants grow, or 
 traipse across delicate platforms that would otherwise break away under your feet.  

  It can take you a minute to figure out which vibe power to use the first few times you hit a roadblock, 
 but eventually the obstacles become pretty apparent. Each of the game's eight levels is also punctuated 
 with a boss fight that will require liberal use of one or more of your vibe powers, and if you 
 can't figure out which one to use, the game will provide you with some not-so-subtle hints right 
 before you enter the fracas. The boss fights always revolve around some kind of giant, angry animal 
 and will quickly become predictable. Also, there's something rather sexist about the idea that 
 Princess Peach's big secret weapon is that she can get really overly emotional at the drop of a 
 hat.  

  In each level you'll find various items to collect, such as puzzle pieces, music tests, and minigames, 
 but most importantly, in each level there are three toads that have been locked up in cages. Thought 
 it's not necessary to free all three toads in each level to advance, once you reach the end of 
 all eight levels and are ready to face Bowser, you won't be allowed to advance until you've freed 
 all the toads leading up to the final battle. Even if you make sure you free all the toads before 
 that point, you'll find yourself doing a little bit of backtracking, due to the kind of circular, 
 serpentine design of most levels, which contain loads of side paths, hidden areas, and green warp 
 pipes that will loop back to an earlier point in the level.  

  But the adventure doesn't end once you've bested Bowser and liberated the Mushroom Kingdom. Additional 
 collectible items are placed in the levels that you've already played through, and new, much more 
 challenging levels are added. All told, there's easily a good 10-plus hours of playtime in Super 
 Princess Peach, but the real question is whether you'll feel compelled to keep playing. The post-Bowser 
 stages definitely offer a much more challenging experience, but by that point, Peach has become 
 so much more powerful than when she started that it's almost a zero-sum, which is indicative of 
 the game's biggest problem: lack of challenge.  

  Except for your final encounter with Bowser, the game is too easy and too forgiving for its own 
 good. Peach starts out with three heart containers, which means she can get hit six times in a 
 row before dying. However, if she has any vibe meter available, she can use the calm vibe power 
 to restore her own health, though random health pickups are plentiful, too, and as you advance 
 through the game you can give Peach up to a total of five heart containers. Even if you do die, 
 the only consequence is that you'll have to go through the level you died in over again. It's kind 
 of a shame, because there are some really clever platforming designs in Super Princess Peach, but 
 the experience is undercut by lackadaisical difficulty.  

          Just because she's a girl shouldn't mean Peach can't handle more of a challenge.     

 
  It may not be particularly tough, but Super Princess Peach makes up for it, somewhat, by being 
 really easy on the eyes. As you would expect from a quasi-Mario game, the 2D, sprite-based graphics 
 are vibrant and colorful. Though there aren't many original characters in Super Princess Peach, 
 you'll see lots of familiar faces redrawn to create a look that is familiarly sunny and playful, 
 but in its own unique way. Each of the eight stages you'll go through might hit kind of predictable 
 themes -- there's the haunted house level, the cloud level, the volcano level, the forest level, 
 and so on -- but lots of layered effects and nice use of parallax scrolling help imbue them with 
 depth and some unique character. The sound avoids being overly derivative by creating its own set 
 of upbeat musical themes, many of which are rife with plucked strings and steel drum sounds.  

 
  Those looking for the next great Super Mario Bros. experience will undoubtedly be let down by 
 Super Princess Peach and will have to wait for New Super Mario Bros. for their next opportunity. 
 Super Princess Peach is still a fun platformer with a fair amount of cutesy charm, one that takes 
 great steps to differentiate itself from the series it's derived from. The competence with which 
 Super Princess Peach is made makes it a wonderful introduction to 2D platformers for the young, 
 the casual, or the uninitiated, but experienced platform players won't find enough challenge to 
 sink their teeth into.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (68 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: Sillygostly
Rating: 7.5
Date: Mar 2, 2009 2:09 am PT
Review:  The Good : Cute colourful graphics. Pays tribute to the much loved Super Mario Bros. series. You 
 can play as Princess Peach! Plenty of levels and collectables.
  
  The Bad : The game can be insultingly easy with unsubtle "hints" being thrown at you at every turn; 
 and if that wasn't bad enough, the "emotion"-driven gameplay is blatantly sexist. Minimal replay 
 value. Bizarre, incomprehensible story.
  
  --
  
  Princess Peach... all the guys want her and all the girls want to be her... well... not really, 
 but the game was certainly a lot of fun while it lasted. Without straying too far from the Super 
 Mario formula, it's part SMB and part Yoshi's Island in its presentation and level design. The 
 levels are also no where near as linear as the traditional SMB games, and SPP adopts a cute art 
 style which brings in an element of femininity uncommon to the SMB series.
  
  The game is relatively easy for more experienced players, so those seeking more a challenge can 
 give this game a miss, however the experience in and of itself is enjoyable enough to justify a 
 rental at the least.
  
  The most unique element of SPP is its emotion-driven gameplay, which, while sexist, allows Peach 
 to harness powers based on over-the-top displays of emotion (and these are joy, anger, sadness 
 and happiness) ; however, these emotions can only be harnessed as long as Peach has "vibes" in her 
 vibe-meter. Don't let the jargon throw you off; it's actually quite straight-forward in the context 
 of the game, and the game is hardly challenging with your little talking umbrella guiding you through 
 every facet of the game.
  
  Super Princess Peach is recommendable for the more casual gamer, however, those seeking a fun side-scroller 
 in the spirit of the Mario series will also find plenty of like about Super Princess Peach despite 
 its arguably superficial flaws. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MadSomeone
Rating: 7
Date: Jan 14, 2009 12:38 pm PT
Review:  A warning before we begin: don't expect Super Princess Peach to be the next Mario World. Using 
 the 'Super' prefix might suggest that this is in some way comparable with classic SNES outings 
 like Yoshi's Island, but in fact this pared-down, simplistic and obvious take on Nintendo's own 
 classic platformers doesn't come close to replicating the joy of its predecessors. Still, being 
 half as good as Yoshi's Island is no disgrace, and when you get past the slightly nauseating stench 
 of perfume and flowers and lovely pink dresses in this heavy-handedly targeted 'girl's game', you'll 
 still find some real Nintendo magic.
  
  
  Let's get the disappointing stuff out of the way, starting with the use of the dual screen technology 
 - or, rather, lack of it. Super Princess Peach is lazy, basically. While the game plays out on 
 the top screen, the bottom is reserved for Peach's four 'vibes', her moods - and subsequent abilities 
 - that you can activate via the stylus if you have enough juice in your bar. It's low key, underwhelming 
 and really just a gimmick. With nothing assigned to the shoulder buttons either, you get the feeling 
 this is a game shoehorned onto the DS rather than developed specifically for it.
  
  Another complaint is that it's easy. Really easy. Saying it limps into double figures in terms 
 of playing hours would be five hours too generous. This is defiantly feminine in its outlook, ramming 
 pink-drenched platforming in your eyes from the get-go. Whether that, as Nintendo presumably hopes, 
 will appeal to the same ladies who went out and bought, say, Nintendogs, remains to be seen, but 
 the lack of longevity is a problem whichever way you shake it. Yes, this conforms to Miyamoto's 
 long-talked-of wish for simpler, shorter games, but we'd imagine there'll be disappointment across 
 the board at the lack of challenge here, whatever your gender, however good at games you are.
 
  
  And yet, despite a lack of lifespan and touch screening, it works - really well. Sticking like 
 glue to the patented Nintendo platforming masterplan means Super Princess Peach is constantly playable, 
 typically compelling and immensely rewarding. It's also got a kind of dewy-eyed retro joy going 
 on, as it dips into the back catalogue to bring out Toads, Goombas, Piranha Plants, Warp Pipes 
 and Koopa Troopas. Strip away the Nintendo universe and you'd be left with a decent little adventure; 
 add the best set of characters in videogames and suddenly this becomes something much more. 
  
  
  
  The Mario formula is evident everywhere, from the level design to the acres of hidden 
 areas to the end-of-level bosses, but Peach does throw a couple of new additions into the mix. 
 One is her umbrella, Perry (stick with us) , who offers protection against some foes, and - best 
 of all - allows Peach to sail across water. Perry (and Peach) can be 'upgraded' too, in the game's 
 Toad-run shop; as you accrue more gold coins, there's plenty of things to spend your cash on, though 
 most are normally parallel to Peach's Vibe powers. 
  
  Elastic Fantastic
  We'd be bending the truth if we said Super Princess Peach was surprising, especially given its 
 only partial interest in the dual screen and the fact it sticks so closely to its forebears, and 
 yet the main game will occasionally come up with something unexpected. Like when you're asked to 
 get Peach to the top of a level using 'elastic' catapult-style platforms. The rub is, each platform 
 is operated with the stylus, and you have to plot Peach's course around enemies via a waypoint. 
 It's beautifully simple and great fun - it's just a shame that it lasts for about 30 seconds. 
 
  
  But then that's Super Princess Peach in a nutshell: packed with moments that aren't fully exploited. 
 Still, while it might not be 
  the best platformer ever made - hell, it's not even the best platformer on the DS - if there's 
 one thing Super Princess Peach does do, it's keep you enthralled until the all-too-sudden end 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TissueShoe
Rating: 8
Date: Nov 19, 2008 6:49 pm PT
Review:  Positive:
  + emotions are well-implemented into the gameplay
  + cool upgrades can be bought with coins
  + you can save any time
  + very nice looking graphics
 
  + lots of stuff to collect
  + really fun
  
  Negative:
  - (for guys) a little too 'cute'
  - WAY too easy
  
  Mario has had his fair share of 2-D platformers 
 in his day, most (if not all) of which have been highly praised and well liked. Now Nintendo has 
 dared to do something different: Peach has to save Mario in this very unique DS 2-D game that somehow 
 manages to be incredibly fun and worthwhile. 
  
  WHAT? Mario's been captured? Apparently. "Peach, don't go save him!" Toadsworth pleads. "OK," Peach 
 says only to set out for Vibe Island a few minutes later, where Mario and Co. are being held (against 
 their will) by Bowser. So that's how our adventure starts. And then Peach goes around Vibe Island 
 and eventually saves Mario and everybody. Hooray!
  
  The game progresses in the very linear fashion that most 2-D platformers do: you beat a level, 
 go to the next one, and repeat. Of course you can backtrack and replay any given level in the game 
 you've already beaten, which is good because there are a few things to collect that you may have 
 missed the first time.
  
  These things include Toads (3 in each level) ; puzzle pieces, and occasionally music tracks. This 
 puts a pretty big number on just how much stuff there is to find in the game and makes it last 
 a lot longer than if you just played through to the last level. You can also buy upgrades (extra 
 health, new abilities, etc.) at the shop with the coins you collect in the level, which also adds 
 a lot to the game.
  
  The gameplay is pretty unique and very enjoyable. It plays differently from Mario games, especially 
 in that you can press B to hit an enemy with your umbrella and use emotions to progress in the 
 level and solve puzzles. Tapping one of the hearts on the touch screen activates these emotions. 
 You can be angry (engulfs Peach in flames) , sad (makes Peach cry like a fountain) , kind of happy 
 (makes Peach recover health) , or happier (makes Peach able to fly) . These are implemented into 
 the gameplay well and come into play enough to keep you into them but aren't overused to the point 
 where you get tired of them.
  
  Wait, what's all this talk about hearts and umbrellas? One of the things I didn't like about the 
 game (as a guy) was just how 'cute' it was. I mean I should have seen it coming of course as it 
 is that kind of game, but the sheer fun of it shouldn't keep guys from ignoring it for its looks.
 
  
  The main downside to the game is just how easy it is. Any slightly experienced gamer should have 
 no difficulties getting through the entire game, maybe one or two failed attempts to beat a level 
 or boss but other than that it's easy rolling all the way through. I can almost guarantee you won't 
 get stuck in any given area for more than ten seconds. It's not a particularly short game; it's 
 just really easy.
  
  Super Princess Peach's graphics are very nicely done. They are very smooth and the colors are vibrant, 
 and the frame rate is very smooth as well. The style is entirely 2-D, no 3-D character models or 
 anything here, but the visuals are done just about as well as they possibly could have been. The 
 sound is also good with nice music and relevant sound effects (after playing a game like Sonic 
 Chronicles, the word 'relevant' actually seems like it could actually apply to sound effects as 
 that game had really strange sounds) .
  
  Overall, Super Princess Peach is just a really fun game. Sure it's really easy and some guys won't 
 like all the cuteness, but that still doesn't hurt just how enjoyable it is. Add that to all the 
 stuff to collect and some very nice graphics and you have a hugely worthwhile game that will thoroughly 
 entertain you and make you realize that Peach CAN be the star of a game, and a great one at that!
 
  
  Gameplay: 8.5
  Grahpics: 8.5
  Sound: 7.5
  Value: 8
  
  FINAL SCORE: 8.1/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: LORDCOSMOS
Rating: 7.5
Date: Nov 2, 2008 10:59 pm PT
Review:  Super Princess Peach marks the very first game starring Mario's oft-endangered love interest. This 
 time the tables are turned, as Mario is now kidnapped, and only Peach can rescue him! Hold on to 
 your shirts, gamers, prepare for minds blown!
  
  Mario is missing, this time Princess Peach'll have a turn kicking some butt. While Princess Peach 
 most certainly borrows liberally from Mario games, this game plays quite differently from a certain 
 plumber's outings. The meat of the gameplay remains true to a mario-style 2D platformer; with a 
 few notable twists. First is how Peach does power-ups. Let's explain; Peach has both a life bar 
 and a mana bar, the mana bar can be used for 4 different emotion-based spells. Now, I know you 
 must be saying 'emotion-based spells' 'how the heck does that work' and 'my, that sounds rather 
 lame'. The 4 spells or 'vibes' as they're called are Joy, Sadness, Rage, and Love. The Rage vibe 
 turns peach into a fiery inferno, stomping on her enemies with far more force than normal. The 
 Sadness vibe turns Peach into an emotional mess, causing her to a) run around hysterically at faster-than 
 normal speed, with b) huge streams of tears running in large parabolas in either direction.
  The Joy vibe engulfs Peach in a small-scale Tornado, letting her fly in the air in an elated state. 
 The last vibe you'll use (and by far one of the reasons this game feels overpowered or easy) is 
 the Love vibe. When Peach is on the outs, in a near-death experience with some spikey guys or flying 
 turtles, activating the Love vibe conjures a green healing aura around Peach, active until she 
 is at full health, or runs out of mana. The careful balance of using these 4 spells for both gameplay 
 and puzzle solving is the heart of what makes Super Princess Peach stand out. For the most part 
 these vibe puzzles are implemented well, are simple, and provide further justification for *not* 
 including classic Mario power-ups. Combat is also a departure from the Mario games. Peach's dainty 
 hooves lack the manly, mustaccio'ed kick of Mario's, so Peach must use another method to dispatch 
 enemies. The vibes work nicely in certain situations where you need to kill a great lot of foes 
 very quickly, but for your average goomba melee, Peach uses an umbrella with magical (perhaps daemonic?) 
 powers. A simple slap in the face is enough for your average Koopa lackey, yet there are more advanced 
 moves to unlock as you progress. Expect an umbrella-powered butt-stomp (a 'la Wario Land) , a charged 
 umbrella 'shot' (a 'la metroid/zelda) , an 'umbrella-hover' kindof move (a 'la Yoshi's weird foot-grinding 
 hover move) , with a great slidetackle move to boot. In short, Peach's moveset is for the most part 
 varied, and fitting for any given situation you're likely to encounter. This is one of the reasons 
 Super Princess Peach makes for a solid platformer. Another key move you'll need to use is Peach's 
 ability to spear/skewer enemies, and subsequently consume them using her daemonic umbrella to restore 
 mana. While it's all 100% decidedly cute and kid-friendly, something about using an umbrella to 
 squeeze mana out of unsuspecting goomba's, then theoretically dispose of their used husks strikes 
 me as well, rather unsettling. Story sequences are sparse, and usually involve Peach's daemonic 
 umbrella reliving his days as a simple country boy. Or something. As far as touch controls go, 
 you'll have to tap the touch screen for each vibe, easily done with a thumb with one's stylus sheathed. 
 Each stage also has a pretty easy touch-screen minigame; tap boulders/ghosts/ fireballs/etc. so 
 they don't hit peach. There's also a pretty fun trampoline one, stretch to launch peach real high!
 
  
  Submarine and strange 'zip-line' levels add further variety. The game pretty much excels from an 
 A/V standpoint. No complaints, whatsoever. Music majors might want to play on mute. PRO'S
  -Great looking, very bright and colorful graphics
  -It's Peach! In her very first starring videogame 
 role! You sir must have a heart ot stone to resist her wiles. -A pretty varied moveset, though 
 you'll be hankering for 'classic' mario-style powerups. Peach's moves seem contrived, overpowered, 
 and generally cheap. What mario game in recent memory LETS YOU HEAL YOURSELF. You heard right, 
 Peach can heal herself. -Overall solid platforming action, lots of secrets throughout levels. -a 
 good deal of extras, minigames, unlockables, a new game+ sort of mode with unlockable hidden levels, 
 boss challenges. It's worth noting that you must find 3 toads in each level to finish the game. 
 -daemonic umbrella powers (UMBRELLAS CAN ALSO STOP BULLETS DEAD IN THEIR TRACKS) (Do Not Attempt)
 
  
  CON'S
  -quite short, in comparison to super mario world.
  -in a word... EASY. Expect to breeze through this game. Part of what makes a good Mario game great, 
 is the overall variety and depth of challenge in the game. Peach, for veteran 2D platform players, 
 simply is lacking in this. Expect to easily surmount any obstacles you will ever have with this 
 game.
  -overall feeling that, given some tweaking, this game could have easily been something very, very 
 special. -Close, but no cigar. 7.5/10 'as if!'
  
  'good vibrations' 'a solid classic style platformer with a twist, Peach proves that a girl can 
 hold her own once in a while, should the Mushroom Kingdom be in peril....'
  
  FINAL VERDICT:
  
  if you absolutely must, are looking for a 'break', are a peach fan, by all 
 means. All others; your far better off seeking out a copy of Wario Land 4 for GBA. Even still, 
 quite, definitely solid. No real complaints, outside of the (lack) of difficulty. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nintendofan404
Rating: 8
Date: Aug 24, 2008 6:35 pm PT
Review:  You play Princess Peach who has returned one day from a walk to find Bowser has kidnapped Mario 
 and Luigi along with some Toads. You have an umbrella which talks to you and gives you advice the 
 umbrella can also change form and shape to help you. As you collect coins you can purchase upgrades 
 to aid you on your journey, This game is great along with peach's abilities she can get angry and 
 start fire's, cry and shoot jets of water around, be joyful and fly, and become cheerful and regain 
 health. This game is a must have for any Mario fan it really gives you a different view from the 
 whole Mario saving Peach story. All and all this game is worth it so go out and buy it, its a great 
 game entertaining and fun to play anytime. Princess Peach is really a great game it may take some 
 getting used to but when you get what you need it can become very enjoyable. Really i can't really 
 find anything wrong with it except the bosses can get somewhat annoying with the quirky controls 
 and all but beside that its all good. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ShadowSonic20
Rating: 8
Date: Aug 23, 2008 10:33 am PT
Review:  To reverse the monogamy of regular Mario games, or its antithesis so to speak, that one's for you, 
 DK, you play as Princess Peach as Mario, Luigi, and numerous Toads are captured by the infamous 
 Bowser, who has made his new castle at mysterious Vibe Island. Can she overcome the odds and save 
 the Mushroom Kingdom's most illustrious heroes? Only with your help... only with your help.
  
  Through some odd, and I mean like... really, really odd... twist of fate, the Princess will meet 
 up with this magical umbrella, named Perry, before she takes off on her adventure. Perry quickly 
 becomes essential to Peach's journey, as she uses him for everything. With the umbrella, Peach 
 has a few attacks and moves she can perform. Her main attacks are jumping, whacking, and sliding. 
 With most enemies, you can whack them with Perry and they will be thrown off screen instantly. 
 However, it is usually more valuable to jump on an enemy, flipping them over. Once you do this, 
 you can pick them up and toss them as a weapon, or press down on the D-pad to absorb them using 
 Perry. This is helpful in refilling your Vibe Meter.
  
  Your Vibe Meter is very important in the progression of the game and should be kept full if possible. 
 The Vibe Meter allows you to use Peach's emotions on the bottom screen. Peach has four different 
 emotions: Joy, Rage, Gloom, and Calm. These emotions each have multiple functions that can facilitate 
 different goals. The Joy emotion allows Peach to create a cycle around herself, to float upwards; 
 the Rage emotion surrounds the Princess in flames; the Gloom emotion makes Peach cry; while the 
 Calm emotion revives Peach's health. These emotions can all be easily chosen by tapping the desired 
 heart/emotion on the touch screen.
  
  Also, there is this store, and you can purchase many things from it, including three new moves. 
 These include allowing Peach to use Perry to glide in the air and float for a short period of time; 
 be able to perform a ground pound; and the ability to shoot a charged shot from Perry.
  
  Other things that can be bartered from the shop from using your hard earned coins, are status-enhancing 
 items, music, puzzle pieces, and extra levels in mini-games.
  
  The status-enhancing items increase the size of your Vibe Meter and add hearts to your health meter, 
 as well as a few extra things.
  
  You can find some of the songs, puzzle pieces, and mini-games in the actual levels, but for the 
 rest, you must purchase them from the shop. The songs are just like a Sound Test in most games, 
 although you have to purchase each song if you want to listen to it.
  
  There are multiple puzzles that you can play and attempt to solve, saving your fastest time, but 
 before you are allowed to test your skills, you must collect all the pieces for that puzzle. You 
 have to buy about half of the pieces, while the others are scattered throughout the eight worlds 
 that Super Princess Peach has to offer.
  
  There are also three mini-games, each of which must be found in the world of the game, and each 
 of which have ten levels. All the extra levels must be purchased from the shop of course. Like 
 most of the items you must purchase, the price increases as you move up in each section.
  
  The other features of the menu, of which you can select at the world or level map, are the Glossary 
 and Bonus sections. The glossary is pretty cool, as it displays all the enemies you have come into 
 contact with. It is quite a long list too, as there is a large variety of enemies; mostly familiar 
 ones that have been in numerous Mario games. It is nice to see the return of some classic enemies. 
 Also, the enemies are effected by emotions, so some of them will be crying, or happy, or angry, 
 which alters their attacks and movement. It is important to be aware of this fact.
  
  The Bonus section is kind of lame. It merely shows you Perry's dreams that you have unlocked, each 
 of which is unlocked after you beat a boss in each world. These dreams slowly reveal the truth 
 behind Perry's current circumstance.
  
  Like I briefly mentioned, there are eight worlds, each of which have five or six levels, plus the 
 boss level. Each world is very unique and different from each other, including, but not limited 
 to, a lava world, an ice world, and a cloud world. Each level is fairly lengthy, with multiple 
 routes thanks to excessive warp pipes.
  
  There is a task you need to accomplish in each level, although you do not have to do so to progress 
 from level to level and world to world. In each level, there are three Toads that need to be rescued 
 from their pink box prisons. You must simply find them and destroy the little box they are in. 
 A lame part, is that while you do not need to find any of the toads to progress in the game, you 
 MUST find them ALL in order to play the final boss in the game. So, if you are like me, you will 
 find yourself replaying a few levels in order to find those two or three toads that you need in 
 order to beat the  I mean, Toads. Yeah, it's a little frustrating.
 
  
  Anyhoos, at the end of each world, you must fight ze boss; sock le blue, in perfect French. Before 
 you actually fight the boss however, you play in a little mini-game in which you control the outcome 
 using your stylus and touch screen. In other words, these little levels before the boss are centered 
 around using the touch screen. Unfortunately, there are only three real different levels, so with 
 eight worlds, you will be replaying the same themes a couple times...
  
  The bosses themselves however are all very cool and different from one another, requiring different 
 techniques and strategies for defeating.
  
  Other than that stuff, some cool features worth mentioning are that there are three save files, 
 you can save at any point, even mid-level, the game is rumble pak-enabled, and the title screen 
 will display either night or day, depending on what time of day it is. It has no effect, but ya 
 know, it's cool... sorta.
  
  
  So, that's about it really. The game has been said to be very simple and too easy. I do not really 
 share that view, as many of the levels are not all THAT easy, and some are frustrating, however 
 using the Joy emotion to fly distances can be used to "cheat" and create shortcuts for yourself 
 from doing certain things, which definitely can make some tasks very simple. But overall, the game 
 is not a breeze, and will require the one to play for numerous hours in order to complete each 
 world, so the gamer will find much fun with playing through each level, as well as replay value 
 with the mini-games and puzzles that are available, and always can be replayed for a higher score.
 
  
  And it's ok... if you are a guy, you CAN buy the game without too much flack from retailers. I mean, 
 it's not THAT embarrassing... mostly... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Tireyo643
Rating: 7.5
Date: Dec 22, 2008 6:26 pm PT
Review:  Super Princess Peach is a good alternative to all the Mario games, but it's not what it could be. 
 The game is short and can be disappointing to many Mario fans. Peach has four types of moods to 
 help her on her adventure. Rage (PMS Mode) , Joy (Mary Poppins without the umbrella, or Super-bimbo) , 
 Gloom (You better watch out, we might have a leak!) , and Calm (Like she just had a SBD Fart but 
 has no effect on smell) . This review might not be funny to some, but at least I tried! Peach is 
 cool, but at times she can act quite ditsy. Anyways, her moods make it easier to play the game. 
 Peach can't float like she did on Super Mario Bros. 2 and The Super Smash Bros. series. What's 
 up with that? Oh well, at least she has the umbrella! And at least Mario and Luigi are the victims 
 instead of her! I give Super Princess Peach a good rating of 7.5 because Nintendo could of done 
 better with the material and elements in the game. The graphics are beautiful, and some music can 
 be quite catchy. Also, The layout of the game is good, but not good for length. If you're considering 
 getting this game, you might want to hold back and play the New Super Mario Bros. for DS first. 
 Otherwise, if you can rent it or read other reviews, then try it out or read about customer satisfaction 
 on the game before you buy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MangoLlamas
Rating: 10
Date: Jul 19, 2008 1:31 am PT
Review:  We all remembered mario to be the brother of luigi, who seeks to save peach from the hands of bowser 
 and his army of shy guys. Peach on the other hand, was the beautiful princess who would never resort 
 to fighting and was named after a fruit...
  
  Peach now becomes a stand-alone ready to fight army of emotions, and alternating between the emotions 
 changes the settings and unveils the next set of initiatives. Using her parcell to glide through 
 the gentle summers breeze, am I sure this is the same Peach? No, no, Peach makes a new name for 
 herself in this peach style mario game.
  
  Recalling the good ol' days where jumping acrobatics was a good way to destroy incoming goombas, 
 it is safe to say that Peach infected the formula,  Fighting with 
 your umbrella and maneavuring across the bald headed goomba midgets is the new fad.
  
  Yes, somehow this brilliant game managed to flush mario down the drain, and covered up the hole 
 with a plug. Relieving the plumber of his duty, Super Princess Peach is coming soon to a shelf 
 in your room... (I hope)
  
  Finally, I would like to think of Super Princess Peach as a sight to behold. Not many games are 
 made with such elegance, and other games are just too hard to progress through. Though the "toughness" 
 I want to say calls for a little more tweaks, all in all this is a fabulous game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: albertojz356
Rating: 4
Date: Mar 30, 2008 8:21 am PT
Review:  The game is pretty good, it's not too short and is just as fun as any Mario sidescrolling game. 
 The sad part is that this game portrays the same useless bimbo princess as someone who can only 
 fight with mood swings. I don't like that, it could be alot better off without it. The character 
 itself is a degrading tool, plus this is just foolness.
  
  However the game features a lot cool stuff the Bimbo can use such as her umbrella Perry. She takes 
 the lead to rescue someone else rather than to get rescued. In my opinion she would be better off 
 without the game.
  
  As I explained before her character is already a stereotype, and them ethod of fighting in this 
 game worsens everything. If you don't mind that fact then I do admit that this would be a fun game. 
 But a game that degrades any gender is not for me. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: warlock_gamer
Rating: 3
Date: Mar 8, 2008 6:58 am PT
Review:  I wont write a long review on this game so what i will do is just quickly tell you how much this 
 game smells of used bra hanging out of a trash can (not that i ever smelt them, honest) .
  
  Peach has four vibes on the touch screen, each giving her different abilities for example crying, 
 anger, joy and whatever the fourth one is. Once you activate them you see her whining when crying 
 or giggling like shes on weed and for some reason it will make you blink and you'll look around 
 making sure no one is watching you play this game.
  
  It's far too simple, far far too simple, really it is. The aim is to look for the three toads on 
 each level in order to fight the last boss. They're so easy to find because if you see Peach with 
 an exclamation mark on her head (i think she hears a toad fart) the toad becomes very easy to find. 
 It's really that simple.
  
  The graphics are nice but it looks like a Gameboy Advance game than a DS title so theres no wow 
 factor there im afraid. It has a bit of depth with the mini games involving saving the toads but 
 then you'll start to enjoy killing them instead of saving them (don't you think they're annoying?) . 
 Then you can collect the puzzle pieces and music pieces to see Peach perform (like i want to see 
 that ) but its just plain boring. It isn't a Mario game and thats the bottom line. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: buttpuke
Rating: 7
Date: Feb 4, 2008 1:21 pm PT
Review:  Super Princess Peach is a bit of a dumbed-down Mario Bros. You take on the role of Peach in this 
 platformer on a mission to rescue Mario... It's about time Peach got her own game. She was my fav 
 in Super Mario 2 and I have been looking forward to seeing her return to the platforming genre 
 for some time.
  
  This game is pretty straight-forward. Jump here, jump there. Players are rewarded for exploring 
 each level thoroughly with secret puzzle pieces and musical scores that can be accessed as distractions 
 from the main game. All the mini games and extras feel tacked on and aren't particularly fun. They 
 seem to be just there for the heck of it.
  
  The main game is fun, though a bit lacking in the challenge department. Anyone with a background 
 in Mario games will breeze through this one with no real difficulty. With a refillable energy bar 
 taking place of standard mushrooms and other power-ups that you lose when getting hit, it seems 
 unlikely that you with find yourself in danger of dying unless you have Shaq-sized thumbs and can't 
 maneuver the D-Pad. Boss fights consist of finding weaknesses, which may be the most challenge 
 you will face, and hitting that spot until you win. Nothing new or particularly difficult there. 
 The pre-boss levels that require you to guide Peach through obstacles just doesn't seem to fit 
 and feels gimmicky.
  
  The enjoyment for me came with exploiting Peach's PMS powers. I am a bit surprised that none of 
 the ladies are upset that Peach gets her strength from going into sudden rage, crying, and unexplainable 
 joy. Is Peach going through a "life change?" Her power system seems a little sexist to me, though 
 I found it hilarious. Will Mario have a boner power-up in his next game? The ability to do pogo 
 jumps by bouncing on his pelvis?
  
  All in all, Super Peach is a fun game for fans of the series and newbs alike. It just isn't very 
 challenging and that kills any replay value. It's like beating up the retarded kid at school. Sure, 
 it's fun for a while but then it's like "what's the point?" You'll want to move on to something 
 else in a week. I don't know that it's worth the $35 price of admission... though definitely a rental. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: melchenyi
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 9, 2008 4:05 pm PT
Review:  Princess Peach is one of the best platformers I have played. You not only jump around or punch 
 monsters, but you can use Peach's ability to open certain places or platforms which you cannot 
 go to.
  
  The main aim is to save the toads, Mario and Luigi from the Big Boss Bowser, there are 5 stages 
 in each level and also a big boss at each level. Peach has 4 abilities: Sad, Angry, Cheery and 
 Happy. Each ability has to be used on certain levels to be able to save all the toads. 
  
  I was adamant at getting it in the first place because my friend said it was too difficult to kill 
 the big bosses. And I didn't like games that were too hard, especially Yoshi's Island ( I couldn't 
 be bothered completing it) , but Princess Peach is way easier compared to it. The only difficult 
 part are the puzzling doors which you go through at times and the hardest monster is of course 
 Bowser in the end.
  
  So overall, a very fun game to play and very colourful. Great for everyone who loves plat-formers 
 but with an easier play level. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: liugeaux
Rating: 8.5
Date: Sep 1, 2007 11:47 am PT
Review:  Yes, Super Princess Peach is easy but that is the beauty of it. Any experienced Mario gamer can 
 fly through it really fast probably without dieing. What's so cool about princess peach is that 
 even my wife wanted to play it. Great graphics and sounds are great but if my wife wants to play 
 a game that says alot of the title. The depth of the game comes with trying to save all the toads, 
 collect the puzzle pieces and songs. I was able to casually pick up and play SPP for about a week 
 without stressing on where to go next and what I have to do to beat the level. Its just a simple 
 does of solid enjoyable gameplay. By being so widely obtainable, SPP surpasses some of its counterparts 
 in quality. (example: Yoshi's Island DS) 2D platformers' audience is much different than it was 
 15 years ago and now that everyone owns a DS SPP is really close to a must own. Alot of people 
 may not agree with me, but I really like strolling through this game and suggest that more people 
 do so too. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MarioManiac34
Rating: 9.1
Date: Aug 14, 2007 9:15 am PT
Review:  The DS has practically revived 2D side-scrollers. There are so many great ones on the system. Some 
 of these titles include the likes of New Super Mario Bros., Sonic Rush, and Yoshis Island DS. 
 Critics reviews and consumers pockets alike have praised all of these games. However, theres 
 one title I left off that list that deserves just as much, if not more, recognition: Super Princess 
 Peach. Released in February of 2006, I personally think it was somewhat lost in the hype leading 
 up to New Super Mario Bros. That said, the game did sell fairly well and critics didnt give it 
 bad scores, but Super Princess Peach still deserves more. It is an amazing game that is not to 
 be missed.
  
  However, that does not mean the game is without its problems, the biggest one being the story. 
 Apparently, not too far away from the Mushroom Kingdom exists Vibe Island. Hidden on this island 
 is the powerful Vibe Scepter. Bowser discovers it and uses his newfound power to kidnap Mario, 
 Luigi, and some Toads. Thankfully, Peach is gone for a walk when the kidnapping happens. It is 
 now up to her to save everyone. This, while not the best of videogame stories, does its job of 
 tying the game together.
  
  The weak aspect of the story has to do with Peachs talking umbrella, Perry. There is a side story 
 revolving her and one of her lost relatives. Sadly, this is told in black and white cut scenes 
 that are very unappetizing to watch. Also, its hard to tell whats going on in these cut scenes. 
 All of this would be bearable, however, if the story was actually good. Sadly, though, its not, 
 with the biggest problem being that it doesnt really conclude at the end of the game. It just 
 leaves you hanging and wondering what happens next.
  
  Thankfully, this doesnt ruin the game, as Super Princess Peach is still a blast to play. The basic 
 goal of the game, like any platformer, is to make it to the right side of the screen. However, 
 how SPP does this is unique. Thanks to Vibe Island, Peach has four different emotional powers at 
 her disposal. These range from Gloom (crying streams of tears) to Calm (which restores Peachs 
 health) . Each of these powers is implemented very well into the games eight worlds. They dont 
 feel gimmicky at all, and youll have to use them quite often.
  
  However, you cant us them all the time, as there is a Vibe Gauge that shows how much Vibe power 
 you have left. When the Vibe Gauge runs out, you wont be able to use your emoti-powers until 
 you refill the gauge. Perry the umbrella is the main way you do this. She can scoop up enemies 
 and then absorb them to fill up the Vibe Gauge.
  
  Perry also has other powers. Some of these youll have at the start of the game, others you can 
 purchase from a shop, and still others can be found throughout the games levels. Most of these 
 abilities are quite fun, but there is one that feels quite gimmicky and tacked on. This power enables 
 Perry to turn into a submarine and allows Peach to swim underwater. The gimmicky part of this is 
 that to shoot your weapon  water bubbles  youll have to blow into the microphone. This feels 
 very forced, like the developers felt like they just had to make use of the microphone somehow. 
 However, you dont use the submarine a ton, and it wont make you not enjoy the game.
  
  Coincidentally, this is how most of Super Princess Peachs gameplay problems feel. They are unfavorable, 
 but they dont detract a whole lot from the overall experience. One of these problems is the games 
 bosses. A lot of them are repeats from Super Mario Sunshine for Gamecube. Also, the way you beat 
 these bosses is essentially the same as in SMS. While this isnt a huge deal, it wouldve been 
 nice if the development team had put in some more effort on making the bosses original.
  
  One aspect of SPP that might turn off some players is its difficulty. While it does have its hard 
 spots, youll be able to breeze through most of the game without any trouble. However, I still 
 enjoyed the game very much, despite it not providing a huge challenge.
  
  Even if you find SPP to be easy, it doesnt matter, because youll still be playing the game for 
 a long time. After you beat the main game, you can go back through the levels to find new collectibles. 
 Also, there are twenty-four all-new levels that are jam-packed with goodies as well. These goodies 
 actually have a purpose, too. For example, if you get all the puzzle pieces, youll be able to 
 play eight different jigsaw puzzles. Also, there are three different minigames that you can collect 
 new levels for. If that werent enough, theres also music notes scattered throughout the levels 
 that add a new tune to the Music Room, which is where you can listen to all of the songs youve 
 discovered.
  
  And youll want to listen to it, as Super Princess Peachs soundtrack is expertly composed. The 
 music is almost all, if not completely, original, and each different world has unique music. For 
 example, in the cloud world the music is very cheerful and whimsical, where as in Bowsers Villa 
 the music is much more eerie-sounding. To accompany the wonderful tunes, SPP delivers excellent 
 sound effects. Probably the aspect that stands out the most about the sound is the voice acting. 
 OK, its not really voice acting, more like voice snippets, but all of it is very well done. Like 
 the music, you can listen to the voiceovers in the Music Room.
  
  The audio isnt the only aspect of SPPs presentation that is done well. The graphics also excel. 
 They have a hand-drawn look to them and, for the most part, are very clean and crisp looking. Also, 
 everything, from Peach to the lowliest enemy (Im looking at you, Goomba) is very detailed. You 
 can even see Peachs jewelry - thats how detailed the graphics are. In addition to that, theres 
 also a lot of variety to the different worlds. Each has a distinct look to it, from the trees of 
 Hoos Wood to the spooky corridors of Shriek Mansion.
  
  Two small complaints about the presentation: Though the graphics and sound in Super Princess Peach 
 are terrific, I do have one small complaint about each. To start with the audio, sometimes the 
 instruments playing the music can get repetitive, like theres not a ton of variety in the sound 
 of the different songs. As for the visuals, every once in a while there will be some shading that 
 doesnt look quite right. One example is on the leaves of the plants in the environments. They 
 just look like they couldve been shaded a lot better. Anyways, both of these gripes are hardly 
 worth noting, but I felt like I should mention them since this is a review, and not a glorifying 
 ad for the game!
  
  I just have one more thing to say. If you dont want this game by now, then my review has not done 
 its job. Super Princess Peach is an excellent game. While its story does suffer, the rest of the 
 game makes up for it. SPPs gameplay is unique, its music beautiful, and its graphics gorgeous. 
 On top of all that, the game has quite a bit of lasting appeal in the form of items to collect, 
 new levels to explore, and extras to delve into. All in all, Super Princess Peach provides a truly 
 masterful experience that is not to be missed. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Links14
Rating: 8.8
Date: Jul 5, 2007 5:02 pm PT
Review:  I love this game. I am a fan of Mario game and when I heard that Princess Peach was going to be 
 a star in a game I had to get it. Instead of Mario saving Peach. Peach saves Mario and Luigi which 
 I loved. This game is kind of long but it is real easy and I MEAN REAL EASY to beat. After you 
 beat the game once you can play it again and when you do you unlock more levels. There is no wi- 
 fi for the game and if there was I think it would be dumb. There is one more thing you should know 
 about this game. There is a star man with shades on and u have to kill him but he is soooo annoying. 
 YOU BARLEY SEE HIM AND i STILL DIDN'T KILL HIM. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tails_and_mario
Rating: 9
Date: Jul 3, 2007 3:58 pm PT
Review:  In Super Princess Peach, Mario has been kidnapped by Bowser, who has control of the Vibe Sceptre, 
 which controls emotions. Toadsworth gives Peach a talking umbrella named Perry, who has a mysterious 
 past and unbelievable strength. Now, with 4 powerful emotions (Joy, Gloom, Calm, and Anger) and 
 a kick-butt umbrella as her weapon of choice, Peach sets out on a adventure to save her boyfriend, 
 his brother, and Toad! The controls and graphics are classic Mario, and the music is catchy and 
 upbeat. The game is aimed at girls, but boys definitely should give it a try. The mood controls 
 used with the touch screen are fun to use (burn stuff with anger, grow plants with he tears, fly 
 with Joy, heal with Calm) and there are three unlockable mini-games where Toad is the star. You 
 can even do puzzles and buy power-ups! The game is vibrant and silly, and the best thing about 
 this game is a true girl power theme- Girls kick butt! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: arthas242000
Rating: 7.8
Date: Jun 25, 2007 8:55 pm PT
Review:  ~Intro - I remember when I first picked up Super Princess Peach. It was two days earlier than the 
 actual release date, which to me was totally awesome; but to the cashier was completely insane. 
 The guy was like: What the hell is this? I replied: It's Super Princess Peach, instead of playing 
 Mario or Luigi, you take the role of Peach and rescue the plumber brothers. I can still remember 
 that weirded out face he gave me. Like trying to express how odd it was for someone to purchasing 
 a game he would never even consider. The funny thing is that he wasn't the last person to give 
 me that sort of look. Every single friend of my asked the same question: Why did you buy that stupid 
 game?? Which I always responded by saying: Try it before you knock it brother man!! 
  
  ~Gameplay - Super princess peach isn't your typical Mario adventure. First princess peach possess 
 some pretty sweet powers that are based around stereotypical womanly emotions. Personally, I find 
 it hilarious that peach's powers stem from how she is currently feeling. I know that all those 
 feminist lesbians out there will take offense to these womanly stereotypes; to which I say shut 
 up and go bake a pie or something!! I'm just kidding; was it a low blow to women, not really because 
 without these powers peach would just be a helplessly boring character with no abilities. The hardest 
 part to understand of this game is that in previous iterations, peach is the person that is being 
 saved. So how in the hell is it that she can randomly acquire this umbrella that she uses and gain 
 magical powers strong enough to not only defeat bowers but rescue the same guys that have defeated 
 bowers for so many generations. The point being that the gameplay is fun and just as awesome as 
 any previous Mario game minus the special abilities like growing in size or being able to fly. 
 Peach has her own abilities like gliding in the air after a jump or being able to use her umbrella 
 like a sail boat, but nothing that truly matches Mario's arsenal. As I stated before, this is the 
 biggest let down; the fact that the developers couldn't come up with something more interesting 
 than peach's different emotions. The gameplay mechanics are solid and fun, but nothing amazing 
 like introducing Yoshi, or being able to fly with the cape. It sad to because I think they really 
 could have done a lot with peach; but they opted to go the easy way out. Other than this the structure 
 of the game as well as the environments are all decent again nothing amazing.
  
  ~Graphics - Graphically, this game has the most style out of any Mario handheld ever created. Just 
 look at the art style and tell me if you have ever seen any Mario game look that different. I'm 
 glad that they went with a unique style, because this really sets Super Princess Peach apart from 
 being just another Mario spin-off. Overall, I think they did a great job creating a new unique 
 style for peach.
  
  ~Sound - The sound effects and music in Super Princess Peach is decent but nothing special. Which 
 to me is a huge let down seeing how awesome other Mario games music has been. To me, it seems like 
 they didn't even try to create something new for peach. All the music sounds generic and doesn't 
 really present anything memorable; again another let down.
  
  ~Conclusion - Basically, this game is a watered down Mario game with worst gameplay and generic 
 music. Which may seem bad but then again we are comparing this game to some of the greatest games 
 ever created. The bottom line is this game is unique enough to be considered in its own merit the 
 only problem is when you take it out of the Mario realm it becomes another generic platformer. 
 With the Mario touch; it becomes a lot better and worth it, but only to the hardcore Nintendo fans. 
 So all those suckers that bought Luigi's Mansion come on and spend more money on a decent game 
 that would normally tank without the Mario tag. P. S I bought Luigi's Mansion for the same reason 
 I bought Super Princess Peach. I have a blood oath with Nintendo which states that I have to buy 
 any game that even mentions Mario's presences. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: skreetpreacha
Rating: 8.5
Date: Aug 18, 2007 10:38 pm PT
Review:  Gameplay: The gameplay in this 2D platformer is suprisingly good. As you may have heard, YES, it's 
 easy. But not because the levels are short or lack creativity. On the contrary, the levels have 
 very similar design to that of Yoshi's Island games, and are quite lengthy and innovative. The 
 levels in SPP are just a tad easier, as there are lots of ways to keep your health. You start out 
 with 3 hearts, but can buy more as you earn money. Each hit you take, counts off half a heart. 
 So without replenishing your health, you can take 6 hits at bare minimum to die in a level. But, 
 there are also plenty of hearts throughout the levels, and you can use one of your vibes to heal 
 yourself too. (more on vibes in a minute) . Even if you accidentally fall in a lava pit, it only 
 takes away half a heart instead of an instant death like other Mario/Yoshi platformers. Peach has 
 an assortment of abilites, mostly all linked to her umbrella, named Perry. She can swipe at them 
 to knock them out. She can scoop them over her head and either throw them, set them down, or by 
 pressing down, swallow them. Swallowing them builds your vibe meter. You can also buy various abilities 
 as you go through the game, including one to make you float longer during jumps, etc. Besides your 
 health meter, Peach relies also on her vibe meter. The touch screen displays Peach's vibe meter 
 while in a level. You can touch on one of 4 different vibes to activate special powers for a limited 
 time. One makes peach float very high in a whirlwind of joy. Another surrounds Peach an invincible 
 flame of anger, another makes Peach cry tears of sadness and another simply replenishes Peach's 
 health. Besides the health one, the other 3 are used often to overcome certain obstacles in the 
 levels and boss fights. This makes for great use of the DS touch screen in this game. You'll also 
 utilize the touch screen for entrance to boss fights, as you have to manuever some sort of mini-game. 
 Hardly challenging, yet still fun. As with most Mario-type games nowadays, you can also unlock 
 regular mini-games through the course of the game, to be played at the main menu. These all utilize 
 the touch screen and/or microphone on the DS. Most of em are pretty simple though, and not quite 
 as good as the mini-games found on NSMB. Graphics: The graphics here are very nice and clean for 
 a 2D platformer. As good as you're gonna get in that fashion. Comparable to Yoshi's Island again. 
 But, this is the DS, and it's capable of more, as we saw in NSMB. Sound: Pretty good here. The 
 soundtracks for the levers are cute and kiddy, like most Mario games. The sound effects are also 
 good and appropriate for each in-game action. The great thing is that you can unlock every sound 
 in the game to hear in the game menu at will. For some reason, I appreciate that, maybe because 
 I'm a music person. Value: 5 levels to a world, 8 worlds, equals 40 levels or so. Plus mini-games, 
 plus MANY things to unlock after completing the main story quest. Plus you also must find all 3 
 mini-toadstools in each level to be able to enter Bowser's castle at the end. (You can complete 
 the levels without finding the Toads) . The toads are fairly easy to find and can mostly be done 
 without having to backtrack. After completing the main story mode, those secret toad areas now 
 contain unlockables like songs from the game, and puzzle pieces. Then you can access all the music 
 from the game from the game menu. You can also play a few minigames (which aren't great) , and put 
 together Peach puzzles using the touch screen (kinda fun) . Tilt: If you enjoyed Yoshi's Island 
 for the GBA or DS, you should enjoy this too. It's style is VERY similar, though this game is much 
 easier. As long as it's fun to play, I don't care how easy or hard games are. And this game is 
 very fun to play and pretty original in it's use of the DS's touch screen. I reccomend this game 
 for any fans of the Mario/Yoshi series and platformers in general. The only people who may not 
 enjoy this game are those gamers who just hate easy games or kiddish ones like these. God bless 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: yodariquo
Rating: 6.7
Date: Mar 6, 2007 3:36 pm PT
Review:  Super Princess Peach
  Things aren't so peachy for the Princess
  
  Presentation (10%) - 6
  Controls (17.5%) - 8
  Variety (25%) - 9
  Audio (7.5%) - 10
  Depth 
 (15%) - 5
  Value &amp; Fun (25%) - 4
  
  OVERALL - 6.75 
  
  My Review Policy:
  http://www. gamespot. com/pages/profile/show_blog_entry. php? topic_id=m-100-24801077&amp; user=yodariquo
 
  
  --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
  Gameplay Outline
  --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
  
  Super Princess Peach is a sidescrolling platformer. You take control of Peach and try to get her 
 to the end of the level by avoiding enemies and jumpin gaps. She hearts for health and a magic 
 meter for her abilities.
  
  --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
  Dedication 
 Meter - 70%
  --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
  
  Sidescrollers 
 typically don't take much of your time and dedication. However, Super Princess Peach's levels tend 
 to drag on because of the branching paths, and the fact that you must collect things to finish 
 the game is a massive issue. More on that in Value &amp; Fun.
  
  --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
  Presentation 
 - 6
  --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
  
  The sprites look really nice in the game, with an art style of Super Mario World meets Yoshi's 
 Island. The animations are a little on the simplistic side, but not to the point of negativity. 
 The issues come from a lack of direction. There are branching paths that you're expected to explore, 
 but no map, and no way to look down, resulting in the bad design of leaps of faith .
  
  Also on the issue of branching paths is the fact that there is absolutely no continuity when it 
 comes to the pipes. You can go down pipes to enter another area, as in Mario games, however that 
 area seems to stand on its own. You could go down a pipe, go running far to the right, go up a 
 pipe, and end up left of where you started, or worse, in the exact same place. This basically leads 
 to random wandering until you find the right place.
  
  There's a very simplistic, weird, confusing backstory for Peach's umbrella told through dream sequences. 
 It's hard to tell what's happening, and you don't really know until they outright tell you.
  
  --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
  Controls 
 - 8
  --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
  
  The controls are simplistic, yet overly complicated. By default, you run, which works better than 
 it sounds, but is still a little loose compared to the typical hold a button to run. The R button 
 is used to walk slowly (very slowly) but is essentially useless. You're only expected to use it 
 in the instance of special blocks that break when you walk normally on them, but you can manage 
 without, or with sleeping enemies, which aren't dangerous enough to matter.
  
  You also have access to four special abilities available via the touch screen. The icons are large 
 so that you can press them using your thumb, but makes using it quickly unrealistic. Also, each 
 ability drains a magic meter, and to turn off the ability, you have to press the same icon, which 
 can be annoying if you press the wrong one. Pressing the wrong icon is easy to do, also, because 
 you are only accessing them in instances and they aren't constantly accessed like other buttons.
 
  
  And there are special instances where the controls are mixed up, such as underwater where you blow 
 in the microphone to shoot bubbles, or various ways in minigames. These work to varying degrees, 
 but always fairly well. Blowing in the microphone can be annoying, but is responsive.
  
  --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
  Variety - 9
 
  --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
  
  There a lot of content in Super Princess Peach, albeit somewhat tacked on. There are multiple minigames, 
 puzzles, several different bosses, various collectibles and a shop to buy all sorts of things, 
 including items to improve Peach and her utility umbrella.
  
  Peach's abilities, accessed via the touch screen, correspond to her emotions. These emotions are 
 calm, which heals, anger, which engulfs her in flame, sad, which causes her to run fast and spread 
 tears, and joy, which allows her to fly and create cyclones. These are used to solve rudimentary 
 puzzles to gather collectibles as well as defeat bosses.
  
  The game is a bit short on levels, though, at a total of 40. Each level takes a while due to the 
 combinations of directional issues and branching paths to obnoxiously hide said collectibles. The 
 40 levels are split into eight worlds, with five related levels, and a boss fight at the end. The 
 bosses have two attacks and are defeated by one of Peach's abilities.
  
  The enemies are a standout as not only are there a very wide variety of inclusions from throughout 
 the Mario games, but they are also varied in that they act differently depending on their emotion, 
 which can be calm, sad, happy or angry.
  
  The shop is something that could be a progressive thing when it comes to even the Mario games. 
 You can purchase improvements on Peach's health and magic meter, as well as various additions to 
 her umbrella, such as the ability to float. Aside from that, you can purchase minigame levels, 
 puzzle pieces, and songs for soundtest. These are all bought using coins collected during the game.
 
  
  --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
  Audio - 10
  --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
  
  The audio is the definite standout. You hardly ever have to listen to Peach's voice but rather 
 an excellent variety of catchy tunes that fit the levels perfectly. There's not much more to say 
 about the music. The Toads' little voice clips are quite cute unto themselves.
  
  --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
  Depth - 5
 
  --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
  
  Super Princess Peach really isn't much about skill or thought, but rather patience. There's not 
 much that is trying as long as you're willing to take it slowly. The environmental puzzles are 
 blatantly pointed out to you, which just means you have to make sure you have enough in your magic 
 meter to do whatever you're expected.
  
  The bosses give a surprising challenge. It's still not particularly difficult, but success isn't 
 a given, either. There's little use for the abilities outside of puzzles, for a combination of 
 having to conserve magic as well as anger and sadness essentially being useless.
  
  --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
  Value &amp; 
 Fun - 4
  --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
  
  The game is short, and yet a drag. Levels are laid out somewhat like a Metroid game, only that 
 there's no real exploration, but rather random wandering, and without reward. You're expected to 
 search out these collectibles with a lack of direction in the level. Because of the level design, 
 there's a distinct lack of pitfalls, which leads to a distinct lack of platforming. And when there 
 are pitfalls, it's usually poorly laid out in that you aren't sure whether there is ground beneath 
 you to land or not. The enemies, while varied, seem randomly placed.
  
  There is too much dependence on collecting the three toads in every level. The worst thing about 
 the game is that it fails to inform you until the last boss about its horrible design choice -- 
 you have to collect every single toad before you can finish the game. Not only is it not something 
 that would be worth doing as an optional, it's being forced.
  
  The minigames are completion based rather than high score, so finishing the level is the key. But 
 once you've beaten them once, there's little reason to go back again. There is a scoring system, 
 though, so if you wanted, you could try and improve.
  
  --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
  Overall - 6.75
 
  --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
  
  This almost feels as though it's breaking my rating system. Super Princess Peach is just not recommended. 
 It has generally poor design and just an overall lack of fun, or even uniqueness. And you essentially 
 can't finish the game unless you go through it all twice. Sorry Princess, but our Mario is in another 
 league. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Flawie
Rating: 7.6
Date: Jan 5, 2007 9:58 am PT
Review:  Note about my Final Verdicts. They are not meant to be reviews on how you play the game and what 
 its all about. My verdicts always assumes that you know what the game is all about. I always recommend 
 reading GameSpots reviews before reading my own verdicts. Im not here to tell you how to play a 
 game. Im just telling you whats good and whats bad about a game you already know. ---------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
  
  + Nice twist in the oh so intriguing Super Mario story. The Mario brothers gets kidnapped and the 
 PRINCESS gets to save them. Actually feels really fresh, believe it or not. If you are a big fan 
 of Super Mario you will also appriciate it.
  
  + New gameplay elements and some grenremixing into the Super Mario platform formula. The basics 
 are the same. Its a platform game and you progress through such levels in various themes ranging 
 from grassland to winterland to the deep forests. This time around tho, they have brought in some 
 cool RPG elements. 1-You have heartcontainers. No more eating mushrooms and getting bigger and 
 taking 2 hits to die (or 1 if no mushroom has been eaten) . You start out with 3 heart containers 
 and you can buy more at a shop in between levels. 2 - You have a mana meter and abilities to go 
 with it. Peach has 4 abilities. Happiness, that makes her fly or conjure cyclones. Anger, that 
 sets her on fire and burns things as well as making her really heavy. Sadness, that makes her cry 
 rivers of water and run really fast and lastly you have another kind of happiness that regenerates 
 health for mana.
  
  + New gameplay elements continued : These abilites are used very nicely to create depth to the 
 otherwise standard platform levels. Often to help you find hidden Toads that are spread across 
 the levels. The Shop is also a nice addition. Instead of collecting coins for 1up&acute; s. You 
 collect them to actually buy stuff. Lots of stuff. Everything from hearts to a longer Vibe (read: 
 Mana) meter to fun puzzles and minigames that can be played on the side of the main Adventure. Peach 
 can also learn NEW abilites like flying with her umbrella and smashing enemies for coins. All of 
 this comes together to create a deeper and different mario-platformer.
  
  + This game will last for a long time. In addition to completing the main adventure (that is pretty 
 long) you can go back to make sure you have found all of the toads on all of the levels. You can 
 also go back to find puzzlepieces and stagemusic that can be played in a musicplayer. You can also 
 go grind more money to buy more puzzles, music and even fun minigames starring the Toads. Then 
 when you finally have all of the puzzles and minigames I bet you can have fun with those for a 
 while longer. Good lastingvalue !
  
  + Nice graphical design. As usual when it comes to The Mushroom Kingdom its all cozy with warm 
 and vivid colors. Clouds have happy faces and all of the colours of the rainbow are frequently 
 used. And it always works. The backgrounds in particular are extra nice this time. The enemies 
 also have alot more detail to them.
  
  ---------------------------------------------------------------------------
  
  - The levels 
 starts to feel pretty uninspired and repetative after a while. The overall level design are nowher 
 near the greater titles in the Super Mario universe. When you&acute; re closing in on the end you 
 start to feel like you are playing the same levels over and over but with different skins on them.
 
  
  - The gameplay isnt as fun as the standard Mario gameplay. The princess can smash enemies, fly 
 with her umbrella, cry, spin, catch on fire and regenerate health but when it all comes around 
 I rather just jump on enemies with Mario. Somehow i started to lose interest in continuing playing 
 and it all just started to feel like a grind for getting Toads.
  
  - Overall the game is to easy for its own good. Since Peach can do sooo many things and since there 
 is no way you can get Game Over the challenge lies more in finding stuff and getting money rather 
 than completing the levels. If the levels would have been more challenging and more fun to begin 
 with this grind might have felt more motivated.
  
  - The missing Mario feel . I dont know why, maybe its because they have changed so much but somehow 
 i never feel like im playing a Mariogame. I feel like im playing a game made by some 3rd party 
 developer rather than Nintendo themselves. Theres something missing for the right Mario feel to 
 be there.
  
  - The Music. The music isnt nearly as catchy as it usually is when it comes to a Mario title. Its 
 sometimes down right annoying to listen to. Its nothing you want to hear MORE of in the included 
 musicplayer, thats for sure !
  
  ---------------------------------------------------------------------------
  
  Final Score: 
 7.6
  
  Its a fresh wind to the Mario universe and it has alot of things to do for the dedicated but it 
 lacks the finesse, the Nintendomagic and the creativity to get to play with the big boys. It sure 
 is a solid product with a fantastic design to it but the motivation drops as you play it. If you 
 have a child that want to play a DS platformer, this might be just the thing for you ! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ThunderEight
Rating: 8.3
Date: Dec 30, 2006 9:27 am PT
Review:  So we all know the story... Princess Peach is walking along doing something... and then along comes 
 the big bad guys and kidnaps her and now Mario has to save her. Blah, blah, blah we've heard it 
 all before right. Sure the story may get boring but the games have always been great... but this 
 time things have changed. Luigi and Mario have disappeared... and Princess Peach must come to the 
 rescue.
  
  Game-play: Peach and her magical umbrella go through the different levels saving toads, building 
 up, and finally saving both Luigi and Mario. Along the way you have to use different vibes as they 
 are called to complete the level. These vibes play an intricate part of the game and it is important 
 to keep them available at all times... you never know when you may need them.
  
  There is something that is a little unsettling about this game though. The different vibe choices 
 taht Nintendo chose. Some poeple have stated it could be taken to be a little sexist. I think some 
 people might be digging to hard for something. All in all this is just a fun game to play. Check 
 it out for your DS. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hianhwee
Rating: 6
Date: Nov 9, 2006 7:25 am PT
Review:  In general terms this is a pretty simple game for most of the players, especially one has played 
 new super mario. it bears simple graphics with fast loading. the colors are not as rich as other 
 mario games since it is in pastel shades and geared towards the girls' preferences. for me, i prefer 
 super rich tones. audio is alright as each stage plays a different tune. perry, the brolly, always 
 sleep and dreamt of its past at the end of each boss stage. in the final stage, it knows that he 
 is a boy being turned to an umbrella by a wizard. by staying close to Princess Peach, he hopes 
 to find back his grandfather before his captivity by the wizard in his childhood days. i feel it 
 is a bit draggy on the story instalments and not much depth.
  
  for a person who is not so good in navigation (like me) , i tend to spend slightly longer time to 
 capture all the Toads. each level has 5 stages before one gets to fight the level's boss. in order 
 to reach each level boss stage, you have to save all toads within the stages. obviously, the final 
 stage is to meet bowser, fight and kill him before saving mario and his companions.
  
  as a mario game fanatic, i would prefer to rent this game to play rather than own it. planning 
 to save it once i complete the game for 1 time though once beating bowser and saving mario, the 
 game expanded all its stages by another 3 stages. my 3 friends, only played 1 round... so far, 
 i am not tempted to do it another time. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: link_1000
Rating: 6.9
Date: Oct 28, 2006 9:13 am PT
Review:  Super Princess Peach is like a Super Mario Bros. for newbies. It is the extremely easy, simplified 
 version of the Mario Bros. amazing platformer games. Of course, its not nearly as good being a 
 piece of cake (especially since Super Mario Bros. and New Super Mario Bros. are rather easy games 
 as well) but its has a little unique feel to it and is still a fun game, up to a point.
  
  Visually, the game isnt that great. Its full of bright colors, lots of them. So many yellows, 
 red, oranges, and light blues hurt my eyes rather than look goodalso not a lot of detail is put 
 into the enemies and the locations make the graphics pretty sub-par. The sound is actually alright. 
 At first its as annoying (the cheery, kiddy tone) , being high-pitched and awful, but youll get 
 used to it and its actually all right.
  
  The control of this game is rather simple, you are Peach rescuing Mario (shocker!) and you have 
 to go through 7 worlds spanning 4-5 levels to rescue him. The levels are decently long (Think of 
 shorter than Super Mario World 2, but longer than Super Mario World and New Super Mario Bros.) ; 
 you go through (at a very slow pace I might add) , stomp on enemies and jump and go places to get 
 to the end of the level. To make it easier though, Peach has an umbrella, which she attacks with, 
 as well as scoop up, then use them to re-gain heart power (more on that in a second) . She has hearts 
 at the top of the screen, which means she has at least 3 lives per level, not the 1 that mario 
 bros. games have. Sometimes she has 6, depending on how much damage an enemy does (usually &frac12; 
 to 1 heart of damage) . Again, this makes the game ridiculously easy. There are little obstacles 
 in the levels, its jump and scoop up enemies, etc. But one unique thing to make the levels interesting 
 are Peach has 4 unique powers; which she can use on a separate heart bar. They are on the lower 
 screen as 4 hearts. (BTW, you wont be able to play the game AND use the stylus, so prepare to 
 get thumb smudges on the bottom screen) One lets you gain altitude in an area; another lets you 
 have fire around you, burning through bridges and killing all enemies; another one is she can cry, 
 making her run fast across areas that normally fall underneath you, as well as water things; and 
 the last one (the cheapest one) restores almost all your vitality. And remember, since you can 
 capture enemies then swallow them with the umbrella; it restores a little heart power, so swallowing 
 4-5 enemies lets you use it again; which makes it, again, ridiculously easy. The 4 powers add some 
 unique style and puzzles to the game, but overall it doesnt make the game have that much depth. 
 Also, 3 Toads are hidden in each level; which makes going back into a level again fun, as you have 
 secret stuff to find. And lets not even go into the dreadful touch-screen mini-games before every 
 boss  they are annoying, frustrating, and stupid.
  
  Like I already said, the game is short, you should have no problem beating it in just 5-10 hours 
 at most. Replay is alright, they could have had more hidden stuff in the levels. Also, the difficulty 
 really doesnt want you to go back and play an already easy game. Overall, Princess Peach is a 
 pretty fun game, the platforming elements from previous Mario Bros. games watered down and easier, 
 however. If you are new to platforming and not very good at it, this game is recommended. If you 
 have New Super Mario Bros. or any of the Super mario Advance titles and think they are too easy 
 or just right, I wouldnt recommend this. So if you want an easy, fun platformer, for the DS, this 
 is the game for you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: minks00
Rating: 7.4
Date: Sep 10, 2006 11:21 am PT
Review:  I got into this game on about the fourth level - this is once you get used to how to use your abilities 
 and vibes. After this I was addicted to the game although I wouldn't say it is that easy. You would 
 be forgiven for thinking it was an easy game from the graphics and the advertising it has received, 
 to be honest I was pleasantly surprised. Some of the bosses are challenging and you can clearly 
 see the difficulty level rising in each chapter. A couple of the bosses towards the end were so 
 frustrating as were a couple of the levels... not so much out of difficulty but just design. I 
 would recommend this to anyone who enjoys colourful platformers. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ThisisMurderous
Rating: 7.3
Date: Aug 21, 2006 7:22 am PT
Review:  Super Princess Peach is a very fun Mario game. Playing this is pretty much almost the same as playing 
 another 2d Mario, but you're Peach instead. The levels are fun but you will plow through them quickly 
 as there aren't that many. The worlds each have six levels but they are very short. Even saving 
 all the toads and everything won't take that long. But the levels are fun and each world does a 
 good boss battle at the end. I did like this game more than I thought I would though because Peach 
 does annoy me. This game is fun while it lasts but it ends too soon. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Angel-Gamer
Rating: 7.2
Date: Aug 20, 2006 9:42 am PT
Review:  Tired of always saving Princess Peach from Bowser, over and over again? No? Well tobad because 
 this time around its Mario and Luigi (and numorous Toads) being captured by Bowser.
  
  Bowser has built a summer villa on an island apperently close to The Mushroom Kingdom known as 
 Vibe Island. Here it is rumored that the mysterious Vibe Septor is held, once he steels it he rushes 
 Peach castle and captured Mario and Luigi. Fourtunatly Peach was out for a stroll when this happened, 
 leaving her unharmed. When hearing of what has happens Princess Peach sets out to Vibe Island to 
 save the Italian brothers. Partnered with her talking unbrella Perry and a variety of emotions. 
 Though the story does kinda fade and become more of Perry's back story, which is really not that 
 important.
  
  The first thing you will notice about this game is its cartoony and colorful feel to everything. 
 This game does hold all the original Mario Bros. enemies which is good but for some reason every 
 enemy is either - normal, sad or angry. Though the graphics are ok, but you will notice that if 
 anything gets big it you notice that the pixels and things get a little choppy.
  
  The biggest thing that Super Princess Peach is known for is her ability to have huge modd swings 
 in order to pass obsticles. What I mean by that the bottom screen is taken up by a diffrent emotion 
 in each corner. Her modds include Calm, Anger, Sad and Joy. Joy lets you create a cyclone around 
 you and fly. Anger makes you very heavy and lit on fire. Sad makes you very fast and huge giesers 
 of tears. Calm, which you will probably use the least, slowly restores your health.
  
  The worst part about Super Princess Peach is that its just to easy. There are a few things that 
 make it easy, one is that things are kinda slow. Like the enemies move slowly and things to crush 
 you move slow. You will probably end up using your vibe powers just to move through the level faster. 
 After the first about half an hour of learning what emotion for what obsticle but eventually it 
 gets easy. Also with every boss level there is a help box right before you enter the room that 
 tells you how to defeat it.
  
  Also you adventure through 8 levels, each with its own theme like ice, fire. Once you beat the 
 game once, you will unlock new stages for each new level so they length is pretty good. As for 
 replay value there isnt much, this game gets kinda old. There are in each stage 3 toads, you dont 
 have to get them all but once you get to the final stage you need them all to go in. You can also 
 unlock almost EVERY SINGLE sound and background music in the game. There all also a couple mini 
 games you can unlock that require you to use the stylus or the mic, but end up as febale attempts.
 
  
  In the end this game is a pretty regular platformer but its just to easy for its own good. If your 
 looking for something to really sink your teeth into, then look somewhere else. What really got 
 me though, is that this game had so much potential for a great game and they missed that. If they 
 are making a sequal and fixing as the mistakes then it could be a great game. Though if you are 
 looking for something to pass the time for a couple weeks then Super Princess Peach is what you 
 want. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: eee_master
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jul 26, 2006 3:07 pm PT
Review:  Super Princess peach is an interesting change in the Mario World. The game looks great and the 
 addition of vibes was not a bad idea. However, this may shy away the average male gamer as they 
 might be perceived not being manly enough to play this game. I will admit I too felt odd playing 
 this game but the game was never the less addictive I enjoyed this game very much for its unique 
 game play and story line.
  
  Some bad things though is the fact this game is LOOOOOOOOOOONG!!!!!! I found this game to be longer 
 than NSMB. The other thing is the fact that it looks like Yoshis island which gives me some bad 
 memories from the mid 90s hearing a baby Mario cry over and over and over again!!!
  
  Overall this game deserved its rating. I tremendously enjoyed it.
  
  Oh and guys.. You dont 
 have to tell anyone you are playing this game. When buying just claim its for you niece, daughter 
 etc. ;-)
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: sonic1288
Rating: 8.7
Date: Jul 22, 2006 5:27 pm PT
Review:  This game is great, but it's too easy to be one of my favorites. This game is just plain fun but 
 it can be improve a little.
  
  Gameplay (8) : It's too damn easy. I've almost beat the game within 1 hour. It is more recommended 
 for younger children.
  
  Graphics (10) : Need I say more? They can't get any better than this. Princess Peach looks HOT!
 
  
  Sound (9) : It's good, but the music is too kiddy. The sound effects get annoying sometimes.
  
 
  Value (8) : It's worth the $40, but it's too easy to get a 9.
  
  Tilt (9) : This game should've been better. It is Princess Peach's first game, but it's too easy 
 to be a mario game
  
  Overall Score: 8.7 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SpecialED1020
Rating: 6
Date: Jul 18, 2006 6:14 am PT
Review:  The game is ver original, but it just could of been delivered better. I bought it and couldn't 
 stop playing it. I played it for hours on end. But after a while you find yourself doing the same 
 old thing just different backround. The game itself is far the easy, you can breeze through the 
 levels in under 5 minutes, and the boos battles, should be a little challenging, but they're probably 
 the easyest thing in the game. The story is new to the franchise but originality can only get you 
 so far without good gameplay. The emotional powers are a good idea, but again the game is only 
 so good. Maybe if there is a sequel and they fix tese problems, it should shape up to be a ood 
 game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sonicknuckles45
Rating: 8.4
Date: Jul 7, 2006 9:16 pm PT
Review:  This is my favorite game in which a female is starred. I've liked Princess Peach since I was a 
 Mario fan. And she finally gets her own game. The gameplay gets an 8 because it's too easy for 
 my experience, but collecting stuff can get kind of difficult. The graphics are the best graphics 
 on the DS. They can't any better than this. I would give the value a 10, but (as i said before) 
 the game is too easy. Overall, it's a great game and it's not only for girls. It's also for boys. 
 If you don't have the game, buy it now. You get very addicted to it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: zero10999
Rating: 9.1
Date: Jul 4, 2006 9:18 am PT
Review:  To be honest, I first picked up this game simply because it was one of the very few DS games I 
 don't own (not counting the ones that suck of course) . I knew it was supposed to be pretty good 
 but I did not expect it to have any surprises in store. Now that I've played it for quite a while, 
 I can tell you that it is, hands-down, one of the best platformers on the Nintendo DS. My main 
 complaint with the game is that it IS a bit too easy. However, this is made up for by the incredible 
 amount of replayability and just overall fun. Personally, I've always found Mario games to be somewhat 
 too easy (except for the classics of course) , and I was very disapointed by the lack of replayability 
 in NEW Super Mario Bros. and Super Mario 64 DS, both of which I beat to perfection in about a week. 
 Super Princess Peach's levels are generally easy but have so many explorable elements and so many 
 things to find. I have yet to acually beat the game (I've had it for about 5 days) simply because 
 the game requires you to find every toad hidden in the previous levels in order to fight the final 
 boss. This makes the game last longer and ensures you'll keep playing for a while. But toads are 
 far from the only collectable in this game. It can honestly take a month or more of dedicated playing 
 to find everything this game holds. One such collectable is Music Scores which are basically the 
 game's sound test songs, but instead of just unlocking a sound test option when you beat the game, 
 you must find (or buy) each song seperately. It has an enemy glossary similar to Castlevania which 
 encourages you to defeat each new enemy. You can even find minigames where you use the screen to 
 control a Toad and you can buy new levels for them with the coins you find in Peach's levels. As 
 you can see, the is ALOT to do in this game and many of the things you have to find can be quite 
 challenging to reach, despite what I said about the game being easy. So, you may be embarrassed 
 to walk into your local game store and ask for Super Princess Peach, but trust me, it's well worth 
 it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: oceanshoreview
Rating: 8.2
Date: Jun 12, 2006 10:42 am PT
Review:  I think this game marks the first time in the 20 year history of Mario that he has been saved by 
 Peach. I could be wrong, but who cares, it was a good idea. 
  
  This goes back to the 2D platforming roots of mario, but puts you in the shoes of Princess Peach.... with 
 an umbrella. Mario has been captured and now it's your job as Peach to take your trusty umbrella 
 and your attitude and go save that little mustached plumber!
  
  As I said, this is an old school style 2D platformer, just your Peach instead of Mario. You'll 
 still be doing a lot of jumping and baddie smashing. However, you can now use your parasol as your 
 weapon instead of your shoes and your butt. Although this is cool and presents a bit of new "moves" 
 for you to perform, it makes the battles significantly easier. You can just run around swinging 
 and not have to worry much about precision. 
  
  Your emotions are also an addition to the combat as well as the platforming. There are certain 
 areas you cannot get through without certain emotions. For example, if you are on a wodden bridge 
 and you need to be below it you light on fire to burn the bridge. Or if you go across something 
 and the floor falls out try running across crying because you'll run faster. These are a neat addition 
 as well, although you'll basically find them used for the same thing all game instead of multiple 
 uses for each. 
  
  There are some fairly neat boss battles in the game that require you to use your emotions to stun 
 them then damage them. Mario has never had to famous of boss battles, and these won't be changing 
 that status any, but they do the job. 
  
  There are also a bunch of extras you can unlock by gaining coins and purchasing them from Toad 
 in between levels. These include new moves for your umbrella, health upgrades, emotional upgrades, 
 and mini games. Some will take quite a bit of coin collecting to get, but you'll get enough coins 
 from just playing the game once through to buy most of the important stuff. 
  
  The graphics have a nice 2D look that you would expect from a game like this. No awards will be 
 won here, but it's not terrible to look at or anything. Looks nice and clean. 
  
  After beating the game once you'll unlock an additional 3 levels to check out in each world. However, 
 you'll have to play through the other levels in each world again to be able to get to these. Some 
 of them are actually fairly challenging though which is nice since the main part of the game is 
 pretty easy. 
  
  All in all it's a fun little platformer to see life in the eyes of Peach. However, it slightly 
 feels like Nintendo made this for girls and in turn toned down the difficulty level as if they 
 couldn't handle a hardcore platformer or something. It's to bad, cause it definitly had to potential. 
 It was fun to run through and not to long so I'd say its worth a playthrough and hopefully we'll 
 be seeing more with this tone in the future. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SonicBalla
Rating: 8.3
Date: Dec 29, 2006 8:58 am PT
Review:  A good game just a bit short. The thing that would keep you playing this is the fact that to finish 
 the game you must find all the Toads although most are easy to find. Also because there are these 
 puzzles scattered all over the courses as well as music blocks which you listen to in the music 
 section on the menu. Pretty much the game isn't about saving mario and Luigi cause the umbrella 
 who is a alive and helps you through your journey takes up most of the story mode by showing it's 
 past when peach is about to go to sleep. Another thing about the story is that when the umbrella 
 dreams about his past the story about it starts all over the only difference is that he's going 
 to say something different. but the fun thing about this game is the Vibes. It's fun using them for 
 different obstacles and bosses. For example there is this Piranha plant in the first level that 
 you must use your crying vibe to fill it's belly with tears to make it full and tired. So really 
 if you want to get this game you should try renting or borrowing it first cause chances is you'll 
 finish it quick or you won't like it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Quadster
Rating: 10
Date: Jul 23, 2006 11:04 am PT
Review:  We do not see enough of these lovely ladies as the ones saving the guys, PERIOD! 
  Infact the closest we Nintendo gamers have had, to playing such characters was Super Mario Brothers 
 2 on the NES and up and also Public Domain hacks of roms (Yay for bedroom dev'ers)
  
  If we think about this carefully.... this wasn't actually the 1st time, Peach/Toadstool, saved Mario's 
 butt... think of The Super Mario Brothers - Super Show cartoon, and The Adventures of Super Mario 
 Brothers 3..... both early 90s Cartoons.
  In the Super Show, she seemed a little ditzy compared to The Super mario brothers 3 cartoon, where 
 she was more of a tomboy, outside of her royal dress (Anyone remember the episodes when Toadstool 
 (peach) went to see Milli Vanilli? or when she was on vacation away from the Mushroom Kingdom?..... if 
 you've seen her in that show you'll know she's got a headstrong sense about her, and not a Stereotype 
 Damsel in distress
  
  Anyway, getting back to the game, it's good to see peachy finally get a shot at Bowser Koopa after 
 always getting kidnapped... ( :D) and Super Princess Peach is not like it's just had Peach's character 
 sprite pasted in ontop of where Mario was (it's totally FRESH) 
  It's been tightened up so you can't use peach's SMB2 Float ability out of the box, which adds to 
 the challenge in the gameplay, and also has plenty to offer in terms of extras if you're wanting 
 to look for stuff.
  
  I must say, those who have said this game is too short are in my opinion, looking to complete the 
 game as fast as possible.... i prefer savouring a game for as long as possible.
  All very well looking at games in this way, but i like games to keep me coming back for more, this 
 game in a sense feels like i'm playing Super Mario Land 2 on the Game Boy... which was one of my 
 favourite GB Games (Next to Metroid 2)
  I say Super Mario Land 2 due to the Collect Mechanic of the Toads.... and the fact you need to collect 
 all the toads to enter Bowser's Castle. (6 golden coins to enter W/Mario's castle)
  
  All in all i've only been playing this game a few hours and i can already say, i love this game!
 
  Sure it ain't Super Mario Brothers or the New Super Mario Brothers.... but it's sure refreshing
 
  Worst thing about this game isn't the music, which in my opinion... is FANTASTIC (oh wait.... nothing 
 bad about this game at all) The graphics are lush and are exactly what i'd expect from The Super 
 Mario Universe.
  The Vibe system is very simple to use via touch screen, the platformer controls with the D-pad, 
 the intuitive mini games.
  As usual, with a Nintendo game, you've have to find and unlock most of the mini games collectables 
 thoughout the game.
  The fact that this game is too short??.... What The HELL??... TOO SHORT??... i've never heard people 
 complaining about Super Mario Brothers 3 when they can complete it in a 3-5 hour sitting (3 hours 
 for me :D) ..... just shut up and enjoy this great game... perfection from Nintendo like always. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Jdh77dsp
Rating: 8.7
Date: Apr 25, 2006 7:29 pm PT
Review:  I had wanted this game since the first time I heard about it but it is too easy and to short. I 
 had beat it in under three hours. For the first game starring Peach, this game should have been 
 so much better.
  
  Gameplay-9
  The gameplay got a nine, barley avoiding an eight. The vibes was yet another thing that made this 
 game way too easy. None of the boss ideas were original, a lot of them from Super Mario Sunshine. 
 You could not buy enough different extra weapons and power ups. Saving the Toads was pretty pointless. 
 The replay value is extremely poor, it gets old the first time playing through. The "brains" the 
 umbrella got weird after about thriteen minutes.
  
  Graphics-8
  The graphics were pretty good, for the game being a 2-D game but were not even close to being the 
 best. The background when you had to select the stage was another thing that brought it down. The 
 umbrella thing looked bad during the game and the other times like when selecting a stage or at 
 the shop.
  
  Sound-10
  The sound was really good. Peaches voice was one of the best parts of the sound, it was better 
 than Luigi's voice in a lot of games and his voice was really awesome. All the other little things 
 were other great things that the sound had to offer in this game.
  
  Value-9
  The value was pretty good in this game. The only improvment I could think of that brought it down 
 to a nine instead of a ten was that collecting the Toads was really piontless. 
  
  Overall this game was pretty good. If you are looking for an alright game to keep you mostly entertained 
 for a short amount of time you should rent or buy this game. If you get bored of a game fast if 
 it does not change much, this game is definatly not for you. Like I said before this is a good 
 game that will keep you entertained for only a short amount of time. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: marioman00
Rating: 8.4
Date: Jul 5, 2006 7:40 am PT
Review:  This is a pretty long Platformer and it has good replay value. I spent much time on this game and 
 it is definitely one of my favorite DS games. Although it looks like a girly game, it is enjoyable 
 for girls/boys of all ages. Definitely buy this game if you like platformers. It also differentiates 
 from super mario bros by having vibes, minigames, a sidekick umbrella, longer levels, more unlockables, 
 and way more bosses (not just bowser) . This game will definitely fulfill everyone waiting till 
 new super mario bros comes out!!! Just might not wanna tell your friends you own this game! Although 
 this game is WAY too easy.. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Super-Mario-Fan
Rating: 8.1
Date: Apr 22, 2006 3:46 pm PT
Review:  Super Princess Peach is the first game to star the princess as the hero (as opposed to Mario) . 
 Bowser has gotten his hands on the vibe wand, and has kidnapped the Mario Bros. (Mario kidnapped? 
 That's a first!) As Peach, you'll trek through eight worlds, save many Toads, use four vibe emotions, 
 and fight many enemies. The gameplay for Super Princess Peach can be compared to previous Mario 
 sidescrollers, except it is easier. You have a health meter and can swing your umbrella to defeat 
 your enemies. The graphics are light colored in many areas, which fits this game perfectly. The 
 sounds could have been a bit smoother, but is still bearable. The only thing that really holds 
 this game back is its replay value. I managed to complete the whole game (and extras) within 12 
 hours. If only they made the courses a little longer or harder. At least the boss battles were 
 somewhat challenging.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Yodax007
Rating: 7
Date: Apr 19, 2006 6:23 pm PT
Review:  This was actually a gift for my sister, and I thought it was gonna be some girl power game... well, 
 it sorta is, but who cares! The gameplay is similar to side scrolling mario games, so you can't 
 really go too wrong. However, They need to make it so that you remember to turn off the vibes. 
 Gameplay:6/10
  
  The graphics are great, and there is no slideshow watching. Everything is a little too cute for 
 me though. Graphics: 9/10
  
  The sound effects are great! I really like it how it is easy to tell if you are running out of 
 health, how the vibes effect the noises she makes. However, again the music is too cute. Sound: 
 8/10
  
  If you absolutely hate cutsy-wootsy games, DO NOT BUY THIS. You need to be somewhat tolerant of 
 this stuff to avoid smashing it on the ground. If you don't care about that stuff, go ahead and 
 buy it. It's worth it. Value: 8/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: LasPlagasHope
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 17, 2006 7:24 pm PT
Review:  I love this game it so cool its a mario game with peach in marios place and i think it's really 
 neat. Also the game is full of color and a gr8 sound track. The game is about as hard as well thinking 
 or eating the only thing that gave the game a bit of hardness were the kind of slippery controls 
 at times and the boss battles take a few times to beat. SPP gives up alot of replay value with 
 unlocking all the toads and mini games ect. It is one of the best platformers on the ds and is 
 so much fun to play. The mood swings are really cool and it doesnt seem very fair for peach but 
 w/e they make a cool additition to the game so really pick this one up. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lettyjb
Rating: 8.7
Date: Apr 26, 2006 2:04 pm PT
Review:  I've initially got this game because I like Peach and I thought it would be interesting to play 
 a game where instead of being saved by Mario she's saving him.
  As soon as I started playing it, I thought it would be an easy game and rather silly, but as I 
 advance in the game it started getting more difficult, more interesting.
  You go through several worlds, each one following a particular theme where you are supposed to 
 use one of your characteristics more. With each world you pass you learn more and more, so that 
 you can pass on to the next, more challenging world.
  While going through this worlds, you save toads and collect coins, puzzle pieces, music notes and 
 mini-games. The music notes unlock songs for Peach's band, the puzzle pieces form playable puzzles 
 and the coins ables you to buy things at the store, from more songs ans puzzle pieces, to life 
 and power extensions, new powers and higher levels for your mini-games. With this, the game proved 
 richer than I expected.
  The DS properties such as the touch screen and the mic are well explored, both in the game and 
 the mini-games. It also supports the Nintendo DS Rumble Pack, so if you have it, it's another good 
 point to take into account.
  In addition, the game is highly addictive, once you start it you really need to make an effort 
 to stop playing it.
  To sum up, if you are thinking about getting it, don't give it a second thought! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tsluss
Rating: 7.8
Date: Apr 16, 2006 10:06 am PT
Review:  When many people heard about this game some thought "It's about time..." and some thought "... they're 
 giving her a game?" One thing that has to be kept in mind about this game is Nintendo's mindset 
 when they create a game. This is a game about a princess in a pink dress from the Mario franchise. 
 This means there are two immediate fan bases, young females (not exclusively but one of the primary) 
 and fans of Mario games. If you're not one of these you might want to check out someone elses copy 
 or rent it first.
  
  The game basically is your Mario platformer from the 16-bit era with the DS touch added to it and 
 some mini-games thrown in the mix. The primary alure to this game is for those Mario fans who really 
 enjoy playing Mario games, and it's not a difficult game so young and old alike can enjoy it.
 
  
  Princess Peach is the heroine this time around and finally get's to save Mario, Luigi, and Toad 
 for a change. She does this by using her umbrella as a weapon and utility device, in additon to 
 letting her emotions flare. She can go from her normal state to very happy (allowing her to fly 
 aka Wind Power) , very sad (making her cry rampantly and running about very quickly) , get extremely 
 mad (surround herself with fire and stomping very hard on the ground) , or becoming passive (healing 
 herself with a regen ability) . Some people may see this as an asscociation with the female anatomy 
 and may think it's rather sexist in some ways, but even though that might seem the case it's all 
 just in good fun.
  
  The game is very easy as far as challenge goes and it's going to seem like a real cake walk compared 
 to other Mario games. There are some fun mini game which are also pretty easy that some might enjoy.
 
  
  The touchscreen in Princess Peach is used to change her emotions and used for mini games. The gamplay 
 with the emotion change is best played by just tapping the screen with your thumb since it's really 
 inconvienient to keep your stylus out for it and having to use platformer controls at the same 
 time, biggest downside here is that you may be cleaning yoru DS screen failry often to get rid 
 of the fingerprints. The concept is nice however because it lends to other possbilites for other 
 games using the touchscreen in the same way for other control options.
  
  Since the game is easy, it's also pretty short, but there are some decent replay options after 
 you beat the game that might make you want to come back and play it. With this games game play 
 scheme, it could have been much more difficult if Nintendo wanted it to be and been every bit as 
 challenging is not moreso than some of the previous Mario titles, however Nintendo probably made 
 a good choice for this game because they know their audiance pretty well and a lot of the gamers 
 out there playing Nintendos game don't always want a tough game or something overly complex. While 
 this next statement may sound sexist to some, it's not intended that way and it's true. There aren't 
 nearly as many female gamers (in the US) as there are males, but they are on the rise quickly because 
 there are games out there now that are more alluring to female audiances that aren't just about 
 competition or extreme challenge. Personally I grew up with many female gamers, but they were still 
 far outnumbered by male gamers and Nintendo realizes that there are many females out there who 
 would play games if there were things for them to play and this title (while not specifically aimed 
 at females) is a title that will find it's way in many DS's owned by the female gaming audiance, 
 some of which just want to play a fun game and not something as daunting as Unreal, Devil May Cry, 
 or other similar titles on other platforms. Nintendo is about making games fun for family and a 
 broad audiance, and this is a great step on their part. 
  
  The implementation of the new Rumble Pack is also a nice feature since it can be a very sublt but 
 helpful tool in the game. It will let you know when you're running low on health if you don't catch 
 the low health sound, and is active during her emotional abilitiies and is a great cue when you're 
 out of magic.
  
  The nice thing about this about this game is that it's one of those games that nice to play if 
 you've had a hard day and just want to sit down and play something simple that's not going to challenge 
 you too much, just nice and relaxing, and hey, it's Peaches first solo same! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Writer1983
Rating: 8.4
Date: Apr 4, 2006 12:47 pm PT
Review:  Okay, so I, too, had heard how easy this game was. Yes, it is easy, at least at first.. then it 
 get's more challenging, about mid-game (third world or so) . And yes, they have these wonderfully 
 elaborate bosses that you have to destroy, and the game does give it away (in the form of info 
 boxes like they did in Mario World, hit them and they give you a hint, or tips) but you know, if 
 you want to have a bit more of a challenge, don't hit the info box when you enter the door or tube 
 before a boss!
  
  Peach's umbrella is a lot of fun.. running out to vibes in your vibe meter? Eat about three or four 
 enemies to fill it up! Later, you can go to Toad's Shop and buy special power-ups (A metroid-esque 
 charge up by holding "B" for example) and even a ground, er, umbrella pound. I finally got the 
 Yoshi-like ability to use it to float by pressing and hold "A" after jumping..
  
  Most bosses require you to use your vibes to beat them, and some of them are fairly challenging.
 
  Vibes are as follows:
  *Joy-A cyclone will wrap around Peach. While pressing "A" She will float higher in the air.
  
 *Rage-Flames surround Peach (This one is hilarious to watch! Grrr! She stomps around, buring everything 
 in her path! lol)
  *Gloom-Peach starts bawling, and runs quickly
  *Calm-refills your heart meter but uses up your vibe meter
  
  A lot of people and reviewers 
 thought this game was too easy compared to a standard Mario game, but I'll be honest here: I find 
 most of the Mario games very difficult to beat..
  So, Super Princess peach was just right for me!
  
  Want to make the game even more challenging? 
 Don't buy any extra hearts or vibe meters! Play the game as is! I've died a lot more then I thought 
 I would that way...
  
  At Toad's shop, (accessable between levels) you can get extra heart containers, extra vibes meters, 
 music room sounds and other things. The only thing I have done was buy an extra vibe meter (you'll 
 always be running out!) but not hearts, so the game is (especially in later levels) more on-par 
 with a Mario game in difficulty.
  You don't have to do this, but I choose to, because the game was too easy in the beginning (yes, 
 even for me) .. now, without extra hearts, I'm dying a lot in these later levels and bosses, and 
 have to be extra careful..
  
  Also, there are puzzle pieces to collect in each level, and three toads per level.. sure, you could 
 whiz by and beat it without, but it's a lot more fun to explore everything, use your vibes and 
 find all three toads in each level. Puzzle pieces (12 per puzzle) are hidden one per level (I think) 
 and when all the pieces are found, you can race the clock to put the puzzle together, rotating 
 pieces with your stylus.
  There are other fun mini-games you can unlock in the game, and in Toad's Store, you can buy up 
 to 10 different difficulties of the minigames.. so far, my favorite is a Mario-esque game where 
 you have to blow into the mic to get toad to jump over enemies and holes, as the game scrolls. 
 It's quite challenging.. by blowing harder or softer you control the height of his jump!
  
  There are more mini games to unlock, but I haven't found them all!
  I've gotten to know each 
 level quite well, searching for the toads and puzzle pieces.. perhaps I should write a FAQ on it!
 
  
  I was sure I was going to hate this game (the protagonist uses her Moods to get through the game! 
 Sexist!) , but I've been playing and playing it since I got it! I've heard there's something special 
 when you beat the game the first time. I'll let you all know my final thoughts when I beat it..
 
  
  This is one game I'm keeping. It's fun to stomp goombas, Paratroopers and (finally) take out Piranna 
 Plants, Bullet Bills.. there's even pesty Lakitu! All the old favorites are here!
  But, there's some new enemies.."Angry" enemies chrage at you, "sad" ones rush at you, "happy" ones 
 bounce around, etc.
  All in all, Peach does Mario proud in her new game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: KingKRool01
Rating: 7.5
Date: Apr 1, 2006 5:43 pm PT
Review:  It's been a long while since Nintendo has made a traditional 2-D Mario game, so you could imagine 
 what excitement I had when I found Nintendo would be releasing one. To my surprise, Super Princess 
 Peach was nothing I thought it would be like. Sure it was 2-D, but it was too different from the 
 traditional Super Mario games. Princess Peach controlled too differently and featured many powers 
 that neither Mario nor Luigi carried.
  
  The game starts out with a short 4 minute intro. It turns out that Bowser has found a magical scepter 
 on an island not to far from Mushroom Kingdom called Vibe Island. The Vibe Scepter was used to 
 capture Luigi, Mario, and a very large amount of Toads who were inside of Peach's castle. While 
 Bowser and his minions were raiding the castle and kidnapping everyone inside of it, Princess Peach 
 was out for a little stroll. She returned to the castle to find a note from Bowser saying that 
 he has kidnapped everyone in the castle and that there is no one left to save Mario or Luigi. Reading 
 this, Peach sets off to Vibe Island to save Mario and the gang, and restore power to her kingdom. 
 She receives a magical umbrella named Perry, who helps her throughout the entire game, and serves 
 as her weapon. Together, Perry and Peach must fight through Vibe Island to save Mario and her kingdom 
 from the evil grasps of Bowser.
  
  That's right folks, you play as Princess Peach in this game, and you actually get to save Mario. 
 Peach's powers are nothing of Mario or Luigi's. Princess Peach has 4 emotions that can be triggered 
 by touching the icons on the touch screen. The 4 emotions are Joy, Rage, Gloom, and Calm. When 
 the Joy emotion is triggered, Peach can float in the sky and attack enemies by spinning around 
 in a cyclone. This can also be used in the game to reach normally hard to reach areas. The Rage 
 emotion makes Peach angry and surrounded by flames. She becomes very heavy and torches all enemies 
 that surround her. She can smash heavy objects down and burn bridges down with her Rage emotion. 
 The third emotion that can be triggered is the Gloom emotion. This emotion makes Peach sad. While 
 she is sad, she will cry a heavy amount of tears, and run very fast. Her forth and final emotion 
 is Calm, which can revive one of her heart containers, which serves as your life. The emotions 
 can only be used until the Vibe Gauge runs out of power.
  
  Activating the each emotion using your stylus during gameplay is very straining to the hand. This 
 makes me ponder if this game even needed touch screen emotions in the first place. I was forced 
 to use my fingers to touch the screen instead of my stylus, thanks to the uncomfortable position 
 my hands were in. 
  
  Each emotion can be used to bypass certain obstacles. For example, in some levels, there are some 
 dusty looking clouds blocking a pathway. You can use your Joy emotion and blow that cloud away. 
 A bridge can be burned down by your Rage emotion. You can use your Gloom emotion to cry tears down 
 on a wheel to spin it and unlock a certain area of a level.
  
  There are even some enemies in the game that carry the same emotions as you do. Goombas and Koopas 
 can have Rage just like you can, and when they stomp in a level, they create an earthquake effect 
 that affects everything on screen. Some enemies can have the Joy emotion, which causes them to 
 look very happy, and float around you. The Gloom emotion that your enemies may carry causes them 
 to run extremely fast while crying. Each of these emotions that your enemies may carry can be identified 
 by what color they are. A red colored enemy means it has Rage, while blue represents Gloom and 
 yellow represents Joy.
  
  Just as your emotions, your umbrella Perry can be used as a weapon to harm enemies, as well as 
 destroying objects. By pressing the B button, you can swing your umbrella at enemies to knock them 
 out. Perry can also be used to scoop up enemies and throw them at others. There are a handful of 
 abilities that Perry can use when you unlock them in the shop. For example, unlocking the Floatbrella, 
 ability can be used to float in the air for 1 second using Perry. Once powered up enough, Perry 
 can eat enemies to revive some energy in the Vibe Gauge, destroy enemies to retrieve coins, and 
 do many other tasks.
  
  The shop can be used to purchase new mini games, songs, and abilities. When you collect coins, 
 you can use them as money for the shop to buy items. You can increase your life meter or vibe gauge 
 by coughing some coins up, as well as earning new songs and puzzle pieces to play with. You can 
 access the shop by pressing the R button on the select world screen.
  
  When selecting a world, you can also press the L button to get a menu to pop up that has a handful 
 of things to do. You can play one of the 3 mini games, you can play a puzzle, or you can listen 
 to some music. Music and puzzle pieces can be bought in the shop, or found in levels. The puzzles 
 are fairly easy, just as the game is, and each puzzle can be solved in about 30 seconds. The 3 
 mini games, Toad Jump, Toad Tote, and Toad Shot, are all equally very fun to play, and each feature 
 10 levels. Theyre also a fast way to receive coins while having some fun. Toad Jump involves you 
 blowing into the mic to make the toad jump over obstacles and reach the end of the path. Toad Shot 
 involves you tapping the screen to hit the flying targets and getting the score you need to before 
 time runs out. The final mini game, Toad Tote, involves you having a steady hand. You need to use 
 your stylus and drag the Toad through a narrow pathway while avoiding surrounding fire and obstacles 
 to the end of the stage before the time runs out.
  
  This is a platformer after all, so expect loads of collecting in each level. Each level is packed 
 with coins, music notes, puzzle pieces, mini games, and 3 toads. These 3 toads are in every level 
 besides the boss levels. You will need to collect the toads in order to face Bowser in the final 
 boss level. The puzzle pieces, music scores, and mini games all help in increasing the replay value. 
 
  
  Super Princess Peach is a very simple game. If youre a die hard platformer fan, I suggest you 
 buy this for your children. Chances are, you could beat this game in about 8 hours. This game is 
 no challenge to some gamers out there. It took me 2 days to beat this game. I would suggest that 
 only big fans of Nintendos platformers pick this up to fully enjoy this game, otherwise, this 
 is a kids game.
  
  Boss battles in this game are pretty fun, although they are still simple. Each boss battle involves 
 you using your emotions. After about 40 seconds of playing most of them, you can pretty much figure 
 out what the boss is going to do next. Before each boss, you have a short little mini game you 
 have to complete. Each mini game uses the touch screen to do objectives such as fling Peach to 
 a higher platform or roll a log up a narrow crevice. These pre games are probably the only frustration 
 youll have with a boss. Even Bowser was easily defeated.
  
  After you defeat the game once, you can play all over again to receive more mini game levels and 
 puzzle pieces. You can also defeat the bosses over again to unlock new stages in each world.
  
  If youre looking for a game to get you more hyped up for New Super Mario Bros., I suggest 
 looking further. This game is too different from the style of the old school Mario Bros. games. 
 However, if you are just looking for a solid DS game to play, I would recommend checking this title 
 out. Super Princess Peach is packed with a handful of addictive mini games, fun gameplay, and has 
 a cool new style for you to try out. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: zman101
Rating: 9.4
Date: Mar 29, 2006 2:54 pm PT
Review:  This is a fairly good game this is one of my top favorite games for the nintendo ds. In the story 
 peach goes from level to level using her umbrella pelly the toadster had foung. Pelly is a magical 
 umbrella that can do many great things to help Peach along the way. Peacs job in the story is to 
 cry to make plants grow, get mad to burn down bridges, Joy to regain life, and happiness to float 
 and fly in the air. I would reccomend this game to all adventure game lovers and of course any 
 one who likes Peach. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Robbie_IV
Rating: 7.8
Date: Mar 26, 2006 1:35 pm PT
Review:  Super Princess Peach is a first as far as the Mario series goes. It's the first game in the franchise 
 to star Peach alone in her own platforming adventure, on a quest to save Mario and Luigi no less. 
 It appears that the evil Bowser is once more up to no good, stealing a mysterious scepter known 
 as the Vibe Wand from it's home on Vibe Island and using it to wreak havoc on the Mushroom Kingdom 
 and imprison the two while Peach is out for a stroll. Being given use of a talking parasol named 
 Parry, she sets out to save them by trekking across Vibe Island.
  
  The game is designed as a platformer with some puzzle elements thrown in. Peach's main weapon is 
 Parry, whom she can use as a club or as lift to carry enemies over her head and throw them. Parry 
 also has the ability to swallow enemies, restoring some of Peach's ability to change moods. Peach 
 has four different abilities that she can activate by taking on different moods. When she's sad, 
 Peach cries a river of tears and can run more quickly. When she's angry, she is surrounded by a 
 fireball and can shake the ground when she jumps. When she's happy, she can float or spin around 
 to create a tiny tornado. And when she's calm, she can restore her own health. Every one of these 
 abilities is powered by Peach's "Vibe Meter," which she refills by either consuming enemies with 
 Parry or finding a certain power up. Using these abilities properly is important to solving the 
 game's different puzzles, as most of those require a certain ability to be used at a certain time.
 
  
  The game is initially divided into eight stages with five levels in each and a boss fight preceded 
 by a mini-game at the end. The mini-games are all minor challenges that require you to use the 
 stylus and touch screen in different ways, like destroying objects by poking them or rolling a 
 boulder. The boss fights themselves aren't usually very difficult, as the game often gives a rather 
 strong hint at how to win them before you take them on. The ease of playing this game is what becomes 
 its biggest problem as a matter of fact. Usually you're told exactly how to solve every single 
 puzzle the moment you come upon it, which defeats much of the purpose of trying to figure them 
 out. This, combined with Peach's rather generous life meter, makes it possible to beat much of 
 the game in just one try. That's a disappointment, because it makes a lot of the game seem to drag 
 on when there's no real challenge to it.
  
  The game has a very colorful look to it, akin to the crayon-colored look of Yoshi's Island for 
 the Super NES. Many of the enemies in this game actually appear quite similar in this game to the 
 way that they did in that game, which may please older fans of the series. Everything has a very 
 bright, happy look to it. Only the top screen is used for actual gameplay through, the bottom screen 
 merely contains a moving close-up of Peach and a touchable menu from which you can change her moods 
 on the fly. The whole game looks quite gorgeous overall, as it suits the lighthearted platforming 
 mood quite well.
  
  The game's sound is alright. Most of the songs are fairly catchy tunes, but they aren't likely 
 to become classic songs any time soon. Every stage sticks to it's own theme, so you'll hear similar 
 songs on every level of each stage. The game also includes a number of voice samples from Peach 
 and other Nintendo characters. Sound isn't really the high point of the presentation, but it does 
 the job nicely.
  
  Super Princess Peach does it's best to last as long as possible. To truly beat the game, Peach 
 has to find three captured Toads on every stage so that she can access the final boss. Furthermore, 
 after you finish the game once, three more levels open up in every level. There are three different 
 unlockables mini-games that require use of the stylus and the DS microphone for you to play with, 
 as well as a sound test room. There's also a set of jigsaw puzzles for you to solve, one for each 
 stage. Aside from the new levels, most of these are minor diversions that are easy to blow through 
 and get old rather quickly. It's nice that they're there, but they don't really add that much to 
 the game.
  
  Super Princess Peach is an honorable attempt at making Peach a platform star on her own. It's enough 
 fun to make it worth a look, but it's really too easy to make it recommendable to anyone. The people 
 who will get the most out of this game are probably people who are already fans of the Mario series, 
 so that limits it's audience somewhat. Anyone who is a fan will probably enjoy this, but aside 
 from it's star it isn't really a standout game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sonic2DAmax
Rating: 7.1
Date: Jun 6, 2006 9:35 am PT
Review:  You know how Peach is always getting captured by Bowser this time Mario and Luigi are captured 
 and Peach has to save them. Peaches emotions have different effects on the game.... for instence 
 crying speeds you up and also fuels flowers. Getting mad sets you a blaze and you can burn things 
 and stomp harder. Being happy alows you to twirl and fly. And being careless refuels your health. 
 The levels could have bin a whole lot harder and it was just frusterating collecting all the Toads. 
 Its good for the first time around but you probaly wouldnt want to play it again. I really wish 
 the princess would go faster. And why do you need a bar to tell you how much emotion you can use 
 and what no mushrooms? This is sorta lacking mario quality i could see this if it was in its own 
 series. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GaMa729
Rating: 9.6
Date: Mar 25, 2006 6:01 pm PT
Review:  This is a great game and all but i still think it makes Mario looks bad cause Peach has to save 
 him. Well this game could have been a perfect 10 if it wasn't too short. The gameplay is very good 
 and fun. She uses her emotions as her power like if she is angry she can break bridges and attack 
 enemies. So the gameplay is great. the graphics of this game is really good. the graphics remind 
 me of the graphics they used in Mario and Luigi: SSS and Partners in Time. the sound is good, ok. 
 if they changed the beat to the music it would be better and earned a perfect 10. so overall the 
 game is pretty good 2 problems though. 1 it was way to short, and 2 they could have improve on 
 the music but other than that the game is very good. Dont be shy to ask for this game if your a 
 guy like they say takes a man to wear pink. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: NDS419
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 25, 2006 5:46 pm PT
Review:  this is an awesome game. it owns.... IT OOOOOOWWWWNZ. it's awesome, u r peach and save mario.... you 
 also save toads in levels. and u have a sweet umbrella. i love this game. when you hold down u 
 hide in your umbrella. its like super mario world for snes but u play as peach, it's portable, 
 has better graphics, but no yoshi (i think) . this game is total noob-proof and if u dont get this 
 game then you may as well consider yourself the biggest noob because then you are total un "peachy" 
 and total noob. althogh you can't get headshots this game is still worth saying BOOM HEADSHOT! 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MarioDS01
Rating: 7.9
Date: Mar 21, 2006 7:54 am PT
Review:  The game is not too bad at all. I was a little spectic of other reviews, but that went away a little. 
 I love the opening scene of Bower's castle, it was pretty fun, reminds me of the Mario RPG games. 
 The parasol dreams are pretty interesting to look at.
  
  The gameplay is interesting. not really too easy to play as some people say. A little bit of a 
 hassle using the touch screen to use vibe powers and moving Peach out of harm's way. Only real 
 negative is the limited use of vibe powers until near the end. 
  
  The graphics are good in the game. A little small to look at, but not too bad. Wish that more of 
 cut scenes would instead of being still pictures
  
  Sound is OK I guess. Don't really care for the Happy Joy Joy kind of music in the game. The music 
 could have been better. The other sounds are decent enough.
  
  The value... a good rental from Gamefly, you may be able to finish the game in a few days. I would 
 not recommend buying it until it's price is much lower.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: argianas
Rating: 7.9
Date: Mar 20, 2006 2:43 pm PT
Review:  For the past 20 years, every Mario game has essentially been the same - Bowser captures Peach, 
 and Mario stomps on deformed mushrooms to save the Princess. Nintendo decided to make a little 
 change with their newest 2D platformer for the DS - have Bowser capture Mario (and his third-wheel 
 brother) while Peach is taking a walk out of the castle. With the help of a magical talking umbrella 
 which possibly challenges the plastic Burger King guy as the creepiest thing I've seen in the past 
 year, she sets off to save Mario... well, after she rescues every single last Toad that has also 
 been captured for whatever reason.
  
  While Mario relied on a number of special powerup moves to stomp his way through the Koopa army, 
 I guess the designers figured that since Peach is a girl, she should rely on her violent mood swings. 
 When she gets angry she bursts info flames, which can melt ice, burn bridges, and fuel hot air 
 balloons. When she's sad, she runs extra fast, and her tears can put out flames, cause sprouts 
 to grow, and power water wheels. When she's joyful, a cyclone forms around her which can power 
 windmills, clear out smoke, and let her float into the air (which is a very effective safety net 
 when you miss a platform on one of your jumps) . When she's calm, her life meter refills. The first 
 three of these powers are the keys to opening locked paths and toppling certain enemies, plus accessing 
 other hidden areas with various coins and items. It's a nice concept to identify which of your 
 powers you need to use to move on, even if what you need to do is often quite obvious. In addition 
 to that, she has a few abilities that she can purchase or earn, like a ground stomp that breaks 
 blocks and shakes the ground, or using the umbrella to float for a short distance.
  
  Other than that, it's your standard 2D sidescrolling platformer. Peach runs through 8 themed worlds, 
 ranging from your standard plains, forests, haunted houses, glaciers, and naturally Bowser's villa. 
 Each of the areas in the worlds doesn't feel too repetitive overall thanks to its good level design. 
 One may have a maze of doors that you need to navigate, the next has you run ahead of a swarm of 
 ghosts, the next has you rotate the room with switches to get to the exit, and so forth. Each of 
 the normal levels has three Toads locked in boxes that you need to rescue to unlock each world's 
 boss, so you need to keep an eye out for them, or even make a second run through the level if you 
 missed them. Before long you'll know what to look for, however, as you usually have to use one 
 of your abilities on something in the environment to be able to reach them. You can collect coin 
 in the courses, which you can redeem at a store for a limited selection of abilities, increase 
 your health/vibe meters, buy minigame pieces, or unlock musical selections... but coins aren't 
 hard to come by when you figure you can redo some of the simpler courses as much as you want. If 
 there's just one drawback, as I'm sure you heard elsewhere, it's that it's ultimately rather easy.
 
  
  In previous 2D platformers, if Mario got touched by the enemy he either died or lost his powerup. 
 If he fell down a pit, he died. Here, the game is far more lenient. Peach starts off with 3 hearts 
 in her life guage, with each time she takes damage she loses half a heart. Also if she falls, she 
 gets placed a little bit further back and loses half a heart. If she eventually dies, she simply 
 must start the level over again. There are a few hearts scattered throughout the course that refills 
 your life, which is usually enough. Even if it wasn't, as mentioned one of her powers uses her 
 vibe meter (which drains as each of the four abilities is active) to refill her life meter. Peach 
 can use her umbrella to pick up an enemy, and that creepy little freak can then absorb the enemy 
 to replenish your vibe. If you move over a screen then move back, all enemies you've defeated will 
 magically appear, making refilling your meter a very trivial matter (and a later ability will cause 
 that freaky umbrella to envelop the upper half of Peach while she tries to squirm away for air 
 to refill the vibe meter - now you see why I have nightmares about that unholy umbrella) . There 
 are a few jumps and sections that prove to be just as tricky as some of the classic Mario games, 
 but the fact that you have so many chances to get by, and it taking seconds for each attempt, you 
 eventually will. A few of the bosses can be a bit annoying (I found the first world's boss to be 
 one of the more difficult) , but ultimately only Bowser himself will likely give you any trouble 
 at all.
  
  Each of the worlds have a nice, colorful, vibrant feel to them, and are rather well done, as are 
 the enemies themselves. The characters seem a little bit above average, they just don't seem as 
 good as other DS titles like Partners in Time in terms of crispness, but they're still rather decent. 
 The music is also vibrant and upbeat, though nothing outside of the volcano level was above the 
 average game music. There were very few voiced lines, the most frequent being Peach's "That was 
 easy!" when she finishes each course (so true, Peach, so true...) .
  
  There's more than just platforming here. You can unlock three minigames that make use of the stylus 
 or blowing into the microphone. You can also collect puzzle pieces across the courses (and in the 
 shop) to make a minigame where you rotate and place the puzzle pieces to make a picture of Peach 
 in each of the eight theme worlds. Musical selections can also be unlocked so you can listen to 
 the entire soundtrack as you please, and each time you defeat an enemy it's added to the bestiary.
 
  
  You're not done when you beat the game, either. Each of the three locations you found a Toad in 
 every level now contains puzzle pieces or musical selections. It's questionable if you'll want 
 to go through each level again for this, though, as they're literally in the same exact spots as 
 the Toads. However, redefeating each level's boss will open up three new levels in each of the 
 eight areas, all of them being a higher difficulty level than the original levels. Difficult, though, 
 is a matter of perspective, as at this point they shouldn't prove too difficult when you factor 
 in all the abilities you have gained throughout the game.
  
  In the end, Super Princess Peach introduces some neat new ideas and has well-designed worlds, but 
 it doesn't leave much of an impression since there's little sense of accomplishment due to the 
 lack of difficulty. However, I still found it rather enjoyable to play in spurts. While I'd probably 
 be upset at the lack of difficulty if it was a console game, the fact that I play handhelds on 
 either a bumpy ride or right before bed made this game somewhat relaxing and an enjoyable way to 
 pass a little bit of time. There's enough extras to collect which, though repetitive if you play 
 the game often, can be a worthwhile diversion if you do a little here and a little there. Fans 
 of the old Mario 2D platformers will like some of the nostalgia this game provides, but will ultimately 
 rank it below most of Mario's adventures. That doesn't necessarily doom the game though, as the 
 Mario titles hold a very high standard. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: EviliPodMan99
Rating: 9.3
Date: Mar 17, 2006 2:11 pm PT
Review:  It's a very good game but it's too easy. There's Peach who tries to save toads, collect puzzle 
 pieces, music notes, minigames and coins. There are 5 levels plus 1 boss in each area. You use 
 the money to buy things in the shop. Then listen to themes in the game, play levels, build puzzles, 
 watch your umbrella's dreams and FIGHT!!! You attack with your umbrella and emotions. Your emotions 
 are sadness, madness, happiness and joyous. When you pick "sad" you cry make plants grow, putting 
 out fires and run fast. When you pick "mad" you have fire which hurts enemies, stop on buttons, 
 cause earthquakes and melt ice. When you are happy, you can fly, hurt enemies, cause cyclones to 
 make clouds and dust disappear. Then when you feeling joyful over time, your health we regain. 
 You have to watch your gauge bar although............ 
  :XgAbEX: 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rond5566
Rating: 7.9
Date: May 23, 2006 1:11 am PT
Review:  Was anyone expecting anything else? Really, this was exactly what I was looking for. Something 
 to remind me of why I loved Mario games and a warm up for the New Super Mario Bros. game on of 
 the way which will be SURE to blow our socks off. While Super Princess Peach certainly doesn't 
 measure up to the classics before it, it still rocks in terms of nostalgia right down to the recurring 
 Mario enemies we grew up with and reminds us of the games we used to love. 
  
  I actually had a hard time putting it down. It took me two days to plow through on the fact that 
 it was both easy and downright FUN. Kasa (or Perry) is a great addition that gives a much needed 
 melee attack to the 2D series ever since first introduced in Mario 64. The story is a laughable 
 joke, and I found myself skipping the cutscenes with the ever useful B-Button so I could get back 
 to the gameplay.
  
  A few new elements kinda detract from the original game. Peach simply has TOO MANY hearts, but 
 I'm kinda glad she had them while I played through a few of the boss fights which could be surprisingly 
 tough at times. And I also heard a few complaints about the level designs and how they are so "not 
 Mario-ish." This is VERY true. I don't think that the Mario level designers worked on this, but 
 rather the Kirby level designers. I felt immersed in the world of Kirby's Adventure rather than 
 the Mushroom Kingdom wannabe island. While definitely falling short of the masterful levels of 
 SMB3, they work for this game.
  
  Also the game is pretty sexist how Peach's ultimate power is to lose control of her emotions... but 
 I think it's pretty damn funny
  
  The new elements thrown into the mix add a new sense of fun, and I am looking forward to the next 
 Peach game if they make one. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sjesseph
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 14, 2006 10:24 pm PT
Review:  Ok if you like the game play of the first few mario games you will love this game as well. For 
 once mario is missing and peach gets a chance to save him. It has good graphics and sound. Because 
 it is new it is around $35.00 and I will have to say well worth it! Most of the time I wait for 
 price to go down and little but as long as people are buying it at that price it won't go down 
 anytime soon. Well worth the money and the game takes a while to beat which is nice because a lot 
 of the games you pay 20 or over and finish them on a day or two. This game will give you hours 
 of game play. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Hollaback_Girl
Rating: 8.3
Date: Mar 14, 2006 9:02 pm PT
Review:  The perfect Spin-off, girl gamer's will love this game.
  Even guy's would like this, so no matter who you are give it a try. Pretty easy, but more enjoyable 
 then the like's as such of Nintendogs or Super Mario 64 DS.
  Princess Peach's new game is based for the young one's but teenagers and adult's who fell in love 
 with the original brutnette can't help themselves against Peach's cute, quirky charm.
  Her voice is annoying at first, but you'll get use to it after you get to satge 3!
  
  Wrap 
 it Up: Great Game for all ages. Mario fan's will like this game. Best Spin-off from the best series 
 ever made! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 10outof10
Rating: 7.9
Date: Apr 30, 2006 7:54 am PT
Review:  I've always thought that Peach was cooler than Zelda. It is just awesome that Peach actually has 
 her own game. Everything is so pink and Toads to save galore! Peachs's powers are pretty weird 
 yet also interesting. One con about Super Princess Peach is that using the buttons and then having 
 to pull out the stylus gets kind of annoying. With an umbrella, Weird emotional powers, and hotness 
 Peach is an unstoppable machine and she makes a really cool video game too. If you buy this game 
 your emotion will be only happy. Not sad and not so angry that you will be covered in fire. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Danger2bme
Rating: 6.8
Date: Mar 14, 2006 6:20 pm PT
Review:  Super Princess Peach is an enigma that looks like a Mario-esque game but plays like something else. 
 For years, die-hard mario fans like myself have been waiting endlessly for a classic 2D Mario platformer. 
 Super Princess Peach looked to end the drought. I mean on one hand it had what one would think 
 would be the classic 'mario magic' that makes those games timeless. Needless to say I was excited 
 to crack it open and play a simple platformer with amazingly deep gameplay. However after playing 
 Princess Peach, you will realize that despite the games appearance, it is a half-hearted attempt 
 at a solid 'Nintendo' platformer that is worth a rent but nothing more. Here's the breakdown:
 
  
  Graphics -- Graphics are probably the best selling point of the game. It's very colorful and definately 
 captures the signature look Mario games traditionally have. 
  
  Gameplay-This is the most critical ingredient that makes a solid platformer and in my opinion Princess 
 Peach falls drastically short. To its credit, the controls are solid and there are some unique 
 elements that try to keep the gameplay fresh. I was definately intrigued by the 'vibe' system and 
 think that there was amazing potential in this gameplay element, however I feel that Nintendo squandered 
 it. You start off with all of your vibes in the beginning of the game and can pretty much cruise 
 through every level without too much skill. I think it would have been much more effective to start 
 off with 1-2 vibes and learn more as the game goes on rather than give you everything you need 
 all at once. As a result, the only sense of advancement you feel is getting more hearts/vibe energy.
 
  
  Mario/platformer enthusiasts would argue with me that Mario could have all the abilities he needed 
 in the game at the beginning and they would be right. The difference with other platformers and 
 this game is that as you advance in a solid platformer, you usually need to develop a stronger 
 skill set so that you feel a sense of accomplishment when you beat a level. Not so with Princess 
 Peach. I cruised through the first 4 worlds in about 3 hours first time through and I was bored 
 in doing it. There is very little sense of challenge or wonder in playing this game. A good platformer, 
 especially a Mario game, has a sense of exploring and discovery within each world. Mario games 
 call you to explore the world and even spark your imagination. Not so with Princess Peach. Though 
 there is some exploration, the levels are pretty simple and the few 'secrets' can be easily found 
 because the game practically points you to their location. I never was compelled to search a level 
 and explore. As I continued to play the game, I found myself getting annoyed and trying to get 
 through the level as quickly as possible to get to my next destination rather than enjoy the level 
 I was playing. The last activity that I partook in that had me focused more on finishing than enjoying 
 the moment was my job which is exactly what this game feels like.
  
  Lastly and I will move on is the fact that the pacing in this game is bad. I stated earlier that 
 it took me 3 hours to beat 4 worlds. I would have been done with the worlds sooner if the pacing 
 was faster. Instead they drag everything out and make playing the game an exercise rather than 
 entertainment.
  
  Sound -- The best way to sum up the music is that the soundtrack sounds like b-sides of mario tunes. 
 Each song is decent, but forgettable and sounds like they used to be songs that hit the cutting 
 room floor from previous Mario games.
  
  Value -- There is very little value in owning this game and I think the developers knew that. The 
 game is littered with pointless mini-games that do not compel you to play them. Who cares how long 
 it takes me to put a puzzle together? It almost feels like that the developers could tell how shallow 
 the game was and threw in mini-games to try to add a sense of replay value. IT didn't work... at 
 least not for me.
  
  Overall: All in all, Super Princess Peach is a fair game that is best suited for beginners or children 
 who are learning how to play videogames. Mario lovers beware; the game may look like its in the 
 vein of Mario... but it doesn't even come close. The game does sport occasional moments of brilliance, 
 however these moments are merely flashes in a pan and only come around every so often. If you're 
 looking for a timeless and enjoyable platformer, this game is not for you. The poor pacing, extremely 
 low difficulty, and lack of charm will keep many gamers from being satisfied. If you are a person 
 who gets easily frustrated at harder games... it may be a nice introduction to the mario universe. 
 Rent it before you buy... if you can.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: REVOLUTIONfreak
Rating: 8.2
Date: Mar 8, 2006 12:58 pm PT
Review:  Im fairly surprised at most peoples reaction to the game. Many feel its just a warm up to what 
 is to come (SMB on the DS) . However, this game is much more than just a warm up, its easily one 
 of the best sidescrollers ive seen in years.
  Ever since the release of SMB on the NES, people have gone crazy for the red hat plumber and his 
 brave but clumsy brother Luigi. But this time around, Mario and Luigi have been kidnapped by Bowser 
 and his minions. Its up to Peach to save the day (along with the help of an enchanted umbrella 
 of course) . Now, this game is by no means story in depth, but there are at least short cutscenes 
 at the end of each world to keep your interest.
  As far as the graphics go, i would expect nothing better than SMB2 on the GBA, just a little more 
 clean and colorful. The worlds are creatively designed (although they do bare some resemblance 
 to other worlds in previous Mario games) and each one seems to stick right out at you. The character 
 designs are almost remind me of Mario and Luigi Partners in time, for the look of each character 
 seems to look exactly the same. Overall, graphics, not the greatest, but not the worst either.
 
  The music in this game is a minor mixture of older SMB music, and a big compilation of some new 
 ones. The tunes are catchy at times, but nothing that is spectacular and sticks in your head for 
 the day. Again, not the greatest, but not the worst by any means.
  Now lets get to what really makes this a great game, the gameplay. Anyone familiar with classic 
 SMB gameplay, is already an expert at this game. The levels are uniquely designed to work with 
 Peaches four "Emotions". Princess Peach's magical parasol/umbrella gives her the ability to turn 
 her emotions into magical powers and abilities. She can heal herself, turn into a blazing inferno, 
 create a whirlwind, or act like a wimp and cry her eyes out. Now even though these abilities are 
 not used constantly in this game, they are used effectively and are needed to beat the game. As 
 many may be curious about the rumble pack feature, it is a nice touch to the game, but isnt anything 
 to boost the games quality either. The pak only comes into effect when being hit or using an ability 
 like the whirlwind. As for the mini games, they do add quite a bit of replay value to the game, 
 although i must say there was only one of the minigames that truly caught my interest. (Blowing 
 into the mic to make toad jump over obstacles? YES!!!)
  In conclusion, this is a fantastically designed game which i would consider just as good as any 
 other game from the Mario series. Super Princess Peach uses a creative list of abilites, and fantastic 
 level design. If your a huge fan of the Mario series, or are even a casual gamer, this is a great 
 game to pick up next time your at the mall. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mango-Out
Rating: 8.2
Date: Mar 7, 2006 10:59 pm PT
Review:  So okay, I'm a twenty-three year old male and... I'm playing this game... But you know what, I 
 DON'T CARE! Super Princess Peach is a diamond among the gems and I can't stop playing it.
  
  For once, the princess is getting down and dirty and she's going to give Bowser something new 
 to be afraid of. And this is nice to see. It's like the great equalizer for the female role in 
 games.
  
  I think it's really funny about how the developers came up with Peach's powers. Mood swings. It's 
 ALMOST offensive. But it works well and the clever use of her moods (or vibes as they are called) 
 with the level design and inquisitive puzzles really puts it all together well.
  
  The graphics in the game are on the level of Yoshi's Island from the SNES, a personal favorite 
 of mine. Highly detailed worlds full of life and color, and I especially love the moving clouds. 
 The animations of Peach are a nice touch too.
  
  My only huge gripe with this game is that it appears too easy at times, and the game itself practically 
 gives you all the answers needed to beat it. Don't get me wrong, a little help is nice, but I'm 
 a big boy and can venture off on my own without the help.
  
  Still Super Princess Peach is a solid plat-former with all the right moves. It's a nice change 
 of pace from all of the other DS titles and definitely worth the time. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jbroady
Rating: 9.4
Date: Mar 7, 2006 9:13 pm PT
Review:  I started playing Super Princess Peach with a bit of trepidation. Although I do like side scrolling 
 games, the last few Mario side scrollers have been way to complicated for me with all the warps, 
 power ups, huge worlds, and complicated decisions to make. Would SPP fall into the same category?
 
  
  At first it appeared so. There were a lot of quick tutorials to read through, and it soon became 
 apparent that I would have to switch between Peach's four different moods to get through the game. 
 It all started feeling very complicated.
  
  But then something amazing happened. The game just unfolded in the most natural & logically progressive 
 way. Puzzles and challenges got just a bit harder every level, but never overwhelming. After a 
 couple of levels, using Peach's moods became second nature. And although there are plenty of adventures 
 available on each level, it's always clear which way to go.
  
  I love this game! It is just the perfect difficulty for me and probably my favorite DS game so 
 far.
  
  Who needs Mario? I've got Peach. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: fft_ramza
Rating: 8.6
Date: Mar 7, 2006 11:50 am PT
Review:  Finally the Princess of videogames gets her own game.
  
  Princess Peach Toadstool of the mushroom kingdom is usually stereotyped as the classic ''Lady in 
 Distress'' whom has to be saved by Mario.
  
  The tables turn as it is Peach's turn to save Mario and Luigi from Bowser's evil claws. The game 
 is a very fair platform game and it will not be considered as a Super Mario Bros. game, because 
 the Spin-off is just too diferent from the others (Although Yoshi's Island is considered a Super 
 Mario Bros. game even if it was totally different from the other Mario games) .
  
  The game has a very sunny fresh style, it takes place in an Island that's close to the Mushroom 
 Kingdom, the island is called Vibe Island.
  
  The bad thing about the game is the lack of challenge, it is way too easy for any average platform 
 gamer, Your final encounter with Bowser may be the only hard part and that is much to say because 
 if you die you can just try again untill you get it.
  
  Overall: Super Princess Peach is a great spin-off for the Mario series and it is so worth checking 
 out. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: xX_Meteor_Xx
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 6, 2006 4:22 pm PT
Review:  Now, before I get some rude comments about me being bad at video games, screw you! I played WELL 
 over 50 games, INCLUDING IKARUGA, and beat them ALL!!!
  
  Now, this game if played straight through, as in, don't save toads, don't unlock anything, yes, 
 this game's easy. But if you actually TRY to collect everything, it takes a LOT of thinking for 
 some. You also unlock extra levels at the end if you save all the Toads, and they are MUCH harder. 
 Now, people claim this game super easy because you have a health bar that takes two hits per heart 
 and it can be restored. Okay, people never seem to have complained this about Kirby, health bar, 
 can increase health bar, recovering's easy, and a LOT less enemies. I mean, if you're going to 
 call this game superbly easy, try playing the first Mario game again! Or even Kirby Canvas Curse 
 for that matter.
  
  Gameplay:
  In terms of actual gameplay as far as it goes it's great! Really innovative, lots to unlock, and 
 much backtracking. You can upgrade you, your umbrella, etc. at the shop, and buy all the music 
 and mini-games. (Before the extra levels are unlocked) 4 Emotions, 4 powers, excellent way to solve 
 puzzles. And will take a ot of thinking at times. Why couldn't they make puzzles like this in Mario 
 and Luigi: Partners in Time? In fact, why wasn't this game voted an 8.9 and Partners in time a 
 7.2? I think they both deserve opposite scores. And bosses, although easy, there are a couple that 
 will have you trying to figure out what to do, even when that little box tells you exactly what 
 to do and with what power.
  
  Graphics:
  Old School Mario style with rounded edges greater than most you've ever seen, with a LOT more color. 
 However, some parts just look like GBA graphics, and I think could have been spruced up a bit. 
 However, being as New Super Mario Bros. is coming soon, I think they made the graphics like this 
 for a reason, especially since it's Peach, they have to make it colorful and cutesy. But Colorful 
 and cutesy is most DEFINITELY not a bad thing!
  
  Sound:
  Very Catchy music, and sounds that remind you of the old school Mario. Some of the music will be 
 stuck in you head for ages! That's really about it for sound.
  
  Replay Value:
  As mentioned earlier, if you collect all the Toads you will unlock some new levels added to each 
 world. You can also try to find all the music tracks, puzzles, enemy glossary, and did I mention 
 music tracks? With music as catchy as this, you WANT to collect every one!
  
  In conclusion, Super Princess Peach is NOT a kid's game, it's NOT super easy, and anyone that thinks 
 so is either:
  1. Someone who never collected all the Toads and thinks the game ends if you kill Bowser
  2. 
 Someone who's afraid to admit they have some trouble just because others say it's "Super Easy"
 
  3. You're a know it all critic and try to say a game is easy just to impress someone/look professional.
 
  
  That is all! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Abzebel
Rating: 7.3
Date: Mar 5, 2006 1:37 am PT
Review:  Well, I have gone old and am no longer an 8 year old child, but I just don't seem to grow out of 
 Mario and Luigi. But I did get sick and tired of Peach Toadstoll getting captured by Bowser. Sure, 
 it's a similer story, but this time, the situation has been reversed. 
  
  Now comes Super Princess Peach! It is about time that Nintendo gives peach a break... or better 
 yet, her chance to prove her powers. Actually, it's not the first time where peach was given a 
 break... Back in Super Mario Bros. 2, it was the ENTIRE Mario gang ganging up on a different character: 
 Wart, which is another forgotten character (I hope that the frog is back in a future Mario game) . 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sasami-chan
Rating: 9.2
Date: Mar 4, 2006 12:57 am PT
Review:  Save for work and the daily obligatory 15 minute Animal Crossing break, my eyes have been glued 
 to my DS in the last four days. The reason?
  
  Princess Peach.
  
  She is cute. She is pink. She is the princess of a kingdom full of toads and toadettes. Best of 
 all, she is the star of Nintendo's latest 2D sidescrolling platformer: Super Princess Peach! ^_-
 
  
  The gameplay and the graphics in Peach are strictly old-school - very simple, very anime, very 
 smooth, very responsive - which is probably the biggest charm of the game. You won't find in Super 
 Princess Peach Partner in Time style graphics, which seemed overly lavish at times. The 16-color 
 style palette in Peach is reminiscent of Mario titles on the SNES and is very easy on the eyes. 
 The music is upbeat in a lighthearted sort of way and is very easy on the ears. Although the soundtracks 
 are brand new, fans of old Mario titles will undoubtedly notice classic passages embedded inside 
 some of the tunes.
  
  To make the game more challenging, I elected not to read the signs, use the calm Vibe to heal Peach 
 when she gets hurt, or visit the store to buy additional hearts. This game is a lot more fun when 
 you have to experiment with Peach's powers to figure things out and a lot more challenging when 
 you don't have the benefit of near unlimited healing. However you play the game though, you will 
 certainly have fun going through the vibrant, colourful worlds.
  
  Peach makes a great portable game. Unlike some games which require you to dedicated yourself to 
 a sequence that lasts tens of minutes (this value on the portable is roughly equivalent to hours 
 on the consoles) , Peach is something you can play, take a break, and come back to it later. It 
 is also a game that doesn't relieve real-life stress by giving you virtual ones, but by putting 
 a smile on your face as you help Peach save her favourite man.
  
  The bottom line? Get this game. Oh and boys, if Peach turns out she doesn't suit your taste, you 
 can always pass it on to that female friend of yours. 
  
  P. S. I wish GameSpot had gotten a female reviewer to do the review Super Princess Peach. It feels 
 a little awkward hearing Ryan Davis (even though he is a good guy) hinting at the "sexist" aspect 
 of the game's design. The Vibe is a very creative power. If this power is exclusively available 
 to the ladies, so be it. As if Peach herself isn't the epitome of stereotyping if you really want 
 to get down to it. However, the truth in this case is that Peach was not the only one affected 
 by the Vibe wand in the game. The protagonist could have well been Mario or Luigi and they would 
 still have cried their eyes out. No, this is simply another case of how some individuals would 
 jump the guns at anything that seems politically incorrect. 
  
  Okay, I have wasted enough time writing this review. Getting back to the game... ^_-
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: LooneyLupeGirL
Rating: 9.8
Date: Mar 3, 2006 3:48 am PT
Review:  Finally the beloved Mario game with a twist... For years and years I was wondering why they always 
 have to save Princess Peach, why couldn't it be comical and be her saving them for once... and yes 
 I finally got my wish.
  
  In this game you are Princess Peach and it's your job to save those wacky plumbers who having been 
 saving you through out the years...
  
  Princess peach has different emotions which all have different effects..
  
  One thing I really 
 like about this game is it plays like the old school Mario games...
  
  The graphics are good, the gameplay is good... yep overall it's a must have game.. So if you love 
 the old school type Mario games then you need to go buy this game asap.
  
  i would have wrote more but others seemed to cover just about everything I wanted to say in the 
 reviews that they wrote. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: maxerAA
Rating: 9.7
Date: Mar 1, 2006 3:05 pm PT
Review:  For countless amount of times, Peach has been kidnapped. Usually Bowser, sometimes someone else 
 takes a shot, but it's always the same person who rescues him: Mario. It hasn't gotten old yet, 
 and fans aren't complaining, but that didn't stop Nintendo from making this gem of a game, Super 
 Princess Peach.
  
  In Super Princess Peach, the storyline is the exact opposite. Bowser and his minions are on Vibe 
 Island, and they find the Vibe Scepter, a powerful... scepter. They use it to capture Mario, the 
 one who always saves the day. Now it's Princess Peach's turn to save the day!
  
  Super Princess Peach is a 2D platformer, (the first original one since Yoshi's Island for the SNES 
 in 1995) and it plays like any other Mario platformer. However, you now have hearts as life, not 
 mushrooms and fire flowers and other stuff like that. While that may bother some hardcore Nintenod 
 fans, it didn't really bother me. You also have a vibe bar, which is needed for Peach's vibe powers, 
 which are activated by touching them on the bottom screen. Calm allows her to fly, rage makes a 
 fire that you can use to burn things down, sad maks her cry, which makes plants grows and puts 
 out fire, and joy, which restores health. She also has an umbrella, which gives her a few new moves. 
 She can bash enemies with it, scoop up enemies and other objects and throw them, hide under it, 
 and buy power ups for it at the shop. While there are a lot of new stuff, Nintendo didn't mess 
 with the normal formula, which is good. The only thing that may bother some people is the lack 
 of difficulty. At the beginning of the game, you have to take 6 hits to die, and when you up your 
 hearts to 5, you have to take 10 hits (each heart takes two hits to empty) .
  
  The sound is great. Pure great. The music for the levels makes you feel right at home in a Nintendo 
 game, and miscellaneous sounds (jumping, for example) sounds smooth and flawless. Each level's 
 sound makes you feel right at home. For example, the first world has flowers and grass with a blue 
 sky and has a happy tune. The toads also sound like toads.
  
  The graphics are smooth and beautiful for the DS. The 2D cutscenes look extremely illustrated and 
 colorful. Everything is full of detail, from the color differences on Peach's dress to the swaying 
 of the grass to the wings and shell of the koopas.
  
  Replayability is very high. There are over 72 levels in this game, and all normal stages have 3 
 toads you need to rescue. Itll take a long time to beat the main game with all those levels, but 
 each level is also full of hidden treasures like sound, which you can play in the menu, and puzzle 
 pieces, which are needed to complete the puzzle so you can play it as a mini game. The things will 
 make you want to go back and explore each level relentlessly. There are also mini games that use 
 the touch screen which you can unlock. All of these factors come to together to make this a very 
 long game, and make it last many hours, easily 20+, even more, if you never get tired of the levels. 
 
  
  Definitely buy this game. It has the charm and nostalagia that will win over any Nintendo fan, 
 and will even appeal to many casual gamers. And no, this is NOT a girl game. A game is a game. 
 There are grown men on gamefaqs who are buying this game. It's a fun game. That's the only thing 
 that should matter to you. This game could last you forever if you wanted it to, and if not, it 
 gets pretty close. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TAMKFan
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 10, 2006 12:01 am PT
Review:  I've actually been waiting for this game since I got a DS which was way back in August last year. 
 Peach is my favorite Mario character so I couldn't wait for her own game but it's worth it. Infact 
 this game was one of the reasons I bought a DS. The basic storyline is that Bowser and his friends 
 traps Mario and Luigi as well as Toad. And thus you (Princess Peach) have to go through different 
 levels to save them.
  
  Gameplay:9- Now this is one of the easiest games I ever played so far but I'm not one of those 
 people who criticize games for their difficulty unless a game is annoyingly hard. You can also 
 use these things called vibes that represent 4 different moods and you can build up your meter 
 to use them by "eating" an enemy or collecting blue crystals. In all levels (except boss levels) 
 you can save 3 Toads but it's only optional. I must find a purpose for this. Overall the gameplay 
 is kind of similar to the old Mario games.
  
  Graphics:9- The graphics are great despite the "kiddier picture" while playing. Peach's face on 
 the bottom screen is stunning and that's what brings the score up for graphics.
  
  Sound:9- Wow Peach sure has a nice voice. The sound FXs are what you would pretty much expect from 
 any Mario game. Some of the music is great like in the Volcano and Beach stages in particular.
 
  
  Value:9- Well you have all the Toads to save And then you unlock some new levels after you beat 
 Bowser. You can also purchase new moves and sound tracks from Toad's shop
  
  Pros:
  Peach's own game!
  Nice music
  Cool graphics
  Classic Mario gameplay with new technology.
 
  You have lots of Toads to save.
  You can purchase things.
  
  Cons:
  A couple bosses (such as Kamek) was annoying.
  You can't use Daisy
  
  Overall: Like I said 
 before don't let the cover and everything fool you. This game is not just for girls. So if you're 
 a guy and you're a Mario fan or Peach fan don't be shy and go out and buy this game. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: DidiCardoso
Rating: 8.8
Date: Mar 16, 2006 11:00 am PT
Review:  The princess no longer needs to be saved! 
  
  Defenders of Mushroom Kingdom Mario and Luigi have been kidnapped and it's up to no one other than 
 Princess Peach to save them and restore order. Bowser has taken control of a Vibe Wand and the 
 entire populace of Toads is in distress, running aimless and suffering from strange mood swings. 
 Thus begins your adventure, trying to catch the crazed Toads that run around all over the screen. 
 
  
  In Super Princess Peach, you play as Peach, who has also been affected by the effects of the Vibe 
 Wand. Equipped with her parasol and a set of recently discovered abilities, Peach sets out on a 
 journey to save her friends and her kingdom.
  
  The gameplay is reminiscent of the Super Mario Bros. games for the NES: typical 2D platformer, 
 goombas, koopas, bob-ombs and tubes. If you've played a Mario game, you will feel right at home 
 with the controls.
  
  The innovation is the emotional vibe system that gives Peach her special abilities. The bottom 
 screen displays the Heart Panel, where you can change Peach's mood. Each of her moods has a special 
 power:
  
  Joy: Peach sings and creates a little cyclone that makes her float, very useful to access higher 
 grounds or to activate windmills. 
  Rage: Peach gets mad and burns up in flames, making it easy to burn wooden bridges or melt ice 
 for accessing certain places. 
  Gloom: when Peach cries, and her tears can make vines grow, put out fires and set water mills in 
 motion. She also runs a lot faster while crying. 
  Calm: when Peach is cool and in control, she can recover her own HP. 
  Switching abilities happens 
 with a simple touch, but I wish there was a way to keep the stylus handy for this, just so I don't 
 get fingerprints all over the touch screen.
  
  Aside from her special abilities, Peach is armed with her trustworthy parasol Perry. Perry is extremely 
 useful for a number of reasons: whacking enemies out of the way, filling the vibe gauge by absorbing 
 enemies or floating on water. She can also use the coins collected in any stage to purchase new 
 abilities for her parasol from the Shop. The Shop also offers health and vibe gauge upgrades, as 
 well as little extras such as music.
  
  The Menu offers a glossary of everything you come across, puzzles that you can put together once 
 you find all the pieces, minigames (including a very cool one where you blow into the mic to make 
 Toad jump) , and other options that will become unlocked as you find or purchase them.
  
  While exploring the eight worlds, you will find a variety of collectibles: there are three imprisoned 
 Toads to be found per stage, puzzle pieces and other goodies to be discovered as you jump, run 
 and float through the levels.
  
  At the end of each world there is a boss fight. To make your way to the boss, first you need to 
 go through a mini-game of sorts that uses the stylus (the objective of the first one is to stretch 
 a series of elastic platforms and launch Peach up in the air to reach higher platforms while avoiding 
 winged goombas) . These pre-boss levels make really good use of the dual screens and the stylus/touch 
 screen. The boss fights themselves will require you to make good use of the different vibes, usually 
 with Perry giving you a hint at the beginning.
  
  The game is extremely user friendly, since there are plenty of helpful blocks with hints to tell 
 you about your abilities and how to react to certain surroundings. The upbeat music is quite pleasant, 
 and the animations are very well done, both in the Heart Panel and in game. I especially like how 
 Peach runs holding her dress up a little, how she spins her parasol and especially the hilarious 
 idle animation (do take the time to watch it) .
  
  What's important to note is that Super Princess Peach isn't really a game just for girls. Yes, 
 the protagonist is a female wearing a cutesy pink dress and parading around with a parasol, but 
 if you put that aside what you have is a very old-school Super Mario Bros. experience, only better.
 
  
  Peach has moved on from being fragile and defenseless to courageous and resourceful. The Princess, 
 who happens to have been there all along, has finally earned her much deserved spotlight. Nintendo 
 has found their new mascot, and most importantly, one that will probably attract more girls into 
 playing games.
  
  Review text part of Grrlgamer. com
  http://www. grrlgamer. com/review. php? g=superprincesspeach 
::::::

::::::
UserName: steff3121
Rating: 9.6
Date: Feb 27, 2006 5:27 am PT
Review:  You've all heard the story before; Princess rules land fairly, princess is kidnapped by giant dragon, 
 knight comes and saves her (or, in Mario's case, a plumber) . Well, now it's the "knight" who is 
 kidnapped by the giant dragon (Bowser) and taken to a place called Vibe Island, where the Vibe 
 Scepter is. Peach must rescue Mario from Bowser's grasp, and she does so using vibes (calm, sad, 
 happy, and enraged) and a parasel called Perry. The opening sequence is one of the few stories 
 that isn't related to Perry, but the parasel does have some good moments. The graphics fit the 
 mood perfectly, but this game is a tad on the easy side. Still, don't let that discourage anyone 
 who wants to see a knight in pink armor. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
