-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Superman Returns: The Videogame
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/ds/action/supermanreturnsthevideogame/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 Multiplayer mode would have been worthwhile if the game itself weren't complete garbage.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 Board game-style organization only serves as a way to impose a time limit.
 Action levels are small and there isn't much going on.
 Glitches and poor design decisions make completing action levels frustrating.
 Graphics and audio range from mediocre to downright unpleasant.
 There's only about an hour of actual gameplay.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Dec  8, 2006
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 2.3
Critic Score: 3.2, 10 Review (s)
User Score: 3.8, 102 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: EA Games
Developer: EA Tiburon
Genre: Beat-'Em-Up
Date: Nov 20, 2006
ESRB: Everyone

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Superman Returns for the DS is a terrible game for numerous reasons. 

  As you'd expect, Superman Returns for the Nintendo DS takes the story from the recent film and 
 expands on it by incorporating tangents involving other villains from the DC Comics canon. Sadly, 
 the story is the only aspect that the game comes close to getting right. There's nothing to the 
 board game-style presentation except that it provides another means for you to fail and have to 
 start over, and the action levels that populate the board are badly designed and full of problems 
 that hamper your ability to complete them. To make matters worse, the graphics and audio throughout 
 range from mediocre to downright ugly.  

          Superman Returns for the DS continues a long legacy of truly atrocious Superman games. 
     

  The single-player mode presents Metropolis as the squares on a game board and the various super 
 beings, including Superman, as the pieces on the board. The majority of squares are neutral, but 
 some of them turn into disaster areas when a villain appears. During each turn, you, as Superman, 
 and the bad guys can each move a certain number of squares. The general idea is to clean up the 
 disaster squares and land on the squares occupied by Braniac, Bizarro, and the three other evildoers 
 in order to challenge them to epic battles. Landing on a disaster square or initiating an epic 
 battle will bring up an action stage in a 3D environment where you can put Superman's powers to 
 good use. In the disaster stages, you have to do things like rescue a certain number of civilians, 
 uncover a certain number of explosive trucks with your X-ray vision, or put the freeze on a certain 
 number of henchmen before time runs out. Epic battles, meanwhile, are fistfights between Superman 
 and a super villain, where you have to land punches and kicks by pressing the buttons shown at 
 the proper time. All the while, Metropolis has a health indicator of sorts that ticks down each 
 turn and gets a boost or a jolt depending on whether you succeeded in cleaning up the disaster 
 or winning the battle you were just in.  

  The board game-style layout is an interesting idea, but there isn't much meat to it. You won't 
 uncover any bonus squares or rewards that you'd look forward to while playing a traditional board 
 game, and, although you can choose where to go, you'll eventually end up tackling all five villains 
 and their 15 related disasters regardless of how you reach them. Clearly, the sole purpose of the 
 game board was to come up with a way to give players a negative outcome. That makes sense in the 
 regard that Superman is invincible in the game, so, since he can't die, his overall success or 
 failure depends on whether or not Metropolis survives. Sensible or not, they could have done something 
 to make traveling the game board more exciting.  

  Running out of turns and seeing Metropolis perish at the hands of Superman's enemies is actually 
 a common outcome. It isn't that the disasters or epic battles are particularly complicated or difficult. 
 In theory, they ought to be easy. In practice, however, the controls are clunky and slow to respond, 
 and the levels themselves are full of glitches, graphical issues, and bad design decisions that 
 make it tough to complete missions in the limited time provided. Often, it's just that Superman 
 will get stuck up against a building for a couple seconds or a target won't appear until you back 
 up and move forward again. The time limits are nail-biters though, so these sorts of unpredictable 
 time wasters are usually catastrophic. In some instances, the culprit is a bad design choice on 
 the part of the development team. Take the missions in which you have to locate trucks filled with 
 explosives and hurl them into space, for example. You get a time bonus when you find a truck loaded 
 with explosives, but that time bonus is eaten up by the nonskippable cutscene that shows Superman 
 throwing the truck into space. There's also the matter of Bizarro's missions, which are displayed 
 upside down. That's cute, but the disorientation only adds to the frustration brought on by the 
 other problems. About the only positive thing that can be said about gameplay is that Superman's 
 invincibility, strength, and various super abilities are faithfully represented.  

  Fans of the movie won't get much payoff for suffering through the game. Aside from the missions 
 revolving around Braniac, Bizarro, Metallo, Mongul, and Parasite, there are a few extra missions 
 interspersed at preset intervals that are based on scenes from the film. They're all in-flight 
 missions in which you have to dodge obstacles and reach a goal before time runs out. The cutscenes 
 that are displayed between missions explain in a believable way when these other villains appeared 
 in relation to the events that transpired in the movie, and they incorporate movie imagery and 
 dialogue without skipping a beat, but the amount of movie imagery that's used is miniscule. As 
 it is, the images are all still frames, and the dialogue is purely text. Even though the Nintendo 
 DS is capable of full-motion video and recorded audio, this game features neither.  

  Overall audiovisual payoff is practically nonexistent, anyway. On the audio end, the music is generic 
 and loops constantly, while a good portion of the limited selection of sound effects are so shrill 
 that they'll probably make you flinch when you hear them. There's no reason why sound effects should 
 sound this painful coming from a Nintendo DS game, especially when the hardware is capable of much 
 better music and recorded speech. Visually, the game board portion is nothing more than some colored 
 squares and character icons, while the third-person stages are characterized by cookie-cutter buildings, 
 streets that look like pudding, and blocky characters that make the earliest PS and Nintendo 64 
 games seem cutting-edge by comparison. Bizarro has a blocky face and features by nature, but every 
 character, object, and vehicle in this game looks as if it was built out of rectangular blocks 
 bought at a toy store in Bizarro World. Although the stages are small, it's striking just how empty 
 they seem to be. There aren't any cars or people apart from those relevant to the mission, and 
 the only decorations are light poles and trash cans placed sparingly. Incredibly, even though the 
 stages are tiny and the graphics don't push many polygons, the frame rate has a habit of stuttering, 
 which can make it hard to stay focused on what's happening. All in all, this game is an affront 
 to the eyes and ears.  

  Despite how tough it is to get through the single-player mode, most people will load their save 
 data a few times and eventually reach the story's conclusion in an hour or two. Twenty-five or 
 so missions may seem like a lot, but it really isn't when you consider that most missions take 
 about a minute to complete. The only reason the single-player mode takes as long as it does to 
 finish is that you're forced to play through some missions multiple times thanks to all of the 
 glitches and design gaffes. Besides the main single-player mode, the game also features two multiplayer 
 modes. One is a multiplayer variation of the single-player mode, where as many as four players 
 can compete to see who can control the most territory in Metropolis. When a player lands on a square 
 occupied by another player, the two compete in a disaster showdown or an epic battle to decide 
 control of the square. Mr. Mxyzptlk also appears periodically to pass out trick items that you 
 can use to slow down your opponents. Each player needs his or her own copy of the game to play 
 in this mode. The other multiplayer mode requires only one player to have a cartridge, but it's 
 also fairly limited in that it doesn't feature the board game aspect and offers just a small selection 
 of one-off disaster showdowns. In either case, you probably won't feel compelled to try the multiplayer 
 modes since they're made up of the same cruddy levels from the single-player mode.  

  Whatever you do, stay away from the Nintendo DS version of Superman Returns. It hurts to play, 
 it hurts to see, and it hurts to listen to. Games based on movies usually aren't very good, but 
 this one is especially crummy.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (10 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: Kanakha
Rating: 1
Date: Jan 3, 2008 8:44 pm PT
Review:  This game was horrible! Atleast the XBOX version had a chance. The DS version is very basic, it's 
 very very very boring. The combat system is very weak, and the 'level select' is very confusing. 
 And if you can get past that, the game is waaaaay too easy. I would not reccomend getting this 
 game unless you really like boring, non-creative games. If you have another system, get the game 
 for that system instead! I'm a Super Man fan, and even this makes the line look very bad. It's 
 a big waste of time. Don't waste your money on the DS Version! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: metamorpho2000
Rating: 1
Date: Dec 21, 2007 5:15 pm PT
Review:  Gameplay-0.0-Most missions are collecting prisoners while an army of cops just stares at you. Also, 
 most of the game is moving around a boardgame-like city. Plus, if you lose, you have to start the 
 whole game over and it deletes your progress.
  
  Graphics-0.0-The enviroment and superman look flat and do not take advantage of the nintendo ds 
 being able to make 3d images.
  
  Sound-0.0-There is almost no sound, except for some weak explosion sounds.
  
  Value-0.0-Complete 
 waste of $20.00.
  
  Tilt-0.0-The angle of the camera is annoying, and things that are coming towards you only appear 
 when they are about to hit you.
  
  Overall-0.0-Worst game I have ever played. DON'T BUY IT!!!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sherlock99
Rating: 7
Date: Sep 9, 2007 9:45 pm PT
Review:  i thought superman returns was a fun game judgeing by some reviews alot of people thought the game 
 was bad the game itself can be a litttel reptive because most of the missions can repeat them selfs 
 alot the graphics arent the best the ds can offer sound quality is very poor the controls sometimse 
 can be a little fursting when you play the up-side down missions good thing the game it self was 
 only 3 dollars but i really liked the game alot its fun to pick up in play every once in a while 
 when there is nothing else to do. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: edrubb
Rating: 1
Date: Aug 16, 2007 12:06 pm PT
Review:  This is the worst Superman game I've ever played. The controls are simple and boring in the Hot 
 Spot sections. The gameplay is exactly the same for each of the Hot Spot levels, and quite a few 
 of them require pure luck to finish. The so called Epic Battles are ridiculous, with DDR style 
 battle controls, and 3 animations (the only change being who the villain is) . The actual graphics 
 aren't the worst I've ever seen but the cut-scenes are all in old Out of this World and Flashback 
 style cell shading... oh, and they're not even animated. The sound for this game is usually pointless 
 and sometimes annoying, sounding for the most part like PC speaker blips. I expected (quite) a 
 bit more from a game that could've (and should've) made much better use of the DS system. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: zcds
Rating: 2.3
Date: Apr 11, 2007 6:10 pm PT
Review:  Just when you thought it could not get any worse EA says your f'en wrong were do ibegen in this 
 train wreak of a game? Well fisrt off i kinda like the menue it's....... red.. and shows some space..... You 
 thought the console version of the storey was bad waite until lyou get a loade of theas still seans 
 with little dialog it hardly tells a storey at all. The maine game is like this your a gaint S 
 move from space to space to get to an enamey. But it's not that easey he'll make some disasters 
 that you have to take care of time for some action right? WRONG! it's a time challenge. Go across 
 a small areas and either destryo portals, keep buildings from colasping, or put out car fiers fun 
 hu? But waite the time limet is to strickt and some times the lock on dosent work so you gotta 
 fly outa the way then come back only to wast some of your time exstended on a stupid cutseen, Dose 
 this sound fun yet? well maybe it wil lsweeten the deal after I tell you that the controls are 
 horrable, superman flys so slugish and knida drunk, the control layout is often akward why put 
 a power i dont even use on this mission on the lay out? There is other missions like dodgeing billbords, or 
 coments, or ho bout looknig for the right phone booth. Boss fights are worse they are rythem games 
 press the buttons when they fall to the bottom of the screen fun right? its often to fast and thanks 
 to the circal button layout it's no fun. In the games defense it looks o kin some areas and when 
 you get to see superman he looks alright. The music is ok untill it loops over and over and annoys 
 you. Multipalyer is the worst i ever seen. Either you can paly singel card and race to solve a 
 crises (usley form the game) or paly a risk like game and when you colide with a palyer you have 
 a crises off, if I haited the maine game why would I want to drag more people into this? This is 
 a terrible game and should not be bought. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MadMoonX
Rating: 1.3
Date: Mar 5, 2007 6:53 am PT
Review:  After the craptastic Superman 64, I thought that the next games starring Superman would be a lot 
 better than the 64 game. Well....... I was wrong. Superman Returns for the DS can almost match Superman 
 64's awfullness. No, I am not kidding. You can even guess that this game is not good by the very 
 beginning. After you spend 10 seconds on the FLICKERING loading screen, you then will be brought 
 to the Main sh**... uh, sorry, Menu. From there, you can choose wether you want to play the adventure, 
 or play with a friend in 2-4P mode (try to avoid that for your sake) . Now, the gameplay. Basically, 
 you just fight a number of villains like Mongul or Bizzaro in something that looks like a board 
 puzzle. Since you are invinsible, Metropolis has a healthbar, which decreases each time it's being 
 attacked by a villain on the puzzle-looking thingy. The S cursor shows where you are and the other 
 cursors show where a villain is, or where trouble is being caused. If your cursor moves in the same 
 place where another cursor is, you will automatically be placed on a stage/boss stage. Mind you 
 that the boss stage cursors are moving, while the stages cursors are not. Beating a stage brings 
 new villains or stages at the puzzle-looking thingy, losing at a stage causes Metropolis to lose 
 health. If Metropolis loses all of her health, then it's Game. Over. As simple as that. Basically, 
 the puzzle-looking thingy is quite neat, but it's the only good thing I can say about the game. Boring 
 and repetitive stages will make you loose your interest as fast as they can, sloppy controls will 
 drive you insane and the boss stages will dissapoint you in every way possible. Bizzaro's stages 
 may have the upside-down feature, but they still remain bad designed, crappy, boring, uninspired, 
 etc. etc. etc. The graphics this game has are in a word, baaaaaaaaaaaad. Superman looks like a goofball 
 and he runs like his butt is on fire. You want more? Bland visuals, terrible character design and 
 a feeling that you are trapped inside a cruel, crappy and empty town. Ugh.
  
  The  his voice back* HOLY ****! The 
 sound sucks so much!!!!! No voice-overs, just some repetitive and painful to listen to tracks. All 
 in all, I think that the tracks are 8. Beautiful work, EA Tiburon. After I heard one track, I thought 
 I was deaf! Turn the volume down. You have been warned.
  
  The multiplayer mode is as bad as being stuck under your bed. I cannot describe Superman Returns 
 DS's multiplayer. After you spend 5 minutes on the FLICKERING loading screen, you then will play 
 one of the game's crappy stages with a friend, so you can share the awfullness. And........ that's 
 it. Seriously, there's almost nothing good to say about this game. It's joke easy and short. Actually, 
 the whole game is a joke. Some people hated it, I hated it twice. And my advice for this game is: Stay 
 away. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: strkr241
Rating: 6
Date: Dec 26, 2006 1:18 pm PT
Review:  I played Superman Returns on the Nintendo DS even though I had read the reviews that some people 
 gave it. And the game isn't as bad as some of the people said it was.
  
  The graphics wern't as good as they could have been (but not as bad as DS games such as Goldeneye: 
 Rogue Agent) . The game was colourful and didn't lag at all.
  
  The loading screens were criticised by some people but games need to load. So the loading screens 
 didn't bother me.
  
  The games sound effects wern't the best though. The music was good though and fitted the game really 
 well.
  
  The game only took about an hour to complete but you play the game quite a few times (because if 
 you fail the game, the chances are, you save the game at a point where you cannot change the outcome 
 of what happens to the city of Metropolis) . That makes the game last a bit longer and makes it 
 hard. The boss fights are really easy and quite fun.
  
  The game does a good way of telling the story (what there is of it on the DS) by using pictures 
 and text. Some reviews said that the game was glitchy but I didn't find any glitches on that game. 
 The unlockables on it wern't the best. The best bit about that game was flying at superspeed after 
 the airplane with the shuttle on top of it. Since the missions were very much like minigames, there 
 is quite a bit of replay value on that game.
  
  Superman Returns on the Nintendo DS is a good game with much unnecessary critism. It is worth borrowing 
 from a friend for a couple of hours and Superman fans should apprediate it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rye303
Rating: 1.8
Date: Dec 12, 2006 2:32 pm PT
Review:  This game just sux. I don't even need to explain myself. Just look at my review and others. If 
 parents are reading this, don't even get it for your little kids. they might even hate you for 
 this. I rather play nintendogs then this s**t
  (Im not saying get nintendogs for your son)
  
  But here is the pros in this game
  Pros: *cricket sounds*
  
  Superman returns should 
 be called superf@g returns. By now, you should get my point and if you don't here's the overall:
 
  DON'T BUY THIS GAME!!!
  
  (This game could be punishment for your children if they do bad) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kboy23
Rating: 2.7
Date: Dec 4, 2006 12:09 pm PT
Review:  One word can describe this game is crap , i played this game for a few minutes and it was horrible 
 and hardly worth the money i paid , unless its free dont get it. The graphics are absolutly terribele 
 and totaly bums the gameplay , and the controls feel awkward and the sound is terrible . Ea has 
 taken the DS lightly for to long ,the present failures has been to much for the ds , a quick buck 
 for the buisness man and litle detail and when they said they they would expand the time to make 
 it better thats what made me angry .But overall super man is not playable OR fun....... and my 
 regrets for the game this could have been. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: skscub23
Rating: 4.7
Date: Nov 30, 2006 1:19 am PT
Review:  It follows the story with some classic villians in between the gameplay. Some key moments are skipped 
 through rather quickly. At first it's dissapointing to realize that the villains are just filler 
 for the game, no real point other than to save the city from destruction. After you have a one 
 on one battle with each villain, stop their spread of evil, you realize there isn't much left to 
 the movie other than a rush through of saving Lois from Lex's boat and then throwing the New Krypton 
 city into space. Overall, the movis was far more entertaining than the game. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
