-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Super Black Bass Fishing
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/ds/sports/superblackbassfishing/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 Engaging stylus-based reel controls.
 Six lakes and multiple spots to fish.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 Lure choice doesn't seem to matter.
 Finding and hooking fish is too easy.
 Fish don't migrate and anglers don't deplete stock.
 DS can do better than these blocky rudimentary graphics .
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Apr 18, 2006
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 5.3
Critic Score: 3.3, 5 Review (s)
User Score: 5.8, 53 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Majesco Games
Developer: Starfish
Genre: Fishing
Date: Mar 28, 2006
ESRB: Everyone

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Apart from the stylus-based reel controls, there's nothing particularly good or interesting about 
 Super Black Bass Fishing. 

  Super Black Bass Fishing for the Nintendo DS is the latest in a long line of fishing games produced 
 by Starfish, a Japanese developer that has been producing superlative rod-and-reel sims since the 
 Super NES days. This particular game, however, isn't one of the company's better efforts. The touch-screen 
 fishing controls are engaging and the atmosphere is charming throughout, but there isn't enough 
 variety or flair to keep players interested for the long haul. Anyone expecting to find the same 
 photo-realistic visuals and intricate lure and reel systems that made the company's other games 
 so compelling will be disappointed by the blocky graphics and comparatively dumbed-down gameplay 
 in the Nintendo DS game.  

          Fish will bite the hook once they're angry enough.     

  Atmospherically, Super Black 
 Bass Fishing strives to emulate the experience of participating in competitive fishing tournaments. 
 You spend a full simulated day in a motorboat out on a lake trying to catch five of the biggest 
 prize fish possible. Prize fish vary depending on the tournament, but typically you will be told 
 to hunt for one or two varieties of bass (longmouth, spotted, or black, for example) . Fish that 
 make the weight cutoff are added to the day's catch, while smaller fish and fish species not on 
 the prize list are thrown back. At the end of the day, the top three finishers advance to the next 
 tournament. Players who manage to advance are rewarded with story scenes that tell the tale of 
 a young fisherman's quest to live up to his deceased father's legacy, as well as bonus lures that 
 make it easier to catch certain species of fish.  

  Each of the six included lakes offers multiple fishing areas populated with various species of 
 fish. So, before you cast, you have to pick a fishing spot, maneuver the boat into a good position 
 as suggested by the onscreen radar, and select an appropriate lure based on what type of fish you're 
 trying to catch. Although the setup procedure sounds complicated, it's actually rather easy, because 
 there are only a few preset spots in each fishing area where you can position the boat, and, while 
 there are 24 different lures, you can get by using one crankbait lure for shallow waters and another 
 crankbait lure for deep waters. Previous Starfish-produced fishing sims have given you pinpoint 
 control over boat positioning and have pretty much required the use of different lures based on 
 fish type, water depth, and time of day. Not that those factors don't have any influence at all 
 in Super Black Bass Fishing, but their effects are just so toned down that you can ignore them 
 if you like.  

  Although hooking a fish is easy, reeling it in takes a bit more work. It's a fun process, though, 
 because of the way the system's stylus and touch screen are used to simulate the action of spinning 
 the reel and yanking the rod. To cast the line, you first use the stylus or directional pad to 
 set the horizontal position of the line, and then you hold and release the A button or tap the 
 touch-screen meter to cast the line vertically. If the hook lands near a fish, the fish will start 
 swimming around vigorously and an onscreen indicator will show its mood toward the hook. Moods 
 such as caring or hungry don't mean much. Let the line sit there, though, and eventually the fish's 
 mood will turn to rage or anger, which means it's time to set the hook and reel in the fish. Tapping 
 down on the directional pad when the fish is under the hook will make the fish bite into it. To 
 reel in the fish, you make short downward strokes on the touch screen to gradually retrieve the 
 line. If the fish is putting up a struggle, you can drag the stylus left, right, or up to jerk 
 the rod in that direction. A meter on the touch screen indicates how much tension is on the line. 
 Generally speaking, you want to reel until the meter is full and let up until it empties again. 
 If the tension meter stays full too long, the line will break. Otherwise, once you've reeled the 
 catch back to the boat, the fisherman will automatically lift the fish out of the water and tell 
 you whether it's a keeper or a throwback.  

  Unfortunately, while the stylus-based reel controls are engaging, they're also the only aspect 
 of the game that's remotely interesting. There's no guesswork or challenge in finding fish, since 
 the boat's radar tells you whether or not there are fish in the general area, and the casting viewpoint 
 shows individual fish swimming below the waterline on the upper screen. Fish don't migrate or hibernate 
 as the day goes on, and the other anglers don't deplete the fish stock, which means you'll always 
 find the same fish floating in the same spots. Time is such an integral factor in actual fishing 
 tourneys, yet it has no bearing whatsoever in this game.  

  Also disappointing is the overall variety of fish, or the lack thereof. The blurb on the back of 
 the package says there are 500 types of fish in the game, but that number must factor in size classes, 
 because there are actually only a dozen or so species.  

          Each fishing spot offers a few places to park the boat.     

  Equally uninteresting 
 is the game's presentation. The lower screen contains a bare 2D representation of your fisherman 
 and the various meters that help you aim the lure and manage tension on the line. The upper screen 
 uses some fairly rudimentary polygon graphics to display a 3D view of the weeds, water, and fish 
 that populate each fishing area. Fish graphics are suitably sharp, and the splash effects are nice. 
 Once you reel in your catch, though, you're treated to a comically simple close-up view of the 
 fish you pulled in. In previous games, Starfish has gone to great lengths to make the fish in these 
 cutaway views look photo-realistic. That's not the case here. Meanwhile, audio is limited to a 
 cheesy elevator-music clip and a scant few reel and splash sound effects, which, admittedly, do 
 come across as authentic.  

  As many as four players can link their systems together to participate in custom tournaments. That's 
 a nice feature, but, honestly, since the game is so bland, the odds of finding other people to 
 play against locally are rather slim.  

  As fishing games go, Super Black Bass Fishing for the Nintendo DS is a bit of a letdown. Fans of 
 the genre who are accustomed to the complex lure setups and the photo-realistic fish graphics found 
 in other fishing games will be disappointed by the simplistic lures and blocky cartoon-style graphics 
 found here. Casual anglers, however, may be able to squeeze some fun out of the game, because the 
 underlying story is charming, and the process of reeling in the fish is quite engaging.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (5 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: MetsMan1964
Rating: 2
Date: Nov 6, 2007 11:33 pm PT
Review:  I usually write a fairly in-dept review, but this game does not need one. It is simply a very poor 
 game. Here is all you need to know.
  
  Graphics - very poor.
  
  Game play - probably the most boring game I've ever played. I was actually a moderately serious 
 bass fisherman when I was young, but this game is not realistic. At first it seems to hold some 
 promise, but after playing for five to ten hours, one can see that it is simply a joke.
  
  Sound - actually not bad.
  
  Stylus integration - okay, but could be much better.
  
  Fun 
 factor - NONE to be had.
  
  PLEASE! PLEASE! PLEASE! - will some developer create a fishing game that is fairly realistic and 
 fun!? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Crimson_Raven
Rating: 4.7
Date: May 29, 2006 1:12 am PT
Review:  Well I have to tell you I was pretty excited about this title before it was released and now I 
 glad I didn't buy it. Thank You Gamefly. com
  
  I so just wanted to fish and have a good ole merry time but nooooo, this game has to have terrible 
 controls and hard to catch fish.
  
  You can seriously fish for 5 minutes and not get a bite. And sometimes or should I say most of 
 the time when you do get a bite the fish will hook off or it will be the smallest piece of crap 
 fish you have ever seen.
  
  If you are a fisherman or just like fishing games I would just say to pass on this one and save 
 your money on the rental and/or the purchase.
  
  The sound is just as bad as the graphics but it the game had offered a better gaming experience 
 that I would say the graphics really don't matter, but it didn't and I got tired of the game after 
 2 days.
  
  Also another DS title without game sharing, Come on Nintendo push it don't let get away with leaving 
 such a great feature out.
  
  Thanks you for reading my review, Please chack out my others. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: King_Ds
Rating: 8.9
Date: Apr 28, 2006 5:33 am PT
Review:  A really fun DS game.
  A 1.0 is not true!
  Either is my brother's 5.7.
  A 9.0 iss a good score!
  The gameplay is really fun the ds makes fishing games fun! The stylus 
 based controls are good. The stroy is good. 4 people can play it!
  
  The graphics are just plain bad. BAD. horrible. Kinda colorful.
  
  The sound is awesome!
 
  
  I like this game! But it just plain fun! 
  
  Those 10 people who want this game get it!
  
  8 have it!
  
  2 are playing it! (I'm one)
 
  
  17 are tracking this game it is a really fun game.
  
  My first reviewed game gets a 9.0 
::::::

::::::
UserName: RedPanther95
Rating: 5.7
Date: Apr 22, 2006 3:21 pm PT
Review:  This game is one of the worst for the D to the S.
  
  The stylus reel control is actually perrty fun. Catching fish is still frustrating when you wait 
 for hours upon hours. And hours and hours and hours and hours and hours and hours and hours and 
 hours and hours a bite reel reel ahh it is a dum shoe. Cast bwahhh.
  
  The graphics can kill someone and make your eyes dissolve into acid. 
 
  
  The sound is also horrible like the game. 
  
  Better than most fishing games. NAtsume should make one for the DS. If you have a DS avoid this 
 game. PLEASE!!!
  
  Okay if you like fishing. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ninten_fan
Rating: 1
Date: Apr 8, 2006 4:56 pm PT
Review:  ... stupid fishing game ever.
  
  Gameplay - It gets repetitive and sometimes anoying not only that but its kinda boring..
  
 
  Graphics - the graphics look like a Game boy color game.. They didnt even try to do anything...
 
  
  sound - wow the sound here is anoying.. and there is nooo MUSIC thats worth hearding becouse its 
 just bleeps and bloops.,.
  
  Vaue - itll be fun until like 30 minutes...
  
  controls - controls are ok but what is the point if the Gameplay is weak..
  
  Description - 
 This is probably the worst game for DS and its even worse then elf bowling 1 and 2... Give this 
 game to someone you hate becouse trust me it will ruin there life at how awfull this game really 
 is.. If you see it in a store destroy it becouse its evil.
  
  
  
  
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
