-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Super Mario 64 DS
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/ds/action/dssupermario4x4/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 A great update of a classic game.
 Just enough has been changed to make old players have to think to proceed.
 Minigames are fun and highly addictive.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 Control isn't as tight as the original.
 Sound occasionally a little tinny.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Nov 19, 2004
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 8.4
Critic Score: 8.6, 79 Review (s)
User Score: 8.9, 12,230 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Nintendo
Genre: 3D Platformer
Date: Nov 20, 2004
ESRB: Everyone

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Super Mario 64 DS is a great update of a classic game. 

  Today, polygonal gaming is a given. We've advanced through a few generations of 3D gaming hardware, 
 and generally speaking, 3D graphics are in a pretty good spot right now. But when polygonal games 
 were first delivered to the masses, it was a huge paradigm shift that not only affected the way 
 we looked at games, but also the way we played them. Systems that could portray large, more realistic 
 3D environments used to cost thousands of dollars, but were now on sale for $299 or less in the 
 form of the PlayStation and the Nintendo 64, among others. In 1996, Nintendo released Super Mario 
 64, the game that rewrote the book for the platforming genre, and in many ways, console gaming 
 in general. It's one of the greatest games of all time... and now you can fit an updated version 
 of that game into your hip pocket with the release of Super Mario 64 DS. Though the game's controls 
 will take some getting used to, the addition of some new areas and new playable characters make 
 the adventure feel fresh, and some inventive minigames give you a pretty great reason to use the 
 system's stylus.  

          The game that created the modern platformer holds up pretty well in its transition to a 
 handheld platform.     

  Nintendo has been rereleasing its Mario games for its handheld systems for years, most recently 
 via the Super Mario Advance series on the Game Boy Advance. Now that trend has carried over to 
 the DS. Super Mario 64 DS is, essentially, the same game that was released back in 1996, though 
 a few new twists and turns have been added. Though the game still opens with Peach inviting Mario 
 to her castle (where she subsequently is kidnapped) , you don't actually play as Mario right off 
 the bat. Mario now shows up for the party with Wario and Luigi in tow, and the three of them enter 
 the castle and promptly vanish. Yoshi, who has been sleeping on top of the castle (which is actually 
 where he was hidden in the original game) , wakes up, notices that everything seems just a little 
 too quiet, and sets off to find the missing characters.  

  At this point, the game sets off as you'd expect if you've played the original, with Yoshi hopping 
 around, jumping into paintings, and collecting power stars. Yoshi controls almost identically to 
 Mario, though instead of Mario's three-hit combo attack, Yoshi can stick out his tongue and swallow 
 enemies whole, turning them into eggs that you can toss at other enemies. Eventually, you'll find 
 Mario, Luigi, and Wario, and you'll be able to switch between them whenever you like. Aside from 
 Yoshi's tongue attack, the characters control almost identically. Luigi and Yoshi can jump a bit 
 higher; Wario's punch is powerful enough to break bricks that the others can't dent; and Mario 
 is the only character that can triangle-jump off of walls. Also, the game's flower power-up has 
 a different effect on each of the four characters, and this sort of replaces the switch blocks 
 from the original game, which gave Mario access to different hats with different effects. When 
 you collect a flower with Mario, he inflates like a balloon and you can float around for a brief 
 period of time; Yoshi gains the ability to breathe fire; Wario turns into metal when he grabs the 
 flower, making him invincible, but also giving him the occasionally required ability to walk underwater 
 on the floors of lakes and other bodies of water; and Luigi turns invisible for a brief period, 
 which also gives him the ability to walk through some obstacles. Since some stars require specific 
 power-ups, you'll occasionally have to swap in another character to get the job done.  

  The original Mario 64 relied heavily on the N64's analog joystick, so Mario 64 DS gives you a few 
 different control options that attempt to emulate the control in different ways. By default, the 
 game is configured to let you play without using the system's touch screen. The D pad is used for 
 movement, and the buttons are used for jumping, ducking, attacking, and running. While you can 
 also use the touch screen for running, the other two control modes are somewhat better suited for 
 use with the touch screen, letting you shuffle the buttons around a bit to give you more control 
 over your character. Although the three options do a decent job of letting you control your character, 
 none of them are quite as refined as the analog joystick that was used to control Mario back in 
 the original game. The D pad's digital nature makes moving with it rather imprecise. It attempts 
 to make up for the lack of refinement by being a little more momentum-based, but you'll still find 
 yourself running off of ledges more often than you'd like. Using the touch screen really isn't 
 much better. You'll have full analog control over your movement, but changing directions isn't 
 as fluid as it should be. The control issues aren't insurmountable, but it's a bummer that the 
 game doesn't control as well as the original. Super Mario 64 is a game that requires a lot of precision 
 movements, and it's unfortunate that none of the available control options are quite up to the 
 task.  

  Mario 64 DS puts on a great show from a graphical standpoint. This time around, the character models 
 have an increased poly count that makes them look much, much better than the eight-year-old N64 
 game after which it is modeled. You'll still run across an ugly texture or two, but the game runs 
 at a great, smooth frame rate and looks bright and colorful. The rough spots are also smoothed 
 out a bit by the fact that you're playing it on a small, sharp screen instead of a television. 
 The map on the lower screen is a little fuzzy in spots and isn't quite as easy to read as it should 
 be, but it works. The graphics used in the minigames are also quite strong.  

  Super Mario 64 was an amazing game back when it was originally released. For the most part, the 
 game holds up pretty well, though there are a few head-scratchers that may have players wondering 
 how we ever got by back then. The camera in the game isn't so hot. While you have the option to 
 rotate the camera manually or center it behind your character, you still have to spend quite a 
 lot of time controlling it to make sure you're getting a proper view of the action. Also, some 
 of the stars you're trying to collect are devilishly difficult to find, to the point that unless 
 you remember the original game very well (or throw up your hands and read a FAQ from the original 
 game) , you'll have to run around levels like a maniac, hoping that you stumble upon the solution. 
 One level in particular has you launch yourself out of a cannon at a specific, unmarked section 
 of a specific, unmarked wall, which will then break apart and reveal a star. The only clue you're 
 given is the objective's title, "blast away the wall." The section of wall is pretty small, so 
 even if you had the bright idea of getting in the cannon and firing yourself at the two or three 
 walls that are in direct view of the cannon, you still might not hit the right spot, and then you'll 
 just give up. This can make for some extremely frustrating moments if you still aren't familiar 
 with the original game.  

  The DS's touch screen is used to display a top-down map of the current area. Points of interest, 
 like stars, are highlighted on the map. The map actually makes many of the game's stars much easier 
 to find, unlike the aforementioned goal with the cannon. If a star is out in the open, it will 
 appear on the map, making it pretty easy to grab. Each level also has eight red coins, which can 
 be collected for -- yes, that's right -- yet another star. Coins don't always show up on the map, but 
 if you track down a bob-omb buddy in each level, he'll let you see the coins on the map for a brief 
 period of time. Some of those objects are pretty difficult to find without the map, and its inclusion 
 does serve to make the game a bit easier.  

  While the gameplay has its share of spots that haven't aged so well overall, and the control isn't 
 perfect, Super Mario 64 DS is still a lot of fun. It's a huge game with large, colorful environments, 
 and it pulls off some neat tricks and presents you with interesting and compelling puzzles. The 
 game also contains a handful of new areas to explore, though many of these smaller areas really 
 aren't all that interesting. The core game and the fights against Bowser are still the stars of 
 the show here.  

  If you're near three other DS users, you can play a competitive four-player mode. This mode only 
 requires you to have one game card, taking advantage of the system's wireless game download feature 
 to transmit the necessary data to the other systems. Unfortunately, the multiplayer is a pretty 
 uneventful competition, where the goal is to be the player holding the most stars when time expires. 
 So you will battle against the other three players, getting them to drop stars and collecting them 
 for yourself whenever possible. There are only a few different multiplayer levels to choose from, 
 and by and large, this whole mode feels like an afterthought. It's a nice extra and a great chance 
 to check out the DS's wireless multiplayer, but it isn't something worth going back to again and 
 again.  

  Also in the extras category are a series of stylus-oriented minigames. You'll start out with eight 
 games, but as you play through the adventure you'll be able to find and catch rabbits, each of 
 which gives up a key that unlocks another new minigame. The minigames are varied, fun, and addictive. 
 Each one usually revolves around one specific activity, such as using the stylus to draw back a 
 slingshot and fire shots at parachuting bob-ombs floating down from the top screen, drawing lines 
 that become trampolines to keep three Marios bouncing around from screen to screen, or even playing 
 a game of Memory at Luigi's casino.  

          The control isn't as precise as it should be, but you'll get used to it eventually.    

  Super Mario 64 DS retains the same music and speech samples used in the original game, though some 
 new samples were added for the new characters and a few effects have changed. Stomping an enemy 
 now makes a more standard, Super Mario Bros.-like "stomp on a goomba" noise, instead of the higher-pitched 
 squeak used in the original game. The tunes are extremely memorable, and even if you don't already 
 have nostalgic feelings, you'll still come away humming many of the game's themes. Just about the 
 only downside is that some of the effects sound slightly tinny and they're played back at a low 
 bit rate, so they don't sound as clear as they could have. These effects are extra noticeable when 
 using headphones. On the upside, the game's stereo separation is very noticeable, and it does a 
 good job of making you appreciate the system's stereo speakers.  

  All things considered, Super Mario 64 DS is a great update of a classic game. While some portions 
 of the game have aged better than others, and while the control could've been a little tighter, 
 the game is done right enough to make it a faithful update for fans of the original; new players 
 will certainly find a lot to like here, as well. This is clearly and deservedly the flagship game 
 for the Nintendo DS launch.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (691 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: ssszzz8
Rating: 8.5
Date: Apr 19, 2009 10:57 am PT
Review:  Super Mario 64 DS is a really great game. You play as Yoshi, and you must save Peach after she 
 is stolen from Bowser. As you play as Yoshi, you can unlock new characters who are Mario, Luigi, 
 and Wario. Each character carries different traits. For example, Wario can brick black bricks, 
 while Mario can break only regular bricks. Yoshi can swallow enemies and fire eggs, while other 
 characters cannot. You actually journey in Peaches castle. You enter many rooms (which you must 
 unlock) , and jump into the painting. Then you select the goal you want to do, such as collecting 
 all 8 red stars, or defeating a boss. If you accomplish your goal, you are given a star. When you 
 reach a certain amount of stars, you can unlock new rooms and levels. There are also Bowser battles. 
 If you kill him, you are given a key. The key unlocks new worlds, and new mini games you can play 
 in the Rec Room. 
  
  The Good : there are over 120 stars to collect * fun boss battles * a ton of worlds to unlock * 
 cool powerups * mini games are very addictive and fun * great 3-d graphics * great looking environments.
 
  
  The Bad : multiplayer is really boring * only four characters to play as * Frustrating at some 
 times * hard to control the character in water * sometimes bad camera view.
  
  I totally recommend this great game. Have a good day, and check out my other reviews! Rate this 
 review UP please! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bladex8
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 18, 2009 11:48 am PT
Review:  Super mario 64 was originally a game for 64. This is an amazing remake on the ds.
  
  The story : Princess peach send mario a letter :
  Dear mario,
  please come to the castle I 
 baked a cake for you.
  from peach.
  So mario goes to the mushroom kingdom with luigi (his brother) and wario (a villian but he is a 
 hero for some reason)
  Yoshi is sleepng outsude the castle. a koopa wakes him up and tells him that mario still hasn't 
 returned yet. So yoshi starts to investigate. He gets in the castle when he founds the key (stolen 
 by a rabbit) .
  Toad tells yoshi bowser has locked his friend up in rooms, stole the power stars and put them in 
 the castles pictures.
  
  As yoshi you must retrieve the power stars. later on you will unlock mario, luigi and wario playable. 
 There are secret levels with bossbatless defeat one and you will get a key of one of the characters. 
 peach will be free when you defeat bowser but she is not playable. There are 150 stars. 7 in 15 
 courses. There are some secret stars. when you collect 100 coins in one course you get a star. 
 so collect as many stars as possible but you unclock the final boss with 80 stars.
  
  Improved graphics from n64. great controls. Unlockables make you play this game very long. also 
 they have added minigames some are unlockables and a vs-mode.
  
  This game is very recommandable. When you have a DS buy it.
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Oskjerta
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 17, 2009 12:34 am PT
Review:  I don't have this game, but anyways, 
  I know what it's like, Super Awesome game,
  Much better than the original version.
  
  The good :)
  1. Get to Play as Wario. Yosh. Mario 
 & Luigi
  2. The AR's AKA gamesharks R good in this game, much better than the original 
 
  3. Completely redone
  
  The bad : (
  
  1. AR makes the game freeze/crash
  
  If U like SM64, U would definitely like this,
  For all mario fans, this is a must get!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!
 
  
  good game, rate this max, Have fun in this!! Have a Happy and safe Easter!!
  
  Wisdom is UR 
 
  
  
  Don't listen to everything I say!!!!!!!!!
  
  Oskjerta signing off!!!!
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: sonicr2u
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 23, 2009 3:33 pm PT
Review:  One of the best games for the Nintendo DS. So, at the end of my review I'll say why it got the 
 rank. So, it was good because it updated in a big way. Now, instead of just Mario, you can play 
 as him, Luigi, Wario and my favourite character, Yoshi. The graphics were smoother, controls a 
 bit better, and the characters looked serious to me. (Probably wanted to scare me) Anyway, the 
 reason why it got 9.0 because the controls are confusing, and it is still frustrating. THE END 
 - again..... One of the best games for the Nintendo DS. So, at the end of my review I'll say why 
 it got the rank. So, it was good because it updated in a big way. Now, instead of just Mario, you 
 can play as him, Luigi, Wario and my favourite character, Yoshi. The graphics were smoother, controls 
 a bit better, and the characters looked serious to me. (Probably wanted to scare me) Anyway, the 
 reason why it got 9.0 because the controls are confusing, and it is still frustrating. THE END 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Vyse-the-Legend
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 19, 2009 4:29 am PT
Review:  Super Mario 64 was without a doubt one of the best games of all times, and Nintendo has given you 
 the ability to put that in your pocket. This game is essentially a Super Mario 64 remake, which 
 is certainly a good thing. You spend the entire game roaming around Peach's castle and obtaining 
 power stars in order to rescue her. 80 percent of the power stars you obtain come from the same 
 15 courses as the original game. All of these courses are different and fun in their own ways. 
 There are an additional 30 power stars to obtain in this game along with 3 new playable characters: 
 Luigi, Wario, and Yoshi. Although this game is mainly a remake, there are enough differences and 
 new additions to make this an altogether different game. 
  Unfortunately this game is not without flaws. The controls are without a doubt the worst aspect 
 of this fine game. 1) You have to press Y to dash, which is really crappy because you are automatically 
 using both thumbs just to run. This makes performing a long jump more challenging because you have 
 to use Y to dash and then hit R+B in unison. In the original game, you pressed up on the control 
 stick and then Z+A, a task much more simple. 2) The camera is not so great in this game. I did 
 not mind changing the camera with the c buttons in the original game, but the problem that I have 
 in SM64DS is the fact that you have to use the touch screen in order to change the camera and have 
 I already mentioned that you already need your thumb to run and jump. Therefore, it is pretty much 
 impossible to dash and change the camera at the same time. This can cause some major slowdown. 
 3) Finally, the D-Pad is not quite as good as the joystick, but I do realize that the DS does not 
 have a joystick and I think Nintendo did the best possible job with it. 
  Besides those couple of flaws, Super Mario 64 DS is really a great game that I enjoyed thoroughly. 
 The game is not extremely challenging to beat, yet it is challenging to obtain all 150 power stars. 
 Once you get use to the controls, you'll have a lot of fun with it. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mastersword101
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 12, 2009 4:35 pm PT
Review:  This game is completely underrated by critics worldwide! I grew up on playing Super Mario 64 on 
 the N64 and I have seen great improvements within this ds game. Bowser is more proportioned, mario 
 looks better, extra characters were added- so? why is this game given such a low rating? I'm sure 
 other people can say the same aswell. From all of the people I have spoken to, they have all said 
 that this game deserves at least a 9/10. But I suppose people are entitled to their own opinion, 
 on rating it as an 8/10... I can kind of see where people are coming from when they say that the 
 controls are kind of awkward. But if you use the dual hand mode, it is really quite smooth. People 
 should play Super Mario 64 on the 64 to truly appreciate it!
  Everyone should give this game a chance, especially if you enjoy playing classic games. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GameQueen1975
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 2, 2009 5:35 am PT
Review:  They don't make games like this anymore. I'm soo glad DS picked up the game because it is truly 
 a great game. I've been meaning to buy the DS and this game for 2 years now I finally brought it 
 and have almost completely neglected my PC games just for this game. 
  
  I will probably let my kids play with it only after I myself have exhausted the game to it's complete 
 end. My favorite couse (becaue it is probably the easiest is 3 .) My least favorite is that Lava 
 Course... (9) I think...
  
  Some of the tricks and hidden stars are really hard to find but if your looking for a challenge. 
 This is definely, a game with challenges. And will keep you playing for hours and hours. 
  
  My Friend and I remember when this game first game out. And How difficult it was for us to 
 understand it at first. Infact, because it was soo different from the previous mario games she 
 didn't get into it.. But through her son I really learned to like this game alot and he made it 
 easier for me to enjoy this game for all it's worth besides. I don't think they can make a better 
 Mario. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: JerWroten
Rating: 6.5
Date: Mar 1, 2009 4:12 pm PT
Review:  Don't get me wrong: The original Super Mario 64 was a good game, it just doesn't seem to fit the 
 DS well, unlike The New Super Mario Bros., which is a perfect fit. 3D graphics on the DS, with 
 few exceptions, just don't come out that strong. I didn't play through this one long, I found my 
 hand cramping after one play session, and although the game itself is good, I'd much rather wait 
 to download it on the Wii, where I can play it in its original graphic glory and with a controller 
 that won't have my hand in knots. Controlling the camera with the R and L buttons should work fine, 
 but the gamepad on the DS just isn't designed for the kindof control you need to play this game. 
 The inclusion of the new characters, Wario, Yoshi, etc., just seemed kindof lame. Stick with Mario, 
 Nintendo. The new characters seemed to detract from the gameplay rather than add anything to it. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Trickedoutps3
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 18, 2009 3:47 pm PT
Review:  So nintendo decided to release Super Mario 64 for the DS and it was a great choice as a launch 
 title for the DS.
  
  The Gameplay is very good. Most people think that this is a port for the original one that was 
 on the N64, but I am pretty sure it isn't. In this one you can play as 4 different characters, 
 each possessing a unique skill that you must use in order to get all 150 stars. To say the least, 
 getting all 150 stars is really fulfilling in itself.
  
  The Graphics are some of the best that I have seen on the DS. For being a launch title this seems 
 surprising and it is. The graphics are very close to as good as the N64s were, which is surprising 
 coming from a handheld. 
  
  The Difficulty is not for the weak of spirit. Some of the stars are in obvious locations, but others 
 are very hard to get and really hidden. I am pretty sure that I could not have gotten all 150 stars 
 without a walkthrough to get some of the last ones. However, the game itself is pretty average 
 as far as difficulty goes.
  
  Overall this game is definately worth picking up, especially if you liked the first one. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: marcogamer07
Rating: 8.5
Date: Feb 14, 2009 3:18 pm PT
Review:  So, had Super Mario 64, and I also bought the Super Mario 64 DS version. This was the first game 
 I owned for my DS. I bought it, played it, beat it and what a load of fun it was. It even has me 
 coming back to it once in awhile. 
  
  The first thing that impressed me was that there was an improvement over the original version. 
 The graphics are better than the original for one, and this is on a handheld portable system! The 
 music and sound effects are pretty much the same, so I can't really say anything about that. One 
 part that annoys me is that there's a whole lot more bunnies that you have to catch. Remember the 
 annoying rabbit in the basement? Well, there's more bunnies to catch! I hate those things! 
  
  So anyways, at the start, you have the intro like the first one, except this time, not only 
 Mario comes out of the pipe, but Luigi and Wario do too. After a cheesy cutscene of them fighting 
 with each other (well it looked like it) , they go into the castle and don't come back out. The camera 
 then zooms to Yoshi, who's having a peaceful snooze on the roof of the castle, where he usually 
 hangs out.
  
  So, as it turns out, Mario, Luigi and Wario have been locked up in the castle (god knows how they 
 got locked up, i have no clue) and you are playing as Yoshi. That's four different characters you 
 get to play as! What an improvement! Here's a quick rundown of the characters. Yoshi can use his 
 tongue to swallow enemies. He can also do this weird jump in the air, he kicks his legs and it 
 helps him stay in the air a bit longer. Luigi has the weird high jump too and can vanish through 
 walls. Wario has super-strength, he can smash things and he can walk underwater with the metal 
 cap. Mario has the most abilities. He has the traditional wing cap that lets him fly around, he 
 has a balloon ability that turns him into a balloon and enables him to float into hard-to-reach 
 places, and he can turn into Giant Mario, kind of like the giant mushroom in New Super Mario Bros. 
 On top of that, there are caps hidden throughout the 15 worlds. There are Mario, Luigi and Wario 
 caps that you can grab to turn into the character depending on what cap you grab. I have to mention 
 a tip while playing this. After you've unlocked all three of the other characters it is good to 
 be Yoshi for collecting stars because at the beginning of a stage. there are caps that you can 
 select via the Touch Screen. This is useful if the star you're going to collect requires a certain 
 ability that you need. Here's an example. In Hazy Maze Cave (in case you forget, it's the level 
 with the giant sea monster at the bottom and where you originally found the metal cap, you get 
 to it by jumping in a pool of black water in this room with pipes all over the place in the basement 
 of the castle) , there's a star that requires you smash these rocks rolling down into the black 
 hole in the cave. Given that you can be one character at a time, if you were Mario or Luigi, you'd 
 either have to find a cap in the level (you can get a Wario cap from the goombas at the beginning 
 of the level) , or go back upstairs to the room where you select your characters, select Wario, 
 then come back all the way down to the basement again to the level as Wario. But if you were Yoshi, 
 just touch Wario's cap before you enter the level, and then you're good to go.
  
  To unlock the characters, you have to beat these bosses to retrieve special keys that are used 
 to unlock Mario's, Luigi's and Wario's cells. Their cells are the room where the slide was in the 
 N64 version. For Mario, you have a giant goomba king. For Luigi, you have Big Boo and for Wario 
 you have this giant Chilly guy who seems to be a bit cocky about his icy moustache. Anyways, done 
 describing the characters, onto the gameplay.
  
  First, let's talk about the controls. The controls are a flop. Instead of simply using the D-Pad 
 to move, you have to hold Y and use the D-Pad. X is to adjust the camera, B is to jump, A is to 
 attack and R is to crouch. The controls feel awkward and sensitive, your character just slides 
 all over the place. It is really hard to get used to. Why can't you just hold the D-Pad to run? 
 It worked with the N64, just tilt the analog stick if you want to run! Then the controls wouldn't 
 be so damn complicated! Fortunately this is really the only thing wrong with Super Mario 64 DS. 
 You're going to have to get used to the horrid controls if you wanna play and beat this game. There's 
 even a mode where you use the Touch Screen and this isn't even worth it since it is a complete 
 pain to control. Just use the buttons. I got to used to it, and so can you. I suck at video games 
 anyway, so that's saying a lot. 
  
  So anyways, you're Yoshi. You try going into the castle, but it's locked. Turns out that you need 
 a key to open the castle door, and to get the key, you have to catch the bunny in the little garden 
 in the castle grounds. You're going to have to do a lot of rabbit hunting in this game, there's 
 rabbits everywhere in the castle. These unlock mini-games, which brings me to my next point.
  
  The mini-games. You unlock them by catching bunnies. Each character has their own mini-games. 
 Red rabbits unlock Mario's games, Green rabbits unlock Luigi's games, Orange rabbits unlock Wario's 
 games and the regular coloured yellow rabbits unlock Yoshi's mini-games. These mini-games are then 
 kept in your Rec-Room. This can be accessed by touching the Rec-Room button on the start-up screen. 
 If you don't do this, but change your mind and want to play mini-games, you're in luck. There's 
 a room in the castle beyond the room where you select your characters. Go in the room, talk to 
 the Toad inside and you can play your mini-games. This is another thing that's new to Mario 64 
 DS. The mini-games are actually quite fun to play when you're bored. Another good thing is is that 
 once you unlock a mini-game, it stays there, you never have to catch the rabbits again.
  
  So anyways, other than that, the gameplay is pretty much the same. Collect stars to unlock new 
 levels in the castle, jump into paintings and beat Bowser. However, this time there are 150 stars. 
 There are many new stars in the game, a few of them requiring you collect 5 Silver Stars throughout 
 the levels. These are new to the game. The original boss fights are still there, you still have 
 the Bob-Omb king, the giant hands with eyeballs, the Whomp, Big Boo, that annoying stupid bird 
 in the sand level that takes your hat and the eel in Jolly Roger Bay. Some of the levels are designed 
 a bit differently and well... it's Super Mario 64 on the DS. That's all there really is to know.
 
  
  There's a multiplayer mode where if you have up to four other people to play with you can all play 
 these mini-games together.
  
  Overall, this game is worth buying if you can get past the crappy controls. Otherwise, this is 
 an excellent underrated DS title and a good remake of a classic Nintendo 64 game. A lot of people 
 may say it's bad because of the bad controls, but get used to it and it may become a great experience 
 for the first time playing and beating the game. Give it a chance, you might enjoy it! :D
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: megamannt123
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 9, 2009 2:17 pm PT
Review:  The original mario 64 was great, and the remake is even better! Easily worth $30, this game will 
 keep you entertained for hours.
  
  The story consists of mario, luigi, and wario appearing in front of Princess Peach's castle after 
 getting an invite for cake. They go inside the castle, but don't come back out. The camera then 
 shifts to yoshi, sleeping on top of the castle roof. It's up to him to save the others from bowser, 
 who has imprisoned the others inside of pictures within the castle.
  
  The gameplay consists of exploring the castle's many rooms in search of power stars, the key to 
 unlocking other rooms to progess the story. You start out as yoshi, going from room to room and 
 jumping into pictures to start one of the levels. You select the mission you want to play, then 
 drop into the world. Each mission has a certain objective to clear in order to acquire a power 
 star. Most are straight-forward, while others require you to think, and some require certain characters 
 to complete. Eventually, with a little searching, you will obtain the keys to unlock the rest of 
 the characters to use throughout the game. There are also minigames to play which are actually 
 quite entertaining. The rooms are mostly the same, with a few additions, and the castle's layout 
 stays true to the original design.
  
  The controls are pretty simple, using A to attack, B to jump, L or R to crouch, holding down Y 
 to sprint, etc. With Yoshi, you have a triple jump with an extra hover if you hold down the jump 
 button, swallowing enemies with his tongue, and fire breath once you get a power flower to use. 
 Mario has a triple jump, punches and kicks, and he can float to high places with a power flower. 
 Luigi (the best character) has a high triple jump, punches and kicks, he can run on water for a 
 short time, swims fast, can crouch down and do a continuous hover flip to go great distances, and 
 can run through metal and enemies with a power flower. Wario has a low triple jump, punches and 
 kicks, and can turn into metal to become invincible or sink to the bottom of water with a power 
 flower. All the characters have their uses, so try them all.
  
  The graphics are great for a 3-D handheld mario game and there are no glitches whatsoever. The 
 characters handle smoothly and everything works great! Music is nicely done as well. 
  
  Overall, I would recommend this to anyone who likes adventure games or Mario, but anyone could 
 have a good time with this game. Cheers! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MusicMegaFan
Rating: 9.5
Date: Feb 8, 2009 9:57 am PT
Review:  Super Mario 64 DS Is Just Astounding. I Can't Believe Nintendo Could Make Such An Incredible Game. 
 The 3D Graphics Are Just Amazing And The Story Is Really Good Aswell. Basically It's Just A Port 
 Of The Original Super Mario 64 Game But With Added Features Such As, 30 New Power Stars To Collect 
 Meaning You Have More Missions To Complete. This, In Ways, Is Better Than The New Super Mario Bros. 
 Game, But In Ways Can Be Worse Aswell. I Acctually Completed The Game A Few Weeks Ago And It Said 
 There Were 150 Power Stars To Collect, But I Got 80 And Beat Bowser For The Third Time. Here's 
 A Tip: Stand Under The Sun Mat Once You've Got 14 Power Stars And You Can Unlock The ? Boxes. Super 
 Mario 64 DS Overall Is An Amazing Game That SHOULD Be Played By Anyone Who Owns A Nintendo DS Or 
 Loved The Original 64 Version Of The Game. 5/5, Great Game=Classic. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DMLSLAT
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 3, 2009 5:11 pm PT
Review:  The Good: There's even more content than ever with minigames and 30 more Power Stars; four characters 
 switching off makes the game more challenging and fun; the graphics are superior to the N64 version; 
 3-D controls actually work; there's a lot of world to explore; you'll want to collect all the Power 
 Stars, not just 80; each character has cool powers specific to them, all of which make sense; you 
 get to jump on Goombas.
  
  The Bad: Camera controls aren't as good as they were in 1996; the game's difficulty goes up and 
 down sporadically; some minigames are stupid; a lot of enemies aren't Goombas.
  
  Mario is probably the most famous character ever in a video game, except maybe Pac-Man. No, Master 
 Chief, Link, and the God of War don't even come close. Actually he's probably the most famous plumber 
 ever, too. Of course he's also one of the few plumbers out there that hops on Goombas.
  
  Whatever. Most people know this already. They may also know Super Mario Bros. was one of the best 
 console games of its decade, and remains one of the most revolutionary.
  
  But can Mario work in 3-D?
  
  Most certainly.
  
  The story isn't exactly deep, but it fits 
 a game like Mario. Peach is captured by Bowser in her castle, so you go in, collect Power Stars, 
 and save her. By now, this is old hat for Mario, even if you first played the N64 version. But 
 it's well worth the purchase for such a huge, fun 3-D world, surprisingly good controls (except 
 for the camera issues in the DS version) , and 120 Power Stars in the original, with 150 in the 
 DS version.
  
  First is gameplay. In the DS version you'll be playing as Yoshi first, then him and Mario, then 
 Luigi will join your team, followed by Wario. Each brings something special to the table, which 
 often are crucial powers to get the newly added Stars. It doesn't take away from the experience, 
 either. This unique idea in fact enhances the Mario-only game of 1996.
  
  You can jump (duh) , you can punch and kick (unless you're Yoshi, who... tongues...) , you can squash 
 people beneath your ass, literally, and even wall jump as Mario, run on water as Luigi, and have 
 even more destructive power as Wario.
  
  80 Power Stars are still enough to go and beat up Bowser, but the game is fun and challenging enough 
 to make you wanna stay for all 150. The minigames, which actually involve the touch screen, aren't 
 a waste of time either. They're fun, and well worth your time (except maybe the flower pedal pulling 
 one... LAME!)
  
  But, again speaking of gameplay, controls aren't always up to par. While switching out characters 
 involves going to a room in the castle, which is fine, moving the camera is sure to tick you off, 
 because frankly, despite having two ways to do it, it's not as good as it was on N64. Another issue 
 you might have is that the touch screen really isn't used in the main game- although this is a 
 remake. But since it was a launch title, you'd think they would determinedly incorporate it- for 
 good or ill.
  
  The graphics, however, are wonderful. It's good to see even our handhelds now can outdo the consoles 
 of the 90's, because the DS version is far superior in those terms. Take Mario's nose, for example. 
 It's no longer triangular on the sides! There are more colors, apparently, because Mario looks 
 less pale now, and it's a bit less blocky all the way through. Good work.
  
  The score is still quite impressive. While it would've been a bit lame on, say, the Gamecube, it's 
 dynamic and powerful for a handheld game. Plus, chunks of voiceover sound good, and don't detract 
 at all.
  
  Just like the original, the difficulty of the game goes up and down at random intervals, which 
 could bother you. For example, the later levels in the first portrait are far harder than the early 
 ones in the second portrait, and so on. But then, it's never too big a deal.
  
  They found a way to switch characters halfway through a level, which is nice, but I guess could've 
 been executed better. Still, you won't notice, because this is still one of the best Mario games 
 ever, and you certainly shouldn't miss it. If you think Mario is for kids, then wait till you jump 
 on a brand new, 3-D Goomba first. Innovation makes up for any childishness there is.
  
  And Mario will live on forever. He's like fricking Rambo! Or Jesus! Or something like that. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TrinityCat
Rating: 8
Date: Jan 9, 2009 7:58 pm PT
Review:  Nintendo did a great job at making a re-boot of the original Super Mario 64, but still, the original 
 is better for a few reasons....
  
  Story: Great. The same courses are back, a few changes were made, new levels, you can play this 
 time as Yoshi, Mario, Luigi and Wario. (Note: Each character has their own abilities and weakness.)
 
  
  This time, you have to collect over 150 stars, which makes the game a bit longer than the original.
 
  
  Gameplay: Disappointing and frustrating at times. Using the touch screen to run is simply bad. 
 Control stick to walk/run is a bit better than the touch screen but it is still a bit unbalanced 
 and frustrating at times. Other than that, it's OK.
  
  Graphics: Great. I was very surprised when i saw this version's graphics. It looks bright, very 
 colorful, and improved. Noticeable glitches are shown at times but luckily, a few times only.
 
  
  Multiplayer is OK. A bit boring but entertainable when playing with a friend.
  
  The "Rec Room" is where the Mini-Games are. There are 4 different sections: Mario's Mini-Games, 
 Yoshi's Mini-Games, Luigi's Mini Games and Wario's Mini-Games. Surprisingly, there pretty fun to 
 play when your bored.
  
  Overall, this game will bring good memories to those who used to own and play the original and 
 to those who didn't had the chance to play the original, get this, you will love it, despite the 
 so-so gameplay. But still, you'll have a great time playing this.
  
  PS. You can get the original Super Mario 64 (N64) on the Nintendo Wii's Wii Shop Channel for 1,000 
 Wii points ($10) . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Beckenor
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jan 4, 2009 4:40 pm PT
Review:  Positive: Good Graphics; Fluid Game play; Interesting Story Elements. 
  
  Negative: Repetitive Music; Frustrating Physics Engine; Camera Issues. 
  
  A reboot of one 
 of the premiere titles for the N64, Super Mario 64 DS offers up a new (sorta) adventure on the 
 Nintendo DS.
  Veterans of the original game will notice one major difference right from the start. You start 
 play as Yoshi, and throughout the game you will unlock Mario, Luigi, and Wario to play as.
  The premise of the game is when Princess Peach invites Mario, Luigi, and Wario to her birthday 
 party at her castle. When Yoshi-who was sleeping on the roof of the castle-awakes, the cameraman 
 informs him that everyone inside the castle has disappeared, including Peach. Upon venturing inside, 
 you discover that you must recover Stars by jumping into pictures and accomplishing goals in their 
 separate worlds.
  Their are 120 stars once you complete every world, and 30 more secret stars. The amount of extra 
 stars to collect offers excellent replay value, and it's near impossible to collect all 150. 
 
  The game has an excellent physics engine, but it's not perfect. Many times I have watched to my 
 dismay as my character lands safely on a platform, only to impossibly slide off the side to my 
 doom. Also, the game has some frustrating camera issues, but they are usually remedied by pressing 
 the left shoulder button, which centers the camera behind your back, but still they aren't that 
 big of a deal.
  For positive things, the games textures are still some of the best on the DS, and the characters 
 animations are fluid and uninterrupted, without slowdown. 
  The story is almost non-existent, but when sub-characters do talk, it is usually comical.
  The 
 game play moves smoothly from one area to the next, and their is no part where you feel a goal 
 is completely out of your reach.
  The music features the familiar Mario themes, which are a little too familiar (read: repetitive) , 
 and start tiring you out after the first couple stars in a single area.
  Overall, Super Mario 64 DS is a solid addition to the DS game lineup, and is one of the best 3-D 
 platformers available on the system. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: supergamer85
Rating: 8.5
Date: Dec 18, 2008 1:12 am PT
Review:  It was a Great Idea and I'm happy nintendo thought of it but this still doesen't beat the original.
 
  
  Graphics
  
  (For DS This games graphics are Awesome)
  
  Now i want to point this out this is on DS and you know how attempting to make 3D games look on 
 DS yes Pixels moving if you don't know what I mean Do not move for a second and look at the background 
 and everything else around you but Still this happens for ALL 3D DS games, so there is nothing wrong 
 about it. So graphics get a:
  
  9.0/10
  
  Story
  
  For those of you who have played SuperMario 64 don't think this game is gonna have the same story 
 line it is pretty Different. Anyways the story starts like this Mario invites his friends to Peach's 
 Castle to Party and so Mario invites Wario, And luigi and it shows a Cutscean of them 3 jumping! 
 out of a Pipe! and Running to the castle door and opening it! Then the camera Zooms in on Yoshi, Sleeping 
 on top of the castle roof after that, the screen blacks out. Then Magicaly Yoshi is on the ground, and 
 lakitu is telling him to wake up, when yoshi finally wakes up Lakitu tells him that mario hasen't 
 returned yet. and you play as yoshi and have to save Mario, Luigi, And, Wario and you get to play with 
 Mario and others to! BUT! thats not all surprisingly, Peach is also Kidnapped oww how mario will 
 feel when he hears that!
  
  Story:9.0/10
  
  Graphics
  
  So, why didn't I give this a 10? well here's why: The MOSTimportant part of a game is GAMEPLAY if 
 it has awesome graphics, Awesome story, but the gameplay is Bad, You Might as well thrwo that game 
 away! so here's my rating on graphics:
  
  Now your playing as yoshi so, your gonna have to learn the controls but! as soon as you move that 
 Control Pad up, your gonna notice something, Your walking! Not Running! Yes This little thing im 
 ranting about it really what didn't make this a 10 or 9.0 so your gonna have to hold the Y button 
 to run right? Right so now your running your thinking this game is pretty fun now but after playing 
 the game for about 4 minutes your gonna be forced to catch a bunny and you gotta DIVE FOR IT This 
 is complicated so remember in SuperMario 64 that you just had so press A Z And B At the same time? 
 Well, That changed, Now, Because of the Holding a button to run, you Now have to PRESS The Run button! 
 PRESS The Jump button! PRESS The Punch Button! And Move the control Pad! That Sounds easy to you? 
 Well trust me. It isn't easy after doing it for about 4 times your Fingers WILL get tired But everything 
 else Besides the gameplay is Great so for gameplay I give it A
  
  7.5/10
  
  Overall
  
  Overall this games Great It would take you about 15 Hours to get The needed 70 Power Stars 
 to fight the final Boss But if you really wanted to get ALL 150 PowerStars, it would take you about 
 30 hours. Is This game recomanded? Definatly. This Game is a Great Update of the classic Super Mario 
 64 If you Never Played the original Super Mario 64 This Game is Recomanded For you And Even if 
 you have played! This Game is still Great and it features Unlockable containt and other things 
 such as Dosends of mini games, Unlockable Characters, And New Bonus Areas! This Game Is Recomanded 
 for buying.
  
  Story: 9.0
  Graphics:9.0
  Gameplay:7.5
  
  All together is..
  8.5! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MarioLinkGenofa
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 15, 2008 12:30 pm PT
Review:  This was the first DS game for me. In all honesty It's still my most played DS game. i've played 
 it over again and again. heck Yesterday i played it and got 30 stars straight. Of course I did 
 everything. But how to recommend this game... oh right if you don't have it youobviously didn't 
 get a DS game at the start cuz at the beggining this was the best DS game and it still is.
  
  Graphics-great update, while still keeping the same look the original had. 10/10
  
  Gameplay- 
 Mario is not alone this time. Not only does mario share his powers (metal and invisible) with his 
 other brothers, they all have some abiblity that makes them only ones capible of getting a star 
 or making it easier. 10/10
  
  Camera- The camera can easily be moved with R or the Ds sreen and it works just as well as the 
 original
  
  Controls- Do I need to say anything!!!
  
  Overall- I laugh at you if you don't have this masterpeice. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: udunwanan0
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 23, 2008 7:51 pm PT
Review:  Ahhhhhhh....... the good old Super Mario 3-D Platformer game. Even till this day its a butt-kicking 
 game. On the DS version the graphics and sounds improve a lot which enhances this game to its tip 
 top potential. The controls are a litttle shaky because its D-pad instead of a joystick now. Being 
 able to use Wario, Yoshi, and Luigi was amazing, it made the game a whole lot easier because of 
 their better jumping abilities but its because of these characters that made the game seem a little 
 new and fresh. Theres only 30 more stars which doesn't give you a whole lot of new content. Playing 
 this game brings you back to the N64 days, showing how Nintendo is a master at making adventure 
 games (Its a shame that they dont do that much anymore) . All and All Super Mario 64 DS is 90% the 
 same as the old Super Mario 64. Anyone who played the first one would probably enjoy this refresher. 
 If any Nintendo or Mario fan somehow missed the original than god is giving you another chance 
 to fill in that flaw within your gaming life. Bottom line Great Game, worth the time and money. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: brawnyseany
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 13, 2008 6:56 pm PT
Review:  I think this is a great game because it is highly addictive, it rarely freezes (unless using AR) , and 
 there is a lot of rumors about Waluigi which are fun to believe. AND I would HIGHLY recommend this 
 game and maybe even Super Mario Galaxy! plus there some great glitches like the "multiple hat glitch", 
 the "cannon glitch", and the fat penguin glitch. these are all GREAT glitches but I highly recommend 
 not doing them TOO much because either they make your game freeze, or they make your game go slower. And 
 that's my story of super Mario 64 DS. and like I said before, get super Mario galaxy. even though 
 i haven't played the game yet it seems very very very very very very very awesome!!!!!!!!!! my friends 
 have played it and they say some dos and some do not. one of the do is that you should always keep 
 trying. and a don't is that you should never ever ever ever ever ever ever EVER quit without saving:) 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sonicrocks96
Rating: 9.5
Date: Apr 4, 2009 6:03 pm PT
Review:  The very first time I played this game was when I borrowed it from my 
  neighbor, and I loved it! i could play it all day! 
  
  Super Mario 64 DS is kinda like the 
 classic, but this time Peach gives Mario a note to come to the castle because she's baked a cake 
 for him. In the classic game Mario comes out of the pipe and BOOM! You play as Mario right
  then! But on the DS version Mario comes out with Luigi and Wario. And they all go to the castle. 
 But when Yoshi wakes up, Lakitu tells Yoshi that Mario went to the castle, but he hasn't returned. 
 So in the beginning of the game you play as Yoshi.
  
  What's so super good about this game is that Sm64ds has the best DS graphics and visuals. The game 
 play might not be as good as the classic game, but still pretty good. Also the mini games are always 
 fun to play. And if you're in a course
  like Whomp's Fortress, where the star is at the tip top of the course and you're at the bottom, 
 you can hop into the cannon to blast off to the tip top of the course for like a shortcut. So the 
 cannons are great to use.
  
  What Isn't all that great about the game is that the sound is poor, there are two many bottomless 
 pits in the corses, and if you're in the basement, it takes forever to get to the third floor.
 
  
  Anyway, it's a great DS game to play, especially with the Action Replay. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: thebuckeye08
Rating: 7.5
Date: Dec 13, 2008 6:31 am PT
Review:  Got it and i didnt like the camera angle what so ever (it takes awhile before you get use to it) The 
 game in general is quit confusing and can get you very fustraded, where to i go how do i get this 
 star, where is this star. MADNESS I SAY MADNESS!!!!!!!!!!!!!
  7.5
  NOT 10? WHY?
  BAD CAMERA, GOOD CAMERA EASILY an 8.0 a great game or eaven an 8.5
  then this game gets confusing 
 and hard, well i guess thats mario 64 for you. and + i wouldnt even call this a mario game, but 
 it does have the characters
  if it was easily more understandable, and i understood where to get the star id be stuck on my 
 DS all day, if it did that easily an 9.5
  not 10? 10 means its perfect, and no game is perfect,
  and besides you need 2 game cards for 
 a good multiplayer experience.
  
  The good, all classic characters fun mimi games, mostly the same as super mario ds though, and 
 well its a mario game
  All in all this a good game and a should have, not a must have. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: drsaamah
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 7, 2008 2:47 pm PT
Review:  Let's get the bad out of the way first...
  Like the original for the N64, the camera control in this game will drive you crazy after you've 
 played for long enough. And you will think to yourself, "I've dealt with this before, I can do 
 it again." And you will be able to do it again, but with more difficulty this time around. Why? 
 Because in addition to the poor camera control, the control implementation on the DS does not even 
 compare to that of the original.
  D-pad   Enough said.
  Now... the good!
  There are enough great additions to this game to justify a Mario fan (or any platform lover) who 
 has played the original to want to play this game. For someone who has never played the original, 
 this game is a MUST.
  For starters, the game looks GREAT. I almost want to say better, but that may largely be due to 
 playing the game on a 3-inch screen as opposed to a television. Nonetheless, rarely, if ever, will 
 the aesthetics of this game ruin the experience of running around grabbing stars.
  The mini-games are a fun little addition, but they will get tiresome in single-player mode after 
 some time. This addition is much more enjoyable if you have a friend with a DS to enjoy these games 
 with. Thankfully, these mini-games can be played using Download Play, so you don't need a friend 
 who also dropped the money on the game.
  The single-player additions to this came definitely surprised me. I didn't expect myself to be 
 thinking as much as I did regarding a remake of a game I have beaten numerous times. Since you 
 start the game as Yoshi this time around, you have to unlock the other characters by beating new 
 bosses in new levels! The boss battles are fairly entertaining, and many (all?) of these bosses 
 re-appear in the missions for Mario Kart DS.
  Since each character has different abilities, and each character obtains unique powers from the 
 "?" boxes, you get a little bit of a puzzle aspect to this game, in the sense that you won't know 
 how to get a particular star until you consider switching out characters and coming back to the 
 level. Many times a level will provide you with a characters hat, that will change you to that 
 character on the fly in order to complete a given task.
  The game has about 20 extra stars that weren't in the original, so it should keep you busy for 
 some time. I think this is definitely worth picking up, especially if you never played the original. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Gamelova08
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 2, 2008 11:22 am PT
Review:  This game is really great, in fact, there's alot of stuff in this one that you wont be able to 
 do in the N64 version, like playing as yoshi, wario, or Luigi. But if you've already played this 
 then there wont be alot then that.
  
  What happens in the beginning is instead of playing as mario, you play as yoshi and start earning 
 stars to unlock your mustached buddys, and it's him who shines.
  The graphics are smooth and improved, it looks great and the trees aren't as fuzzy. one of the 
 new add on to this game though, are minigames. The minigames are addictive and pretty fun, though 
 sometimes it gets frustrating on some levels. There's also a mix on new super mario bros. cuz you 
 get to turn giant and wall jump. This is is fun but I wouldn't suggest purchase if you're already 
 familiar with the game.
  
  score: 8.5 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Veixsinx
Rating: 5
Date: Oct 16, 2008 5:41 pm PT
Review:  This game is terrible. The thing that annoyed me the most was the sluggish movement. If you tried 
 to jump on a small platform, Mario will take a couple extra steps and result in death. The graphics 
 are ok for a ds game i guess, and it has a great original soundtrack. But that does not save it 
 from being a broken horrible excuse for a mario game.
  
  The good: Great original soundtrack, tons of stars to collect (which are hard as hell) and new 
 playable charecters!
  
  The bad: Horrible movement, ok graphics, and just downright boring.
  
  If your looking for 
 a great mario platform game, i recomend galaxy for wii.
  
  PEACE OUT YALL
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  lalala kdgkj fghklf fjgklsfj fhg pjkf fdjgl; dfj fkgj; l kfjglk fgljk d fkgj ;l fdkgj l hdgj ;ld 
 fjglkf j kfjdg l; kgjlfd jklf; jkghl; j dgjl; jgklh; j dkjgld gfkjg l; ds flkj glk dfgj lk; fg jklj; d 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GamerTron0
Rating: 6.5
Date: Oct 14, 2008 8:30 pm PT
Review:  It was never really explained if Super Mario 64 DS is a DS port or a remake, but remake or not 
 it is a good platformer with flaws. The story in Super Mario 64 DS (i'll use SM64DS insted) is 
 basic, boring, and the same. Princess peach is kidnapped by bowswer again.
  But you dont buy games for story you buy them for gameplay and SM64DS will offer you alot. There 
 has been some changes form the N64 game, like new worlds, new playable charecters like, yoshi, 
 wario, and luigi.
  The gameplay is Mario games are your platforming and attaking ememies and collecting stars in different 
 worlds. The controls are 1 small step away form bad, there not that good. And sadly thats all to 
 say about them. Graphics are amazing for a DS game, there also improved from the orignal. So the 
 graphics are good, gameplay is fun, controls are flawed but the camera is completely horrible! 
 This camera is your worst ememy in the game, not the bowswer the camera! It moves to bad positions 
 and sometimes it will move in a spot where you cant see anything at all! worst yet when the controls 
 are bad and camera is bad you will want to destroy the game. But if you like mario games have a 
 DS you might find this game to be enjoyable.
  
  Graphics: 9.7
  Gameplay: 9.1
  Controls: 6.2
  Story: 4.6
  Re-Play Value: 7.5
  Over All: 6.5 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Flightofdragon
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 4, 2008 3:39 pm PT
Review:  This game always pulls me back. Lots of times I get frustrated from it cause I can't figure out 
 what to do but I always return to the game. There are plenty of decent puzzles here and you'll 
 most likely need an FAQ to help you figure out what the heck to do! Not that this game is insanely 
 hard, but if you just figure out WHAT to do, it's just a snap DOING it. There's plenty of play 
 time and material to be played here with 150 stars and 5-20 min. on each star... that's a LONG 
 time. My playing time above was just a guess cause I'm too lazy to think. The only complaint is 
 that the 3 Bowser battles were EASY. All you had to do was wait for him to spew fireballs then 
 sneak up on him from behind and throw him into a spiked ball... and it only took ONE HIT. Granted 
 the final battle took three hits I mean... at least let the guy survive longer. Anyway, this game 
 is very good with the courses being VERY creative. I would suggest this game any day but maybe 
 (if you are interested in buying this game) look at other players reviews because there are differing 
 opinions. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: J-man45
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 27, 2008 12:10 pm PT
Review:  The good old days of the N64 will never be forgotten. Revolutionary games and stunning graphics 
 for its time, games like Super Mario 64 came to be. A timeless classic and considered by some the 
 greatest of all time. Then in 2004, 8 years later, Super Mario 64 DS came to be. New characters, 
 gameplay, and flashy graphics that almost match the original version make this game a must have 
 for all DS owners.
  
  Super Mario 64 DS has a total of 150 total stars to collect. The original game only having 120. 
 These 30 extra stars can be found hidden around the castle. The other 120 are found in 15 different 
 courses, each one having 8 stars to collect.
  
  You start the game as Yoshi. After going through the first few levels you eventually can unlock 
 Mario. In levels with Yoshi, by putting on Mario's cap you transform into Mario. You still keep 
 Yoshi's voice, but you now have Mario's abilities. As you go through the game, unlocking Luigi 
 and Wario, Yoshi and whichever character you are using, can put on a cap and become that character.
 
  
  You can go into levels as a pre-selected character however. Each character has their own room where 
 you can switch out with the character you have and the one you want. Each one of the four different 
 characters has their own special abilities:
  
  Yoshi can swallow enemies whole, and can do a flutter kick for some added jump height.
  
  Mario 
 is the only character that can wall jump.
  
  Luigi can jump higher than anyone else, swim faster, and walk/run on water for a short period of 
 time.
  
  Wario is fat and slow, but has a powerful punch. Big black blocks on certain courses can only be 
 broken by Wario.
  
  Each character also has their own power up. Once you find the secret switch in the castle, red 
 "?" boxes on levels become usable. 
  
  The graphics in the game are remarkable. Almost as good as the original 64 version. Sounds are 
 also good in the game, though some aren't that great. Also, some textures can be very fuzzy when 
 viewed up close. For the most part, though, the graphics are superb.
  
  There are three different control methods on SM64DS. Touch Mode, Standard Mode, and a combination 
 of the two. Standard mode probably works best out of the three, but that's not to say the other 
 two are bad.
  
  Now the most infamous part of all Super Mario games: The camera. Most of the time the camera works 
 good. by pressing the L button in standard mode most of the time you can center the camera behind 
 you. Sometimes, the camera can get annoying. In small confined areas, with many walls and objects 
 around, it can be hard to see what you are doing.
  
  Overall Mario 64 DS is one of the best games on the system, and you are crazy stupid if you are 
 a DS owner and don't have this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DesertClawX2X
Rating: 8.5
Date: Sep 20, 2008 6:10 pm PT
Review:  Face it: Mario has influenced almost every platformer within the last two or so decades. His well-crafted 
 and finely-tuned romps have served as the inspiration for many similar adventures, good (the early 
 Sonic games) and bad (Bubsy anyone?) . And few have been ever been as influential as 1996's Super 
 Mario 64. Eight years later, an enhanced remake graced the DS. But should you fans go for it?
 
  
  The story is (roughly) 85% faithful to the original. Mario receives an invitation to Peach's castle 
 to have cake. This time, however, Mario's private party is crashed by Luigi and Wario. Upon entrance, 
 the three are captured, and it's now up to Yoshi to rescue his comrades, as well as aid Mario in 
 his quest to reclaim Peach's Castle (and its inhabitants) from Bowser's clutches.
  
  As you can probably guess, Mario isn't the only hombre playable this time around. You're also able 
 to play as Yoshi, Luigi, and Wario. While the beginning of the game forces you to play as Yoshi 
 until you collect enough stars to free Mario, everyone's favorite green dino injects some new blood 
 into the game: Yoshu retains all of his abilities from Yoshi's Island (i. e. the Flutter Kick and 
 the nifty power to swallow his enemies and reform them into projectile eggs) as well as receiving 
 a power-up that allows him to breathe fire. Unfortunately, since Yoshi is now playable, you won't 
 be rewarded by him on top of the castle upon collecting all of the Power Stars.
  
  Sadly, I can't same the same for Luigi and Wario. With a few exceptions (such as Luigi being able 
 to run on water for a few seconds) , both are only vaguely dissimilar from Mario. In fact, both 
 the Metal and Vanish Caps have now been given to Wario and Luigi, leaving Mario with only the trusty 
 'ol Wing Cap and a new power-up that causes Mario to puff up like a balloon and ascend. While it's 
 only necessary to rescue Mario in order to beat the game (he's the only one who can ascend the 
 stairs to the final Bowser level) , you'll need to subsequently find Luigi and Wario if you want 
 to collect all of the Power Stars, which have increased to whopping total of 150.
  
  You'll also notice that there are a much larger amount of bunnies scurrying around the castle grounds 
 this time around. Unlike in the original, these bunnies relinquish minigames instead on stars... 
 and a whole lot of 'em. Some of these completely miss the mark, but quite a few are nice distractions 
 from the main game. 
  
  The final new addition is a wireless multiplayer mode, but it's half-baked and not that fun.
 
  
  An obvious detracting factor is the lack of an analog stick. Both the d-pad and touch screen are 
 poor substitutions for the precision of a joystick, especially when the later levels involve multiple 
 chasms that you must cross with the utmost of timing.
  
  While the core gameplay remains the same, you'll notice that things are a lot easier around this 
 time. Being able to switch between four characters with different attributes does make some of 
 Mario's greatest challenges from the original seem like child's play. For example, whenever Luigi 
 performs a backflip, he then spins around in the air like a helicopter, slowing his descent. And 
 when I say slow, I mean slooooooooooow. In many levels, the addition or removal or certain platforms 
 also eases the challenge. Finally, you can find many of your objective (i. e. red coins, stars, 
 etc.) by simply looking down onto the touch screen.
  
  The music is superb and just as enjoyable as it was back in '96. Whether it's the jubilant and 
 peppy theme of Bob-omb Battlefield, the cool but chilling tune of the linear Bowser levels, and 
 remixes of older tunes, the game's soundtrack won't fail to keep you enthralled.
  
  With the exception of Luigi and Wario (and to a lesser degree, Yoshi) , the voice acting is identical 
 to the original. I have no problem with that, mainly due to nostalgia. Mario 64 was the first (mainstream) 
 Mario to give the pasta-eating, shroom-grabbing, Gomba-stomping plumber (among others) his iconic 
 voice, so why change it?
  
  The graphics are on par with that on the original, but everything seems to be more polished and 
 cleaned up. Mario's nose (while still huge in comparison to normal people) is no longer gargantuan 
 and his face more accurately resembles his depiction in more recent appearances. The same general 
 statement can be made about Yoshi. Finally, you might feel relief to know that Bowser no longer 
 looks... weird (if you've played the original, you should know exactly what I'm talking about) .
 
  
  Even though the game doesn't feel as fresh and some of the new features are throwaway, 64 DS still 
 remains a strong entry in the series. Whether or not this is your first exposure to Super Mario 
 64 or a returning visit is irrelevant; your time with this game won't disappoint. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Aires457
Rating: 9.5
Date: Sep 11, 2008 5:00 pm PT
Review:  Super Mario 64 for the DS is extremely fun for a remake of a game. Basically it's the same game 
 as the game for the Nintendo 64 with a few changes. The biggest change is that in the original 
 version you can only play as Mario but in the new DS version you start as yoshi and unlock Mario, 
 luigi, and wario in later levels. If you haven't played the first original game I'll tell you how 
 the game works. So basically bowser went to peach's castle and kidnapped her so you (and the other 
 characters) have to save her but you need stars to unlock doors to get to where he is holding her 
 so you have to go into levels and complete mission to get more stars. Missions can vary from races 
 to boss battles to saving people. If you're a fan of Mario this game is a no brainier. But if you 
 haven't play any Mario games I wouldn't recommend this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cat12347
Rating: 10
Date: Sep 10, 2008 5:48 pm PT
Review:  I L-O-V-E THIS GAME!!! It puts 3 of my favorite types of games together: Mario, Adventure and Strategy 
 games.
  
  Overall AWESOME game!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!
  
  You HAVE to buy it or at least rent or borrow it!
  
  Super Mario 64 DS R-O-C-K-S!!!!! Super 
 Mario 64 DS R-O-C-K-S!!!!! Super Mario 64 DS R-O-C-K-S!!!!! Super Mario 64 DS R-O-C-K-S!!!!! Super 
 Mario 64 DS R-O-C-K-S!!!!! Super Mario 64 DS R-O-C-K-S!!!!! Super Mario 64 DS R-O-C-K-S!!!!! Super 
 Mario 64 DS R-O-C-K-S!!!!! Super Mario 64 DS R-O-C-K-S!!!!! Super Mario 64 DS R-O-C-K-S!!!!! Super 
 Mario 64 DS R-O-C-K-S!!!!! Super Mario 64 DS R-O-C-K-S!!!!! Super Mario 64 DS R-O-C-K-S!!!!! Super 
 Mario 64 DS R-O-C-K-S!!!!! Super Mario 64 DS R-O-C-K-S! Super Mario 64 DS R-O-C-K-S!!!!! Super 
 Mario 64 DS R-O-C-K-S!!!!! Super Mario 64 DS R-O-C-K-S!!!!! Super Mario 64 DS R-O-C-K-S!!!!!
  
  Nintendo, PLEASE PLEASE P-L-E-A-S-E make another remake of this game!!!!!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sk8more67
Rating: 9.5
Date: Sep 16, 2008 7:22 am PT
Review:  When you think about one of the most revolutionary Nintendo 64 games, then one of the games should 
 be Super Mario 64. But after the years, it's gotten a little bit old, and it's not like I don't appreciate 
 classics (I LOVE classics) , but an improvement would've been nice, and that's exactly what Nintendo 
 was thinking. They needed an improvement on a classic, and that's what we got! With several stars, and 
 all the original challenges, new characters, altered storyline, cake, and more, this game kicks ass! You 
 start out watching a cutscene (sweet) . What happens is Mario, Wario, and (Mario's sidekick) Luigi appear 
 out of green tubes, and start walking. But, then suddenly, they get kidnapped by things (yeah, I can't 
 remember, and I'm to lazy to check it out right now) and locked up! But wait! There's Yoshi (of course) taking 
 a nap! For once, him being lazy (along with Wario) is a good thing, since Yoshi didn't get kidnapped 
 as he napped on the freiken' castle. In order to rescue Mario, you need to get 8 stars, then use them 
 on the door in the Minigames room. After getting in that room, you need to hop in the Mario picture, and 
 kill Goomboss. After killing the stupid and equally annoying Goombass, you then use the key to save 
 Mario from his room, and to use him. I won't tell you anymore characters because it kinda takes the 
 fun outta the game, y'know? This game has a LOT of stars to collect. You want to know how many? It's 
 150 stars in all!!!! Wow! That's gonna take some time. It does take a long time to beat levels. Oh 
 well, it's definitly worth it in the end. I do like the altered storyline, because it's cool to get 
 everything that I payed for. I hope that you buy this game, because it's very enjoyable, and can hold 
 your attention for a long time.
  
  -Sk8more67 
::::::

::::::
UserName: chrizmol
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 31, 2008 10:59 pm PT
Review:  If your looking for quality games on your DS than Super Mario 64 DS is what your looking for. This 
 is a remake of a classic platformer 10 years ago and right now its still is a classic.
  
  Story: In this game the Princess gets captured by King Bowser like any other Mario game but you 
 should not let the story hinder the games quality.
  
  Sound: The game features slightly remixed songs from the original game but does not overdoe it. 
 The music in the game are well done and really copies the original game but manages to improve 
 it.
  
  Graphics: Super Mario 64 DS, in my opinion is a great DS launch game because of the graphics. When 
 you first look at the game you will realy get attracted by the graphics!!! because it really stretches 
 the DS's muscles at last, which proves that the DS is not just a GBA with 2 screens. It may look 
 slightly pixelated than its N64 counterpart but this is due to the lack of texture filter.
  
  Gameplay: SM64DS plays like the original version where you run, jump and swim to get stars
 
  Lifespan: You will definietely play this game not for months but for years to come. The game could 
 be completed by a minimum number of stars but you could always collect the entire 150 stars. The 
 overall gameplay and graphics is just astonishing!! It could have been a disaster to plan and execute 
 this game
  
  Overall: Super Mario 64 DS is a neat piece of software that should be beside any Nintendo collection. It 
 is a rebirth of a game that changed the 3D genre 10 years ago that is definitely worth buying if 
 you dont have an N64. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: silverblur007
Rating: 8
Date: Aug 31, 2008 5:18 pm PT
Review:  
  This game is one of the best 3D platforming games, and the fact that it's on a ds makes even more 
 interesting. Instead of starting out the game as Mario, like in the Nintendo 64 original, you will 
 start out as Yoshi and have to rescue Mario, Luigi, and Wario during the gameplay, and each character 
 has an ability that will help you in the gameplay. There is an interesting feature called flower 
 power that will do something to your character when you activate the flower power switch in a hidden 
 location. The game also includes a variety of touch screen minigames, but they're not all that 
 great and provide nothing relevant to the storyline itself. If you're looking for a fresh new Mario 
 game for ds, try New Super Mario Bros. first. If that's not good enough, you might want to try 
 out this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Devil_Vergil
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 30, 2008 6:08 pm PT
Review:  From the start you feel a certain sense of nostalgia. from the start screen there are a few things 
 you can do right off the bat. You can either do one of the following;
  
  VS: A fun online mode that allows you to play other Mario fans around the world. . . .or around 
 the corner. 
  
  Adventure: Go ahead. . . . start it up I know ya wanna. . . . its addicting trust me.
  
  Rec 
 Room: A room thats run by the Toads of the castle . . . sign up for a game to play all by yourself 
 but be careful be stradegic about it!
  
  The title screen is even interactive! Tap on Mario or Yoshi to reveal you can alter their face 
 to make funny and rather entertaining shapes. You can also suck up the artwork into the trash and 
 create your own masterpeice of silliness.
  
  Right from the start this game is a definate time consumer you can mess around with the menu for 
 hours at a time and still get a kick out of it.
  
  but enough about the main menu lets go to the acual modes!
  
  VS: As I said before VS mode 
 is a room in which you assume the role of Yoshi and you wait for an opponent to link up with you, 
 choose your level and then your off! there are four (4) stages in which you may choose from.
  
  Castle Grounds: Outside of Todstool Castle where a chain chomp runs recklesslly around watch 
 out!!!
  
  Sunshine Isles: Relax. . . unwind. . . .and beat your opponent!
  
  Princess' Secret Slide: Yupp its back and in multiplayer mode now!!!! It makes you wonder though. 
 . . . why does a princess need such a crazy slide?
  
  Battle Fort: A heavilly fortified arena in which black cannon balls roll without mercy into anyone 
 who may be unfortunate to find themselves in their path.
  
  The basic goal in all multiplayer games is this, Gain more stars then your opponent! There is a 
 total of 5 stars and each stars location will be revealed after the old star has been captured. 
 There are things around the map that can help you in your quest to be the biggest star collector 
 at the end of 30 seconds. . . thats right folks 30 seconds to make sure you have more stars then 
 your rival. The things that can aid you are caps. . . .but these caps take the form of some of 
 Nintendo's BIGGEST stars! these stars include
  
  Luigi
  
  Mario
  
  Wario
  
  each character has their own stregths and weakness and I will explain those later when I get to 
 adventure.
  
  But hey not that popular around friends? Or just dont have a good wi fi connection? fear not because 
 VS allows you to practice alone! This allows you to make sure your skills are the best of the best 
 to make sure your not stuck in the sand and no the best plans of attack. Sadlly though the game 
 does not offer you to face the CPU which would have made a great addition to this already wonderful 
 mode.
  
  All and all I give VS mode: 9.5
  
  Adevnture: Now for the die hard Mario fans you will see some changes in storyline plot. For starters 
 the game starts off with all 3 characters jumping out of warp pipes and walking up to the castle. 
 Yoshi is left slumbering in the corner. A few hours pass and your camera man wakes you up and tells 
 you that your friends have been captured along with the princess!!! Double overtime for Yoshi but 
 dont worry hes up for the adventure! Hes armed with a new set of moves (much similiar to that of 
 Yoshi Story) he has a hover jump and can use his tounge to grab distant objects like coins and 
 even enemies. After swallowing an enemy whole you can then lay an egg (ahh good ol' scrambled eggs) 
 you can also swallow up small boxes to make. . . . square eggs? Yes square eggs. These eggs can 
 be used to throw at your enemies and harm them. . . .with yoshi yolk. Yoshi also picks up traits 
 from Mario like the triple jump and the but pound. Fans will be pleased to see that all the levels 
 are the same starting out with Bomb - omb mountain but still wheres Mario? Thats the side quest 
 finding each of the heros in the game are a difficult task in itself after when you unlock a new 
 character (or pick up a cap of their color) you gain new abilities here is the list of each character's 
 abilities
  
  Yoshi: As I stated before Yoshi has a very. . . . unique control scheme
  
  Speed: III
  Power: ?
  Jump: III
  
  Mario: Mario is back and he is standard!!! I personally 
 like to use Mario unless if the level completelly requires the use of another character. 
  
  Speed: III
  Power: III
  Jump: III
  
  Luigi: Luigi is Mario's younger more. . . . .slender 
 brother and it shows Juigi is overall a fast character making his jumps masterful
  
  Speed: IIII
  Power: II
  Jump: IIIII
  
  Wario: Wario is in this?! But. . . . but I thought 
 he was bad?! No way! Wario brings the pain to baddies with a masterful stregth that will make the 
 bullies of "Lethal Lava Land" cry for their mommys
  
  Speed: I
  Power: IIIII
  Jump: II
  
  
  Some "missions" have been toggled to the DS' liking like the new "Silver star 
 missions" you must collect 5 silver stars in order to make appear the real star and get to it with 
 all 5 silver stars in tact on you! There is also the "Switch star" missions simple enough theres 
 a switch you press it. . . star appears ad you need to get to it before the timer reaches 0
  
  All these new missions are fun and exciting see pop up into the old levels.
  
  basiclly 
 we all remember the old missions get the star anyway possible. This may be by deafeting a boss 
 or collecting all 8 red coins. Each level has a ttal of 7 stars with some secret ones hidden throught 
 the course. TO get to some of these stars are long a hard task ut in the end when you hear your 
 character say their happy phrase at the end of the level (after you receive the star) you feel 
 like you really have acomplished something
  
  In the end Adventure is one of epic proportions I give it: a 10 out of 10
  
  Rec Room: The 
 rec room is split up into 4 parts. . . .each part is represented by a character. 
  
  Yoshi: Fun and relaxing games. . . .but can sometimes be extremelly annoying and hard good for 
 all ages
  
  Mario: Recreational games for those who just wanna mess around overall a big barrel of fun
  
 
  Luigi: Some of the harder games that rely on luck rather than skill all having ot do with the 
 luck of the draw. If only Luigi knew how bad Gambling is hurting his rep. . . .
  
  Wario: Extremelly fun and fast pace but overall pleasant and entertaining for hours! Nice job Wario 
 you did a good selection here
  
  Rec games are a good way to get away from saving the Princess from Bowser's clutches and relax, 
 but remember Rec games can only be unlocked if you grab the bunnies that are hoping around the 
 castle like mad rabid bunnies catch them and instead of getting a star you'll get a key these keys 
 automaticlly unlock a new mini game for whoever you caught the rabbit with "Ok boss?"
  
  Rec Rooms are enjoyable when you need a break but can sometimes be more frustrating than the real 
 adventure! I give them a 8 out of 10
  
  Gameplay: Well the follows its roots with basic enemy AI and gameplay physics. My one concern about 
 the game is that utilizing the touch screen in order to rotate the camera around and holding down 
 the B button in order to run is a bit confusing this means you must press a total of 3 buttons 
 in order to long jump! Its not very conveinient but once you play for about 10 hours you'll fit 
 in nice and cozy with it and pretend you never realized there was a problem to begin with
  
  8 out of 10
  
  Graphics: Wow for a DS game the graphics are true to form amazing visuals 
 which look just like the N64 version! I was impressed and quite franklly never let down with the 
 scepticales I was veiwing even some things had been revamped like Bower's apperance which is always 
 a nice little treat to have a new Koopa to kick around.
  
  9 out of 10
  
  Sound: Music is still one of the best in any Mario game from the calm and serenity of Dire Dire 
 Docks to the epic music of Bowser in the Dark World fans will not be disapointed to see that music. 
 . . .has not been touched
  
  10 out of 10
  
  all and all Super Mario 64 DS is a mouthful to say. . . . but certainlly not a fistful to play 
 so go out and purchase this old gem before even this game is ancient because you will be missing 
 out. . . and trust me your DS will love you because of it
  
  I give Super Mario 64 DS for the DS a 9.2 out of 10! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: courageslasher
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 18, 2008 4:09 pm PT
Review:  Though I only bought the game today, it has already grown on me quite a bit. I am a huge fan of 
 Super Mario 64, the origanal version, and I found thhat Super Mario 64 DS is quite the fantastic 
 update of Super Mario 64. However, it does have its small share of flaws. The game controls are 
 slightly, well, out of control. When you turn around, for example, your character turns in a circle 
 before going in the other direction, which is a huge problem on narrower and more intricate courses. 
 The DS D-pad also poses a slight control problem. Unlike the analog stick on the N64, the DS D-pad 
 only allows 8 directions of movememt. However, the use of 4 characters adds a perfect twist on 
 a classic game. The graphics do, however, leave something to be desired of. They are hardly any 
 better than the graphics in the Nintendo 64 version. The touch screen controls are slightly unnecessary 
 and very difficult to master. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TissueShoe
Rating: 8.5
Date: Aug 17, 2008 4:47 pm PT
Review:  Super Mario 64 was a revolutionary platformer, and in 2004 Nintendo hoped to successfully recreate 
 it on their brand new handheld, the DS. And so SM64DS was born. This review is made to simply say 
 how the DS game is different from the N64 game, and to say which I think is better, so here goes
 
  
  One of the main differences in the DS game is the controls. There is a touch screen movement option, 
 but it really doesn't work very well at all. Therefore you are stuck with using a control pad, 
 which is absolutely lousy for 3-D platformers. Add the fact that you have to hold Y to run and 
 you get pretty mediocre controls.
  
  The controls are the main things that hurt SM64DS. The rest of the additions are really great. 
 One of the most drastic differences is also the graphics. They're really nicely done and look a 
 whole lot better than they did on the N64. This was also a great way for Nintendo to showcase the 
 DS' graphical capabilities early on in the system's life, and they did it with much success.
  
  Another change is being able to play as four characters: Mario, Luigi, Wario, and Yoshi. The 
 really weird thing about this is that you actually start the game as Yoshi (???) and you have to 
 rescue Mario at a certain point. Playing as Yoshi is a drag, because he's really no fun to have 
 to use. Mario is your best bet, but after you rescue Luigi and Wario you will sometimes have to 
 go back to a special room in the castle to change between the characters to use their unique abilities 
 to do certain missions. Luigi is pretty fun to play as and Wario is ok.
  
  If you thought the N64 game was big, wait till you hear this: SM64DS has 150 stars, 30 of which 
 were not in the first game! This is a huge upgrade in length and value and is a really nice thing 
 to have.
  
  The last thing I want to talk about is the minigames. As you play, you'll find bunnies around the 
 castle. These bunnies carry keys that will unlock a minigame for you. The minigames are also another 
 way Nintendo decided to showcase the system early on, as they all make fun use of the touch screen 
 and are good for some varied entertainment in between collecting stars.
  
  Overall, SM64DS is a worthwhile remake. Not only does it have 30 more stars, but the visuals are 
 updated, there are minigames, and also four characters to play as. While not everyone will be happy 
 with the changes made to their beloved N64 classic, the DS remake is still a fun game. If you haven't 
 played the N64 game, I recommend you pick this one up. Otherwise, you may or may not want to bother 
 with the game; it just depends on your own tastes. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ghostofluigi
Rating: 9.5
Date: Aug 15, 2008 11:11 pm PT
Review:  This is the first game I got for my DS and I'm proud to say it was! Super Mario 64 DS was great 
 with the mixture of characters, the original gameplay, and great graphics. The characters were so 
 cool, each with thier own unique ability. The gameplay from the original n64 game was the same and 
 I was the thankful that it didn't change. The graphics were just like the N64 original, which were 
 also, not suprisingly, amazing. Mingames were addictive and fun. Storyline was just the same ol'"knight 
 in shinig armor story." like most mario video games. That's probably the only negative thing about 
 it. Other than that, this game was just overwhelming with greatness. The levels were fun and boss 
 battles were even more fun like. My favs were the third bowser and the Ice king when you had to 
 unlock Wario.
  
  To conclude, Super Mario 64 DS is a Gold video game that you will be proud to say it's in your collection.
 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: DavisDUDE333
Rating: 9.5
Date: Aug 13, 2008 8:27 am PT
Review:  INTRO: This is about my tenth review - read with caution.
  
  THE GAME: For a pretty old game, Super Mario 64 DS pulls off some impressive graphics and you'll 
 be playing it straight to the end. Along with some other classics, if you recently got or have 
 a DS, it's a great game for your new Nintendo friend.
  
  STORY: The game starts out with an invitation to Peach's castle for cake. Mario, Luigi, and Wario 
 all apparently love cake, and race into the castle, no ifs, ands, or buts about it. Yoshi is rudely 
 awakened by camera cloud guy Latiki. Yoshi discovers the castle is abandoned by everyone except 
 Toad. The mission - collect all 120 stars and find Mario, Luigi, and Wario along the way. If your 
 having doubts about collecting 120 stars, that's okay. It's really impossible to see yourself getting 
 every star. In reality, you only need a few to face Bowser and rescue Peach. There are plenty of 
 walkthroughs to get every star. And your reward? Plenty of satisfaction.
  
  GAMEPLAY: I'm going to guess there are well over 10 levels in the game. Getting through them is 
 gonna take Yoshi swallowing, some Wario brute strength, Luigi scuttling, Mario wall jumping, and 
 some luck. Your objective isn't always clear, either. Some missions involve boss battles, others 
 collecting eight elusive coins. Finding the stars in each level isn't too hard, but you're going 
 to need to know a little about what your doing, so don't forget your instruction booklet.
  
  CONTROLS: The DS doesn't host a cute analog stick, so Nintendo made do with what's there. Standard 
 control is just that, move with the D-Pad, buttons and R control moves, and center the camera with 
 L. The game gives the option of using the touch screen like an analog stick, so you can tip-toe 
 or shimmy across ledges smoothly. But where the D-Pad lacks in precision, it makes up for in speed. 
 Once you get used to it, you'll just prefer the D-Pad. Bowser's minions are always around, and 
 punching is the way to go. Save the stomping for 2-D. Taking out enemies along the way doesn't 
 require much timing, or skill for that matter. Yoshi can't punch like the Bros, but he can swallow 
 Goombas and take out enemies from afar with eggs. 
  
  THE END: If you whop Bowser at the end and breathe sweet relief as you watch the cutscene, save 
 it. The Toad's will still demand you get all the power stars, and there are minigame rabbits (catch 
 a rabbit, get a game) . So if you speed through Super Mario, there's still more. Sadly, after the 
 stars are found, and minigames beaten, it's just over. 
  
  MULTIPLAYER AND WRAP-UP: You won't need four copies of the same game to play with three DS-owning 
 buddies. However, collecting five stars in four small courses is only a taste of some real multiplayer. 
 Thumbs down here. 
  
  There are lots of "ups" in this game, and not many "downs." Again, Super Mario 64 DS is an instant 
 classic you have to have if you own a DS. And if you can collect 120 stars without cheating, you 
 can call the game "short."
  
  THANKS 4 READING! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ffmotorsports51
Rating: 8.5
Date: Aug 11, 2008 12:16 pm PT
Review:  I got this game back about 3-1/2 years ago. I liked it right off the bat. It remind me of the glory 
 days of N64. The levels in this game are almost the same, except with a couple of tweaks here, 
 and there. Nintendo added more levels to explore, and more stars to collect. In Super Mario 64, 
 there were 120 stars total. In Super Mario 64 DS, there are 150 stars to collect. Thirty more than 
 the original :) . In my mind, the sad truth is that the original to me is better than the re-make. 
 The original is what made this game so awesome. The re-make though just feels awkward. To me, the 
 music is sort of ruined. It just does not sound like the original. Of course, they probably re-mixed 
 it to make the music better. I think Nintendo sould not have done that, because I really enjoyed 
 the music from the original.... alot! In the re-make, the music got knocked off a few points, sounding 
 a little worse than before. The characters in this game are harder to control, than the original. 
 Some of the things that were in the original, are not in the re-make. For example, Yoshi is not 
 on the roof to give you lives to make Mario immortal. I think the special effect caps have been 
 removed. I did not like this because I like the hats. The winged hat is my favorite. Overall, great 
 re-make to a true classic, not as good as the original, characters are harder to control, more 
 levels, more stars, same story as original. BUY THIS GAME if you want to go back in time. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: AKayy_47
Rating: 9.5
Date: Aug 10, 2008 12:31 pm PT
Review:  Genre: Platforming
  
  I used to play Super Mario 64 at my friend's house back in the day, and I thought it was really 
 fun. When I played through the handheld version on my sister's DS, my thoughts on the game did 
 not change one bit.
  
  Super Mario 64 DS is both a great update and a fun game for newcomers. All of the fun gameplay 
 and platforming, devilishly difficult puzzles and innovative worlds are brought to the Nintendo 
 DS in a highly entertaining way.
  
  The notorious Bowser has again captured Princess Peach, and it's up to you to find the three brothers 
 with Yoshi and then save her as Mario. Nothing too original there, but the cute story plays along 
 nicely. 
  
  Gameplay is a total blast in this game. The levels of platforming are ingenius, with just the right 
 amount of difficulty and length put into them. There TONS of worlds and environments to explore 
 and play through, ranging from hopping across hot lava and sliding down icy slopes. All of these 
 worlds are accessible from the Castle, but some doors need to be unlocked with a certain amount 
 of Stars. Different environments have little tools and objects you can use to help your character 
 get to where they need to go. Boss fights are fun and sometimes even challenging. You'll be fighting 
 giant rocks, eels and of course Bowser, up to three times! There are all of types of enemies here 
 like goombas, black bombs and biting flowers. The controls on the DS aren't as fluid as on the 
 N64, mainly the use of an arrow-pad instead of an analog stick. You probably won't use the little 
 pen or the second screen much, unless looking for a Star on a map. Gold, red and blue coins are 
 spread throughout each level which, if you collect 100 of them, you can then use to unlock more 
 stars. Speaking of Stars, collecting the gold ones is your main objective throughout each level, 
 with up to 150 of them to find. It can very challenging to find these stars or get to them, but 
 this gives the game more replay value and length. Also, retrieving Stars is very rewarding in itself. 
 
  
  There are four different characters to play as; Yoshi, Mario, Luigi and Wario. Each character has 
 their own abilities and advantages. Yoshi can breathe fire to melt ice, swallow things and jump 
 high. Mario can wall jump, run fast, float like a balloon or sometimes fly. Luigi can jump very 
 high and turn transparent to go through walls. Finally, Wario can break black bricks with his strength. 
 Of the three moustached characters, you can unlock their abilties with power flowers in different 
 levels. You'll need to use each character to get to different parts of a level or collect certain 
 Stars. 
  
  The cartoonish 3D graphics from the original game are back and much improved, although there are 
 some slight blemishes. Classic Mario music sounds nice and sets the mood for environments well. 
 There isn't any talking, just sound effects and some phrases uttered by the characters. 
  
  Super Mario 64 DS has tons of unlockables. There are lots of different rabbits hopping about that, 
 if you catch, unlock mini-games. Also, Mario, Luigi and Wario are all found and unlocked on different 
 levels. The DS version also includes some multiplayer, but it's pretty shallow and there isn't 
 much to do with it. However, the little side missions for even more stars are pretty fun.
  
  If you own a DS and you're looking for a fantastic and entertaining adventure you soon won't 
 forget, pick the new update, Super Mario 64 DS.
  
  Pros:
  -Great update of a classic game
  -Fun adventure with a lot of replay value
  -Four different 
 characters to play as
  -Amazing platforming levels and tons of great worlds
  -Fun boss fights
  -150 challenging Stars to unlock
  -Great puzzles which utilize character 
 abilites nicely
  -Light soundtrack with solid 3D graphics
  -Entertaining side missions
  -Lots of unlockables
  
  Cons:
  -Shallow DS multiplayer
  -DS controls aren't as fluid as 
 with analog sticks
  -Minor graphical blemishes
  -Stars can sometimes get too challenging to find
  -Certain platforming levels can sometimes become 
 frustrating
  -Not much improvement from the original
  -Unoriginal story
  
  Gameplay: 9.6
  Graphics: 7.7
  Sound: 8.4
  Replay Value: 10
  Concept: 6.5
  Concept: 
 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Nikki-No-Credit
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 5, 2008 7:34 am PT
Review:  It's great to see the legendary 'super mario 64' being brought back on the DS. i was so excited 
 about this because i have brilliant childhood memories of playing it on the N64 and missed it so 
 much.
  
  The leap from the television screen, to the small DS screen has been incredibly successful, environments 
 and characters are easy to see plus there's the added benefit of the characters looking much better 
 than what they did on the N64.
  
  The game storyline plays out almost exactly the same to the original, mario goes to see peach but 
 peach is kidnapped etc... with the only difference being that we start off playing as yoshi, and 
 not only does mario arrive to see peach, but so does luigi and wario, they soon find themselves 
 trapped and it's up to yoshi to save them.
  
  As soon as you unlock all the playable characters you find out that they all have different skills 
 which must be used to get stars such as yoshi being able to swallow and carry fire so he can melt 
 ice, Luigi can jump the highest but is the weakest, mario has the ability to wall jump, and wario 
 may be slow and not be able to jump very high, but he is very strong and can destroy blocks that 
 no other character can. This adds a whole new dimension to the game.
  
  unfortunately, the three caps and their switches did not return fully, the flying cap switch is 
 still there and mario is the only character that uses this, the invisibility and the metal caps 
 have been replaced with a flower, when the flower is used, it gives each character a different 
 ability, it gives luigi invisibility and wario the power to become metal. mario can also use this 
 flower although his power is somewhat hit an miss at times, this is because he has the ability 
 to float, but he can also bounce off surfaces causing you to go wildly in the other direction, 
 and when mario falls from a height... he gets hurt.
  
  All the original stars have returned from the N64 version along with some new ones and new hidden 
 areas, these hidden areas aren't as thrilling as they sound, one's just a room with loads balls 
 that look like giant bombs. but the new missions are quite a nice touch, the switch star missions 
 require you to stand on a switch which reveals a star, you then have to reach that star in a time 
 limit or the star will disappear, this actually requires some skill and is really fun to do.
  
  Speaking of fun *coughs* they've brought back the rainbow ride level, yes it's still a nightmare 
 and yes i still find myself falling off the edges far too much, plus the camera takes some time 
 to get your head around so be prepared for dodgy angles which means you can't judge your leap all 
 too well and.... well i think you can guess what happens there.
  
  A lovely addition to the DS title is the wide selection of mini games which you can unlock by catching 
 rabbits around the castle. I got completely hooked on them, i was sat there at midnight saying 
 to myself "must get the level 30, must get to level 30..." and i challenge someone to beat my high 
 score on the 'wanted' game i think i got to level 312 or something stupid like that, just a minute, 
 i'll  
 aha it was 312 :D
  
  Sadly the multiplayer isn't as successful, it requires you to compete against up to 3 other people 
 with only one game card and collect as many stars as possible, is pretty uneventful and lacks in 
 any action, but to be fair, it's not really built to be a multiplayer game.
  
  Overall this game is really worth playing, it's retained most of it's charm from the original and 
 is still as brilliant as it was then, just be prepared to be let down by the multiplayer.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: BizarroPat
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jul 31, 2008 3:17 pm PT
Review:  In 1996, a revolutionary Mario game was released all over the world. The hero of the Mushroom Kingdom 
 was going 3-D for the first time ever in Super Mario 64. Nearly a decade later, Nintendo released 
 Super Mario 64 DS on the Nintendo DS.
  
  The remake has all of the same stages and coins as the original plus more. As well as the choice 
 of playing using the DS touchpad. The graphics are somewhat improved in order to keep up with other 
 DS games. 
  
  The most notable addition is the chance to play as Yoshi (whom you start the game with instead of 
 Mario) , Luigi, and Wario, each with their own talents and skills. Some new stars are only reachable 
 by using these characters.
  
  The objective of the game is to save Peach who has been kidnapped by Bowser yet again (lock her 
 up or something, jeez Mario.) by traveling through worlds in paintings inside of her castle. In 
 each world there are a number of Power Stars. Complete tasks and you will be able to get a Power 
 Star. You must collect Power Stars through the whole game as well as fighting Bowser three times, 
 each battle being progressively harder.
  
  Overall this is a great remake and very fun. It's the classic with some new twists. I give this 
 game a 9.5/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Solid_Snake24k
Rating: 7
Date: Jul 28, 2008 7:40 am PT
Review:  Let me start this review by sating how much I loved the origianl game for the N64. I liked it so 
 much that I bough a DS and bought this game almost immediately. In some ways my expectations were 
 met and surpassed, and in others the DS was not capable of meeting them (yes im talking about the 
 lack of an analog stick) . 
  The graphics look better here than they did back in the day, which is good. There are added stars 
 and mini games, which is very good. Essentialy, its mario 64. From there it goes downhill.
  Being able to play as Yoshi, Luigi and Wario seems like a gimmick rather than an addiction to the 
 game, though that's nothing ompared to the control issues. Controling a 3D mario with the D-pad 
 is not nearly as fun or engaging as using an anolog stick. I have found myself not being able to 
 complete relativily easy levels because of this flaw. Though some people may be able to eaily work 
 past this problem, I found myself unable to do so and still be enjoying my time with the game. 
 This flaw is especially evident when you need to spin bowser around.
  Bottom line is this game is a perfect port aside from the lousy control scheme. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: widdowson91
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 17, 2008 2:00 pm PT
Review:  Super Mario 64 DS is a remake of the original game that first appeared on the Nintendo 64 back 
 in 19996, a game widely regarded as the best 3D platform game ever made. Upon it's release, Super 
 Mario 64 was one of the most eagerly anticipated videogames ever, and the games visuals blew it's 
 players away.
  Although the DS version is game is a remake, it isn't a direct remake. What I mean is that it is 
 not exactly the same as the original. Although the original was and still remains one of the best 
 3D platformer ever, what the remake brings to it is just enough for players of the original to 
 buy it. Also the visuals and sound have been improved so the game looks better than ever.
  
  Yet again, Peach has been kidnapped by Bowser and it's up to Mario to yet again save her, as 
 players of the original will remember. 
  In the original, the only playable character is Mario. This isn't a bad thing but there wasn't 
 as much a variety of puzzles. But on the DS version you can play as either, Mario, Luigi, Yoshi 
 or Wario. You start the game as Yoshi and you have to unlock the other 3 characters. Although it's 
 simple to unlock Mario, it is much harder to unlock Luigi and Wario as their Paintings are harder 
 to find.
  
  Each character has there own special moves and attributes. For instance Mario is an all-round character, 
 while Wario is powerful, slow and has a bad jump. Luigi is a good jumper, is fast, but is weak. 
 While Yoshi is the weakest character but has decent speed and is a good jumper, he also has the 
 ability to swallow enemies. Each character also has there own 'special' flower power. For instance 
 Mario inflates in size and acts like a balloon. Luigi turns translucent and can run through certain 
 objects. Wario turns to metal and can run on the bottom of lakes. And Yoshi blows fire out of it's 
 mouth.
  Because each character has there own abilities, they have certain levels that only they can do. 
 On the original, Mario has the flower powers of Luigi and Wario, but gets his power from hats, 
 but on the remake there may be a level that in the original Mario could do, but on the remake, 
 Luigi may have to do it.
  There are still the same 15 worlds that are on the original and there locations in the castle are 
 in the same places. But on the DS version, there are 7 levels on each world instead of 6, plus 
 one bonus star for getting 100 coins on that world. And there are also in total 150 Power Stars 
 which is 30 more than the original. Plus there are 30 hidden Power Stars, 15 more than the original.
 
  
  The music on the original was great but on the remake, the music sounds like it was taken directly 
 from the original and it sometimes sounds static, but this isn't the case with the games music. 
 It's the environment sounds like when you hear birds sing, that sometimes sound static. I did mention 
 that the visual were better on the DS version, in fact they are much better, proving the capabilities 
 the DS actually has when you push it to its limits.
  The controls are a bit sticky compared to the original. Because it is on the DS it has lost the 
 ability to move with the analogue, so you have to press and hold the 'X' button while moving to 
 run. The controls aren't as fluid as the original, but still feel pretty good. 
  This game is great, its visuals are stunning for the DS, and when it doesn't sound static, the 
 games has surprisingly clean sound. This game is worth a purchase if you own a DS. Even players 
 of the original should think about getting this game, as all the additions make it worthy of playing 
 through again.
  
  Gameplay - 8
  Graphics - 9
  Sound - 8
  Value - 9
  Design - 8 
::::::

::::::
UserName: vuk39
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jul 26, 2008 9:20 am PT
Review:  ok its not as good as the first but it still rocks good parts of this game.
  its just like the original super mario 64
  but this time you can play as mario, luigi, yoshi, 
 wario
  and there are mini games 30 extra stars beter graphics
  and there are a few extra levels bad parts of this game the controls are stupid
  you have to 
 press and hold
  the b buton to run
  the screen is small
  you cant play as waluigi in this game also you cant get the 100 lives when you are at the top of 
 the castle
  to ulock mini games you have to catch rabbits
  the sound in this game is notas loud some levels are anoying
  
  if you havent playt super mario 
 64 in a long time and want to play it again
  check this game out but im not sure will you like this game but
  il likes it and i think you 
 shoud get this game now stop reading this and go get it 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ReviewKing
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jul 20, 2008 9:02 am PT
Review:  I remember how how I had with this game, but someone stole my old DS and all of it's games and 
 I had to get a new DS. This game is the same storyline except this time, you also play as Yoshi, 
 Luigi, and Wario. But you start out as Yoshi cause the other 3 were so hungry and stupid, they 
 went in the castle and gets captured just like Peach. So now, you have to rescue them (At least 
 onlt Mario, you can leave Wario and Luigi to be in misery for all I care) and then defeat Bowser, 
 but this time there is 160 stars. They let you use the touch screen to move and jump and all of 
 the other controls, but I prefer buttons because the touch screen for something like this is stupid. 
 The graphics are better than the original Super Mario 64, and also one of the best graphics on 
 the DS. The music in this game is the same thing as Super Mario 64, except there are a couple of 
 new levels. But what do you have for each character's own unique abilities you ask? Well if I could 
 finish speaking I could tell you. Yoshi is pretty cool, you get to breath fire for a short time. 
 Mario blows up into a balloon which I think is stupid and they should remake that idea into something 
 else, Luigi can turn invisible and go through gates and all that crap, and Wario can turn metal 
 cause he has a hard head. The online play is just you with Yoshis to battle for stars and you also 
 use those hats to turn yourself into one of the other characters. The game is great, kids love 
 to see their favorite characters in a game again and adults get challenged to beat the game, you 
 could beat the game with like half the stars, but if you're like me, you go further for all of 
 them. One last thing, that last sentence I said dosen't mean I'm addicted to games, it means that 
 you will judge a book by it's cover. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Dallercoder
Rating: 10
Date: Jul 18, 2008 8:17 am PT
Review:  Yay! Mario returns to his best adventure, now with Luigi, Wario and Yoshi! 
  The same as usual, Bowser kidnaps Peach (again) and Mario can only rescue her by collecting stars, 
 so that means he needs a little help from a cowardly brother, a grumpy doppelganger and a friendly 
 dinosaur. it is a quite short game but you can still explore and find more stars and secrets.
 
  
  The gameplay is almost perfect apart from when you're in a tricky situation trying to defeat a 
 boss. It is frustrating so I will give this section 7/10
  
  The graphics are brilliant, so you won't be having to worry about squinting to see the text on 
 the screen. 10/10
  
  Music and sounds aren't too bad, but sometimes it does distract you in certain levels. 8/10
  
 
  The value is a regular price but if you look you can have some great offers. 8/10
  
  The reason I gave it 10 out of 10 is because it is very enjoyable for all ages and also it can 
 make time zoom past if you're waiting for something!
  
  I really recommend this game. You WILL like it! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Gaming4_Life
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jul 11, 2008 4:59 pm PT
Review:  Where do I even start? This game is amazing!! The game is a remake to the wildly popular Mario 
 64 for the N64 back in the day. It's a remake with a few extra bells and whistles which make this 
 game even better. The presentation, the graphics, the sound everything was spot on. This game takes 
 hours to beat and countless stars and rabbits to catch. On top of that you now get to play with 
 three new characters. Wario, Yoshi, and Luigi. They all have differen't rabbits, which leads to 
 new and fun mini games. This game is a must buy for anyone familiar with Mario 64 and people who 
 aren't at all. This game is all nostalgic for me and thousands of players. I can't think of much 
 to complain about with this game except for one small tiny thing. The controls, It can get a bit 
 hairy at times running though some of the levels and some of the boss's levels with the d-pad as 
 your trying to change camera angles as your jumping away from the fire and dodging baddies. Besides 
 that this is a great game worth the money for hours and hours of fun and enjoyment. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: HappyGamingNerd
Rating: 9
Date: Jul 8, 2008 11:12 am PT
Review:  Super Mario 64 DS is just a reamke of the Super Mario 64 for N64. In this version there are 30 more 
 stars, together its 150 stars. Thers also some new levels wich are Awesome. All Die-hard super mario 
 64 fans should check this out, its that good.
  
  The story begins that you play as yoshi and go to the castle to search for the other friends (Wario, luigi, Mario 
 of course) , and along you go trough many Big 3D levels... and thats about it. It will take a long 
 time for you to find the 150 stars and all the red coins from all the stages. If you have played 
 the original then it will be a little more easier to get all the stars.
  Anyway this game is just so fun, that evrytime i complete i start a new game a try to collect all 
 the 150 stars again.
  Those who want to have their first DS game should get this, its a good start! really.
  All the 
 characters have the classic Soundboards, i love how wario spells his own name "WAAARIOO!".
  
  Overall evry DS gamer should have this game its one of the best 3D games for the DS, you wont 
 be dissapointed.
  
  Thank you for reading -HappyGamingNerd 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Leeman911
Rating: 8
Date: Jul 6, 2008 7:35 pm PT
Review:  Mario 64 ds is the remake of the classic on the 64 and its good and it has better graphics than 
 the 64 version and ok controls the styles dosent move mario well at all. It has good sound and a 
 camrea thats not bad. You can play as mario ,yoshi, lurigi, (and wario which i havent unlocked yet) . It 
 has more stars than the 64 verision like 20 or something and some diffrent red coin places than 
 the 64 version. You also have a couple miny games to play which is not bad because you get to play 
 with your stylelis. You also have a mutiplayer mode which means if you and your friend hhave a ds 
 and this game you can play togather in a miny game yo see how can collect the most stars. Get this 
 game if you dont alreadt have it for your n64. o o o o o o oo o o o o o o o o o o oo o o o o o 
 o o o o oo o o o o o o o oo o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o 
 o o o oo oo o o o o o o o 
::::::

::::::
UserName: haloboy10
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 30, 2008 1:30 pm PT
Review:  The new updated version of super Mario 64 with improved game play and graphics makes this one of 
 the best Mario games you can buy on the ds the 150 stars mean long game play and will keep the 
 player playing and playing i've completed super Mario 64 DS well i saved princess peach i have 
 80 stars the amount to reach the last bowser battle which is a pain because it is almost impossible 
 its like playing halo 3 on legendary but burn through enough 1-up mushrooms you'll eventually triumph 
 and princess peach you can tell when you've saved because she kisses Mario on the cheek. The bowser 
 battle music is awesome it really suits the battle. The best jumper are Yoshi and Luigi the strongest 
 is Wario and the one with the average stats is Mario. The toads scattered around the castle are 
 full of information but some carry stars and they'll give them to you. some of the painting worlds 
 are hard some easy but in every painting world there are more stars to collect but you can do stages 
 in whatever order you like. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Jamez634
Rating: 9
Date: Jun 25, 2008 8:28 pm PT
Review:  I thought you'd like to know that Nintendo have released Super Mario 64 on the DS and how it turned 
 out. Well, I'm here to tell you it turned out very well. It's not as good as the N64 version because 
 the DS has no analog sticks so you have to use the dodgy depad. to move your character. Though, 
 it is incredibly fun and adventuress.
  
  STORY
  The story isn't exactly the same as the N64, so I'll tell you it anyway even if you have played 
 it on N64. Princess Peach invites Mario to the castle because she has baked a cake for him. Mario 
 arrives accompanied by Luigi and Wario (in the N64, only Mario arrives) , as Yoshi is sleeping on 
 top of the castle. When Yoshi wakes up, he realizes Mario and the gang haven't returned so he goes 
 into the castle to find them. Of cause Bowser has taken Princess Peach, but more bad guys have 
 taken Mario Luigi and Wario (the Toadking has taken Mario, Big Boo has taken Luigi and the Ice 
 Bully has taken Wario) . Through the game, Yoshi will find them, then you can control them. Bowser 
 has also made the paintings in the castle portals to different worlds where you can retrieve all 
 150 stars (there are also some secret stars in the castle) .
  
  Story 9/10
  
  GAMEPLAY
  The game feels a little different to the N64 because of the N64's controls are rather 
 different to the DS's. You use the de-pad or the touch screen to move. Yes, if you've played Zelda 
 Phantom Hourglass or Animal Crossing Wild World you'll know what I mean (remember this is optional, 
 you never have to control your character with the stylus if you don't want to) . You'd expect A 
 to be the button you use to jump scince it's the DS, but you don't. B is to jump and A is to punch 
 or kick. Y is to make you run. If you don't hold down Y, Mario walks as slow as he can go, so I'd 
 hold down Y the whole time your playing. R is crouch or crawl and L and X are change camera view. 
 The camera view can get annoying sometimes no matter how much times you change it, so that's a 
 bit of a downfall. There is a room in the castle where you can play a load of fun minigames with 
 your stylus. NOTE: If you've played New Super Mario Bros. the minigames on this are the same as 
 on that. You can unlock these minigames by catching rabbits around the castle.
  
  Gameplay 7/10
  
  GRAPHICS
  Super Mario 64 DS looks like the N64 game. The level designs are 
 nice and colourful so you know your playing a true Mario game. How much things can I say about 
 it? The graphics are at their best! The only pixel trouble is when you're using the close up camera 
 view. It's just a fantastic 3D DS game!
  
  Graphics 9/10
  
  SOUND
  The classic Mario music is played at each level. The music never gets annoying (it may make you 
 feel sad you have to turn it down!) . The music is happy and joyful and every bad guy has a special 
 grunt. The Boos laugh like a little green goblin and the Whompas make a GRRRRRR as they fall on 
 the ground.
  
  Sound 10/10
  
  MULTIPLAYER
  Super Mario 64 DS only has the option of Download Play (would you want any other?) . You can battle 
 with up to 4 people to get the most stars in 4 different levels. It is extremely fun, only you'll 
 wish there were more levels to battle on (the minigames aren't multiplayer) .
  
  Multiplayer 6/10
  
  Overall, Super Mario 64 DS is a great remake of the N64 version. All Mario 
 fans will have fun with it and really anyone with a DS should check it out because it is one of 
 the best DS games EVER!
  
  RATING 9.0 
::::::

::::::
UserName: vanderbruggen
Rating: 8
Date: Jun 22, 2008 3:06 am PT
Review:  If you have played the old game, you know what to expect, because it's pretty much the same thing, 
 but there are some new features, which are very entertaining. 
  
  Gameplay:
  Well, this is one of the downsides about this game. The D-pad is just not good enough, and frequently 
 you will find it very frustrating that the controls are not as accurate as it should be in a 3D 
 platfomer. Some of the stages are also very hard. As you probably know you have to collect stars 
 in this game, and some of them is very well hidden, and seems almost impossible to find. The good 
 thing is that the lower screen on the DS works as a map, and will show you were some of the stars 
 is, but not all of the stars will be shown. 
  
  Graphics:
  Super Mario DS has very nice graphics; it's very bright and colorful which makes it very enjoyable 
 to look at. The game is a remake of the N 64 game, but the graphics looks way better than it did 
 on the N 64. It's very nice to experience all the old stages in new and better graphics. 
  
  Sound: 
  The sound is what you expect from a Mario game, it's the same soundtrack as always, 
 but I like that. It fits very nicely into the game, and I see no reason to chance an already great 
 soundtrack. 
  
  Value: 
  You can collect 150 stars in this game, which will take a whole lot of hours to do. Many of the 
 stars are hidden, and you may spend a long time trying to find them all. You can also unlock a 
 bunch of mini-games. These mini-games are very well made, and could easily keep you busy for some 
 hours.
  
  Overall this is a very fun game. It has some controlling issues, but the rest of the game is so 
 well made that it will give you hours of excitement. It's really a game you could recommend to 
 anybody who owns a Nintendo DS. 
  
  Gameplay: 7
  Graphics: 9
  Sound: 8
  Value: 8
  Tilt: 8
  
  Total: 8 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: NovaScizor75
Rating: 9
Date: Jun 7, 2008 5:53 pm PT
Review:  Super Mario 64 was phenomenal on the N64, and this game is just as good. The graphics are actually 
 pretty dang amazing on the DS, in fact, they look way better than the original Super Mario 64. 
 All the music from the original is back, though it isn't as crisp and clear-sounding as it was 
 on the N64. The gameplay is virtually unchanged, though there are some additions. It's still the 
 same non-linear world, but now with an additional 30 stars. Now, not only can you play as Mario, 
 but you can also play as Wario, Luigi, and Yoshi. Each character has their own strengths and weaknesses 
 (Wario is the strongest, Yoshi can only fire eggs, etc.) . There is also a big collection of addictive 
 minigames which you can unlock throughout the main game. One downer is the control scheme. Though 
 you can switch between 3 different settings, in any one of them, you have to practice with it. 
 Once you get used to the control scheme, this is a really fun game that any Mario fan should at 
 least check out. It didn't stray from the original's formula, it lengthened the game with additional 
 stars, and revamped the graphics without taking away from it's fun factor. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Pro-Styler
Rating: 9
Date: Jun 4, 2008 2:17 am PT
Review:  Story: if you have ever bought a Mario game for the story, your probably crazy. Anyway Princess 
 Peach has baked a cake and has invited Mario, Luigi and Wario along to share her fantastic cake. 
 The party must have gone worng somehow because you end up waking up as Yoshi, just being told that 
 Bowser has kidnapped Peach, Mario, Luigi and Wario.
  
  Gameplay: If you have played the original Mario 64 then you will be used to this concept of Gameplay. 
 In short the gameplay is basically heading into the paintings then using whatever means possible 
 finding the powerstars. The more powerstars you unlock the more places you can go to, to get even 
 more powerstars to eventually defeating bowser.
  
  Extras: 
  Multi-Player: This game is truly and unmistakably a one-player game! there is a 2 player mode in 
 which you gather as many powerstars until the time runs out. This might not seem so bad at first 
 glance but from hind-sight it's a different story. Heres some things that are bad about it 
  1. There are only 4 maps to choose from in which you can play multi-player.
  2. There is only 
 30 seconds of fun until the round is over when you'll have to go back to the menu and pick a stage 
 again.
  For these 2 reasons and these 2 reasons alone the Multi-Player seems a bit rushed.
  Minigames: All and all I have nothing bad to say about the mini games and getting the Mini games 
 from adventure is fun and can be a challenge. I'll just say one thing which is neither good nor 
 bad about the minigames. Some of the mini-games are very similar to some of the other mini games 
 (as in very very similar) usually they just increase the difficulty. But 10/10 for the minigames 
 good job Nintendo.
  Draw: This isn't really a game and its usually funner when there is a friend nearby to do it with 
 you. Thats right im talking about the draw feature. The DS equivalent to the distorting of Marios 
 face. This i think is better because in this feature you can draw your own thing and then distort 
 it YOURSELF! 
  
  Conclusion: This is a great game old and new Mario fans will enjoy this, Some people will say this 
 game is a remake but in all regards i see this game as a upgrade 9/10. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 4EverGreen
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 1, 2008 3:08 pm PT
Review:  While there's nothing wrong with re-releasing a big console game onto a handheld system, Nintendo 
 knows when to go the extra mile, and they always do it very well! Not content with already releasing 
 the perfect game on a perfect system, Nintendo did even better than itself and managed to perfect 
 their perfection! Now Mario is no longer the only hero in this story! Luigi, Wario, even Yoshi 
 gets in on the action! They all have their different skills and different abilities, all of which 
 are needed to get through different areas of the game! Old levels have new areas to explore, new 
 challenges are added to an already challenging game, a bunch of fun, multi-player games are added 
 on which have their own fun values and their own replay value, and the control scheme works like 
 a charm on the Nintendo DS, and the musical sounds of the game sound just as good as ever! Best 
 of all, the graphics manage to outshine those of the original release, reaching Sega Dreamcast 
 levels easily and easily equaling home console fun! But did Nintendo stop there? No way! They managed 
 to do the unthinkable and introduce brand new levels with brand new bosses, and make them just 
 as engaging and just as challenging as the original challenges! Yoshi can lick enemies up and spit 
 them out as eggs which he can throw anywhere. Mario can fly with the power of the red button switch 
 which gives him bird wings on his hat! He can also grow giant, and he can also float into the sky! 
 Luigi can jump super high and then hover towards the ground, and he can turn invisible! Wario is 
 a gargantuan powerhouse who can destroy things with his powerful punches, and he can also become 
 metallizised! Also, in addition to collecting the 120 original stars that were already collectible 
 in the original game, there are 30 additional stars to collect which truly makes for a truly challenging, 
 truly fun, truly enganing video game on par with few others! It's no wonder Nintendo is a highly 
 regarded video game company, in fact, it has and always will be one of, if not the best there is! 
 And they make the best video games in the world, just like this one. I certainly enjoyed it, and 
 that's why I wrote this review! :idea: Enough said! ;) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: eaglex14
Rating: 7.5
Date: May 31, 2008 8:25 am PT
Review:  This game, I was excited to get, (and it is a great game) but all it is, is Super Mario 64 With 
 3 other characters. Plus there's absolutely NO treasure whatsoever on the roof, and that brought 
 my rating down. Things I like about this game are the new special abilities. Having to be the certain 
 character to get the certain star. But there are way too many glitches. SwordlessLink made a Glitch 
 FAQ on this game :P Overall it was not a bad game, but Glitches, and the most of all games easy, 
 My rating for this game is a seven decimal five.
  =======
  7.5
  
  (ALSO)
  Glitches help you cheat way too much.
  
  As if I need 800 Characters... :P I need to fill up 
 space. I'm looking forward to Alone In The Dark, being released in June 24th, 2008. It's coming 
 out for Xbox 360, PC, Wii, (I'm getting it with wii) and later on with PS3. The game is horror 
 like, and since it's coming out for almost every console, you should try it! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Dizzyman572
Rating: 8.5
Date: May 30, 2008 7:59 am PT
Review:  In Super Mario 64 DS, you can play as Mario, Luigi, Wario and Yoshi.
  Yoshi was an unexpected surprise, because in every game I've ever played with Yoshi in it, involved 
 you riding on his back. I like playing as Yoshi because you can have him eat your victim, and then 
 spit him towards another goomba. Each character can do different kinds things; Wario can destroy 
 a huge block made entirely made of black bricks in one punch. 
  
  Yoshi, as I've said before, can eat his enemies and spit them at another.
  He can also jump the 
 highest and farthest. 
  
  Luigi can do the same things as Yoshi, but he can't eat his enemies. That would be weird for a 
 grown man in green overalls. He can also run on top of water for a few seconds, which is a nice 
 feature. 
  
  Mario is the only one that can wall jump. 
  
  There are 100 stars to find in the game, 130 if you count the secret stars, which can be hard to 
 find. Thankfully there's the Internet, that can help you in your time of need. Accept if you're 
 having troubles with your girlfriend, but that's a different subject. Were talking about games!
 
  
  However the D-pad can be a little frustrating to use, and can sometimes lead to your doom. There's 
 also a multi-player option where you can play with three of your friends, sadly there's only three 
 maps you can play on and the matches don't last long. There are also some mini-games that you can 
 play and unlock by catching bunnies. I know what you're thinking, but its fun to eat the bunnies 
 with Yoshi and listen to them plead for mercy. There's also these things called: Flower power ups. 
 Which have different effects on each character; I'll let you figure out these powers by yourself. 
 You can also change the outfit you're by wearing by grabbing one the hats in the level. 
  
  Example, if your playing as Luigi in the snow level and need the power of Mario to grab the star, 
 you can just find and grab Mario's hat to look and play like Mario. 
  
  Even though Super Mario DS is not as good as Super Mario 64, it's definitely worth your time and 
 money. 
  
  So I give it 4 thumbs out of 5.
  
  P. S. I would have used stars, but they were already taken. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: LuigiLorenzo
Rating: 10
Date: May 24, 2008 12:27 pm PT
Review:  Of course they had to make at least one more Mario game before 2008, and fortunately, it happened. 
 The new Super Mario version blasts through with some good ratings, some bad ones, but then again, 
 another good one right here. With a perfect 10, the game is nearly unbeatable at points, but it 
 is possible to get all 150 stars, including 30 extra stars, and at the same time, do a obstacle 
 course featuring Bomb-Omb Battlefield, Lethal Lava Land, Whomp's Fortress, and Cool, Cool Mountain. 
 Only a master of this game can beat all courses including 100 coin challenges, and secret stars, 
 but everyone can at least have some fun. There are booby traps, falling floors, caps, and flowers 
 that give you advantages, and disadvantages. The 3 new characters Luigi, Yoshi, and Wario as well 
 as the old hero Mario, are needed to complete every single mission in the game. The near best game 
 for the Nintendo DS gets one more review, equaling a 10. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DannyRice
Rating: 9.5
Date: Apr 26, 2008 6:41 pm PT
Review:  The Good: There's even more content than ever with minigames and 30 more Power Stars; four characters 
 switching off makes the game more challenging and fun; the graphics are superior to the N64 version; 
 3-D controls actually work; there's a lot of world to explore; you'll want to collect all the Power 
 Stars, not just 80; each character has cool powers specific to them, all of which make sense; you 
 get to jump on Goombas.
  
  The Bad: Camera controls aren't as good as they were in 1996; the game's difficulty goes up and 
 down sporadically; some minigames are stupid; a lot of enemies aren't Goombas.
  
  Mario is probably the most famous character ever in a video game, except maybe Pac-Man. No, Master 
 Chief, Link, and the God of War don't even come close. Actually he's probably the most famous plumber 
 ever, too. Of course he's also one of the few plumbers out there that hops on Goombas.
  
  Whatever. Most people know this already. They may also know Super Mario Bros. was one of the best 
 console games of its decade, and remains one of the most revolutionary.
  
  But can Mario work in 3-D?
  
  Most certainly.
  
  The story isn't exactly deep, but it fits 
 a game like Mario. Peach is captured by Bowser in her castle, so you go in, collect Power Stars, 
 and save her. By now, this is old hat for Mario, even if you first played the N64 version. But 
 it's well worth the purchase for such a huge, fun 3-D world, surprisingly good controls (except 
 for the camera issues in the DS version) , and 120 Power Stars in the original, with 150 in the 
 DS version.
  
  First is gameplay. In the DS version you'll be playing as Yoshi first, then him and Mario, then 
 Luigi will join your team, followed by Wario. Each brings something special to the table, which 
 often are crucial powers to get the newly added Stars. It doesn't take away from the experience, 
 either. This unique idea in fact enhances the Mario-only game of 1996.
  
  You can jump (duh) , you can punch and kick (unless you're Yoshi, who... tongues...) , you can squash 
 people beneath your ass, literally, and even wall jump as Mario, run on water as Luigi, and have 
 even more destructive power as Wario.
  
  80 Power Stars are still enough to go and beat up Bowser, but the game is fun and challenging enough 
 to make you wanna stay for all 150. The minigames, which actually involve the touch screen, aren't 
 a waste of time either. They're fun, and well worth your time (except maybe the flower pedal pulling 
 one... LAME!)
  
  But, again speaking of gameplay, controls aren't always up to par. While switching out characters 
 involves going to a room in the castle, which is fine, moving the camera is sure to tick you off, 
 because frankly, despite having two ways to do it, it's not as good as it was on N64. Another issue 
 you might have is that the touch screen really isn't used in the main game- although this is a 
 remake. But since it was a launch title, you'd think they would determinedly incorporate it- for 
 good or ill.
  
  The graphics, however, are wonderful. It's good to see even our handhelds now can outdo the consoles 
 of the 90's, because the DS version is far superior in those terms. Take Mario's nose, for example. 
 It's no longer triangular on the sides! There are more colors, apparently, because Mario looks 
 less pale now, and it's a bit less blocky all the way through. Good work.
  
  The score is still quite impressive. While it would've been a bit lame on, say, the Gamecube, it's 
 dynamic and powerful for a handheld game. Plus, chunks of voiceover sound good, and don't detract 
 at all.
  
  Just like the original, the difficulty of the game goes up and down at random intervals, which 
 could bother you. For example, the later levels in the first portrait are far harder than the early 
 ones in the second portrait, and so on. But then, it's never too big a deal.
  
  They found a way to switch characters halfway through a level, which is nice, but I guess could've 
 been executed better. Still, you won't notice, because this is still one of the best Mario games 
 ever, and you certainly shouldn't miss it. If you think Mario is for kids, then wait till you jump 
 on a brand new, 3-D Goomba first. Innovation makes up for any childishness there is.
  
  And Mario will live on forever. He's like fricking Rambo! Or Jesus! Or something like that. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DK_47
Rating: 9.5
Date: Apr 21, 2008 4:04 pm PT
Review:  This game is amazing. The original was one of the greatest titles for the N64 and showed that a 
 classic series could take a new turn for the good. This game is a port of the original game with 
 better graphics and tons of new features.
  
  Quick Review:
  Graphics (9.8) Amazing updated visuals that raises standards for the DS 
  Sound (9.0) Original 
 effects and music still sound great but suffer slightly 
  Features (10) Jam packed with story, mini game and multi-player modes
  Controls (8.9) Smooth 
 switch from analog to D-pad, but with some issues
  Story (10) Original 64 story with additional stars and characters
  Overall (9.5) An upgraded 
 game that stays true to its legendary roots.
  
  Super Mario 64 DS is a port of the amazing classic: Super Mario 64. This game features updated 
 visuals, a new cast, a mini-game mode, a multi-player mode, and 40 extra stars. The original was 
 great, and this game is almost better. The new cast includes the original hero, Mario, Luigi, Yoshi, 
 and even Wario. These four characters all have special abilities and attributes that must be used 
 to complete the game. Also, the new mini-game mode is very entertaining and sports a different 
 genre of games for each of the four characters that must be obtained via the story mode. It is 
 a shame that the mini-game mode is not multi-player, unlike New Super Mario Bros. (another great 
 title) which includes the same games. The new multi-player mode supports up to four players in 
 local Wi-fi, using either single card or multi card play. This mode has you play as Yoshis that 
 can turn into the other characters by obtaining their hats from the ground. The Yoshis are fighting 
 over stars that must be collected and stolen from the other players under a time limit. There are 
 a few different locations available for play, wich are also the locations of secret stars in the 
 story mode. The player with the most stars wins. This mode is very fun and engaging. The visuals 
 have been updated and look great on the DS. Sound hasn't changed much, but the same memorable sound 
 effects and music are worth hearing. The controls are pretty good, but could have used some fine 
 tuning, as you will sometimes find yourself falling or running into walls at inopportune times, 
 but this is mainly to blame for the lack of good d-pad sensitivity on the DS. With the games upgraded 
 graphics, new features, and new modes, Super Mario 64 DS is a great game for anyone, fans of the 
 original and newcomers should both enjoy this great remake. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jason320
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 26, 2008 5:12 pm PT
Review:  This is a great remake of a really great game that was realesed back in the day for the N64. The 
 game is bascally the same so if you didn t like it on the N64 then you won t like it on the DS. 
 If you did like it or never played it then you should try this game out because it features 30 
 more unlockable stars, minigames, and multiplayer with your friends onn nintendo wi-fi. The game 
 has alot of new worlds along with some new ones. You can also play as Luigi, Wario or Yoshi and 
 some stars can only be unlocked by them. The music and graphics are really nice. This game is not 
 COD4 or The Orange Box, but it`s still an amazing game in it`s own way. I think this is one of 
 the must have games for any ds owner. It s a fun innovative experience, but the controls arent 
 as tight as they were on the N64 and eventually you find yourself trying to get the same star for 
 the 101st time. But after all that this is a great game and i think any DS owner should give it 
 a chance. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: agentdandb
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 25, 2008 7:58 pm PT
Review:  Super Mario 64 was a launch title for Nintendo 64 back in 1996. The game took advantage of the 
 N64's analog stick, which could move Mario in 360 degrees. In 2004, Nintendo's new portable system 
 was released. With a Super Mario 64 remake. The strange thing was Super Mario 64 DS, used the D-pad. 
 So this wasn't a good thing for the game. 
  
  
  The graphics are a big improvement over the original N64 version. Also Nintendo included three 
 other characters you could unlock and play. And each one has a special ability. Luigi can jump 
 high. Yoshi can eat enemies and turn them into eggs, and shoot at other enemies. Mario can jump 
 off walls. And finally Wario can punch big things.
  
  
  During the game you will encounter rabbits. Which if you can catch them, they unlock a mini-game. 
 Which can be played in the REC room. So far i have 22 unlocked. Most of them use the touch screen 
 to play, so that is a very nice touch.
  
  Finally this game is a great update of Super Mario 64. The controls aren't the best but they can 
 be alright at times. I give this game a 9.0 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pawel_9
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 5, 2008 5:52 am PT
Review:  In my opinion, this is the best game in the world for the DS.
  
  Gameplay: The main thing that you do in this game is travel to different worlds and collect stars. 
 It can get boring at first but when you have lots of stars you unlock new things and it gets much 
 funner.
  
  Graphics: The graphics in this game are like the N64 version but a bit better since the technology 
 in the DS is better than N64.
  
  Minigames: There are even minigames in this game. You can unlock new ones after you have certain 
 numbers of stars.
  
  Stars: The way to get stars is by completing objectives for different people in the different worlds. 
 For Example: In one world you need to climb a mountain and fight a huge Goomba, your reward, a 
 star. You need 150 stars to complete the game. You can also unlock Mario, Luigi, and Wario. Each 
 character has their own speciality and each character can help you get different stars.
  
  This game is awesome and my favourite game of all time for the DS.
  If you like adventure and 
 of course, Mario games, Get This Game!
  It is also very entertaining because once you get your first star, you want to get your second, 
 and your third and it is just so fun. It is also worth buying because you'll be entertained from 
 start to finish. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: svenkill
Rating: 8.5
Date: Mar 6, 2008 7:34 pm PT
Review:  This game was so much fun back in the day on the Nintendo 64. I remember looking forward to going 
 to McDonalds to play the N64 systems because I never owned one. The first time I tried this game, 
 I fell in love instantly.
  
  With Super Mario 64 DS coming out, I made sure it would be one of my first games I would pick up 
 when I got my DS. I wasn't dissapointed in the game at all except for the controls. Graphics are 
 much better than the original game, the new characters are a lot of fun to play, and the new courses 
 that have been added only add upon the original awesomeness of the game.
  
  The control scheme is the only downside to this game. Sadly, the D-pad just doesn't give you enough 
 precision movement as an analogue stick. So I tried using the Touch Screen control scheme and it 
 gives you a lot more precision, but is a little tough to use and takes a while to get used to. 
 After playing for about an hour or 2 now though I have gotten used to it and recognize it's limitations 
 and know how to get around them. I don't have the thumb stylus strap that the manual suggests using, 
 so I became a little inventive and grabbed some shoe string and tied the regular stylus to the 
 underside of my thumb where the tip of the stylus protrudes out past the tip of my thumb. I was 
 surprised at how well this worked and overjoyed at how well I could control the character in the 
 game! If you are having problems getting precision control with Mario 64, try tying your stylus 
 to the underside of your thumb! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Blueguy93
Rating: 9.5
Date: Feb 25, 2008 1:54 pm PT
Review:  Super Mario 64 is my favorite game next to Super Mario Galaxy, both are extremely fun. SM64 comes 
 to the DS, although this time with Wario, Yoshi, and Luigi tagging along with Mario. This remake 
 is a great game, but flaws in some parts take the spirit of a remake better then the original away 
 from it.
  
  Game-play: 9/10
  
  Yoshi is the actual one that starts out the game instead of Mario. Mario and his buddies, Luigi 
 and Wario, the latter should be his nemesis, got kidnapped visiting the princess, also kidnapped. 
 Yoshi must now save them. He can get the colored hat of the respective character and turn into 
 him. The other 3 characters can play when Yoshi rescues one of them, and the first is Mario. The 
 game-play is actually pretty solid and unique, but some lame ideas, including Luigi's flips, ruin 
 it for perfection. However, there is more to do, such as more stars, and mini-games, which keep 
 you perfectly entertained.
  
  Graphics: 10/10
  
  The graphics are easily better then the original, and lacks nothing. The areas are clean and beautiful, 
 yet so stunning you'll feel like you're being pulled right in to the game itself.
  
  Sound: 10/10
  
  Great music!! It's not as good as the original's, but is just as good. The 
 audio is also unbelievable.
  
  Camera and Control: 9/10
  
  The camera has no reason to have flaws. The control is a basic problem, though. It is creative 
 and all, but moving your character can be frustrating at some parts, even in the 2nd world, where 
 sometimes you can fall off. This cause extreme frustration and is best taken 1 step at a time.
 
  
  Value: 10/10
  
  SM64DS is a instant masterpiece and is one of the better games for the DS.
  
  Average Score: 
 9.6/10
  
  Super Mario 64 DS comes so close to perfection, but its control is nothing like the original. Still, 
 when you're choosing between this and the Wii version of the original game, the best choice is 
 this game. I'm sure you'll have loads of fun with this game, and it stands as one of the best remakes 
 ever. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: blueraydude1
Rating: 8.5
Date: Apr 22, 2008 8:31 am PT
Review:  this is some of the ds's best great game play good graphics and hours of fun.
  you use mario, luigi, wario, and yoshi all in this game to regain the power stars and save princess 
 peach. you start out with yoshi and get the other players it has mini games that you have to find 
 the keys for and they all the mini games are fun. its easier to use the d pad and not the touch 
 screen for this ds game, but for the mini games the touch screen is needed. this is one of my favorite 
 ds games out of the 3 i have right now and its kind of wierd how the ds can even support it but 
 the graphics are not super great or any thing. Its fun getting mario or luigi on top of the castle 
 with out finishing the game and using the cannon but its hard i tell ya. basiclly its a great game 
 and lots of fun for hours or a year or so. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bluesteel13
Rating: 9
Date: Jul 20, 2008 12:12 pm PT
Review:  This game has gone much better than the last time i saw it ,which was when it was on the Nintendo 
 64. The Graphics are much better than before and it has a unique style to it which is good, but there 
 is one little bad thing which i did not like the controls. I just can not get used to it and it 
 does not feel right for me.
  
  Storyline-
  Everyone must know the story of mario by now, alright if you dont know i will tell you. Princess 
 Peach sends Mario a message saying come my Castle, so Mario goes and does not return for a long 
 time (You should know what has happened to Mario and Princess Peach they have got captured by Bowser) Yoshi 
 was sleeping on the top of the castle waiting for Mario and then someone came to him and said mario 
 and his friends are locked up and you have to save them, so that is why you have to be Yoshi for 
 a little while in the game.
  
  
  Characters-
  There are quite a lot of Characters in this game, ther is Yoshi, Wario, Mario and Luigi they all 
 have different abilities so choose carefully when playing. Yoshi you can eat enimies with your tounge 
 and do triple jumps. Mario is a normal Mario he just does the same moves as in the normal version 
 on the Nintendo 64. Wario you can punch brick blocks easier but there is a dissadvantage he runs 
 slower than any of the Characters. Last but not least there is Luigi he can run fast and jump high 
 as in normal games he has been in, and there you have it all of the Characters you can play by also 
 if you were thinking could you play with Princess Peach no you can not.
  
   and everything you can think of in the game) -
  As you can 
 see i have given this game a 9.5/10, why it did not get a 10 is because of its controlls. The Graphics 
 9.0/10, Gameplay 9.5/10, Characters 9.5/10 and Overall 9.5/10. IT IS A FUN GAME!
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: grndyfn19
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 26, 2008 8:19 pm PT
Review:  Recommend ---Any Nintendo fan, Mario fan, praisers of the original... basically anyone
  
  Not Recommend ---People who hated the original because this is even worse, and people who hate portable 
 remakes because the switch to a handheld created some problems
  
  Super Mario 64 DS is a remake of the original Super Mario 64 for the Nintendo 64. Almost everyone 
 in the world has played the original game, and for a good reason too. It is widely accepted as 
 a classic and one of the greatest games ever created. There are many differences between this version, 
 though, and the original. First of all, obviously, are the graphics. Even though it was turned 
 over onto a handheld system, the graphics look much better. Sometimes they can look a little pixelated, 
 but overall they're much better than some of the blobby messes you saw on the Nintendo 64. Secondly, 
 there are 4 playable characters instead of 1: Mario, Luigi, Wario, and Yoshi. You start off the 
 game as Yoshi, and you unlock the other characters from there. Each character has different advantages/disadvantages 
 that gives you more of an option when choosing a character to use before a stage. For instance, 
 Yoshi can eat enemies, spit them out, do that triple jump thing, and turn into any of the 3 characters. 
 Mario is plain old Mario, Luigi can jump higher and do this new floating/twirling thing when you 
 do a backwards push-jump, and Wario can punch heavy objects such as the black bricks. Another addition 
 into the game are 30 more stars. The original only had 120 stars, which almost every Mario game 
 has, but this one has 150! The new stars are obtainable by completing new challenges exclusive 
 to the DS version (I played a level where you can fight King Goomba in a newly designed stage, 
 for example) and catching normal/shiny bunnies scattered across the castle and it's courtyard. 
 Also, when you catch these bunnies you get a key that you can bring to Toad to unlock new mini-games, 
 also exclusive to the DS version. The mini-games are the only time you really get to use your stylus, 
 and it makes good use of it, too. By the time you're done the game, you'll have so many mini-games 
 that it could have been released as it's own standalone game on shelves. One more unique feature 
 to the DS version is multi-player. Not that it's very good, but if you want you can connect with 
 other DS systems, whether they actually own the game or not, and compete to see who can obtain 
 the most stars. It's not that fun and very repetitive, but still a nice addition. So with all this 
 stuff, it's obviously better than the N64 version, right? Not exactly. You see, the N64 version 
 was a launch title for that system and was made to utilize the functions of the Analog stick on 
 the N64 controller. It's a huge 3D world to explore, and the analog stick was essential to wandering 
 these locations. On the DS, however, there isn't an analog stick (which, although irrelevant to 
 this review lol, is why the PSP has an advantage here) . All you have is a d-pad and a touch screen. 
 The d-pad is the only way most people will play the game with, which still isn't that great, because 
 using the touch screen is just impossible and not even worth trying. There's also a hybrid mode 
 where you mix the d-pad with the stylus, but that's even harder to use. So, you're basically stuck 
 with using the d-pad. That means that when you're in tight situations that rely on precise movement, 
 you're going to have some trouble and get extremely frustrated. This is even more frustrating when 
 mixed with the half -of-the-time horrible camera angles. Without a doubt you'll get over this problem, 
 but you'll never stop thinking of how much better it would be to just have an analog stick. This 
 game is, nonetheless, still great.
  
  Conclusion ---An unforgettable classic remade for the Nintendo DS that's better in every way, shape, 
 and form than the original except for the sloppy controls. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: chinds_pc
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 17, 2008 2:38 am PT
Review:  Super mario 64 ds is a worthy and beautiful remake of an old classic. The game relies entirely 
 on your skill for 3d platformers and still doesn't make it repitiive. 
  
  Though it lacks the Nintendo Wi-Fi connection but still it has a wonderful multiplayer and one 
 of the best single player. The mario series on the ds has been taken to another dimension with 
 this game. 
  
  It uses the fullest of the ds hardware to display wonderful graphics and gameplay. The game, like 
 most of the series has peach kidnapped by Bowser and to get her back, Mario (now with yoshi, Luigi 
 and Wario) need to collect the power stars hidden in the different levels and the castle itself.
 
  
  This is the game not only for people who love mario but also for people new to the series.
  
 
  This game is highly recommended to all ds owners!!! 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Zman_
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 11, 2008 8:17 pm PT
Review:  Your favorite Super Mario Game Shrunk down to fit your Nintendo DS.
  You get to play as Mario, Yoshi, Luigi, And Wario. The Graphics are much better than the N64 version. 
 New stars And The 7 Silver Stars. Bran New Stages. Yes you can still get to the top of the castle 
 but you can't get the Triple Jump and you can't get the 100 1UPs From Yoshi But There Is Another 
 Way To Get 100 1UPs (I Don't No This Yet Check The Hints And Cheats) . You will also find some Songs 
 You Know Well: lol:. I Think This Game Rocks You Can Move Mario With The D Pad And The Touch Screen.
 
  You Can Have So Much Fun With This Game. Also New Glitches.
  You Might Find Some Things Much Like The Old Version.
  My Favorite Character Is Mario Cause He's 
 Aways Been My Favorite.
  I Hope You Love This Game. If Your Like Me Your Play It For Hours. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: koopatroopa1015
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 6, 2008 5:52 pm PT
Review:  Over 10 years ago, Super Mario 64 was released for the N64. It quickly became a hit, and is now 
 known today to be one of the best games of all time. Then Nintendo had a brilliant idea. Reform 
 the old classic for a great new game on the Nintendo DS. Who knew such a great N64 classic could 
 be made EVEN BETTER on a handheld system! I sure didn't.
  
  Almost everything stayed the same, except for a few additions. Along with Mario, you can also play 
 as Luigi, Wario, and even Yoshi - each with special powers. There are also now 150 stars to get 
 - most of the same missions are still here, but a few have been taken out or redesigned. They're 
 all fun and challenging - some harder than others. All of the same places are here, the rules, 
 items, and enemies are still the same, along with some new ones and it's the same old fun. You 
 also get to unlock some fun minigames during your adventure. The controls are manageable, although 
 maybe a little difficult at first, with three different layouts so you can use what fits you best.
 
  
  One of the biggest improvements is the graphics. They are much clearer and smoother than in the 
 N64 version, and it all just looks simply impressive. The sound is also nice, it's the same old 
 favorite music and SFX as in the original, but cleared up a little. It's just great.
  
  For what you get in this game, it's well worth it. If you turn this game down, you're missing out 
 on a wild and exciting adventure - one that you'll want to play over and over. I recommend it to 
 everyone. Newcomers will definetely enjoy the new style of Mario, and fans of the original will 
 enjoy the old game brought back and updated.
  
  Once again, Super Mario 64 DS is a game that can't be passed up. Take advantage of the wonderful 
 surprises and memories it has to offer and you'll really have yourself a video game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Leonidas123
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jan 5, 2008 5:06 pm PT
Review:  Well there really isn't much to say except i've been playing this game for a while now and i can 
 say the graphics and sound are really great (but not perfect, occasionally the game has texture 
 issues and sound can be really poor at times) , but the game is hampered by poor and inaccurate 
 control.
  
  The original game for the N64 was meant to promote the analog stick present on that console, which 
 is unfortunately missing on the NDS so you have to do it either with the DPAD or some combination 
 with the touch screen, none of which really works well. The DPAD controls are imprecise and you'll 
 have a lot of trouble even with regular platforming tasks, such as jumping from one place to another, 
 or squishing goombas. The touch controls are even more silly, really.
  
  Fortunately, the areas have been adapted to new controls and are easier than before, and there 
 is more stars to collect than in original game. You also get to play with extra characters (wario, 
 yoshi, luigi) , each one having an additional special ability which mostly comes in handy when star-hunting.
 
  
  So overall, it's a decent game but poor control scheme sometimes really kills my will to play further, 
 and my finger likes to say ouch! a lot as well (but maybe it's just my DS having rather hard diagonals) .
 
  
  7.5/10 (actually the score would have been even lower if it weren't for mario and stuff...) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nintendofan659
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 2, 2008 6:59 pm PT
Review:  You all know Mario 64 for the nintendo 64 in my opinion the best mario game of all time. So the 
 true gameplay is basically the same as the old game but with amped up graphics, some lame minigames, 
 and other playable characters. For the new player of the game the story is pretty basic, it starts 
 off peach call you for cake (yay) andd you head to the castle. The new twist is that not only comes 
 mario comes luigi and wario join the party. So no returning of mario and co. yoshi go out lookingfor 
 the lost heroes so yoshi is the bad part of the game. So once you get mario the game starts to 
 get insanely awesome, this game is very lon 60 levels to beat it 120 levels to derstroy it. The 
 minigames are pretty lame and get old way to fast only two or so are good. The multiplayer is OK 
 it's not going to take away from the single player game. So in the end this awesome game is in 
 your hands and nintendo did a great job lets see if they can tackle paper mario next.
  please Nintendo :) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 5_LD_5
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 28, 2007 2:15 am PT
Review:  When you think of Mario you think of one of the best and most popular video game characters of 
 all-time. Mario has had many amazing games and one of the best if not the best is Super Mario 64.
 
  
  Once hearing about Nintendo's new portable system and once hearing that they are making this classic 
 game so you can play it anywhere, it makes you think that this will be one spectacular game. On 
 the other hand you think such things as, will the controls and graphics be as good and will it 
 be the exact same game as Super Mario 64. I will tell you these answers.
  
  The graphics are pretty much exactly the same as the N64 version but when you think about it, that's 
 not a bad thing. It is a nice thing to have N64 graphics on a portable system.
  
  The controls are a little on the mediocre side. They're not horrible but they're not great either. 
 It is the camera that's horrible. The camera is very hard to get used to but once you get the hang 
 of it, it makes the game a bit easier. But you just might not get used to it. The camera is the 
 part of the game that is where I have to take some points off.
  
  With the graphics not really improving (that's not a bad thing, but it's just the same thing) and 
 the camera going a step down, there is still some parts of the game that's better than the original 
 game on the N64.
  
  - This time you don't just have to play as just Mario but you can play as 3 other characters. These 
 are Yoshi, Luigi and Wario. It doesn't change the game to much but it gives it that little extra 
 variety. In order to collect every star you're going to need to use all 4 characters. It is a cool 
 idea and it really works. It makes the game better.
  
  - There is also a rec-room in which you play mini games. You unlock mini games by catching rabbits 
 throughout the game. This is pretty much the only time that you use the stylus in the game. Each 
 character has about 10 mini games so there are about 40 in total. This is a great function in the 
 game that is great to play when you just need a break for Mario's big adventure. You will even 
 finding yourself wanting to play this game just for the rec room. 
  
  So is Super Mario 64 DS as good as or even better than Mario 64, probably not. I would say Mario 
 64 is a little better than Mario 64 DS because it is overall more fun to play this game on a TV 
 rather than the DS. The Rec Room and extra characters make this game better but it does not make 
 up for the camera or controls. Having said that this game is just a little bit worse than the original 
 but it is truly hard to make something better or even as good as Super Mario 64. Overall this is 
 an easy choice. This is a must buy and one of the best DS games out there. If you have a DS then 
 you must own Super Mario 64 DS.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Junior_AIN
Rating: 8.5
Date: Dec 27, 2007 5:19 pm PT
Review:  Super Mario 64 DS is a decent port of one of the most classic games of all time, Super Mario 64, 
 originally for Nintendo 64, and it was well done considering all.
  
  The main complain about the game are the controls, of course Super Mario 64 had the analog stick 
 which made possible not only a full command over Mario's movements, but one of the best examples 
 of freedom in a game, and even though that was just the beginning of fully 3D environments, and 
 a lot was yet to come, it's still a game where with just some moves, a lot is possible. Of course 
 here everything is limited, you won't have as much stability and precision, add that to a considerably 
 smaller screen and then you have the downside. Pretty forgettable if you think about it and keeping 
 in mind that you have such a classic game ready for you to play anywhere you go, but it's noticeable 
 throughout the adventure for sure.
  
  Now you can not just play with Mario, but with Yoshi, Luigi and Wario as well, pretty cool, each 
 of them has their own abilities and control schemes, like Wario being the heaviest and Luigi being 
 able to jump very high.
  
  The courses are the same, but with some improvements, now there's more stars in each one, totalizing 
 150 throughout the whole game, against 120 of the original. And it's not only the new stars that 
 are different, some stars were changed slightly, some drastically, while some are exactly the same.
 
  
  Another plus are the mini-games, there's a whole bunch of them, and they're quite nice. The rest 
 is pretty much the same of the original, the graphics, the sound, all ported properly and adding 
 to the nostalgia feeling.
  
  So you got a game, with classic touch, but improved, and ready to be played any time you want, 
 if you liked the original, just be sure to check this one out! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: acklawhunt
Rating: 7
Date: Dec 27, 2007 8:57 am PT
Review:  This game is great but the controls are awful. It is very hard to turn your avatar at times when 
 you absolutely need to. Otherwise everything about this game is great. I had to go to about 3 anger 
 management classes and buy 8 new nintendo ds's to complete this game. If you really are annoyed 
 about unexplainably dieing and difficulties moving around, this game is not for you. The controls 
 are nothing like the original they are completely different. I guess the new charecters are alright 
 but I see no need for them. But if you wan't to see your favorite childhood game again go out and 
 buy it. I take 3 off for the awful controls. 7 out of 10. Sorry Nintendo but you shouldnt put such 
 an amazing game on not such a great handheld. You actually got my hopes up. If this were for Gamecube 
 or Wii this game would be amazing but not this time. Sorry Mario 
::::::

::::::
UserName: weddlecm
Rating: 7
Date: Dec 26, 2007 7:51 am PT
Review:  Super Mario 64 Ds is an update from the original for Nintendo 64. I have to say I don't like it 
 that much. I mean it's a cool game and all because it's Mario, I mean you can't go wrong with Mario 
 right? I think it's just an average game. There are lots of fun mini games in it. That's one reason 
 I like it also, believe me they are very addicting! When you start out in this game walking it 
 walks slow then starts to run fast. It gets very anoying, but I guess you can get used to it, if 
 you play it alot. From the orinal one I think this is a great update with the graphics and gameplay, 
 and all the different characters. So unless you really loved the first original Supar Mario 64 
 I don't think you will really enjoy this game. So don't go out in buy this if your in the mood 
 for a very actionous game. I made that word up, haha, but you know what I mean. 7/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: snowboarder77
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 25, 2007 8:14 pm PT
Review:  I remember when this game first came out one the 64 i couldn't get one so when ever I went to one 
 of my friends house I always liked playing this so think when i heard it came out on ds what do 
 you think my first game was? This game is probably one of the best games on the ds I have ever 
 played you can probably go through this game is 15-18 hours but to get every star you probably 
 have to play at least 20 hours and I enjoyed almost every minute of it. 
  (some of the stars get a little challenging) The ability to switch between Mario, Wario, Luigi, 
 and Yoisi (might be spelled wrong.) was a nice twist to the game to give it a new thing for people 
 that owned the game before. If you ever liked a Mario game or just want a idea for a good game 
 if you don't already have it then I would highly recommend it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mariosonic91
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 20, 2007 10:04 am PT
Review:  Ive played this game 3 times. All files have 150 stars, i just love this game. The super mario 
 64 classic has been revived in mostly a good way.
  
  Story 9/10: An instant classic story, once again princess peach has been kidnapped by bowser. Though 
 this story has happened for over 20 years, who knew that rescueing her could still be so much fun. 
 It does add a new twist compared to the 64 version. Mario, luigi, Wario and yoshi are now off to 
 save her. Yoshi must save the 3 caped characters 1st and then all come together to fight bowser.
 
  
  Gameplay 9/10: The levels were always a blast, instant urge to explore. Even the new levels fit 
 in with the old castle. You have your original 15 levels, a few side levels with one or two secret 
 stars and now the characters you must rescue have their own paintings. For those who played the 
 original may still want to try this version. Not only are there several new levels, but even new 
 ways to get the stars. You must switch off between characters to get all of them, or find a cap 
 of that character and put it on and transform to him. Each character has their own specific power 
 and mario has shared some of his old powers with them. Yoshi can breathe fire ( new) while wario 
 can become metal wario ( taken from mario) . Mario can become a balloon (new) while luigi can become 
 invisible ( taken from mario) . Sometimes the camera can be frustrating, and only the standard mode 
 controls really feel right for the game. For the most part however the story mode is a blast. Along 
 with the story mode comes a new minigame mode. As you progress through the story mode, you can 
 unlock many minigames ( 36 in all) . The stylus gameplay is fun, yet simple. You never have a problem 
 with figuring out or control issue. There done flawlessly.
  
  Graphics10/10: For a launch ds game, the graphics are amazing. The worlds, characters, bosses, 
 items, all colorful and sharp. This game can go against any ds game on the market and thats saying 
 alot for being a launch title.
  
  Sound 9/10: The music is very enjoyable, the sounds are an instant classic, and the new sounds 
 almost fit perfectly with the super mario 64 game. Though some sound out of the mario world, others 
 sound like they could fit in the original game.
  
  Mairo 64 has revolutionized for the current generation, and has done a fantastic job of standing 
 out as well 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bowser_breath
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 17, 2007 1:12 pm PT
Review:  This game is a port from the genre defining title 'Super Mario 64', on the Nintendo 64. It was 
 a very well recieved title, and overall the transfer between the 2 consoles is superb. Their are 
 a few issues, as with all games, yet these do not affect the overall enoyment of the game. The 
 graphics are superb for such a small console. Whats more, this was a title launch for the DS, one 
 of the first to arrive on the scene. The graphics set a very high standard for DS games to follow 
 up, and with the benefit of heinsight we can say it is a bit dissapointing as very few games support 
 the visual beauty that can rival Super Mario 64 DS. Their are a couple, namely The Legend of Zelda: 
 Phantom Hourglass...
  
  I never actually played Super Mario 64, but obviously i live on planet earth and heard so much 
 hype about it. When i first got it for the DS i was captivated instantly by the brght vibrant colours 
 and the 'bob-omb battlefield' level. This level of 'wonder' wore off to me for some reason. I just 
 put it down to not preferring that genre. Yet i was wrong. I still played it everyday, and the 
 more i played it the more intense my love was for the game. By the time i finished i could truly 
 call myself a fan to this brilliant game and i still spend masses amounts of time trying to get 
 all 160 stars... (Im on 112 at the tme of this review...: P) Their are many additions to the DS version 
 of the game. FIrstly, and most importantly, the Graphics. They are superior to the Nintendo 64 
 graphics from any angle, even though the DS has not got texture filtering, and the N64 had. The 
 characters look... more like what their supposed to look like, and to be honest mario looked slightly 
 strange in the N64 version.
  
  Also their are now 4 playable characters in the game, (Despite rumours of waluigi as a playeable 
 character... HE'S NOT!, triforce in ocarina of time anyone?) These are as follows: Mario, Luigi, 
 Wario and Yoshi. Obviously the Italian Plumber is the best overall character, closely followed 
 by luigi. Their are also mini games that take advantage of the touch screen and are actually quite 
 fun. Well, most of them. Also, you can use the touch screen to move your character in the game, 
 but this is not very good, despite the games repetitive sign posts saying its easy. Now, onto the 
 problems... (It had to come eventually) . The biggest problem for me was the lack of Analog control. 
 The game was origanally made for analog control but the DS only has a D-Pad. This method of control 
 can be quite... frustrating at times, espcially the courses which require an extreme amount of maticulous 
 care and precision. But dont let this put you off Super MArio 64 DS, you get use to the controls 
 in time. Overall Super Mario 64 DS is a superb game, and is a must have title for the DS. It will 
 keep you playing for many hours, and frustrate you so much at times you feel ready to throw your 
 DS out of the window.... but thats what the makers of mario want you to feel... I think its called 
 Gamer's Frustration! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dorkclub
Rating: 8.5
Date: Dec 14, 2007 2:29 pm PT
Review:  Super Mario 64 is unquestionably one of the most groundbreaking games ever made. It revolutionized 
 3D gameplay and analog control, rewriting the rules of 3D game design and reintroducing the world 
 to its plump, Italian hero. Mario's newfound agility and precise handling made for a game where 
 it was fun just to move around  climb the trees, swim in the water, jump real high. While this 
 sense of wonder is no longer present today  the game's innovations have become so ubiquitous as 
 to be undetectable  the game is just as fun to play now as it was when the Nintendo 64 first launched. 
 Super Mario 64 DS manages to faithfully reproduce the N64's flagship title on a handheld console, 
 and includes a wealth of new content to boot. While this portable version doesn't control as well 
 as the original, the new levels, bosses, and gameplay features still firmly establish it as the 
 definitive version of the game.
  
  In making the jump to 3D, Super Mario 64 reimagined series conventions in an entirely new light, 
 coming up with clever solutions to transform tried-and-true 2D gameplay elements into something 
 that worked well in three dimensions. The overarching worlds that thematically bound stages together 
 in earlier Mario titles, for example, became massive levels that offered a variety of objectives 
 within their wide boundaries. The non-linear elements of Super Mario Bros. 3 and Super Mario World 
 remained, as these objectives could be completed in any order, each one rewarding you with power 
 stars which in turn opened up additional levels. Objectives ranged from series mainstays such as 
 boss battles and dangerous platforming aerobatics to newer challenges like foot races with friendly 
 NPCs and collection-based scavenger hunts. Regardless of the means, however, the end was always 
 a few minutes away, and these bite-size challenges work perfectly on a portable platform like the 
 DS.
  
  As just a straight port, Super Mario 64 DS would be an impressive feat in itself. All of the original 
 content remains intact, with a few slight tweaks here and there, and surprisingly, this DS iteration 
 also incorporates a great deal of new content. The total star count has increased to 150 from 120. 
 Each level now includes a new star, earned through a new mechanic that has you collecting five 
 silver stars  often beating them out of an enemy's grip  in order to make a power star appear. 
 Additionally, the game also sports a handful of new levels, though each is significantly smaller 
 and far less intricately designed or interesting than the game's original fifteen. Each new level, 
 however, also includes a new boss fight. Each boss battle is an exhilarating matchup against a 
 super-sized Mario enemy and offers a nice change of pace from the game's samey Bowser encounters. 
 Best of all, Super Mario 64 DS features significantly better graphics than the original, with clean, 
 detailed textures replacing the Nintendo 64's muddy, undefined blurs of color. The textures used 
 on the character models are especially impressive, providing additional depth beyond their simple 
 polygonal structures.
  
  In addition to Mario himself, Super Mario 64 DS also introduces three new playable characters: 
 Luigi, Wario, and Yoshi. You actually begin the game as Yoshi, introduced in a nice Easter egg 
 for anyone who obtained all 120 stars in the original, who must first save Mario in order to unlock 
 him as a playable character. Luigi and Wario are then unlocked later. Each character has their 
 own unique attributes and abilities; Luigi, for example, can float through the air with a spinning 
 helicopter jump while Wario can use his brawn to smash through large objects. Mario's original 
 abilities have also been divvied up among the newcomers: Mario keeps his patented winged cap, allowing 
 him to soar through the skies, but the vanish cap is now in the hands of Luigi and Wario now holds 
 the metal cap. Oh, and now Yoshi can breath fire.
  
  Thankfully, the game doesn't force you to micromanage your character selection or constantly switch 
 between character on the fly. In fact, you can only swap between characters in a new room on the 
 first floor of Peach's Castle. Because of this, most of the game's puzzles don't require you to 
 use specific characters to overcome specific obstacles, and when they do, the game is usually kind 
 enough to provide you with a character-transforming hat that allows you to play as the required 
 character until you exit the level (or take a pounding from an enemy) . You can therefore spend 
 most of your time playing as the character you like most, and because each one of them moves and 
 jumps differently, you'll definitely find yourself favoring one of them over the others. Though, 
 realistically, this character swapping mechanic only convolutes puzzles Mario could originally 
 overcome by himself, it does help to add some additional challenge and depth to stars that were 
 previously too easy to obtain.
  
  Unfortunately, the game's controls add much frustration and unintended difficulty to the experience, 
 which is particularly damning given the original Super Mario 64's high watermark for 3D analog 
 control. Ay, there's the rub. Despite throwing a multitude of different control schemes at you, 
 none of them works as a suitable substitute for the analog Nintendo 64 controller, which should 
 come as little surprise given the thing was designed from the ground up specifically for Super 
 Mario 64. The control schemes really boil down to one of three options, none of them ideal. The 
 first, and most useful option, maps your character's movement to the DS' D-pad, requiring you hold 
 down one of the face buttons in order to run. This option isn't particularly precise (though it 
 does offer a sort of nostalgic comfort) and leads to frustrating deaths from misaligned jumps and 
 unwelcome bursts of speed. The second and third options both involve using the DS' lower touchscreen 
 as a stand-in for an analog joystick, either by using the system's stylus or strapping the poorly 
 designed analog nub to your thumb. While both of these options provide true analog control, they 
 are ergonomic nightmares unsuitable for extended play sessions. Regardless of your control scheme, 
 unfortunately, Super Mario 64 DS simply doesn't control as precisely as the original, but, thankfully, 
 this only becomes a real problem when you reach the platforming-heavy later levels.
  
  The game also includes a few dozen minigames that are only superfluously tied to the main game. 
 By capturing rabbits loose in the halls of Princess Peach's castle, you can unlock minigames that 
 make heavy use of the DS' touchscreen. While there's little incentive to play them outside of beating 
 your own high scores, there's enough of them, and they're each suitably simple and addicting, to 
 act as a substantial distraction. Some are certainly better than others, including a Space Invaders-inspired 
 sling shot game that has you flinging bombs as parachuting enemies. If nothing else, these minigames 
 act as an interesting precursor to the sort of casual-friendly minigame collections that would 
 become so popular on the Wii. Additionally, the game also includes a multiplayer beat-em-up mode, 
 the inclusion of which feels like an after thought. Here, you collect stars and attack your enemies 
 to steal their stars. Honestly, there isn't much to it, and it isn't worth investigating except 
 as a curiosity.
  
  Serious control issues aside, the large quantity of new stuff packed into Super Mario 64 DS makes 
 it worth checking out for any Mario diehards. Even if you've never played the plumber's first 3D 
 outing, however, this DS version is the better of the two. The new playable characters, stars to 
 collect, and minigames append plenty of welcome new content to an already massive game. The graphics 
 are vastly improved over the first-generation Nintendo 64 title, regardless of how good you thought 
 it looked at the time, and while it may not be the fresh, eye-opening experience it was in 1996, 
 Super Mario 64 is still an excellent 3D platformer and one of the strongest games in one of gaming's 
 strongest series. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: themixta43
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 13, 2007 4:39 pm PT
Review:  Super Mario 64 DS is based off the original Super Mario 64 on the Nintendo 64 that came out eight 
 years prior to the DS port. The original was a revolutionary platform game that set the benchmark 
 for games to follow back in the late nineties, with only a few games actually successfully equalling 
 or topping this game in terms of greatness.
  Fast forward eight years later and you have Super Mario 64 DS, a game that catches most of what 
 the original made great and adds some new things as well. The story in 64 DS differs a little bit 
 from the original. It starts off as it did in the original; Princess Peach sends an invitation 
 to Mario, saying she has baked a cake for him. Instead of Mario going into the castle himself, 
 Luigi and Wario follow him this time around. After a while they don't come out and Lakitu informs 
 Yoshi that they have disappeared and it's his job to seek them out. This time around, it's your 
 job to save Mario, Luigi, Wario and Princess Peach on your own and eventually with your companions 
 as you save them. The game play is almost exact as the original was, except for a few new features 
 and different controls. Not having the Control stick to move Mario (or the others) around feels 
 very different and it having the D-Pad feels a little more fiddly and moving can be frustrating 
 some times. Other than this, the other buttons are implemented perfectly into the game and are 
 easy to memorize and utilize. The premise of the game is the same. There are paintings in which 
 you can travel into and explore their worlds, fifteen different worlds throughout the game in total. 
 Each world has eight stars to collect via different objectives in each level. These objectives 
 usually need individual characters to complete which gives the missions a fresh feel each time. 
 Throughout the whole game, there is one hundred and fifty stars to collect, opposed to the one 
 hundred and twenty in the original. You'll have a hard time getting every secret star located throughout 
 the game and never know where to look next. Like in the original, there are still ? Boxes found 
 throughout the levels, which grant each individual character their own power up. Yoshi uses a flower 
 to breath fire; Mario has his usual Wing Cap as well as a Flower, which makes him float, which 
 can be used in many levels for many different things. Luigi uses his cap to turn invisible, like 
 one of the caps in the original and Wario uses his cap to turn Metal, also like a cap in the original. 
 You can also find different coloured caps throughout the level, which correspond with the certain 
 character and let you transform into that certain character until you take damage again. This makes 
 it easier than having to switch people every time you find a new star that can only be gotten by 
 a certain character.
  
  Bosses are also present too in this game, with the likes of King Bo-bomb in the first level, and 
 a lot of others throughout the game. There is your usual Bowser fights which take you to the next 
 level in the castle but new this time are the boss fights when you have to unlock certain characters. 
 These new levels and bosses are really cool and probably the biggest thing that has been added; 
 next to the new characters them selves of course. Expect the likes of King Goomba and King Boo 
 people. The touch screen is only implemented as a map in the actual game but is used heavily in 
 the unlockable mini-games throughout the main quest. As the different characters, you can find 
 rabbits in the adventure mode which unlock certain mini-games for the rec room in the main menu. 
 The mini-games are a great addition to the main game, and provide great replay value. They range 
 from Betting games (such as card games, roulette and slots) , Puzzle games that can make you think, 
 arcade like games where you have to rack up points and just a whole lot of fun really. There is 
 a huge range of games that will keep you busy for a fair while.
  
  The graphics and sound in 64 DS are very alike to the N64 original, which is a good thing. Actually, 
 the sound may be almost identical (only with new voice tracks for the various characters and maybe 
 a few more additions) but the graphics have had a major overhaul. The actual environments in the 
 game look beautiful as usual and have had a few touch ups to make them look tip top. There is a 
 wide range of levels too which should appeal to everyone. Levels ranging from Fire, Sand, Ice, 
 Grassy areas and a huge range of beautiful environments. The main graphical overhaul came with 
 the character models though. Mario looks great, much better than he did in 64. Bowser also looks 
 even better, probably the best in the game in my opinion. Also Luigi, Wario and Yoshi look great 
 and the various enemies (especially the old and new bosses introduced) look even better.
  
  Overall, Super Mario 64 DS is worthy of carrying the Super Mario 64 title in it and it does it 
 good. Everything that was present in the original is found here. Sound may be a bit repetitive 
 and nothing new, the whole D-Pad movement may not feel as good and not that many new levels may 
 not appeal to a lot of players but trust me, this game is worth your money. One of the better titles 
 on the DS today, this game is truly a masterpiece. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 8bit7055
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 13, 2007 9:39 am PT
Review:  'Kay, so the game starts off pretty much the same, Peach invites Mario for a cake that she baked 
 herself, and Mario, not suprisingly accepts and visits via warp pipe. But before he can do anything 
 else, two MORE pipes pop up next to him and transport Wario and Luigi. We start off as Yoshi on 
 account of the fact that "Mario hasn't come back yet" So, as you have to play through the fifteen 
 courses and three bowser showdowns, you also have to run through a couple bonus courses to unlock 
 his friends Mario, Wario, and Luigi... Not in that order of course ;) So, why did the players keep 
 looking for all 120 power stars in the N64 version? It was so fun! Now, this time around, you've 
 got 150 power stars to rescue Princess Peach, Mario and Luigi and Wario. And defeat Bowser. 
  Besides, who doesn't love portable 3-D? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: firebirdboi06
Rating: 8.5
Date: Dec 12, 2007 10:55 pm PT
Review:  Super Mario 64 will always be remembered as the first truly great 3D platformer. That game hasn't 
 diminished in quality and this pocket version of the game shows it still has legs. 
  
  Gladly, Nintendo took the time to add a lot of extra stuff to an already great game. Namely, the 
 ability to play as Mario, Yoshi, Luigi, and Wario. The number of stars to collect has also been 
 increased to 150, and touch-heavy mini-games have been added and are unlockable by collecting rabbits 
 throughout the castle. 
  
  The mini-games themselves are, for the most part very inventive and make great use of the touch 
 screen. Luigi's set of mini-games however leave a lot to be desired. His set felt very uninspired 
 and I rarely go back to visit them. 
  
  Also added in for the game is a bit of Single-Card Download Play multiplayer. In it, you use any 
 of the four characters in the game to duke it out and try to get the star on a certain level. As 
 of this writing I have yet to be able to test it out for myself, so I can say nothing more on that 
 feature. 
  
  The original game on the 64 had a great control scheme with the use of the analog stick on the 
 64's controller. Clearly, the DS has no analog stick, so how has Nintendo translated that control? 
 By giving you two options: 1 (and my preferred method) , you navigate using the D-Pad. Or 2, you 
 use the touch screen as a "virtual analog stick". In theory it works, but it comes out as clunky 
 for me. 
  
  Graphically, the DS edition is superior to it's elder cousin. Textures look better until you get 
 close to them, but otherwise they look better and smoother on the DS. One comparison of Bowser 
 in both versions will show you this is true. 
  
  Sound is excellent on the DS, and the sound effects and music come through beautifully in surround 
 sound through the DS speakers or headphones. It's classic Mario through and through. 
  
  I believe the hand-held audience will enjoy this adventure a bit more than others, as the stars 
 create a sort of virtual turn of the page and there by a stopping point if one needs to turn their 
 attention elsewhere.
  
  Super Mario 64 DS is a great addition to any DS library and will create a heavy bit of nostalgia 
 for anyone who has played the original. For newcomers, this is an excellent way to be introduced 
 to the gameplay style that is a Super Mario title. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: St_muscat
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 25, 2009 12:25 am PT
Review:  Super Mario 64 may not be as good as it once was back when it first came out on the N64. But to 
 make up for this Nintendo have added a new power up for Mario , 3 new playable characters, 30 new 
 stars, 32 mini games, a multiplayer mode and the fact that it's now all portable makes this one 
 hell of game. The only downside to this is the price tag which now charges you the same amount 
 of money you would pay for a new game even though it's a 9 year old port (at time of release) . 
 
  
  Let me get this out of the way first off, if you have played this before and are wondering whether 
 or not it's worth buying again for the new extras I would say yes. SM64 has always been a game 
 you can play though many times and still enjoy it no matter how many you have played it (myself 
 I have between this games [DS only] 4 times 100%) plus the extras add at least another 5 hours 
 to game. Although I think it is far to say the extra 30 stars aren't really all that good unlike 
 the original these ones aren't really all that exciting or long might I add (for example collecting 
 5 silver stars) . But the 32 games on the other hand are surprisingly good offering a wide variety 
 of activates and great control schemes to go with them too. Although to some disappointment some 
 mini games repeat with only minor changes and they are strictly single player only. 
  
  The game also has a multiplayer which is good for about 5 mins with friends until you realize how 
 limited and meh it is. So don't except much if not really anything from it as it's pretty much 
 a useless feature just there for the hell of it, but hey at less now you can say you played it, 
 am I right? 
  
  The graphics in the game are not only some of the best on DS even today but they destroy the N64 
 version and basically improve upon it in all ways, plus being on a smaller screen high resolution 
 further cleans up the games few rough edges and textures. Making this a truly beautiful looking 
 DS game. The sound remains the same and that's all for the better as music was good to start off, 
 although it doesn't sound as good as the original version as it now comes out of the small DS speakers 
 instead of the television.
  
  Overall if you haven't played SM64 GET IT, but if you have it's up to you whether spending the 
 money is worth it to you, but as it stands it's the best version of the game so far, even if it's 
 9 yrs late to the party. I rated this game a 9.0 although I think it's more like a 9.1 or 9.2, 
 but I can't do that any more with the new rating system and 9.5 is too high so I guess 9.0 is the 
 best score for it. Thank you and I hoped you enjoyed my review.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: jacki04
Rating: 8.5
Date: Dec 11, 2007 10:50 am PT
Review:  Currently this game is still 30 at retail. But i decided to go for it because I think it will 
 be good. When I played it I was amazed at the game play. Everything seems so good. Even if your 
 are bored you can play about with the drawing tool at the title screen where you can mess about 
 with. The adventure was absolute fabulous. I never played the original Game but the adventure in 
 this seemed very addictive and fun just by collecting all these stars plus it was quite long as 
 well with lots of unlockables like characters, mini games... etc which made the game more interesting. 
 But to the downside of this game was, the multiplayer was too plain and only 1 game type which 
 made it too plain and boring. And the mini games didnt have multiplayer mode in it which i didnt 
 like. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Ccooldudecool
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 3, 2007 10:54 am PT
Review:  This was my first ever DS game and it rocked. I had alot of fun and heres some stuff about it.
 
  Graphics: Not really the best ever but it's still good. 8.5/10
  Sound: Pretty good can't complain. 9/10
  Music: The mario music and some others it's a good music 
 that won't get you annoyed by it. 9.5/10
  Multi-player: Without the DS game you can do DS download play in a race to see who gets the most 
 stars with both of you being yoshi, multi player is fun i don't know too much with the card but 
 without it's enjoyable. 8/10
  Playable Characters: Four playable characters starting with yoshi each character has special stats. 
 9/10
  Fighting: It's interesting fighting all these diffrent creatures and bosses the fighting is easy 
 to pick up same with the gameplay it self. 9.5/10
  Overall: This game is very fun and should last you alot of hours and is worth the play. 9 
::::::

::::::
UserName: meowcow22
Rating: 8.5
Date: Dec 1, 2007 12:40 pm PT
Review:  It was my first game on the DS and it really was worth the money 1 of my favourite DS games with 
 great levels that r fun. It's really great to be able to be Mario, Yoshi, Luigi & Wario all the same 
 game. especially an adventure game. I really enjoy them wet & dry world it's really clever as well 
 as hard and has sitting there for ages trying to get the stars. I've completed it only once as 
 I dont play it that much although it's one of my favourite games as i say. The Multiplayer really 
 smells it's boring and you wont to play a different game with your mates before long only about 
 10 minutes or less but the mini-games more than make up for that especially luigi's games where 
 it's casino games and has you betting and winning as much as you can. Fortunately you don't get 
 addicted. Then there's those great graphics! not really good in fact below average but an improvment 
 on the N64 version. And block graphics never did anyone harm especially if you like it like me. 
 8.5 from me. meowcow22 
::::::

::::::
UserName: diving_devil46
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 26, 2007 12:49 pm PT
Review:  There has been loads of reviews of this game, So I am just going to say it simply.
  
  The Bad:
  
  - The Controls do let you down from time to time.
  - The Camera can get annoying 
 but I personally didn't have many problems.
  - The Game's last few stars can be very challenging to get.
  - It's a remake of a 1997 game.
 
  
  The Good:
  
  - The game looks fantastic.
  - It is challenging if you want to finish the entire thing; easily 50 hours (took me about 65 hours 
 to get every star without a guide) .
  - Some of the mini games are suprisingly fun.
  - There are actually quite a few changes from the original so the game feels both nostelgic and 
 at the same time fresh.
  - an Inspiring platformer even by today's standards.
  
  Conclusion: IF you have a DS and have been thinking about this game for a while, and have just 
 played Galaxy and are looking for a similar experience, then look no further. I just went through 
 it again because of how fantastic Galaxy looks.
  
  Seriously, pick this game up for your ds. Once you get used to the controls you will love it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: EndorusBolero
Rating: 6.5
Date: Nov 25, 2007 6:21 pm PT
Review:  This game is very classic, but it's at least decent. Getting a little old for me. As new games 
 get thrown by the Nintendo company, this game seems to get older. It gets boring after you beat 
 the game, and get a good score on the mini-games. Still, its controls are pretty decent, and I 
 kind of like it. I like how you get to start with Yoshi. But the stupid nincompoops made him look 
 like a wimp compared to Mario, Luigi, and Wario. But then, everyone's a wimp compared to Wario. 
 Yoshi is by far my favorite, even though he can't break blocks, kill Boo's, or any of that stuff. 
 : ( They've put Yoshi underground when it comes to power. That's all I have to say. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ApplesAndCarmel
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 19, 2007 6:26 pm PT
Review:  Super Mario 64 was one of the best N64 games ever made, and now they have remade it with some changes 
 for the Nintendo DS. This is a great game for the DS, which at the time was probably in need of 
 a great game i am playing it few months after it was released but still a top game out of all the 
 DS games. With the remake they added a few changes, some good, some not so good. These changes 
 include making 4 playable characters now such as Mario obviously, Luigi, Wario and even Yoshi. 
 Each character has special abilities which make them unique to play with, and in some cases you 
 will need a certain one to get a star, such as Wario for Through the Jet Stream in Jolly Roger 
 Bay, or Yoshi for 8 red coins in Cool Cool Island ( might not be the correct name sorry.) This 
 feature is interesting, but in some cases gets annoying when you have to go back and switch because 
 you need a certain person to get a star that was possible in the N64 version. One thing that is 
 really cool, is getting the new characters and the mini bosses and levels you play to get them. 
 These add a cool new effect to the game to make it more than just the same old thing. The camera 
 angles are typical Mario ones, where some parts you can't even see your guy and it just becomes 
 a hassle but with everything else so good you don't really mind. Overall the game is really fun, 
 especially for the DS, and I'll make sure to get every star in it before i start up another game. 
 They remade a classic, into another classic, well done. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: theonlygamer
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 18, 2007 9:56 am PT
Review:  The game came out three years ago and still has some of the best graphics on the DS.
  The object of the game is to collect power stars to unlock doors in the Princess' castle and eventually 
 you'll unlock the door to where Bowser is.
  In the DS version of the game there are 150 power stars to collect, a substantial increase to the 
 number in the original N64 version.
  The controls are nice but can be a little wonky at times but overall they work quite well.
  There 
 are some camera issues in certain parts of the game sometimes you'll be inside a small area where 
 you could potentially fall off the level (and lose a life) but you cant see where you are because 
 the camera is looking at the outside of the wall that surrounds the area you're in.
  The levels are well designed and arent repetitive.
  The game doesnt really get harder as you 
 advance but the puzzles get a little trickier. Overall it's a great game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bobsnob789
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 10, 2007 4:21 pm PT
Review:  I never played the original Super Mario 64. When I first got my DS, this was my first game. This 
 game is still great 11 years later! The game begins when Mario goes to the castle to eat a cake 
 Peach baked for him. Mario, Luigi, and Wario and then trapped inside. After rescuing Mario, you 
 must collect all 120 stars, and then defeat Bowser. There are fifteen stages to collect stars in, 
 and you enter them by jumping into paintings. I played this game for so long, I eventually had 
 to stop to eat a burrito and get some sleep. The graphics and sound are improved from the 64 game. 
 This game has a long lifetime and even includes a four player mode, where you run around and collect 
 stars. The only thing that's not outstanding is the camera. You have to wrestle with it constantly 
 and it always leads to unwanted deaths. Do yourself a favor and pick this one up. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: randomrings
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 10, 2007 12:19 pm PT
Review:  Did you like Super Mario 64 for the Nintendo 64? If you did or didn't, it doesn't matter because 
 this remake rocks the Super Mario world (tried not to use the pun) forever. It's the same as the 
 original but with 3 other playable characters (you actually have to unlock everyone, including 
 Mario, as Yoshi and get Mario, Luigi, and Wario) each with their own abilities, dual screen mini-games, 
 and a one-pack versus mode. The game also has 25 new stars to collect, slightly updated visuals, 
 some taken out glitches, and 3 different control types. Sounds nice doesn't it? Actually some of 
 the control types are the reason I couldn't give this game the perfect score I wanted too. The 
 touch control was what the game was advertised for but I found it too difficult and straying from 
 the normal controls. I use the basic mode described on signs throughout the game, because the other 
 dual control type was the weirdest, and didn't make any sense to me. Whichever one you're more 
 comfortable with is fine but I think this has to be the main flaw in the game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mewmaster93
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 25, 2007 7:59 pm PT
Review:  When this first was announced people were happy to get a remake of the most popular N64 game. I'm 
 actually impressed. They not only put in all the stuff from the original game but also allowed you 
 to play as Luigi, Yoshi, and Wario. Put in 30 more stars more bosses and tons of minigames. The game 
 uses the touch screen to move and as a map. Which makes it easier to find stars. The biggest improvement 
 has to be the graphics which look amazing for a handheld game. This should be a game you should 
 get for your DS first. There is also a wireless multiplayer where you fight to get the most stars. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Linik0007
Rating: 7.5
Date: Oct 21, 2007 9:48 am PT
Review:  I'm a huge fan of the original mario 64, and I must say this game is no exeption, but there is 
 too much bad features to make it as good, for example the game is alot easier to get stars, bowser 
 is alot easier.
  
  now on to the good, you can play as yoshi luigi and wario, yoshi cannot punch but can use its tounge 
 to eat things, luigi can jump really high and do a spin move in the air, and wario is slow but 
 is very powerful, another nice addition is that there is 150 stars instead of 120, but all the 
 other stars are very easy to get, and you would probably remember how to get most of the mario 
 stars from mario 64, some of the stars have been changed for the diffrent characters, but they 
 are very easy to get.
  
  the graphics look very good though, best graphics for a DS game, although, I never liked bowsers 
 new look.
  
  I give mario 64DS a 7.5 for being a good game, but its way too easy for me. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tfres747
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 15, 2007 6:45 am PT
Review:  When Mario went from 2d to 3d on the nintendo 64 console, it was an amazing event, and nonwhatsoever 
 as a let down. The game has decent graphics for a game port, but its the gameplay that really gets 
 you addictive. The 3d gameplay is just fun and its just a highly enjoyable experience. If you have 
 a nintendo ds, I strongly recommend getting this game. It uses the touch screen capability of the 
 DS to really get even more out of the game then was possible on the nintendo 64, and the touch 
 screen can be really fun to play around with. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ShadowGroudon20
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 13, 2007 1:56 pm PT
Review:  Okay, as you know the Nintendo 64 version only has 120 stars to collect and it was only Mario that 
 can obtain these stars by himself. The Nintendo DS version has made a few minor upgrades to the 
 game by allowing three more characters to play in the game along with Mario. It still has the same 
 storyline and it has not changed since the original, but when Luigi or Wario speaks with the Toads, 
 they get a different response from them. There are 150 stars you can collect now instead of 120, 
 giving more sinister challenges and you have to use all of the characters to grab all of the stars 
 that Mario cannot get on his own. Catching rabbits (MIPS) is fun but getting keys to the Rec Room 
 is fun too. You get to play some exciting mini games such as the one with the slingshot and shooting 
 things at the Bob-Ombs and Lakitus before they destroy your flowers. The Nintendo DS made some 
 inspiring upgrades with the graphics along with the characters by giving the game more transcendent 
 perspectives and more realistic. This game may seem easy to other gamers but for me that is not 
 the case. It took me a couple of weeks to grab all 150 stars and let me tell you, this game is 
 not easy. The graphics and the music made me look from a different view; but overall this game 
 has met my requirements. It is an extraordinary game, I recommend others to play it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DynamoFan
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 4, 2007 3:11 pm PT
Review:  I'm going to tell you straight off. I love this game. It is arguably... sorry it is the best remake 
 ever made. You can play this game on the Wii, sure you can play this on your old N64, but DS version 
 is remarkable! New characters, and 3 different control options two using touch screen and of those 
 two one allows you to use the control pad also. The control pad setup is if your hands can't hold 
 a stylus and DS as well. Use touch screen with the stylus for innovative and precise controls. 
 Graphics look stunning on the DS, and having the ability to take it with you is great. Remember 
 those secret levels? They're back and even better than before. 2-4 player vs. mode should be done 
 at least once if you have friends who own a DS... that's right DS download play! You can even do 
 vs. mode practice in 1 player! Mini-games from the rec. room make great and fun use of the stylus. 
 Remember being interact with Mario's face? They have replaced that with touch and draw. Tap Mario 
 or Yoshi's head and you'll get to it. You can interact with pre-made drawings with the stylus, 
 or create your own ones to interact with. Only thing is you can't save them, which is the only 
 downside. While this game is fun and graphically impressive even now, the ability to take it with 
 you makes it a must have! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: zoradude
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 1, 2007 5:39 pm PT
Review:  Its no lie Super Mario 64 is one of the greatest games of all time. The title is constantly praised 
 for defining the 3D platform genre. Many games have mimicked it hoping for success but have failed 
 while some flourished, however nothing is as good as the original. To celebrate their success or 
 maybe just for fun Nintendo decided to release the title as a Nintendo DS launch game with new 
 content and updated graphics. It truly is an instant classic.
  
  From the get-go you can see how much the game has changed from the N64 version; it opens with Mario 
 jumping from his warp-pipe with Luigi and Wario shortly following him. The three are going to Peach's 
 castle for a wonderful cake! However these three portly plumbers (or whatever they do now) do not 
 return and the camera-wielding Lakitu grows concerned. The spiky creature heads to the top of the 
 castle and begs a sleeping Yoshi to find out what is going on. From there the player takes control 
 of not Mario, but Yoshi, and begins the game just as the original title from 1996.
  
  This is one of the many new additions included into the remake. After completing certain tasks 
 you may trek through the game as Yoshi, Mario, Luigi, and even the micro-game master Wario. You 
 can play as whoever you wish at any time though at certain boss stages you must play as Mario. 
 Anyone who has played through the original however knows these are scarce so you can rest easy 
 if you wish to obtain the 150 stars, 30 of which are new additions, with your favorite character. 
 Each character was also well thought out in terms of personality incorporated into the gameplay. 
 Luigi can jump higher than anyone but is physically weak, while Wario is completely the opposite. 
 Mario and Yoshi are close to the same in terms of statistics though they differ as Yoshi has his 
 classic swallow technique while Mario can punch and kick. The game attempts at times to force you 
 into using one of the specific character's advantages to clear a certain task but it is possible 
 to play through the entire game as your favorite.
  
  For those that have never played the original title, gameplay consists mostly of running and jumping. 
 There is close to no action in terms of fighting and no puzzles to keep your brain thinking. You 
 enter a stage most of the time by jumping into a painting on the wall, from here you find yourself 
 given various tasks such as collecting 8 red coins or jumping a series of platforms to reach the 
 top of a building. However there is a few different things such as flying and racing against a 
 Koopa to keep the game fresh. In essence the game's core is collection. This is shown many times 
 as you find yourself collecting 100 coins, 8 red coins, unlocking all the mini-games, and obtaining 
 all 150 stars. Even the game's main quest is put to the side when compared to playing the collection 
 game as you can clear the entire story without setting foot into many levels.
  
  As I said the main game plays the same as before with all the platform jumping and variety of levels, 
 however the controls are a bit hard to grow used to. Since the Nintendo DS does not have an analog 
 stick you have a few choices in terms of control. The game encourages using the touch screen to 
 move your character while doing weird taps and rubs for jumping and punching but this method is 
 almost impossible to use and very unreliable in long term as it is far to stiff. You will spend 
 the majority of the time controlling your character with the control pad and face buttons while 
 only using the touch screen to navigate through menus.
  
  Super Mario 64 DS also includes close to 25 mini-games. These are unlocked by finding certain objects 
 through the main game and all differ in terms of content. The games range from seeing if he/she 
 loves you by picking petals off a flower to slinging rocks at falling bob-ombs wishing death upon 
 your sprouting flowers. All the mini games do have one thing in common however and this is the 
 use of the touch screen. It serves a variety of options here which at the time really hinted at 
 what we would see in later titles.
  
  The last new addition is really a gimmick sadly. It is a multi-player option where you can face 
 off against your friends in arenas to bash each other up and collect as many stars as you can. 
 With a small selection of stages to play on and with no online capabilities you will grow tired 
 of it quickly, that is if you even try it once. Thankfully though only one DS owner needs the game 
 in order to play this with friends. You can host a game and wait for other DS owners in range to 
 join in the action, if you can actually find any that want to play with you.
  
  Super Mario 64 DS is truly an instant classic as it took one of the greatest games of all time 
 and built on it even more while cleaning up the quality of the sound and graphics. The only let 
 down is the somewhat stiff controls but this is only a small drawback as the new stars, playable 
 characters, and mini-games can keep you playing for a long time to come. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: painter015k
Rating: 10
Date: Sep 30, 2007 4:31 pm PT
Review:  Super Mario 64 was above all, the ultimate game EVER to hit the N64. Super Mario 64 DS is just 
 as good as it when it was first released in 1996 and still has the same classic feel to it. It's 
 a nostalgic memory of what could be Nintendo's best game ever! The graphics haven't changed much 
 and niether has the music which keeps this game as a pure classic. Throwing in a few new courses 
 and characters was an awesome idea! The game's more challenging that way, but it can be aggrivating 
 looking around the hat of the character you need to complete a task/puzzle. The camera hasn't changed 
 that much and it's pretty much as annoying as it was back in 1996, never cooperating as always. 
 The updated graphics are nailed, but you can still some polygons if you look close enough. As always, 
 the final level and boss are as difficlut as they were back when Mario 64 was first released. The 
 ultimate classic has been reborn on the DS and it's STILL as AWESOME!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Bowser_jrFan
Rating: 9.5
Date: Sep 27, 2007 10:06 am PT
Review:  This is a Great game. It is yet another Mario game. This time he goes into Peach's castle with 
 Luigi and Wario. Bowser gets them and takes them away. Yoshi wakes up and goes to find them. You 
 unlock Mario, Luigi and Wario. I wish Walugi was in it 2. The pic is the other bad thing. Not good 
 at all. The rest is great. I like Luigi best. I beat this game about a month ago. VERY hard. It 
 takes a LONG time to beat cos you have to get stars (150) I like the Nintendo 64 game beter. In 
 that one you only get to be Mario. It is harder because in the DS one you have a map. In the 64 
 one you do not. The pic is worse in the 64 but I like it beter. The people look weird. Bowser and 
 Koopas look like.... I do not rely know. Mario and Peach are easy to know. You can get alot of 
 cheats for it 2. But only with the atchion replay DS can you get cheats for the DS one. (I see 
 a lot of nintendo games have no cheats) . It is over all a very good game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: matisrock
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 21, 2007 1:08 pm PT
Review:  Although this game is a port of the N64 classic, it was entirely new to me. I wasn't quite sure 
 what to expect, but I found it to be quite addicting and challenging.
  
  The graphics are superb, the story is intriguing, and the game-play is fun, but it lacks good use 
 of the touch screen. Unless you really want to challenge yourself, you'll probably only use the 
 D-Pad to move around, but the stylus is an option, albeit a more difficult one. If you grow tired 
 of the game itself, the mini-games are a fun way to kill time, and some are actually very good.
 
  
  In closing, SM64DS is great simply because you can put it away from a few weeks and come back to 
 it easily. Unless you remember everything from the N64 version or you are one who likes to finish 
 entire games in one sitting, this will probably take a while to complete. Great control, great 
 graphics, great bang for your buck.
  
  Go get it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ponchados
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 16, 2007 11:51 pm PT
Review:  Quien lo pensaria que despues de ser un gran exito en el nintendo 64, llegaria al DS, en verdad 
 que juegazo, si perdia mucho tiempo en estarlo jugando en el 64 ahora lo pierdo jugandolo en la 
 nueva consola portatil, que bien po sacar titulos tan buenos como este, esperemos que no sea el 
 ultimo, ya que existen grandes juegos en el 64 y que ya se quedaron el el olvido por que ya no 
 tan facil los encuentras, este juego lo comence a jugar hace ya algunos a&ntilde; os ahora el que 
 lo juega en su consola portatil es mi hijo, el 64 ya le parace algo viejo, bueno cuestion de gustos, 
 y de generos. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: armand237
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 12, 2007 1:33 pm PT
Review:  Super Mario 64 ds is really one of the best mario games so far making mario 3d and portable is 
 something a person who loves mario games (like me) would make to spend there time having great 
 fun when there is nothing to do. Just to say this is so far the best mario game so far come on i 
 bet who ever reads this already has super mario 64 ds already if u dont go buy it because your 
 missing a lot of fun!!! Just cant believe they havent made a mario game for the play station it 
 would be great but its still very good. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: darthmario123
Rating: 8.7
Date: Sep 1, 2007 2:53 pm PT
Review:  This is a great remake of an AWESOME game! In 1996 Nintendo make a game that was so fun, years 
 later people would buy it again! In addition to Mario, you could control luigi, wario, even yoshi! 
 in the n64 version, there was 120 stars to collect, in the DS version there is 150! The main point 
 of the game has not changed, but the way to get some stars has. Another neat part of the game is 
 character hats. When you are walking in a level you may stumble onto mario's, luigi's, or wario's 
 hat. If you grab it, you will transform into that character! You will revert back to the previous 
 character if you take damage or attacked by an enemy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: connor510
Rating: 10
Date: Aug 30, 2007 11:12 am PT
Review:  I LOVE 
  I HAVE BOTH VERSIONS! THE N64 AND THE DS VERSION
  
  SCREW WHAT U SAY (PEOPLE WHO HATE IT ONLY)
 
  it rockes!
  
  WHY DO YOU HATE IT ANY WAY?
  IT IS VERY FUN AND YOU CAN PLAY 4 DIFFERENT CHARACTERZ!
  AND THERE IS NOW 30 EXTRA STAS TO FIND!!!!! 
 THAT MAKES UP TO 150 STARS TO GET!!!
  
  THIS IS ONE OF THE BEST GAMES EVER AND IT HAS MINI-GAMES YOU CANNOT GET ON NEW SUPER MARIO BROS 
 FOR DS LIKE:
  
  MARIO SLOTS
  PAIR-A-GONE AND ON
  AND MANY MORE!
  
  AND BRAND NEW ITEMS AND EVERY CHARACTER HAS THERE OWN SKILLS LIKE
  
  ITEMS:
  MUSHROOM: MAKE 
 PLAYER BIG AND INVINSIBILE
  RED ? BOX: SOME WILL HAVE SKILL ITEMS AND SOMES WILL BE TRAPS!
  SKILLS:
  MARIO:
  CAN WALL JUMP
  USE FLY FEATHER!
  PUFF UP INTO A BALLOON
  BUT MARIO CAN'T
 
  BREAK BLACK BRICKES
  AND MORE! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: boobush
Rating: 8.5
Date: Aug 29, 2007 4:22 pm PT
Review:  Super Mario 64 DS is a game that lets you play in Peach's castle, and take place in a remake of 
 a game from 1996.
  
  The good part about this game is that feeling when you use to play the classic Super Mario 64, 
 and if you didn't, now you're gonna have a good experience. There's 30 new stars to collect. Also 
 you get to play with three new characters (Yoshi, Luigi and Wario) plus Mario. To top that, you 
 can get the characters hats and transform into them. And the boss fights are very entertaining.
 
  
  The bad things about it are that you have to change characters sooner or later; as I mentioned, 
 you can get the cother character's hats, except Yoshi's so you may have to travel some distance 
 back and forth. Maybe you loved the experience of playing this game ten years ago as a kid like 
 yours truly, a teenager or an adult, nevertheless, like the original one, this game becomes boring 
 after some time, because it lacks a replay value. And although the boss fights are entertaining, 
 once you know how to beat 'em, they're way too easy.
  
  Well, this is my opinion and the best details and flaws I saw in the game. I didn't add the music 
 review, because it easy to imagine the sound capabilities of the Nintendo DS. At the end, this 
 game is playable, but it could be more entertaining to people who didn't play the original Super 
 Mario 64.
  
  Learning curve: 30 minutes to 1 hour
  
  Gameplay 8
  Graphics 8
  Sound and Music 9
  Value 9 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sonicdude123
Rating: 5.5
Date: Sep 19, 2007 8:24 am PT
Review:  This game sucks more than any ds game out here are the results
  
  Sound:2
  Gameplay:4
  Sound:1
  Tilt:0
  Value:6
  
  there you go mario ds is rubbish the worst ds game out the 
 gameplay sucks more than anything in the world (game world) nintendo's mascot sure is rubbish just 
 like his game.
  
  this game starts of with a green dinosour named yoshi
  then mario gets captured with his freinds mario's ment to be a hero
  then you need to free him 
 with yoshi collect ten stars wait yoshi hasnt been to space before.
  when you do that a ugly picture of mario comes up jump into it mario comes out stupid or what
 
  
  MAN THIS GAME SUCKS. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: missioncontrol1
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 23, 2007 1:36 pm PT
Review:  This is a very fun game. It's very addictive and once you start playing it you won't wonna put 
 it down till you beat the game. One great DS game just as good as the original!
  
  Gameplay- The gameplay is great. Theres mini games and a Multiplayer game where you battle your 
 friends to see who gets the most stars. Also theres the story mode with 3 slots to save where you 
 have to get 150 stars and save Princes Peach from Bowser. 10/10
  
  Graphics- The graphics are Amazing for a DS game! 10/10
  
  Sound- It has all the original music 
 from the Nintendo 64 version! 10/10
  
  If you have a DS then buy this game ASAP! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Hammerbrodude
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 21, 2007 5:29 pm PT
Review:  Well, he was hard for me anyway. Anyway, Super Mario 64 DS, is a good game I highly recommend, 
 but it has a somewhat strange name. The storyline starts kind of strange, but when doesn't it, 
 about how peach bakes a cake for mario and it turns out to be a trap. Luckily, Yoshi comes to the 
 rescue! The graphics are good, but... by todays standards, nothing great. Music is again good, 
 but not great. Still, it is a good game, with 18 levels, 20 if you include the waterfall and the 
 castle. And of course, 8 objectives in every level, including the secret star you get for getting 
 100 coins in a level. Easier said then done in some courses, the exception being whomp fortress, 
 my favorite level, in which case it is easier done then said. However, it is a great game, and 
 I recommend it.
  
  Oh, and Luigi is super-useful to have. Just FYI. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: liukang666
Rating: 7.5
Date: Aug 20, 2007 11:07 am PT
Review:  Remember when you first popped in Super Mario 64 and fainted in delight? Well, this feeling is 
 lightyears away. I'll admit, the subtle things like adding other playable characters and other 
 levels is cool, but when you boil right down to it, your still playing the same game, except with 
 MUCH stickier controls. Still, though, its fun... for about 15-20 stars. After that, it gets boring. 
 If you've never played Mario 64 before, you'll probably go farther than that, though. In all i'd 
 say the cute little things like playing as Yoshi and Wario and the mini-games are good, but they 
 couldn't bring back this ancient classic from the grave....... but nice try - - skalokos 
::::::

::::::
UserName: YeOldeBowser
Rating: 7.9
Date: Aug 14, 2007 7:36 am PT
Review:  Super Mario 64 - not only one of the best Mario games, but one of the best games overall. Finally, 
 it has arrived on the DS, but unfortunately it isn't all it's cracked up to be...
  
  The game begins with a story somewhat similar to Super Mario 64. Peach invites Mario, Luigi, and 
 Wario over to her castle for a party. But when they don't return for awhile, Yoshi decides to check 
 inside. Upon entering he discovers that they, along with Peach, have been locked into the castle 
 walls! When he finally unlocks Mario, Mario unlocks Luigi, and Luigi unlocks Wario, they discover 
 that this is the work of none other than Bowser! Time to give him te boot!
  
  Like any exceptional remake, the graphics have stepped up from the Nintendo 64 to the DS. they 
 are similar to the later-realeased New Super Mario Bros., and they are exceptional.
  
  But with any game comes some weaknesses. Super Mario 64 DS is no exception.
  
  Sound is occasionally 
 tinny and bad, with sounds such as Bowser's evil laugh. Although this isn't much of a worry, the 
 worst part of this game is its clunky, awkward control. The D-Pad is way harder to use than the 
 original Nintendo 64 joystick controller, making it sometimes extremely difficult to make certain 
 manuevers without falling into a bottomless pit or vat of lava. It's just a pain in the neck to 
 use and really brings down Gameplay.
  
  However, what brings more freshness is the ability to play as Mario, Luigi, Yoshi, or even Wario. 
 Each has different strengths and weaknesses essential to every mission. Many mindless minigames 
 await you, as well as 30 more Power Stars than the original, making this game still fun!
  
  Super Mario 64 DS's major weakness is its horrible control, but what makes up for it is its bigger 
 goals. There are 150 Power Stars in this game all over the place and you'll have to go though some 
 familiar and new challenges to get them. Although this game isn't the best in Mario's series, it's 
 good enough to recommend to most DS owners. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: horror_spooky
Rating: 8.2
Date: Aug 12, 2007 12:14 pm PT
Review:  Super Mario 64 DS is a reinvisioning of the original Super Mario 64 on the Nintendo 64. Obviously, 
 they had to add some new things into the game. For example, instead of just playing as Mario, you 
 get to play as Luigi, Wario, and Yoshi, also. Sadly, Yoshi is rarely useful and his special moves 
 are pretty worthless. Wario is too slow and makes the game kind of drag, but playing as Luigi and 
 Mario is a real treat.
  
  The object of the game is to go around the Mushroom Castle and complete tasks in painting worlds 
 to obtain Power Stars, which let you venture further into the castle. Some of these tasks are really 
 easy, while others are insanely hard, almost to the point of impossible due to the game's horrible 
 controls. Most of the time you'll find yourself walking very slowly because it's so easy to fall 
 off edges of things. Also, trying to do a certain maneuver in order to progess can be overly-challenging, 
 especially if it's something as simple as jumping over a gap ---which really shouldn't be that hard.
 
  
  Sadly, the main game doesn't take advantage of the DS's unique features like the stylus or the 
 microphone, but it does have a map on the bottom screen which shows you the location of the Power 
 Star you're after. Some people think this makes the game too easy, but I think it evens out the 
 annoying controls by giving you a better idea of what you're suppose to do so you don't have to 
 go through all of those cheap deaths. By talking to certain red bombs you can even see the Red 
 Coins on your map, also, which is very convenient.
  
  The mini-games, which all use the stylus, are very addicting. There are some original games in 
 these mini-games as well as classic games (like Bejeweled or Blackjack) with Mario-themed twists 
 on them. I doubt anyone could play the mini-games and be disappointed. However, to unlock more 
 mini-games you have to play through the game and catch special rabbits that are hopping around 
 the castle (on that note, I would like to say that, disappointingly, it's a lot easier to catch 
 the rabbits this time around) .
  
  There is a two-player versus mode that can read off of a single-card, but it really isn't that 
 fun. The matches are too short, there are only three levels, and the only thing you do is run around 
 the tiny map with the clunky control scheme and collect Power Stars so the other players beat the 
 crap out of you to get them. You can't even really customize the matches at all, which makes me 
 wonder why Nintendo even bothered with this two-player mode.
  
  There is also a drawing game you can do where you can draw whatever you want to as well as trace 
 Mario or Yoshi. I found this to actually be entertaining, especially since you can drag the picture 
 you want around and for pretty sweet effects.
  
  The graphics were pretty good for the DS, just falling short of perfect. Every thing seems to run 
 pretty smoothly and all the characters look great. I was very impressed with the graphics for Super 
 Mario 64 DS.
  
  The soundtrack is amazing and you'll get the tunes stuck in your head easily.
  
  Super Mario 
 64 DS is a great game that just has some control flaws. These issues could easily be fixed by possibly 
 making an analog-adapter for the DS (please, Nintendo!) or thinking of some other way to control 
 your character (however, you can choose to use the stylus ---or a finger ---to move your character 
 around, but I found this a lot harder then the default control scheme) . The mini-games were great, 
 and it would be awesome for future Mario installments to feature more great and original mini-games 
 that take advantage of the DS's unique abilities. Also, it would be great if the main game had 
 some DS-specific controls, also (besides just the option to move around) . Also, if the characters 
 of Wario and Yoshi were fixed to make them more accessible, that would certainly make the game 
 much more enjoyable for anyone to pick it up and play. If the two-player was changed to something 
 completely different, like some sort of co-op mode, that would be extremely entertaining and would 
 garner higher marks. The grahpics were pretty great, but they could've been better. The sound was 
 perfect and nothing should be changed in that department.
  
  All in all, Super Mario 64 DS is a great game with just a few flaws that any gamer should be able 
 to overlook. Here's hoping for another installment. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ChrissieGirl
Rating: 8.2
Date: Aug 8, 2007 1:42 am PT
Review:  Super Mario 64 was a brilliant game that was released on the Nintendo 64 back in 1996, around ten 
 years ago now. Super Mario 64 DS, as you might have guessed, is a remake of that game for the Nintendo 
 DS. The question is; does it live up to the original? Yes. Is it BETTER than the original? In my 
 personal opinion, no, I personally believe the original is better. However, it doesn't stop this 
 game from being a really good remake.
  
  For those who have played the original version, you'll most likely know what to expect in terms 
 of the storyline and levels you get to play. For those who don't, the general storyline is that 
 Mario receives a letter from Peach, asking him to come to the castle, as she has baked him a cake. 
 Mario arrives at the castle with Luigi and Wario (unlike the original where it was just Mario alone) , 
 and they go inside. They do not return and Yoshi goes in after them, to learn that Bowser has kidnapped 
 them and the Princess, and is holding them all prisoner. As I said before, this game is a remake, 
 not a port, so there is enough difference so the game feels fresher than before. You not only get 
 to play as Mario, but you also get to play as Yoshi, Luigi and Wario; three of them need to be 
 unlocked. What's more, there are more Stars to collect in this game than what there was in the 
 original; there are now 150 Stars in comparison to the original's 120.
  
  Gameplay-wise, it plays rather well, though considering this is the DS, there is no analog stick 
 to control the characters with, but a directional pad. What's more, you don't automatically run 
 around like you do in the original; you have to hold down the Y button to speed your character 
 up, otherwise you'll end up walking around. There is the option to move around using the stylus, 
 but I found that it complicated my playing of the game.
  
  To bulk out the package, there are a total of 36 minigames which take advantage of the touch screen, 
 which you can unlock by catching rabbits in the main adventure; they have the keys which wil enable 
 you to unlock the minigames. What's more, there is a multiplayer mode, and you only need one cart 
 to play the game with friends. The multiplayer game features you running around levels collecting 
 Stars and coins; the player with the most Stars at the end of the time limit wins.
  
  Graphically, the game looks better than the original, so it looks really good for a DS game, and 
 quite detailed.
  
  Sound-wise, the music matches the original music quite well, the sound effects are brilliant, and 
 the voice-acting, while sometimes tinny, is funny and good as always.
  
  With 150 Stars in this game to collect in the main adventure, 36 minigames, and a great multiplayer, 
 there's plenty to do. With that being said, Super Mario 64 DS is definitely worth the money. It's 
 not the perfect game; as I mentioned before, lack of an analog stick makes it a little uncomfortable 
 sometimes, but for the most part, this is one game for the DS that I would definitely recommend. 
 If you loved the original, you might like this. If you like Mario, you might like this. If you 
 like platformers, you might like this. Overall, this game is worth it and I truly do recommend 
 it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mike0015
Rating: 9.8
Date: Aug 7, 2007 6:32 pm PT
Review:  This Is The Best Mario Game So Far. The Mario series could not have gotten any better until this 
 classic remake. Longer than the first the game has 30 extra levels to complete. Not to mention 
 better graphics, 3 unlock able characters. 150 levels and just all out fun. you'll be playing for 
 hours. when you get to the 3rd bowser fight (the end of the story) you will notice that it isn't 
 that much harder than the other fights. It really isn't much of a challenge either. it is a great 
 game challenging or not. there's really only one word to describe it. FUN FUN FUN FUN FUN FUN FUN 
 FUN FUN ! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Simpsons2102
Rating: 9.6
Date: Aug 5, 2007 2:43 pm PT
Review:  Super mario 64 was remade for the ds with new boards, characters, and minigames. This is easily 
 a most own game for the ds. You can play as Yoshi, Mario, Luigi, and Wario as your own the quest 
 to defeat bowser and save princess peach. This is one of the most funnest game for the ds, if u 
 have the money then you should definietly get this game! In the game u can run around and catch 
 rabbits. When u catch them they will u give u a key to play more minigames. This game is definietly 
 a great remake a terrific game from the nintendo 64 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Twilight_King85
Rating: 9.3
Date: Aug 3, 2007 8:17 pm PT
Review:  This game is really fun its the best mario game ever made and now its on the ds so it has better 
 graphics and is portable! This game is really fun i dont like mario but i tried this game and i 
 loved it its the only one i luv 2 this game is cool cause u can be yoshi i love yoshi!! hes my 3rd 
 fave. character behind the master cheif and LInk (who is number 1) but anyway this game is pretty 
 easy but can get annoying at time to time the levals are pretty fun and the bomb boss is cool 
::::::

::::::
UserName: anihimrox222
Rating: 9.7
Date: Aug 3, 2007 3:10 pm PT
Review:  when the origanal super mario 64 came out for the nintendo 64 it was awesome! 120 stars- didnt 
 make u stop! but then, nintendo updated the game and released it as the 1st ever nintendo ds game. 
 when i bought it, it was AWESOMER!!!! u get to play as mario, but u get to play as yoshi, luigi 
 and wario!! theres 30 more stars than the origanal- making it 150 stars! the fun never stops when 
 u play this game!! plus, they updated the looks of the characters!! mario &amp; bowser looks like 
 the graphics in new super mario bros!!! if i were u, GET THIS GAME!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SM-X
Rating: 8.5
Date: Aug 19, 2007 6:27 pm PT
Review:  Even after ten years of age, Nintendo manages to recapture Super Mario 64 in an entirely new light. 
 Rereleasing the game on the DS may have actually been for the better.
  
  Having played both this and the original, I can say, with full certainty, that this is much better. 
 The graphics and textures have been kicked up to DS standards, and the Mushroom Castle feels as 
 alive as ever. From the war-torn Bob-omb Battlefield to the soaring skies of the Rainbow Cruise, 
 it's a vivid and entertaining world that's sure to captivate the imaginations of its players.
 
  
  The sounds have been altered from their original state, if not for the better. The music, sound 
 effects, and character grunts are top-notch quality on the DS.
  
  Adding new gameplay elements to the original, Mario 64 (DS) introduces Yoshi, Luigi, and Wario 
 as playable characters, and player-specific elements that add new possibilities to the already-fresh 
 levels. It even introduces a multiplayer option to the game, which, despite being a bit bland, 
 rounds out the package quite nicely. The controls are also easy to pick up, and nicely varied. 
 You can rely entirely on the touch screen, or do things the old-fashioned way with the D-Pad and 
 Button scheme.
  
  Even if you've played the original, you can still enjoy this game. With thirty new stars to hunt 
 for, three more playable characters, and a new multiplayer mode, this makes for a nice expansion 
 to the original, and a top-tier launch title for the DS.
  
  If you haven't played this game already, I suggest you grab an Andrew Jackson and head to your 
 nearest retailer. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Hiccupski
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jul 28, 2007 9:55 pm PT
Review:  The original super mario 64 was the best game on the n64, so when i saw it proted on the ds i knew 
 i had to get it. Off the bat the graphics looked better than the original, but i got an unexpected 
 twist. I started off as yoshi! At first i did not like this addition, but i soon loved the idea. 
 You can switch between characters and they all have their own unique abilities.
  
  Good things:
  1.- As said above, the multi character gameplay
  2.- Looks and sounds great, 
 and gameplay is as good as before
  3.- Minigames are very fun
  
  Bad things:
  1.- After all it is only a port
  2.- I wasnt too fond of the toch screen boss battles, but they 
 werent too bad.
  
  Super mario 64 ds is a great game, and will keep you playing again and again. A must have for any 
 ds owner. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Hellmonkey012
Rating: 9.9
Date: Jul 26, 2007 4:13 pm PT
Review:  Mario 64 is without a doubt one of the second funnest games ever. ( Mario 64 and LoZ: Ocarina of 
 Time. ) Anyway this game is just like the original except that there are more stars, more characters, better 
 graphics, mini-games and more. This game is a remake of the original but for the DS. King Bowser 
 has taken over the castle asn you have to get back the 150 power stars to regain the castles power. 
 That's right. 150 power stars. 30 more than the original. In this game not only can you play as 
 mario, but you can also play as Yoshi, Luigi, and Wario.
  
  THE GOOD: Better graphics. More characters. Mini-games to play when you get bored. 150 power stars 
 ( I bought this game over two years ago and I still only have 145 stars) . It's a remake of one 
 of the best games ever.
  
  THE BAD: Not much but for some reason it's not as good as the original. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DSreviewer
Rating: 7.8
Date: Jul 31, 2007 12:17 am PT
Review:  Gameplay: 9/10
  This game plays suprisingly well without a joystick. I thought it would be clunky, but it actually 
 felt really good after getting used to the d-pad. The first time I flicked on my DS with this game 
 in it, i was struck with a lightning bolt of memories. This isn't just a port of the N64 classic 
 though, this has enough stuff thrown in to make it feel almost like a different game. The one thing 
 I felt they should have left out is the multiplayer option. It's the only that really hurt gameplay. 
 I was really excited to play some co-op with my firends on this game, but all they had was some 
 unthoughtful collect the stars game. But they did add a few different characters in that have their 
 own respective abilities, which kind of makes up for the lackluster multiplayer. There are also 
 a bunch of extra levels thrown in, which is really a good reason to purchase this version if you 
 already have the N64 one. All in all this game is just fun, and the new features add another dimension 
 to the gameplay. Graphics: 8/10
  The N64 graphics have had a complete overhaul in the DS version of mario 64. It may not seem like 
 they changed, but if you compare the games side by side, the difference is outstanding. This game 
 looks really good on the DS overall.
  
  Sound: 8/10
  The music in this game is really catchy, and you might find yourself humming the soundtrack after 
 extended play. These songs don't really get old, and if you played the N64 version, you will once 
 again be smashed in the head with a nostalgia brick. With nostalgia aside, the songs are generally 
 creative and upbeat. The sound effects and music shouldn't have been recycled, because I would 
 have loved to hear some remixes. Value: 7/10
  This game will last you a large sum of minutes, but once you have sucked those minutes dry, your 
 pretty much done with the game. There really isn't much to do after you complete the game except 
 play uneventful minigames, which really aren't that fun. Reviewer's Tilt: 7/10
  I recommend this game to both people who have played the original and people who haven't. There's 
 enough nostalgic value in this game to satisfy the original owners, as well as a slew of new features 
 on top of that. And for new players to this game, it is a really fun game which is something you 
 at least have to play once in your life.
  
  -Joe B. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: princeram
Rating: 10
Date: Jul 23, 2007 8:52 am PT
Review:  Super mario 64 DS strikes again But this time on DS~!
  
  This game has three features, Multi player, where you challenge a friend to see who gets the most 
 stars. then we have Adventure mode where u have three saving spots and you try to get peach back 
 from bowser and you try to get all 150 stars. Next is the Rec Room where you get Mini games from 
 getting bunnies to give you the key. So this is a game i would suggest to anyone who has a DS lite 
 or DS. Its just a great game all around!!!!!!!!
  
  -The one and only Princeram That Tells you everything 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tommyvercetti1
Rating: 2.2
Date: Jul 20, 2007 1:40 pm PT
Review:  I wanted this game in thinking Wow, Super Mario 64, but all-new! So I got it and I regret it. It 
 is a remake of Super Mario 64 for N64, and I do not feel it should be called remake, more like 
 enhanced port.
  
  Graphics: Graphics are good, however the textures make me want to throw up, they are worse than 
 Mario Kart DS, and, dare I say it, worse than Asphalt Urban. Levels: Here is where SM64DS hits 
 the bottomless pit of doom. The levels are basically the same as SM64, with 30 more stars hidden 
 in quick rehashes of the SM64 levels. I deem this to be a waste if you own SM64. The third area 
 of Course 1 is too easy. You must find 5 silver stars and, THE MAP TELLS YOU WHERE THEY ARE. This 
 totally takes the difficulty out of these find the stars or coins level types. There are no real 
 new things in it at all, apart from different level objectives and different textures that suck. 
 Sound: Nearly every sound is from SM64, with no new sounds at all really. The music tracks are 
 EXACT ports of the original SM64 tracks, not enhanced, remixed, but maybe of a lower quality.
 
  
  Touch screen usage: NONE WHATSOEVER. There is one use in the menu, and one ingame, which sucks, 
 as it is terrible to control with the touch screen.
  
  Bonuses: There are a lot of minigames, nearly all of which appear in New Super Mario, WHICH I OWN, 
 which means trying to catch the rabbits that give you the games is a waste of time.
  
  Well I could have got a working Super Smash Bros. Melee (the one I bought never worked) if I waited, 
 but I thought Ooh I've been wanting that game, I'll get it! and wasted the money I could have bought 
 SSBM with, and that day will always spark the burning enragement I hold for this game. And, if 
 you are new to the game, you will hate trying to learn how to play, as Yoshi can only do a handful 
 of what the others (who are Luigi, Mario and Wario) are able to do. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ITS_A_ME_MARIO2
Rating: 6.8
Date: Jul 16, 2007 9:56 am PT
Review:  This game is basically a direct port of the N64 game except they make a few additions. They add 
 in 30 new stars. Sounds good right? Well really it's not, it's just repetative extra 30 stars. 
 You have to collect a few silver keys and a star will appear. We already had the red coins. The 
 other thing is just doing something and then running to get a star that's in a cage before time 
 runs out. The extra 30 stars are very cheasy and couldn't have taken nintendo to much time. The 
 other thing is that the controlls are abosolutly horible. Almost everyone used the directional 
 pad and not the touch screen. That would have been fine if they laid a few things out differently. 
 They make you hold down the X button to run and after doing that for a minute or 2, it can begin 
 to really hurt your hands. I also remember that there were akward controlls to be long jumping. 
 That's all I got to say for the bad, now here's the good. The graphics are falt out amazing, simple 
 as that. The minigames that nintendo has added in are very addictive. They were a great thing to 
 add in.
  
  Overall, this game is basically a port of the original game, I'd say don't judge the original off 
 of this but it's your choice, do whatever. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: theman64
Rating: 9
Date: Jul 7, 2007 2:48 pm PT
Review:  Super Mario 64 DS is the follow-up to Super Mario 64, a game that launched the Nintendo 64 way 
 back in 1996. As it turns out, The DS version does a great job of living up to expectations and 
 delivers a fun adventure on the Nintendo DS. For those of you who've played the original classic, 
 you'll pretty much know what to expect from this title. However, this game isn't an exact replica 
 of the original; it has four playable characters (Mario, Luigi, Wario and Yoshi) , three of which 
 need to be unlocked. It also contains 150 Power Stars rather than 120, like in the original. This 
 version also includes 36 touch-controlled minigames, which can be unlocked by playing through the 
 main adventure. Also, the touch screen serves as a map, while your character moves on the top screen. 
 Finally, Super Mario 64 DS has a multiplayer mode, as opposed to the original. I haven't actually 
 tried to play with friends, but I do know that the game supports single-cart play, meaning you 
 only need one copy of the game for multiplayer options.
  
  Gameplay wise, I really did'nt have many problems with the controls. There is an option to play 
 using the stylus, but really, there is no use in playing this way, considering the fact that it 
 totally complicates an otherwise simple control scheme. It plays a lot like the original, but the 
 only major downfall is that there is no analog stick, but a directional pad instead. This hurts 
 the game's control's quite a bit, but not enough to make it unplayable. It still works pretty well. 
 The game really isn't all that challenging, but as with the original, some Power Stars are extremely 
 frustratingly difficult to collect, but not impossible. Collecting every last Power Star may be 
 long, but it's fun the whole time and extremely rewarding. Despite the directional pad, Super Mario 
 64 DS still plays great.
  
  The game's graphics are top notch. It's hard to believe how well Super Mario 64 was ported to a 
 handheld; the visuals are simply stunning on the small screens. The game really can't look much 
 better than this.
  
  As far as sound goes, Super Mario 64 DS delivers on all fronts. Great sound effects combined with 
 funny voice acting and brilliant music make this category an obvious 10.
  
  Super Mario 64 DS will probably keep you busy for a long time. 150 Power Stars to collect, and 
 it's great fun the whole time. Add 36 minigames and a multiplayer mode, and you're getting a whole 
 lot for what you're paying for. Super Mario 64 DS is a quality product, no matter how you look 
 at it.
  
  Overall, Super Mario 64 DS is a showpiece for the Nintendo DS hardware. It's a superb launch title 
 that delivers in pretty much every aspect you can think of. Despite the lack of an analog stick, 
 Super Mario 64 DS deserves to be in any Nintendo DS owner's collection. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jack_sparrow_28
Rating: 8.7
Date: Jul 6, 2007 9:17 pm PT
Review:  I got Super Mario 64 DS because I never had the original, but I'm impressed with this. The story 
 is apparently the same, except at the beginning, Wario, Mario, and Luigi all go into the castle, 
 and don't come out. Yoshi is asleep on the castle roof, and he is awoken by the weird camera dude 
 on the cloud. He then sets off to help.
  
  The game is just fun. You can play by using the directional buttons, or using the stylus on the 
 map below, but I strongly prefer the directional button method. It just seems to work better. Through 
 the game, you will unlock Mario, Luigi, and Wario to play as, each who have their own strengths 
 and weaknesses, and to get all the stars, you'll need all of them. The graphics are brilliant for 
 a DS game, with all the levels being recreated faithfully. The sound is... ok, but you can tell 
 a lot of sounds have been reused from the original, but this is ok, and if you notice, it doesn't 
 take away from the game at all. The game is very long, and apparently has added stars to collect, 
 which is great in my opinion.
  
  This is a great DS game and really shows off what the system can do. It's great for anyone who 
 has an already extensive collection, or someone who is getting their first DS game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: vatterott
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 12, 2008 4:00 pm PT
Review:  About 10 years ago, Super Mario 64 came out with the just-launched N64. It was amazing, then. Around 
 7 years later (after the GBC and GBA) the new 'DS' was announced. Within announcement and launch 
 of the DS, a remake of Super Mario 64 was... announced I guess. So, here it is. Despite lots of 
 remakes, including movies, songs, and such, that are bad, Super Mario 64 DS really came through. 
 Even for a launch title (using the system's features...) , this is a top game for the DS. Here's 
 why: With the opening sequence of Mario, Luigi, and Wario running around, you can see that the 
 graphics have been revamped to meet that time's standards, and push portable gaming to another 
 level. As soon as the sequence is over, you start as Yoshi. Mario & his friends are trapped in 
 the castle, and Yoshi is the only one who can save them. It is pretty loose from there. So, as 
 the graphics are redone, how do they look? Great. I think that they are possibly the best graphics 
 on the system, up there with Mario Kart and New Super Mario Brothers. Just to mention this, I have 
 a DS Lite, so colors may be more vibrant and vivid. I just love the Mario style of design, e. g. 
 the cartoonish yet real enough to identify what it is. The graphics really improved in the original, 
 especially the Mario touch. All the figures look great, except one thing. Trees have just one face 
 and rotate with the camera, which makes me think "Why didn't they just make a geometrical tree?". 
 That's the only negative I see. The graphics are nearly perfect. Here is a video I made, (low quality 
 camera) not really showing graphics, but showing an unlockable. The music is a joke, and you'll 
 love it. Totally! [video=IyRhlWP75b4Euj_c] Onward with the review. The music is just awesome. It 
 sets the mood for each level, whether it's a boss fight or messing around. I really like the.... sounds 
 that Mario and companions make, like the "Wowho!!!" when he is flying or in the middle of a jump. 
 A goomba's steps are great too, they have that 'Mario style' I mentioned earlier. It all sounds 
 realistic, but with cartoonish touches that make it really fun. Even with 150 stars, the value 
 is good, but not amazingly great. Only 1 play through is worthwhile, because once you figure out 
 the puzzles, it as easy as pie. Another difficulty setting would have been nice. There are 20-30 
 new stars, and a bunch of mini games, so it is better than the original (the value, duh!) . Like 
 I said, a change of difficulty would have added a lot. The gameplay doesn't really have any bad 
 things, except that it's pretty easy. The puzzles are very creative, especially one star where 
 you have to knock a large piece of wood over, and you can cross a gap (or the sky!) . The mini games 
 don't add much unless you have nothing else to do, or have 3 friends over. Enemies are pretty fun 
 to.... make disappear (do you kill them or not?) and use to your advantage. The controls really 
 give you good movement, and you can rotate the camera to wherever you wish. It even automatically 
 rotates behind the character's back, making things easier and harder in some situations. Super 
 Mario 64 DS is a great remake of an amazing game. It really shows. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Bender_N64
Rating: 9
Date: Jul 2, 2007 12:16 am PT
Review:  If you loved this game as a Nintendo 64 game, you'll adore this updated blast from the past. Everything 
 is better, graphics, sound, you name it. More charectars, a lot of mini-games, more stars, more 
 gameplay.
  
  Gameplay is excellent, nothing is extremely hard to do and most moves will be memorized quickly. 
 It responds excellently so you'll never have trouble doing a move or using your Flower Power move. 
 The added new abilitys such as Yoshi's fire breath work nicely into the gameplay, by allowing some 
 new ways to kill enemys. All in all gameplay is great.
  
  Graphics are also very nice and updated. It's the same thing you remembered from the Nintendo 64 
 except probably more detailed. The new characters, Luigi and Wario, all have the similiar looks 
 to Mario like it should be. Simply put, graphics are just plain better then the Nintendo 64, like 
 it should be anyways.
  
  Sound is great, all the tunes you remember are still here, possibly better too. The music always 
 stays on mood setting and never becomes a annoyance. The charectars sound nice, and Peach's voice 
 seems a little better then in the last.
  
  The replay value is only about a 8, only because there isn't much meaning going back to places 
 if you unlock every single thing.
  
  Ok, to end this, I highly reccomend this for any DS user that hasn't bought it. You won't be disappointed. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: air_wolf_cubed
Rating: 8.3
Date: Jun 29, 2007 1:18 am PT
Review:  Story: Please come to the Castle. Ive Baked a cake for you. Yours Truly -- Princess Toadstool, 
 Peach At the invitation of Princess Peach, Mario accompanied by party crashers Luigi and Wario, 
 enter the Mushroom Castle.
  But when the three dont come out of the castle for a long time, Yoshi decides to check up on them.
 
  Upon entering the castle, Yoshi discovers that no one is there. According to Toad, Bowser has 
 stolen the Power Stars guarding the castle and locked Princess Peach into the walls and paintings. 
 Maybe Mario and his friends have been captured in the paintings, too!
  Now its up to Yoshi to rescue Princess Peach , Mario, Luigi, and Wario from the castles paintings 
 and walls!
  -I really like this plot and it is very similar to the original SM64, but it is slightly better 
 in the fact that there is Wario, Luigi, and Yoshi, too. I think its a great plot, but I have seen 
 better ones such as the plot for Super Mario Sunshine and a few others that I think are excellent 
 and almost perfect! It is still a really good story and I would rank it in my top 20!!!
  PLOT/STORY RATING: 8.9/10
  
  Game Play: The way you play the game and what you have to do is 
 very simple and can be explained in 3 little steps:
  1) OPEN DOORS BY GETTING TARS AND KEYS-
  Open doors by either getting the number of power stars 
 specified on the door or finding a key if the door has a keyhole.
  2) GO INTO PAINTINGS AND WALLS-
  The main place to get stars is inside the paintings and walls 
 throughout the castle. Each painting and/or wall leads to a specific level. There are 7 Course 
 Stars plus one 100 coins star in each painting. There are 15 levels:
  1) Bomb-Omb Battlefield
  2) Whomps Fortress
  3) Jolly Roger Bay
  4) Cool, Cool Mountain
  5) Big 
 Boos Haunt
  6) Hazy Maze cave
  7) Lethal Lava Land
  8) Shifting Sand Land
  9) Dire, Dire Docks
  10) Snowmans Land
  11) Wet-Dry World
  12) Tall, Tall Mountain
  13) Tiny-Huge 
 Island
  14) Tick Tock Clock
  15) Rainbow Ride
  There is also Peaches Castle, which is the main place you start in, and 300 secret stars are hidden 
 all around it.
  3) GET POWER STARS-
  Get a power star by completing a course. After you get a power star, you will be returned to the 
 main hall of Peachs Castle. The more stars you got, the more levels you can get to! There are 
 150 Power stars in all.
  REPEAT THE 3 ABOVE STEPS TO CONTINUE THROUGH THE GAME!!!
  
  As you may already know, you can play as four characters in SM64 DS. They are Mario, Yoshi, Luigi, 
 and Wario! To get each character, you must get a certain number of stars and find and beat a special 
 boss (below) . Each character is different and has special abilities, you may switch characters in 
 the room in front of Peaches Play room by going into there respective doors. You can also switch 
 them by finding their respective hat located somewhere in each level. If you get hurt though, you 
 lose your hat and go back to the original player you were using. If you are Mario, you may also 
 get a flight hat hidden in some boxes; it allows you to fly!
  There are some bosses that you must beat to unlock Mario, Luigi, and Wario.
  
  user posted 
 image
  ^Goomboss, a boss allows you to get Mario if you beat her!
  
  There are some certain items in Super Mario 64 DS!!!
  -Yellow Coin - Heals one life piece.
 
  -Red Coin - Equals two yellow coins, you must get 8 of them in some levels to get a star.
  -Blue Coin - Equals five yellow coins.
  -Spinning Heart - Heals you depending on how fast you 
 run through it.
  -Koopa Shell - Jump on and ride across the course, on water, land, and ice.
  -1-up Mushroom - 
 Gives you one life.
  -Mushroom - Makes you huge for a short period of time.
  -! Up Block - Contains a yellow coin, mushroom, 1-up mushroom, or koopa shell.
  -Cannon - Aim, 
 and Shoot yourself to a far off place.
  OPINION: I really like the game-play and think it is really good and is probably the best I have 
 ever seen. Everything Just fits and it seems perfect to me!
  
  GAME-PLAY RATING: 10/10
  
  user posted image
  ^A Boss on top of Whomp's Fortress
  
  Graphics: The graphics are REALLY 
 good. Mainly because the DS graphics are about the same as a Nintendo 64... or maybe even better! 
 The games graphics are definitely better than the original, Super Mario 64 for the Nintendo 64. 
 It isnt close to as good as Super Mario Sunshine though which has suburb graphics on the Nintendo 
 Gamecube!!!
  The game really details up the characters, especially the little bad-guys and bosses which make 
 or break a game. The characters are so much better than almost every other Mario game. Take the 
 Goombas for example. In the original they face the screen and walk side ways, they resemble a brown 
 crab. In SM64 DS (and just SM64 for that matter) they are really intelligent and you can tell how 
 they react when you see you and it is really fun to watch them charge at you , miss, then see them 
 get angry. The little Goombas and all the little enemies have so much emotion and personality!
 
  The graphics are really good!!! They are just so good for a handheld gaming system and I think 
 they are the best out of all DS games. If you are a person who judges games by their graphics, 
 youd rate this game VERY high!!!
  
  GRAPHICS RATING: 8.1/10
  
  Music/Sound: I think the music is very good. Some of the tunes, such as the one when youre in 
 the Castle can get stuck in your head. The game also has very good sounds such as the waterfall, 
 birds chirping, snoring, and the sound of you sliding down a race tunnel. Overall it has very good 
 sound/music and is better than most handheld games, even games on the DS and PSP which have a great 
 sound system and sounds/music. The music I would rank as decent. It is not as close to as good 
 as sound as games like Metroid Prime, Super Mario Sunshine, and all the other games for Gamecube, 
 Xbox, or PS2. It is still all right though.
  
  MUSIC/SOUND RATING: 7.2/10
  
  user posted image
  ^Yoshi going into the picture for Whomp's Fortress
  
  Replay Value: The 
 game doesnt have much of a Replay Value. That isnt really that bad of a problem though because 
 the game is really difficult and long and Ive had it since the day it came out (I bought it on 
 November 22, the day the DS came out) and I still need 12 more stars to win. If you win and get 
 every star, I dont think it would be that fun or joyful playing it again. If you absolutely need 
 replay value, I guess you could play the mini-games which I talk about below over and over but 
 I dont know how thrilling that would be.
  
  REPLAY VALUE: 3.9/10
  
  Characters: This is the part where I tell you about all the characters in the game!!! Here it goes:
 
  
  Mario: Nintendos mascot. He is one of the four playable characters in the game and Yoshi must 
 save him first before you can use him though. He is the first unlockable character.
  MARIO: user posted image
  
  Yoshi: A green dinosaur. He is one of the four playable characters 
 and the one you start out with. He can suck up enemies with his tongue and turn them into eggs.
 
  YOSHI: user posted image
  
  Luigi: Marios scardy-cat brother. He is also one of the four playable characters and he must be 
 saved by Yoshi to play him. He is very fast and can turn invisible.
  LUIGI: user posted image
  
  Wario: Some big-tough wannabe. Wario is very fat and think hes 
 the greatest person on earth. He is the fourth playable character and also must be saved by Yoshi 
 before being used.
  WARIO: user posted image
  
  Princess Peach: Also known as Princess Toadstool. She owns Peachs Castle where the game takes 
 place and you must save her. She is in charge of Mushroom Kingdom.
  PEACH: user posted image
  
  Bowser: The King of Koopas. He is the main bad guy in SM64 DS and 
 you must beat him 3 times to save the Princess. He breathes fire and is the most evil creature 
 in Mushroom Kingdom!
  BOWSER: user posted image
  
  King Bomb-Omb: He is king of all Bomb-Ombs. He is the first boss you face in the game and you face 
 in the very first level/course in the game. If you know the controls, he is very easy to beat.
 
  KING BOMB-OMB: Can't Find Picture, If you can, PM it to me! Thank you!
  
  Koopa the Quick: He is a koopa and is very quick! You have to race him two or three times during 
 the game. Once in one of the first four levels/courses of the game.
  KOOPA THE QUICK: user posted image
  
  These are just some of the characters, mainly the main 
 ones. There are a bunch more in the game.
  
  CHARACTERS SCORE: 8.5/10
  
  Mini Games: Yes, they did throw mini games in Super Mario 64! There are 36 in all. They arent 
 much and are mainly very simple, but theyre alright. They arent nearly as great as mini games 
 in Sonic and Mario Party Games though.
  They mainly involve moving your pointer thing around the touch screen. Some, such as the bomb-omb 
 pick-up can get very addicting and frustrating, but its FUN! You shouldnt buy the game for mini-games 
 cause youll be disappointed. The games are fun, but they quickly lose your interest and are extremely 
 easy.
  You get mini-games by catching runaway bunnies which are scattered around the castle. Each one 
 of the four characters can catch up to nine bunnies. When you catch a bunny, theyll give you a 
 key. When you get a key, you can unlock a mini game in Peachs Toy Room. You can then play the 
 mini games in Peachs Toy Room or from the main menu. That is all I have to say about the mini 
 games!
  
  MINI GAMES SCORE: 6.8/10
  
  user posted image
  MINI GAME PICTURE^
  Overall: Ill start my overall section my telling you all the good and bad things about Super Mario 
 64 DS!
  BAD THINGS:
  -Not a good replay-value
  -Pretty Easy, Very Hard to get a game-over
  -Mini Games are easy and very simple
  -Hard to 
 get used to the controls at first
  -Almost too many different kind of jumps
  
  GOOD THINGS:
  -Nintendo Game
  -Great Graphics for a Handheld Game
  -Lots of fun levels
 
  -Nice Story
  -Mario Game (all Mario games are good!)
  -Great Game Play
  -Power stars are really fun!!!
  -4 main characters
  -Little Bad Guys are SWEET!
  -Great Bosses
 
  -Game play is really fun and addicting
  -Easy to understand mini-games
  -Cool, Catchy Music
  
  Now to the main part of the overall section! This should be a great 
 game who loves Nintendo, and an even GREATER game to some one like me who loves Mario games in 
 specific. It is a replica of a classic, and is still better than the original. I would DIFFIDENTLY 
 recommend this game, Its awesome! But, If you are one of those people who like violent, extremely 
 good graphics games, and think Mario is a kiddy game (you are wrong) , this is not a game for you! 
 This is also not a game for people who like Side-Scrollers, RPGs and/or Sports games. It is a 
 game for people who like Platform, Adventure, and similar games!! Anyway, to get to the point, 
 I would buy you this game if you want a fun, interesting, addicting, and All-Around Great Mario/Nintendo 
 game!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: palomaydarla
Rating: 4.8
Date: Jun 28, 2007 5:11 pm PT
Review:  I regret to say Nintendo has managed to screw up one of the great games for the N64. This Mario 
 was perfect for the N64 because all the mario moves that the controls allowed us to do.
  The graphics are nice on the ds, nice sound, I thought it was really cool that you could play with 
 yoshi, but the controls are a pain in the ass... and you just don't get used to them.
  It's a shame because I really love the game, and I really wanted to play it, but as soon as I started 
 to improve on the game, I realized I was cursing and swearing because it's really difficult to 
 make the character move.
  
  By the way, I've been wishing to have zelda oot on the ds... but Mario made me realize how painful 
 the game play would be... T_T 
::::::

::::::
UserName: koolmankris
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 27, 2007 9:14 pm PT
Review:  I was a wee bit skeptic about this one since I played the original to death, and then some. But 
 the new DS version brings a few new things along for the ride. Yes it has pretty much all the original 
 content (which was quite a lot) and it has full support for playing with the stylus, but there's 
 more here that could've nearly filled another N64 cart. The most noticeable is the fact you can 
 play as Yoshi, Luigi, Wario, and of course Mario. You actually BEGIN as Yoshi and need to help 
 free Mario from the castle. But unlocking the other players isn't as simple as you'd think. You 
 actually play through whole new worlds and fight against new bosses first. The castle is also redesigned 
 in some places, although it isn't changed to the point where you wouldn't recognize it. Some of 
 the music seems a bit different, which is okay. In some ways this version is better because the 
 graphics are a bit better, though not mind-blowing. To describe it best, I'd say it looks like 
 a late-generation PS1 game, which is saying a lot since this is on a cartridge, as opposed to a 
 CD. It was released back in 2004, but I just started with it and I think it's a must-have for any 
 DS owner, new or old. Only thing that might cheese of some folks is the controls, which can be 
 a bit hard to get used to, especially with the stylus. But the good outweighs the bad, and this 
 one's a definite winner. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lilhawkkid182
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jun 18, 2007 6:41 pm PT
Review:  Super Mario 64 DS is the rehash of the what might be one of the best 3D platmorers of any time 
 from the Nintendo 64. This game was released along with teh DS console so gamers could get some 
 Mario right away. This time there are more stars, multiplayer, and some new friends to play along 
 with. The game starts out with Mario getting an invite to Peach's castle, and somehow he gets locked 
 up and he makes the swap with everyones favorite dinosaur Yoshi. So then you start on your adventure. 
 You will go along on the famous Mario 64 levels, for a little bit of some deja-vu of your times 
 on the Nintendo 64 console. As you progress you unlock fun mini-games which are the only thing 
 that you use the touch screen for besides rotating the camera, and the classic bowser and other 
 boss battles along the way. Nothing will make you more upset than realizing right at the last moment 
 that you do not have a Z button and then you must flip through your booklet to figure out the right 
 button to use. The touch screen camera works just like the C Buttons did so I had no problem with 
 the camera. The graphics have been updated from the original and with the mini-game additions, 
 this game is even more fun this time around. I definaltey recomend this to anyone who owns a Nintendo 
 DS because it is a fun game to be able to play on the go, because you can get a star, save, shut 
 it off, and then be on your vaction or wherever you might be. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: fw190a8
Rating: 6.9
Date: Jun 13, 2007 7:12 pm PT
Review:  This game is one that I played on the N64 console many years ago. Then, it was an exciting 3D platform 
 game and pushed the Mario Brothers franchise to new levels. Now, it is still an entertaining platformer 
 but it is a shameful missed opportunity on Nintendo's part.
  
  The main problem here is that the game portrays a distinct lack of motivation to innovate. The 
 DS's touchscreen is a huge selling point, but it is incredibly underused, and Mario 64 DS can safely 
 be tossed onto the pile of games failing to properly use it. Yes, the character can be controlled 
 directly by using the stylus on the bottom screen, but this is simply no substitute for the standard 
 D-pad and buttons technique.
  
  Of course, the appeal of the game is going to vary depending on whether the player has already 
 tried the original N64 game. If this is the case, then Mario 64 DS contains very little extra: 
 there are 30 extra stars (challenges) to work through. It might, however, be a good purchase simply 
 for nostalgic reasons, seeing as most people will no longer have their N64 console.
  
  If the player has never tried the original Mario 64, this game could well prove to be a treat. 
 An entertaining and varied mix of platform and puzzle gaming is backed by a catchy, foot-tapping 
 soundtrack, and there is plenty to do before reaching the end of the game. Due to the 3D nature 
 of the action, the learning curve is quite steep for players of traditional Mario games, but anyone 
 who has played a 3D action or platform game will have no trouble.
  
  The selection of minigames provide an interesting diversion and a more substantial outing for the 
 stylus, but anyone who also owns New Super Mario Bros. for the DS will be disappointed to note 
 that they are exactly the same games. It is this kind of corner-cutting on Nintendo's part that 
 is going to win them no favours and show their commitment to churning a huge wad of cash, rather 
 than providing quality entertainment. In fact, many SNES titles were released for the GBA with 
 minimal changes. Many older Nintendo games are recycled once again as downloads for the Wii. Nobody 
 will question Nintendo's ability to profit from these re-releases. After all, a small amount of 
 work on their part will yield a large amount of profit. Hopefully gamers will eventually stop and 
 ask how this is advancing gaming as a whole, or even why they should put up with it.
  
  It would have been simple to work in a few more elaborate uses for the stylus in Mario 64 DS. It 
 would have been simple to add a bunch more levels, or perhaps a new plot twist. Instead, this is 
 a landmark game for all the wrong reasons. It highlights the start of Nintendo's lack of innovation 
 on the DS. Expect many more such recycled titles to appear soon. For those interested in seeing 
 how old game content should properly be recycled, see Grand Theft Auto: Liberty City Stories. For 
 those who never played the original N64 version of this game, it is an entertaining and solid title. 
 For those who care about the progression of gaming and innovation therein, please don't buy this 
 title. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: arb92
Rating: 9
Date: Jun 9, 2007 4:35 pm PT
Review:  This game is great for the following reasons, its a game that is a follow up to one of the best 
 games for the 64. You get Luigi, Wario, and Yoshi to help you through this adventure and each have 
 their own special ability to help with the progress of the story. Instead of the normal 120 stars 
 that was in the 64 version, this one has 150 stars for you to hunt for which can make a longer 
 play time than the original. All the worlds now have 7 stars (excluding the 100 coins) in each 
 world. You have mini-games in this one so that you have something to do on there if you're bored 
 on the game. There are added hidden castle stars, like the one in the mirror room when you had 
 to use Luigi to go through the door in the reflection, and that was a well-hidden castle star. 
 The parts that make this game not so good are the following. Certain missions use certain characters, 
 and if you found that out towards the end of a mission, you had to go all the back, get the person 
 you need, and go through the whole thing again. Lastly, if you played this game for the 64 and 
 beat that one enough times, this game will be a breeze for you. But, this game is a fantastic game 
 for a first on the Nintendo DS. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: medennler
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 3, 2007 4:49 pm PT
Review:  If anyone can make a remake of a famous game it's nintendo. I hope that this is only one of the 
 many remakes for the greatest game on earth!!! I can easly say that this game is certanly not the 
 best. The original was but this game is right next to it. Has anybody said deji vu some time? Well 
 I have. This has everything that the original had plus extras, like better graphics, more characters, 
 more worlds, and a heck of a let more stars there are 30 more stars. And if anyone has all the 
 stars I say that you rock!!!! I only have 94. So over all I think that this is a great game. I 
 give it a 10.0 out of 10.0. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Cerza
Rating: 8.2
Date: May 31, 2007 12:59 pm PT
Review:  Every once in a great while a game comes along which captivates its players to no end, and when 
 the end is over, continues to hold them. Seldom is this game an eight year old quasi remake/port. 
 However, Mario 64 DS is such a game. If you asked me around this time a little over ten years ago 
 if I would ever be captivated my Mario 64 again, as I had finally finished collecting all 120 stars 
 in January of 1997, my answer would probably have been a very strict no. Yet here we are ten 
 years later with that same game re-released on Nintendo's DS, and I have fallen in love with it 
 all over again. Upon completing the game I felt a void open within my being, which I know will 
 never be able to be filled. Mario 64 DS dose that to you. It's an experience that isn't new and 
 isn't old, but has a fresh spin on what you have most likely played before. It will grab you by 
 the balls and never relinquish them, not even when it's over, with Bowser beaten and our heroes 
 eating their cake, justly deserved. It will not let go, leaving an irreparable gaping chasm in 
 the soul, which will never be filled, because in beating it, you know you have lost something special. 
 Mario 64 DS is such a game, truly epic.
  
  The Story line for the game is pretty much the same as the original we all experience back in the 
 fall of 1996 with Princess Peach calling Mario to the castle because she has baked a cake for him. 
 However, there are some twists this time around. For starters Mario doesn't come alone. He brings 
 his brother Luigi and evil twin Wario, which doesn't make any sense from a continuity stand point, 
 along for the party. However, they vanish as soon as they enter the castle. Yoshi, who has been 
 sleeping on the castle roof during all of this, is awoken by the Lakatu brothers, who everyone 
 should recognize as the camera men from the first game, and who maintain that role in this one 
 as well. The Lakatu task Yoshi with going into Peachs castle in search for our missing hero's, 
 and the adventure begins. Shortly after entering, you learn that Bowser has taken over the castle, 
 stolen its power stars, and imprisoned everyone in the walls, including Mario, Luigi, and Wario. 
 The result of this is you have to, unlock Mario, Luigi, and Wario to play as them. This sounds 
 okay at first, but Nintendo could have done a little better job with this since they are literally 
 locked behind a door in the princess quarters. Once unlocked, it's quickly apparent that each 
 of the four playable characters in the game has entirely different properties and abilities. Wario 
 is fat and slow, but a powerhouse. Luigi is thin and nimble, coming complete with the flutter jump 
 from Mario 2. Mario is the best all around character and plays pretty much identically to how he 
 was in the original N64 release. Yoshi has been bootlegged from Yoshis Story, and can eat enemies 
 turning them into eggs. These eggs can then be hucked at other less delicious enemies for a ranged 
 attack. Yoshi also has his classic grunting flutter jump, and can spit out whatever you place in 
 his mouth much like you could in Yoshis Island. He can also spit fire if the devoured foe has 
 that property, which will probably make him your character of choice for some 90% of the game, 
 because he has everything and is grossly imbalanced. While this addition to the game may seem like 
 a bad thing, it gives the game a much needed fresh feel and is much of the reason for why Mario 
 64 DS is so engrossing. This also eliminates the different power cap's from the original release 
 and brings back the much missed power flower , temporarily activating your characters special ability 
 when touched. Mario for instance gets the power balloon ability from Super Mario World, allowing 
 him to float around.
  
  The music in the game, as well as the sound effects, are as good ever with the return of some classic 
 Mario beats such as a remix to the original underground music heard in stage 1-2 of Mario Bros. 
 1 on the NES. Other tunes in the game have been touched up and a few new songs have been added 
 thanks to the inclusion of a couple new levels, which are nice but mostly feel tacked on. Voices 
 for the characters, as well a their sprites, have all been ripped directly from their latest Game 
 Cube titles, minus Yoshi who was taken from Yoshi's Story on the N64 since as of the Nintendo DS 
 release it was his most recent title.
  
  Not surprisingly, the graphics have been touched up as well. Upon comparison with the original 
 N64 version, the graphical touch up Mario 64 DS received is almost shocking, as the original Mario 
 64 looks bland and disgustingly simple, with no visual depth to it what so ever, when seen beside 
 its new DS counterpart.
  
  Unfortunately, other parts of the game have either not stood the test of time, or not ported so 
 well. The camera is most notable here. Its position ranges from god awful to down right frustrating 
 at times. You don't have 360 degrees of control over it, but some where around 270. The reason 
 for this is the camera will always go behind your character when you click on it, other wise it 
 just stays, or will stop if there is an object or wall in the way. My best guess for why Nintendo 
 did this is because they were trying to cut down on the ungodly amount of clipping errors that 
 were a major complaint, as well as a major problem at times, in the original game. However, the 
 camera will still occasionally go into the wall and clip, which to me doesn't make sense when they 
 were trying to get rid of that problem, and as a player, I would rather have a camera that clips 
 and will give me the view I need as opposed being forced to constantly make blind leaps of faith 
 because I cant what Im doing, which result in hindered progress and/or death more times than 
 not.
  
  Another problem with the game is the controls. By default, the game is setup so you can use both 
 the touch screen and the 2D D-pad with the A, B, X, and Y buttons. However, play control with the 
 D pad is so poor that its practically unplayable. Those that attempt to use the stylus will be 
 sorely disappointed. I don't think there have been words invented yet to describe how bad the game 
 handles if you attempt to use it. The Thumb Pad, which comes on the strap of the DS, is the way 
 to over come most of this dilemma since it is like using the old control stick on the N64. However, 
 the thumb strap needs to constantly be readjusted, or tightened. Even this method of control is 
 only descent at best since your movement is limited by the size of the touch screen. Also if you 
 use the tip of your thumb using control sticks for precision, such as I do, you will find that 
 its rather difficult to keep the pad in position and will most likely have to settle for dumbed 
 down control by using the ball of your thumb. Also, the handling is much looser in Mario 64 DS 
 as it was in the original, and as a result you will probably find yourself making a lot more silly 
 mistakes, such as falling off cliffs and ledges, more often than not.
  
  If you need something to occupy yourself with on a flight to Tokyo and back, this is the thing. 
 Even after your return theres a good chance you won't have this baby beat, because its a solid 
 20-40 hour game at least, which makes it one of the longer DS titles out there. Also, for all the 
 completion freaks, more stars have been added for you to get. You will find that many of them are 
 very difficulty to acquire while others are laughably easy. Mario 64 DS took up about two weeks 
 of on and off game time for me to get the 80 stars required to unlock the final boss and then beat 
 him. The Boss levels and battles are without a doubt one of the games most challenging areas, especially 
 the final level and battle, which I can describe in no other way than as totally nightmarish, and 
 I attribute my victory to nothing more than luck.
  
  Despite the control issues, everything is there and you will find the overall experience is extremely 
 long lasting and satisfying. Mario 64 DS is a challenging game, as well as a very fun and rewarding 
 game to play. I sincerely enjoyed my time spent with it, and urge everyone else out there with 
 a DS, to go out and buy it if you haven't already done so. This is a keeper that will stay with 
 you for a long time to come, and is unquestionably one of the best DS titles available. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: wisecrack57
Rating: 8.6
Date: May 25, 2007 8:49 am PT
Review:  Super Mario 64 DS, if you already didnt know, is an update of the classic game Super Mario 64. 
 This time around the game has stunning graphics, 3 new characters, and more hidden stars. The graphics 
 are truly amazing in this game, the character models are great and the environments are fantastic. 
 The 3 new characters are pretty cool because it adds a new element to the game, in this game you 
 actually start as Yoshi, and you have to find and unlock Mario, Luigi, and Wario. Each character 
 has a special power unique to them, but in the levels there are red, green, and yellow hats lying 
 around that you can pick up and put on to change into that person. This time around there are 150 
 stars instead of the original 120. The 30 hidden stars add a little extra flair to the game. Also, 
 there is multiplayer. This is not one of the best features in the game, and gets boring pretty 
 quickly. There are also clever little mini games that are actually pretty fun. Overall this game 
 is a great update of a classic. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MarioMainic
Rating: 10
Date: May 18, 2007 11:27 pm PT
Review:  Super mario Sixty-four ds is a remake of super mario sixty-four on the the nintendo 64 . The game 
 is still the same but with extra's like levels and charaters to play with . You can capture rabbit 
 to get more minigames four each charater they all have a sertain tpye of minigame . The story starts 
 mario , wario and luigi comes out of pipe and goes in castle and get's lost then yoshi is there 
 to free them from there level . In each level now there is 7 stars there is a new to capture 5 
 sliver stars .
  
  I recommed this game cause it is easier then the origanal one . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: LianeCartman
Rating: 10
Date: May 10, 2007 9:14 pm PT
Review:  This Mario game is Nintendo's Crown I think. I have played almost all of the Mario game. To me 
 Mario 64 DS Is the most addictive video game ever made. I have played tons of different games for 
 different consoles. I find Mario 64 DS the most addictive. If it weren't for needing to sleep and 
 doing the things I need to around my house (I am a house wife) I would play Mario 64 DS 24/7. I 
 think the DS version is much better than the 64 version. *FOR PARENTS* If you are trying to decide 
 what is a game your child will love and never get tired of then I highly recommend this game. Even 
 though I am 24 my attention span changes like the wind. I have been playing this game for around 
 two years and LOVE it. Anytime, I am bored this game takes away that board feeling. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ravemaster_866
Rating: 9.6
Date: May 8, 2007 7:03 pm PT
Review:  Wow ,for a remake of a game this is most likely the best ever. The original Super Mario 64 was 
 on the Nintendo 64 (clearly) , due to the controller of the 64 it was harder to control with the 
 DS version tho the controls are easier to handle. In this remake you play Yoshi, the green dinosaur 
 looking thing, as you progress you will unlock Mario, Luigi, and Worio each one seems to have certain 
 levels that to get the star your going to need a certain one. The graphics have been sharpened a 
 bit making it look at lest a little bit more like it was real. The sounds match the original as 
 well the environment on the out side and inside is a bit scary with the real like sounds. The game 
 has a story mode and a arcade mode. The arcade mode is a section were you play mini-games you unlocked 
 during the story mode. The only thing about the game play that is lacking is the wi-fi game in 
 the game you and a friend play two different Yoshi's and try to collect the most stars. Over all 
 though this game is great play it on the go or when you only have a few minutes to play, but if 
 you can avoid the multilayer game, please. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: arthas242000
Rating: 9.3
Date: May 7, 2007 9:15 pm PT
Review:  I know that the 2 guys that read my reviews (and that is saying a lot) probably find it pretty 
 boring that I usually take the beginning of all my reviews and try to relate to something; whethers 
 its childhood or recent events in my life, to random events. Well guess what, I didn't own a nintendo 
 64; yes!! shocker, a hardcore Nintendo fan (I don't say fanboy because I'm not seeing how I didn't 
 buy a Nintendo 64 and Super Nintendo!!) like myself didn't own a 64.... WHAAAT!! As I stated before 
 in previous reviews, I was giving another deadly choice at the age of 12 to either choose: Sega 
 Saturn, Nintendo 54 or Playstation (I don't even count Atari and others because their consoles 
 sucked and even though the Saturn only lasted one year it still had some decent games.) Honestly, 
 the real choice was Sony or Nintendo; unfortunately, arcades were still around at Hockey rinks 
 and other exotic locations so I naturally got hooked on Tekken and other great fighting games of 
 that era. Now, someone that absolutely loves fighting games and can only find one system that has 
 his super- dee-duper favorite game is.... Tekken on the playstation.
  
  Thats right, Namco and Sony completely sold me on one game alone. The original Tekken. I mean, 
 you have to understand I was 12 years old and the only other 3D fighting game that was out there 
 was virtua fighter. Since, I lacked the proper skills to dominate people in virtua fighter I stuck 
 to what worked which at the time was Tekken. But this isn't a review of tekken, (which, remind 
 me, I should do a review on Tekken!!) its a review on Super Mario 34 for the DS!! Yes well, since 
 I had nothing to relate to this game other than the fact that I didn't own the original Mario 64; 
 the intro would have been this: I didn't own the original Mario 24 game so I have nothing else 
 to really say here...
  
  Story: Well, its a mario game what do you think the story is. Peach baked mario a pie and she wants 
 him to visit her castle and eat her pie . But guess what Bowers wanted some of that pie if you 
 know what I mean; and mario has to go collect that ass; metaphorically speaking of course. I mean 
 if you have half a brain you will realize that mario has the simplest yet greatest story of all 
 time like Zelda!! WHY?? Because it doesn't matter how many different times you tell it, the core 
 elements are always going to motivate. I mean seriously, can I be frank here; kids cover your ears 
 and eyes, vagina is what drives this world. We see it in mario, zelda and even metroid in some 
 weird yet very satisfying lesbian action. I mean what other reason does mario continuously rescue 
 peach, because he real, real, real wants to hit that peach. Ok enough with the sexual metaphors, 
 basically, mario is out to save the day like always.
  
  Gamplay: The gameplay for this game and Mario 16 is the same. Run Jump grab a star and repeat. 
 It really is that simple, I mean other than the fact that mario went 3D and this game created the 
 whole hub system with different portals and a major stage; and single handly, literally, sold an 
 entire system is pretty good I guess. Seriously, mario has never felt to mobile and fluent; Mario 
 can three jump, do back spins, spin around in a circle and fly up in the air and most importantly 
 jump of walls while sliding on them. It all amounts to one of the greatest 3D platforming games 
 ever created. I mean even the camera system is ahead of its time, using the the yellow buttons 
 on the N-64 controller or stylus on the DS system to move the camera around. The difference between 
 this game and the original 64 is the add-on characters and levels. These different characters, 
 which include: Yoshi, Wario and Luigi all add a little variety to the mix of things. Now, if your 
 the type of person that hates having to deal with different characters and you just want to play 
 with mario than your probably not going to like this version; since some of the new puzzles revolve 
 around specific characters. For example, Wario is the strongest so he can smash huge black colored 
 blocks; no one but Wario can smash these blocks. This is just an example of the basic mentality 
 of Super Mario 64 DS.
  
  Graphics and Other stuff
  Other than a very nice face lift the games graphics and sound remain exactly the same. Other than 
 the little sound effects of wario, yoshi and luigi running around nothing has changed from the 
 original.
  
  In the end, this game is a classic and if you don't have a ds than go get this game for the Wii 
 console. If you already have it for the N64 than don't bother getting this game because even though 
 there are new characters it doesn't really add that much to justify a purchase if you already own 
 it. Either way, you are going to get the same amazing experience whether you have the DS, Nintendo 
 Wii or N64 version. GO OUT AND GET THIS GAME!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: vashkey
Rating: 7.8
Date: May 2, 2007 2:19 pm PT
Review:  Super Mario 64 DS was the launch title game for the DS... Kinda like Super Mario 64 was the launch 
 title for the Nintendo 64. But it's not quite what it use to be, but not in a bad way... But it 
 still would have been nice to have had more major changes.
  
  Super Mario 64 is your typical Mario game. You set out to save Peach from none other than Bowser. 
 You should be more than familiar with the story if you played the original game.... Or almost any 
 other Mario game for that matter.
  
  Gameplay: The game play pretty similarl to 64. The game is pretty much exactly like Super Mario 
 64 by a control stand point. So there really isn't much here I'll need to explain. Other than what 
 was already on the plate though, we have four differen't playable characters (Mario, Luigi, Wario 
 and Yoshi) . They all have minor diffoerances, but over all they all play alike. But some parts 
 of the game will require you use one character in specific to do certain things. You see, there 
 are power ups, and each character has a different power they get. You see, For instance, if Luigi 
 were to get said power up, he'd be able to go through certain solid objects. It's nothing amazing 
 or gorund breaking, but it adds a little variety. While it brought alot of the good, it also brought 
 with it some of the bad of the game. The camera, like before sometimes simply does not want to 
 co operate. Now, I do think people over react over the camera in the 3d mario series somtimes, 
 but still, it is a nusence some times. Also, since the D pad isn't exactly in tune on how how hard 
 you press it, you'll simply walk when you press it alone. But with the Y button pressed you'll 
 run. It works, but it does make platforming a bit more difficult. In the end, the gameplay is fun. 
 But, by today's standards this is practically your typical paltformer. Nothing really amazing here. 
 Graphics: The game nails the graphics. I'd have to say this is current; y the best looking DS game 
 out right now (which is pathetic seeing as this is a launch title...) . The game's graphics are revamped, 
 so it looks way better than the original. The Mario's and Bowser's modles were redone and look 
 excelent. And some of the areas have also been touched up a bit. The graphics are beautiful, colorful. 
 I mean, it's the best looking 3d mario second to Shunshine. And theres absolutly no slow down here.
 
  
  Sound: The music is nice and catchy, and about as good as it gets on the DS. Sound effects work 
 well here to.
  
  Value: You got some decent value here. For twenty bucks your getting yourself Super Mario 64, with 
 thirty additonal stars to collect, new bosses and levels and a multiplayer. The multiplayer is 
 pretty simple, and you'll be finished with it pretty quick. It's just a 4 player free for all match 
 where each player tries to get the most stars in a limited amount of time. Thats it. No team battle, 
 no online, nothing but that one mode. But it's still there, and it's better than no multiplayer... 
 I guess... And theres also a bunch of nifty minigames packed in to pass the time. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: waZelda
Rating: 7.8
Date: Apr 20, 2007 4:09 am PT
Review:  SM64DS starts with the same video as in SM64. But after Mario have jumped out of the pipe, Luigi 
 and Wario do so as well and they all set of to find the princess and get to taste the cake she 
 have made. But when they don't come back, you will have to set of as Yoshi to try to find them 
 and rescue them. A lot of the additions are really cool. For instanse to play as four different 
 characters. I also think it is great that there are a lot more rabbits than in SM64, and they don't 
 dissappear after you've taken them once. The super mushroom is cool, but the new star consepts 
 (the switch and the silver stars) aren't really a great addition. Though the additions are good, 
 it is kind of frustrating when you have to go back all the time because you need a certain character 
 for a star. Also, it doesn't feel as good to play this as it feels to play SM64. Sometimes, controlling 
 the characters are just frustrating. Another thing, is that the nostalgism disappears quite fast 
 and it developes into too much of a different game. I will not say that it is a game you shouldn't 
 have in your collection, because you should, but still it is a great disappointment to me. They 
 make a new version eigth year after the first one. The graphics are worse and the gameplay isn't 
 even as good. However, having a SM64 version on a portable console, is great, so I think I'm going 
 to play it quite a lot. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: criminalowen
Rating: 7.1
Date: Apr 17, 2007 9:55 am PT
Review:  If you have played it on the 64 then it will never feel as good as it was then, it was a good attempt 
 and a good outcome too. I first played the game on the 64 as a child and it was magical to me. 
 It was brilliant, but i never managed to complete it! When i heard it was coming out on DS i had 
 to buy it.
  
  If you have never played the game before and are not a fan of the Mario series then you should 
 still give it a try as you may fall in love with it. It is 3D and makes good use of the touch screen. 
 It is quite smooth and fun to play and there have been a few modifacations from the original. It 
 folows the same storyline of pretty much every other Mario game. Oh no! Bowser has kidnapped Peach! 
 You must save her by collecting stars! You have the little mushroom kid helping you through if 
 you get really stuck. The multiplayer let it down. There is no Wi - Fi which is fair enough but 
 there are only 2 other game modes. The mini games which are quite fun to play, and a game where 
 you have to beat the other player in a race to a star... Not so fun. Overall the game is fun to 
 play and is worth buying, but certain aspects do let it down. It needed something a bit more to 
 make it a classic. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: baghdig
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 17, 2007 4:14 am PT
Review:  This game was my favorite when I was young and it still is now. Mario 64 on the Ds has more new 
 stuff added to the game that makes it better. The levels have been modified, more levels have been 
 added, new playable characters, new moves, new items ( Flower, Mushroom) Each character has his 
 own special move by getting a flower. Also each character has his unique moves that are necessary 
 to complete some levels. Cool mini games to unlock totally stylus compatible. And it has a multiplayer 
 mode where you and your friends are joined in a level to compete to who is going to get the star. 
 If you've like this game on the 64 you will surely like it on the Ds , because there are even more 
 stars to collect and new challenges to do. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: HolyCheesus
Rating: 9.2
Date: Apr 16, 2007 9:19 pm PT
Review:  Well, its Super Mario 64, but better than ever.
  
  First of all it has more characters, levels, and unlockables than the orginal. The only problem 
 is say good bye to Metal Mario, and the graphics can't compare to the Nintendo 64 version. There 
 are A few control problems as well. With all that out of the way, you have your self a fine DS 
 game.
  
  The mini games I say are pretty cheap, they are also hard to unlock. You have to chase around those 
 annoying bunnies till you catch one. Its all worth it when you get to race that peguin down the 
 slide.
  
  This time around, there are 150 stars, 30 more that the N64 version. Each new charcter has their 
 own level and boss, and they are (I think) a new event in each orginal stage.
  
  I still play this game from time to time, its still a great game to date now, and if you don't 
 have this by now, your crazy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ShadowLaguna
Rating: 8.9
Date: Apr 13, 2007 4:34 am PT
Review:  Introduction
  Eight years after the release of a brilliant N64 game, Nintendo remade Super Mario 64 for the Nintendo 
 DS. You can now play as Mario, Yoshi, Luigi and Wario. The story is also slightly different. This 
 is more than just a remake folks, it's a huge update of a great N64 game! This is a spoiler-free 
 review so anyone who hasn't even heard of this game can read this.
  
  Graphics
  Some of the best i've seen for the Nintendo DS. A huge improvement from the Nintendo 64 version!
 
  10/10
  
  Sound
  The music is just the same as it was for the N64! Brilliant!!
  8/10
  
  Gameplay
  One of interesting updates to the game is that you don't just play as Mario to 
 get the 120 stars plus the extra 30 adding it up to 150, you can now play as Yoshi, Luigi and Wario 
 to find them. Of course, some of the stars can only be found with certain characters. At the start 
 of the game, you take control of Yoshi, trying to rescue Mario, Luigi and Wario. They are locked 
 away in rooms and you need to fins keys to get to them. Other than these tweaks to the game, it's 
 basically the same. You find the stars, defeat Bowser a few times, and rescue the Princess. If 
 you want to read more on the gameplay, check my Super Mario 64 review.
  9/10
  
  Character Design
  It sa me a Mario!
  10/10
  
  Storyline
  Still a bit lame, but with extras. 
 Still very cliched.
  7/10
  
  Overall
  Super Mario 64 DS is a brilliant remake and is worth owning by any DS owner! One of the best remakes 
 ever!
  8.9/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: HuskiO
Rating: 9.6
Date: Apr 10, 2007 10:13 am PT
Review:  Gameplay: 9/10 Great improvment from the old Mario 64, which was fun itself.
  -More stages means longer time of fun.
  -Now you can play with 4 characters: Mario (afcourse) , 
 Yoshi, Luigi and Wario, each one of them has special abilities that the others can't do.
  -Good mini games who are fun playing too.
  Like other marios, defeating the last boss get you 
 nothing except subtitles &gt;.&gt;
  
  Graphics:10/10
  Fixed the original Mario 64 graphic glitches, like when standing near a whole, you can see whats 
 behind it o. o
  SImple control of the camera by pressing L and R buttons.
  
  Sound:9/10
  The sound is nice, but sometimes it repeats itself, like same music for all bosses. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SaxxyGamer18
Rating: 8
Date: Jun 5, 2007 2:13 pm PT
Review:  The Good: Three control schemes to choose from; solid graphics and sound; 30 more stars than the 
 N64 original; three more characters to use; fun minigames.
  
  The Bad: The best control scheme is also the most likely to scratch your screen; tinny sound at 
 times; multiplayer is too simple; none of the control schemes work perfectly; little lasting appeal.
 
  
  Super Mario 64 is one of the most revolutionary games ever made, as far as 3D games go. It truly 
 showed what could be done in the third dimension that could not be done in the second. Here, SM64 
 has received a loving makeover onto Nintendo's new portable system, and it is a solid and fun offering, 
 albeit not without its flaws.
  
  Super Mario 64 DS has the distinction of being the only game worth owning along with the DS release, 
 and as such it's a bit easier to recommend. The DS took quite a while to pick up speed, and this 
 was the only universally well-reviewed game. Feel the Magic had its fans and its detractors.
  
  SM64DS works fairly well. There's three different control schemes to choose from, though none 
 of them are perfect. Each has a fairly steep learning curve, and some have the tendency to cause 
 undesired touch screen scratches. None of them can make up for the lack of an analog stick.
  
  There's some good replay value to the game due to its 30 extra stars to get beyond the original 
 120. There's also amusing single-player minigames and a ho-hum multiplayer. Mostly, this game works 
 to tide the hungry DS crowd over till some really good stuff comes out.
  
  So, now that the DS has been out for a good long time, and there's some seriously awesome games 
 on it, it's just kinda hard to recommend this game very much. It's solid and a good bit of fun, 
 but there's better games out there. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: chocolate1325
Rating: 8
Date: Apr 1, 2007 10:03 am PT
Review:  This game has new features like a mini game room. There's lots of mini games some are fun some 
 are dull. There is an extra 30 stars to collect so thats 150 stars to the orignals 120. New playable 
 characters apart from Mario are Luigi, Yoshi and Wario and they all have different abilites to 
 each other. So it is better than Mario 64 because of this. I don't think it is as good as it. Mario 
 64 had perfect controls with this the D pad is a bit of a problem. The N64 was the perfect choice 
 for Mario 64 and I perfed just using Mario as well. Don't get me wrong it's a decent game but as 
 a game in which is considered by many as the best of all time this can not match it because of 
 the controls been the problem in the main game. The anologue joypad on the N64 was what made the 
 original brilliant and I didn't like the switching of characters from Mario to Luigi to Yoshi to 
 Wario. It just didn't work. Good but nowhere near the original. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Destiny_Hero
Rating: 3.9
Date: Mar 29, 2007 4:56 pm PT
Review:  Graphics: Uhhh..... Good.
  
  THE GAMEPLAY SUCKS!!!: In this 3-D game, the camera's VERY VERY VERY far away, and when you try 
 to ounch, and you're moving the least bit, you'll dive. And die. Furthermore, if you fall and die, 
 which is all too easy because the D-Pad controls often get a little insensitive and it'll put you 
 in the wrong direction, you're booted outta the level, and THERE ARE NO SAVE POINTS!!! If you're 
 getting 100 Coins for that extra star, one fall and it all sucks. The levels aren't too fun either. 
 The Minigames are fun, but most of them just plain suck; the rest aren't mini at all. They take 
 up to 20 minutes just at one try!!!
  
  Sound: It's reused a lot, and the boss music's always the same. Definately not something you'll 
 put o your Voice Memos on that fancy PDA to listen to.
  
  Replay Value: Let's all answer this together; NOOOOOOOOOOOOO!!!!!!!!!
  Levels are used over 8 
 times for missions, they're way too small, and there's just way too many oppertunities for that 
 instant-death.
  
  Tilt: Don't know what that means. Maybe all in all or something :O
  
  All in all: This game is only fun for so long.... But it makes a great first game. Too many glitches, 
 though, and the touch-screen controls are completely neccisary. NOT!
  
  
  Too many people have been disaggreeing 
 with my reveiws whenver I say a good game is bad.
  
  I CAN BE DIFFERENT!!!!
  Just because you didn't like my rating, you have no right to dis it! We all have our own opinions!!! 
 Only mark a reveiw badly if it did not support its reasons! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: skreetpreacha
Rating: 9
Date: Jun 16, 2007 6:48 pm PT
Review:  Gameplay: You start off playing as Yoshi, but can later switch to Luigi, Mario, and Wario, all 
 who have their set of unique moves. On some levels, you'll need to figure out which one to play 
 as. The levels themselves are designed greatly, and you'll have to complete them 8 times each. 
 Well, only if you want to collect all the stars from them that is. Each time you do get a star 
 from a level, something different is added to that level to give you a different objective, and 
 this concept in general is pretty much just like that in Mario Sunshine on the GC. (I personally 
 never played the original Mario 64 on the N64) . Except that there aren't those painfully frustrating 
 parts from Mario Sunshine where shadow mario took away his water pack and you had to get to the 
 end of the mini-maze... Most of the hard stuff in this game just involves a little strategy, and 
 it's not too bad. As the GS review stated, the controls aren't as tight as they could be, mostly 
 due to the absence of an analog stick, but you get used to it. The camera is good in open space, 
 lol, but will give you problems close to walls. And again, you get used to it, but those are flaws. 
 Other than that, the 3D platforming aspect is lots of fun. Graphics: The player models are VERY 
 nice, though some background objects, like trees and such, look very blocky up close. Overall though, 
 it has great graphics for a handheld game. Sound: As the GS review stated, some sounds can appear 
 muffled at times, but that's the exception. Most of the soundtrack and sound effects in the game 
 sound great and very Mario-esque. Value: I haven't had a chance to try out the multi-player, but 
 as the GS review mentioned, there are loads of mini-games to unlock here, most of which are very 
 good (and most of them carried over to NSMB also) . There is also LOTS to do in this game with a 
 total of 150 total stars to collect! Tilt: If I had to choose, I'd pick NSMB over this game, but 
 this game is very different from NSMB and good enough on it's own to be a great game for any DS 
 owners' collection. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: akshay1
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 25, 2007 7:14 am PT
Review:  Wasent as good as i thought it will be i thought it would be cool to be yoshi, wario, luigi and mario 
 but it makes no different its pretty hard to get stars at the end i hate getting them and when 
 i got 50 stars i thought i was going to beat it so i go into the room there is another room wit 
 a big star and it says get 80 stars and it start to get boring but im not saying the game sucks 
 but i should of buy new super mario bros metroid prime hunters or mario kart ds and i had a better 
 time playing it on n64 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Glitchseeker
Rating: 8
Date: Mar 25, 2007 4:52 am PT
Review:  This game is a new Super Mario 64 with more Stars to collect, more characters to play as and even 
 new bosses and secrets! The game introduces ne ways to dfet bosses and even comes wih three modes 
 of controls, three modes to play in and even play in a battle against friends or yourself!
  
  This game has a ton of power stars, items and abilities than the past! There are mini games 
 and a different story than the last! The game has a small amount of glitches, but the glitches 
 are so amazing and useful! You may even play as four different characters each with ther own abilities!
 
  
  The game lets you use Headphones, battle new and old bosses from other games and even do a variety 
 of new things like stepping on a switch and running to the end of a course, collecting different 
 types of stars an catching rabbits for keys to unlock new mini games! The graphics are kept the 
 same, as well as the sounds, but this is different in every other way! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: NBAmaster30
Rating: 8.4
Date: Mar 21, 2007 3:17 pm PT
Review:  When you read the Title it kinda sounds funny. Super Mario 64 DS. However the title makes perfect 
 sense the game is almost the same thing. The only difference really is playing as Wario, Yoshi, 
 and Luigi along with Mario. there is also single Card multiplayer and Mini games. This game has 
 more stars then the original one does and therefore will keep players playing longer. The graphics 
 is an upgrade when you compare the two. Even though this is a hand held it looks better then the 
 N64 but then agian the first one came out a decade ago. None the less this is a port. Same levels 
 same bosses etc.. but you play it in a different way. the don't force the touch screen into the 
 game like some games tend to do. they but a map that is very helpful in finding things and beating 
 levels. You would have liked to see another mario game. But that game has came out in NEW super 
 mario bros. it came about 2 years later but you would have liked to see it come out earlier. This 
 was the cheap way out and to spend time on the next mario game and still sell DS with launch title 
 worth picking up.
  
  Overall This game is good and if you played though the first game you prob. want to check this 
 game out to see if you can do it again and compare the two. and for those who never played it this 
 will be a fun experience with by far the best launch title that was available.
  
  Breakdown
  Gameplay: Jump into pictures collect stars if you liked the old game at all you will 
 enjoy it
  Graphics: Shows what the ds can do as far as a comparison to N64 this game trumps the N64 version.
 
  Sound: Lets a go! cool noticeable music and sound bytes we all enjoyed
  Value: If you played the old one you might feel ripped but overall it will take you while to beat 
 and you have mini games.
  Overall: mario's first DS game is a blast from the past and it shows what is to come in the future 
 of the DS. Endless possibilities. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DarkChrisss1995
Rating: 9.9
Date: Mar 19, 2007 9:11 am PT
Review:  Good: mini games, a lot of levels, four heroes, it never gets boring.
  Bad: I don t know :-)
  The game is very good-it has got a lot of locations and missions. There 
 are lots of different enemies and crazy bosses like Bowser. The graphics are very good for DS. The 
 game is S O O O O O O O cool, but the mini games are cooler-they are 36 (!) ! The sound is very good 
 -you can hear everything! Standart controls are good, but the touch mode is bad and the dual hand 
 mode is the worst. The game is perfect- every Mario fan must buy it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DiabeticDood
Rating: 8.5
Date: Mar 17, 2007 8:30 pm PT
Review:  Yeah this game is really fun to play. It makes me think of when I got the 64 at launch date and 
 played it all day. Now if you sold your N64 and wanna play this game its the same thing not to 
 much changed. The graphics are enhanced a bit which is pretty cool I feel it could have been a 
 little better but they wanted to keep it plain and simple for kids. The sound in this game though 
 is just really not too good for a portable. Compared to other games Ive played this doesnt really 
 cut up to my standards but theres plenty of other stuff to take my mind off sound. The touch screen 
 in this isnt really used to much but you have the option to use it a lot. You can either move 
 with the D-pad or touch the screen to move but I found it to be a little stiff with the screen 
 way. But if youre looking for a really good fun kid game just to kick back and have some fun then 
 get this game. But if youre expecting something new from this game. You might wanna try to find 
 it as cheap as you can. But in closing this game is really fun to play in the back of the car or 
 just try to collect one star before bed. Its cool because you can either play it for a long time 
 or just for ten minutes or be on your way. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: reidwii1
Rating: 8.5
Date: Mar 17, 2007 3:27 pm PT
Review:  64 ds is a remake of the original 64. a great one i might add. lots of changes and the same feeling 
 of play!
  
  GAMEPLAY: fun, classic but in a new way. the running is ok but i wish u didnt have to hold a button 
 down to go fast. the levels are fun as crap [in a good way] the add on to ,wario, luigi and yoshi 
 were great. to bad D. K wasnt there : [ but its alright. missions pretty much the same as last time 
 but just as fun!
  
  GRAPHICS: the graphics are highly improved since the last time! mario and company look awsome! 
 so much better. the land isnt as scratchy either. water amazes me. bowser also dosnt look as stupid.
 
  
  SOUND: mario sounds better, clearer. and you can here your surroundings better. but its not changed 
 that much from last time so thats the bad part.
  
  VALUE: maybe not as valueble as new super mario bros. but close. if you have this dont buy it for 
 wii. a must have if you are absessed with the mario franchise
  
  well theres another reveiw! i love writing reveiws so there will be much more to come, also check 
 out my previous ones and please recommend them! im reidwii1. till next time! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: shadowblade223
Rating: 9.6
Date: Mar 16, 2007 4:02 pm PT
Review:  This is a great remake of the original super mario 64. The old classic n64 enviorments, plus more 
 are featured in this epic mario game that everyone will enjoy. Playing as luigi, yoshi, and wario 
 are cool new features too and so are the mini games and even the bunnies you capture that can unlock 
 new mini games and the shiny glowing white bunnies that show up, when you collect all 10 you get 
 to unlock the door to do something cool.
  
  The 3 battles you have with bowser are cool too, and all of their abilities you have to use in different 
 areas really brings feeling and depth to the game, cuz everyone has their strengths and weaknesses.
 
  
  So far I`ve unlocked mario and luigi, gotten 42 stars, beat bowser once, and gotten 6 glowing white 
 bunnies.
  
  This is a great videogame that every mario or nintendo fan will enjoy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Wolflink001
Rating: 6
Date: Mar 29, 2007 7:45 am PT
Review:  First released on the N64 console, this game was a different one but not to my liking... To tell 
 you the truth, it kinda sucked and it has not changed much since being thrown on the DS. The stoyline 
 is kinda lame. ~Princess Peach baked a cake for you! Please come to the castle!~ Yeah! And as usual 
 she's gone! Nobodys home, now scram! GWH HA HA HA HA! Wow... Bowser's here! How'd he get here? 
 On his clown car? Anyway the whole game is based on a wild goose chase collecting power Stars! 
 The levels were annoying to me. Does their have to be a pit at every intersection???? Wahhhhhhhhhhhhhhh!!!!!!!! 
 But this time around, Luigi, Wario, and Yoshi will be joining you to scream as they fall down below! 
 The camera was clunky and glitchy!!! Most of my falls were because of it! The minigames are alright 
 but after while they test your paitence! BEAT THE HIGH SCORE!!! Yeah, ok, only problem is I CAN 
 T! TOO HARD! The Multiplayer was pitiful... SNATCH THE STAR!!! SNATCH THE STAR!!! In 30 seconds... 
 What the f%$#??? The whole game to me was a rollercoaster ride to hell! Even after you get all 
 the castle stars you got to find the CASTLE SECRET STARS!!!!! Are they pulling on my nerve cord???? 
 The graphics were alright but after awhile it gets old. The thing that pissed me off was that when 
 you get a Star Mario holds up a polygon fist!!!!!! So does everybody else! No 2 sign? What the 
 f$%^??? Had I known geometery was a factor I would not have noticed it... When it is a half-baked 
 game, and when everything is based on Power Star snatch and grab quest, I really get tired of that! 
 Mario Sunshine was way better! I recommend this game to people who like to show off....! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Leakybubbles
Rating: 8.5
Date: Dec 13, 2007 6:50 pm PT
Review:  bring ur favorite mario game on the go and everywhere!!! mario 64 is one of the best old games 
 ever. and im so glad it came out for the ds.
  
  I like all the new features and changing characters/ bunnies/ secret stars
  
  just makes a 
 great game better. And thats what is so great about this game. if you have a DS and love mario 
 YOU GOTTA BUY THIS if you love super mario 64 and want the adventure to continue. it is totally 
 worth beating and i enjoyed it very much.
  
  its just such a great adventure and a treasured game!!!! a DS game you have to have with your DS 
 at-all-times!!
  
  The Good
  
  All the new features, updated graphics and new stars! Still tthat great ol'e Mario but now hes 
 got some friends! Yoshi, Luigi, and Wario! But still the great ol'e levels!
  
  The Bad
  
  Can be annoying to switch your character and win some hard stars. Some new stars are stupid 
 and keep it from being as good as the original.
  
  All-In-All
  
  8.5 Great! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: P-Roo
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 10, 2007 6:27 am PT
Review:  Unfortunately i can't compare it to the original as i have never played it but SM64DS offers some 
 great game-play and a verity of ways to play. The first point i must make is that you will have 
 to use all the players throughout the game as they all offer different moves and performances. 
 Personally i like the agile Luigi as appose to the well rounded Mario, unique Yoshi and stronger 
 Wario. However i can't only use Luigi as at certain points i will need Wario's strength to break 
 open some boxes to get to a star and yoshi's, temporary, fire breathing abilities (when he hits 
 red boxes.) etc. Also contrary to people opinions this game really shows what kind of graphics 
 the DS can pull off. as Mario triple jumps the screen is perfect, down to the way his legs move. 
 The storyline is alright, but how imaginative are we going to get with Mario? Something else this 
 game offer's is some fun mini-games including a form of 5 draw poker; a game where you have to 
 hit fly guys dotted across the screen and a snowball rolling game, where you have to get to the 
 end of the course before time runs out. However if you only want mini-games by Warioware because 
 these are more of a novelty than a major selling point. Overall SM64DS is probably not as well 
 received as the original but great fun and a long game you can really enjoy, with 150 stars to 
 get. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: schoolsucks2005
Rating: 9.4
Date: Mar 6, 2007 11:26 am PT
Review:  Mario 64 on the Nintendo 64 was an excellent game and to be honest was one of the greatest Mario 
 games ever made IMO, and the port of it is just as good. The graphics are well-improved on and 
 the gameplay is just as good as ever. Also, I love that you get to play as up to 4 characters and 
 each have their own abilities for you to master as you progress through the game, and keeps each 
 fan of the characters satisfied so that you can go either Mario, Luigi, Yoshi or Wario. It is a 
 very fun experience and I enjoy collecting all of the stars, but there is a bit of frustration 
 to go through as well, and a lot of walkthrough reading to find the stars that are hidden away 
 in the game which will take quite a bit of your time. The music is very catchy and just like the 
 original and it has definitely been perfected in the music ripping from the N64 version. Of course 
 the plot was worn out (Bowser kidnaps Princess Peach) but don't nearly all the Mario games follow 
 that plot? (except Super Princess Peach, which was reversed) . The bonus missions of this game are 
 great fun. I enjoyed sliding down the slopes of the snow levels, but I admit getting frustrated 
 over finding the stars over at the top of a ledge (like the one where you had to lead this little 
 monkey in a certain level) and the mini games that you can unlock are good too. Overall, this game 
 still remains one of the greatest platformers around, and if you haven't got this, then I'd strongly 
 recommend it... that is unless you already own the N64 version. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sethnrule
Rating: 9.4
Date: Mar 3, 2007 7:17 am PT
Review:  Super Mario 64 DS is a great game that was made from Super Mario 64 on the Nintendo 64. Its a great 
 game and here's my review on Super Mario 64 DS:
  
  Graphics: The graphics were quite amazing for this especially being on the Nintendo DS. I like 
 what they have done to the graphics.
  
  Controls: The controls were really difficult to get used to and thats why this game isnt perfect. 
 You will eventually get used to it though
  
  Sound: The Sound was good but not the best. I mean sometimes the sound will kind of be off and 
 stuff like that, but the music was great.
  
  Replay Value: Sometimes I pick my DS and will start to play it from time time. Pros: Great remake 
 from the original, fun minigames, more stars, great graphics
  
  Cons: Controls hard to get used to, sometimes difficult camera angles, sound is a little choppy 
 sometimes
  
  Overall: Amazing I give it a 9.5 out of 10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ahj911211
Rating: 9.4
Date: Feb 24, 2007 6:59 am PT
Review:  When I first got this game and found out that there were 150 stars to collect in the castle, I 
 assumed I wouldn't be able to get every single one. Yet, I did. This game is a highly entertaining 
 platformer that could keep you playing until you've got every single one of those 150 stars.
  
  Gameplay: With 15 detailed main levels, 3 bowser levels, and 30 secret stars to adventure through, 
 this is a game worth looking into. The gameplay itself is fun, with a goal always at hand until 
 you get all 150 stars. There are so many moves you can use (including single, double, and triple 
 jumps; ground pound, wall jump, etc...) and even some special moves that are character specific, 
 such as wings for Mario, invisibility for Luigi, metal coating for Wario, and even firebreath for 
 Yoshi. With so many extensive levels to explore, characters to unlock, and places to reach, the 
 gameplay for this game is great.
  
  Graphics: As far as graphics go, I think that a great job overall was done, but they are not 100% 
 perfect.
  
  Sound: Some good tunes and sound effects make the gameplay even better in this game.
  
  Value: 
 As I said before, with so many things to do, the value is great if you go through the whole game.
 
  
  Tilt: Controls are good overall, I found that I was much more successful using the D-pad over the 
 touch screen.
  
  If you are looking for a great 3D platformer, with tons of detailed levels to explore, look no 
 further. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: agpickle
Rating: 9.2
Date: Feb 19, 2007 7:55 pm PT
Review:  when i was younger i played the origonal game at my cousins all the time so when i got my ds i 
 thought it would be fun and it is but it dosent seem as fun its not bad but it just dosnt seem 
 as good. the main problem with ths game is the controls it took me like two weeks to get 90% used 
 to them but every thing else is good about it. it looks good, game play good every thing but the 
 controls and the mini games are very fun and also the multiplayer isnt that good but its ok so 
 overall this game is great and if u have a ds u should eventilaly try this game :) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mortenjohs
Rating: 9.5
Date: Feb 19, 2007 1:14 am PT
Review:  Just a very tiny review of this enhanced DS-version of the 64-bit classic for the Nintendo 64 this 
 morning. Bowser has once more been doing some kidnapping and Mario and his friends mission is 
 to do what they do best; rescuing.
  
  Ive never played the original so the quality of this game caught me by surprise. The gameplay 
 is varied. You climb, jump, run, slide, fly (by f. ex. cap-wings, balloon, canon and/or owl) and 
 search for coins and stars while avoid or beat up various foes. The controls are responsive and 
 feels right. You can choose between classic digital controls, using only the touch screen just 
 for map and to adjust the camera, or a new control scheme using the touch screen as an analog joystick 
 (as well as a map) . The latter takes some getting used to but it is my preferred one once I got 
 into it.
  
  The graphics are colourfull and the 3D-chip in the DS really does a good job at displaying the 
 varied landscapes and effects. The stereo sound is also clear and joyfull. Nothing fancy, though.
 
  
  As an added bonus you get lots and lots of (36 that is) unlockable mini-games (I bought my cartridge 
 second hand, so all were ready from start, since I only deleted the progress of the players in 
 the game and forgot to reset the game completely :) ) - all of them utilizing the stylus and 
 the touch screen. (Empiri has shown that this part of the game can really appeal to both girlfriends 
 and moms.)
  
  I havent had the opportunity to test the games multiplayer mode yet, but the one cartridge for 
 (up to) 4 persons-approach to this is something I can like.
  
  What hinders the game to get the top grade is that the boss games tend to be a tad repetetive and 
 once in a while the camera is behaving annoyingly. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: XDGRifle
Rating: 8
Date: Feb 18, 2007 4:45 pm PT
Review:  Even Though i dont have super Mario 64 DS my friend has it and i always play it. It is a great 
 Remake of the classic nintendo 64 Game. This game is also in 3D Even though MArio 64 was too... 
 In this game your quest is to rescue Princess peach from Bowser (Like Always) and you in the game 
 can switch your characters unlike in Mario 64. And practiclly every Thing Basiclly is the Same. 
 But this is agreat DS Game dont get me wrong but it needs more new features. So this game is pretty 
 good game and it is addicting as well. And the bottom screen map also helps out alot. And you can 
 draw tooooooooooooooo!!!!!!!!!!!!1 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Ubiseewaba
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 14, 2007 9:22 am PT
Review:  Super Mario 64 DS is one of the few games out there that is made perfectly for the Nintendo DS.
 
  
  The story is not much at the beginning but you will know what happened and what you have to do. 
 So it is very understandable.
  The game can be very easy and sometimes it can be a challenge.
  The new characters to the game 
 is one of the best features in the game and is nice to play someone else then Mario all the time 
 (which isn't bad) .
  The mini games are perfect when you are waiting at a hospital, at school breaks, travelling or 
 if you are just plain bored.
  The 30 extra stars in the game is very nice to have because it gives you another reason to keep 
 on playing even it you finally defeated Bowser.
  The graphics are very, very nice and it is an example of the DS's potential of processing 3D.
 
  The music selection for the levels is excellent. The FX are nice and suitable.
  
  It is one of the games you will play whenever and it is worth your money of whatever currency you 
 use to buy this game.
  
  Written by Ubiseewaba 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Dr_Darklance
Rating: 7.8
Date: Feb 11, 2007 2:59 pm PT
Review:  When the Nintendo 64 was launched in 1997 with it along came one of the greatest launch titles 
 ever: Super Mario 64. It was the first good 3D Platformer, featuring unprecedented manoeuver-ability 
 within a 3D space. Not only that it also featured superb level design that Mario games are renown 
 for and all the style and charm of the 2D games remained intact. So it's no wonder that nearly 
 eight years on when the technology of yesteryear is now available in handheld format that Super 
 Mario 64 would be re-released as a Launch title for the Nintendo DS. But is an eight year-old game 
 enough to convince people to go out and buy it all over again? Maybe. But rather than risk it, 
 Nintendo have added thirty stars to the already impressive 120 making for a huge 150 and an array 
 of minigames. Though most of the stars are rather simple 'hit a switch and make it to the star 
 in time' and no new levels are added. The best new addition though is the minigames. There is a 
 huge range of minigames available to you once you unlock them in the main game. Some of the minigames 
 are a blast and others not so much of a blast though overall the quality is good. There is also 
 a multiplayer mode but that isn't really worth talking about.
  
  The single player game remains pretty much the same besides the addition of three other characters 
 including Wario, Luigi and Yoshi. You work your way through brilliantly designed levels, collecting 
 coins, jumping on moving platforms, getting shot out of a cannon and sliding down giant floating 
 racecourses. The main problem is the lack of an analogue stick on the DS. You can use the D-Pad 
 or move the thumb nub about on the touch screen. Neither of these methods feels natural and as 
 a result it makes the game a lot more difficult than it should be. Constantly falling off things 
 and fighting with the controls really hampers the game experience. It's a shame because the game 
 underneath is really good. Unless you really want the minigames I would recommend downloading the 
 original Super Mario 64 from the Wii Virtual Console and play it on the big screen with a Gamecube 
 controller. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Trpjazz
Rating: 8.8
Date: Jan 14, 2007 7:46 pm PT
Review:  Super Mario 64 for the N64 was probably one of the best games of all time. It was the start of 
 the 3-D platformer genre. It was wonderfully made.
  
  Super Mario 64 DS has awesome graphics that top the N64 by far. The animations are fairly smooth 
 and the characters are not as blocked and appear more slick. The stereo sound sounds wonderful. 
 Also, the SFX from the minigames are pretty sweet and are what you'd expect from a Gamecube game.
 
  You'll be playing this game for a long time and even after you beat Bowser you'll want to go through 
 and collect all of the stars.
  What's different in this version of the game rally makes you go hummm. That's cool. There are a 
 few new rooms in the castle, new worlds, mini-games, more stars to collect, and of course the addition 
 of being able to play as Luigi, Wario, and Yoshi.
  If you have a DS you should already have Super Mario 64 DS. For the new DS owners.... this game 
 is a classic so try it... it will be the best game for the ds for a while to come 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Darkbrady
Rating: 8.7
Date: Jan 14, 2007 6:11 pm PT
Review:  The classic Mario game from N64 where Mario was summoned to save Peach from the malicious Bowser 
 from her castle has been revived and juiced! The same game and storyline, controls and features 
 keeps what made it brilliant just the same, but has been been bettered with more features.
  
  This time Wario, Luigi and even Yoshi have been recruited to assist in Peach's rescue. Each 
 character has their own characteristics which makes them unique through the gameplay and can interact 
 with the environment in their own ways, forcing you to repeat levels with diferent characters for 
 different outcomes and prizes and decide and choose who to take where and when to use them. This 
 may sound like a bad thing, but it definitely is not. Levels are large and full so repeating them 
 isn't tiring and same-same as some of the 2D versions could get, and made yet more diverse when 
 roaming with different characters, furthered again by the fact that by the time you repeat earlier 
 levels with later released characters you will have long since left that level and would be quite 
 happy to return to other levels again.
  
  There aer plenty more stars to collect to fill up your inventory and unlock the cannon outside 
 the castle and various new levels armoured with mini-bosses for rescuing your other partners. After 
 that there is even the Multiplayer features to keep you entertained for longer yet and duke it 
 out with your friends. The controls are just the same as they always were so those with N64 experience 
 needn't worry about learning it again, but it has extra controls to spice it up. The touch screen 
 introduces another form of playing if you so choose and can simplify certain difficulties from 
 the past. The top screen has only the map, but that is truly a blessing as you can race along through 
 harder, faster levels without having to switch about screens and just glance up at the map and 
 keep your bottom screen clear and full.
  
  A masterpiece from it's own day, rejuvinated and fuller of life than ever, only been bettered and 
 has become more enjoyeable and challenging for all! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: blackrytonite
Rating: 9.1
Date: Feb 6, 2007 1:37 am PT
Review:  Super Mario 64 DS is an update of the popular N64 game released in 1996. Now on handheld, this 
 game offers plenty of depth and gameplay for almost everyone to enjoy. Let's take a look at some 
 of the basics.
  
  You can now play as Yoshi, Wario and Luigi besides Mario. Each charactor has their own special 
 abilities to retrieve stars, fight enemies, and get through obsticles with. Oddly enough, you start 
 the game out with Yoshi, but can unlock Mario and the rest of the crew later.
  
  Instead of 120 stars like the original, this version has 150 for extra challenge. Remember that 
 rabbit from the original? Well, there are alot more in this one, and they don't give you stars. 
 By catching rabbits throughout adventure mode, you can unlock mini games. You get 8 to start out 
 with, though. And might I add that the minigames are quite fun:)
  
  Now onto my opinion of the game:
  
  Gameplay-SM64DS is filled with alot of depth. How can it 
 not be? It's basically the same game as on the n64, plus plenty of extras. The controls take a 
 bit getting used to, and the camera can get glitchy but those are very minor problems. Graphics-Very 
 pretty, nice animation. The water looks especially good in my opinion. Also updated from the n64 
 game, the graphics are wonderful on the ds.
  
  Value-You can't really go wrong. This game will keep you busy for a while, between collecting 150 
 stars and unlocking mini games:) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: brownthrilla
Rating: 8.4
Date: Jan 3, 2007 5:51 pm PT
Review:  This game is just like the Nintendo 64 version except with many improvements and add-ons. What's 
 this? Peach is lost again? Can't she just stay putt without having a suicidal dinosaur kidnapping 
 her? Guess not. Mario is off again to save Princess Peach who has been kidnapped by Bowser... again. 
 You basically just jump into paintings and do tasks to get stars which unlock other doors for you. 
 The new feature in this game is playing as other characters. You start out with Yoshi, and can 
 get keys and unlock the doors that the other characters are locked in. Another cool feature is 
 the mini games. There are fun new mini games you can get from getting stars. Some involve using 
 the stylus. Also, there is the multiplayer games you can play through wirleess (not online) . Overall, 
 this is a fun game aimed at younger children to old school adult gamers. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: shengongwu3000
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 31, 2006 5:26 pm PT
Review:  Ever since Nintendo DS arrive to America, I like this game because it is really similar to the 
 original N64 version. Except there have been some changes in the game. Luigi, Wario, and Yoshi 
 are added to this game as the main characters. Each have their own unique abilities and powers. 
 Mario can still fly in the sky with wings on his red hat or as a human balloon. Luigi can run on 
 water within seconds and become intangible; meaning he can phase through caged walls. Wario is 
 super strong that he can lift and carry any heavy character around, and he can turn into walking 
 metal figure. Yoshi can breathe fire like a dragon, lay eggs after swallowing his enemies, and 
 throw them at his enemies. The graphics and designs are just better than ever. Although it was 
 hard to control the 3D game through the Nintendo DS. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Jerkofski
Rating: 8.8
Date: Dec 22, 2006 7:36 pm PT
Review:  First, I should get out of the way that if you despise the little plumber known as Mario, you should 
 still check this out. The graphics are really quite amazing. I mean it's like you took your N64 
 and shoved it into a little handheld system. The graphics are just like the original. Though there 
 are still a lot of bugs such as when Mario's hand slips through the wall, but that still happens 
 in some newer games like GTA. I wouldn't be suprised if they had taken the original and just reduced 
 the file size. Actually no
  it looks to good to be the original.
  
  The controls are very versitile. One way to control our little friends is to place the stylus on 
 the touch screen and use the target shown as a little analog stick. With this method you can set 
 it so that either the d-pad or the A, B, Y, and X buttons can be used to jump, punch, kick, etc. 
 Another method is to simply use the d-pad to move. Then you can use the A, B, Y, and X buttons to 
 control jumping, attacking, camera view (L is also used) , and running. I find the latter of the 
 methods to be more useful. The sound is crisp, clear and enjoyable. What else is there The storyline 
 I think, although along the same lines as the N64 version, is much more engaging and complicated. 
 I like complicated. Gameplay is awesome in this game. It is much like the original, but there are 
 many good differences. For one, there are 3 new characters to play with. They are Luigi (the man 
 in green) , Yoshi (the green and red dinosaur) , and Wario ( the big tub-o-lard in yellow) . There 
 are more stars. In fact, there are 30 more! And finally, there are less bloody hats to collect
 
  (thank you god) . This game has been at the top of my list of games to beat. Just about every aspect 
 of the game rocked out loud. It was fun. Just plain fun. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: YoungStacks
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 17, 2006 5:46 pm PT
Review:  Gameplay: As with most mario games the usual jumping and running. the touch screen is use to control 
 your character (if you want) and its used as a map, many mini game to be unlocked excellent game 
 play plus wireless play and you can now play with mario, yoshi, lugi and wario. different characters 
 has different abilities and some run faster than others or some has more power and when a character 
 gets a power flower they gain special abilities. Yoshi can blow fire, mario can float ,luigi can 
 turn invisible and wario can turn into metal . controls are frustrating sometimes. I like the use 
 of the touch screen on mini games. Graphic: Strong graphics a big update to the ds Sound: On the 
 ds its better than I expected. good music good background sounds and all but mostly the same as 
 before with a few extras throw in.
  
  Value: If you have an ds this one is a must have for all gamers tons of secrets to unlock , mini 
 games and you'll have a blast.
  
  Overall: 9.0 
::::::

::::::
UserName: -Brandon-
Rating: 8.4
Date: Dec 15, 2006 10:54 pm PT
Review:  Gameplay:
  This game has good game play plus the wireless multiplay... And the touch screen acts as the map, 
 camera control, and the controls for the mini games you get for completing different things.
  
  Graphics:
  These graphics took a good update from N64 version to NDS Version!
  Plus they 
 did a great job making the graphics into less pixely, like where you can see the pixels easily 
 ;)
  
  Sound:
  The sound is better on the NDS plus the surround sound makes it sound way better, plus the music 
 is better, like i said surround sound is the way to go with this game.
  
  Value:
  This game is worth getting if you like classic N64 mario games and plus the new features like mini 
 games and multiplayer and touch screen stuff.
  You can find the game at local game stores for like $29.99 USD! so give it a try :) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: joshman940
Rating: 8.8
Date: Dec 13, 2006 12:53 pm PT
Review:  This game has great graphics for the DS and it can be used with the touch screen. If I were you 
 then I would go buy this game right now because it is good and has the same levels as the old one. 
 If you have the old super mario 64 for nintendo 64 then you now this game is good although it is 
 still the same but with better graphics it is really fun. If you do not have this game for the 
 nintendo 64 then this is all new and cool to you. This is also good because you have no loading 
 time at all woo-hoo. Well thats all for this reveiw now read my other reviews that is if you liked 
 this review and I hope you did so bye adios Hola oh forget it just quit reading.
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
  
  
  
  Still nothing down here wow are my reviews short oh well. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: PoeTokoro
Rating: 8.4
Date: Dec 8, 2006 6:05 am PT
Review:  Ok, this is Poe Tokoro and I'm here to give you my review of Super Mario 64 DS. Let's get straight 
 into this.
  
  Gameplay: The game's controls are very difficult to understand, for people who never played the 
 original will have an easier time adapting to the D-pad. The touch controls just don't work as 
 good as analog stick, there fun to try out but nothing more.
  
  Graphics: This game has simply stunning graphics compared to the original, and shows how good the 
 DS really is. But there are some really blocky images that are kind of awkward to look at after 
 you've been playing GC, XBOX, and PS2. Sound: The music is great, although the level music just 
 isn't near as good as the minigame's music is. The minigame music consist of sounds from Super 
 Mario Sunshine. The sound the characters make are really well done, well all except Mario. Not 
 all of Mario's voice is bad but some of the voice overs are SM64 voice overs pulled over to go 
 on the DS. The transition rarely shows, but when it does it is absolute horror.
  
  Value: For $30, this game is totally worth it I'm still playing it and I have had it for 1 and 
 half years. The minigames aren't bad, the single player is loaded with content, the multiplayer 
 should at least be tried once.
  
  Overall: Buy it if you never played the original, Rent it if you played the 1st, but want to see 
 the new content, or if your just looking for a game that will keep you busy for a month or 2 buy 
 it! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Genuma
Rating: 9.2
Date: Dec 6, 2006 6:09 pm PT
Review:  Well I'm a big fan of the original game. This game was really excellent. It added new features 
 and still remained true. My biggest letdown was I was so used to N64 controls. The extra character 
 felt tacked on at times but were also pretty fun. The good parts were new characters, the keys, 
 and the minigames. In my opinion the original was more revolutionary, but this one is a better 
 game. If you had a choice between the original or this, go for this. If you are picking up a DS, 
 this is a good game to start with. It shows the new controls at a basic level but still makes a 
 fun game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DeathaXx98
Rating: 9.2
Date: Dec 4, 2006 2:20 pm PT
Review:  This game is a great remake of the Nintendo 64 classic. Fun new characters to play as such as Yoshi, 
 Luigi, and even Wario. But I am afraid to say the most fans of the original, like myself, will 
 be dissapointed. This game is great for DS because you can play anywhere when you're bored. The 
 bad thing is that they took out the things that made it classic. There is no more metal cap and 
 vanishing cap. Now they are specials used by Wario and Luigi. This game gets kind of annoying when 
 you have to change characters to get stars that were easy to get in the original. But this doesn't 
 mean the game does not have any good qualities. This Game offers 36 new mini games. At least 90% 
 of these mini games will help you kill hours of time when you are bored out of your mind. This 
 game may not have the classicness i was hoping for, but it still is definetley worth picking up. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: liverpoolraj
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 3, 2006 1:04 pm PT
Review:  This game is a copy of the origional N64 version of Super Mario. It has been slightly oltered and 
 looks slightly better. For 1 you can go diffrent characters a choice between Mario, Luigi, Wario 
 and Yoshi. 2. there are a few more stars hidden around the castle. 3 it isnt as good when you go 
 to the top of the castle once getting all the stars. If you are unfimilur with the plot then Iwill 
 tell it in a few easy steps:
  1. Bowser ( the evil odd looking turtle with a spikey shell and is massive) steals Princess pPeach 
 ( mario's girlfriend)
  2. Mario trys to save Peach so he goes to her castle where Bowser is hidden
  3. Mario finds out 
 he needs stars to fight Bowser so he has to get them from diffrent levels. 4. Thats where you come 
 in and try to get the stars.
  5. The other characters jump in for the effect. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: malachi_27
Rating: 8.3
Date: Nov 30, 2006 6:16 pm PT
Review:  Super Mario 64 DS is one of the best, if not THE best, 3-D platformer for the DS. I loved it on 
 the 64, and it; s even better on this, at least I think so!
  Graphics are a lot better than the ones on the 64. And they are very good for a DS! Though it does 
 look bad in very brief and unnoticeable places. I think you'll agree with them.
  Gameplay isn't as easy as it was on the 64 because you don't have an analog stick, but I think 
 you will get used to them.
  Sound is wonderful, everything sounds great!
  Value pf the game is definately great! They added 30 more stars for you to find in the game! That 
 was pretty impressive!
  If you have a DS, and you want a great platformer, you must get Super Mario 64 DS! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: LOZFAN6537
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 30, 2006 2:41 pm PT
Review:  When Super Mario 64 came it changed the way you could play a video game for good. Now the revolutionary 
 game is available for the Nintendo DS and is one of the best reasons to own a DS. Mario 64 DS has 
 the 15 stages from the original and almost all of the stars you could get are here but some have 
 been changed and thirty new stars have been added on making the total amount of stars 150 instead 
 of the 120 in the original version. Some of the other changes that have been made are the ability 
 to play as Luigi, Wario, and Yoshi you begin as Yoshi but will soon unlock the other three characters. 
 With there being four characters stratagy is nessacary because you need to know which character 
 you need for a certain star while Mario may work for one the next star you may need Yoshi. The 
 other new addition is a VS. Mode in which you can battle up to three people at a time in the VS. 
 Mode you will have to find stars hidden in the area whoever has the most stars at the end of the 
 round will win the multiplayer is fun for a little while but will soon get boring. The game still 
 controls great but the D-Pad can be annoying and is harder to use then it is to use an analog stick 
 but other then that the game controls great. The graphics are pretty much the same as the N64 version 
 and at times even looks better. The sound hasn't changed a bit and still has the fantastic soundtrack 
 featured in the original and all of the sound effects are still there but the game doesn't sound 
 as good on a handheld as it did on a TV. Super Mario 64 DS is an excellent recreation of a fantastic 
 game with 150 stars to collect this game will keep you occupied for a very long time.
  
  ~LOZFAN6537 
::::::

::::::
UserName: xize
Rating: 8.3
Date: Nov 29, 2006 8:49 am PT
Review:  A realy good game from nintendo only my harmed things like its a rip off the game but the sound 
 is better great multiplayer ive found a little cheat code from some friends! the gameplay is good 
 to .diffrent missions is a good sign for all hardcore gamers! only by that bomb level there you 
 have a shoot cannon read? i hate i cant almost jump there in. but the graphics are realy much better 
 than the n64! the last boss (bowser) can be stonger! because i had owned him in one time! its a 
 realy good oldskool game because its a remake of the old game! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: game_guy2500
Rating: 8.8
Date: Nov 28, 2006 3:32 pm PT
Review:  Super Mario 64 is often considered the best game on N64, and living proof that the 64 can deliver 
 some extremely wicked games. So, to give the DS a head start on good games, Nintendo released the 
 remake of Super Mario 64 on DS at launch. The controls are not at all bad, to be fair they do lack 
 a little precision compared to the N64 controller, but overall it doesn't take too long to get 
 into the game and find the controls quite comfortable.
  
  First of, you'll notice a few differences with the opening. Mario, Wario, and Luigi all pop up 
 out of pipes and head into the castle. So, you have to start the game as Yoshi and try and save 
 Mario since he doesn't ever come back out of the castle. I'd imagine you already know about the 
 characters in the game, it isn't just Mario this time around, but in my opinion, it might as well 
 be. Mainly because all the characters controls almost identical to him anyway, and still it might 
 look cool to be running around as Wario, or Yoshi, it doesn't really feel much different. And personally 
 I hate not being able to be metal Mario, because Wario gets that ability in the game, and it isn't 
 like it's anything new, just an ability Mario originally had in the N64 version. And that is really 
 all the other characters do, except Yoshi has a bit more unique abilities, he can breathe fire 
 and turn enemies into eggs. Still, I can't help but think I'd rather play the entire game as good 
 old Mario, and get my metal power back!
  
  Graphically, the game actually isn't really improving over the 64 version. It all looks pretty 
 much the same and wonderful on DS. But some of the stuff shouldn't of been messed around with. 
 Yoshi is the most impressive character model in the game to me, and Bowser also looks exceptionally 
 nice. However, I think Mario was actually less jagged in the original N64 version then here. And 
 the koopas also looked better on the previous version. Mabye I shouldn't be complaining about things 
 like this, because all the things in the game still look very good, but why change these small 
 things if it only comes out not as good as before?
  
  Okay, enough complaining, let me tell you what this game has to offer that is good. First of all, 
 I very happy to see all the areas from the original still intact, plus some new ones. And the game 
 has 30 more stars to collect. Another great addition is the mini-games. They are all very fun and 
 use the touch screen only. So if you're bored, you can find some serious entertainment with these 
 mini-games. It has everything from card matching (like in SMB3) to launching mario through hoops 
 in the sky. They add alot of value to the game, as if the game didn't have enough value already.
 
  
  I'm so greatful that all music and sound has been imported from the original flawlessly, because 
 Super Mario 64 had some of my favorite game music ever, and I was afraid that they might've reduced 
 the quality. But no, it is all in there and sounds great.
  
  I can definitely reccomend this title for DS, because it has alot of value and is very faithful 
 to the original, but not too faithful. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Preese24AP
Rating: 8.9
Date: Nov 28, 2006 1:55 pm PT
Review:  like i said this is great remake from the N64 original. but now with more characters. better graphics 
 and mainly more fun!
  
  Gameplay 9/10: the gameplay for this game is really fun to play around with. espcielly with the 
 new characters: Yoshi, Luigi and Wario. and of course you still got that red plumber Mario. these 
 new charcters have seperate special abilties which used to be all to mario on the N64 version but 
 now for sperate people. Mario floats to reach hard places, Yoshis spits fire to burn people or 
 take out ice blocks, Luigi can become invisable to reach stars in cages and Wario as Metal Wario 
 to sink under water or just to kick some ***. but you dont automaticly start with all the characters 
 you have to unlock them. you first start with yoshi and work your way up. But each person have 
 there seperate stats and great moves.
  
  Graphics 9/10 : this game was a release title for the DS (i think) and it had pretty decent graphics 
 to back up the gameplay. these graphics are little better then the N64 i think. the chacters and 
 the enemys look good and move well. the Bom-omb explostions look nice to =] .
  
  Sound 8/10 this game has some pretty good sound also. when mario or anyone else jumps, slides, attacks 
 or just gets pwned sounds good. but Wario can get a little annoying he has a pretty gay sounding 
 voice. but besides of that the music is good and fits with the game.
  
  Value 9/10 : this games story can be challenging sometimes and it is time well spent. but this 
 game is pretty addicting i played thids game till 6A. M maybe im just a little weird or something 
 but this game is deffinaly fun!
  
  Tilt 9/10: i got a high tilt because i think this is a great game not supurb but very close to 
 that. if you got some pocket change of like $20 buy Super Mario 64 DS 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GungraveZero
Rating: 9.4
Date: Nov 27, 2006 12:57 pm PT
Review:  Now, most might argue that this game is dissapointing compared to the N64 version and while it 
 might be true in some cases, there isn't much to worry about.
  
  Controls: This is the problem most people have with the game. While they aren't perfect, they certainly 
 aren't bad either. There might be a few times where you mess up, but most of the time you should 
 be all right. If you have huge hands, by that meaning you're over 6'1'' or so (people that size 
 usually have bg hands) , you might experience problems more often than others I'm assuming. Take 
 your time and get a feel for it and no matter what size your hands are, in a few tries the controls 
 will feel fine.
  
  Graphics &amp; Sound: One thing to say about the graphics is they look better than the N64 version 
 and are great to look at. The sound sounds just as good if no better if you ask me. With the addition 
 of a few new smalls tracks here and there you'll find some more Mario tunes to jam to.
  
  Gameplay: It's simply fantastic. The only problem i seem to have is I find it too easy sometimes 
 to find items with the help of the bottom screen. I don't mind the map being there, but I don't 
 need to be spoon fed through most of the game as to where items are. The new characters add some 
 more fun to the game as well and with a few new levels AND stars you'll have plenty to do for a 
 long time.
  
  All in all it's a nice game and if you can find it you should pick it up. For a game that came 
 around 7+ years ago you'd expect it to be cheaper, but you get what you pay for and you pay for 
 alot. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: savetherocks
Rating: 9.4
Date: Nov 25, 2006 8:19 pm PT
Review:  I got Super Mario 64 DS yesterday, and man, it'll knock your socks off even if you're not wearing 
 socks! Game play: 8
  This game is spectacular and outrageously fun to play, but there are only just a few problems with 
 the camera at times.
  
  Graphics: 10
  The colorful 3D graphics of Super Mario 64 DS are great for people who love realistic picture.
 
  
  Sound: 10
  The booming surround sound of this game can be heard from someone who's deaf.
  
  Value: 10
 
  This game is a game with a great after-beat interest, and is a must-have for the Nintendo DS.
 
  
  Tilt: 10
  I'm not really sure what this is, but it must rock for this game!
  
  All in all, this is a great game, and is surprisingly good for its time. (2004) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gameguru43
Rating: 9.2
Date: Nov 23, 2006 8:17 am PT
Review:  Ahh! I remember When I got my N64 back in the day. and i was so excited to get Super mario64. I 
 played that game nonstop. I even mastered it. When i heard they were coming out with super mario64ds 
 i was so excited to get that . just like when i was 11. The story is the same save the princess 
 from the evil clutches of bowser. we all know that one. But this time You not only get to play 
 as mario but the whole gang. Yoshi, wario and luigi. Each character has a unique power that helps 
 you get further in the game. although they are the same powers that were in the 64 version like. 
 luigi can turn invisible, wario can be solid metal. but yoshi, my fav can eat things and make eggs. 
 and yoshi can also gulp fire and melt ice. The level design is still the same. and there are these 
 colored rabbits each character has to get. when you get all of them you get a star. that was a 
 little lame. The minigames are pretty boring also. but the feeling that your playing a classic 
 makes up for all the weak touch ups. You do sometimes need the analog stick to move and race, but 
 thats pretty much it.
  If your a mario fan like I am pick this game up
  *Brandon* 
::::::

::::::
UserName: derekstiles2012
Rating: 9.7
Date: Nov 17, 2006 11:41 am PT
Review:  i have had this game for to months and havnt touched it but in the last three days i have been 
 playing it non stop got 107 stars in 3 days and its reeally brought out what it can do you go and 
 buy it NOW
  
  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. . . . . . . . . 
 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. . . . . 
 . . . . . . . . . . . . .. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: freddyjasonmyer
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 17, 2006 3:19 am PT
Review:  SUPER MARIO 64 THE GOOD OLD GAME ON THE DS IS JUST BRILLIANT WITH THE NEW FEATURES. NEW FEATURES- 
 NEW CHARACTERS MORE STARS TO COLLECT 150 MARIO AND BOWSER LOOK MORE DETAILED THAN 64 VERSION AND 
 COOL MINI GAMES WITH THE TOUCH SCREEN SOME MISSIONS HAVE BEEN CHANGED. IT JUST LOOKS BRILLIANT 
 ON A LITTLE HAND HELD CONSOLE. FOR PEOPLE WHO DONT HAVE A DS AND WOULD READ REVIEWES I SHALL TELL. 
 DEAR MARIO I HAVE BAKED A CAKE FOR YOU YOURES TRULY PEACH INTRO- MARIO, LUIGI, WARIO GO TO PEACHES 
 CASTLE TO GO MEET HER BUT, AFTER A LONG WHILE THEY HAD NOT COME BACK YET. YOSHI IS WOKEN BY LAKITU. THEN 
 YOU ARE PLAYING THE GAME. YOU FIND THAT THE ENTRANCE DOOR IS LOCKED! LAKITU TELLS YOU THAT A RABBIT 
 HAD THE KEY. GO AND SWALLOW THE RABBIT THEN THE KEY IS YOURES THEN THE STAR HUNTING ADVENTURE BEGINS! WHEN 
 MY GRANDAD BOUGHT IT FROM THE MALL I THOUGHT I WOULD BE GREAT AT IT. I HAD PLAYED IT WHEN I WAS 
 SIX I PLAYED IT ON THE NINTENDO 64. ANAY WAY HERE IS SOME FUNNY STUFF! TRICKS- BULLY RAPES MARIO! 
 ON LETHAL HOT LAVA LAND GO IN THE VOLCANO THEN GO TO THE BULLIE THEN GO TO THE LEDGE THEN WAIT 
 THERE. LET THE BBULLIE PUSH YOU. IT WILL LOOK LIKE IT IS HUMPING YOU. FUNNY AINT IT! YOSHI LICKS TOAD! 
 GET YOSHI AS THE CHARACTER THEN GO TO A TOAD. GET AT A DISTANCE IN FRONT OF HIM. THEN PRESS A. IF 
 THE TOUNGE HITS TOADS FACE THEN IT WILL LOOK LIKE YOSHI IS LICKING TOAD! LOL! RIGHT ENOUGH OF THE 
 FUNNY STUFF ON TO THE TRICKS! CHAIN CHOMP GOES UP- (I PREFER YOSHI) AS YOSHI GO TO BOMB OMB BATTLE 
 FEILD LEVEL. GO TO THE BIT TO THE RIGHT OF THE CHAIN CHOMP THEN SWALLOW A BOMB OMB THEN HIT IT AT 
 CHAIN CHOMP. CHAIN CHOMP WILL STRETCH UP HIGH WITH HIS CHAIN. DO IT WITH A GOOMBA THEN WAIT TILL 
 IT IS A EGG THEN HIT CHAIN CHOMP WITH THE EGG TO GET COINS 3 OR 4. RAP MARIO-HOLD R THEN PRESS 
 A THEN PRESS B THEN RX2 THEN B THEN R AND A. DO IT AT A NORMAL STYLE OF SPEED. LOOKS LIKE MARIOS 
 DANCING IN RAP STYLE! EASY BOWSER KILL-ARE YOU BAD AT AIMING FOR THE SPIKE BALLS? THEN WHEN YOU 
 GRAB BOWSER BY THE TAIL SWING HIM 2-3 TIMES THEN THROW IN DIRECTION OF THE SPIKE BALL. KEEP DOING 
 IT UN TIL YOU WIN! A COOL HIGH RIDE- WHEN AT KING BOMBOMB LET HIM THROW YOU AT THE EDGE. YOU SHALL 
 GET A COOL RIDE! WELL THATS TRICKS I CAN THINK OF. NOW WHAT I THINK OF THE GAME. WHAT I THINK-I 
 THINK THE GAME IS FUN AND CHALLENGING WITH GREAT MUSIC. I MUST SAY NINTENDO OUT DONE THERE SELVES. I 
 LIKE MARIO BECAUSCE 1. HE, S COOL 2. HIS GAME ARE JUST GOOD ON THE STORY LINES AND CHARACTERS 3. THIS 
 GAME ROCKED FOR NINTENDO 64! WELL NINTENDO I THINK YOU ROCK! I HOPE PEOPLE LOVE THIS GREAT ADVENTURE 
 PLATFORMOR. BUY IT NOW! 29.99 GAME WHERE I BOUGHT IT NEXT TIME ON MY REVIWE FOR MARIO 64 DS I SHALL 
 DO A WALK THROUGH AND SOME MORE TRICKS! I GIVE THIS GAME 7/10 QUITE A GOOD SCORE! BUY IT YOU WILL 
 ENJOY IT! LISTEN CANT YOU HEAR PEACH, MARIO, LUIGI, WARIO CALLING SAVE THEM NOW! DESTROY BOWSER THE 
 EVIL DRAGON THAT POSSESES THE STARS COLLECT 150 
::::::

::::::
UserName: -Zills-
Rating: 8.8
Date: Jan 11, 2007 12:18 pm PT
Review:  The added characters makes this game twice as good as the old one and being able to play one of 
 my favorite N64 games anywhere makes it three times as good. If you loved the original you will 
 love this game this game was the reason i bought a DS when they came out. Yes it is very similiar 
 to the original but multiplayer, new characters and mini games make up for all that. The graphics 
 in this game are the best any DS game has had hands down and this game will provide you months 
 of enjoyment. This is a must buy if you like Mario games don't miss out on the best game for DS. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Biendeo
Rating: 8.7
Date: Nov 13, 2006 12:21 am PT
Review:  Super Mario 64 DS is a remake of the 1996 N64 game of Super Mario 64. The game still features Mario, 
 Luigi and Wario but also has Yoshi which changes it a little. Instead of Mario coming out of the 
 pipe and then start the game, all 3 jump out and head to the castle with Yoshi sleeping on the 
 roof of the castle. The Lakitu watched it all and told Yoshi that they haven't returned. Yoshi 
 finds out about this stuff later in the game and gameplay still is the same. The graphics have 
 been seriously updated as the characters are really pure. Every character looks nice. Bowser is 
 also looking much better and the sound is still a lot annoying but is not as loud. You need to 
 collect all 150 power stars in the game from each of the 15 courses which contain 8 each, but where 
 are the remaining 30? There are some secret places in the castle that you need to look for, they 
 are cleverly placed. There is this big room with a mirror and when you get past it, in the door 
 is a blank room with the power star. The characters have special powers as there is the Power Flower 
 which lets them be stronger temporarily. Mario can blow up and float, Yoshi can spit fire, Wario 
 can turn into metal and Luigi can turn invisible and ghost-like. Mario can also get wings and fly. 
 To rescue someone, you need to find a stage and somewhere in there is the boss. Beat him and a 
 key is dropped. The character is locked in the door. Each character also has their own skills. 
 Yoshi is a great jumper though terrible at his strength, Mario is evened out but can do wall jumps, 
 Luigi can jump high and Wario can break hard bricks. This game is great but is not something for 
 people who can still play the N64 version. Concluding this is resulting that this gae is addictive 
 but short. The extra 28 minigames are still quite fun and the multi-player is sort of good but 
 the main game is why you would get this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sonicwolf359
Rating: 9.8
Date: Nov 12, 2006 8:31 pm PT
Review:  Super Mario 64 DS is nothing far from incredible for a DS game. The game holds up well even in 
 its Nintendo 64 Incarnation, but with a plethora of addicting minigames, Improved graphics, Extra 
 levels and New characters and abilities, this game just became a whole lot better.
  The way Nintendo executed the games remake creates an almost new adventure. The mix of new maps, 
 unlockables and storyline tweaks make the game worthwhile for purchase anyday. The Multiplayer 
 is small, but it can be interesting and amusing with more than 2 people. It just goes to show that 
 Remakes can be more fun than the original! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: minisheep56
Rating: 9.6
Date: Nov 12, 2006 8:10 am PT
Review:  This game is a great game to get as your 1st ds game it offers you a huge story mode, laods of mini-games, download 
 ds multi-play, and it lets you doodle and muck up your drawing!!! the adventure mode is great and 
 it help you unlock tonnes of mini-games.
  Its a great re-make, possibly better than the original and is a generally fun game. It offers you 
 a range of 4 characters (yoshi, mario, luigi and even wario) as in the original you could only 
 play as mario. It has Extremely good graphics for the ds console even though its a very big game 
 and there is always music in the background.
  The mini games are brilliant i am still not tired of them and Ive had this game since 2005, its 
 a must buy if you see it on the shelf. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DOA_Syndrome67F
Rating: 8.7
Date: Nov 9, 2006 5:01 pm PT
Review:  Nintendo, on the N64, struck hard cash with Super mario 64. Now it's on the DS. Because it's DS, 
 the game is portable, but a little dampened down. The game is still worth playing. story (reviewer's 
 tilt) : Princess peach has been stolen by bowser (Naw... really?!?) . It's up to mario and co. to 
 save her (for the millionth time) . You start out as yoshi as you progress through the story. You 
 can gain other partners: Mario (required for story) , and others too. Gameplay: The game is a 3-D 
 adventure where you collect a certain amount of stars to access areas and rescue peach. Graphics: 
 The graphics are good for a handheld because it's in 3-D!!! The graphics have many glitches like 
 the see-through walls. the camera is also a little pesky, but the graphics are good anyways. Sound: 
 all the sounds and music are imported from the 64 version. The sounds are crisp and clean, while 
 the songs aren't annoying or in the way. Value: You only have to get a certain number of stars 
 to beat the game, but there are 120 (or 150 [?] ) in all. because of that, the game can play on 
 until you get all of them. I stuck to the story and quit after that, but it is possible to get 
 all the stars. There are also many unlockable mini games for each character.
  
  Final: 8.7 out of average. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ToaInikaJaller
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 7, 2006 6:03 pm PT
Review:  Super Mario 64 DS could be the best DS game ever. Great Graphics, with only slight camera problems. 
 Once you just get one star, you may not be able to stop getting any more.
  
  The use of Touch Screen is optional, and with 3 Control Modes, It's certianly helpful.
  And, 
 its the game with the most freedom on the DS. And, you can't just go and say I'll get the Yoshi's 
 Ice Sculptyure Star With Wario , because some stars require certain characters, like Forsty Slide 
 for 8 Red Coins requires Yoshi.
  
  So, In other words, If you do not have this game yet, Get it. It is fantastic. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: verdugoRE4
Rating: 8.7
Date: Nov 2, 2006 7:05 am PT
Review:  The good: still the fun, revolutionary game that you played before and has many good extras.
  The bad: Gameplay is not as refined as the N64 version. camera has noticeable flaws. Super mario 
 64 ds is a great adaptation to the original. As in the first version, you play as mario who is 
 trying to collect the power stars which are holed up in peach's castle. To do this you have to 
 go and explore the many worlds in the paintings featured in many rooms and such in the castle. 
 Eventually you will fight bowser, kick his ass, and beat the game. The gameplay is one thing that 
 gets this game off to a bit of a bad start. While it is fairly easy to control mario in the ds 
 version, the original had better control and camera. to put it short the gameplay will get a bit 
 of time to get used to, and from there it is no problem. The graphics are very good. They are not 
 as spatially detailed or refined as the N64 version..... but they hold up fantasticly. The sound 
 is great. It is about the same as the original's soundbase and track. Overall? I encourage you 
 to buy this game if you haven't heard of the mario series. If you liked the original this will 
 be a lot of fun for those who enjoyed the original. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: curtizio
Rating: 9.6
Date: Oct 31, 2006 2:46 pm PT
Review:  It's-a Mario! One of his greatest adventures ever gets an overhaul for the touch screen generation.
 
  
  150 stars to collect Four playable characters More than two dozen touch-screen, dual-screen mini-games
 
  
  Super Mario 64 DS starts out a bit differently than the original game. Mario, Yoshi, Luigi, and 
 Wario are invited to Princess Peachs castle to enjoy some cake. Yoshi falls asleep on top of the 
 castle while waiting for the other three characters to show up. When they do finally arrive they 
 end up disappearing inside the castle walls. Its up to Yoshi to rescue the other three characters 
 and together they will need to free the imprisoned princess from Bowsers evil clutches. Each character 
 has his different set of moves and special powers. Yoshi has his extended jump and can eat enemies 
 and throw homing eggs to take out bad guys. If you find a fire flower he will be able to shoot 
 out flames from his mouth. Mario has his standard set of moves, but new to this version is his 
 ability to find mushrooms to become super-sized and walk over enemies and other obstacles with 
 ease. If he comes across a fire flower he inflates into a gigantic balloon and can hover across 
 bottomless pits and reach new areas in the levels. Luigi can jump far and can turn invisible with 
 the proper power-up. Wario can break certain blocks and turn to metal so he can sink to the bottom 
 of water areas. Each character has limitations too. For example, Yoshi cant pick enemies up, which 
 creates new challenges to solve. The first boss is a giant Bob-Omb. In the original game Mario 
 would pick him up and throw him. In this version when you play as Yoshi you have to eat the small 
 bombs and spit them back out at the big bomb to blow him up. Scattered across the different levels 
 are hats for the other characters. If you nab the hat, your character will transform into that 
 specific character, complete with his move set and power-up abilities. So, if you go to Bowsers 
 level and try to beat him with Yoshi, you will need to nab Marios cap so you can grab Bowsers 
 tail and throw him. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: quetzalcoatl45
Rating: 9.6
Date: Oct 31, 2006 8:10 am PT
Review:  The 1996 Classic that Launched the Nintendo 64 and changed the way we played Platformers is Back 
 on the DS!.
  
  Gameplay: 9/10
  Almost every Thing you Remember is back, However Not everything is as it was. Some Stars have been 
 Remove and replaced with All new stars, also the total number had been raised form 120 to 150. 
 Now the best addition is now your are able to play as Not Just Mario, But Yoshi, Luigi and Wario, 
 each with there own different abilities. Now dont just think you can just breeze through with just 
 mario, some star Require to to be a certain character. You Can move by using ether the D-Pad or 
 the touch screen, whichever is easier for you.
  
  There are also Unlockable Mini-Games that Increase replay Value
  
  Sound: 10/10
  
  The 
 Sound is Great with each sound crisp and just like back on the N64. the new sounds fit in perfectly.
 
  
  Value: 10/10
  
  The price alone is worth the classic, But the New Additions are just icing on the Cake.
  
  
 Tilt: 10/10
  
  Overall: 9.6
  
  Buy or Pass: BUY!
  This is a MUST Own for DS owners, infact it should be illegal Not to own this, lol 
::::::

::::::
UserName: eggo21
Rating: 8.5
Date: Oct 30, 2006 3:15 pm PT
Review:  Super Mario 64 DS is a wonderful remake of a masterpiece in a portable form. At first I was disappointed 
 of playing this game wit tha D-pad instead of tha analog but there are different controller options 
 for your best needs. They added a ton of stuff like: more Stars, new bosses, power-ups, stage villains, 
 heros, Mini-games &amp; multiplayer.
  The graphics are updated to tha max for a portable inwhich is awesome. The sound is excellant. 
 I use to love when mario face pops out and you pick at it now is some type of drawing board. If 
 you love Mario 64 well you can take it on the go now with more Extras to fullfil. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hsimpson44
Rating: 9.4
Date: Oct 26, 2006 1:53 pm PT
Review:  This game is very fun! You play as Yoshi sent to collect power stars to beat Bowser and rescue 
 Princess Peach. On the way, you can unlock Mario, Wario, and Lugi. Threw the game, you can also 
 catch bunnies to unlock new mini games. They are differant mini games based on each character. 
 Altogether, there are one hundred and fifty power stars, but you must only collect eighty to fight 
 Bowser. All the levels and secrets are brought directaly from the Super Nintendo Ds and put into 
 the Nintendo DS to create a great game. This is deffiently one of, if not the, best Nintendo DS 
 game out there. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jojoman333
Rating: 9.2
Date: Oct 25, 2006 7:48 am PT
Review:  When I bought a Nintendo DS I wanted a game with it. I was sure that it was going to be Super Mario. 
 I enjoyed it on the Nintendo 64 and on the DS it was even cooler. You have a very large story mode 
 which you can play in about 15 hours. But the minigames are just fantastic, it shows us what the 
 possibilities are of the DS, the touchscreen of course. And the graphics are so shiny that you 
 get a big smile on your face. The multiplayer is just plain fun, not for hardcore multiplayer gamers. 
 Nintendo has done a good job and this is not a simple port, it's a whole new game on itself. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mrnothington
Rating: 8.4
Date: Oct 22, 2006 4:24 pm PT
Review:  Super mario 64 ds is just a little twist on the great game that was realised years ago. But this 
 time your not only going to play as mario but as yosh luigi and wario to. The story is still the 
 same Peach gets kidnapped and she needs you to save her. All the charcters have thier own speacal 
 powers of sorts wario can run under the water when he wairs the metal hat, luigi can run on top 
 of water for a short amount of time. The game has 150 stars witch is an improvment over the onld 
 100 stars but the game is still easy. Their are some leavels you will love some you will hate but 
 this game has something in store for everyone it seems. Getting the charcters themselvs is not a 
 challeng in any way, exept for luigi. I must have spent alot of time oh his level alone cause if 
 you skrew up you go to the biggining and jeez it took me forever it seems to get him. Played the 
 old game or not you will still love this remade versian of the game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: willowrosenburg
Rating: 9.3
Date: Oct 20, 2006 6:35 pm PT
Review:  This video game is s miraclus and wonderful. You get to play the cool charectors from most of the 
 mario games Mario, Lugi, Wario, and Yoshi. This story has to do with peach getting kidnapped by 
 the evil bowser. in the game you have to go through worlds to get bowser back. Each world has a 
 unike look and has lots of warps so you dont have to climb to the the top of mountains and places. 
 If you like games where the only thing you have to realy on is the clue of the title of the game 
 then you will do good. The game allows you to see the whole castle and feel like a winner. When 
 you see a toad ypu always will want to check in and see what is going on because it is so useful. 
 She allows you to save and someimes toad has a star for you. Just rember that thete are stars that 
 are hidden the castle so look every where. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: angus73
Rating: 9.6
Date: Oct 9, 2006 7:16 pm PT
Review:  first the graphics are the best i have seen on the DS. There are tons of mini games to unlock and 
 most are really fun. I like the new characters wario , yoshi, and luigi. You start as playing as 
 luigi then unlock mario. You have to be mario to fight bowser. and most of you would know the rest 
 of the story. This game is allways fun to play angain and again i think. i have had this game for 
 6-7 months and i still play it almost every day. the controlles are easy to catch on to. It is 
 just a great game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 4rc4ng3L
Rating: 7.8
Date: Oct 4, 2006 4:23 am PT
Review:  If you played Mario 64 in the N64 qall those years ago then you will either be pleased or disappionted 
 that the game remains very much the same.
  Foward it up to 2006 and the game looks very impressive for a handheld, and quite a bit better 
 than the N64 version porving the power of the DS.
  There are some additions to the game with the inclusion of the new playable characters including 
 Yoshie, Luigi, Wario and as always the red cap wearing plumber they call mario.
  The gameplay is identical to the origional version so it includes all of its plus pionts but also 
 the negative. The gameplay can be fun and exciting but you will be somewhat distracted by the bad 
 camera angles and the sometimes stubborn controls. This will rarely affect the game but it can 
 get frustrating form time to time. If however you are looking for a portable classic that will 
 keep you entertained for hours you simply cant go wrong with Super Mario 64 DS. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nathanbandy
Rating: 5
Date: May 26, 2007 7:07 pm PT
Review:  I enjoyed the original SM64, the DS version is much better in many ways. There are all new characters, 
 stages, unlockables, graphics, sounds, and much more! I will sort my review out in sections.
  
  Graphics: 8/10
  The colors are beautiful, extremelly colorful, just downright dazzling. But, 
 the characters are a little glitchy, Mario's hat is a little glitchy around the tip. The 3-D graphics 
 are stunning, the puffy, green trees, Chain Chomp, heck the castle looks great (I beat the whole 
 game, I've been on the castle) . I'm impressed, it's amazing what a little machine can do.
  
  Sound: 9/10
  Their all back, and the new ones are great too. They do get annoying though, 
 sometimes I switch the chraracters around so I don't have to listen to Yoshi's (Ahoo) one gajillion 
 times. The sound effects are perfect, they fit right along.
  
  Control: 9/10
  Much, much, much, and a few more muches, much easier then the original. Alot of you might not agree, 
 but really, moving him is so much easier, the buttons respond a little better as well. One thing 
 that confused me though, is that they allow you to move your character with the, stylus?!?!?! What's 
 up with that, It'll be harder to do attacks and stuff, I think there was no point in adding that 
 feature.
  
  Gameplay: 6/10
  This is were it goes a wee bit downhill. I will tell you, most of the time, the missions are pretty 
 easy, but when their hard, you could punch right through the Great Wall of China, you get that 
 mad. Also, quite a few of the old missions have changed, the volcano course, star five. You get 
 to the top, instead of 3 hovering blocks to the star, there's two blocks in the ds version. The 
 gameplay is also gerat becuase if a mission is good enough, you'll want to it again.
  
  Enertainment: 6/10 This is a great game, but once you finish it, there is no point whatsoever to 
 play it again. The minigames will keep you hooked, but not for long. Your gonna get bored of battling 
 the 3rd Bowser, and flying outside, and getting to the top of the pyrimid (desert world) .
  
  Unlockables: 6/10
  Well, there's plenty, but not really any of them are worth it. The minigames 
 are really fun, but there not addictive. They really could have put more thought into there minigames, 
 I mean, alot of them are great, but all your really doing most of the time is tapping. I do also 
 enjoy the drawing part, I'm addicted to this becuause I try to get Mario perfect when I'm tracing 
 him, but I never do.
  
  I'll just give you a quick pros and cons
  
  Pros:
  -New Characters, Stages, etc.
  -Better Control
  -Better Graphics
  -Minigames
  -Multiplayer
 
  
  Cons:
  -Loss of enertainment
  -Didn't change enough
  -graphics a little glictchy
  
  Overall, this is one great game, but when you beat it and get tired of the minigames, toss 
 the thing, it's worthless, you'll never play it again. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hack40
Rating: 8.7
Date: Oct 1, 2006 3:58 pm PT
Review:  The game is powerful, it owns you... Storyline- It's quite different than the original. Peach (princess 
 who gets kidnapped a bunch) gives Mario an invitation for cake. But she (Peach) ends up getting 
 kidnapped by Bowser, who also stole the Power Stars. Mario with his pals, Luigi (his brother) , 
 and Wario (evil version of Mario, Mario and Luigi's cousin) come out of pipes but they get kidnapped 
 and get trapped inside doors and you'll need keys to open it. Yoshi (good friend of Mario, who 
 is taking a nap on the top of castle (the place he was hidden in the original game) ... uh... goes 
 on the floor and is awoken by I think a Lakitu who tells him that Peach is kidnapped and Mario, 
 Luigi, and Wario are missing. It's up to Yoshi to find them. See the storyline is different. Graphics- 
 Close to Gamecube... Close to N64... but closer to Gamecube. Level Designs are good. Really good. 
 I'm really amazed with the graphics. They are really good.... Enemies look quite really good. Almost 
 every character looks almost gamecube. Two thumbs up. Yep. You have to admit, the graphics are 
 really good. Looks better than N64. I like the N64, but I'm talking about this game!! Gameplay- 
 The controls are good... but how you control characters with the D-Pad is no where as good as controlling 
 the characters with control stick on the N64 version. It pisses me off sometimes. But the controls 
 aren't bad... just not as good as the N64 version. The boss fights are fun... in fact... most parts 
 of the gameplay is really good. All of the characters are good. Shakes head. RIGHT ON!! Sound- 
 Voice overs, as usual in a Mario game, are good. Music is quite good. Sound rocks. Two Thumbs, 
 Two Thumbs up... sound effects are good. Really good... Two thumbs up.... again. Closing Comments- 
 I say that DS owners should buy the game. This was one of the reasons I wanted to get a DS (I have 
 a DS as you know) .... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: yoshi45
Rating: 8.1
Date: Sep 23, 2006 9:36 pm PT
Review:  Description:
  Super Mario 64 DS is a great remake of the N64 classic.
  
  The good:
  Made after an already good game. Has a nice selection of mini games that make fun use of the stylus. 
 It has 30 more stars to collect than the original. A few new levels. You get to play as Mario, 
 Luigi, Wario, and Yoshi. Slightly improved graphics.
  
  The bad:
  It is a remake so it doesn't feel too new. The multi player feels tacked on. Some what frustrating 
 to play as Yoshi. And I found that I use Luigi much more than any other character. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mitarri
Rating: 8.7
Date: Sep 23, 2006 7:57 am PT
Review:  It all starts off when I had extra money in my wallet, so I just went to go get a game, which ended 
 up as this.
  
  Gameplay: The gameplay is exactly what you would call great , since you use the D-pad to move, 
 or you can use your thumb or stylus on the touch screen, which tries its best to be a joy stick 
 because if you use your thumb, you move it around the screen just like the N64, but dont use that 
 control setting though. it sucks. So, if you played it on an emulator, you wont have a problem 
 pressing the D-pad, but if your used to an N64 joystick, then you might have a hard time adjusting. 
 Now, theres more characters, which are Luigi, Wario, and Yoshi. However, you start off as Yoshi 
 in the beginning which is pretty interesting, and then you save Mario. Then Mario saves Luigi, 
 and Luigi saves Wario, and Mario saves Peach. In the 64 version, I think theres 120 stars, but 
 now, theres 150, which can use up more time, yet these stars too easy to obtain. Now, theres minigames, 
 and you can get more minigames by catching rabbits.
  
  Graphics: Now the graphics, they really upgraded this one, they made Mario look less pixelatish, 
 and the Lakitu Bros. look a bit different but theres nothing wrong with it. You wouldnt be used 
 to the graphics much unless you've played it for a while. For example, with bowser http://nintenblog. free. fr/images/ds/comparatif_super_mario_64_DS_et_N64_bowser_20050225. jpg
 
  So by now you should see the big graphics update.
  
  Sound: Sound is this game is great. They stayed true to the same music, except that Princess Toadstool's 
 voice is WAY different than the original voice, and they barely sound similar. The other character's 
 voices are pretty smoth too, my personal favorite voice is from Wario, and for some reason I dont 
 know but still.
  
  Value: This game's value has a slight problem, as you can see, this game was released 2 years ago 
 for $30, now, its 2 years later, and its STILL $30. But still, $30 really, to be honest isnt even 
 that much for a DS game like this, but I just wish the price went down.
  
  And this is my review, hope you think I went really in depth in the game.
  
  Thank you for 
 reading 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lewisgannon
Rating: 4.5
Date: Sep 19, 2006 1:05 am PT
Review:  I never liked mario 64, so i hate mario 64 sds its even worse dont get me wrong i love the 2d games 
 and mario kart, but this is utter crap the gameplay is unoriginal the controls are dire the only 
 plus sides are its a mario game and the graphics are solid. but that doesnt make up for the awful 
 gameplay which is about as much fun as waitin for the crappy ps3 to come out in britain ( god damn 
 i hate you sony all these years as a loyal follower and you repay me with a late realease date 
 and a stupendously high price, im all about the 360 know sony, you did thid to yourself)
  DO not buy this game its really poor i could go on for hours bashin this game i wont all i will 
 say is buy mario kart or new mario bros they are a million times better no exaggaration. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: altenter
Rating: 7
Date: Sep 16, 2006 10:30 pm PT
Review:  super mario 64 just plainly the same as the orginal but more little things added and a charater 
 select and a weak multiplayer system setup. the one thing they could of added to make this game 
 better was to change the bowser boss areans or the way bowser attacks you. nintendo could you also 
 changed the look of the castle and the inside of it. nintendo could also setted up more stages 
 that leaded too a alternate ending of some sort.
  overall if you just like playing mario games just buy it. plus theres extras bunnies that give 
 you keys for mini games that are pretty fun to play with so if u dont like playing a game remade 
 just play the mini games there lots of fun. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DCFilms
Rating: 8
Date: Sep 5, 2006 6:33 pm PT
Review:  This is the first game I played on my DS and had a blast playing it. It stays true to the 64 version 
 graphics wise and as a twist by alowing more characters in the game. Now you can play as Mario, 
 Yoshi, Luigi and Wario. Each character has thier own abilities to take advantage of, and get to 
 certain places in a world you otherwise couldn't go.
  
  The music in this game brought back so many memories that I had long forgotten. Using the DS's 
 "surround" speakers, the quality is top notch.
  
  The gameplay in this game is very good, but it is ruined by using the D-Pad instead of a analog 
 stick. Although this different control is difficult at times, it doesnt render the game unplayable.
 
  
  Multiplayer is a big thing this day, but this game should have left it out entirely. It's not something 
 you would want to play with many people, single player games, should not be remade with multiplayer.
 
  
  Although this game has a few downsides, it is a total flashback to the hours spent on the N64 back 
 in the day. If you didn't already pick up a copy with your DS, its time to go out and buy a copy. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: YoungDre360
Rating: 9.2
Date: Sep 5, 2006 12:34 am PT
Review:  I cannot tell you how many hours of my youth I devoted to Super Mario 64. It was one of the first 
 games I had for the N64, and it set the standard for all platformers to follow. After my N64 was 
 out of comission, my memories started to fade. Luckily, ten years after the game's release, I hold 
 in my hand a solid remake that improves in many ways upon a classic.
  The first change you'll see is the nifty title screen that offers a variation of the face stretching 
 screen from SM64. It is a captivating game in it's own right that will have you toying with it 
 mindlessly more than you'd expect. Once you get into the actual adventure mode, you'll notice right 
 off the bat that this isn't your older, richer cousin's Super Mario 64, but his hipper younger 
 brother. You play as Yoshi until you unlock the other three characters. The level layouts, while 
 mostly as you remember them, have a few secrets thrown in. The object remains the same: collect 
 a bunch of stars.
  If you want a break from the story, you can also engage in some minigames which all have an addictive 
 quality to them. It's like you get Super Mario 64 and a Mario Party game for the price of one. 
 The controls are a bit strange at first, but it's not the game's fault that the DS doesn't have 
 an analog stick, but the D-Pad does do a better job than the PSP's nub would. The graphics are 
 improved over the N64. It's a great game to walk around playing, so that when people see it, it'll 
 have a "Wow" factor. The sound is pretty much as I remember. I'll catch myself either humming along 
 with the music, or a few bars ahead to test my memory. The audio does have a slightly "GBA" type 
 ofedge to it, but it's all of the instuments you remember, and in surround sounmd, which is something 
 I still can't get over on a handheld. The audio does sound a bit fuller on external speakers. If 
 you have an RCA to headphone jack and a decent home stereo, you can pretend you have a mini N64. 
 Or not.
  Above all, a must have for any DS owner or Mario fan, new or old. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: JMC47
Rating: 8.1
Date: Sep 4, 2006 12:59 am PT
Review:  This game is fun. This game was a game I played 10 years ago. Its still good, but I think the fact 
 that its nostalgic lets us look past its flaws.
  
  GAME PLAY
  
  Still better than Sunshine. I don't care if Sunshine is newer. The game isn't as good as I remember. 
 Its tough with the new control scheme also. Rather than analog controls, you hit a button to run 
 faster. It makes jumps a little harder, and certain missions more difficult, but this is the same 
 game basically
  
  There are some new missions and mini games. The mini games are a fun distraction, but nothing mind 
 boggling. This is one of the few games, where I got so ****** off it wasn't funny. I had 149 stars, 
 and couldn't find the last one, because the game had a bug and the one I missed was unretrievable. 
 I played through again to get it, and get the 150, but that was annoying.
  
  BTW, this is a platformer, you run and jump and stuff. I didn't elaborate because everyone has 
 played the original.
  
  GRAPHICS
  
  Better than the N64 model wise. Mario's face looks so much better it isn't funny. Just think of 
 hte N64 game with higher polygon models. The low textures are increasingly annoying in spots though. 
 Overall, great graphics.
  
  SOUND
  
  Same as the N64 game, except a bit more dithered and less impacting. The same awesome music is 
 in this game though, and you'll be humming the games all over again. The mini games sounds unfortunately, 
 don't fare as well, but since they are extra, I'm not letting it bring down the sound score, though 
 value may be penalized.
  
  VALUE
  
  The game has 30 new stars, but none are as inventive for the most part. Many are in smaller levels, 
 or added castle stars. There is even one that you can't get if you miss it once. But 30 stars did 
 give me something to shoot for. Mini games weren't that great, but they are extra. Some are addictive, 
 but most are just bland and boring. Mario talks too much in it.
  
  TILT
  
  The game has a weak story. If it wasn't for nostalgia, I would not have beaten the game 100%. The 
 game has a weak grab compared to when it was the first N64 game. I have to say, had it not been 
 for the memories, I wouldn't have played this game as much. Other than that, the story is basically 
 the same, except Mario, Luigi, and Wario get captured. Yoshi is the best anyway, so it doesn't 
 matter. But, the ending is exactly the same, so if you beat the old game it won't keep you guessing.
 
  
  OVERALL
  
  The game does hold its ground, but its not as intense, or as fresh as we remember it. Still, its 
 worth it just to have it in your pocket whenever you want. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Woody121
Rating: 8.1
Date: Sep 1, 2006 2:43 am PT
Review:  Super Mario 64 DS will keep you entertained for hours. You will have great fun playing it and thoroughly 
 enjoy going arround different zones collecting stars and defeating Bowser at the end of it. This 
 game offers a wonderful challange and will not let you down by being too easy. It's highly addictive 
 and you will just never give up on trying to get that star! Even if you have to go over and over 
 again, you don't get adgitated, you just become more determined! It's great fun and I am certain 
 you will thoroughly enjoy playing it. I would highly recomend purchasing this game as I am sure 
 you will not be let down! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nickscho
Rating: 7.2
Date: Aug 23, 2006 2:40 pm PT
Review:  It's not big news how revolutionary this game was for the N64, how ahead of it's time it was. The 
 game was practically perfect in everyway for it's time, and it still remains a classic, and one 
 of the greatest games of all time.
  
  I was SO excited when I heard this was coming for the DS as a launch title. When I played it however 
 the magic was gone. Was it because the game was too old, did I just get sick of it. Nope, because 
 when I played the N64 version the next day, I was still blown away. So what's the problem? It's 
 the linear controls of the DS. This game was the first 3-D platformer of its time, so how does 
 it make the least bit of sense to put it on a system with linear controls! The game was frustrating, 
 almost unplayable. It's sad, because the N64 version remains one of the greatest games of all time. 
 The new mini-games are nice, but the real meat is the actual game itself, and it has been greatly 
 hurt by the controls of the DS.
  
  The DS is superb. Mario 64 is superb. So are chocolate and ketchup. I'm not about to eat a chocolate 
 and ketchup sandwhich though. My advice, if you really need to play, wait for it to be released 
 as a downloadable game on the Wii, and play it then. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rsnow7
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 21, 2008 10:48 am PT
Review:  I wondered if this was any different from the other mario games, and it is! This mode of gameplay 
 is greatly unique with its 3-D visuals. The gameplay actually surprised me! I like the fact that 
 more power stars have been added to increase its "missions", thus increasing its time. Plus, it's 
 a classic! I like the multiplayer too, because you can be four characters to battle it out in four 
 places found in solo mode. And the controls are still pretty decent. This game has everything, 
 like all similar games should. Anybody who sees this, consider the information in this review. 
 The minigames are fun, because all of them involve the touch screen in many different ways, whether 
 you are knocking shells together or directing Mario's jump to several unsuspecting Shy Guys! This 
 is a classic and a fun game for people of all ages. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Jervous
Rating: 8.5
Date: Aug 20, 2006 8:59 am PT
Review:  Ok, this is a very good game! It has most of the stuff of the old one on the DS! It has a great 
 multiplayer, (No Wifi though) great gameplay and it's very fun!
  In the old one, you start off as Mario. But in this on, you are Yoshi! (YAYAYAY)
  The castle 
 is almost the same as in the old one, but 2 more rooms.
  (One room became the character select room)
  In this game, you play as Yoshi, Mario, Luigi and 
 Wario. (In order)
  The stars get a boost up to 150, and each character, (except Yoshi) has their own boss!
  Gameplay 
 is easy to remember and use, but using the stylus is hard for me. To change into characters IN 
 level, you must find their cap and put it on.
  BAM! You're Luigi! Usually hats don't appear until you're at their level. (or near it in some cases)
 
  You can also unlock minigames! The minigames are fun and addictive.
  But overall, this is a fun game!
  I just didn't like one part.
  But i'm not going to spoil 
 it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: PhoenixGod17
Rating: 10
Date: Aug 19, 2006 8:33 pm PT
Review:  Most of the time when I hear there is a new remake of a great classic. I think great now their 
 going to make another game bad, and make people realize that the original was better. This game 
 was different it gave me hope that there are people who know how to build on the original. By adding 
 3 new guys you allow for more game play time, and for a little change or expasion in the story 
 line. Also in the case of many DS games can also create fun multiplayer, and not mention great 
 min-games to play and get. This can make it able to create a little more stratgey in the game. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nick15uk
Rating: 9.3
Date: Aug 19, 2006 2:22 am PT
Review:  As a huge fan of the original Super Mario 64 on the Nintendo 64, I was rather excited that Nintendo 
 had decided to release it on their new handheld console, the Nintendo DS. This version encompasses 
 all that was good about the original and builds upon it, adding a host of new mini-games and 30 
 extra stars to collect in the main adventure (originally there was only 120 stars, now theres 
 150 to collect) . 
  
  I have heard people complaining about the control method for Super Mario 64 DS and in some ways 
 I agree. The Nintendo 64s analog stick was created for controlling Mario and thats why it worked 
 so well, however the DS touch screen and wrist strap also work great but just not quite as accurate 
 as the N64. You can also use the D-pad but it doesnt give the same amount of accuracy as the touch 
 screen. 
  
  Collecting all the stars again was just as magical an experience as it was back in 1996 and the 
 game still holds up well against modern platformers, even after nearly 10 years. Im a fan of retro 
 games but this doesnt feel retro at all, not yet anyway. In many ways this is a perfect launch 
 title and probably why the Nintendo 64 launched pretty successfully. Literally every Nintendo 64 
 owner owned this game so its hardly surprising that Nintendo decided to launch it with their new 
 handheld. Why mess with perfection?
  
  The added mini-games are a joy to play and really make use of the Nintendo DSs innovative features. 
 This game will challenge kids and older gamers alike. Some of the puzzles are perplexing and the 
 boss characters are awe-inspiring. Watching Bowser appear on screen for the first time, fully buffed 
 up into a glorious 3D model is breath-taking and (for me) one of the games best moments.
  
  The Nintendo DS hardware handles this game brilliantly too, there is not a hint of slowdown or 
 pop-up. The textures arent as smooth as the Nintendo 64s but they still look gorgeous. This remains 
 one of my favourite platformers ever conceived. Awesome. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lebanese_boy
Rating: 8.6
Date: Aug 17, 2006 7:22 pm PT
Review:  Remember the days of the Nintendo 64 ? Ah that console held some of the greatest classics ever, 
 including a game called Super Mario 64. Super Mario 64 was the first Super Mario game in 3D. When 
 that game was released, it became an instant hit. Super Mario 64 DS is a remake of the original 
 game with 3 other playable characters ( Luigi, Wario and Yoshi ) , more stars to find and some great 
 unlockable mini-games.
  
  -Gameplay-
  
  The Gameplay in that game is actually pretty well done. The controls are easy and every characters 
 has it's own set of moves. Mario is well balanced like always, Luigi is faster, Yoshi jumps higher 
 and Wario is slow but is also the strongest. I'd say that the gameplay is fine, no problems here, 
 except that the multiplayer mode is pretty dull, there is absolutely no fun on the multiplayer 
 of that game.
  
  -Graphics-
  
  The Graphics in that game have been repolished since the N64 version. The characters look a lot 
 better, especially Bowser. I didn't encounter any serious glitches since this is a remake they 
 must have fixed most of them. There is also no framerate problem either.
  
  -Sound-
  
  Music in that game hasn't change, they should have putted something new in there but other then 
 that, sound quality is excellent.
  
  -Value-
  
  The game is pretty fun and it's lenghty. Basically, you won't finish the game in only a day, but 
 it might take a week or more to collect all the stars and unlock all the mini-games. These mini-games 
 are pretty fun and are worth all the work to get them unlocked. The replay value isn't that good, 
 once you've finished the game, you won't really want to play it again.
  
  In overall, Super Mario 64 DS is a great game to play, but not with your friends. The graphics 
 are well polished and the sound quality is excellent. No new music but other new features in that 
 game like new characters and mini-games. This game is definitely worth to be bought and I'll recommend 
 it to any Mario fan, Platformer Games fan or any old-school gamers. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gjb-sensei
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 13, 2006 10:57 pm PT
Review:  One of the greatest games to ever be released for Nintendo's 64-bit powerhouse, the Nintendo 64, 
 gets a dual screen makeover with Super Mario 64 DS for the Nintendo DS. Featuring improved graphics 
 over its N64 sister, several new characters to play as, 30 additional stars to find and collect, 
 and newly-added mini-games that use some of the DS' unique features quite nicely, Super Mario 64 
 DS proves to be a very competent update to the legendary Nintendo 64 launch title.
  
  If you're not familiar with the original N64 version, here's a quick rundown of the necessary-to-know 
 facts. In addition to being a visually superb game at the launch of the Nintendo 64 -- one that demonstrated 
 more than a mere glimpse of what was possible with the at-the-time unsurpassed hardware -- Super 
 Mario 64 was also a tremendously excellent game in terms of controls. Taking full advantage of 
 the Nintendo 64's analog stick, which was the first time a stick of its nature was a mandatory 
 part of the controller packed in with a video game console, the title was absolutely brilliant 
 gameplay-wise as the controls never seemed bothersome at all as they quickly became second nature 
 for almost instantaneously addicted fanatics. The creator, legendary "magician" Shigeru Miyamoto, 
 showed the world just how good his games could get, as well as the undeniable potential the analog 
 stick had hidden, waiting to be unlocked by those capable enough to unlock it. As well as that, 
 it also displayed viewers and players alike that Mario could definitely make a successful (and 
 nearly seamless) transition from the world of 2D sprites to 3D polygons.
  
  Unfortunately, though, since the Nintendo DS does not have an analog stick (or even an "analog 
 nub", like the one featured on the competing Sony PSP) , the controls take a bit of a hit in the 
 translation from console to handheld entry. The clear omission of such a stick on the dual-screened 
 handheld more than implies that the nature of moving Mario and his pals around the title's vast 
 amount of areas won't be quite as enjoyable. Now, with that said, I still happened to get an admittedly 
 remarkable sum of fun simply using the d-pad to move around, which is actually not as bad as you 
 might imagine it to be, considering this is a 3D Mario, not a 2D side-scroller. If you're not fond 
 of using a d-pad to move around in a three-dimensional world, then you can use a staple of the 
 DS, the stylus, in conjunction with the face buttons to move around and pull off abilities. Finally, 
 if both the d-pad and stylus just don't cut it for you, you also have the option of using the basically 
 forgotten about thumb strap, if that's your style. All in all, while the absence of the much-respected 
 analog stick is missed at times, it still won't prevent you from enjoying Super Mario 64 DS.
  
  The basic theme of the original version of the game is still fully intact, as you'll have to 
 rescue Princess Peach from the clutches of the evil and  Bowser. 
 It's there where the similarities end, at least in terms of story and introduction. You see, instead 
 of beginning the game as Mario, you'll rather be fitted in as Yoshi. As Yoshi, you'll have to help 
 Mario out of his holding by trying to locate a key that will free him. That's also how you'll free 
 the game's other playable captives, Luigi and Wario.
  
  Mario and his controllable pals each have their own unique set of skills that you'll be able to 
 use at times to advance throughout the many challenges you'll encounter. There are these red boxes 
 which specifically house these flowers that enable the character you're currently engaged as to 
 do or become one of a number of things. For instance, if you're Mario and you use one of these 
 flowers you'll grow to around three times your normal size and also simultaneously gain the ability 
 to float and move around in mid-air temporarily. Luigi, meanwhile, will become invisible should 
 he utilize one of these aforementioned flowers. Moving on, Wario's body will become a frame of 
 steel which will allow him to walk underwater, since he's so heavy (not that he isn't heavy to 
 begin with) . Lastly, Yoshi will be granted the ability of spitting fire when he ingests a flower.
 
  
  Super Mario 64 DS features a greatly diverse amount of levels to traverse and explore. You'll find 
 yourself venturing through a battlefield, swimming with the fishes underwater, seeking supernatural 
 spirits in a ghost house, avoiding being burned by volcanoes, and even avoiding the hands of time, 
 among many others. Simply put, if a highly solid amount of explorable areas if what you're looking, 
 then you've come to the right place.
  
  It wouldn't be a Mario game without some bright and colorful worlds, and Super Mario 64 DS doesn't 
 disappoint in that regard either. The game has a vibrant, almost radiant charm to it that is full 
 of life. Not only does the game sport better-looking worlds, the characters themselves -- both good 
 and bad -- also look noticeably improved. It does help that there's an eight-year gap between the 
 release of the Nintendo 64 installment and the release Nintendo DS version, allowing Nintendo's 
 developers to fine-tune their graphical skills. And since this is basically a sign of what's to 
 come regarding the future of graphically-intense games on the DS, Super Mario 64 DS is a very nice 
 start.
  
  It also wouldn't be a Mario game without some truly exceptional music, and the game also manages 
 to definitely impress in that particular category. From the laidback music that plays while you 
 swim around in Jolly Roger Bay, to the upbeat music that's on as you plot your plan of action in 
 Bob-Omb Battlefield, to the ominous tune that plays while you battle Bowser, you can't knock the 
 game's composer Koji Kondo in any possible way when it comes to the soundtrack he's expertly crafted.
 
  
  The almost never ending list of greatness attributed to this title continues as there's a plethora 
 of things to do; specifically, in the form of unlocking stars. With a hundred-fifty in total, all 
 spread across fifteen separate areas -- not including the stars that are unlocked in other manners -- you'll 
 undoubtedly be spending a whole lot of time making your way through Super Mario 64 DS numerous 
 challenges, trying to nail down every last star.
  
  Even if you've managed to gain every single star, though, there's still the little matter of the 
 "Rec Room". Basically, this mode is limited exclusively to mini-games that are unlockable through 
 the capturing of various rabbits located throughout the title. Examples of mini-games you can unlock 
 and play include "Wanted!", which sees you looking for the face of a particular individual in a 
 crowd that can expand from storing only a handful of faces to one that has an overwhelming amount, 
 "Mario's Slides", which has you guiding Mario down slides toward a capturable star with the stylus, 
 drawing lines on the touch screen to move him closer to the destination, and "Memory Match", which 
 simply has you memorizing where certain cards are and picking the correct set of two consecutively. 
 Clearly, Nintendo has packed Super Mario 64 DS, their flagship title for the Nintendo DS, with 
 plenty of stuff to keep you occupied.
  
  Overall, Super Mario 64 DS is an absolutely great and just plain fun title for the DS, just like 
 it was so many years ago on the Nintendo 64. It's a very solid port of the N64 legend, with some 
 improvements (more playable characters, better graphics and a nice batch of unique mini-games) 
 and some downgrades (the lack of an analog stick hurts the controls a bit) . If you've ever had 
 an itch to play some portable Super Mario 64, consider that itch scratched. Super Mario 64 DS has 
 arrived, it's portable, and it's worth it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kingamez
Rating: 9.3
Date: Aug 11, 2006 8:57 am PT
Review:  First off, how does GS only rate this a 8.4?!? 
  
  This game is a great update of an already amazing game. You start out as Yoshi this time on your 
 quest to find keys to unlock doors to save your friends, Mario, Luigi, and Wario. You can play 
 as either one of these characters and they all have special abilities that you need to collect 
 all the stars. Oh yeah, did I mention now you have 150 stars to find? Thats 30 more than the original 
 N64 game!
  
  The graphics in this game are great, even for a DS game. I gave them a 9 because their not perfect, 
 it's not eye popping beauty here but what do you expect for a portable game?
  
  If you haven't already noticed, the gameplay is no doubt a 10 for me. With four different characters, 
 150 stars, tons of different worlds, and Mini Games to play the gameplay is outstanding. 
  
  A nice addition to this game are mini games and the multiplayer. No this game doesn't have 
 wi-fi but you can still hook up in wireless pllay in a fun game as you race for the stars. Mini 
 games are new, You use your stylus in touch-sensitive minigames (can't tell you what they are, 
 sorry you'll have to find out for yourself... somehow I lost this game :cry: and I'm writing this 
 review off the top of my head!) . 
  
  Overall this is a great, fun DS game worth everybody's time- Nintendo Fan or not.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: gamefreakwill
Rating: 9.4
Date: Aug 10, 2006 7:48 pm PT
Review:  What better way than to give the Nintendo DS launch a great game like this? This is an amazing 
 game, great music, graphics, fun levels, and other terrific things.
  
  First of all, the story is a bit different from the original. You don't immediately start out as 
 mario. Instead, Mario, Luigi, and Wario go o the castle together but get captured. Yoshi, who is 
 asleep on the roof, goes to look for them.
  
  You eventually find Mario and can play as him and any other characters you free in the game. Each 
 have a special ability, like Mario's wall-jumping. You can see that the characters in the game 
 look a lot better than the original Super Mario 64.
  
  Which comes to my point with the graphics. The environments don't totally look a lot better than 
 the original, but are a little better looking. Caracters like Bowser have been touched up a bit 
 and look very well done for a handheld.
  
  The classic music in Mario is back in this update, and it sounds great. Its kind-of short and repetative, 
 but its still great to listen to. The sound effects are pretty good too.
  
  If you have the original Super Mario 64 for the N64, you don't need to buy this game. But if you 
 don't, then you should definately check this game out. Its a fun 3D Platformer and is a good, long 
 lasting experience.
  
  With all that in mind, I give it a 9.5 out of 10. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Jabbawocky04
Rating: 8.6
Date: Aug 10, 2006 5:35 am PT
Review:  I never properly owned the original Super Mario 64 but I have played it and I can tell that the 
 DS version almost has it beaten hands down.... almost. Where as the original gave a deep challenge 
 to the Mario fans the DS version seems more shallow as there is no difficult star to collect anymore. 
 For example if a star in the original required you to use Mario to do a series of hard jumps which 
 made the star so satisfactory to get, the original can be done by using Luigi's slow decent from 
 a whirlwind backflip and done in one simple move and that sums up how easy the DS version is really. 
 The game can be played through the D-Pad or the touch screen either is very easy to use if you 
 feel comfortable with it and it very rarely unresponsive. The graphics are actually an improvement 
 on the original and are crisp and bright it all looks very good an the DS' screen. The sound is 
 as alway a classic Mario arrangements of bouncy happy tunes with the Italian Stallions little catchphrases 
 (of course everyone else says stuff on it too) . The value of this game is little as it is easy 
 to complete and although there is a wide range of mini-games to unlock it still seems too short 
 (if you are really trying to stretch the game out you can see if you can get all the stars as all 
 the different characters) . In all this is a good remake of a classic and should be considered either 
 way. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Dead_Rises
Rating: 10
Date: Aug 9, 2006 1:03 pm PT
Review:  Super Mario 64 DS is one of the best freakin games I have ever played. Right as we speak I am trying 
 to get the last 12 stars. Dang freakin' 100 coins. Anyway, I give it an overall ten, for amazing graphics, awesome 
 gameplay, and excellent characters. Provides a hard challenge, thats why I give it a ten. It will make 
 you mad when you miss the dang coin for the tenth time. The most awesome attribute is the new characters 
 and there abilitys. I know Mario already had these abilitys but these characters are more fit to 
 these powers. The characters Personalitys  
 Wario: Greedy=Metal (Like some money.) . Thats how there powers where casted. This is the most awesome 
 game ever. The best classic turned into the best new game. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Jon_Wolfy
Rating: 8.4
Date: Aug 9, 2006 12:46 am PT
Review:  Super Mario 64 DS is a fun game for all it is worth. As the price has been going down the game 
 is still a very fun game and has plenty of changes to it to keep the old veterans guessing. I myself 
 am on of those veterans ad I felt this game was almost brand new from when I first began playing. 
 The mini games didn't excite me much when I realized their are only a few that are different from 
 the New Super Mario Bros. and that more than 80% or so of the mini games you have to unlock via 
 the main adventure. Now that might seem interesting but I feel it is a bit pointless.
  
  From the very beginning if you are new or old you will feel this game is interesting. The new people 
 will enjoy such a fresh game and veterans will like the new content from the beginning expecting 
 the entire game to be change in subtle yet large ways that wow them from the begining yet after 
 about an hour into it you will realize the flashy new stuff is more like a handicap. Making the 
 game more pointlessly complicated. The original 64 version was very amazing in it's own way yet 
 in the remake made me feel like a lot of the extra content and changes to the game were more like 
 filler than anythign else. You could even get away with never unlocking another character and staying 
 with yoshi the entire way through yet the option of even having other characters some times feels 
 needless when they just decided to split mario's power block powers among the 4 heroes. Now wario 
 has the metal power, luigi has invisability and mario has the wings. Randomly through out levels 
 you will even see black blocks that only wario can destroy and like i previously stated you will 
 run back and forth changing characters while all the while feeling that it could have just been 
 left out. Over all I think they could have just left out a lot of the newer stuff since IMO I feel 
 it just slows you down for the most part. Ofcoarse as everyone says the controls are sketchy and 
 don't feel very sharp. You won't notice it until you get far in the game and you have to navigate 
 tight and fast. I always use the D pad and i never really had a problem until about half way into 
 the game where I would try to do a complete turn the opposite way and instead I would do a circle 
 run where I would end up falling off a platform or something.
  
  From the old super mario I was a big fan of the music for this game so I feel they did a great 
 job with the sound as always.
  
  So in closing, Super Mario 64 is a long game that keep you entertained for hours but for the most 
 part an on and off type game. Gamplay is fun and multiplayer and mini games are entertaining for 
 when your bored. A good game for a fan who needs a 64 dose on the go. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: coylenintendo
Rating: 9.1
Date: Aug 7, 2006 1:48 pm PT
Review:  While it is just like Super Mario 64, Super Mario 64 DS is good especially if you never played 
 SM64. Peach has been kidnapped by Bowser and you can use 4 different characters to save her instead 
 of just using Mario. You start off with Yoshi and later get to use Mario, Luigi, and Wario. Each 
 one has a special Power. Some places in Peachs castle need a certain amount of stars to get into 
 them. So you have to get the stars in the castle and beat the levels in the paintings. The controls 
 are A to use your characters attack, B to jump, Y to dash, and X to change the camera. Press R 
 in the air to do a ground pound. In the levels you have to do certain things to get the stars. 
 Such as defeating an enemy, collecing red coins, helping someone, getting somewhere, solving puzzles, 
 etc. You will also be able to open up new areas in the castle by getting enough stars. You can 
 aslo play minigames. You unlock them by catching rabbits and getting the key they have. You play 
 them in a room in the castle or play them in the REC room that is on the start screen. Each minigame 
 has a record. This game is fun and a good update ot Super Mario 64. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: djamoure1000
Rating: 8.2
Date: Aug 5, 2006 9:04 pm PT
Review:  this game just didnt give me the same feeling as the version on the nintendo 64... the first one 
 seemed like it was someones baby, as if you knew a lot of people were very passionate in making 
 the game, this one just feels hollow. 
  
  one thing i really like about this game is the big collection of minigames that can be pretty addicting. 
 but whatdafxup with the mini "game" of yoshi pulling pedals off a flower ???
  
  
  oh and also I thought the sound was really very solid.
  
  while on the topic of nintendo 64 
 remakes... i would love to see a quest 64 remake, such and underrated unique game!!!
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: rothey3
Rating: 8.8
Date: Aug 4, 2006 8:21 am PT
Review:  First and foremost, I'd like to caution the readers of this review that I never played the original 
 Super Mario for N64. Back in those days I was a PlayStation kid, and my parents only allowed one 
 console in the house at a time. Accordingly, please consider while reading that I am not judging 
 the game on how well Nintendo updated and improved the game from the 64 era, I am simply taking 
 the game on for the first time. That said, Super Mario 64 DS is one of the best overall handheld 
 platformers I have ever played.
  
  Like the tagline says, Mario and Nintendo are, in my opinion, still setting the bar quite high 
 for platform gameplay even after dozens of Mario-based games have come out over the past few decades. 
 SM64DS offers four characters, each distinct enough yet not useless or inaccessible. Mastery of 
 the nuances between Mario, Luigi, Wario, Yoshi, and their special skills is required to rescue 
 Princess Peach and especially if youre daring enough to attempt getting all 150 Stars (up from 
 120 on the N64 version) . Unfortunately, the Mario series has never been renowned for its engaging 
 and complex storylines. SM64DS sticks with the same thin storyline of the originalPrincess Peach 
 wants to bake a cake, Mario has no toilets to fixand except for a few quick dialogue exchanges 
 with the bosses or Toad, the game never really attempts to create a solid backbone of a story. 
 
  
  The only issue that deters from the gameplay is the occasionally awkward camera. The left shoulder 
 button centers that camera behind the character, but in certain circumstances and levels it will 
 drift into an awkward corner or angle that will cause its share of unintentional life loss. The 
 problem is not frequent enough to really cut into the experience, but it is still one of the few 
 blemishes on this update of arguably the best platform game ever.
  
  The graphics in SM64DS are solid and well-updated. Because I do not have a great deal of experience 
 with the DS and its capabilities, I cannot really compare it to the DSs full potential, for a 
 handheld that still uses cartridges, the DS is definitely surpassing my initial expectations. Occasionally 
 the camera will get stuck behind a wall, revealing the nothingness inside or behind a piece of 
 the level, but that partially relates back to the aforementioned camera problems.
  
  I hate to directly compare the two handhelds (which means I am about to) because they are obviously 
 striving for different philosophies and demographics, but sound is one area in which I do not foresee 
 the DS ever matching or surpassing PSP. The same cutesy Mario music is present that weve come 
 to expect, but the tinny tunes and sound effects can easily become repetitive and eventually annoying. 
 
  
  With the extra 30 Stars added and the numerous minigames, there is a definitely lasting appeal 
 here. In an attempt to unlock all the addictive minigames, spend a few hours perusing them, earn 
 all the Stars, and play through the normal single player mode, a player could easily log 30 or 
 40 hours. In the handheld realm, I am rarely ever one to delve into the multiplayer aspect, so 
 I cannot speak for it in regards to SM64DS.
  
  In the case of Super Mario 64 DS, any mild fan of platform gaming should definitely look into playing. 
 Anyone from the 64 days might want to check with the GameSpot review to see how this entry in the 
 Super Mario series has stood the test of time.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: SoraTheExtreme
Rating: 3.2
Date: Aug 3, 2006 5:00 am PT
Review:  Nintendo's mascotcharacter has never really appealed to me, but his step into three dimensions 
 actually made me cry a little... how can a game be sooo boring?
  
  The story is just, bad... not funny bad but just bad... You have no motivation to clear the game 
 what-so-ever, I mean, a cake? 
  
  Graphics are good though, clear wellanimated and with lots of details. But I've never been much 
 for the characterdesign here. 
  Sound is where the game shines somewhat, Koji Kondo's masterpieces are nicely remixed and all soundeffects 
 is not fatal for the ears either... classic Mariostyle...
  
  Controls are the worst, using the D-pad makes Mario take turns like a brick and the touchscreenanaloge 
 is reason one for the DS Lite (tumbkiller)
  
  All the mini-games that you collect through the adventure is all good and in the end the only reason 
 to pick the game from the shelf anyway...
  Nintendo's frontcharacter dissapoints me again... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: linkdude543
Rating: 7
Date: Aug 1, 2006 8:34 pm PT
Review:  I bought this game and thought it was pretty good. The graphics are down right awesome. I'm not 
 usually into the action platformer sort of games but this was pretty good. The most redeeming quality 
 was the mini game they are the best aspect of the game. It was ok and should keep you busy for 
 quite a while if your a hardcore platformer and you played the original this game is definitly 
 for you. This is not a game you would want to buy new if you can get it cheep you feel a whole 
 lot better. One thing I didn't like about it is the fact that it is so dang long. I prefer short 
 game and to most people that would seem awkward. Anyway if it was only like 20$ when I bought it 
 I'd give it a 9.0 but its not. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: zappa02
Rating: 9.7
Date: Jul 31, 2006 6:13 pm PT
Review:  This game was just amzaing!! With you get a Ds but this first. Befopre buying any other game for 
 the ds..... The gameplay was for easy... the Graphics were so cool ion this hand hled.... The sound 
 was just amzaing.... the value was great... The difficulty was just right, the learning curve is 
 about 0 to 30 minutes..
  And its best in its series...... All things considered, Super Mario 64 DS is a great update of a 
 classic game. While some portions of the game have aged better than others, and while the control 
 could've been a little tighter, the game is done right enough to make it a faithful update for 
 fans of the original; new players will certainly find a lot to like here, as well. This is clearly 
 and deservedly the flagship game for the Nintendo DS launch.....
  
  You Must by this game for your DS......
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: f5lesnar2000
Rating: 8.6
Date: Jul 30, 2006 6:48 pm PT
Review:  The original Super Mario 64 was a landmark in the 3D gaming and Mario franchise. Its no suprise 
 that it would eventually be remade onto the DS. The game starts out a little differently than the 
 original, first off Luigi and Wario have been thrown into the mix, as they are following Mario 
 into the castle for some cake promised by Princess Peach. After a while Yoshi wakes up and is told 
 the trio hasn't come back yet, you control the little green dinosaur for a little while before 
 finding a way to unlock Mario. Going through the game you should eventually find a way to unlock 
 Luigi and Wario, they aren't essential the game's ending but it does help when you want to get 
 all the stars. The game behaves exactly the same as its N64 counterpart, although without the use 
 of a joystick can be annoying as well as having to hold down a button to run. Graphics are impressive 
 and the sound is decent too, although many of the game's sounds come directly from the N64 version. 
 Finally the camera does need a little work sometimes, needing to touch the lower screen to rotate 
 the camera is rather tedious compared to using the shoulder buttons on the N64, however the controller 
 had more buttons than the DS and the L and R buttons are used for other commands. All in all Super 
 Mario 64 DS is a wonderful update despite its few shortcomings. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: T13SAMBRLNM
Rating: 8.3
Date: Jul 29, 2006 7:14 pm PT
Review:  Super Mario 64 DS is a remake of the original Super Mario 64 on the DS, hence the name. The gam's 
 opening is has a new twist in it. While Peach invites Mario, he arrives with Luigi and Wario and 
 then they all get kidnapped. It is then up to Yoshi, who was sleeping on top of the castle at the 
 time, goes out and find the rest of the gang. You will eventually unlock Mario, Luigi and Wario 
 and play as them. Mario can wall jump, Luigi and Yoshi can jump higher and Wario has the strength 
 to break black blocks. The game also has a "flower power-up" for each character. Mario can inflate 
 into a balloon, Luigi can turn invisible, Yoshi can breathe fire and Wario can turn metal. The 
 gameplay has been largely untouched and the stars themselves haven't really changed. The game also 
 has a variety of mini-games for use of the touch screen. These are fun and more can be unlocked 
 by catching rabbits around the castle. 
  
  The game's graphics are great for what the DS can do. Everything looks much better than it's Nintendo 
 64 counterpart. The characters have the best improvements. The sound is also great. Most of it 
 is new because of the new characters and it's good.
  
  If you were a fan of Super Mario 64, you play this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hianhwee
Rating: 8.9
Date: Jul 26, 2006 10:07 am PT
Review:  This red hat iconic little human makes you want to come back for more despite it is a 20 year old 
 game. i do not have the luxury of playing Mario game titles during my younger days. I regreted 
 not started playing Nintendo games much eariler. However it is better than never! 
  
  This game might seem to be a kid's favourite but it is no easy feat to go thru all the obstacles 
 to get 150 stars. for an adult, it is equally a daunting feat too. i started with slight difficulties 
 in handling the ground pound, jumping button while using Yoshi, Mario's pet. In about 45 minutes 
 of playing, i finally get the hang of it! Obviously I have to ask my friend and his child what 
 to press and observe them play. The joys from their faces after each successful capture of the 
 star make one want to try. I am into my 14 stars and i must say that I am proud that I got Mario 
 now to conquer the worlds and gather more stars.
  
  A good game for kids and family. If you want your child to be close to you, buy him this game and 
 I bet in no time both of you will collaborate to conquer worlds and gather stars. Happy bonding, 
 great game!
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: AfriGamer
Rating: 8.7
Date: Jul 24, 2006 2:45 am PT
Review:  Super Mario 64 redefined videogames, superb platforming, superb graphics, brilliant sound, great controls, etc, etc. In 
 short: It is a classical game.
  In comes Nintendo's first 3d handheld (full 3d) , and here comes Mario again.
  The game is a remake 
 of the N64 version, and does very much to impress;
  
  Graphicwise-The graphics have been updated, and needless to say, they still look brilliant. Definately 
 a good sight for the eyes.
  
  Sound-The Mario series has always been known for it's brilliant sound, the sound on this is far 
 from average, good stuff by Nintendo.
  
  Now, the major flaw with Super Mario 64 Ds is obviously: The controls. Use of analog on the N64 is 
 what made Mario 64 into a classic platforming game. The Ds handles it well, but it fails to give 
 that same feeling associated with analog platforming. Get's the job done, but not perfectly so.
 
  
  All in all, this game is as brilliant as it's N64 'counterpart', the bonus games are addictive, the 
 gameplay is smooth, and apart from the average controls, this game would've been a perfect transition 
 from N64 to Ds. Solid.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Willy105
Rating: 8
Date: Jul 23, 2006 4:06 pm PT
Review:  You are not a gamer until you have played the original Super Mario 64 for Nintendo 64. It was quite 
 frankly the best game ever. From it's amazing graphics, mind-boggiling gameplay, fantastic soundtrack, 
 and it's fantastic appeal, Mario 64 is a masterpiece still waiting to be topped, even 8 years later. 
 And now it's time for it to jump into the next fronteir.... Nintendo DS. Of course, Nintendo DS 
 is Nintendo brand new hand-held system, featuring the weirdest controls yet and of course, 3D graphics. 
 But is about to go horribly wrong. Super Mario 64 DS feels more of a downgrade, rather than an 
 upgrade.
  
  Now to the game. The game has been modified a bit to use the DS's capabilities to the max. It has 
 multiplayer (you only need one card, yay!) , minigames so you can have fun with the new touch-screen, 
 and the biggest one, 30 brand-new stars to look and hunt for. Not only that, you can play as Yoshi, 
 Luigi, and Wario. Not just Mario. These updates bring a lot of replay to it, but it takes so much 
 away from the original, it almost doesn't cout as a nostalgic ride.
  
  Now the bad thing, it's the graphics. Nintendo claimed that the DS is more powerfull than the N64. 
 It doesn't look like that here. The graphics have been heavily downgraded from it's original state. 
 Mario has a lot less polygons than in the N64 version (you can't even seen Mario's "Piece" sign 
 when he gets his star anymore) , the textures are much smaller and have a lot less detail than 
 in the N64, and what's worse, the DS's lack of a texture filter makes the textures look heavily 
 jagged and makes it look as bad as a PS1 game! Unbeliavle. It's a downgrade.
  
  And the sound is also very modified. Remeber the sound that the camera makes when you turn the 
 camera, how that made you go on a nostalgic ride thru time? Gone. Instead, it's replaced by a really 
 ugly sound, that makes you want to resist turning the camera just so you don't hear it. And the 
 Mario vocals have been compressed badly, lowering the quality badly. Another downgrade.
  
  But enough about presentation, let's see the control. Now the first thing you have to do is switch 
 the controls from standard to Touch. You cannot play this game with the D-pad. It was not meant 
 to be. It makes the game unnecessarily hard. (especially the Bowser battles) . Now the one I find 
 best is the one that uses the stylus. It takes time to get used to, but it works great.
  
  The 150 stars will make you go back to play this game, just to finish it. It's great having new 
 stuff to do in this game. Too bad it's not on the N64. The minigames will make you want to play 
 the game again, especially since much of them are very well done, and very fun too. It also has 
 a brand-new multiplayer mode, but it feels like a missed oportunity. A 4-player co-op (Mario, Luigi, 
 Wario, and Yoshi) cooperative mode would make this game a must-buy. But instead, it just has a 
 battle mode. Fun, but short.
  
  It's a decent start to the new Nintendo DS, but not the best it could had. The remakes of the past 
 Mario titles were fantastic, but this game doesn't live up to it.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: ColossusKiller
Rating: 8.3
Date: Jul 22, 2006 4:50 pm PT
Review:  Super Mario 64 DS is an update of the classic Super Mario 64 platformer, the breakthrough title 
 for the N64. SM64 reinvented platforming, with many levels, and some pretty neat jumping tricks. 
 Now, SM64 has returned, but with some new tricks. In the orignal, Mario alone saved Princess Toadstool 
 (or Peach) . Now, Luigi, Wario, and Yoshi have joined. Actully, you don't start as Mario. The story: 
 M, L, and W come to eat the cake Peach made for Mario (don't ask) . Anyway, they haven't been seen 
 in hours! So a friendly Lakitu tells Yoshi that he needs to find all of them. So, first, you need 
 to figure out how to find the "Character Portraits" that imprision Mario, Luigi, and Wario. Anyone 
 who played the original Super Mario 64 would know this: Levels are inside paintings. So essentially, 
 CP's are just themed mazes, then you face a boss who has the key to the room a character is locked 
 in.
  
  Also, there are 2 new (sort of) power ups. The Power Flower, and the Caps. The Power Flower has 
 a different effect on every character. Yoshi doesn't get the Flower, so he doesn't have an effect. 
 For Mario, he becomes bloated and he can float. For wispy Luigi, he becomes transparent, and can 
 walk through certain walls. And for stony Wario, he becomes steel, and falls to the bottom of every 
 body of water. If you remember, each of these power ups was in the original game. It's a new update. 
 
  
  For the Caps, any character can where any Cap. The cap will change you into whatever character 
 whose cap you're wearing. E. g. Yoshi wears Mario cap, gets Mario looks and powers. This can become 
 essential to your success in certain areas.
  
  Another new feature are the MINI GAMES. You will see many bunnies hidden all around the world. 
 If you catch one, he will give up a key. Give this to a Toad in the Playroom, and he unlocks a 
 MINI GAME for you. There are about 9-12 mini games per character. Many of them are creative uses 
 of the stylus. There's even a Shell Curling mini game for all of you Canadians!
  
  All in all, this game is a good remake of a classic game. The fact the it showed what the DS touch 
 capabilities were, especially with the mini games, this game is a good addition to any DS owners 
 collection. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Purarnick
Rating: 9.6
Date: Jul 22, 2006 7:53 am PT
Review:  At first i thought the game stunk and should be returned. But then i started beating levels getting 
 stars and just getting better at playing. The Rec Room is a nice feature. The sound is great and 
 reminds me of older Mario games. The controls are almost perfect. The graphics are the best they 
 can be for Mario. The value is perfect it is worth your money. Tilt is great because all you need 
 to press is "L" and you'll look frontwards. Overall the game is almost perfect, really, fun and 
 worthwhile buying. So get out there and go buy this awesome game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: superarmcannon
Rating: 8.6
Date: Jul 21, 2006 12:38 am PT
Review:  Personally, I preferred the controls, for I am not a joystick man. I prefer the D-pad. But having 
 to hold down B to get Mario running was a chore at times. Anyways, putting Yoshi, Wario and Luigi 
 in the mix really spiced things up. I found having the option to choose who you want to be, and 
 not being forced to be one for certain goals is fantastic. The minigames were just the right kind 
 of added bonus, and the action never stops, even after you've completed everything there is to 
 do. The game has plenty of replay value to give you more than your money's worth. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: payne6705
Rating: 9.6
Date: Jul 19, 2006 9:28 pm PT
Review:  when i first played mario 64 for the nintendo 64 i was in awe and loved every second of it now 
 nintendo remade it for the DS and its even better than the original first off the grapics are nicer 
 and mario looks like mario and bowser looks like bowser (for N64 players u know what i mean) there 
 are new players with special powers to help get more stars or coins also they are new rooms and 
 so far one new world (but its not big and can only get one star) there are also mini games that 
 are fun (basically the same ones in the new super mario games but they are still fun) there is 
 only one problem with this game is the controls in N64 the joystick helped you move mario with 
 ease and comfort with this game there are 3 controller styles 1. with the control pad and a, b, y, x 
 buttons 2. stylus and 3. only with the control pad none of them are comfortable but once you pick 
 a style you will get used to it it will be a enjoyable expirence the other problem is the sound 
 is kinda low with music and the sound effects are a little too loud but after awhile it wont bother 
 you much this game was awesome on the N64 and with this remake it makes it twice as good and reminds 
 us of the good days of gaming 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tvwatcher666
Rating: 9.6
Date: Jul 19, 2006 11:52 am PT
Review:  This is a remake of the old version, and it is alot better. The graphics, gameplay, well everything 
 is better. You first start out as Yoshi and enter the castle where Mario, Lugie, Wario, and the 
 princess have disppeared. As you continue to get stars, you unlock Mario, Lugie, and Wario. Throughout 
 the game, you battle Bowser who has captured Princess Peach. You collect stars to unlock new places 
 and get closer to battling Bowser and saving the princess. Do you think that you can save the princess? 
 Play this game and find out. This is a really good game. It is fun, fairly long, exciting, and 
 just plain awsome. Buy this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SpecialED1020
Rating: 8.3
Date: Jul 18, 2006 5:38 am PT
Review:  I loved Super Mario 64, like many, it was one of my first DS games. I played it non stop due to 
 it's easy to follow gameplay, addictiveness, and, i dont know if this is possible, its simplicity 
 yet complicity. It took me at least a month to 100% the game. Even when you beat the game keep 
 it because the levels are replayable and the mioni games are fantastic. Though the sounds in the 
 game can get repetitive, the music differs throughout the game to keep you from going crazy. The 
 characters ahving different powers is what really makes the game. If you liked the N64 version, 
 you'll love this. If you didn't like the N64 version, still give it a shot because there are many 
 differences, though there still is the same experiance. I think this is one of the few best games 
 on the DS. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: deeewooh
Rating: 8.2
Date: Jul 17, 2006 7:44 am PT
Review:  The DS game is a substantial improvement in terms of extras. In the N64 game, things like running 
 and the wall kick depended heavily upon the analog stick (the D-pad was useless) ; in the DS game, 
 running is accomplished by holding down the D-pad and pressing B, similar to the games from the 
 Spyro series. However, this makes the wall kick harder to pull off, but it does take some getting 
 used to. On the other hand, walking has been facilitated. In the N64 game, walking or running depended 
 upon how far you pushed forward on the analog stick; in the DS game, walking is accomplished simply 
 by pushing forward on the D-pad, which is a good thing because it makes tight spaces and small 
 platforms easier to move across. 
  
  As far as extras go, the N64 game gave you three things after you succeeded in collecting all 120 
 stars: the ability to fly around the castle's courtyard with the wing cap, 99 lives from Yoshi, 
 and a special triple jump, all three of which seemed to have no viable purpose whatsoever. The 
 DS game, however, is loaded with extras, including mini-games, extra levels (one of which was inspired 
 by Super Mario Sunshine) , and three unlockable playable characters, namely Yoshi, Luigi, and Wario, 
 each of whom will be required to collect all 150 power stars (they added 30 in this game) because 
 their abilities vary and have a one-to-one correspondence with certain objectives. What this means 
 is that you will not be able to use one character to acquire all 150 power stars. Additionally, 
 the developers have added power-ups that weren't found in the original game, such as Mario's ability 
 to float like a balloon (remarkably similar to his Super Mario World adventures) , there are more 
 wing cap boxes scattered throughout the levels, and the bird that helps you fly shows up more frequently. 
 
  
  I guess there's no such thing as perfection when it comes to a Super Mario 64 game, but I can't 
 say that this one is miles from it. Nintendo did well in adding a ton of extras. They also succeeded 
 in making the controls more viable, but for some reason, they downgraded some aspects of Mario's 
 dialogue speech. Other than that, though, this product is definitely worth checking out, especially 
 for anyone interested in an otherwise solid 3D platformer for the Nintendo DS system. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: starmaine1990
Rating: 8.8
Date: Jul 16, 2006 2:04 pm PT
Review:  Just think of it as Super mario 64 version 1.5 improved and refreshed. It's a shame that this game 
 wasn't meant to be played with a d-pad but you can still use the touch screen.
  
  Gameplay - It may take some getting use to since your d-pad instead of a joy stick but in time 
 you start to get feeling in the movement . Simple story like most Mario games peach has been held 
 hostage in her own castle and its up to Mario to save the day one again. Game real simple collect 
 stars to progress your way in the story. But dont think your done once you got 120 stars because 
 they have added 30 more stars into the game. New characters have been added such as Luigi , Wario 
 , and Yoshi are playable but two of them arent necessary since you can just find their caps and 
 control their special abilities unlocked by hitting red blocks ( Mario = fly , luigi = vanish , 
 and wario = metal) Graphics look excellent for the DS and are a little bit better than the N64 version.
 
  
  Even though the music maybe a bit out of date the tunes still fit perfectly well with the game. 
 Probably hast some of the best music quality then most DS games to date. They added mini games 
 as well incase you you might want to take a break . Nintendo really took the time on this game 
 to make it seem like a whole new game . Overall its good game for everybody and one of the better 
 games to get for your DS. Even if you played it already on the N64 give another try on the DS with 
 its new features , characters and mini games Im sure you will learn to enjoy the game all over 
 again
  
  Pros
  
  Extended story
  Mini games
  New characters
  better than the original
  
  Cons
  
  1) Touch screen sometimes makes the game a little to 
 easy since it can show you were another of the stars are located.
  2) Controls are little hard to master
  3) Hard to hit enemies with the controls
  4) Isn't really 
 a special reward when you collect every single star
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: sonicphoto
Rating: 8.8
Date: Jul 15, 2006 5:45 pm PT
Review:  The Nintendo 64 was a big seller with Super Mario 64. Because it changes completely the world of 
 Mario in 3D with huge worlds and its right now one of the best games of all time. 6 years later 
 they bring Super Mario Sunshine on the Gamecube which have most of the same gameplay but this time 
 you use a water pack. Then 2 years later the Nintendo DS its release and one of there launch titles 
 is Super Mario 64 DS. That is the same Super Mario 64 but with improved graphics and lots of things 
 added in the gameplay. 
  
  Gameplay: the gameplay consist of collecting all the Power stars that are in the different worlds 
 and inside Peach's Castle. Just like the Nintendo 64 version. This time you have 34 characters 
 added in the adventure: Luigi, Yoshi, Wario and of course Mario. You also have this Power Flower 
 that gives each character special power in which every character has different. You control the 
 character with the touch screen which at the beginning it might be a little hard but you can get 
 used to it. They are some worlds added too. For those who never played the Nintendo 64 version 
 to get in to the worlds you go inside the castle and jump into the paintings and they will tell 
 you the mission you have to do to get the star and enter the world. In the touch screen there is 
 a map that guides you to the location of the Power Star. But at the beginning you start with Yoshi 
 and then you have to unlock the other characters and there is also a Rec Room where you can play 
 mini-games using the touch screen and last they are 150 stars to collect 30 more then the original 
 game. 
  
  Mario's specific moves are: the wall kick, when he gets a power flower he haves the floating power 
 in which he becomes a balloon and can float to high places and the wings that when he gets them 
 he can take to the skies. 
  
  Yoshi's specific moves are: swallowing that he can swallow enemies and certain objects, the flutter 
 kick, when he gets a power flower he can breathe fire and when Yoshi's mouth is full he can lay 
 an egg. 
  
  Luigi's specific moves are: he can Scuttle, perform a backward somersault, he can run on the water 
 for a short time by running toward the water and jumping and when he gets a power flower, he becomes 
 invisible for a short time. 
  
  And last Wario's specific moves are: the Wario Wack which is a powerful move to break things the 
 others characters can't, he can swing and Fling other characters but only in vs. Mode and when 
 he gets a power flower he'll turn into metal for a while. 
  
  Graphics: Everything has completely improved from the Nintendo 64 version. The characters improve 
 a lot. Bowser looks just like the Gamecube Games. Background and the worlds are more detailed. 
 The lava and the grass look more real this time. Overall everything looks better then the Nintendo 
 64 version and it proves the potential graphics of the DS. 
  
  Sound: Not really much to say since the music tunes are the same as the original game. The only 
 thing is that you have surround sound on the DS so it sounds cooler. The little voiceovers of the 
 characters are quite nice and the annoying bowser laugh when you died is still there. Everything 
 else sounds good. 
  
  Multiplayer: The DS have the capabilities of playing wirelessly but it doesn't take that many feet. 
 It takes from your house to your neighbor's not that much long. But the idea of the multiplayer 
 is find more stars than the other characters. But you can punch or kick your opponents to steal 
 there stars. Every opponent starts with Yoshi in different colors so you must find the Mario, Wario 
 or Luigi cap to become one of them. 
  
  Replay: Multiplayer cannot be played that much since sometimes they are no people with the DS you 
 can still go back and play the bosses and all the stages you love. Plus the challenge of collecting 
 all 150 Power Stars might keep you playing this game for a while. 
  
  Overall: Super Mario 64 DS improves a lot of stuff of the Nintendo 64 version and is easily one 
 of the best launches titles of the DS. If you like the first game and you own a DS then buy this 
 game If you dont mind playing again Mario 64.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: DoctorEggman
Rating: 8.4
Date: Jul 14, 2006 2:37 pm PT
Review:  This game is very fun, and is alot better than the original Super Mario 64. The gameplay is like 
 this. You start off as Yoshi opening doors to get to different worlds where you will earn stars. 
 When you've earned enough stars to unlock the next area, you'll discover new worlds in which you'll 
 find even more stars. Shortly along the way, you'll unlock Mario and later, Luigi and Wario.
  Each character has strengths and weaknesses.
  Mario: has average abilities.
  
  Yoshi: is 
 pretty average, but cannot punch. Instead, he eats enemies, then spits them out or turns them into 
 homing eggs to throw.
  
  Luigi: can jump really high
  
  Wario: is really strong, butdoesn't jump high and is slow
  
  The stages are slightly changed 
 and the music is good and is kept the same as the original.
  
  The extra features include: Awesome minigames using the touch-screen, new stages and bosses. There's 
 also a drawing pad feature where you manipulate the picture you draw.
  
  I highly reccomend this game to anyone who loves 3D adventure games. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: RaidersR2Nice4U
Rating: 10
Date: Jul 13, 2006 4:59 pm PT
Review:  this game is highly addictive to any of the owners, setting a challenge, but not an impossible 
 challenge or an easy to conquer challenge, and thats what makes this game the perfect DS game to 
 have. its is fun time after time exploreing the maps and getting all the stars you can possibly 
 get, it was a great idea to take one of N64's greatest game and turn it into a DS game. i dont 
 know how anyone will not like this game it is perfect and flawless in every way. i myself have 
 beatin it 4 times already and still play it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Dark-Messenger
Rating: 7.8
Date: Jul 12, 2006 10:48 pm PT
Review:  Pros:
  +Just enough to make it more than a port
  +30 more stars
  +Graphics are up to snuff
  
  Cons:
  -No huge reward after finding all 150 stars
  -Hit and 
 miss on controls
  -Camera angle doesn't help with controls
  
  
  When I first picked up Mario 64 DS, I was a bit 
 skeptical at first. It looked like just a port from the original Mario 64. The opening scene starts 
 out just the same, with Princess Peach writing a letter to Mario, telling him to come to the castle 
 because she baked a cake, but instead of one pipe coming up from the ground, pop up, and the game 
 becomes more than just a port. Besides Mario as the only playable character, but Yoshi, Wario, 
 and Luigi are at your disposal, along with their own set of abilities. The story itself is the 
 same, Bowser (or Koopa) has kidnapped the Princess, stolen all the Star Power from the castle, 
 and now it's up to Mario, yet again, to save her and the day. In the DS version, however, you start 
 out as Yoshi, and ironically have to rescue Mario. 
  
  You don't have to rescue Wario and Luigi, however, some yellow stars can only be reached using 
 their special abilities. In addition to finding the yellow stars, 8 red coins, and 100 yellow coins, 
 each stage has a set of five silver stars, which can be easily obtained, but if you're hit while 
 carrying them, you'll drop it. The graphics are on par with its N64 counterpart, though some areas 
 look become bland. The touch screen is used as a map for each area you're in; it also shows the 
 location of the stars and red coins. You can also move your character with the touch screen using 
 the stylus pen, which makes up for the lack of an analog stick. The camera angle can make it difficult 
 sometimes to control the character on screen. The new multiplayer mode adds together 4 player via 
 wireless connections and different mini-games, this add replay value to the game itself once you're 
 done finding all 150 stars, 30 more than the original. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MavHZero
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jul 10, 2006 10:00 am PT
Review:  One of the first titles on the DS, and what a way for the next generation in handheld to appear! 
 Super Mario 64 was one of those games that revolutionised when it was first released. Now with 
 its re-release, it aims to repeat that magic... but doesn't quite get there.
  
  Oddly, Nintendo have chosen as the initial character, Yoshi. It seems, Mario has gone missing, 
 and Yoshi needs to find him! You'll notice immediately the world of Mario 64 has had a facelift. 
 The graphics are beautiful, and more detailed than the original. The same goes for the levels themselves.
 
  
  Speaking of which, there is a grand total of 150 Stars! Ahh, but wait, isn't that more than the 
 original total? Also, how would you accomidate the extra stars? More Levels of course! They all 
 have a similar theme to the original levels, though they do on occasions feel rushed.
  
  There are also extra bosses as well. Goomboss being one of them. The way of defeating the new bosses 
 requires as much thinking as the normal ones. Using Goomboss as an example, its picking up the 
 Goombas and running back to face the the big one in front and spiting them at him!
  
  There are a number of new characters here, since the original only had Mario. As aforementioned, 
 Yoshi is here, with his trademark boost to his jump and Tongue and Eggs too. He does act like Mario 
 with the jumps though. Also avaliable are Luigi and Wario. Luigi jumps higher, while Wario uses 
 his strength to get around.
  
  There are also mini-games here. These involve the touch screen even more, and more can be unlocked 
 via the main game. All the unlocked ones are a variation on the core games, but add a wicked twist 
 to them.
  
  So for all the praise I'm giving it, Why am I only saying its good?
  
  The controls while varied, are a mix. Using the D-Pad doesn't feel quite right, because the original 
 used an Analogue Stick. That is the way to play Super Mario 64. But even that is better than using 
 the touch screen. It just feels gimmicky and wrong. Platformers are never mean't to use a medium 
 other than a D-Pad or Analogue Stick to control, since they do the job better than anything else. 
 Keyboard and Joystick, maybe, but NOT Touch Screen! 
  The mini-games however, utilise the touch screen a lot better, and make it fun to play.
  
  
 So on the outside, this game is a fabulous remake of a revolution in gaming. However, one major 
 flaw has spoilt the magic of this game. If you can handle playing a game mean't to be played using 
 an analogue stick with a D-Pad, then you have hours of gameplay at your disposal. Just don't use 
 the touch screen. Seriously! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DeMoraledGamer
Rating: 9
Date: Jul 8, 2006 8:58 am PT
Review:  Super Mario 64 made it's first appearance on the N64. Now it has come back as a DS game with a 
 few upgrades. The graphics are probably rhe first noticeably change that anyone will see. They 
 have been redone with better and smoother looking graphics that show off that the DS can dispaly 
 great 3D grahics and is capable of doing great things. Another change is that now it isn't only 
 Mario who must save Peach, but he has help. Yoshi, Luigi, and Wario are included in this remake 
 of Super Mario 64. These four heros (yes Wario is considered a hero in this game) must lend their 
 powers in order to save Princess Peach and stop the notorious Bowser. 
  
  Each character has their own abilites that will help you achieve different obstacles and gain stars 
 that only they can obtain. Yoshi can hover a little to get to certain places, he can eat the baddies 
 and turn them to eggs to shoot at other baddies, and he has the ability to eat fire and then breathe 
 fire. Luigi can jump really high and when falling back down he spins slowing down his fall (very 
 useful in most cases) , he can punch, and he can run on top of water for a brief amount of time. 
 Wario is slow, can't jump high, but he is the strongest among the four and can break certain objects 
 that the others can't. Now lastly is Mario, he can pretty much do what Wario and Luigi can do only 
 less, so he is like an all round character who do everything well (that's Mario for you) .
  
  There are also specail abilites for each character. Yoshi can gain his ability by hitting a 
 box and retrieveing a flower from it to shoot fire for a time. Luigi must also retrieve a flower 
 to turn invisible to enter secret areas or to complete obstacles. Wario must also retrieve a flower 
 and in turn turns entirely metal so that he is invulnerable, sinks to the bottom of lakes but doesn't 
 need air, and is needed to get stars and finish obstacles. Mario must retrieve a feather rather 
 than a flower and he then growns wings on his hat and he could fly.
  
  The gameplay is very much similar to the orginal in which you got to different worlds by jumping 
 into paintings and must retrieve a certain amount of stars to pass through special doors in order 
 to go deeper into the castle. In gerneral this game is fun especailly for those who like platformers. 
 The sound still contains much from the orginal that made it so good (course if you like this game 
 then you won't really notice the sound too much) . the controls suit this game very well, the only 
 problem i have is that the control for the camera view id the touch screen which is hard to control. 
 The touch screen is also to move, but I find it hard to move so I just use the D-pad. Other than 
 that problem this game was built very well.
  
  A few more new editions is the slightly new ending, the new level (1 or 2, I just don't remember 
 but I do know there's one) , the bunch of hidden areas throughout the game, the new mini games section, 
 and mutiplayer.
  
  Multiplayer in this game isn't all that great. There is only one game that is to see who can get 
 and hold on to the most stars before time runs out. Honestly I didn't like it too much (even when 
 I play with my friends) , but it's a good way just to have fun when there's nothing to do. Super 
 Mario 64 DS is a must have for DS owners, not for the multiplayer so much, but for the still excting 
 single player adventure mode. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Machine_Shop
Rating: 8.4
Date: Jul 6, 2006 10:38 pm PT
Review:  Super Mario 64 DS is a remake of the original Super Mario 64 on the N64. A major difference however, 
 is the addition of Yoshi, Luigi, and Wario as playable characters all with special abilities. It's 
 the same world as the N64 but several missions have been altered so you will have to use the different 
 character's abilities to get the power stars. Others are just as you remember. There have also 
 been many power stars added to the game to keep things interesting. Another addition is the mini-games. 
 There are 36 mini-games to play, each involving you using the stylus to get a high score. The game's 
 graphics look slightly better than the N64 version. They are polished and bright. The music is 
 the same as the N64 version but the sound effects are great. With the main story, the mini-games, 
 and going back to do those fun missions over again, you should find Super Mario 64 DS to be great 
 fun. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: linkrul3s
Rating: 9.1
Date: Jul 2, 2006 7:39 pm PT
Review:  Guess what? Bowser has captured Peach again and it is up to Yoshi, Mario, Luigi, and Wario to save 
 her. The story line is that basically you start out as Yoshi and you find out that all the paintings 
 in the castle become like a real place when you jump into them and you need to collect all the 
 stars in each painting by doing all the missions it tells you to do. As you progress through the 
 story you unlock more characters and when you do you get to play as them.
  
  Gameplay: The gameplay is awsome 'cause with the few buttons the DS has you can do a lot of moves 
 such as ground pound, stomp, change camera angles, jump, and much more.
  
  Graphics: The graphics are a lot better than the N64 version of the game 'cause you can see the 
 whole course and you can tell the difference between friend and fiend.
  
  Sound: The sound is great because you can here every footstep your character takes and as for music 
 the music is okay but it could hsve been better a lot better.
  
  Value: The game is going to be in your DS for a long long time.
  
  Tilt: There is so much to 
 do besides collect stars. You can try to catch rabbits who will give you keys to unlock new mini 
 games and those mini games...
  Lets just say you are going to be playing thaose longer than you will be playing the game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Geitsau
Rating: 7.9
Date: Jun 30, 2006 7:53 am PT
Review:  Gameplay:
  First of all, the fact that they addes Luigi, Wario and Yoshi makes this much more fun. You get 
 so much more in this game than in the original, so if you've played the original on the 64, and 
 liked it, don't be afraid to buy this one, because you get tons of new features. With a number 
 of new tracks and 30 new stars to be attained this is a great update from the original. Tons of 
 fun to do. But they also added mini-games, which are, in my opinion TERRIBLE! That's why this doesn't 
 score a 10. The mini-games are tedious and really a test of patience! Don't bother about those, 
 just play in Adventure Mode. Multiplayer is fun as well, but nothing spectacular.
  
  Graphics:
  The graphics are really great for a DS game. It looks just as good, if not better, 
 than it did on the Nintendo 64. Nothing to complain about here!
  
  Sound:
  Well, it's basically the same old music/sound as on the 64. Of course, they added sound effects 
 to Yoshi, Wario and Luigi, but I think that's all they changed (maybe they added music to a few 
 tracks as well) . Regular Mario music, nothing you really want to listen to. The music never really 
 gets annoying, but I guess you can't make good music to a Mario game.
  
  Value:
  I grew tired of this game after I got the 150 stars. There's nothing there to keep you hooked afterwards, 
 and playing the game over again is kinda boring, at least for the first year. The mini-games, as 
 mentioned above, are HORRIBLE, so they don't really help the value of this game.
  
  Tilt:
  I've always enjoyed Mario games, and this is no exception. The good ol' story about Bowser 
 capturing the princess works perfectly, as always. The addition of Yoshi, Wario and Luigi, that's 
 the most major update in this game. It's four times as much fun with four characters (well, almost) .
 
  All in all, if you liked Super Mario 64, or if you just like Mario in general, this game is a 
 safe bet. Getting the 150 stars for the first time is really fun.
  
  A great remake of a huge classic. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Cello3
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jun 28, 2006 9:18 am PT
Review:  This is a great game for the DS and was my first game. I had an N64 and of course Super Mario 64, 
 so I thought this game would be good, and it was even more than I expected. The ability to change 
 characters was good, cuz I'd rather use Luigi more than Mario every time. The game was easy to 
 pick up and in five minutes you'll already be a pro jumping on all your enemies, or when you get 
 Mario and the others punching all your enemies. The bosses are also easy because they tell you 
 how to beat them.
  
  The graphics were amazing too. I haven't seen many games with graphics as good as this game on 
 the DS. It was just one huge environment that you steadily unkocked, but there wasn't any load 
 time between areas except a quick clip of music or a star selection.
  
  The sound was great too. There were little noises that each of the characters made at certain times 
 and Peach talked. There were also noises everywhere to help blend the environment together and 
 the themes to each level were very good.
  
  This game also had a lot of extras including mini-games, caused by rabbit catching, 30 new stars, 
 and is a simply fun game that you can always go back to when you're bored.
  
  This game is simply a great game on the DS that you shouldn't miss out on. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: EliteDForce
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jun 26, 2006 8:08 pm PT
Review:  The original is a highlight of the system, the new one is a worthy buy. It adds a surprisingly 
 lot for a remake, (or update) and is a ribbon of memory's flowing back. While it doesn't add enough 
 to really fill up the void time created, it certainly leaves you satisfied.
  
  Unless your a veteran of the game then, then its really little more than a short-lived quick and 
 fresh rerun of your favorite classic (which many of us, including me, still own) .
  
  Graphics - 9
  They look and play really nicely on the DS, but still have at some times the grainy 
 and choppy quality.
  
  Sound - 10
  Amazing sound tracks, memorable effects and an overall phenomenal sound environment.
  
  Gameplay 
 - 8
  The camera persists to be annoying, as in the original, and the gameplay feels a little dated. 
 Though it still delivers fully.
  
  Overall - 8.5
  You might as well play the original, it really doesnt add a whole lot new to the game it began 
 as. Nonetheless, its a pretty good game and an easy recommendation. Another factor bringing it 
 down, is its boring multiplayer. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: brigpeach92
Rating: 7
Date: Jun 26, 2006 4:20 pm PT
Review:  The first time i played this game i couldn't stop for more than an hour because it was entertaining. 
 the game has different worlds to visit and you have to get as much stars to get to open up new 
 worlds. There are also more then one bowser to fight. You have to find secret dungeons and other 
 things that are hidden in the game. I also play super mario 64 on DS and it had much more things 
 to do but mostly all were similar. You got to play with different characters not like in nintendo 
 64. The characters you can be are mario and aswell as yoshi. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Cursed_Shadow
Rating: 9
Date: Jun 25, 2006 7:38 pm PT
Review:  Super Mario 64 DS is aparently very close to the N64 version. In which Bowser has stolen these 
 magic stars and has imprissoned Mario, Luigi, Wario and (suprise suprise) Peach. You start off 
 as Yoshi and fight you way through levels saving heros until you save Peach.
  
  Gameplay: This is a good game with little things to do on the side instead of just beating the 
 game straight on. During the game you find these rabbits, if you catch them you will unlock a new 
 minigame (there are over 20 minigames) . But the actual story is pretty good... the maps are good... just 
 falling off the edge and having to start the level all over again is annoying.
  
  Graphics: Very impressive. i am quite new to the ds, so i'm not sure if these kind of graphics 
 are average. But the full 3D maps and characters and... you name it... they all look very good!
 
  
  Sound: Just like many portable games, the sound is never anything to be proud of, but in this game 
 it shows of the stereo use. When you are outside the castle you can hear birds from one side and 
 something else on the other. Or when a rabbit runs past you... you can hear it. it is well done.
 
  
  Value: This game has 3 save files, so you dont have to delete your main save file to play the game 
 again. Not only that but the amount of minigames that are in there will get you playing these weird 
 games everynow and then (but you may want screen protectors because they are all stylus based)
 
  
  All in all: There is mainly just one thing that brings this game down.... its dodgy d-pad controls. 
 Since this game was on the N64 you had the analog stick, the ds doesnt. So you may find yourself 
 falling off ledges unintentionally, which then you have to start the level all over again. Apart 
 from that the story is ok.... but its a good game. Everyone should at least try this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Tagger04
Rating: 6.5
Date: Jun 22, 2006 4:45 pm PT
Review:  I really don't know what to say about this game. When I first bought it I thought "Cool, another 
 Mario Game!" and when I actually played it, I really didn't like it. I really think I have spent 
 more time playing with the picture of Mario on the front screen and playing mini-games than I have 
 in the actual game. Why? Because in the story mode the graphics (in my opinion) are only mediocore 
 and the sound (again in my opinon) isn't all that great. The game is way to easy on any level. 
 This is my opinon of a very disappointing game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: quadrafop
Rating: 9.1
Date: Jun 22, 2006 10:56 am PT
Review:  The big negative on this game was the lack of analog control, etc, which kept me away from it for 
 so long. But I loved this game when it came out on the 64, in fact, it was the one that got me 
 back into gaming, and is probably my favorite game ever. This nostalgia is what got me to finally 
 pick it up, and I'm soooo glad I did. 
  
  I'm left handed, so using the stylus plus the buttons on the right was a natural fit, it took less 
 than a half hour to get rolling. It may not be the absolute perfect fit, but I had my own quarrels 
 with the analog stick/camera on the original 64 title. This isn't much different, the controls 
 don't work well everywhere, but overall I'm very pleased. 
  
  The best part of this game for me is the level designs. After playing through Super Mario Sunshine 
 it really makes you appreciate how smart and fun these levels are. I forgot how much fun it is 
 to fly with Mario!
  
  Having this game available in portable format is AWESOME. The extra characters and levels give 
 it just enough extra to feel like its not the same thing all over again. I picked up Legend of 
 Zelda OOT for the Cube, and was pretty disappointed at how primitive it was (camera angles, etc) . 
 It hasn't been a distraction with SM64DS - it stands up there with every other DS title I've played. 
 
  
  If you loved the original, and have a good comfort level using the stylus with other games like 
 Metroid Prime Hunters and Animal Crossing Wild World, you should have a great time with this.
 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: wmg1299
Rating: 9.2
Date: Jun 21, 2006 1:15 pm PT
Review:  Super Mario 64 DS can most simply be described as pure Nintendo. I was one of many gamers who never 
 owned a Nintendo 64 system, so Super Mario 64 DS is my first experience with the title. Some readers 
 who have criticized the title when comparing it to its predecessor will have to keep this in mind 
 during my review.
  As a stand alone title, Super Mario 64 DS offers a quality gaming experience. The graphics may 
 not hold up to todays home console standards, but I consider them fairly impressive for a handheld. 
 The sounds and music continue to keep Nintendos high quality standards.
  The gameplay in this title, which originally brought 3D platforming to the forefront, remains. 
 The camera can be a little difficult at times, but players reserve the right to adjust the in-game 
 view by using the L button. Otherwise, controls are responsive and the basic run/jump/attack action 
 that made Mario famous is as good in this title as in any of the others.
  The game still offers a good deal of content, and offers players hours of platforming and minigames. 
 The inclusion of the touch screen into the mini-games is definitely a plus and keeps this title 
 from being just a straight port. Players now go through the game as 4 characters, instead of just 
 Mario, which should also offer a little something new to those who are revisiting this title.
 
  Other than the camera, there is very little not to like about this game. I would prefer for more 
 of the dialogue to have been spoken than written, but this is a very minor detail.
  Most of this games critics harp on the fact that this is an N64 port and does not necessarily 
 hold up to todays standards. I cannot hold it against Nintendo that the industry has advanced 
 since this game was originally released, and am just thankful to be able to revisit a classic that 
 I missed the first time around. 
  I would recommend Super Mario 64 DS as a purchase for any platformer fan or anyone who did not 
 get a chance to play the original. If you are one of the few gamers who played the original N64 
 version and didnt enjoy it, you will probably feel the same way about the portable version. 
 
  If you are a die-hard classic gamer who cant stand for their games to be updated, then I recommend 
 dusting off your N64 and having a few rounds with the original. Many gamers would be satisfied 
 just to play the original again, and the added minigames serve as a bonus. Super Mario 64 DS has 
 something to offer any gamer who is open to enjoying a little classic video game heritage, or anyone 
 who isnt afraid to admit that they enjoy the Mario titles.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Kiplor
Rating: 9.7
Date: Jun 21, 2006 1:31 am PT
Review:  Oh my lord yes! Nintendo, I love you!!!
  
  This is a great remake of the Nintendo 64 classic, originally only being able to play as Mario 
 (no complaints) . But the boys at Nintendo must have dreamed the idea of multiple characters to 
 be able to play as, and best of all, theres Wario!! I love Wario! 
  
  This game is good fun, expanding so well on the original, adding a lot of stars (the main point 
 of the game is to collect these :P) , even if they all the new stars seem to revolve around the 
 same sort of goal, hitting a button and running for a star, or searching the castle walls using 
 tricks and such.
  
  They added character specific attributes to this game which including Yoshi being able to shoot 
 fire and flutter jump, Luigi doing his scuttle jump and massive back flips, Mario with his trademark 
 64 move, wall kicking and Wario with his massive butt pound and basically being able to own the 
 face of all the other bad guys in this game.
  
  All in all, most definitely worth your time
  
  Peace 'n' Chicken grease
  Kipman
  
  Peace 
 'n' Chicken greese
  Kipman 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Chrisdinozilla
Rating: 8.7
Date: Jun 18, 2006 7:45 pm PT
Review:  Super Mario 64 DS is quite possibly the best remake ever. It's just like the original, but now 
 with you're favorite Mario characters. Luigi, Yoshi, and Wario (my personal favorite) all make 
 a playable apperance in this game. And that's just part of the excitement.
  
  There's a brand new mini-game mode, where you can play all sorts of.... mini-games *cough*. Plenty 
 of fun, addictive mini-games to enjoy, including some casino games as well! Sadly, some of the 
 game tend to be a bit hard, or boring. Still, there are plenty of games to keep you busy.
  
  If you liked the original, you'll love this. Those who want a portable version of a classic 
 Nintendo 64 game, or just those who want to play as Luigi in the original, must get this game. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: NCAA06_dude
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jun 17, 2006 2:41 pm PT
Review:  Man I remember Playing Mario 64 24/7 for the N64 back in a long time ago. I couldnt wait to play 
 it again on handheld, as for this was the first DS game I bought. Super Mario 64 DS, for the Nintendo 
 DS is a little different from the Super Mario 64 that you knew and grew up with. In the beginning 
 you will be surprised to find the beginning a little changed, you taking conotrol of yoshi, but 
 don't worry you will get your old lil' plumber soon, and other characters like Luigi and Wario 
 which all have different abilitys. Other than that this is the same game, for better. All the levels 
 are still there and all the annoying never ending stairs are still there. Another New edition to 
 this game are the mini games! OK, you might be thinking I don't want to play mini games, I want 
 to play Mario, but these mini games are very, very fun, at least to me they are.
  
  Ok, the Review.
  
  GAMEPLAY: 10/10 They nintendo DS controls the 3-D graphics very well, and 
 I think nintendo should bring some more platformers to the DS *cough* Banjo Kazooie *cough*
  
  GRAPHICS: 10/10 These graphics look the same as they did on the N64, or even better.
  
 
  SOUND: 9/10 Great Music, average sound effects, what more could you ask for?
  
  Value: 7/10 The value won't keep you playing this game for that long although, maybe the mini games 
 will keep it alive for a couple weeks though.
  
  Bottom Line. This is a must have for people who have never played this game, and for people who 
 have played the game i'd recomend you just rent it to see the semi-new adventure. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tbui54
Rating: 7.8
Date: Jun 17, 2006 2:30 pm PT
Review:  THE GOOD: Classic game with new content . Nice visuals. Lengthy quest.
  
  THE BAD: Awkward controls. Poor camera system. Sometimes frustrating.
  
  Super Mario 64 DS 
 has more to offer than the N64 version, but is not quite as great.
  
  GAMEPLAY is good. As with most Mario games, Princess Peach gets kidnapped and our favorite plumbers 
 are off to the save the day. However, the game now offers 4 playable characters (Mario, Luigi, 
 Wario, and Yoshi) each with their own abilities and some other new content like minigames.
  
  All this sounds greats, but the controls really suffer in the transition from console to handheld. 
 With the lack of an analog stick, controlling Mario and the gang is difficult and the poor camera 
 system doesn't make it any easier.
  
  GRAPHICS are nice. The game looks a bit better than the N64 game, but considering this is on a 
 handheld the game is pretty impressive. The frame rate and character models animate well and the 
 game is just nice to look at.
  
  SOUND is classic. The game sounds almost the same as the original with a few changes. The music 
 is light and catchy and the the voice samples give the game that Mario touch. Of course, all this 
 is softer than the N64 version and not as clean and clear.
  
  VALUE is great. It's going to take some time to collect all the stars and the quest itself is long. 
 The game also has a multiplayer mode that other DS owners can join playing off 1 game cartridge. 
 It isn't that worthwhile or compelling, but it's nice to try out at least once.
  
  OVERALL Super Mario 64 DS is a good concept that could have been so much better with more responsive 
 controls. People who already played the game on the N64 are better off passing on this one and 
 remembering the game as a classic, but those new to the game should give it a try. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: weakan
Rating: 9.1
Date: Jun 13, 2006 11:44 am PT
Review:  with the new charakters, mini games and levels and the new multiplayer mode via nds download play 
 make this game one of the cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool 
 cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool 
 cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool 
 cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool 
 cool cool cool cool cool cool cool coolest remake game ever. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: oceanshoreview
Rating: 9.2
Date: Jun 12, 2006 12:33 pm PT
Review:  Super Mario 64, the plumber's first dive into the world of 3D gaming could not have been a more 
 enjoyable experience. Now that experience gets to be relived with more polygons, more stars, a 
 ton of mini-games, more characters and its portable. 
  
  This was the first game I picked up with my DS back when it came out. I figured that since the 
 64 one was so good I couldn't go wrong. For the most part, I was right, but I still had a few complaints. 
 
  
  The gameplay is just like it was on the 64, but with one exception, no control stick. Using the 
 d-pad can be a bit of a headache at times; this is my major complaint for Super Mario 64 DS. The 
 control stick gave you more precision for your movements than a d-pad can ever offer. Also, you 
 must hold in a button to make your character run, if you don't they will simply walk. This makes 
 it a bit awkward to control. 
  
  You can also control your character with the touchscreen simply by moving your finger or the stylus 
 around on it. Basically, wherever you touch it is set as the "middle" then whatever direction you 
 move from there moves your character, but I didn't like controlling it this way very much. 
  
  Everything from there on about the game is amazing though. So, with that out of the way let 
 us continue. 
  
  This version of the game allows you to play as 4 different characters instead of simply Mario in 
 the 64 version. In fact, Mario isn't even your main character in this one. You'll start off as 
 Yoshi and as you go through the game you'll find caps that turn you into Wario, Mario, and Luigi. 
 Instead of finding the invisible, metal and flying caps each character will be equipped with their 
 own similar ability. 
  
  You'll also find a lot more stars in this version of the game. Although there are only a few new 
 areas to explore, there are now 7 stars in every level instead of only 6 (plus the star for collecting 
 100 coins) . There are also a ton of mini-games to play. They are all fairly fun (minus some of 
 Luigi's card games) . Some of them are super addicting. This is more than enough extra material 
 to make rebuying Mario 64 worthwhile. 
  
  The graphics have been updated slightly it seems. They feel very similar to the 64 with a little 
 bit of an edge. Very nice for the DS. 
  
  If you loved this game on 64 then you should definitly pick it up again and if you haven't experienced 
 it then you have to and this is a fine place to start. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: stevo1000
Rating: 7.2
Date: Jun 9, 2006 10:24 am PT
Review:  Super Mario 64 DS is decent game for the DS, but not revolutionary. I have to say i do like some 
 Mario games but don't like all of them. I'm afraid to say that this is one of them. The problem 
 is that the game lasts a while but you might get a bit bored after continiously collecting stars 
 (150 of them in all!) . That was the case with me. The game does lack some depth, like why can't 
 they give us something else to collect or something more like a RPG rather than a adventure game. 
 I haven't completed it. Why? Well i got bored of it. Another thing you don't have much places to 
 explore. You're just in a castle all the time, going into levels and collecting stars. And the 
 multiplayer is rubbish. All you do is have a race to the stars. Although there are some little 
 cool minigames if you are getting bored. My advice though, is if you're going to get a Mario game 
 get Mario Kart DS (Superb) or New Super Mario Bros. (Even better) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DLB2
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jun 7, 2006 5:53 pm PT
Review:  When Super Mario 64 was created for the N64, it changed the way we play games. It featured on of 
 the first cameras ever to be controlled around 360 degrees, and started many new gameplay elements 
 that we see today. Mario DS (as I call it) isnt exactly the same Mario as before. Everything is 
 beefed up like graphics, to the levels. Mario DS is the best DS game out at this moment. 
  
  Story 
  This game starts out when Princess Toadstool, AKA Peach, writes Mario a letter to 
 come to her castle. She has baked a cake for Mario, but this time around, Mario doesnt come alone, 
 he takes his frightened brother, Luigi, and his greedy rival, Wario. They each enter the castle 
 but are no where to be seen. Yoshi, who has been snoozing on top of the castle, finds himself being 
 waken by a scared toad who tells Yoshi that Princess Peach has been captured by Bowser, and that 
 Mario, Luigi, and Wario are locked away inside the castle. Yoshi sets off to find the Mario brothers, 
 and save back Peach. 
  
  Graphics 
  Mario DS looks spectacular. Everything is compressed to fit a smaller screen so it looks better 
 then the 64 version. Mario has gone through some changes as well. He is tuned up to look more like 
 Mario we saw back in 2002 in Super Mario: Sunshine. He no longer has a pointy nose, and isnt so 
 stubby looking. The castle grounds look a lot better, and the walls on the buildings look more 
 realistic then before. Much like Mario, Bowser has been tuned up a bit. The way he walks looks 
 more like a reptile/dinosaur then ever before. Although he isnt Multicolored like in 64, he still 
 looks MUCH better. The enemies look also better then before. The polygons went through some fantastic 
 changes. The Goombas look better then ever, and the bomboms make a fantastic explosion when they 
 burst. If you ever get a close up on the characters, they will look like a game that you would 
 expect to find on a Sega Dreamcast. Mario DS looks outstanding, and even better then the one you 
 can play on the 64. 
  
  Sound Effects and Audio 
  Mario 64 featured an incredible soundtrack, and the DS version features every one of those catchy 
 little tunes. Since the DS features very nice stereo sound, Mario sounds better then ever. Every 
 level has a fantastic theme song that fits the mood of the level. If its a water level, it will 
 sound sort water like. Along with a great soundtrack, all 4 characters have there Has, and Yuppies, 
 and other shouts. You will hear Marios famous Mama Mia plenty of times, and you wont miss out 
 on Yoshis little beeps. When Bowser walks the ground shakes, and theres other really cool sound 
 effects in the remake of the game that changed the way we play videogames. 
  
  Gameplay 
  Super Mario 64 featured many fresh gameplay elements that other games have copied for years. Mario 
 DS has ALL those great elements and more. It is a platforming game, but the controls are a bit 
 touchy. The characters have a tendency to slide around, and it feels awkward playing a 3D game 
 with a control pad. You can use the thumb pad and touch screen. but that takes some time to get 
 used to. In Mario DS, Mario isnt alone. You know can choose between Yoshi, Luigi, or Wario, each 
 with there special abilities and side-effects. Yoshi is fast and can jump high, but since he cant 
 punch, hes not as powerful, but instead, and he can swallow enemies and turn them into eggs, and 
 throw them. When Yoshi gets a power flower, he is allowed to breathe fire on his enemies, and melt 
 ice. Mario is all around good. Hes the same we saw back in 1996. When he gets a power flower, 
 he turns into a balloon and can float to reach high places. Luigi is my favorite. He can jump really 
 high, and when he does a back flip, he can tornado-glide through the air. He can also run fast, 
 and punch. When Luigi gets a power flower, he turns invisible and can go through cages and other 
 walls, and is invulnerable to attacks. Wario is the slowest, and fattest of the bunch. He cant 
 jump high, but he is REALLY powerful. Wario can break open blocks that Mario or Luigi cant. When 
 Wario gets a power flower, he turns metal and cant be harmed, but most importantly, he sinks with 
 it. In Mario 64 you could get a Metal Cap, but only Wario can turn metal which is a bit of a drag 
 at some times. When you are Mario, and you spot some feathers, Mario will sprout wings from his 
 hat and will be able to fly in air. Although you cant get any higher then your jump, its still 
 loads of fun. Now, what happeneds when you arent the right character for the level? Never fear, 
 you can pick up some well-placed caps that will turn you into that character. You have it until 
 you get injured and then you loose it. Along with more characters, there are 30 more stars to collect. 
 There are also numerous boss battles that you will have ground pound, punch, or dodge to defeat 
 them. In Mario DS you see some familiar faces like the cute Goombas, and the Wiggler, or Koopa 
 the Quick (Or as I can him, Koopa the Pimp) . Unlike Mario 64, the DS version has a multiplayer 
 mode where you have to catch a star. You can jump, punch, and kick the other players to slow them 
 down. Its not the greatest multiplayer since you have to be Yoshibut you can collect a cap to 
 change into the characters that you want, and there are only 5 different levels to choose from. 
 Whats really surprising is the Rec Room where you can play 30+ mini-games that test your hand-eye 
 coordination, memory, and eyesight. Most games involve using the touch screen, and there are some 
 really great ones. Theres 1 game where it seems like bowling, but every time 1 of your koopa shells 
 hits another you get points. If a green shell hits a green shell, you get extra points. My high 
 score is 51000+. There is also a game where you use a sling-shot and sling a rock to hit bomb-oms 
 before they fall and land on the toads. Mario DS feels like a brand new experience, with the added 
 Luigi, Wario, and Yoshi, its loads of fun. The controls are a bit shaky, but are easily forgotten 
 after a while of playing. The multiplayer is fun with 4 people, but just nothing great, but all 
 around Super Mario 64 DS is a superb game. 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: RulerOfHaloween
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 7, 2006 7:41 am PT
Review:  Super Mario 64 DS is one of the best freakin games I have ever played. Right as we speak I am trying 
 to get the last 12 stars. Dang freakin' 100 coins. Anyway, I give it an overall ten, for amazing graphics, awesome 
 gameplay, and excellent characters. Provides a hard challenge, thats why I give it a ten. It will make 
 you mad when you miss the dang coin for the tenth time. The most awesome attribute is the new characters 
 and there abilitys. I know Mario already had these abilitys but these characters are more fit to 
 these powers. The characters Personalitys  
 Wario: Greedy=Metal (Like some money.) . Thats how there powers where casted. This is the most awesome 
 games ever. The best classic turned into the best new game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sonic2DAmax
Rating: 8.7
Date: Jun 5, 2006 1:44 pm PT
Review:  Dont get me wrong im a nintendo fanboy but this game made a less interesting copy though put it 
 on the DS format good. You start off as Yoshi and going through the same picture/stage order from 
 super mario 64. You collect caps wich turn you into mario, luigi, or wario to acomplish special 
 needs but you can get that cap knocked wright off. The previous Mario game didnt have mini-games 
 but this one does. Each time you collect a Rabbit it unlocks a new mini-game. You need a certain 
 amount of stars to open a door to get the characters but 1st you collect the stars then you find 
 their portraits and save them from whom ever then you can unlocked them. What was really disappointing 
 was that when you battle Bowser you use the touch screen to twirl Bowser and you press A to let 
 go thats to much when you have to hold the DS and keep twirling and A-ing. Over all its an interesting 
 copy but not as good as the original. I dont highly recomend this but its a good game for the first 
 time around. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: brain_ager
Rating: 8.8
Date: Jun 4, 2006 3:31 pm PT
Review:  Super Mario 64 DS is one of the best Nintendo DS games of all time! From the original version on 
 the Nintendo 64, the DS version has added many new features, such as being new characters. The 
 characters you can be is Yoshi, Luigi, Wario, and of course, Mario. Another new feature is the 
 game is multiplayer. Up to 4 guys can play at once with only one card. The last new feature is 
 the minigames. The minigames are fun and test your touch screen skills. The story line is the exactly 
 the same as the original. If you've beaten the original, this game is more difficult than what 
 you've played. THIS GAME IS AWSOME!!!!!!!!!!!!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lotsabacon
Rating: 9.1
Date: Jun 4, 2006 9:09 am PT
Review:  Super Mario 64 DS is a great to have in your collection. You might think that its just a remake 
 of the old version on the Nintendo 64 but there are alot of new features in the game to keep it 
 exiting. There are now 3 new character that you can play as through out the game. Wario, Luigi, 
 and Yoshi. And of course you play as Mario. They all have special attributes that come in handy 
 to reach stars and what not. There is also a rec room where you can play mini really fun minigames. 
 Its alot of fun trying to beat your friends high score so that you know you are at the top. You 
 start out with 8 minigames and then through out the game there are many little rabbits running 
 around the castle. If you are Mario and you catch one then you unlock a minigame in Mario's category. 
 If you are Wario and catch a bunny then you unlock a minigame in his category. But other than the 
 new characters and the rec room there isnt many new things in the game. There are a few new power 
 ups but you can figure out those when you play the game yourself. If you liked the game on the 
 64 then you will love this game for your DS. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: OblivionGuy07
Rating: 8.8
Date: Jun 3, 2006 10:24 am PT
Review:  When the DS first came out, there wren't that many great games, well, except this one. This was 
 my first DS game, and definitey one of my favorite games on the system. Even though it is a remake 
 of the game Mario 64, which came out in 1996 on the Ninteno 64, there are so many new things to 
 make feel too much the same. First off at the begining, you start off as Yoshi, and you need to 
 unlock the three other chracters, which are Luigi, Mario, and Wario. Also, there are 30 more stars, 
 which means that each evel now has seven stars rather then six. The game also offers some memorable 
 minigames, that I spend hours playing. It was fun searching for the rabbits that were located in 
 different areas, according to which character you were using. Lastly, there is a new multiplayer 
 feature, which is very fun. The game is a bit more challenging too, in the old game, you needed 
 less stars to defeat Bowser in the end then you do in this one. You might find beating the game 
 fairly easy, but collecting the coin stars, the regular stars, and the Castle Secret stars is very 
 challenging. Unocking the characters Luigi and Wario was no walk in the park either, you had to 
 use your brain in finding out how to unlock them. Whatever you do, don't miss out on this fantastic 
 DS game, as it is a classic remade. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: IcE-Fu-
Rating: 8.6
Date: Jun 1, 2006 7:31 pm PT
Review:  This is exactly like the mario game for the nintendo 64. but its portable! there isn't much to 
 say about this game instead of addicting! you will be playing this game for alot of hours. this 
 isnt a game where you could pick up and play dureing a car trip. you will be playing this for atleast 
 and hour a sitting. this game has mini adventures and crazy mazes that will let you playing for 
 more than a week. that is pretty long for a DS game. Ok so this is how it works you collect stars 
 to unlock doors the more doors you unlock the more places you can go to. But just because you beet 
 that level dosent meen But in this game they give you mini games that you can use the touch screen. 
 but just incase if you didnt play the one for the nintendo 64 this game is a adventure game that 
 is with the heroic mario... this is the first 360 adeventure game with mario. Just to tell you 
 there is no camera problems! well there are some but it rarly happens with the new button that 
 fixes it in a snap. and also on you're journy you will meet new charicters such as Yoshi, Luigi, 
 and wario. they have they're own spiecial unique powers. This game is good but a little to much 
 alike from its big brother. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: oakbend
Rating: 9.3
Date: May 30, 2006 8:03 pm PT
Review:  This is a game that any DS owner and or Mario lover should not be with out! This game is basically 
 just the N64 one but with: better graphics!, A ton of extra's, and New characters! This game starts 
 of with Mario, Luigi, and Wario on their way to peach's castle, as they enter the castle they don't 
 come out. Lakitue alerts Yoshi ( who is sleeping on top of the castle ) , that Mario, Luigi, and 
 Wario have still not yet returned. So its up to yoshi to go in find them and help rescue the princess! 
 They're a lot of extra and new stars in this game. You now get to use more than one character! 
 ( 4 to be exact ) . Every character has their own unique ability that they can use. Like Mario can 
 bloat up like a giant balloon, (recognized from Super Mario World) , Luigi can turn transparent 
 for a good couple of seconds, Wario can turn into steel, and Yoshi can eat fire. This gets rid 
 of the caps from the first. The controls are kind of hard to get used to especially since there 
 is now analog stick, but you'll get used to it pretty quickly. There really isn't any need to use 
 the touch screen but if you want to play it in a different way then go for it! There are also keys 
 you can find by catching rabbits that unlock many mini-games. I play the mini games every now and 
 then, they're very fun and there are a lot of them (more than 4 for each character) . This is a 
 great game to get ( maybe even better than the first one on the N64...) , and any DS owner or Mario 
 fan should not be without! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Corby17
Rating: 8
Date: May 30, 2006 7:13 pm PT
Review:  This great but its not the best. You start out as Yoshi and u have to collect stars from the paintings 
 until u get to 8 and then u can try and get mario after that u keep getting stars and get all the 
 characters and u kill bowser. I've beat the game twice already and i'm tired of it! Here's the stuff 
 thats a little more important: 
  They really upgraded mario so that he looks kinda like mario on Super Smash Bro. Melee. Before 
 mario was just so pointy. It has great graphics and nice happy music in the backround that will 
 get you humming it all day. It has very nice colours in all stages. Great mini-games that will 
 grow on you. The multiplayer wasn't that great but it's ok for just 4 people to play and only one 
 kind of game (catching as many stars as you can) . There are only 4 levels to choose from so you get 
 bored easily. They should have put tons more multi-player games in. I would have definitly bought 
 it sooner if it had better multi-player. I agree with Jivekibbles about the Wi-Fi part but I also 
 disagree because if mario gets on the Wi-Fi people will buy more and more mario type games and 
 they will overpower the DS and everyone will probably forget about the better games like Final 
 Fantasty III when it comes out or Metroid Prime Hunters (great game!) Well that's just my thoughts/review 
 about this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jivekibbles
Rating: 8.3
Date: May 30, 2006 10:04 am PT
Review:  this game is just like what people say about it, its long and fun.
  it's a pretty good game if you like the mario series, which everyone should love. it has multiple 
 characters to play as Mario Luigi Yoshi and Wario. they all have their abilities to be used in 
 different situations giving some replayability.
  the sound aint what i love from mario games. especially the castle music, ugh what a bore.
  the 
 graphics are nice and colourful for the ds but they are dodgy at times but i still like em.
  the storyline is to rescue everyone from paintings and to defeat bowser like normal but you will 
 need everyone to do so.
  the mini-games are the best thing about it definatly. you will have hours of fun with these short 
 lil fun boxes and there is a total of 36 games!
  
  do you know what this game needed, wi-fi. if it had wi-fi this game would have got at least a 9.2 
 but it dosent so... well thats life.
  so in overall terms this game is a nice fun platform ish type game with mediocre music and lots 
 of replay value. i definatly recommend it for the min-games. 
  overall: i love it a lot 
::::::

::::::
UserName: drummer131
Rating: 7.8
Date: May 30, 2006 7:15 am PT
Review:  When Super Mario 64 came out back in 1996, it changed the way I looked at video games. I have many 
 fond memories of going through the various worlds and all the tough spots. In the time since then, 
 I've been hoping for a portable remake... and here it is.
  
  SM64DS is a solid game, overall. The graphics are great, the music is great, the original game 
 is pretty much intact. They've added some new stars to collect. There's a whole bunch of minigames 
 to choose from, and they range from incredibly lame to incredibly addictive. 
  
  Unfortunately, there are a couple of things that I can't rave about. First off, there's the controls. 
 YUCK! Without the joystick, the controls feel very strange and imprecise. There's even a dash button 
 because you can't use the directional buttons to run! Most times, you know what you want to do 
 and the controls often react awkwardly enough that you might end up doing something else. I've 
 been playing the game for a while now, and I still can't get used to the controls. They essentially 
 hamper my nostalgic gaming experience. The second thing I don't like is the inclusion of Wario 
 as a playable character. He is the anti-Mario! Why the heck is he in a Mario game? No matter how 
 much I try to get over it, I just can't. Wario should not be in this game. It just feels wrong.
 
  
  In the end, if you can get used to awkward controls, you'll probably love this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: xRaChEt84x
Rating: 9.6
Date: May 29, 2006 3:38 am PT
Review:  After the swarm of reviews this DS giant has received, I'll keep it to a minimum and touch on the 
 new features incorporated into the game. First off, the mini-games are the definite reason Mario 
 64 DS has caused such an outburst of satisfaction; well that, and the superb game play the original 
 already had. Together, the mini games and main story mode work perfectly together, each providing 
 relief from each other when either one gets boring. Finding rabbits can be more rewarding than 
 finding stars most of the time, considering every rabbit you find adds more replay value onto the 
 game. As for the graphics, they're a nice, subtle update that can easily be over looked if you 
 haven't played the original in awhile. The sound may be a slight bit worse than the original, but 
 since there's no telling what the DS's sound can handle yet, the sound is mostly as amazing as 
 it was back in the day. Though the touch screen definitely doesn't handle as well as just moving 
 a joy-stick, you'll practically be navigating the 4 main Mario characters like a pro in a few hours.
 
  
  If you weren't born in time to experience the awe that came from the introduction of the new generation 
 of consoles, then you need to ask your mom to buy this for you now! Otherwise, it's just a no brainer 
 for everyone who experienced the game its first round through our hearts.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: klusps
Rating: 8.4
Date: Sep 30, 2006 9:13 pm PT
Review:  Form from the old Nintendo 64 game Super Mario 64, Nintendo has remade this fun planformer game 
 and fitted in the DS. Added with some added features inside, this game would be an exellent chose 
 for the DS. With added features in this game, this game can be fun, and addictive. There is some 
 really addictive mini games in this game that involve the styles, and some you can unlock. If you 
 haven't play the Nintendo 64 version then this will give you the same experience. You start out 
 with Yoshi because Mario, Luigi, and Wario got lost in the Princess Peach Peach castle. You can 
 eventually unlock all the character, but if you want to use Mario in the beggining then you're 
 out of luck. Each character has his own special ability. Mario has the same old kick, punch attacks. 
 Yoshi sadly can't hit, but can eat people and turn them into eggs that you can throw on enemies. 
 Luigi can turn invisible and walk on water. Wario can turn into metal. The graphic in this game 
 is awsome, better then its predecesor. The sound is great. The control on the character is kind 
 of hard, you can also you the touch screen to move your character, but I prefer the control pad. 
 If you love the old Super Mario 64 game then you'll love this one. For people who haven't played 
 the old version, then this game still will be enjoyable for you. If you want a planformer with 
 a plummer with a mustache, then this game is for you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hipppvix
Rating: 9.2
Date: May 27, 2006 5:11 am PT
Review:  Super Mario 64 DS is a great upgrade to the one on the 64. Origionaly it was a fun game, but now 
 you can take it anywhere with you. Plus now you can be Mario, Yoshi, Luigi, or Wario. And each 
 one has a special purpouse for the game and it's kind of funner that way. But, it is still all 
 the same levels, and the same objective, and most of the same other stuff besides the characters. 
 And now the graphics are way better even though the story line is a little different. So now it's 
 a fun game made even funner, have fun. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: follis12
Rating: 6.7
Date: May 26, 2006 10:21 pm PT
Review:  This game was one of the first I purchased for my DS, which I've only had for a couple of months. 
 I never played the N 64 version, and have no frame of reference, but I find this game lacking the 
 appeal of other Mario titles.
  
  Most notably, the game play mechanics are a little awkward. Usually, Mario games are quite intuitive, 
 but I had a hard time getting into the controls and subsequently the game.
  
  I think I'll enjoy the game, but now I have New Super Mario Bros, which is exactly what I expect 
 from Mario. I've read the other reviews and will give this game another chance, but I just didn't 
 find it that engaging.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: yummy2000
Rating: 8.6
Date: May 26, 2006 7:01 pm PT
Review:  Super Mario 64 DS is a long game i think and has lots of missions/levels on the game and thats 
 why i love it so much. and i like about the game how you have to get the key for each door to unlock 
 the character thats cool too. and i like with each character they all have abilitys and cool jumps 
 like those three jumps and adds up to be a super jump. i realy like this game and i think its so 
 cool!!! I love this game and think they should make the same game on like PS2. I LOVE THIS GAME!!! 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 105506
Rating: 9.2
Date: May 26, 2006 6:10 pm PT
Review:  This game is defenently a pick up if you liked the N64 version.
  I mean the graphics are very nice and the environments are very nice.
  All the worlds look clean 
 and this game is a very nice remake.
  Not all remakes are good just to say that, but this one is one of the best.
  This game has spend 
 alot of time on my ds but NSMB took its place instead.
  If you dont have this game you better pick it up as its one of those "must have"
  The sounds 
 on this game are very nice but somehow something is missing around.
  I found myself beating this game 3 times and it never got boring. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: darkenedspirit
Rating: 9.6
Date: Mar 3, 2007 7:36 am PT
Review:  Super mario 64 ds was a complete masterpiece better than any other mario game you will play on 
 reasons for that being is that is that the way they managed to get the graphics like that onto 
 the ds is truly incredible some of the graphics from the ds looks better than the original version 
 itself. The idea of the game is that their's 4 characters in it and you use yoshi at the start 
 and he is the main character where you have to go in all sort of places where you find their picture 
 and jump in to it and the levels were very well made challenging and clever plus you can get two 
 different stars on each one 1) the red coins 2) hidden star which their quite hard to find and 
 they managed to add an extra star on each level which is 15 more seeing how their's 15 courses 
 and an extra 15 secret stars than the original which was 15 so the ds version is 30 castle secret 
 stars to complete all 150 stars on that game is very frustrating and complicated. Who ever completed 
 it out there are smart and very good at finding because it takes alot of effort and alot of concentration. 
 The best character to use in the game is luigi because he has the same power as mario he can run 
 faster he can jump much higher and when you do a backflip you can jump off really high places and 
 spin in the air to the part of the course you want. If you compare bowser from the n64 version 
 to the ds version you can see that bowser looks much better in the ds version than the n64 one. 
 The reason why i picked this game is because that there's alot better qualities than the old one 
 for example the graphics, bowser, different characters and extra complicated 30 stars. Also one 
 thing that i forgot to mention is that with each character their bunnies that change places with 
 different characters and you have to find each one of them to get a new mini game, same with the 
 other characters, some of them are really hard to find that will last you ages. The mini games 
 are endless fun you won't get tired at least one mini game there's 36 minigames all together and 
 there's 9 different bunnies to catch .
  
  For each four characters and each character has it's own ability mario goes into like a balloon 
 type so he can float in the air for a certain amount of time and he doesn't move very fast in the 
 air but still really good though he can also fly as usual with the wing cap. Luigi can turn invisible 
 which is always helpful for some stars in the game and he can also run across water for about 1-2 
 seconds very short but clever and fun. Wario has the strongest power in the game and can hit really 
 large blocks that no other character can his ability is that he can turn into metal so when he 
 jumps in the water he can go straight deep into the water so it's alot quicker than swimming down, 
 also helpful for getting stars as well and also the final character is yoshi his two abilities 
 are that when you first jump in to a picture by using the touch screen by pressing one of the caps 
 you can change to any character you want which is 3 but with anybody else you can only change in 
 to 2 because yoshi doesn't have a cap and his second ability is that if you stick his tongue out 
 to the fire he can swallow it and you can breathe fire at your enemies and you have to use it alot 
 in the course cool cool mountain. So this game will keep you thinking if it's better than the original 
 and you will be looking for all those 150 stars for along time unless if you get lucky but i doubt 
 that will happen. So i suggest you get this game for the ds if you've got the ds and haven't gotten 
 this game i feel sorry for you because you don't know what you're missing get the game seriously 
 you won't regret buying it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: technewsgr
Rating: 8.1
Date: May 22, 2006 2:52 pm PT
Review:  The idea of 3D movement is appealing, but personally I got tired with it very soon. You see I prefer 
 platform games (In that case you can say: "So, why, did you buy it?") as Marioland 1 or Marioland 
 2. I can say that I still prefer playing those 2 old games in my Old-school original Gameboy than 
 the "Super Mario 64". Don't get me wrong... I guess I am an old fashion guy :)
  
  The game is good. It has funny moments. And you enjoy playing with it...
  but not as much as 
 playing with the "All time favorite Mario platform style game"...
  
  All I want to say is: I can't wait for "New Super Mario" to be releashed :-)
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Super-Mario-Fan
Rating: 9.2
Date: May 20, 2006 5:13 pm PT
Review:  Super Mario 64 DS is the DS remake of the N64 title, Super Mario 64. Even so, much of the gameplay 
 has changed. You now also control Luigi, Yoshi, and even Wario. Each character has strengths and 
 weaknesses (Luigi can jump higher, Wario is stronger) . The graphics and sounds hold up from the 
 original, and the replay value is even better. Instead of 120 stars, there are up to 150 stars 
 to collect. There are also a bunch of minigames available that take advantage of the DS's touch 
 screen. There really isn't much to talk about. If you don't have the original N64 version, then 
 this is definitely worth a purchase. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cfaus
Rating: 9.4
Date: May 20, 2006 7:26 am PT
Review:  I have played Mario 64 for the N64, and I instantly loved it. On, Mario 64 Ds, I have only gotten 
 about 18 stars so far, and they are fun to get. The minigames, there are at least forty - fifty 
 of them. They are mostly pretty fun and add some value and extras on to the already good adventure 
 mode. All 120 stars from the Nintendo 64 game are in, along with 30 newly-added stars, making this 
 game a very long single player. I have not of yet played multiplayer, but I did see someone play 
 it and it looked fun. My only complaint is a small one, which I have learned to live with, because 
 the Ds uses just a D-pad, it offers slightly less control over your character, but disregard this 
 because I do not believe it detracts from the overall gameplay experience. Buy this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: the_13est_
Rating: 8.5
Date: Oct 19, 2007 11:57 am PT
Review:  Mario, Luigi, Yoshi, Koopa, Peach, Wario and many more random critters from the world of the italian 
 plumber have all created spin-offs and their own games which in their right have been rather good. 
 But this takes the crown. No Nintendo game has come close to reaching the pure Nintendo that Mario 
 N64 has come too, but this takes the biscuit. With beautiful scenery, a magical storyline of love, 
 adventure and terror, it's a goody bag in one small cartridge. The aim of the game in general is 
 to save the starlet herself Princess Peach from the evil claws of Arch Nemesis Bowser. Advancing 
 through the diffeent levels and helping small bombs and collecting glittering stars don't get tiresome 
 for one second. The levels range in difficulty, some being short and sweet, others being rather 
 difficult. The DS puts N64 to shame with the new features added, including the touch screen eing 
 in use and of course the WiFi. Although the WiFi is a little limited it's still a step on from 
 the original N64 Mario. All characters feature in the DS version that appeared in the N64 and the 
 game really fails to dissapoint. Although the game is an absolute gem, the controls are a touch 
 shabby and the touch screen could be used in many more places than it is in use for. The WiFi is 
 handy considering it only needs the one cartridge but would be so much more enjoyable if more things 
 were to be able to be done. All in all, this game is in it's own league compared to other DS games, 
 this joins Wario in the greatest DS games to date. Well, until the next Mario comes out....... 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: thx4datips
Rating: 8.8
Date: May 19, 2006 12:17 am PT
Review:  Ok, so... You need a great 3D adventure, or you need a game that is nostalgic, but great at the 
 same time-this is the game for you. You begin off as Mario, and unlock more of the charecters and 
 play through many worlds, where it is possible to get 150 stars (which can take quite a long time) . 
 The environment and music is great, and the controls arent as great as they couldve been, but good 
 at a first attempt for the Handheld. At first I was bummed out about the poor amount of good quality 
 launch titles, and this game got me through a portion of that. I would recommend this game if you 
 have the better games such as MP: H, MK DS, AC: WW, JSS, BleachDS, a select few, but otherwise, 
 id go for this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: yanks26wsw
Rating: 8.8
Date: May 18, 2006 7:03 pm PT
Review:  Super Mario 64 was an amazing game for N64. Super Mario 64 DS is a great follow up to that game 
 and adds the perfect amount of extras to add to the game, but not veer away from the original. 
 Some of the new features of Super Mario 64 DS are you can play as Yoshi, Mario, Lugi, and Wario. 
 The all have their strengths and weaknesses. Yoshi, who you start the game with is speedy and can 
 jump far, but has no power. Mario is once again and all around player with some power, some speed 
 and a decent jump. Lugi has a pretty good jump ok speed and ok power. Wario is very slow, can not 
 jump, but has a lot for power. Other new features include mini games that analyze the touch screen, 
 and thirty more stars then the original with one hundred fifty. Now on to the game itself. The 
 Game Play is quite fun and challenging in some areas and will keep you into the game for quite 
 a while. you will be facing mostly the same bosses and challenges as the first game, but of course 
 there are a few new, well designed levels, bosses, and challenges that add a lot to the game play. 
 Now on t the graphics. As I just mentioned, the level design is great. But the best thing about 
 the graphics is the complete 3-D world. The graphics in this game look slightly better the N64 
 version. This adds of beauty to the game which makes your gaming experience much better. the sound 
 is exactly the same as the N64 version, which there was no problem with, though they should have 
 added some new things, but the voices of Wario, Lugi and Yoshi are great.. Yet another thing that 
 adds to the all around greatness of the game. The value is extremely high, even if you played the 
 original and you blow through this game easily there is still thirty more stars to find and always 
 trying to get a high score in the mini games. This game is very fun, but there are frustrating 
 parts that completely take away your fun trying to complete it, other then that it is a very fun 
 game. I recommend this defiantly to those who never played the original and huge fans of the original. 
 If you loved the original I would surly look into it and if you didn't like the original this game 
 is not going to be any different. Super Mario 64 DS is an great game that most DS owners should 
 have at least played. Though it is not has good as the original, it adds new features and a new 
 perspective tot he game.
  
  Cover Artwork~B-~Four characters you will play as in the game, cool yet lacking something, just 
 do not know what.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: interpolred
Rating: 9.6
Date: Nov 27, 2006 7:34 pm PT
Review:  GOOD: A great remake of the original. Better graphics than the original. New characters to play 
 as. More Stars to find. A bunch of fun mini-games to unlock and play.
  
  BAD: The control isn't as precise as the original. Multiplayer isn't all that great.
  
  SUPER 
 MARIO 64 was one of the greatest titles for the Nintendo 64. It had impressive graphics, nice music 
 and sounds, precise controls over Mario, and it was a big game to boot. Now, for the Nintendo DS, 
 we have SUPER MARIO 64 DS. It is basically a remake of the original game except it has one tiny 
 flaw and tons of great new features.
  
  Might as well get that one flaw out of the way. While the control in MARIO 64 was very accurate 
 and tight, it falls a bit short in this game. Whether you use the stylus, the D-pad, or the thumb 
 pad, the controls in this game can be slightly difficult at times. It's not as easy to make sharp 
 turns in this game as it was in the original, and you will sometimes fall off of ledges too many 
 times to the point where you might start getting a bit frustrated. Regardless of this, however, 
 probably the best control to use is with the thumb pad, as it mocks the analog control stick of 
 the Nintendo 64 the best out of the three options, and gives you more control over Mario, Luigi, 
 Yoshi, and Wario.
  
  Seeing as how there are now multiple characters to choose from, it would only be common sense to 
 include a multiplayer mode. This mode is great for showing off the DS's wireless download multiplayer 
 feature. But that's about it. The game mode itself isn't too fun. You basically compete against 
 other players and try to capture the most Stars within the time limit. There are a few different 
 levels to play in, but that doesn't add much replay value to the multiplayer. It's an ok feature, 
 but not as in-depth as it could have been. Still, it adds to the overall content of the game.
 
  
  Now, on to how great this game really is! MARIO 64 DS is, just like the original, an outstanding 
 game. The graphics have been given a slight makeover. The character models are all really good 
 and the environments have all been sharpened. This is a very colorful and beautiful game. The vast 
 worlds all look amazing. The music hasn't changed. You will hear the well-orchestrated melodic 
 tunes that were in the first game. And you will also hear some interesting sound effects. Mario 
 has the same limited speech he had in the 64 game, but now, you will also be entitled to hear Luigi's 
 yelps, Yoshi's charming sounds, and Wario's rants and grunts.
  
  MARIO 64 was a long game. There were 120 Stars scattered all over the worlds. The DS remake is 
 a long game too, this time upping the number of Stars to 150. You'll be looking for these Stars 
 inside as well as outside the Castle and in all of the painting worlds. Some Stars can only be 
 obtained by a certain character, so you will definitely have some tagging in to do. Each character 
 has a special quality that the other's don't have, so you'll be able to do things with each of 
 them that are essential to your success in the game.
  
  One of the things this game brings to the table is a handful of fun, entertaining stylus-based 
 mini-games. You'll find color-coded rabbits in the main adventure that you will have to capture 
 with the character of the same color. Each of these rabbits unlocks a new mini-game. Most of these 
 are extremely fun. Some are harder versions of the earlier mini-games. These mini-games will probably 
 provide the most replay value to the game, as they are highly addictive and really fun to play. 
 You'll be dragging red and black Bob-ombs to their respective-colored mat; you'll provide a falling 
 Mario with trampolines (drawn with the stylus) ; you'll shoot Bob-bombs out of the sky with a slingshot; 
 and for those love-struck individuals, you can even play a little game of loves me/loves me not. 
 There is a good amount of great quality mini-games and you'll want to keep playing just to beat 
 your best score.
  
  SUPER MARIO 64 DS is a great remake and a great title for the DS in its own right. Fans of the 
 64 game will definitely enjoy the new features and characters included in this game, but might 
 miss the great control of the original. It will be satisfying, however, to have the ability to 
 take this gem of a game with you wherever you go. And newcomers will enjoy this game for what it 
 is, one of the greatest Mario games ever created. There's a lot more to do in this game than there 
 was in the original, and you are bound to have fun with this game for a very long time. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Gamer123
Rating: 10
Date: May 17, 2006 11:29 am PT
Review:  This is a remake from the game Super Mario 64 for the Nintendo DS with improved graphics and gameplay. 
 There are four playable characters which include Mario, Luigi, Wario and Yoshi who all have unique 
 abilities, Mario can Fly, Float, Jump off walls and many other abilities. Luigi can turn Invisible, 
 Run in the air, Run on water and spin in the air and Wario and Yoshi have other abilities as well. 
 This is one of the best DS games other features are 30 more Stars, Multiplayer, Mini Games ect. 
 This is a really good game, this should be one of the games you should get, it's an excellent game 
 which should keep you playing for a long time.
  
  -3 more main characters that include Luigi, Wario and Yoshi who have their own unique abilities 
 which you have to use to collect stars in the main game.
  -30 More stars included in this remake.
  -Multiplayer.
  -Mini Games.
  -Improved Graphics 
 and Gameplay. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Spiora
Rating: 9.1
Date: May 16, 2006 4:31 pm PT
Review:  Where to begin... well besides the Metroid Prime Hunters: First Hunt demo this was the first game 
 I got for my DS. And trust me, it is WORTH IT. Now you can buy this game with the DS, and I recommend 
 this offer highly.
  
  Gameplay is basically the same formula as the original. Go get the stars to unlock other doors 
 and beat the living heck out of Bowser. But this time you start the game as Yoshi and unlock Mario, 
 Luigi, and Wario. Each has their own special power when they get the correct item. Fairly simple. 
 The later levels grow in difficulty. The problem is that controls make them harder than need be. 
 All three control schemes will take some getting used to, which stops me from giving this a 10.
 
  
  Graphics are still a little blocky but an improvement from the original game. Not much to say here, 
 except if you played the original you'll know the difference. For all of you who sadly missed out 
 on Super Mario 64 they'll be an average.
  
  Value is pretty good since you can get this game with a DS.
  
  Now, this game has a Rec Room 
 with minigames. These great minigames are reason enough to buy the game and they have to be unlocked 
 by catching the rabbits. Also, there is a versus mode now where there is a race for stars. Versus 
 isn't enough to keep you occupied forever since it gets old, but minigames are very fun to play 
 in short bursts.
  
  All in all an instant classic for the DS. Buy it. You won't be sorry.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: nikosuavee
Rating: 9
Date: May 15, 2006 5:53 pm PT
Review:  "Its a me, Mario", and its about time. Finally the DS lauched its flagship game. The home for the 
 Nintendo empire. The game that pioneered 3D gaming is back. And from what we can all tell... its 
 a port that performs better than its predecessors. Mario has already been popular since the release 
 of its debut on Nintendo, but now that better, stronger, more capable consoles have become availiable, 
 it only strengthens the Mario franchise.
  
  One of many aspects of the Mario history that keeps it fresh is the amazing, vibrant, and colourful 
 worlds where all the Mario magic happens. The game stays true to the series by delievering an even 
 better eye exploration than ever. All of the characters' animation are executed fluidly and accurately 
 to Mr. Mario and his companions' history. All in all this game is just a simple port of "Mario 
 64" that released in the 64-bit generation. Now the DS can easily port a 64 game quite well, but 
 in this situation it totally supercedes it mothering game. Both games offer a large bit of detail 
 and quality to the action on screen, but the DS is stronger in terms of system hauling so it conveys 
 an even more remarkable gaming experience. Everything from mushroom stomping to triple jumping 
 looks good enough to eat in this spectacular game. Mario DS could be reason enough to go out and 
 test drive the DS for yourself, and the graphics only the topping on the cake kids.
  
  Well you surely cant have a successful Mario game if you dont toss in the lively music and quirky 
 sound effect that are all considered standard equipment for the Mario franchise. And the DS edition 
 of Mario 64 couldn't have been anymore precise in keeping that luxury alive. All of the little 
 pounds, Mario wee's, Yoshi swallows, etc. are still intact for the port. The DS version supports 
 an even better hardware construct, so its a lovely compliment to the game. The music is what many 
 gamers consider the atmospheric setting of the game. The music is here as well, and the suiting 
 couldn't have been better. It sustains you in the world of Mario and reminds you that anything 
 and maybe even everything is possible. The composure of the music is really an equivalent to its 
 amazing texture work. Thumbs up for sound quality.
  
  Now with the DS offering a totally new way to control Mario in his escapaes to triumph over Coopers 
 clutches, ?uestions of gameplay became amidst. Well heres the answer; touch screen controls couldnt 
 have been a better edition to the game. Now the typical D-pad is there for all the traditional 
 gamers, but if you really want to embrace all the DS can do... go and touch it. The touch screen 
 controls give you an excellent amount of character precision for crossing-walking and such. The 
 game pounds massive amounts of content and duplication from the old edition, so if you were expecting 
 somrthing from the old game, you would get it back and then some. This game features actual gameplay 
 from Mario, Luigi, Wario, and Yoshi. All with with strenghts over the next character. So that puts 
 a huge point on the fun-factor on the game.
  
  All in all this is a must for DS owners, and an even stronger necessity for ALL Mario lovers. PLEASE 
 go and pick up the port and experience the way Mario and his friends were meant to be played... on 
 two screens and a stylus!!!!!!!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Big_JoGamer93
Rating: 9.7
Date: May 14, 2006 3:46 pm PT
Review:  This was the first game i got for nintendo ds and it is also my favorite. I also own Mario Kart, 
 Metroid Prime: Hunters, Tony Hawk American Wasteland and others but this is my favourite game. 
 Addictive gameplay, long adventure mode and mini games keep this game from ever getting boring!!!!
 
  The graphics are amazing for a handheld, though not as good as Metriod or Viewtiful Joe they still 
 show what the system is capable of. The gameplay is so good you wish there was more but the addictive 
 mini games keep you coming back. Also the adventure mode is very long and took me for over 2 weeks 
 to beat the game, and thats not even with all 150 stars!! Sound is everything you would expect 
 from an mario game.
  
  Bottom Line: Your collection isn't complete without this game!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: crashbolt
Rating: 9.3
Date: May 12, 2006 9:58 am PT
Review:  This game is really fun. I like it because you can do much more than just collect all 150 stars. 
 You can play mini games, control other characters to just fool around, and much, much more. I like 
 to play 2-player mode. My friend is always Wario, my other friend is usually Mario ( some times 
 Yoshi ) , and obviously I like to use Luigi. My friend ( the Wario one ) loves to dive bomb us. 
 My favorite world though, is Whomp's fortress. I can get all the stars there, including the 100 
 coins one, except one, and that is blast away the wall. I have no idea what wall there talking 
 about. This game is defenetely one of the best in the super Mario bros. series. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: VFG
Rating: 8.8
Date: May 16, 2006 3:41 pm PT
Review:  Mario 64 DS isn't just a port of the original N64 game, it's original and a good game in it's own 
 right. The addition of new characters adds a lot more depth to the game, each has his own talents 
 to collect all the games stars.
  Stars are what you're after in this game, each level has multiple stars that you need to collect 
 to unlock new levels and ultimately save the Princess from the evil Bowser.
  This is the same premises for almost every other Mario game so don't play this looking for any 
 type of engaging storyline. 
  Throughout the game you can also catch rabbits that will give you keys to unlock touch screen minigames, 
 each of the four characters has different types of mini games that offer a change of pace from 
 the regular adventure. 
  You may get frustrated at times as you try to figure out how to reach certain stars you can see 
 but not reach. The best thing to do is just forget it and come back to that level when you've unlocked 
 more characters. 
  I've collected about 115 of the games 150 total stars, and you only require to find 80 to defeat 
 Bowser with Mario. 
  If you have the time this is definitely worth blowing it on. The graphics nearly match up to the 
 N64 and only a few complaints of difficult camera angles at certain times. All in all a good game, 
 not too heavy in replay value though. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Willdyer10
Rating: 8.8
Date: May 6, 2006 12:41 am PT
Review:  Remember when you got your Nintendo 64 at launch with Super Mario 64? The game was so revolutionary, 
 changing the way we play games. I certainly didnt have that chance, as I didnt get a Nintendo 
 64 for a couple of years later. I didnt even pick up the game for some odd reason. I had played 
 it at a friends house, but never actually got too in-depth with it. Now with the Nintendo DS releasing, 
 I had a chance to experience what others had years ago, and in a new way!
  
  Super Mario 64 DS is a port/remake, with lots of new features. The most compelling addition to 
 this version is that you have a chance to play with three other characters instead of Mario. You 
 can be swallowing enemies with Yoshi, jumping onto high cliffs with Luigi, or smashing hard boulders 
 with Wario! Since there are multiple characters, the story differs from the original.
  Princess Peach has sent an invitation saying, Please come to the castle. Ive baked a cake for 
 you. Mario is accompanied by Luigi and Wario to enter the Mushroom Castle. Though, they dont 
 come out of the castle for quite some time, so Yoshi, who was quietly resting on top of the castle, 
 decides to go check on them. Yoshi then discovers that Bowser has stolen the Power Stars guarding 
 the castle and locked Princess Peach into the walls, while the rest of the crew have been captured 
 into paintings! Its up to Yoshi to rescue his team and save Princess Peach from the evil Bowser.
 
  
  The gameplay is quite different from the original Mario 64, as the DS does not have an analog stick. 
 Some may think its not worth playing, but with some practice, youll eventually get use to the 
 d-pad. Luckily there is three different control types, just incase you dont like the d-pad and 
 want to use the stylus or thumb-strap on the touch-screen. I certainly prefer the d-pad. The action 
 buttons work well, though you might watch how youre pressing, the buttons are small and can easily 
 be touched if you have big hands. Other than the flaw of no analog stick, Super Mario 64 DS certainly 
 feels great to control.
  
  Just like in the original, youll be jumping into paintings to get stars from different worlds. 
 There are different kinds of missions in each world to receive your rewarded star. There are bosses 
 included, but theyre easy to beat. One of the most exciting aspects of the game is the extra mini-games 
 included. I would have to say they are the reason youll keep playing this game after youve completed 
 adventure mode. The mini-games use the touch-screen and the dual-screens to its full advantage. 
 Nintendo surely knows how to innovate the way we play games. One example of a mini-game is one 
 of Warios, which has a slingshot on the bottom touch-screen with a boulder that you must touch 
 and release with your stylus to launch onto the top-screen and hit the bob-ombs that are trying 
 to get the flowers on the lower-screen. This mini-game alone will amaze you.
  
  The graphics are quite smoother than the original. Though, it still looks a little blocky. Its 
 not that big of a deal, as this is just a launch title. Im sure the DS has bigger advantages that 
 well see in the near future. Character models look great, so does the environment.
  
  As in every Mario game, the sound is excellent. Not much to say, as its self-explanatory.
  
 
  Overall, this is a great game for a DS owner. Great launch title especially. This game has great 
 replay value, as there are 30 more stars than the original, and the mini-games will keep you busy. 
 If you loved the original for the N64, you should still pick this up, even if you want to play 
 the mini-games alone! If havent played the original, then definitely get this game. Youll be 
 amazed on what you missed out. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Riotai
Rating: 8.7
Date: May 5, 2006 2:59 pm PT
Review:  When it had first appeared on the Nintendo 64 home console, Super Mario 64 was a great hit. As 
 Mario's first 3D game, it had an excellent storyline, great graphics, amazing gameplay, and so 
 on. Years later, Super Mario 64 had improved and came into our hands in the handheld department 
 for the Nintendo Dual-Screen with new additions that add more thrill to the game.
  
  Super Mario 64 DS for the Nintendo DS handheld console is an excellent improvement to one of the 
 best Mario games out there. From the original's simple one-character gameplay came an addition 
 of three other characters. Yoshi, Wario, and Luigi join Mario in a revisit to an old adventure. 
 More Power Stars are obtainable as they have increased for each stage. There is also a mini-game 
 section which requires the stylus pen to use the Nintendo DS's new touchscreen technology.
  
  The story follows the original intention of Mario games. Princess Peach Toadstool of the Mushroom 
 Kingdom invites her favorite plumber, Mario, to the castle. She has baked a cake for him. In the 
 new Super Mario 64, Mario's no longer alone. His younger brother, Luigi, and party crashing friend, 
 Wario, tag along.
  
  You start off as Yoshi, a green dinosaur also known for his petlike behavior and accompaniment 
 to Mario. To his great surprise, the three plumbers, upon entering the castle, have not yet returned. 
 To start things off from scratch, Yoshi must save one of these plumbers who will later save the 
 next.
  
  The Princess had been taken by the Great Koopa King, Bowser Koopa. Together, the four must thrash 
 Bowser and save Princess Peach via the paintings in the castle. These paintings allow one to access 
 another world or border in the Mushroom Kingdom. It is up to Mario and his friends (and brother, 
 of course) to finish Bowser off once again.
  
  Gameplay is quite simple. Super Mario 64 DS is a platform game, so the controls mainly consist 
 of movement and jumping. Often times, it is required to dash as well. You will also obtain temporary 
 powerups such as the ability to turn into a metalic figure of your character, wear hats to change 
 into another character, to fly, and so on. These will benefit you in the gameplay when encountering 
 enemies during the stages.
  
  The concept is simple as well. Each painting leads to a new stage, and in these stages you must 
 fullfill the required task in order to be rewarded with a Power Star. Power Stars are needed to 
 unlock doors to other paintings, access rooms leading to boss battles with Bowser, and more. They 
 are also required to complete this game. The final door will require many, so be on the lookout 
 for any Power Star that will assist you.
  
  The quality of the game matches up to its Nintendo 64 past. The music is kept the same and is a 
 very nice collection to listen to. The graphics have been tweaked with the character models, but 
 still remain very much the same as the Nintendo 64. In my opinion, this is very impressive for 
 the Nintendo DS. The game has been kept to its original intentions and appeals nicely.
  
  Although the Nintendo DS lacks any good use of thumb analog, controlling the character isn't too 
 difficult. Use of a directional pad, however, was quite disappointing. As for other controls, jumping 
 and dashing action buttons fit quite nicely. It is easy to control the character's actions through 
 the default setup of controls in this game.
  
  The camera stays the same as it had before. The option to zoom in and out depending on the view 
 of your choice still remains and is quite useful. Often times, the camera may be frustrating due 
 to certain appearances in which the camera may be required a location that it refuses to stand 
 in, but the frustration is easily done away with.
  
  Super Mario 64 on Nintendo 64 still stays a classic, but if you have not played the original or 
 are looking forward to some new challenges and improvements, I would deffinately suggest Super 
 Mario 64 DS. Mario games never fail at successful looking titles, and I can assure you that Super 
 Mario 64 DS's clean model look, excellent stages, easy gameplay, and high addiction can hook you 
 right in. If you are looking for a great platformer, I would recommend Super Mario 64 DS as a choice. 
 Pick this one up and enjoy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nintendods1441
Rating: 8.6
Date: May 5, 2006 12:35 pm PT
Review:  Super mario 64 is a great game. You have to collect stars to unlock different doors and paintings. 
 Also you can catch rabits and when you catch rabits you get a mini game. The mini games are pretty 
 good. To play them you use the touch screen. Anyway when to get more stars you can go in more different 
 doors. And you get to v browser. In the whole game you have to deafeat browser 3 times. The second 
 time is very hard jsut to get to him same with 3rd. 1 is quite easy. On the 3rd it's pretty differcult 
 to deafeat him. But aventully you will do it. Super mario 64 is one of the good games out on nintendo 
 ds 
::::::

::::::
UserName: StealthBlade100
Rating: 9.6
Date: May 10, 2006 5:00 am PT
Review:  Super Mario 64 DS is a great game but i have beaten it like a lot on the Nintendo 64. Its great 
 that new charachters there for you to play and some new levels and multiplayer but i have beaten 
 this amzing game before. However if you have never played super mario 64 there is some nice news. 
 This game is one of the best for the Nintendo 64. the sound is great the graphics are good for 
 a game of mario and the gameplay has many secrets and levels for you to beat. If you own a nintendo 
 DS and you havent played it on the Nintendo 64 or you would like to revisit the castle or even 
 if you didnt beat it it is a must play. Super Mario 64 Ds really has a great job of transferring 
 the amazing n64 version to the ds 
::::::

::::::
UserName: supermario1991
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 30, 2006 10:12 am PT
Review:  If you like Super Mario 64 you will love this game, this game is just like the old game eccept 
 a handheld version and more stuff in the game has been added.
  First of all their are new characters in the game you can play as, the characters are Luigi, Yoshi, 
 and Wario, in the last game you could only play
  as Mario. Also their are more stars to get and their are mini games you can play but you have to 
 earn them by grabbing rabbits, their are more raddits in this game, also you will have to earn 
 the new characters by rescuing them.
  Also you will not be starting out with mario in this game, you will be starting out as Yoshi, Mario 
 is one of the people you have to rescue.
  Also this game is multiplayer.
  Their are also more rooms in the castle, and more bosses.
  You should really get this game if 
 you have a DS, it has gotten more improved then the last game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: turtle360
Rating: 9.3
Date: Apr 27, 2006 8:12 pm PT
Review:  i don't get why some people don't like this game as much as they should. come on, you start off 
 wiht yoshi. how cool is that. his 3D. how many times do you see yoshi 3D. plus it has better graphics 
 than one for the n64. it took me time to perceied that it did indeed had better graphics. if you 
 notice, the colors on the n64 version are plane flat and on the ds they have changing colors like 
 his red cap. the d-pad on the ds is good enough for someone to enjoy this game.
  Plus there more to it. like the 150 star and mini games and multi player.
  this game is amazing. 
 i don't care what others say.
  i hope everyone enjoys it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tygerlucas
Rating: 4.4
Date: Apr 27, 2006 7:26 pm PT
Review:  ok first guys i beat super mario 64 120 starts for N64 well first it was old ok and it was the 
 first mario in N64 and it still beats game's on the game cube 2nd super mario 64 ds ok what a GREAT 
 NAME they took super mario 64 and did theese stupid things 
  
  1st. went and put three more chariticter making the other people worrying about another people 
 going in to another paiting are to even fight bowser ok 
  2nd. the 120 stars were extreamly hard for me im 18 now and when i got it i was 10 ok i did not 
 beat it till this year but i play other games but i still 64 and still hard ok but there is 150 
 starts in this one i have tje ds and this was my first game i had for the ds at the time and i 
 only got what checking ds.. at this time...... 134 stars ok and i been playing for 1 and a half 
 sence DS came out and i played the game toons (not tons any more if you know what i mean) ok ummmm 
 i og t to 134 stars in 3 months still looking for rest of stars ok
  3rd. ok man if you know what i mean they mest up the game play ok sence mario cant do this luige 
 can wtf is that bs man if i was luige (ms 2nd. fav player.) ok and i was doing a start quest in 
 a paintting i can do a super back spen with him and i cant do that with mario ( my fav played) 
 i do get that stuff i really dont 
  
  well thanx for readin my letter if you did i give this game a 4/10 man iits not as good as people 
 think i really think wiith nintendo skills this was a buyable game but i know nintendo could of 
 done some much better than this i swear i know they can do it better, 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Eggon1
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 23, 2006 10:23 am PT
Review:  Its a good game but i have beaten it like 10 times on the 64. Its great that new charectors are 
 there for you to play and some new levels and multiplayer but i have beaten this great game before. 
 However if you have never played mario 64 there is some good news. This game is one of the best 
 for the 64. there sounds is great the graghics are good for a game of mario and the gameplay has 
 many secrets and levels for you to beat. If you own a nintendo Ds and you havent played it on the 
 64 or you would like to revisit the castle or even if you didnt beat it it is a must play. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Alexander009
Rating: 9.7
Date: Apr 20, 2006 3:30 pm PT
Review:  This is one of the best mario games in history! When I first saw the game game, I knew i was gonna 
 like it. I was right! There is still the same type of gameplay, only you can choose your character. 
 You start out with Yoshi, then, you get Wario, Luigi, and, of course, Mario. 
  
  Graphics: The game's best statistic is it's graphics. They look new and improved! Since they are 
 so good, I would give it a 10
  
  Replay: The only thing I don't like about the game is when you get all 150 stars. There is barely 
 anything more to do, except play mini-games. I would give the replay a 7
  
  Overall, the game is good, and lasts a while. Oh, and by the way, Luigi was NOT in the original 
 version of this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SHUTupNrocK8
Rating: 9.7
Date: Apr 17, 2006 10:14 am PT
Review:  If you are a Nintendo Mario game lover like me, this game is definitely an instant classic! From 
 the Nintendo 64 then right into you hand with the DS, this game is amazing. Every every good and 
 classic Nintendo 64 graphics ... along with now Wario, Luigi, and Yoshi to play with. Each of these 
 characters have all different powers ... Wario: Turns to steel, Mario: Inflates and can float, 
 Luigi: Becomes invisible to walk through walls, Yoshi: Can eat enemies and spit them out as eggs. 
 The sound in this game is still orinigal and still great. This game is amazing from when I played 
 it 8 or some years ago to now. Mario 64 DS is a well-put-together game! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: meweus
Rating: 8.5
Date: Apr 16, 2006 1:31 pm PT
Review:  this game is not bad. fun min games, good grafics.
  The problem is that i fell i played it before. it didnt feel like that on the 64. also we need 
 some voice acting here too. Also it feels boring. It feels like i played this game 50 times.
  
  but everything else is not bad.
  
  first the controlls sre nice, sound needs more. multiplayer 
 sucks. but this game is realy fun. i felt like i meet my 6 year old self again. its not a bad game 
 at all its realy fun. 
  
  Here is something i loved the ability to change into other players. want to be wario go ahead. all 
 you need to do is unlock him.
  
  another issue this game is too hard for little kids. my sister wants to play this game but its 
 too hard for her.
  
  Just rent this game then buy if you like it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: LittleDuck
Rating: 7.6
Date: Apr 15, 2006 2:46 am PT
Review:  Mario 64 was one of the release titles for the N64 (posibly the greatest nintendo console of all 
 time save for the Game boy) . It was awesome and I should know, I have it. It was the first game 
 I played on the 64 and what has so far kept me on the nintendo train. So what's with this cheap 
 knock off?
  
  I love the old mario to be honest, there was only one character who had all the powerups to his 
 fat pizza riddled self. But this is truly quite a let down in comparison. First off the levels 
 are much easier with the cap feature and have lost that bit of challenge which I liked. Second 
 the graphics to me seem worse, even though they are meant to be improved and third, there are only 
 4 multi missions which have no changable rules and last one minute. Whats up with that.
  
  O. k. it's not amazingly bad, but I won't be expecting this to be released again, only the original. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bigatwo
Rating: 9.2
Date: Apr 13, 2006 4:25 pm PT
Review:  Here is SM64 for the DS. Now when this game first came out for the n64 it was an instant classic. It 
 was one of the first games to sport a new 3D. Times have changed. This game relives all my classic 
 moments like throwing king bomb-omb off the top. This game sports 50 more new stars. But the graphics 
 are linda outdated. Anyway this is a good game for gamers that want to kick back and lookat what 
 video games have come from. This is one of the best games for the DS. It also sports a new multiplayer 
 mode, were up to 3 more people join in and hunt stars with you. In the end if you have a DS and want 
 to get back to the old days then buy this game ifnot dont buy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jmm0070
Rating: 9.8
Date: Apr 13, 2006 4:12 pm PT
Review:  mariro 64 DS, as it name shows, is a nintendo 64 game for the DS. This game has always been grat, 
 many people played it non-stop and loved it, almost all owners of a N64 got it, but the N64 went 
 obsolete and this game too. But after the GC's generation, the DS was created, and with a promised 
 title: super Mario 64x4. This game was then released but with another name (mentioned above) , and 
 it was Great! Now the game had 150 stars to collect, 4 characters to use, and complete new courses. 
 One of the best things was the all-new multiplayer and the new conrols and abilities, what made 
 the game harder because you have to change the character to win stars that you can only get with 
 their special abillities. Large and huge-mapped game, spectacular. If you loved the SM64, buy the 
 SM64 DS. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: andrewkozis
Rating: 8.9
Date: Apr 13, 2006 4:03 am PT
Review:  This game is FANTASTIC. As i got it for 10 i thought it was gonna be one of those crappy demo 
 sort of games, so when i brought it with my ds and mario kart for christmas i never played it for 
 at least 2 months! But when i did i realised what an idiot i was. 
  
  The gameplay is VERY good. Collecting stars , sounds boring but extremely fun. And also very long 
 lasting.
  
  The graphics are the BEST part of the game by far. I was stunned when i turned on my ds and saw 
 these graphics. Because i never new anything about the game before i played it , i thought it was 
 gonna b one of those 2d games where all you can do is jump.
  
  Theres nothing much to the sound but there is alot of detail put into it so i gave it an 8. Also 
 the music is fun and happy, makes you want to carry on when your mum calles you for dinner.
  
  You can pick the game up for quite cheap now , definatly worth buying . I would reccomend this 
 game to anyone who has'nt played it yet. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gunnybunny35
Rating: 8.6
Date: Apr 11, 2006 3:49 pm PT
Review:  this game rocks. it brings back all of the things from the original game, and then some. i especially 
 like playing as luigi, cause he rocks, he better than all of the characters in the game. possibly 
 the best part about this game is the graphics. they are as good as the original, and i would know 
 because i owned the original, before my n64 broke. (R. I. P, my lime green friend) . that was the 
 biggest factor in me buying this game, i wanted to play that game so bad that i would kill to have 
 it. and then they made it for the ds and i was all like yay cause they remade that game with more 
 stuff to do!!!!!!!!!!! jsut buy it cause it be rocking. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: liljakey_06
Rating: 9.8
Date: Apr 11, 2006 3:35 pm PT
Review:  this game on nintendo 64 was excellent and now they have put iy on handheld. yay. the graphics 
 on the ds are nearly the exact same as the graphics of the nintendo 64, which is good because the 
 graphics were good on nintendo 64 and i think the graphics on ds is better. however it is harder 
 to see the graphics because the screen is smaller. the controls are really easy to get used to 
 and you will be kicking bowsers butt in no time. there are minigames to unlock too which use the 
 touch screen well and there fun to play. as you progress through the game you can unlock different 
 characters like luigi, wario and yoshi. 
  final verdict:
  this game is a great game to get for your ds and uses the ds well too. so this game is a must buy.
 
  go and get it now!!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: newmanmaster
Rating: 8.8
Date: Apr 10, 2006 3:33 pm PT
Review:  Super Mario 64 for the ds is a great game no matter how you look at it. Its a fantastic replica 
 of the original super Mario 64. The problem with the super Mario 64 was I all ways wanted to play 
 it when I wasnt home but now thats not a problem.
  The graphics are amazing considering its only a ds and the graphics are just about the same as 
 the 64 graphics. And to make it better there are many mini games to play as well as more stars 
 to gather to beat the game while you get to play as Mario , Luigi , Wario , and Yoshi. All of the 
 original feelings of the game is still there. While the controlling feels a bit loose it still 
 reacts quite responsively. 
  The sounds are pretty much all the same as well. It seems to be that there all good things to say 
 about this game except for the loose like controlling other then that small hump to get over everything 
 else about this game makes it a must have for the ds.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: sergioalb64
Rating: 8.3
Date: Apr 8, 2006 10:32 pm PT
Review:  Wow, this game takes me back; I used to play this game for hours non-stop, sometimes up to seven!
 
  Same thing happened with the DS version. This game is more than a port from the original Nintendo 
 64 masterpiece Super Mario 64. The DS version includes many extras worth checking out.
  For starters, there are three more playable characters; Yoshi, Luigi, and Wario, each with their 
 own different abilities. There are more stars and levels, and some incredibly addictive and fun 
 mini-games. Everything else is pretty much as it was 10 years ago [from this year, 2006] . The mini-games 
 really shine though, enough that Nintendo decided to include them in the upcoming New Super Mario 
 Bros. again. 
  If you played the original or not, it doesn't really matter; Super Mario 64 DS is worthy of a purchase 
 by every Nintendo DS owner. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: fishdalf
Rating: 8
Date: Apr 7, 2006 11:34 am PT
Review:  Mario 64 is undoubtedly one of the greatest games of all time; you would find few people who would 
 argue. Back in 1996 when the original game was released it took the gaming world by storm, just 
 like the original Mario games did; it completely changed the way we played platformers. Everyone 
 Ive met who played Mario 64 still remembers where they were when they first played it, who they 
 were with when they beat Bowser for the first time and how they felt when they collected every 
 star and blasted themselves onto the castle top. Now you can relive all those memories once again 
 anywhere you please with the release of Mario 64 DS, the pixel powered portable with its favourite 
 catchphrase of touch me. While this game doesnt take advantage of the DSs touch screen whole-heartedly 
 it does add bits and pieces to keep things fresh. 
  
  The game gives you various control options and with a little test of each you will find the setup 
 that best suits your gaming style. You can choose the default option with the d-pad and the face 
 buttons at your disposal or opt for the less conventional touch screen methods. Each one plays 
 completely different but unfortunately none of these will ever compare to the original analogue 
 stick. You just never feel entirely in control, theres always that niggling doubt that you could 
 fall off that ledge and go plummeting to your doom all because the controls let you down. The camera 
 system isnt the best either, you will constantly find yourself adjusting it because the game feels 
 like showing you the wall rather than the action. 
  
  This game is essentially Mario 64, thats true. However there are small tweaks that do just enough 
 to keep things fresh and shouldnt leave the gamer feeling like theyre playing the exact same 
 game all over again. Perhaps the biggest changes are the additions of the new playable characters. 
 No longer are you limited to Mario, you also have the option of playing as Luigi, Wario and Yoshi. 
 Each equipped with their own unique move sets and abilities that to a certain extent change the 
 way you play through the game. Mario has his trademark triple-jump; Luigi is faster and has higher 
 standard jumps. Wario is a lot more powerful than the others and can smash through larger objects 
 with minimum effort and lastly Yoshi who has the ability to consume his foes and further use them 
 as missiles. 
  
  Each character also has their own special abilities that can be triggered through power blocks; 
 these replace the classic switch boxes you may have been used to. Mario will inflate to the size 
 of a balloon and begin floating upwards; Luigi becomes invisible and gains the ability to walk 
 through certain walls for short periods of time. Wario will transform into a metal counterpart 
 reminiscent of Metal Mario from the original game, granting him super strength and the option of 
 walking under water. Yoshi will gain the ability to breathe fire which will not only help take 
 down a multitude of enemies but also grant him the option of melting blocks of ice that stand in 
 your way or hold a precious secret vital to your quest. As you can imagine these unique powers 
 create many possibilities in terms of how you approach certain levels and how you obtain previously 
 inaccessible secrets. 
  
  You actually begin your adventure with the loveable Yoshi this time around, again I think it more 
 about the developers mixing things up for the gamer and making it a slightly different gaming 
 experience. The other 3 characters are trapped behind locked doors and as you play through you 
 will stumble across hidden keys vital to unlocking those characters and doing missions that were 
 previously impossible. Some of you may be curious as to who or what is now on the castle top now 
 that Yoshi is down on the ground and taking part in the adventure, well you will have to buy the 
 game and find out for yourself 
  
  Some of the other new additions include secret areas; while these dont come close to what the 
 game already had in place they do make for welcome additions to what is already a big game. They 
 have also threw in a compendium of simplistic mini-games for you to get your touch on with, while 
 these wont really challenge you some of them can be rather fun. You will start off with a handful 
 and as you progress you will begin to notice rabbits popping up all over the place, every time 
 you catch one of those little critters you unlock a new mini-game. There are also a few special 
 green rabbits floating around; although these are much tougher to get your hands on given the fact 
 the rewards are much greater. The game also includes a somewhat limited multiplayer mode, ok Ill 
 be honest its completely half-assed. If you have a few friends you can wirelessly link all of 
 your DS systems and play an exclusive mini-game through the one cartridge. This will pit you against 
 each other in a frantic rush to collect as many stars as you can, the key is to steal your opponents 
 stars and keep them until the time runs out. It doesnt really have much depth and should see you 
 giving up after about an hour or so. 
  
  The graphics havent been enhanced to any great extent but the game does look considerably better 
 on the high quality DS screen. There have been enhancements to the main characters, theres a huge 
 difference between the Mario featured here and the one you knew way back when. They have also eradicated 
 many of the rough edges the original possessed but in all honesty they could have done a much better 
 job here, it still holds up fairly well though and runs smoothly. The soundtrack is still amazing 
 as it ever was; the game is littered with classic tunes that would make any Nintendo fans ears 
 bleed. Most of the speech and sound effects are still relatively the same unfortunately; perhaps 
 they could have made a little more effort in this department. 
  
  No this game hasnt made radical changes from the original but lets not forget just how good the 
 original was. Personally I believe Nintendo do just enough to keep things fresh and most importantly 
 keep the fans happy. A worthy purchase for any owner of a DS, if youre looking for the game that 
 changed your childhood or the game that changed the platform genre for all time: with the added 
 portability factor then this is most definitely the game for you. 
  
  Gameplay - Still the same great gameplay you all remember but with some new elements to keep things 
 interesting. 
  
  Graphics - Relatively the same as it always was, some edges have been smoothed and the character 
 models look hugely better. 
  
  Sound - Great Nintendo tunes that will see any fans sliding their volumes to the max. 
  
  Value 
 - Big adventure with a big heart, some mini-games for light-hearted entertainment and a multiplayer 
 mode that is pretty poor. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ze1daplayer
Rating: 9.4
Date: Apr 5, 2006 12:24 pm PT
Review:  This game never got tirering with triing to get all the stars. I thout it was a little too easy 
 fighting Bowser but getting to him was really hard. The stars were fun to collect and when I couldnt 
 get the one in the level, I had othe options like: Get 100 coins, or get all 8 red coins, or just 
 do the other star missions. There are I think 7 stars in each painting to jump in. I heard in the 
 nintendo64 version there were only 120 stars in the whole game and you only play as Mario. This 
 one they added another 30 stars, (150 total) , and you play as Yoshi, Luigi, and Wario, (besides 
 Mario) . Loved playing- 
::::::

::::::
UserName: chazasul
Rating: 8.8
Date: Apr 4, 2006 6:15 pm PT
Review:  After completing Super Mario 64 years after its release, I knew it was only a matter of time before 
 it was remade. But did they mess it up? The answer is a short one: Most definetly not.
  
  Those who have played the original Super Mario 64 will feel right at home here, But will still 
 find enough extras to come back to it, The Mini Games that use the touch screen to its full potential, 
 An extra 30 stars and the addition of Yoshi, Luigi and Wario as playable characters with thier 
 own special characterestics are just a few reasons why this classic deserves to be revisited.
 
  
  Graphically, The DS version is a LOT better, Although I didnt notice this until watching one of 
 the gamespot videos where it compares the 2 side by side.
  
  Unfortuneatly, Multiplayer is a huge letdown, And as one of the DS's prime launch titles it really 
 lets itself down at this point as it is short lived and just generally boring.
  
  This game is long, Even longer than the original. But if you've done most of it before back on 
 the N64 then you will breeze through the game.
  
  The controls arent quite the same as they used to be, The D-pad just doesnt feel right and you 
 cant get the level of accuracy that is required for some of the devilishly tricky platform jumps. 
 The Thumb strap and Touch screen control method tried to compensate for this but does it very poorly 
 as it just feels to awkward.
  
  So if you missed out on the N64 classic then your in for an absolute treat, And if you did play 
 it then this is still well worth checking out.
  
  
  + 150 stars (Missions)
  + Fantastic 
 Mini games
  + The Fantastic parts all still intact
  
  
  - Dissappointing Multiplayer
  - Controls 
 need improving
  - Reward for completing the game 100% is pathetic
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: justiceboy13
Rating: 8.5
Date: Apr 4, 2006 4:54 pm PT
Review:  Everyone's favorite italian stereotype is back for some dual screened actoin! This is a remake 
 of Mario 64 for the N64. This time around Yoshi, Wario, and Luigi are playable. Wheres Waluigi? 
 There is also an awesome multiplayer and dozens of highly addictive mini-games to unlock and play. 
 The story mode has been slighty altered from its original form to allow for 3 new characters, new 
 courses, and 30, count em' 30 new stars. This game will keep you busy for quite some time if your 
 trying to get all 150 stars, and is reccomendable to everyone, I repeat everyone, except those 
 who are to retarded to enjoy mario, in his 64 bit glory. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: scared_link
Rating: 8.1
Date: Apr 4, 2006 3:36 pm PT
Review:  In 1996 the N64 was out, with it was the first, successful 3-D Mario. When it was out on the DS, 
 people where going crazy. This is one of the games that made the DS the biggest and best-selling 
 handheld in the world. This time you've got four people to play with, Yoshi, Luigi, and Wario and 
 off course Mario. But you start off with Yoshi. The rest are captured by Bowser. You've got to 
 save them all! 
  
  Each player has different abilities. There is a box (like the wing hat) that'll unlock them. Mario 
 turns into a giant weightless fat thing that can float above everything. Yoshi turns into a hologram; 
 you can go through blocks and stuff. Yoshi spits out fire, Nice! Wario turns into an invincible 
 metal man! Each has their own levels. But you can only defeat Bowser, go to his level, with Mario. 
 Not too shabby, eh?
  
  There are 30 more stars than the original 120 stars, so 150 stars. There are stars all over, secret 
 ones, easy ones, the ones where you need 100 stars to complete. There is a major problem, the controls. 
 It's hard to control the characters. This game requires an analogue stick. You could use the touch 
 screen, but it's still annoying. Also the camera angles can piss you off. And it does get tiring 
 going to the main room and changing in to the character you need. 
  
  They did add a mini-game section! Yes. All over the castle there are rabbits. You've got to catch 
 all of them, they'll unlock minigames, in the old one they where stars. Each character has different 
 types of minigames. Yoshi has social, Mario has decision ones, Wario races, Luigi Cards. There 
 are white rabbits all over the castle. Get all off them for a Wammy prize. The prize? It's a surprise...
 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: tiaplevet
Rating: 8.8
Date: Apr 4, 2006 10:23 am PT
Review:  much better than the Nintendo 64 on that game and took me a very long time to get the 150 stars. this 
 game is one of the best for adventure for DS and I am waiting for the new super Mario 128. there 
 are many small games to find and are fun. this is a very good game to buy on DS. this game is good 
 looking and very long to finish so I recommend this game to all the DS possessors. just the DS 
 is not advantaging the game with its new abilities very much but congratulation for Nintendo who 
 did agood work in this game 
::::::

::::::
UserName: WFCHurricane
Rating: 5
Date: Apr 3, 2006 10:22 am PT
Review:  I have this game pretty long now, I bought it when I just got my DS (there were hardly games for 
 it) because it was the only game out that got an 8+ from gamespot. I played the game, in the beginning 
 it was pretty nice but it started to get boring way too early. The graphics are fine. In a way, 
 the gameplay is fine but i guess this just isn't 'my' game. 
  The minigames are quite entertaining actually. I spent most time to w8 for next game on playing 
 the minigames. 
  
  With all the cool games out now (Metroid Prime Hutners, Mario Kart, Animal Crossing and stuff like 
 that) I wouldn't buy this game, there are better games for the DS now. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: zman101
Rating: 9.6
Date: Apr 1, 2006 2:03 pm PT
Review:  Mario 64 for the ds has inproved since the original version from the Nintendo 64. For starters 
 the graphics are way better. There are also more stars to unlock and not only can you play with 
 Mario but you can also play with Yoshi, Luigi, and Wario. This is by far one of the most famous 
 and popular ds game of all time. I bet you can ask one person "Do you have Mario 64 for the ds 
 and they would say yes." This game was the best game when the ds first came out. If you are just 
 buying the ds take a look at this game first. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Nilihist
Rating: 9.8
Date: Mar 31, 2006 8:42 pm PT
Review:  This game roks oh yeah it does. The single player is the best I want to just beat it again just 
 kiddin it took so flippin long for me to beat this game. And you have the ability to yoshi, Luigi, and 
 Wario. OMG there is 150 stars and i got em all. I love this game I want to keep saying it in my review 
 hell yeah. The thing is the controls weren't as cool as the one on N64. but who really cares you 
 got classic on the palm of your hand. oH YAH. i CAT WAIT till super mario bros come out. Hell yeah 
 this like halo in 3rd person (except without the guns and the aliens and the violence oh you know 
 what I mean) . Ohhhhhhh! this game is the best I HAVE EVER PLAYED in a handheld system. But dont started 
 on the mini games, They are so freakin fun and so much of them. AHH here is my graph of the game
 
  
  
 
  
  NEVER ENDING HOW AWESOME THIS GAME IS. 5 OUT OF FREAKIN 5 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gameshark5
Rating: 9.4
Date: Mar 31, 2006 8:02 pm PT
Review:  Super Mario 64 was a comeplete masterpiece back in the day. And now they've added some excellent 
 touches to this already awesome game. So heres my simple detailed review.
  
  Gameplay: Superb. 4 players to play from, new beginning, new levels, stars, bosses, plenty of bonus' 
 and minigames. 10/10
  
  Graphics: Good. Levels still look good, no glitches, great frame rate. The game is a little too 
 cartoony. 8/10
  
  Sound: Great. Music still sounds great, Mario, Luigi, Yoshi, Bowser and Wario still have their 
 unique voices. 9/10
  
  Value: Great. Theres plenty more stars to collect, a bunch of minigames to unlock, multiplayer... isnt 
 so thrilling. 9/10
  
  Tilt: Superb. Great touches added to the game, lots to do, worth the money, dont hesitate to buy 
 this. 10/10
  
  Difficulty: Easy
  Time: 10-20 hours
  Curve: 0-30 mins
  Class: Just Plain Fun.
  
  9.5 Superb 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sharpshooter226
Rating: 8.8
Date: Mar 30, 2006 2:03 pm PT
Review:  If you are a fan of the N64 classic sm 64 then you will love this game it has everything the old 
 one had plus a pretty fun multiplayer cool minigames and the ability to play with not only mario 
 but also yoshi, luigi, and Warrio and this time yoshi is actually the main charater the game can 
 get a little boring but you will play it for awhile if you own a DS then this one should definitly 
 be in your collection this is how mario should be now overall it is still a great game that will 
 imerse you in the wonderful world of mario 
::::::

::::::
UserName: honkyjoe
Rating: 9.3
Date: Mar 29, 2006 11:59 am PT
Review:  super mario 64 DS is a great game that combines the addictive gameplay of the first super mario 
 64 and adds new characters and elements that have never before been fetured in a mario platformer. 
 There are 4 playable characters: yoshi, mario, luigi and wario. All characters have there own unique 
 abbilities that you will need to beat the game, for example wario uses his strength and weight 
 to cush massive blocks that the others cant. The game is very long but does get kindu boring neir 
 the end when your just trying to find a star but youve gotten all of the obvious ones in the castle. The 
 graphics are almost identical to the n64's graphics witch is just how avvid mario fans like it. the 
 bowser battles are EXTREMELY!! easy and can be easily beaten in one or two lives. besides the boss 
 battles Super Mario 64 DS is a great and fun game that every DS owner should have. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Erazuraz
Rating: 8.6
Date: Mar 29, 2006 10:44 am PT
Review:  It's great to see my favorite old games emerge from the past to be played with one last time. Super 
 Mario 64 DS brings back all the old flavor from the first game plus so much more. The chance to 
 play with new characters and uncovering new parts to the castle (small parts) keeps the game a 
 little more fresh even to the most experienced Mario 64 players. My only real annoyance to the 
 game came from the controlling. The attempt at a joystick for the touch screen didn't work too 
 well leaving me to use the restricting D-pad. Maybe it's just me, but by not getting the hang of 
 the joystick really hindered my playing. Other than that though, a great game! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: shayster007
Rating: 9.4
Date: Mar 28, 2006 8:51 pm PT
Review:  Amazing on The N64, even better now, i will and have played this game over and over. and always 
 will play this game. As good As it gets, and Wouldn't change a thing. i thought game play was great, 
 but new things were quite small and boring. Some of the spots wre kinda hard to because of the 
 controls. over all the game was amzing and i think anyone who like Mario and his gang will play 
 this game over and over, and this is a gammer must have. the Multi stinks tho, it is very boring 
 and dosn; t have much to do, i would have liked to see a wi-fi becouse i could see tournys being 
 great in this game 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lild1425
Rating: 8.6
Date: Mar 28, 2006 2:50 pm PT
Review:  Gameplay: 
  The controls aren't too bad. The camera angles are often bad and using the touch screen to move 
 is confusing and takes time to learn. The game allows you to play various Nintendo characters and 
 try to get stars, so that you can basically get passed doors. The game gets challenging without 
 getting hard, but you'll find your hands sweating at boss battles. There are mini games included 
 in the game that is an addition to the 64 version, and they are smashing fun with almost infinite 
 replay value.
  
  Graphics:
  The graphics are actually quite impressive. The 3D environments look pretty good.
  
  Sound:
 
  It has all the music that you hear in every Mario game, neither great nor bad.
  
  Value:
  Great value in this game. There are a total 150 stars even though you only need 80 or 
 so to get to the last boss. The game is not very short, but not extremely long either. The game 
 is at perfect length and once you beat it once, you may find yourself playing through it again.
 
  
  TIlt:
  The game is very fun and very intense and is the perfect starter game for when you get your DS. 
 I used the stylus to play the mini games rather than use it for the actual gameplay, so it really 
 doesn't show off the touch screen. This is a great game and if you haven't played the 64 version, 
 you must give this game a try.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: tysse23
Rating: 8.7
Date: Mar 28, 2006 5:46 am PT
Review:  I was REALLY happy when i saw this game for the first time, I missed the original one for the N64 
 (my game ''died'' by low temperature) .
  And it was cool to find out that you could be Wario, Yoshi and Luigi, instead of only Mario. I 
 had a dream about SM 64 when i was a kid... i dreamt that i were Yoshi, so that was really cool 
 when I could be Yoshi on this game.
  
  On with the game now: You start as Yoshi who's quest is to rescue Mario, Luigi and Wario, well 
 before you start its kind of the same as in SM64, just that the Lakitu guy starts talking to Yoshi 
 and tells hum that he has to save Mario and friends (rival and brother) . And then you start playing (WOOHOO!) .
 
  There are 150 stars to collect in the game. (In the original game there are 120) .
  
  And its lots of addictive mini games which you get from catching rabbits.
  
  Thats what i had 
 to tell you about this game.
  
  (If you haven't read my other review, on MK DS, read it!) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TQ_NintyNoE
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jul 31, 2008 1:38 pm PT
Review:  Mario 64 DS is a remake of Super Mario 64, the 3D Mario platformer which debuted on N64 over a 
 decade ago. For those who played and loved the original, or even Mario Sunshine- you're in for 
 a treat, If you hate 3D or have a problem with moustaches. look away now!
  
  The remake of Mario 64 keeps to the original versions game-play style. Mario keeps his same set 
 of moves as he runs, jumps, spins and leaps through fantastic looking environments. Yet this version 
 of the game has much more to it than the original, despite being on a cartridge 10 times smaller.
 
  
  The story begins as Super Mario launches out of a pipe along with his brother Luigi and old rival 
 Wario. Princess Toadstool has baked a cake and Mario has come to eat it. As Mario enters the castle, 
 party crashers Luigi and Wario follow pursuit.
  A green huddle of scales lies asleep when suddenly awoken by a Lakitu. The Lakitu explains to the 
 now awakened Yoshi that Mario and company haven't come out the castle for ages and thus suggests 
 that Yoshi should go and investigate, and so the adventure begins...
  
  You start out in Mario 64 DS as Yoshi, opposed to the original N64 version where the player started 
 as Mario. it is your job to find the other characters, search through the castle and defeat the 
 evil power locked away.
  As the story progresses Mario will become available, as will other characters. Once you enter the 
 castle you will have to find the hidden portals to levels to jump in to save a magic Starman stolen 
 by the enemy. The main objective is to gather enough Starmen to complete the game, but don't think 
 that this is a boring collect 'em up. The Powerstars only become available once an objective is 
 done. In the first world for example, you will race a Koopa trooper and defeat enemies. Once you 
 finish the objective the star will become available for collecting. You then have to touch the 
 star to progress. The stars in Mario are essentially the equivalent of the Emblems in the 3D Sonic 
 the Hedgehog games.
  
  Mario 64 DS consists of around 17 levels altogether, with 7 Stars per world (with a few exceptions) . 
 There are 150 Stars in all (20 more than the original- definitely enough to warrant a purchase) 
 and the game will take about 20 - 30 hours to complete, which means quite a few DS recharges.
 
  
  There are varying objectives. Some missions require that you destroy a boss while others have you 
 collecting coins.
  The game is also now a fair bit easier due to the new characters abilities which won't be spoiled 
 by this review
  There are also rabbits to catch. if you catch a rabbit it'll drop a key for you to be used in the 
 new 'Mini-game Room'. The mini-games all use the stylus. There are loads of mini-games to collect 
 and you WILL keep coming back to them to beat previous high scores, because they're really funny 
 to play, and very addictive. There are also more worlds and hidden paths and secret extras to find.
 
  
  The games graphics aren't shabby either. Beautiful worlds full of wildlife such as Goomba's, Koopa's 
 and the odd butterfly or two... The graphics have had a major overhaul. The animations of characters 
 are superb and the worlds all look vibrant. the backgrounds blur a small bit when running at top 
 speed and far away things look a bit pixelated, but the draw distance is great, and there's nothing 
 to really worry about.
  
  The sound is improved too, and Nintendo has replaced many of the original out of place sounds with 
 the more familiar ones, an example being the 'Bopop!' when you jump on Goomba's and other creatures. 
 The tunes themselves are still the same as the originals, and the game takes advantage of dual 
 speakers. The game allows you to switch to 'Headphone', 'Stereo' or 'Surround'. On the Surround 
 option however, battery is drained slightly quicker. The sound can unfortunately become a bit tinny 
 when turned down on the original Nintendo DS, which is a bit of a downer. So don't send your copy 
 back thinking it's broken!
  
  The controls are great, but could use tweaking. The D-pad controls are near perfect, and are precise 
 and easy to use. The stylus and thumb strap can be used in the same way as an analogue control 
 (like the Original version) on the bottom screen, however this makes the game harder, as it is 
 less precise and your thumb can easily stray off onto the edge of the bottom screens boundaries. 
 The controls can also be set to left handed users or right handed, just like the Metroid Prime 
 Hunters demo.
  
  Overall the game is simply brilliant. The comical look of Mario and the others as they spin, jump 
 and punch is amazing! The extras are worth the money alone and you can't buy a better 3D platformer 
 game for DS. The are tonnes of secrets, tones of 'WOW!' moments... This is a must have DS game.
 
  
  TQ_NintyNoE
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Davidhalo18
Rating: 8.4
Date: Mar 27, 2006 1:11 am PT
Review:  Mario 64 DS may just be a rehash of a classic N64 game, but this is a perfect example of how taking 
 an old game and making it new can be
  a good thing.
  
  The addition of the mini games and so forth in an optional menu at the
  front screen that can 
 be unlocked ingame is a very nice touch, as these
  mini games are mostly fun and enjoyable even for short spans of time.
  
  The actual game is 
 changed quite a bit from the original with the intro
  of 3 new characters. These new characters are not just throw ins to
  replace however, its a change 
 in the story and each character is unique
  and controls quite well given the controller has no stick adjustment or
  anything using the Stylus 
 can be tricky and the D-Pad feels more solid
  then fluid.
  
  The game itself plays fantastic just like the original 64 version but 
  surprisingly with better 
 graphics on the smaller screen and although
  the addition of the map on the 2nd screen is nice it could've been made
  at a slightly higher 
 resolution to help the gamer.
  
  The local multiplay on the game is quite fun but alas a few more options
  or modes of play would've 
 made this package more complete.
  
  Even though some things lacking Super Mario 64 DS is a welcome
  start to a great line of Nintendo 
 games for the DS and paves the way
  to abuse the 3d technology of it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hionspeed64
Rating: 9.4
Date: Mar 26, 2006 12:52 pm PT
Review:  Super Mario 64 was a smash hit when it debuted on the Nintendo 64. It is one of the best 2D to 
 3D transitions of all time, in my opinion, and has spawned many other 3D platformers that have 
 tried to recreate its greatness. Super Mario 64 DS may not be as groundbreaking at the original, 
 but it certainly does bring the positive points of the original back to Nintendos new handheld 
 masterfully. There are now 3 more characters for you to choose from: Wario, Luigi, and Yoshi. Each 
 character has special abilities that allow them to complete tasks that Mario cant. The game now 
 has 30 more stars to collect than the original, and a myriad of fun and challenging mini-games. 
 The mini-games take full advantage of the DS touch screen, and are extremely addicting. Even after 
 youre finished playing the lengthy single player game, you will find the mini-games just as fun 
 as when you first unlocked them. The only serious flaw is multiplayer. Multiplayer mode has you 
 and a couple of friends jumping on and attacking each other to collect the most stars. Thats it. 
 Nothing else. No variety whatsoever, just a couple of maps. Muliplayer = no fun. I have no idea 
 why they cant take it out.
  
  The bottom line is that Super Mario 64 DS is a marvelous, nostalgic game that brings back the Nintendo 
 64s glory, along with some refreshing new changes. Just keep you and your friends away from that 
 multiplayer; itll give you cancer.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: gogogoman
Rating: 9.1
Date: Mar 26, 2006 1:54 am PT
Review:  In my formative years i was about 8 or 9 during the nintendo 64 era but never got around to buying 
 one (went with the playstation instead. But i always remember the hours spent at my best freinds 
 house playing his. Unfortunately i was never able to fully experience it in all it's glory due 
 to often fragmented visits. 
  
  To me mario 64 ds is a trip to the past and a chance to complete what i had started. 
  
  At 
 first i was shocked by the graphics and after watching a few movies of the original i am convinced 
 they are even better. 
  The game has superb replay value and the minigames only add to that, i have spent hours upon hours 
 mesmerised.
  It's sound could be better but overall has catchy tunes and good voice effects. Sometime stereo 
 sound goes out of synch though.
  
  I think just about every DS owner should have a copy of this game, it is worth every cent. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bebop89
Rating: 6.6
Date: Mar 24, 2006 10:31 pm PT
Review:  Well if you have played the original Super Mario 64, you know what to expect here. SM64 was a great 
 game, one of the greatest 64 games of all time, but sadly this game does not have that same greatness. 
 Sure there are three new characters, loads of really fun mini-games, and the complete original 
 game intact and looking as good as ever, but the games controls are so god awful it kills all of 
 that. The game had potential to be truly awesome, which makes it really sad that such a small mistake 
 really killed the game. Controlling any character is such a pain in the ass when you first start 
 to play, and sadly it never gets any easier. Many objectives you'll remember being rather easy 
 from the original are now extremely difficult here due to the game's clunky control set-up. I will 
 say this though, if you can manage to get past the horrid control scheme, you have yourself a great 
 game, but unfortunately I found them too unbearable to overcome. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: CamaroChevySS
Rating: 6.8
Date: Mar 19, 2006 9:19 pm PT
Review:  I bought this becuase I never played Super Mario 64, I've heard nothing but great things about 
 the N64 version so I figured what the hell, I might as well buy it. Wow, I hope the original wasn't 
 this bad. 
  
  Gameplay- The gameplay is alright. The object is too collect hidden stars throughout each level, 
 the only problem is some stars can be insanley hard too find. I never thought I'd have too go to 
 GameFAQs for a PORTABLE game, talk about embarrasing. 
  
  The camera angles are terrible, same with the camera controls. You control the camera with the 
 touch screen, which gets confusing when you have to carefully time everything. 
  
  The controls are crap. You'll almost always end up falling off an edge once you have too navigate 
 a narrow ledge or platform, plus like Gamespot said, the controls could have been tightend up... a 
 lot. 
  
  Graphics: pretty damn good for a DS game.
  
  Sound: if you've played any other Mario game before, you know what too expect.
  
  Value: I 
 hope it's worth a lot, that way I can get the most out of it when I sell it. 
  
  Tilt/My opinion: overall I give it a 6 out of 10. I really wanted too like this game, but the bad 
 camera, frustraiting gameplay and bad controls make made me bitter. 
  
  If you want too play this game, I'd try Gamefly, not worth a buy IMO. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: akodikosako
Rating: 8
Date: Mar 19, 2006 12:38 pm PT
Review:  Super Mario 64 is a remake of the original Super Mario 64 on the Nintendo 64. Although one of the 
 flagship titles of the Nintendo DS, Super Mario 64 is one of a selected few first party games that 
 actually *kind of* suck. Unless you have played the original, I'd advise you to rent this one first.
 
  
  The story hasn't changed greatly: Princess Peach is kidnapped by a big turtle named Bowser, and 
 Mario (along with Luigi and Wario) have come to save the day. Unfortuneatly, they too got stuck 
 in the castle, and now Yoshi has to rescue them. It's not much, but enough to keep the story, as 
 well as the game, quite interesting.
  
  The first thing I noticed right off the bat is the graphics. They are one of the best I have seen 
 on a handheld, maybe on par with Mario Kart DS. They could pass as a PSP title. Sound is above 
 expectations, from the famous Mario tune to the Delfino Square music. The framerate is also VERY 
 smooth.
  
  Here comes the part that brings everything down, difficulty and the controls. This game is extremely 
 hard, and I cannot stress that enough. Many enemies and hard- to- find objects make this supposedly 
 easy game harder than it really is. Aside from it's difficult nature, the controls make it frustrating 
 to pass through levels. Using the touch screen might help, but you will still find this game as 
 hard as Halo on Legendary (a. k. a really HARD) .
  
  The minigames, to me, seem better than the actual quest. They are addicitive, fun, and much easier 
 than the story. Yet you still have to finish the storyline, as you will accumulate more minigames 
 along the way.
  
  Super Mario 64 is worth buying, but it is better to rent it first, to see if it matches with your 
 taste. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TinHaxor
Rating: 9.7
Date: Mar 19, 2006 12:10 pm PT
Review:  Just like the original, Super Mario 64 DS is extremely fun and entertaining. A must have for all 
 DS owners, especially those who liked the Nintendo 64 version. As well as being similar to the 
 original, the DS version has many added features.
  
  The normal game is not quite the same as the original. There are 150 stars this time around. Four 
 playable characters, in order of appearance: Yoshi, Mario, Luigi, and Wario. The graphics are a 
 blocky when youre in close-up mode, but you'll hardly notice it while having fun. There are proper 
 sound effects and music. However the controls are a bit difficult to master when you start playing, 
 though it does become easier as you play more and more.
  
  An added bonus is the mini games. Throughout the game you will come across bunny rabbits, which 
 with each one you catch, one of the 36 mini games will be unlocked. These mini games are all designed 
 for the touch screen and are replayable. Another added feature is at the welcome screen, which 
 allows you to play around with drawings.
  
  To sum up I would say that this game is incredible, long and so much fun. The puzzles, mini games, 
 power-ups, characters and general gameplay all contribute to making this a very, very, very good 
 game! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: CoolZaim
Rating: 9.8
Date: Mar 19, 2006 9:40 am PT
Review:  This game is a must have for DS owners. Even if your not a fan it's still a must have.
  
  This game is incredible, long and so much fun. Loads of puzzles and power-ups and charactors make 
 this a very, very, very fantastic game!
  
  There is now 150 stars to get, which is a lot. You start of as Yoshi and find character keys to 
 help your Mario, Luigi and Wario.
  
  To add to the games fantastic gameplay, there are bunny rabbits spread out in the game in hiddne 
 locations! Get these and you get really good and inventive mini-games!
  
  The graphics are very good! They look much, much better from any other DS game.
  
  The sound 
 is fantastic. 
  
  This game is essential for the DS! Get it!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SonicKid_UK
Rating: 8.9
Date: Mar 17, 2006 11:35 pm PT
Review:  To those who have played Super Mario 64 on the Nintendo 64 this will be nothing new to you, infact 
 almost exactly the same at the start of the game. But it gives you a fair amount of freedom to 
 roam the castle grounds and once you have completed the initial missions each level allows you 
 other possible bonus missions. Mini games are fun but oh so pointless but the graphics are nice 
 to look at and are pleasing to the eye. Nothing new from the Mario Formula but do people really 
 want that? I don't think so as I am happy with this purchase 
::::::

::::::
UserName: EviliPodMan99
Rating: 9.3
Date: Mar 17, 2006 1:48 pm PT
Review:  This game is a perfect remake for Super Mario 64. The graphics are outstanding! It's really fun 
 with more people because then, your friends can share the anger and happiness. You just run around 
 a castle looking for pictures to jump into. Then you use Yoshi to start out. After, when you find 
 Mario, Luigi and Wario then it's really a lot of fun. Peach has been captured and kept by Bowser. 
 Although she writes a letter telling Mario, Luigi and Wario she has made a pie, so they run into 
 the trap as Yoshi sleeps on top of the castle. In the n64 version Peach says to Mario I have been 
 captured by Bowser come save me. It's a fun game if you have enough money for a DS game and you 
 have a lot of time on your hands. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Cat333Pokemon
Rating: 9.6
Date: Mar 15, 2006 8:48 pm PT
Review:  This game is an awesome remake of an awesome game! It is extremely fun and entertaining just like 
 the original Super Mario 64 was for the Nintendo 64. The new DS version adds quite a few new mini 
 games (36 to be exact) to the fun, all designed for the touch screen.
  
  The normal game is not quite the same as the original. It has many little changes and star changes -- as 
 a matter of fact, there are 150 stars this time around -- and four characters, in order of appearance: 
 Yoshi, Mario, Luigi, and Wario. The graphics are a blocky when youre in close-up mode, but you 
 hardly notice it while having fun. The sound is very nice, as well. There are proper sound effects 
 and music. The controls will take a while to learn, because they are a little tricky.
  
  It has a lot of replayability. You get three files (we lost one from the N64) , so unless you have 
 friends playing, you should get plenty of time in. However, there is a time when the game may just 
 drop off, like some other games. That is normal, however.
  
  Ill sum it up in one word: Wow.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Canuuk
Rating: 9.3
Date: Mar 15, 2006 7:38 pm PT
Review:  Super Mario 64 became the best platformer back in 1996 and remains one of the best today. When 
 we all thought it couldn't be possibly any better, Nintendo surprised us once again. This time, 
 Mario brought some friends along with him.
  
  In SM64 DS, Luigi, Wario and Yoshi help out Mario in his quest to save the princess, again. More 
 stars are to be collected and can only be gained by every characters' unique moves. The touch screen 
 acts as a map and you can also ajust the camera angles with the stylus. 
  
  The pixel rate of the game has also been modified to increase sharpness and have better graphics 
 than the original game. The controls can be frustrating at times since we cannot use the analog 
 stick this time around.
  
  Overall, the best games come from Nintendo and this one is no less than great. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: r9tgokunks
Rating: 9.4
Date: Mar 12, 2006 3:00 pm PT
Review:  If you were a big fan of Super Mario 64 then you were probably wetting your pants when you heard 
 that Nintendo was bringing Super Mario 64 to a portable market, or perhaps you wondered if Nintendo 
 would insult the masterpieceful adventure by leaving stuff out, and carelessly forgetting about 
 the greatness of it. Fast Forward to today and the Nintendo DS is outselling PSP, and what game 
 would you be most common to find in a DS gamer's shelf? Super Mario 64 DS. It greatly gives that 
 'classic' feeling of what you would probably expect out of the original, and maybe even more. The 
 new version is a familiar expierence until you reach the title screen, they have now added a drawing 
 feature, which you can do numerous twists, turns, and other actions to a picture you have drawn. 
 Another welcome feature added is the in the Mini-Game Department. Taking from Wario Ware what made 
 it an original, Super Mario 64 DS includes a similar but more scaled down selection of mini-games. 
 With 36 mini-games in all, it adds the ability to open new mini-games as you progress through the 
 game and unlock new characters such as Mario, Luigi, and Wario, doing this causes a pink rabbit 
 to appear in certain spots, requiring you to chase it down which unlocks a new game, and some times 
 a new set of games. The minigames are stylus based, have strong presentation, fun and addictive 
 they could almost stand on their own as a game. Relating to the characters, you will notice something 
 a bit strange at first, you start out the game as Yoshi, which quickly becomes irrelevent as the 
 game gets further into the story and more interesting. Also a few of the main changes to the game 
 is the fact that the star count has been increased from the originals 120 stars to 150 in the DS 
 version, and also the ability to switch gameplay controls from Stylus, to D-Pad. The Main and very 
 few weaknesses of the game become apparant as you play the game more. One being that the controls 
 make it a tad bit frustrating, too frustrating at first. Too often you will make a slight mistake 
 that will cause you to start from scratch after playing for 5 mins. The camera is another area that 
 makes you scratch your head and ask:"Did someone actually play test this game?" The issues with 
 the controls could have been remedied with an intuitive camera but instead you get a camera with 
 its own mind, which usually complicates an already uneasy situation. The graphics were, quite simply, 
 amazing for the DS particularly for one that came out so early, but the textures arent very pretty 
 when you get up close and personal. Frame rate is rather steady, and the models look great for 
 the DS adding the bright screen which really brings the levels to life. The sound is great, with 
 a nice mix of tunes, and great sound effects you may find yourself trying to figure out how they 
 did that with those tiny speakers, and there are even some sound based puzzles where the audio is 
 your guide. All in all I'd strongly recommend this game for any First-Time DS owners, and if you 
 purchase this as your first DS game, you will agree that 'touching' is indeed a good thing. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dalek301
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 12, 2006 11:31 am PT
Review:  This was probably my second DS game I bought, also having the N64 version I though it would be 
 great as a handheld. The answer, it is. They have taken the whole N64 game and crammed it onto 
 a small cartridge, that is amazing. All the graphics are intact and still look cool on the DS, 
 from the quirky enemies to the polygon characters, of which there are more. That's right, Yoshi, 
 Wario and Luigi are all playable besides our faithful red caped plumber extraordinaire (sorry) . 
 This adds new gameplay because each character has their own set of strengths, weaknesses and abilities. 
 For example, Yoshi is more speed and jump whereas Wario is all about strength and more strength. 
 The musical score is still there bringing the old sounds of nostalgia back, do do do do do do, 
 bum. Besides this, there are new mini-games that have been added, around 12 for each character, 
 these are unlocked by finding various bunnies with keys around the castle. These range from Poker, 
 snap and roulette to the cup and pea game, fortune telling and mix and match of character faces. 
 And finally, the DS version interprets a multiplayer feature where you can face off against you 
 mates in various collecting and fighting missions to keep your fingers fresh. Besides the odd fiddly 
 controls due to the smaller DS pad, this is a classic must own game, get it now. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Majatt
Rating: 8.7
Date: Mar 11, 2006 9:21 pm PT
Review:  Gameplay wise this game should've been able to get a 10, with the new characters more stars than 
 the original and more ways to get stars along with the mini-games and mini-game unlocking system. 
 However it trips over itself in a few areas, as will anyone playing it. The controls make it frustrating, 
 not challenging but frustrating. Too often you will make a slight mistake that will cause you to 
 start from scratch after playing for 5 mins and can really just make you hammer that off button. 
 The camera is another area that makes you scratch your head, did someone actually play test this 
 game? The issues with the controls couldve been remedied with an intuitive camera but instead we 
 get a camera with a mind of its own, which usually complicates an already difficult situation. 
 For example, your trying to run across a bridge that collapse as you run across it and your STRUGGLING 
 to keep your bearings cuz the camera started at a slight angle, rather than centering behind you 
 firmly the camera will swing around to make it impossible for you to see where you are going at 
 an irregular pace so, even with a control stick, you cant compensate. Basically the gameplay is 
 very solid in theory but the execution can cause some grey hair. Still enjoyable, once you can 
 get past those few collapsing bridges. You can use the touch screen but that really takes some 
 getting used to and isnt that much better once you do. If they had a stationary point from which 
 you could touch and go it would be fine, but the directional controller which appears on the touch 
 pad follows the stylus when you go past the rim and since your not looking its difficult to find 
 your centre.
  
  Unlocking the mini-games is fun, chasing down bunnies, and at some points just knowing you will 
 get a new MG spurs you on past that collapsing bridge! The minigames are stylus based, have strong 
 presentation, fun and addictive they could almost stand on their own as a game. If this is your 
 first DS game you will agree "touching is good". Having to unlock them though is a double edge 
 sword since they are a reward but often you'd just rather play the mini games and when youve got 
 say 80% of them and you want the rest unlocking them can seem like a chore. There is also multiplayer 
 which isnt much to shout about but at least it is there.
  
  The graphics are, quite simply, amazing for the DS particularly for one that came out so early. 
 The textures arent very pretty when you get upclose and personal but you'll be too busy with those 
 collapsing bridges to notice. Frame rate is rather steady, the models look great for the DS and 
 the bright screen really brings the levels to life. If the textures were a bit better I would be 
 inclined to give it a 10 but they are noticable.
  
  The sound is great, nice mix of tunes, great sound effects and this title really brings out the 
 stereo capability. At first you may find yourself trying to figure out how they did that with those 
 tiny speakers, there are even some sound based puzzles where the audio is your guide.
  
  With 150 Stars, 15 main worlds, 36 minigames, 2 completely different control styles (touch/d-pad) , 
 multiplayer mode and 4 different characters to choose from there is alot to see and do and various 
 ways to do what you see.
  
  If only they had a good camera....
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: goldenfreak
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 11, 2006 5:41 pm PT
Review:  mario 64 on the nintendo 64 recieved a 9.4 which is oviously a fantastic rating. mario 64 DS is 
 bascily a polished version of the original with some new twists like being able move your character 
 with a stylus on the touch screen, and to be able to play as yoshi, luigi, and wario which is always 
 fun because to get each star of the castle you must use each characters special abilities that 
 the others dont have ex: when wario uses a flower he turns into metal which alows him to sink in 
 water and get things you couldnt access before. Mario 64 DS delivers everything the original had 
 but better graphics and a little more gameplay, but if you dont like being stuck with a small screen 
 you might as well just play the original because the games are almost identical. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Jordantosh
Rating: 9.3
Date: Mar 10, 2006 10:26 am PT
Review:  The first DS game I ever got (excluding the Metroid Prime Hunters demo) was this. When I started 
 playing it, I noticed many changes. Mario didn't look odd, there were more Stars, and best of all, 
 you can unlock more characters!
  
  Nintendo also added mini-games to play, which was the first thing I noticed that really used the 
 touch screen. The mini-games are fun and some are very addicting. They're great if you want to 
 take a break from the main game (which is also addicting.)
  
  I highly suggest this game for all players. If you liked the original Super Mario 64, you will 
 love this! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Jdh77dsp
Rating: 9.1
Date: Mar 9, 2006 4:26 pm PT
Review:  This game is better than the original with room for the little improvement. having more than one 
 character made it even funner. Having 30 more stars than the original made it longer which also 
 made it even better.
  
  The gameplay was awesome, having four characters to use made it harder because you had to find 
 the characters and get through a mini course to get them. They could have made a faster way to 
 permanetly change your character. Them having different special abilities was an unexpected delight. 
 They could have made it a lot harder. It also could have had a few more bosses. They could have 
 got rid of the simple way to get health by go under water. The mini games were good. It could have 
 used more. The mini games could have had more of a variety and it could have also had a few games 
 that requierd you to use the buttons and the touch screen with a good combonation.
  
  The graphics were the best part about the game. They were better than the origanal graphics on 
 the N64 which is a great acheivment since the DS is a portable and the N64 is a console.
  
  The sound was exelent but it could have been a little bit better but it was pretty good.
  
 
  The value and tilt were all right but had room for improvement.
  
  Overall it was a really good game that could have had less glitches.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: bustershot
Rating: 8
Date: Mar 9, 2006 10:47 am PT
Review:  Though it was one of the first games to arrive at the DS, Mario 64 DS has its own positive and 
 negative points, positive points would include:
  
  1) More Characters adds variety to the game and Multi-player has its own rewards of satisfaction 
 ( grabs friends and throws him 50 feet away... woohoo)
  
  2) All the previous stages and more with 30 extra stars to collect.
  
  3) Mini-games add more 
 value to the game and has some games which are worth showing off.
  
  4) All that and a map, they might as well make the legend of Zelda : Ocarina of time too.
  
 
  5) Playing with the stylus adds more configuring.
  
  Now the down-sides:
  
  1) Gets boring after completing the game once.
  
  2) not many noticable changes except a few 
 more stars and some more small stages.
  
  3) The stylus is better for the camera and mini-games than the actual gameplay.
  
  Oh well, 
 the Good qualities out weight the bad and this game is a classic, worth buying. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Surreal-Alias
Rating: 6.8
Date: Mar 8, 2006 12:14 pm PT
Review:  If you already played the Nintendo 64 version of this game just know that it's not much of a difference 
 between the two.
  
  Gameplay
  Same as Nintendo 64 version just different moves with the other three characters which is pretty 
 fun. Especially the new question mark boxes. Few of the minigames are fun. The multi - player is 
 probably the only reason why I have not sold the game yet.
  
  Graphics
  This was my first game for the D S so I guess the graphics are good.
  
  Sound
  Annoying as 
 hell besides the boss bowser music, metal wario, and water level.
  
  Value
  After you beat this game you will have no determination to get all the stars or the bunnies. Once 
 you get all the bunnies you get a key to this secret room. It's a rip off because it's hard as 
 hell to find those damn rabbits and it's just a star in the secret door. There is really no point 
 in getting all the stars.
  
  Tilt
  Could have been better. Too much like the original. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: wickerman2004
Rating: 8.6
Date: Mar 7, 2006 1:50 pm PT
Review:  SM64DS... I didn't think they would be able to put it all on that little cart.... I was wrong. Not 
 only is the whole game in there, nothing has been skimped on - this game is just as fun today as 
 it was 10 years ago. 
  
  CONTROL: You have a couple options in this department - the most obvious control issue is the lack 
 of an analog stick, I went through a couple of different setups. I used the momentum based d-pad 
 and found it to be cumbersome and in accurate, especially when in ares that require precision. 
 I switched over to using the thumb pad and after a few levels - it's was old times all over again, 
 why other companies aren't using this scheme this effectively on the DS is beyond me.
  
  GRAPHICS: Top notch - I think it looks spot on with the original, there is more pop up here though 
 - but it causes no gameplay issues. The colours are nice, textures are nice - the whole presentation 
 is very good.
  
  GAMEPLAY: Just as addictive as it was when it was first released for the N64, more stars to collect 
 this time. It's still fun to just run around and jump.
  The mini games are lots of fun too, great for short sessions while commercials are on!
  
  Overall 
 I feel this is a must have for any Mario fan, old or new, it's distilled Mario action - not diluted. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: arber91
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 7, 2006 12:48 pm PT
Review:  The N64 version of this game was an instant classic. Luckily, this game also takes after the N64 
 version. It brings what you loved on the N64 to the DS. The graphics are actually better than the 
 N64 version. Just goes to show the power of the DS. The gameplay is slightly different from the 
 original. In this game, to add a little extra, there are more than just mario as a character. You 
 can use Mario, Luigi, Wario, or Yoshi. Each has their strengths and weaknesses, and they will all 
 be needed in certain parts of the game. The music is the same, just now it comes out of the DS 
 speakers. To make the game longer, they added an extra 30 stars to get, which makes it even more 
 impossible to get all of the stars :) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Famicomman
Rating: 8.9
Date: Mar 6, 2006 4:45 pm PT
Review:  I liked the game play when it was staionary, I liked when it's portable. This game is one of my 
 top 10 because, not only to addictive game play, more bosses, and mini games, some of the level's 
 back ground musics and murals in the back are soothing. Ex : Wet Dry world and the The Sucken Ship 
 level ( I can't remember the name at the moment  _ 
::::::

::::::
UserName: shrtyscott3
Rating: 9.3
Date: Mar 5, 2006 7:38 pm PT
Review:  SM64 DS is an awesome game, just as great as the N64 version. You start off with Yoshi, then you 
 have you get keys to unlock the others who are Mario, Wario and Luigi. A bunch more stages and 
 missions, more ''bosses'', and more secrets.
  
  Also once you beat the game the mini games will keep you busy for some time... each character has 
 their own set of mini games, 12 per character. Each seems like they have a different category, 
 for instance, Luigi's games are casino games like poker and roulette.
  
  Even though it has loads of glitches some bad some good, overall its real great.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: gamesfreak4ever
Rating: 8
Date: Mar 5, 2006 4:56 am PT
Review:  if you played the first classic mario 64 game than your going to like this. here are some reasons 
 why. A great update of a classic game.; just enough has been changed to make old players have to 
 think to proceed.; minigames are fun and highly addictive, holds up good and has a good story and 
 fine graphics to look at. in my opion it was a great remake of the instant classic and the conrols 
 are good.. also in my opion the game is not to fun if you played the first one and now this but 
 somehow nitendo still makes a great game to share
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: hazimman
Rating: 9.7
Date: Mar 4, 2006 6:32 pm PT
Review:  When the Nintendo 64 launched back in 1996, the killer app for the system was Super Mario 64, the 
 game many critics at the time referred to as "The Best Game Ever (TM) ." Now here we are, just over 
 eight years later, and Nintendo is trotting Mario 64 out again to serve as the definitive launch 
 title for its new handheld system, the Nintendo DS. OK, so it's technically not the same game. 
 Instead of a straight up port, Nintendo has added plenty of new features to this dual screen version. 
 
  
  Leap into a painting, and you're off to an entirely different locale, many of which are old video 
 game standbys (a fire world, water world, snow world, etc.) . In each world, there are several hidden 
 stars to collect. You can only collect one star per visit, and there's a different method required 
 to find each one. So even though you must explore the same areas a few times, you'll be doing something 
 new each time you go there. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mario-Man
Rating: 9.4
Date: Mar 4, 2006 5:13 pm PT
Review:  This game when I got it I played it all the time. There was always something to do. 150 stars in 
 toatal. 3 people to unclock. I'd say theres always something to uclock. The graphics were pretty 
 good. Better than the originals. And the fact that it's on a hand held is pretty awsome. So far 
 i have 100 stars. I havent been playing it alot. The first stars are pretty easy bu they get harder. 
 The game in it self has alot to offer. The mini games are cool. I mastered all of them. This game 
 never gets boring cause you'll try again and again to get that star from Tic Tock Tower. Any way, 
 the courses have be very well put together from the origanl N64. There area few new areas and a 
 few new secrets. Alltogether this came was relly cool and it's worth investing in. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Supadan
Rating: 9.7
Date: Mar 3, 2006 1:48 pm PT
Review:  This game is probably the best game on the Nintendo DS at the moment, and if you enjoyed Super 
 Mario on the Gamecube, Snes, Advance, or any other nintendo syestem, this will be a dream come 
 true... The graphics are superb for a handheld console, and the competition is tough... By finding 
 magical keys on the game you can also unlock great fun mini - games to play on... This is the best 
 game so far as far as the DS goes and it is a must have for any DS player, you can play with Mario, 
 Luigi, Wario, or Yoshi as you travel throught the different painting to unlock and free your friends 
 from the evil Bowser... It is very, very addicting and you will never be able to come off it, you 
 meet loads of new enimies to pass through the levels and save the princess. In this new game you 
 can also get special powers which are specialised for on of the 3 main characters (Mario, Luigi 
 and Wario) which you need to help your strugge to defeat the badguys and win your gold. You must 
 get it, have fun... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bayroot88
Rating: 9.8
Date: Mar 2, 2006 5:30 pm PT
Review:  Super Mario 64 DS is the same game we played in 1996 whlie the storyline is the same when peach 
 invite mario into her castle. You play as yoshi not mario and that fellt tick me off while you 
 still need power stars to unlock stages in the game.
  
  Grahics
  
  The levels fells good and the productions quality fells good and thats wells its than the n64 game.
 
  
  Sound
  
  Music fells old school mario and the sounds effect are quiet good but yhe only down side of the 
 voice overs is a bit tenny.
  
  Gameplay
  Fells old school mario all over again the controls are reponsive and well done thats it a surbub 
 game.
  
  Vaule
  The Surprised of this version are custy mini-games and the vs mode as well unfornatly the mulitplayer 
 has three maps and it can be boring after a while this is a killer app for the DS.
  
  The Score
  9.9 Out Of 10
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Octochomp_5
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 2, 2006 5:32 am PT
Review:  A upgraded version of SM64 is just what we needed. With very high quality , a wide expansion of 
 worlds and very helpful characters. I always use Yoshi or Luigi, unless its a level that needs 
 someone else. The minigames are fun too. The rabbits, though annoying, are fun to catch just because 
 of the things they say eg. Oww, put me down you horrible rabbit grabber! What part of "I'm not 
 your lunch do you not understand?" I especially like catching the glowing rabbits. Only five more 
 to go. Bowser is also fun battling but is easy to beat right now. I still need to get 29 more stars 
 for the endless stairs. Oh well. Overall, it was easy to learn really, so it was cool. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: flinnha
Rating: 9.1
Date: Mar 1, 2006 4:00 pm PT
Review:  Any fan of the original Super Mario 64 on the N64 will find fond memories in playing this game. 
 It stays true to the original story and is almost an exact port with the addition of 3 playable 
 characters - Yoshi, Luigi, and Wario. Each of these guys has 1 of the formerly special powers of 
 Mario in the original upon hitting the red boxes throughout the game. So this time instead of finding 
 a red box, blue box, or green box based on your specific need at the time, you'll have to go and 
 change to the appropriate character and THEN hit the red box to get your special power (flying, 
 floating, invisibility, smashing hard blocks, etc...) . It adds an interesting twist. Also note 
 some new stars have been added so there are now a total of 150 stars to obtain.
  The only negative comment I have with regards to this game are the controls. A little bit akward 
 since you no longer have control of the camera with your right thumb, but you have 3 control configurations 
 to choose from so with a little patience one is bound to suit you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nicgar
Rating: 9.4
Date: Mar 1, 2006 12:39 pm PT
Review:  SM64 DS is an awesome game, just as great as the N64 version. You start off with Yoshi, then you 
 have you get keys to unlock the others who are Mario, Wario and Luigi. A bunch more stages and 
 missions, more ''bosses'', and more secrets.
  
  Also once you beat the game the mini games will keep you busy for some time... each character has 
 their own set of mini games, 12 per character. Each seems like they have a different category, 
 for instance, Luigi's games are casino games like poker and roulette.
  
  Even though it has loads of glitches some bad some good, overall its real great.
  
  If you 
 have any questions feel free to PM me 
::::::

::::::
UserName: JetLag123
Rating: 8.2
Date: Mar 1, 2006 11:38 am PT
Review:  my personal favorite game of all time is actually the nintendo 64 version of supermario 64. of 
 course, after hearing this game was going to launch with the ds, I was very very excited. after 
 recieveing the game, and looking at 3D on a handheld for the first time, I was impressed... but 
 upon continuous play of this game, I came to realize that it isnt the same game I remember.
  
  there are several differences in level design (mostly to accomodate for the new characters) 
 and the controls arent nearly as precise, but it is still a great game. the graphics are a step 
 above 64 but it doesnt quite show us what the ds is capable of, the new characters are fun but 
 often times make the game easier than it should be (Im talking to you luigi!) , but it still retains 
 many classic moment and the min games are a welcome addition (though multiplayer loses its zest 
 after a while) . 
  
  though not the classic I was hoping for, it is still a good game and deserves a play through for 
 any mario fan, just dont expect the same thrills, if you want that you might as well dust off the 
 N64 and play the REAL tick tock clock. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: qwertyville
Rating: 7.3
Date: Mar 1, 2006 8:16 am PT
Review:  One of the reasons why Mario 64 was so good and so successful, was not just because of the game 
 world, the intricate and immense amount of secrets and quirks to be discovered, but because of 
 the complete melding of controller and action. The N64 controller was designed around this game, 
 it was designed to bring the 3D world into eventual realisation after considerable noodling around 
 with the first slew of PS1 games, this was the game that made everyone realise how full and deep 
 a 3D experience could be. This game succeeded in not only being a stand alone classic but allowing 
 thousands of people to come to grips with three dimensional control, the control stick was as much 
 a character in this game as Mario was, same goes for the C-Buttons. Now when you strip away that 
 controller and replace it with a D-Pad, you are surely in for some trouble, and it pains me to 
 say that despite the best efforts of Nintendo's Dev Teams, this remains a butchered classic. It 
 still works to a certain extent, the D-Pad is *FINE*, but nowhere near the level of intuitive movement 
 that the N64 pad allowed, and as a result mars an otherwise stellar port. 
  
  There are many extras and secrets that would make the staunchest mario-phile drool with anticipation 
 with claiming all those extra stars and using the additional characters.. but unfortunately you 
 are never allowed to fully relax and enjoy what should be by all rights a gloried return to the 
 promise land for the Kyoto giant, the lack of a proper control option in the end reduces this game 
 to merely good, when it should have reached above and beyond the perfection laid down by it's trailblazing 
 grandfather. 
  Perhaps a Director's Cut edition on Revolution would allow us to enjoy this title to it's fullest 
 potential, which is most certainly limitless. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Zaxex
Rating: 9.9
Date: Feb 28, 2006 11:33 pm PT
Review:  Super Mario 64 ds is an excellent adventure game which is a re-make of the classic super mario 
 64. THe game is fundamentally the same with but a few diferences.
  
  Such as, throughout the game instead of just being Mario, you can play as Yoshi, Wario and luigi 
 as well as Mario, each having unique abilities that you'll need on certain levels.
  
  There are also over 30 mini-games that make the best out of the touch-screen. You unlock them through 
 the game by capturing rabbits, it's sort of challenging to catch them but not hard. The games use 
 excellent physics and can be just as fun as the game itself.
  
  The other main difference is that they've (Nintendo) have added 30 levels to the game so it'll 
 take longer to complete. It's also one of the only games where the handheld version has better 
 graphics then the console equivilent. 
  
  The worlds int he game are vibrant colourful and there are loads of different things you must accomplish 
 throughout them. The controls are easy to use even without an analouge stick and jumping to ledges 
 is easy to do. Nintendo didn't miss anything out though as they added a way of walking or running 
 with the touch screen, it's fun to use but instead of being able to press at the top and your character 
 going forward, he'll soon stop or youll keep having to move your thumb back down as the area you 
 press drags with you. It's commonly preffered to use the d-pad rather then the touch screen.
  
  The game has great graphics, the best seen on the ds; excellent gameplay, vibrant levels, great 
 physics, awesome mini-games and more.
  
  It's simply an excellent game.
  
  I'd say this and the other Mario title (Mario Kart DS) compete for the best ds game.
  
  Like 
 the Original, adventurers, other mario games or even own a ds? Get this game! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: chilihead7
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 27, 2006 8:00 pm PT
Review:  This game was the first one i bought for my DS, and was instantly satisfied with great nostolgia. 
 In my mind, i had a glimpse back to SM64, and just how great it was. This game has everything plus 
 mroe that the opriginal does. If you ask me, this game is essential for the DS. It has new levels, 
 new characters you can be, new bosses, new power attacks, new everything! I had a better time beating 
 this one than the original. Oh yeah, the graphics look totally revamped on the DS from the 64, 
 and you can really tell if you compare the two right next to eachother. Trust me, if you want a 
 great platformer, or just a great game period, this one is worth all the price! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: salleendude
Rating: 9.6
Date: Feb 27, 2006 3:46 pm PT
Review:  A really great game. Super Mario 64 DS is sweet. The graphics are some of the best I have seen 
 on the ds. The game has a fairly long game play and so many features you will not get bored. The 
 mini-games are fun and addicting. The levels are interesting, fun, and have a great replay value. 
 Youll find yourself playing the levels over and over again. The dialogue in the game, like most 
 Mario games is quite comical. I have played many Mario games and this is definitely one of the 
 best. I strongly recommend buying this game. Youll just love it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: CodingGenius
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 26, 2006 9:46 pm PT
Review:  Just bought this game to play with my new DS. The original 64 version made me nauseous (from the 
 graphics) , so I stopped playing it after a few weeks.
  
  This game is a lot of fun. You start playing as Yoshi, and must rescue other characters throughout 
 the game (including Mario) who then become playable. The levels are very well-rendered, and feature 
 the fun characters that have made Nintendo famous (Princess Peach, Toad, etc.)
  
  As well as a slightly revamped Mario 64, the game also includes several unlockabl mini-games that 
 are a lot of fun. Making ample use of the touch screen, these games are quick and fun time wasters 
 that I've actually spent as much time playing as Mario64 DS itself!
  
  All in all, unless you really hated Mario 64 or dislike platformers, this is a good game. For any 
 fans of Nintendo's Mario games, this is a must own. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Fated_Eclipse
Rating: 9.3
Date: Feb 24, 2006 4:18 pm PT
Review:  Super Mario 64 DS is a great re-release of an already great game, but don't think you will be playing 
 the same old N64 game from before, there are lots of new additions.
  One of the most noticable additions is the three new characters. You will be able to play as Mario 
 (of course) , as well as Yoshi, Luigi, and Wario. Now playing as these different characters is more 
 than just for show. Each character has special abilities, and some of the stars in the levels can 
 only be acquired by using a certain character. For example, Wario is known to be strong, so he 
 can break things that the other characters can't. 
  Another addition is that instead of the old 120 stars for 100% completion, it is now 150 (I think... it 
 has been a while since I played this one) . There are some new stars in the levels, as well as some 
 newely hidden ones. Veterans of the game will still have their work cut out for them if they want 
 100% completion. Even if you remember where the original 120 stars are, you still have 30 new ones 
 to find, which is a fun challenge.
  Fans of the N64 version will not be disappointed, as it is almost exactly like you are playing 
 the old N64 version, only it is now handheld and can go with you wherever you go.
  A great DS title, especially if you were a fan of the old N64 version. If you own a DS this is 
 a great title to pick up. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ComicalGamer
Rating: 7.1
Date: Feb 24, 2006 7:24 am PT
Review:  At first when i got this game, i had mixed reactions, because i preferred AC WW (i was right) the 
 part i dont like about this, is that its almost practically the N64 to DS conversion, only new 
 characters, and a tiny new story mode, the mini games are quite fun, but sill the touch screen 
 with mario, wasnt that impressive to put on; i mean, you can only move yoshi, luigi, mario, and 
 wario with the stylus, but only movement is accesible in this game... The thing that annoyed me 
 was the levels, and many life power meter you have... i died quickly, also there are some glitches, 
 such as lets say youre gonna die because you have one space on your meter, well just go in the 
 water adnd dive for 1 second then go back up, and it will restore your power meter, thats just, 
 well easy to beat levels, i didnt use it because im not a cheat player type of guy, the multiplayer 
 is quite fun, ill be honest, but no matter, that the value is not so good, my friend sold it in 
 about 2 days, im not dissapointed nor happy with this, lets just say im happy i collected this... 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: woohooforme
Rating: 8.8
Date: Feb 24, 2006 2:14 am PT
Review:  One of the best games of last-generation -- no -- of ALL time, has been remade and put on two itty 
 bitty screens for maximum portability. Though it doesn't quite match up to the original, it's still 
 a very great game worth ANY DS owners time.
  
  Gameplay: You, are Yoshi; sleeping on top of the castle roof all peace and snuggly, when... the 
 screen fades out and you're suddenly on the ground where the first game kicked off. So basically 
 you have to go find Mario as Yoshi, and that's how the whole "Bowser-took-the-princess" thing starts. 
 You can play as four characters, the already stated Yoshi and Mario, and also Luigi and Wario. 
 Though these new characters are a nice touch, and add up for some new glitches to be found because 
 of their special moves, they do seem like they were just thrown in there for the heck of it, with 
 two or three special missions for the extra characters. As in any platformer, you platform... jump 
 on things. Don't get me wrong! It's a very engaging activity I guess you could say. Story mode 
 (Well, 'Adventure') shouldn't take you but about maybe 15 hours to complete if you've already played 
 through the first one. But these are some pretty sweet hours. The controls for the touch screen 
 are nice, if a bit hard to control at first. The D-Pad? Though excruciatingly painful to use, you 
 get used to it if it's all you use, like me. Because of the hard controls, you do find yourself 
 dying more than you'd like to, but I guess this adds the challenge that the original game had 10 
 years ago. Also thrown in the mix are a slew of mini-games which are excellent time killers for 
 those sudden slumps of boredom in your life.
  
  Graphics: Greatly updated from the original, though when COMPARED to the original, it's easy to 
 see why. Take a few jumps around in the original, takes a lot longer to get from point A to point 
 B than in the DS version. That's because all of the maps have been "shrinked down" so to speak. 
 Though nothing outstanding about the graphics, they are pretty solid.
  
  Sound: It's-a-me! Mario! ... doo doo doo, doo doo DOO. Well they changed it in a different order 
 this time, but eh. Sound is also pretty solid here. All the catchy tones and thwomps and bops and 
 kerplacks and smacks thwacks boings and smashes are all in-tact here. The only real difference 
 I noticed between the sound of the original and this game, is that Bowser's laugh, when you die, 
 is cut off early... weird.
  
  Value: Good game, definitely worth any DS owners time and money, even if you have played the original. 
 I really is a marvel.
  
  Tilt: If you pay attention to the boards like I do, you'll know there are a lot of complicated 
 glitches out there just WAITING to be discovered! This makes wanting to play this game over and 
 over and over very easy. If glitches aren't your forte, then don't fret, though the world isn't 
 as vast as the original, exploring this world and it's many wonders... it's just a thrill all in 
 itself.
  
  You may have noticed I keep comparing this to the original. Well, that's because, Super Mario 64 
 is my favorite game of ALL time, and this game just goes and adds a fresh layer of paint on that 
 series. This is a great game, highly recommended by me, and I'm sure many other people here.
  
  Score: 8.8/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: simpsons1fan
Rating: 9.4
Date: Feb 23, 2006 6:25 pm PT
Review:  Ok it was a good gam. It had good gameplay, good graphics and sound, just good. But the reason 
 i didnt rate it as high as i should of is the controls. They just plain out stink. It is so hard 
 to keep on ledges, and land in the right places. The screen is always backwards so you always go 
 backwards and... So i give it 7.3 out of 10 if i took out the controls rating id give it a 9.4. 
 so yea i mean you should pick it up but dont get your hepoes up way to high or you will be a bit 
 let down. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ghangiskhan1
Rating: 8.6
Date: Feb 23, 2006 8:05 am PT
Review:  Super Mario 64 DS:
  
  Super Mario 64 DS is a remake of the Nintendo 64 hit Super Mario 64, brought onto the Nintendo 
 DS. It sure had a great translation, because Super Mario 64 sitll remains one of the best games 
 ever, and is just as good on the Nintendo DS, except for a few issues.
  
  This is not just a game being ported, stuff has been added! 30 new stars to get are out there, 
 along with new rooms and levels in the castle. There is a variety of minigames to play too, whihc 
 can be played in single or multiplayer. The main thing people think is, "We played this game ten 
 years ago... is it still good?" Well I'll tell you that you'll have just about as much fun as you 
 did when you first played Super Mario 64 on Christmas morning. But every game has its flaws so 
 I'll tell you about 64 DS's. First off, the control scheme. You have the choice of using the D-Pad 
 , or the touch screen. Both seem really awkward because it's a 3D game meaning it should have an 
 analog stick. You'll eventually grow past these problems, but they can be a real pain and can be 
 real frustrating in the beginning of the game. But other than those flaws, the game is superbly 
 fun to play.
  
  The graphics may not be up to par with games on the PSP, but they are better than they looked in 
 the screenshots. In the screenshots they looked blocky to me, but when I played the game, Mario 
 moved at a smooth framerate, along with everything else that moves in the game. The environments 
 are just as detailed as they were ten years ago on Nintendo 64 and they look a lot better compared 
 to Gameboy Advance graphics. Mario is a little bit blocky, but it really does not prove to be much 
 of a problem. The music is also awesome. It sounds just as clear, maybe even clearer than before 
 which is really good for a handheld system. The SFX is great too, like the birds chirping, etc. 
 But there is still little voice acting.
  
  Verdict: It's just about as fun as it was before, and it's the best DS launch title, so I strongly 
 suggest this game to a Mario fan or not.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: alchemist007
Rating: 8.8
Date: Feb 22, 2006 6:53 pm PT
Review:  Best Ds game, as well as the best remake of any game out today! 
  I never really played the old version for the N64 very deeply. I knew it was a great game, but 
 just never had the time. I decided to pick up the remake of it for the Nintendo DS. I was really 
 surprised when I played it for the first time. The graphics were amazing! I thought it was pretty 
 creative starting out as Yoshi instead of Mario like in the old version. As I said, I never had 
 played the N64 version that much, but I basically knew what the overall gameplay was like. Overall, 
 I thought the remake was the greatest remake of all time for ANY system. A lot of people I know 
 think the game has bad controls. But i completely disagree, I thought that they were REALLY easy 
 to get used to. Basically the whole game was enjoyable and easy to get used to. There were about 
 150 level goals, which were all really fun. Bosses were pretty easy, but very creative. During 
 the game, you can unlock Mario, Luigi, and Wario. There are also a few hidden extra characters 
 which make you feel pretty good after you unlock them. If you havn't got it already, or are thinking 
 about getting it... take my BEST advice and BUY it! The game is only $30 new. ($5 less than other 
 new DS games.) So add it to your collection if you havn't already. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: KratosFanEbay
Rating: 8.7
Date: Feb 22, 2006 6:28 pm PT
Review:  Super Mario 64 DS was one of the top five most talked about titles on Nintendo's N64, and that 
 too was a launch title. This same game is back and has new challenges and characters for you to 
 play with. The same excellent game play is back, but I think that the touch screen was not used 
 to its full potential. The graphics are directly ported onto the DS, which reminds you all the 
 fun times that you had playing it. This also has added mini-games which are equally as fun as the 
 ones in Wario Ware Touched. One problem with this game is the thought of all ready beating this 
 game once, and there are no new innovation in the game play. Even though, this is not a game to 
 be missed by anyone owning a DS. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Zombie_Soldier
Rating: 9.2
Date: Feb 22, 2006 4:27 pm PT
Review:  He's had an occasional bad game, but this time around Super Mario has done it again!
  
  Gameplay: Originally for the Nintendo 64, Super Mario 64 was released again for the Nintendo DS 
 handheld system around 9 years after its original release, and the gamplay is great like the original. 
 The game rolled smoothly and the controls were simple. My only complaint was that the touch screen 
 didn't make up for the analog control like in the original. I liked the new mini-games, they really 
 took advantage of the touch screen features. Probably the best thing about the gameplay was how 
 you got to play as Yoshi, Luigi and Wario who have their own moves that differ from Mario's.
  
  Graphics: The graphics are basically the same as the N64 version. They look a bit better however 
 because of the smaller screen size. Another thing I noticed that was hard to tell was that Mario 
 looked a bit different. He had a smaller nose and just looks a bit different, but I really didn't 
 care. 
  
  Sound: The sound was okay, but the music for each course got a little bit annoying at times. It 
 was bearable, but it just made you get more frustrated when you got hurt by a Goomba or something 
 else. Although there was only actual voice acting by Peach, I liked the noises that the character's 
 made. Like Yoshi's little grunting noise, or Mario's cheer, etc...
  
  Value: This game keeps you occupied for a very long time especially with even more stars to collect. 
 It took me long enough to get 80 stars nevermind 150 stars. The game is definately useful for long 
 trips.
  
  Overall this game is one of the great DS titles out there. It's amazing how such an excellent N64 
 game can make it to a handheld and still be just as fun. If you have a DS then be sure to check 
 out this old-school classic!
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Star67
Rating: 9.1
Date: Feb 20, 2006 2:15 pm PT
Review:  I remember my old n64, its broken now, I almost cried when it broke. And I looked at super Mario 
 64 and thought i would never play it again. Thank God I was wrong! I am so glad they brought this 
 game back! The first thing I love is being able to play more than one character! Like Yoshi! Second, 
 they brought back the old sound track! Which is still just as great as when i first heard it! Graphics 
 for the most part are nice and smooth, but i did encounter a few jaggy areas. The great gameplay 
 is all there and so are the old levels. This is a must buy for the DS. But sadly the touch screen 
 shouldn't be used, its just too hard to control anything with it. Just do me a favor BUY THIS GAME! 
 You will not be disappointed. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: doctorecs
Rating: 7
Date: Feb 19, 2006 5:23 pm PT
Review:  This game is fun and it has just right amount of gameplay time i beat it in a week but i owned 
 hte game and i knew where all the stars where even the secret ones. I love the minigames like lottery 
 and my personal favorite poker! This game is good for peaple who mostley dont own the game but it 
 can be fun for people who own the classic anyway i like this game even though i have the old one! Also 
 the graphics are amazing! But the one thing i hated was when you fall off a platform there are no 
 checkpoints so you have to start the level over it iss eraly anowing! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: REVOLUTIONfreak
Rating: 8.8
Date: Feb 19, 2006 2:51 pm PT
Review:  Although this game has been out for around 9 or 10 years (wow, its been that long?) , this game 
 still greatly lives up to the original copy of the game.
  The overall gameplay for this game could not possibly be done better. If your an oldschool Mario 
 fan you will be greatly pleased with the similar way of stomping on goombas, bob-ombs, and other 
 classic enemies of the Mushroom Kingdom. Besides the classic gameplay resources however, there 
 are a variety of satisfying new moves including my personal favorite the Triple Jump. In addition 
 to the sole character originally placed in the N64 version (aka mario) , there are 3 new playable 
 character including Wario, Luigi, and Yoshi. Each of the characters have their own special set 
 of moves and other abilities that differ from Mario's. I must say though, of the few additions 
 set to the original game, the minigames are among one of my favorite part's to the game. The innovative 
 minigames set to use the touch screen are actually quite enjoyable to play. These minigames take 
 up 99.9% of this games replay value, and i do mean that literally.
  The graphics in this game are beyond remarkable for a handheld. The game actually, in my opinion, 
 cleans up even better on this system compared to the N64. The clean polygonal 3D graphics and the 
 bright attractive colors in the game are easily eye candy for maio fans and DS owners alike.
  The sound in this game is both classic and new from 2D super mario games. You will hear simple 
 old school mario music, and somewhat "remix" music as well. It isnt the big selling point for the 
 game, but the music does have tunes that stick in your mind for awhile.
  
  Overall, if your a big mario fan, and you have just gotten a DS, this is the game for you. This 
 game by far has the best graphics so far for the DS, and is a great pick up and play anytime kind 
 of game. The controls in the game arent quite the same without analog, but it certainly doesnt 
 hinder the game too much. It is still the great Super Mario game it was 10 years ago, but now with 
 much more to offer on the Nintendo DS. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: YANNIK92
Rating: 9.1
Date: Feb 18, 2006 1:27 pm PT
Review:  This game has just enough to make it more challenging for old gamers and a more interesting, longer 
 game for new ones. I have the old version and I DO have fun playing this game because it isn't 
 just a remake for the ds, but a totally new game with a certain similarity with the original. The 
 mini-games are great when you're tired collecting golden stars and the different characters give 
 the game more variety and challenge since they all have perticular abilities and strenghs. The 
 movie at the beginning is nice too and starting as Yoshi changes from the old storyline. 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: gstonyr
Rating: 9.3
Date: Mar 29, 2006 11:17 am PT
Review:  super Mario 64 DS is a classic Mario game. the game is so long and hard that it takes at least 
 30 hours straight to beat it. the game is a nice mixture of the original super Mario, and new technology. 
 the game has heart. the Graphics are one of the best that the Nintendo DS has to offer. how ever 
 the game has no multiplier mode witch makes it get dom after a while. If you are a Mario fan this 
 is one game you must have. for only $30 you will probable play this game for 40 hours. it's very 
 good value. A MUST HAVE GAME. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: troglodyte100
Rating: 9.2
Date: Feb 17, 2006 6:53 pm PT
Review:  Back in 1996, Super Mario 64 was released for the Nintendo 64. It was an instant hit, revolutionizing 
 3D graphics, and bringing everone's favorite plumber to the new system and true 3D graphics for 
 the first time. I played the game a little later, and loved it. I remember finding it eerily lonely... a 
 bit odd sounding but true if you think about it. Anyways, this game does practically the same thing, 
 only on the DS, with its limitations, new elements, and the lonely sensation gone. Why is it gone, 
 you ask? Because...
  
  THERE'S WARIO! Luigi and Yoshi are there to boot as well! Each has different powers and stats, 
 making the game completely new. For the challenge seekers, the game is the same difficulty, perhaps 
 easier, but they have 30 new stars to seek, 3 new bosses, many new stages, and minigames and multiplayer 
 to master. If the original game basis is a third of the fun, and the new characters are another 
 third, the minigames are definately the last third. They are short and sometimes dull, but are 
 still very fun and good uses of the Touch Screen.
  
  Every game has its cons, unfortunately, and here we come to this one's. The graphics sometimes 
 have blurring pixels, and each character has no facial animations. The multiplayer stands a bit 
 weak, and you find yourself bored of it after playing each stage 3 or 4 times. Now, to relieve 
 the cons of their impact, more random pros:
  - touching end sequence worth getting to
  - much improved Bowser graphics
  - Toads are more prominent, some even preferring certain characters
 
  
  As you can probably see, Super Mario 64 DS is a great game, well worth buying, and the multiplayer 
 is practically the only thing to improve on. There are plenty of new things to do, and if you play 
 this game, Mario and I will "a-thank you." 
::::::

::::::
UserName: big_tom_2k6
Rating: 9.3
Date: Feb 17, 2006 11:54 am PT
Review:  this is so far one of the best ds games yet it is extremely fun its one of nintendos best games 
 yet has great graphics even better than when it was out for nintendo 64 with over 4 characters 
 to chose handfuls of levels with beautiful gameplay which could last you a long time. This is the 
 ideal game to take on a journey with you and if you have completed it then there is still bundles 
 of fun to do like run and catch rabbits and redo levels and then if its too easy there is always 
 the mimigames which are extremley addictive it could even raise your granny of her feet 
::::::

::::::
UserName: youngmurk911
Rating: 9.4
Date: Feb 15, 2006 5:09 am PT
Review:  Stating that this is one of my favorites games of all time, they did an outstanding job on updating 
 this game. outstanding. The only problem with this game is that there is no analog, and thats messed 
 up when you get in certain situations. If you played the original version on 64 which I know most 
 of you have, you'll know exactly what I'm talking about. The graphics look smoother and a bit crisper 
 on the ds than the 64. They added more 3 new playable characters in Wario, Luigi, and Yoshi. By 
 them doing that it adds a little more strategy in game, in actuality there is no best player in 
 the game. All of they're abilitys is needed. Basically your forced to use everyone in each board, 
 this a classic game, the only problem is there is no analog when its very much needed in certain 
 situations. Other than that this one of the best well rounded adventure games you will get to date. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: crypto-236
Rating: 9.4
Date: Feb 14, 2006 5:49 am PT
Review:  If you haven't played the original on the N64 then this is a must have title. If you have then 
 it is still okay but don't expect much new stuff.
  
  The game sees you playing as four characters from the Mario world: Mario, Luigi, Wario and Yoshi. 
 Don't ask me why Wario has gone good but lets assume that he wants peach for himself. These new 
 characters add a little variety and more thought into how you play. But they are basically versions 
 of Mario from the original game, Wario can turn metal and Luigi can go invisible so Mario can do 
 less.
  You play inside Peaches castle, which is basically your HUB world. From there you must jump into 
 paintings which will transport you to different lands (a volcano, desert, fortress, sunken ship 
 etc.  for more on gameplay check my N64 version review) The graphics don't disappoint and they 
 are an upgraded version of the N64, the scenery is clearer and the character models are much better, 
 the first time you see Bowser and you will see what I mean. The mini games are also excellent and 
 show what the DS can do
  
  Gameplay-harder due to a lack of 3Dstick but I am left handed so I use my left hand to hold the 
 stylus and control, this works well but right-handers cannot do this and it still isnt as good 
 as a stick
  
  Graphics- very good and a definite improvement. Cleaner, clearer and the character models are GREAT
 
  
  Sound- same tunes but great with headphones
  
  Value-it is a long game and the minigames are BRILLIANT. Shame the multiplayer is a bit flat 
 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Nintendokid891
Rating: 9.3
Date: Feb 14, 2006 5:05 am PT
Review:  What an Amazing Game! Mario 64 DS is a wonderful game. Very easy to master. Controls are a little 
 odd, but you get use to it.
  Any way heres my Review:
  
  GAMEPLAY- The gameplay is awsome. Like i said a very easy game for the most part. Its got a great 
 story and the new twist with Luigi, Wario, and Yoshi makes it even better.
  
  9 out of 10
  
  GRAPHICS- The graphics are great FOR THE DS. The graphics on Mario 64 DS are 
 the best graphics i have seen on any DS game.
  9 out of 10
  
  SOUND- The is good. No music really, just the sound effects of mario walking, yelling, jumping, 
 getting hurt ect.
  7 out of 10
  
  LEARNING CURVE- This game is easy to learn (15 to 30 min) . The controls is the only thing you have 
 to get used to, but overall the learning curve isn't that long.
  
  15 To 30 Minutes
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: ericcartman3722
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 12, 2006 5:25 pm PT
Review:  I never really played the old version for the N64 very deeply. I knew it was a great game, but 
 just never had the time. I decided to pick up the remake of it for the Nintendo DS. I was really 
 surprised when I played it for the first time. The graphics were amazing! I thought it was pretty 
 creative starting out as Yoshi instead of Mario like in the old version. As I said, I never had 
 played the N64 version that much, but I basically knew what the overall gameplay was like. Overall, 
 I thought the remake was the greatest remake of all time for ANY system. A lot of people I know 
 think the game has bad controls. But i completely disagree, I thought that they were REALLY easy 
 to get used to. Basically the whole game was enjoyable and easy to get used to. There were about 
 150 level goals, which were all really fun. Bosses were pretty easy, but very creative. During 
 the game, you can unlock Mario, Luigi, and Wario. There are also a few hidden extra characters 
 which make you feel pretty good after you unlock them. If you havn't got it already, or are thinking 
 about getting it... take my BEST advice and BUY it! The game is only $30 new. ($5 less than other 
 new DS games.) So add it to your collection if you havn't already. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ytdhjnfgbvfjvgd
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 12, 2006 10:24 am PT
Review:  The story is about Mario, Luigi, and Wario went to Peach's castle but didn't came out and Yoshi 
 went in Peach's castle because he wanted to know what happened to Mario, Luigi, and Wario. Later 
 on in the game you can play Mario, Luigi, and Wario. The story is really fun. But story is not 
 everything there is also a multiplayer mode which is basically about each player getting the star 
 in each area you can eliminate other players too. It is kinda like this each player starts out 
 like Yoshi and later on you can change to Mario, Luigi, or Yoshi and like I said you can eliminate 
 players and the goal is to get stars from each area. I say buy this game it is really really fun 
 to play! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Fire_Fly
Rating: 8.4
Date: Feb 12, 2006 8:48 am PT
Review:  If you haven't played the original on the N64 then this is a must have title. If you have then 
 it is still okay but don't expect much new stuff.
  
  The game sees you playing as four characters from the Mario world: Mario, Luigi, Wario and Yoshi. 
 Don't ask me why Wario has gone good but lets assume that he wants peach for himself. These new 
 characters add a little variety and more thought into how you play. But they are basically versions 
 of Mario from the original game, Wario can turn metal and Luigi can go invisible so Mario can do 
 less.
  You play inside Peaches castle, which is basically your HUB world. From there you must jump into 
 paintings which will transport you to different lands (a volcano, desert, fortress, sunken ship 
 etc.  for more on gameplay check my N64 version review) The graphics don't disappoint and they 
 are an upgraded version of the N64, the scenery is clearer and the character models are much better, 
 the first time you see Bowser and you will see what I mean. The mini games are also excellent and 
 show what the DS can do
  
  Gameplay-harder due to a lack of 3Dstick but I am left handed so I use my left hand to hold the 
 stylus and control, this works well but right-handers cannot do this and it still isnt as good 
 as a stick
  
  Graphics- very good and a definite improvement. Cleaner, clearer and the character models are GREAT
 
  
  Sound- same tunes but great with headphones
  
  Value-it is a long game and the minigames are BRILLIANT. Shame the multiplayer is a bit flat 
::::::

::::::
UserName: movin_target
Rating: 9.4
Date: Feb 11, 2006 4:33 pm PT
Review:  It's a good remake of the orginal! You finally get to play as luigi in the game! There are 150 
 in the game and the gameplay is similer to the orgianal the graphics hold up to the ornginal even 
 there is increased graphics! Some of the down sides are that it seems easier then the original 
 (still havent beat the original) Even thogh you get more charecters it kinda sucks that you cant 
 use the wall jump for every charecter and you cant get the same powers that you do in the first 
 one for all the chrecters. But even after you beat it you can still look forward to some glitches 
 and the mini games.
  
  I hope you enjoyed my review! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: UltimateDoom400
Rating: 9.6
Date: Feb 11, 2006 2:40 pm PT
Review:  I hate the plot of Mario. He is a fat plumber in a world of mushrooms!!!! Who likes that garbage? 
 Normaly, not me. When I was 2, my neighbor let me go to his house to watch him play SM64. It was 
 a great game!!!! Years later, the DS comes out along with...... SM64DS!!!!!! I wet my pants with 
 joy!!! I could be Luigi, Mario, Yoshi, AND Wario!!!!!! The bosses rule, there are 150 levels, and 
 it never gets old between bosses and castle secrets!!!! I LOVE IT!!!! Easily my favorite DS game. 
 Sorry Sonic, my old chum! Youre a close second! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: the_cajun88
Rating: 9.8
Date: Feb 11, 2006 1:44 pm PT
Review:  Hmmm. Super Mario 64 DS, how do I start? This game speaks for itself, only this time, Mario's not 
 alone. He is joined by Yoshi, Luigi, and Wario. I have been hearing rumors that Waluigi is in this 
 game, but those rumors are false. Do not, I repeat, Do not listen to them. Anyway, In the DS version 
 of the classic N64 game, Mario finds himself once again trying to rescue the clumsy yet attractive 
 Princess Peach from everyone's favorite spike-shelled, scaly, fire-breathing monster Bowser. Another 
 new feature in this game are what I like to call 'exclusive stars.' These are stars that only a 
 certain character can obtain. I like how the game dosen't force you to use the stylus/touch screen 
 to play, you can just use the D-pad and buttons if you want to. This game is an absolute joy to 
 own, and if I hadn't broken my DS, I would be playing it right now. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mystic_Flames
Rating: 8
Date: Feb 10, 2006 10:37 am PT
Review:  Starting from the top, everyone who is anyone obviously knows about Mario. The tubby, yet extremely 
 agile plumber has made his essence known throughout the platform world. With the coming of the 
 DS, the first ever 3D Mario game from eight years ago has resurfaced. At first, I did not think 
 that they would be able to port something so magnificent to a mere portable system. However, I 
 greatly underestimated the DS. Super Mario 64 DS takes everything I loved about the original and 
 compliments it with new features and modes. All which take root, thanks to the exciting and fresh 
 ideas from Nintendos new dual screen masterpiece.
  
  You have all probably played through this game once before, so you are most likely familiar with 
 the plot. However, this time there is a slight twist at the beginning of the adventure. Once again 
 the sexy Princess Peach has invited Mario to her castle for cake, however, for some strange reason 
 Wario and Luigi show up as well. Who the hell invited them? Anyway, three go in and none come out, 
 and the responsibility for a little investigation falls upon Yoshi. The goal, however, is the same 
 yet again. Rescue your fellow teammates, grab every star in the entire game, and rescue Peach, 
 hoping that she is not in another castle. 
  
  As before, your primary goal is completing every stage in each world, by way of objective missions. 
 There are now seven stars to grab in each level, as well as new items to help compliment the new 
 arrivals. The first of such are the character hats that you will probably find in your first venture 
 into the Bob-omb world. Grabbing the head gear will allow you to take on the form of that character, 
 until you eventually unlock them from their prisons. Mario, as always, is well rounded in every 
 aspect, and can turn into a hilarious blimp with the use of the new power flowers. Luigi is extremely 
 agile and can jump the highest of all. Certainly a trait you will take advantage of in many situations. 
 Wario is sluggish yet strong and Yoshi's egg and tongue attacks make him the best offensive contender. 
 Other flower power attributes include Luigis invisibility, Warios metallic structure, and Yoshis 
 ability to finally turn into a menacing fire-breathing dragon. Well, he is still cute when he does 
 it, but at least he is trying. These two spoils are among the first of many changes and you will 
 have no trouble playing I Spy to see what else has been altered.
  
  What has changed the most sadly is the control setup. The lack of an analog stick really got me 
 down; as I was sure I would not be able to do the unique moves I could before. Thankfully the impossible 
 is still possible with the control pad, but it will take a lot of work to learn the curve. The 
 hardest one to overcome was using the directional pad and Y button to run. Using this together 
 to try to do the classic long jump or a wall kick is definitely a hardship to bypass, probably 
 more-so than getting every star put together. The stylus is also an option, but in my opinion, 
 it just makes things more difficult. The execution of the movement is precise though, and as soon 
 as you tap B, Mario will be doing that crazy triple jump with ease. Getting to the point, it is 
 not totally abysmal as some have labeled it, and with a little bit of time, it can be mastered.
 
  
  From my mentioning of the stylus movement earlier, comes the factor of the second screen. Besides 
 movement; you have an extremely accessible map, option selection, and even the ability to change 
 the camera of both screens. I am so overwhelmed that I can finally say the camera is flawless. 
 Flawless, flawless, flawless. Sorry, but you try playing through a series of games, all let down 
 by the same damn thing, and not be excited when something good comes along. However, it seemed 
 that Nintendo, once again, was trying to aim more towards children with this version. From this, 
 comes the incredibly over-helpfulness of the map. Despite its obvious ability to tell you, You 
 are here like you see at your local mall, it will also point out item location. While some are 
 great to have pointed out like the hats, certain doodads such as: red coins, objective items, and 
 sometimes even stars make the game-play a bit too simple. Maybe it is just me, but being a fan 
 of exploration, I generally do not care being told where to go. Anyway, it is not apparent in every 
 level, and sometimes you will not even notice it all. Hey, it is the first screen you are viewing 
 the most right?
  
  Despite some minor changes for the worse, the tilt will always be on the positive side if you played 
 the hell out of the 64 bit version. Some loved the idea of going on a scavenger hunt, looking for 
 every item available. Some loathed the idea and thought the series took a turn for the worst when 
 it first arrived. If you are one of those people, I still urge you to play, simply for the new 
 mini-games. Now what may appear as a gimmick is actually one of the most replay-able features you 
 will have. Aside from pulling on Mario or Yoshis face with the stylus (which is incredibly fun 
 by the way) , are a plethora of games that are incredibly innovative. Taking use of the second screen, 
 you will be launching sling-shots at bombs, rolling a snow-ball across obstacles, and even playing 
 cards at the casino. There are so many variations of things to do, that you will want to continue 
 playing the adventure to keep unlocking them. Thats right, you keep getting new games as you progress, 
 and so great things come to those who wait.
  
  To some visuals may not be an essential mention, but in this case I need to make an exception. 
 First it is obvious, that for a hand-held, it greatly exceeds my expectations. The character models 
 have been straightened out, the pre-rendered environments are enjoyably quaint, and Bowser finally 
 doesnt look like an overgrown dog anymore. Without the Nintendo 64s aliasing, some mountain structures 
 look a little over-pixilated, and the water effects could have been improved upon. It has its faults, 
 but for what it accomplishes it, without a doubt, makes it all the more satisfactory. Now complimenting 
 the traditional graphics is the superb sound quality, which really brings back those memories. 
 I, for one, vote Super Mario 64 as having one of the greatest soundtracks on any system, period. 
 All the mellowness of Jolly Roger Bay and haunting sounds of Big Boos Haunt have returned and 
 sound better than ever. Gone is the outdated MIDI, replaced with the DSs excellent stereo-surround 
 quality. Though something usually ignored, it is the wonderfully rendered atmosphere that ties 
 the game together, even better so than eight years ago.
  
  Call it a port, a rehash, or even terrible if you did not like the 64-bit Mario, but before you 
 make the call, at least play it. Fans of the series will be glad to know, the transfer to the new 
 system was a great success. And with brand new characters, challenging new stages, additional mini-games, 
 and just the fact that it is portable, it is definitely the game and system to get this season. 
 There are some offbeat moments, with the mixed visuals and difficult control setup, but everything 
 gets better with time. Mario has always been a part of gaming that has not gotten old, unlike continual 
 rehashes of Mega Man or Final Fantasy, and I can safely say nothing has changed. As follows, this 
 game definitely gets a full recommendation -- because I am just a sucker for nostalgia. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gamesomighty
Rating: 6.7
Date: Feb 9, 2006 1:13 pm PT
Review:  I beat this game in like 2 days. Really. I did this easily. And maybe you can do that too if you 
 played it for a while. I have not played the original in a long time, and to the review.
  
  First of all, it's just the same game. Just with like 30 new extra stars and stuff, new characters 
 and powers. I really don't like the other character thing, even though it is nice to play as Luigi 
 though. :-) I liked it when you were just Mario doing the work, not playing as somebody else and 
 having to rescue him first. Controlling your character is even SO MORE DIFFICULT!!! Expect to die 
 by falling often if you are not extremely careful. 
   :- ( And also there is no control stick anyway and using the touch stylus is really hard to get 
 used to.
  
  Now to graphics the graphics are great, full 3D on a portable device, but not that great. Things 
 look a little blocky, and seem to move a little slower then the N64.
  
  Sound. Good, but not as good as the Nintendo 64.
  
  The value in this game are the mini games. 
 Yeah they are kinda entertaining for a while. And the new power ups, characters, and stars will 
 keep you up for a while, but you might just beat it in a week the most if you owned the original. 
 If you are new to Super Mario 64, just buy a N64 and the Super Mario 64 cartridge, which is way 
 cheaper than one single DS game. If you can't find either the Nintendo 64 or Super Mario 64 game 
 cartridge, I guess you can rent this and see if you like it or not. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Chedder-BoB
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 7, 2006 6:18 pm PT
Review:  One of the greatest gams ever made. It bings spice to the seris and is so fun its one of my fav 
 and probaly alot of others. A 8.4 is way to low go with my score. This is a classic so if u dont 
 agree i talk to reggie about it. Nintendo made a big leap with this game and it help the ds be what 
 it is today lets just take amount to pray to nintendo for such a great game. thx thx thx thx u 
 r the god in gaming heaven. thx thx thx thx mario mario mario mario mario mario mario mario mario 
 mario mario. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: uncle_cheddar
Rating: 10
Date: May 17, 2006 2:43 pm PT
Review:  It has some pretty wicked new features, like the multi characters, and I'm pretty sure there are 
 a couple new levels or missions, but I'm unsure. I liked how each character has a unique ability, 
 and you're able to switch between them in mid level, so as to use each of them to their full ability. 
 For anyone who has played the original, there aren't anymore red, yellow, or green boxes, there 
 are just one color, and what comes out depends on who you are playing as.
  
  The mini games are some of the best parts of the game, though I don't really like how you have 
 to catch the freaking rabbits to get them all (you'll understand when you get the game) . It's easy, 
 but it's dumb. They can keep you entertained long after you beat the game and get tired of the 
 missions. Though after a while, beating your own high scores can get pretty difficult. I know one 
 thing for sure, and that is that my touch screen is scratched to hell, because I was pushing so 
 hard and scraping the stylus across the screen, unaware of what I was doing. Whatever you do, don't 
 get TOO into the mini games.
  
  Even if you do beat Bowser, which you have to do three times, that doesn't mean you have beat the 
 game. There are 150 stars you have to collect. Most are found in the levels, others are found in 
 secret areas. 
  
  Overall, I'd rate the graphics as amazing (for an early DS game, that is) , the story as unoriginal 
 (but hell it's a remake so it doesn't really matter anyway) , gameplay as sweet, and addictability 
 as mediocre (even with the minigames, it loses it's appeal shortly after beating it) .
  
  In conclusion, I would highly suggest this to anyone who liked the original, or who are totally 
 into Mario games. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: RedPanther95
Rating: 7.8
Date: Feb 5, 2006 7:39 am PT
Review:  Super Mario 64 DS is a fun game with about 200 stars to get. You can play as Mario, Luigi, Wario 
 and Yoshi. This game is very similar to SUPER MARIO 64 (that will hurt the value of it) . The gameplay 
 of 64DS is very amazing. If you get bored grab some friends and do DS DOWNLOAD PLAY where everyone 
 is a Yoshi you can turn into one of BROS including Wario with caps. The graphics can knock down 
 some GCN games! AMAZING GRAPHICS for a handheld. THe sound isn't special with the usual MARIO music. 
 I like Mario but most Mario remakes are good but the gameplay of this game and 64 are the same.
 
  MY SCORE: 7.8 GOOD
  GOB NEWSLETTER (DS LANUCH SPECIAL) 9.0
  GoB Magazine 8.8 
::::::

::::::
UserName: magicdude117
Rating: 5.4
Date: Feb 4, 2006 7:58 pm PT
Review:  This was the first game I got for the DS, and at first I thought "oh boy! I can play the mario 
 game I used to have to go over to my neighbors to play!" 
  And at first, it was, but soon I realized the major flaws in the game. for instance, the control, 
 honestly, was so hard, it was the only challenging thing about the darn game! True, the graphics 
 have improved from its predecessor, but the camera angles are tough, the touch screen is not given 
 enough use. to make it fair, the touch screen can be used to move, but it just makes the controls 
 even harder. On the flip side, the story has improved, and you can now play as 4 different characters (Mario, 
 Luigi, Yoshi, and Wario) and each have different traits and abilities. Also, you start as good ol' 
 Yohi (who needs that Mario guy?) and must save mario, and as Mario save Luigi, and as Luigi save 
 wario. but once all characters are unlocked, and the final boss beaten, the game loses almost all 
 fun value. it was fun for a while, but after some time, it just drives you ABSOLUTELY CRAZY (sounds 
 a little like school) ! overall this game is fun for a quick ride to grandma's, but then the more 
 interesting games, with interesting stories, should be played. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: copilco
Rating: 9.6
Date: Feb 4, 2006 2:56 pm PT
Review:  I knew when I first bought the NDS just a month ago that this was the first game i'd buy. I loved 
 the original Mario 64, and this was no exception. There are a lot of changes in this game... for 
 instance, now the four characters (not only mario) are important in the game, they've added more 
 stars to find and more challenges like the minigames to discover.
  Even though i already finish the first game, this Mario doesn't wear out quickly, because it's 
 really balanced, the first stars are easy to get, while the last stars are more dificult and to 
 get them you need careful planning.
  Sometimes the graphics get distortioned like when you try to walk near a wall, but it doesn't occur 
 often. The controls are easy to understand, but the stylus pen is a little bit awkward to use in 
 the game. However the map on the touch screen is very handy, and you can turn the camera more even 
 if the button doesn't allow you to do so.
  Overall, this is a great game. Oh and don't forget the 3d graphics and the cool sounds that make 
 it superb.
  Way to go Nintendo! Because of games like these i didn't bought a PSP! :D
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: GaMa729
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jan 31, 2006 6:53 pm PT
Review:  This is a very good game but the original is a whole lot better. Learning how to play this game 
 is not hard at all. If you know how to play Super Mario 64 you should have no problem with 64 DS 
 but if you never played 64 version then you can be challeneged a little. The gameplay of this game 
 is very good it is the best part of this game. the graphics is good but to me i like the N64 graphics 
 better. the sound is good the value of the game is good which is to save Princess Peach. This game 
 is all good but not better than the original. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dawnnoob
Rating: 9.6
Date: Jan 30, 2006 3:24 pm PT
Review:  Super Mario 64 DS is a great, classic game , but with the cool mini games.
  
  The graphics in this game are great for a handheld, and the sound is as clear as any other game. 
 and playing, for hours . On top of that, there are extremely amusing mini games involving the touch 
 screen.
  
  Super mario 64 DS was the best release game for the DS, and Im sure it remains one of the best 
 on the console. 
  
  i played this for a while i continue and sometimes let and try to let my frends beat me or not
 
  
  Of course u should use mario :D
  i gotta rest Ds sometime 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: kunglaofan2
Rating: 8.7
Date: Jan 29, 2006 5:12 pm PT
Review:  it brings one of the best N64 games to life again. if you loved and played the original game then 
 your heart will sink in this one. its also a good game to get is because the characters have their 
 own specials. like wario can take out things easier and yoshi can breath fire when he swallows. 
 luigi can turn invisible and run on water. and mario can fly and get fat. Bowser doesnt look like 
 a retarted in this one. they actuley changed him up a bit thats what also made me happy. i espicaly 
 like how they added more stars cause i use to think it was so easy to find them all now i only 
 have 131 stars 9 more to go! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mr_Squishie
Rating: 8.6
Date: Jan 30, 2006 6:38 pm PT
Review:  If you have recently bought a DS then super mario 64 DS makes a great first game. It's very long, 
 and there is a lot of things to do. 
  
  The controls aren't the best, but pose no problem. You can now use wario, luigi and yoshi as well 
 as mario. This game takes advantage of the touchscreen with a series of mini games which implements 
 the DS's hardware.
  
  You will be occupied for a long time with this game. The minigames will always keep you amused, 
 the quest is long as it is plus can always collect all the stars and the characters all play slightly 
 differently which adds more value still.
  
  Nintendo fans will immediately love this game, because it is full of that lovable Nintendo charm. 
 If you love mario games, and you're looking for a game that is full of value and will last awhile, 
 then this game is definitely for you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lmkj
Rating: 8.4
Date: Jan 27, 2006 7:00 pm PT
Review:  Overall this game is great! I spent almost 2 months just beating Bowser. If I add all the time 
 I spent collecting the 150 stars, I'd be around 5 months to beat all the game. In the addition 
 to the features, it's 5 1/2 months. It's a great game with all new characters like Luigi, Yoshi, 
 the rabbits, and Wario. Together, Mario and the rest of the gang will win over Bowser and save 
 Princess Toadstool! One of the better mario games you'll ever find to date for DS! If your looking 
 for a great DS game that'll require both time and technique this is the game! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: zoned_out14
Rating: 9.8
Date: Jan 25, 2006 5:56 am PT
Review:  This game is great. I loved this game when it was on N64 but it is even better now. You can choose 
 between 4 Nintendo characters to play with Yoshi, Mario, Luigi and Wario.
  
  Gameplay 10/10: This game just blew my mind away the first time I played it. It's just plain fun 
 all over the game. I love how it is so long I forget but was it 120 Stars you need to get!
  
  Graphics 10/10: Great job on your graphics Nintendo. You can tell that Nintendo put a really 
 good effort in to these graphics. The graphics are the best I have seen Nintendo do on a DS game.
 
  
  Sound 9/10: I loved all of the music and sound effects Nintendo put in this game it is like being 
 back in 1999 with the N64 version.
  
  Value 9/10: NIntendo priced just right for my opinion 30 bucks is a very good deal for a game like 
 this.
  
  Great job again Nintendo see you all next reveiw. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Impex
Rating: 7.2
Date: Jan 24, 2006 8:03 pm PT
Review:  Gameplay :
  
  Super Mario 64 DS will bring you to a great 3D Mario environment, with 4 different playable characters, 
 and plenty of stars to get. Though I must say, after getting through the excitement of buying this 
 new game, getting stars seemed more like a chore, instead of sitting down and having fun. If you've 
 played Super Mario on the N64, I see nothing here that would interest you, unless you would insist 
 on playing it through once again. 
  
  Graphics: 
  
  A little more bright, and Mario looks a tad better, but otherwise there's nothing new here. 
 
  
  Sound: 
  
  Sound is good, and the music is appealing. 
  
  Value: 
  
  Not worth the $30. The game turns into a chore instead of having fun, and if you've played the 
 game before, you won't be missing out on anything if you pass this one up. 
  
  To sum it up, it's a fair game, controls felt a little odd, and it gets a little old, real fast. 
 I couldn't recommend it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nishamuffypuppy
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 9, 2007 3:16 pm PT
Review:  The Good: Still the same fantastic game you remember, nice mini-games, longer replay value, a great, 
 and better polished port, a great revisit to the classic game.
  
  The Bad: Multi-player is rather pointless, control can be rough during some moments.
  
  Introduction: 
 Mario 64- Probably the most revolutionary platforming game of all time; it introduced new dimensions 
 into the gaming world as we know today, and it game the birth to a new genre as well- 3D Platforming. 
 Well we have come a long way since Mario 64 released in 1996- but hey, its been almost eight years 
 and now it has been re-released; except on a hand held we all know and love, the Nintendo DS. This 
 game has already sold millions of copied world-wide, and really does follow in the hard to follow 
 path of the original. Presentation: The presentation in this game is absolutely wonderful. The 
 menus are extremely Mario-ish, and there is all the old charm that made the original Mario 64 such 
 a classic. There is nice voice work, some easy and entertaining dialogs, and this game boasts a 
 little extras for its hand held platform. Truly wonderful.
  
  Story: The story in Mario 64 DS is similar to that of its Nintendo 64 counterpart, however this 
 time, there is a little twist. Princess Peach instead of only inviting Mario to the castle, also 
 invites Wario and Luigi- all excited and ready for there own little party. Yoshi, who has been 
 sleeping on top of the castle, decides to pass on the little invitation. Yoshi wakes up eventually, 
 and finds that neither of the heroes have returned, so he sets off into the castle to find them. 
 I think the old Koopa King is up to something now eh?
  
  Graphics: Now the graphics in Mario 64 DS are similar to the Nintendo 64's; except for the sense 
 that the DS version has better looking models, and the small sharp screen holds up well into making 
 everything run smooth and without any slowdown. The character models are actually MUCH better than 
 they were in its eight year old version, and are quite impressive 3D renditions on such a limited 
 platform. Mario looks a lot better, and there is more depth in his style, and is more fresh and 
 new. But it was truly Bowser that caught my eye; he looks more like the Bowser we are seeing and 
 are really used to; just picture Super Smash Bros. Melee and Mario Tennis; not the small handed, 
 large shelled Bowser we saw in Mario 64. The graphics though, are not perfect. They could have 
 been better, more variety- but hey, and its not really that gorgeous in comparison to some games, 
 such as Nintendogs, but hey; its an eight year game gone new right? Sound: I really enjoy the sound 
 in this game. The music is very catchy, and is truly some of the trademark Mario themes we all 
 recognize today. The voice work at the end (and briefly throughout) the game is done nicely, and 
 truly takes advantage of the DS's stereo speakers. It can turn up pretty loud, and its nice and 
 smooth. There is a lot of variety in the works being implemented in the game, and it all sounds 
 great. Gameplay: We all loved Mario 64, and I guarantee you will love this one too! Everything 
 is almost exactly as you remember from the old classic game. Everything in the world is all the 
 same, but with a few secrets, and updated graphics. The worlds, on a small platform, somehow seem 
 much more massive, and you will feel like you are playing a new game all over again. This game 
 is wonderful. But there are differences, and the largest one being that you can control four different 
 characters. Now you start out as Yoshi, and he is the biggest different from his Italian counterparts. 
 As Yoshi, you cannot punch and bash enemies/objects as you can with your buddies. Instead, Yoshi 
 can use his tongue. He can swallow enemies, and either spit them out or transform them into an 
 egg. He can then of course, hurl his eggs at his opponents. Classic Yoshi gameplay there. Yoshi 
 also has a flutter jump, in which he can soar high above his enemies, and even his other partners. 
 Yoshi is the best jumper in the game, and can even hover for a few moments. However, since Yoshi 
 cannot punch, he cannot break some blocks, so that puts him at a slight disadvantage; but he is 
 the quickest, the highest, and the greenest (Luigi may have some stiff competition!) . The second 
 character you have is Mario; which is as always the average around guy. He jumps good, runs good, 
 and is just; good. He can punch, and is the second strongest character so he can break all the 
 blocks in the game, except for Wario's Black Blocks. Mario is the only character in the game that 
 can take upon the final challenge, and the only character that can fly- what a joy! The third character 
 we have is Luigi. Luigi is an average Puncher, and is weaker than Wario and Mario. But he is an 
 extremely high jumper, with his own spin move that also lets him hover great distances. He may 
 not be as green as Yoshi, but he sure has the spirit! The final character you can control is the 
 overly sized Wario. He is slow, cannot jump high, but has fists as hard as rocks. He sends enemies 
 flying far enough across the screen that even his buddies wouldn't even dream of doing. As well, 
 he has a special move that lets him hurl away his opponents; but this is only available in Multiplayer 
 mode so the move it self is a bit pointless. Those are your four characters, but they all have 
 one more move available: Flower Power. With this powe rup, each character gets there own special 
 move that is available over a certain amount of time. Yoshi can blow fire, Mario can blow up like 
 a balloon and fly (again) , Luigi can turn invisible, and Wario can turn into metal. With this, 
 each character gets there own special move in which they can use to avoid and get past obstacles 
 blocking there path.
  Now the whole point of this game is to collect Stars, and Keys. By doing this, you unlock new levels, 
 and eventually the last way to reach the captured hostage (hmm.... Princess... never mind) . There 
 are 150 Stars in the game, and that is 30 more compared to the last game. There are new bosses 
 as well, and boy are these ones great! There are also about five new levels added to Mario DS, 
 and they all are fresh and new. Another add on to Mario 64 DS is Mini games. In total, there are 
 36 stylus oriented Mini Games, all of which are addicting to play. You only start out with about 
 eight, but you catch rabbits roaming around the Single Player adventure to unlock keys, which unlock 
 Mini Games. They really add to the Mario experience, and make this game even worth more the money.
 
  
  Multi player: Wow- The first 3D Mario game with a Multiplayer. In this mode, you try and collect.... 
 Stars. Its a rather average option, but could have been more. You basically run around and try 
 to pummel your opponents from collecting more Stars than yourself- but it isn't really much of 
 a task. They could have had Multiplayer Mini Games, but its better than nothing right? Value: This 
 game is great. Still one of the best DS games on the market. Fresh and original as its predecessor, 
 this game is to be remembered for generations to come. It is well worth you money, and if you have 
 a DS and don't have this game; you dont know what you're missing out on. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Paine128
Rating: 8.9
Date: Jan 24, 2006 2:03 pm PT
Review:  Super Mario DS is mainly a game from Nintendo 64 (which many of you already know) and was done 
 in the DS form. Nice way of adding Yoshi, Wario, and Luigi. The game is basically the same but 
 new boards and three characters were added in. When I first got this game (right along with getting 
 my new DS) , I was surprised that the SM was created for the DS. The game has the same graphics 
 and the touch screen really wasn't needed during story mode. Another part of this game that was 
 cool was the mini-games. The mini-games is what you need the touch screen for, mainly. All four 
 characters, Mario, Luigi, Yoshi, and Wario all have their own unique mini-games, which is cool, 
 and it keeps you occupied. The game itself is unique and I recommend this game to all the Mario 
 lovers. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gunman357
Rating: 8.7
Date: Jan 23, 2006 12:47 pm PT
Review:  Well i used to play the original mario 64 a while ago, and i thought it was awesome!!!!! But take 
 the original, add a extra 30 stars, and many fun mini games, more playable characters, and best of 
 all MULTIPLAYER, and there you go, you got a great remake. The only thing that god me frustrated was 
 the "new" type of gameplay, consisting of the touch screen....... It was really hard to master, so 
 then i changed my controls, and i managed to get around without getting too mad..........
  
  Well at any rate, I liked playing this game. So whether or not your a fan of mario, if you have a 
 DS, I reccomend getting this game!!!!!
  
  I hope my review helps. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gamefan606
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 22, 2006 2:47 pm PT
Review:  This game is great . Its just like the old one but with new things and better graphics. 
  
  Gamplay: A little hard to control with the D-pad at first, you eventually get used to it. Each 
 character has their special moves or advantages. Luigi, for example can jump the highest of the 
 four heroes but costs him strength, allowing him to get pushed farther than others. Wario has the 
 most strength out of the four heroes and can break things and carry things the others cant. However 
 it costs him the ability to jump as high as the others. These factors affect which character you 
 would use to get a certain star. This game also has minigames which really show the power of the 
 touch screen on this game.
  
  Graphics: The graphics are just great. Now you can see more detail in this game than in the original, 
 such as Mario's mouth. Things also look less blocky than the original.
  
  Sound: The music.. ahh yes. Though the music is the same in most levels as the original, it sounds 
 as if on some levels that the music has been revamped (Hazy Maze Cave) . Plus its also nice to see 
 how some music from Super Mario Bros 3 got into the minigames.
  
  Value: This game is definetly worth the money. It has the feelilng of the original but is much 
 better.
  
  Overall, any one who owns a DS must at least play this game once. 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: michael_delta
Rating: 9.4
Date: Jan 22, 2006 2:19 am PT
Review:  When I played Mario 64 I was so hooked I went doing everything from mastering tricks to collecting 
 all 120 stars. But I believed it was not enough. Now for the DS we have Mario 64 DS version, and 
 boy how hooked I was, there was everything needed in that game. The castle has more rooms, more 
 secrets, 150 stars to collect plus special mini game keys you have to find! 
  
  Interesting enough, you could play 3 new characters with each a different ability. If you're planning 
 on buying DS, I suggest you put this at the top of your list, it kills time and it's a lot of fun!
 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: packymaster
Rating: 9.2
Date: Jan 21, 2006 7:27 pm PT
Review:  I always liked this game very much for the Nintendo 64. I grew up playing it and I always found 
 it to be one of the hardest games. I was very pleased it was released for the Nintendo DS and it 
 came back with great improvements. Yoshi, Wario, and Luigi were added along side Mario, which added 
 a load of fun to top off an already wonderful title. This is still one of my favorite games for 
 the DS, and for the Nintendo 64. The Ds version also has the Rec Room option, which includes multiple 
 different mini games. The mini games are very fun to play, and also highly addictive. I enjoy this 
 game very much, and I hope to see it again in the future. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jfkunrendered
Rating: 8
Date: Jan 21, 2006 1:49 pm PT
Review:  If you have ever played Super Mario 64 for the N64, you have already played this game. It was fun, 
 but after a while it got a little boring, I mean come on if your going to port a game, put alot 
 of new stuff. It looks great, but it doesnt really use the touch screen to well, and something 
 new would have been apriciated besides being able to play as other people. The multiplayer is ok, 
 I played it at school with some friends at lunch and it gets pretty intense. If you do buy this 
 game, make sure you have some friends to play with. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: yasircool1994
Rating: 6.9
Date: Jan 17, 2006 4:50 pm PT
Review:  I liked this game the first time I played it alot because there were alot of things to do and unlock. 
 Now I won Mario and just don't know what to do at all !!!!!!!!!!!!! All I do these days is play 
 the mini games in the Rec. Room since I don't know what to do with Mario. The minigames in the 
 Rec. Room are really fun [persenolly I only like 3] . If I knew what to do next this game would 
 get about 9.3 but since I do not know what to do I would give it a 6.9 Please someone  
 how!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mumotuma_man
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 16, 2006 7:57 pm PT
Review:  Everytime I go to gamestop, i look in the used N64 games for Super Mario 64 but was always disapointed 
 to find endless copies of old maddens, mario nowhere to b found. Im an owner of a PSP and I've 
 been steadily ignoring the amount of great games for the DS cuz i was in denial that I got the 
 worse portable system but when I found out they had a updated version of Mario 64 for the DS, I 
 went out and bought the DS and this game yesterday. TOTALLY WORTH IT!!! This game brings back so 
 many memories of me when I was like 8 playing it at friends house's.... For those missing this 
 game, go out and buy it now... and dont even get me started on the mini-games.... sooooo much fun.. ive 
 spent equal amount of time on the mini games as i have on the normal... an all-around great game! 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bury_me_in_blak
Rating: 9.6
Date: Jan 15, 2006 9:51 pm PT
Review:  i love this game, i'd have to say that it's quite addicting. Even though it's easy to fall of eges, 
 this game kicks more butt than when it did on the 64. The cons on this game are: it's easy to fall 
 of edges, bowser fights are kinda tough, you have to play as yoshi at the beginning, and thats 
 about it for the cons. The pros are: there is a new power up, you can unlock other characters, 
 wario is still a fatty (just kidding but he is a fat ba***rd) , luigi is like the best character, 
 you get to fight the king goomba (goomboss) from paper mario, you get to fight king boo (from luigi's 
 mansion and i swear that is the coolest boo ever!) , you get to fight a giant ice bully, there are 
 new power stars, and it added some challenge and that's what makes the game fun. I had a lot of 
 fun and i've become a nerd for my ds, i love it! i just can't put it down. The backlight is awesome! 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: htmlmike
Rating: 8.3
Date: Jan 15, 2006 12:48 pm PT
Review:  Ive had this game for a year its an okay game. Its a good game, but not for the portable. The problem 
 is Nintendo isnt making new games, there redoing old ones. They need ideas. Obviosly the mario 
 dude is sucssesful, but if you ask me, make a new game, mabye give waligi his own game. Put older 
 charaters into a whole new game. Like, Super Smasbrothers RETRO! Have paper mario, king bomb omb, 
 the toads, mabye a turtle. I think the Ds itself is a waste. PSP is the better one, DUH?? Movies, 
 music, a sexery look, heck you can even watch tv!! Dont waste the doe... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Eondo
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jan 14, 2006 12:44 pm PT
Review:  This game is remembered and played by loyal fans from the days of nintendo 64. Super mario 64 DS 
 is a remake but it adds so much more. Something that I found great is the addition of new characters. 
 Yoshi, mario {lazy plumber} Luigi Wario. This adds a great deal to the game play. The graphics 
 are a deal better than the nintendo 64 counterpart and is very good taking into consideration that 
 this turned into a handheld game. Sound is the flaw here. They didnt change anything or add anything. 
 We've all heard it before! The value gets the game back on its feet as this is one of the most 
 addictive ds games up to date. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: trick_man01
Rating: 9.4
Date: Jan 13, 2006 10:58 pm PT
Review:  While we all remember the first time we ran around the massive world of Super Mario 64 (N64) this 
 time around is even better. Adding 30 more stars and new challenges with new characters. The new 
 characters add game play difficulty by having characters with different abilities. Only Mario can 
 do the wall jump, Luigi has a twirly backflipy thingy, Wario can break the large blocks and Yoshi... 
 well Yoshi is just a fun character to play as. And the new stars in every level make this a worthy 
 port of the original. To anyone who hasn't played the original pick up this version now and to 
 anyone who has... same difference. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ruttness
Rating: 9.1
Date: Jan 13, 2006 9:15 pm PT
Review:  This game is the remake to the N64 Super Mario 64. Super Mario 64 is one of the best Mario games 
 and this brings it to a whole new level. With the multiplayer and being Luigi, Yoshi and Wario, 
 this game is funner than the first. Graphics are improved, new levels and bosses, and it has a 
 bunch of great minigames to earn. The touchscreen makes playing easier in some ways and in other 
 ways a pain in the butt. With the same sounds and songs, same story and the same places, this game 
 is a Classic remade. If you are a fan of Super Mario 64, then you will have a blast with this game. 
 The game is longer, with 30 new stars to receive, but has the same secrets plus more. Graphics 
 are better than before and impressed me greatly. Overall, great game, definitely worth buying. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lilweightlifter
Rating: 9.7
Date: Jan 12, 2006 6:40 am PT
Review:  Super Mario 64 DS is way better than the 64 version, in my opinion. I have just started playing 
 a few days ago and I'm already hooked. You start with Yoshi and have to try and find Mario, Wario, 
 and Luigi because they disappeared after looking for a kidnapped Princess Peach. The game has many 
 more stars and different course objectives for the new stars. This is the 64 version with alot 
 more added in basically. There are new moves as well. Mario can punch and kick (unless he could 
 do that in the 64 version, but I don't remember him being able to) . I have only played as Yoshi 
 and partly as Mario (you put on his cap that you find and turn into him for as long as the cap 
 stays on) . Yoshi, of course, can gobble enemies up and make an egg to throw or spit them out. This 
 is an awesome game and I recommend it to anyone looking for a classic game with a new twist. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mmm_chocolate
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 11, 2006 6:29 pm PT
Review:  This is truly an improvement on the n64 game.
  Getting to play as different characters (as well as rescuing them) just adds a whole lot more to 
 the fun factor.
  Best of all, it's portable!
  Maybe it doesn't use the touch screen in very exciting ways (mostly maps) , but the way that they 
 use it is useful.
  - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - 
 - - - - - - - - - - - - - 
  (i'll write more when I've finished the game) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: B-Boys4Life
Rating: 9.6
Date: Jan 11, 2006 4:49 pm PT
Review:  Mario 64 is truly a classic for 64 ( thats what I think) and one of the best games for 64. Though 
 even I beat the first one this one has more stars and more characters to choose from because I 
 just play as Luigi you still have to play as other characters in some star situations but thats 
 ok. This game is just so fun to play and if you beat the first 64 verison and you like this game 
 pick it up for a car ride you won't be disappointed in this by purchase This game is very very 
 very good in every way so if you never played it ever its very good but who hasn't played it! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: clank_master9
Rating: 9.6
Date: Jan 11, 2006 1:14 pm PT
Review:  great game great great great game. i loved the N64 version and i love this one espesialy the added 
 mini-games and playing as luigi was fun to. the graphics rock and eveything is great. fdnjfheidhfds 
 ufhduifhiduvfuidbfds uii dsif hdsjgjksdh g hdk h dnv f hnfnjh fkh mgb hgf j ghh gf jfgnhj fghnb 
 gj hg nbv n hgj hg jmnh gj hgj fgh nfhgj h hj hg jh g jhgj h kj ghjgh hfd gb g k h g gnghe fgn 
 nfg gfn gbf ghn m ghn gf bnufghbugjhyu ui uigv ufhfdgrehgjk fdgj dfgf d jkfdbnj gjf gdf jkfhjkfdhgj 
 ghd fgjk lhfdjgjk sdjkhdfl gjkhgkjf dgjkrehugljsdhg fe gjkhd gjdhgjkfhd gj fdgh ukkjshjhfkjg sdghkjsdf 
 ghlkdhglfdhg khdfjkg hdflkjhfdglkjhgfjkf dhgjkh gkjdhfg kje uterh gfud vjkdvjkhfjv cjk fhjk vfdhvkjfdg 
 jfd jvhfdl gjfdg kjfl vhre fguildfjdghuilfhgkjlfhdgldjgfd i dont know what else to say about this 
 great game dshgjks dhfjgkhdfvjkdlj vjkl dji dfn kj dfvljfdn jkfhjg fldghelegh vj . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: argianas
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 11, 2006 11:28 am PT
Review:  GAMEPLAY: A remake of the launch title for the N64 that sought to be a passable first attempt at 
 a 3D platformer but ended up a game that is still to this day the benchmark for the genre. The 
 premise is a familiar one, the princess is kidnapped by Bowser and you need to go and rescue her. 
 There are 15 main courses and a handful of mini-courses, and the goal of each is to collect stars. 
 Each course has a multiple number of stars (7 in the original, 8 in the DS version) , and you need 
 a certain number of stars to unlock new areas. Another change from the original is that you are 
 no longer limited to Mario - here you start off with Yoshi, and at certain points in the game you 
 can rescue Mario, Luigi, and Wario and switch between those characters based on the strengths and 
 weaknesses for each. Mario is his old familiar self, while Luigi is faster and can jump higher, 
 Wario is slow and can't jump high but can bash metal bricks, and Yoshi uses his tongue as an attack 
 and is a good jumper as well. While most of the stars can be gained with any character, there are 
 a few that require the unique traits of one character. The control isn't as precise as the original 
 due to having a d-pad instead of an analog, but you can also control your character using the touchscreen 
 for more precise control That said, I didn't find the d-pad to be too bad in practice, there isn't 
 really an area that comes to mind where I wished I had an analog instead. One of the drawbacks 
 of being such an early 3D game is the camera control, which is primitive compared to today's standards. 
 You can look around in first person standing still, but for actual gameplay you can have it center 
 behind you with the push of a button, and more precise 360 rotation with the touch screen.
  
  GRAPHICS: There's definitely an upgrade of graphics over the original, Mario specifically looks 
 less blocky. The level design is still great, a nice range of enemies and each level has a very 
 unique feel to it based on a theme.
  
  SOUND: The music matches up with the level design very well and the tracks themselves are enjoyable. 
 The only drawback is the sound quality of the DS at times seems a little... I'm not sure what the 
 best way to describe it is, mechanical? A good range of sound effects are present, including a 
 few very short lines that you hear when you jump, land, climb, punch, etc.
  
  VALUE: I think part of the genious in the level design is that you just don't run through the level 
 as in the NES and SNES Marios, each world is repeatable with different goals. In this case, there 
 are 8 stars in each full course. While some see the reuse of scenery as a drawback, I thought it 
 worked since you usually had a specific goal and only used a part of the zone during each run, 
 limiting the sense of deja vu despite how often you may re-enter the zone. Also, there are 30 extra 
 stars in the DS version to find over the N64 version, plus there are a couple new minizones hidden 
 throughout the castle. There are also a few simple unlockable non-required minigames that you can 
 enjoy right from the main menu, most of which were essentially a showcase of the touch screen's 
 capabilities with this DS launch title.
  
  TILT: Even about 8 years after it was made, this remake still holds up very well and, if you haven't 
 played it in a while or especially if you never have, is very entertaining and is a great title 
 for any DS owner to have. As with all Nintendo Mario remakes, if the additional bonuses seem interesting, 
 or if you simply want a portable version that's very similar to the original, then this is a great 
 title to pick up even if you own the N64 version. It's simply a game that everyone should at least 
 try and is always near the top of the lists of the greatest and most influential games of all time. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jacash3492
Rating: 8.7
Date: Jan 10, 2006 5:20 pm PT
Review:  I think this is an ok game but you should rent it or borrow it before you waste your money. If 
 you loved the regular Super Mario 64 then you might enjoy this one. It is exactly like the last 
 one except not as good and it graphics might not look the same as the last one did. It is shorter 
 for some odd reason. I think you need to rent or borrow it. Fun game, bad remake. I think it is 
 a waste of mula. Take my advice if your a good video game expert. It's not as exciting. Story mode 
 in the game is difficult to beat with all the different controls. It's kinda like the N64 version. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: UnlivedPhalanx
Rating: 8.8
Date: Jan 10, 2006 1:47 pm PT
Review:  Super Mario 64 finds a new home on the Nintendo DS with new and improved graphics, and gameplay 
 mechanics. Perhaps one of the biggest selling points at the Nintendo DS launch was Super Mario 
 64 DS. This classic is reborn with more refined graphics and with some new twists to make it a 
 worthwhile purchase along with some mini games, that truly shows what the DS can do, both with 
 innovation and fun.
  
  Super Mario 64 DS is almost exactly like the Nintendo 64 version with only 1 or two noticeable 
 changes. One of these changes is the implementation of new characters available to play. Previously, 
 only Mario was available to save Peach from Bowsers clutches. Now you have the choice of Mario, 
 Yoshi, Luigi, and Wario (oddly enough) working to save Princess Peach.
  
  The characters each have their own very unique style of movement, attacks, and special attributes. 
 What is even better, is that Nintendo has gone back and re-touched levels to take advantage of 
 this. For instance, Yoshi has a hover-jump and Wario can break large blocks and boulders with his 
 fist, which sometimes impede the progress of the other characters, making it necessary to go back 
 into that level with a different character.
  
  You start off with Yoshi and from there you must proceed to play the game just like you would in 
 the N64 version. The only difference is that you have to play with Yoshi for a little bit. Unlocking 
 the characters is fairly straightforward; youll need to find a picture with a characters portrait, 
 jump in, and then defeat a mini boss inside to rescue the corresponding character.
  
  On top of the new characters, mini games have been introduced into the game as rewards for catching 
 those pesky rabbits you see hopping around the castle. Now, Instead of giving you a key to a new 
 area, they will give you a key that gives you access to minigames (which can be accessed and played 
 if you only have a moment from the main menu) . One of the minor little drawbacks to this, however, 
 is that you have to unlock all the characters to get access to all these minigames.
  
  Perhaps the most noticeable thing right out of the box is how much better the game looks than its 
 N64 predecessor. The graphics are mush cleaner, less jagged and more bright and colorful than before 
 (perhaps due to the screen) . While the actual look and feel of everything is generally the same, 
 it looks much better than it used to. One more quick observation you might make is that the semi-transparent 
 textures (used by water and such) and much more clear and refined, allowing you to see more clearly 
 into water or through a transparent object.
  
  If there is one thing about Super Mario 64 that hasnt changed with the DS it is the sound. Everything 
 sounds exactly like it used to, which is fine with me. The sounds in the game are what (perhaps) 
 made it more unique than all the other adventure games with its quirky sound effects. While the 
 game does try to boast some realism with the sound effects, most of them are totally over the top, 
 and makes for a fun little adventure through the game. While there are some new and refined tunes 
 and sounds in the game, most of them are from the old Super Mario 64, and thats not a bad thing 
 at all.
  The one, and only thing that really bothers me is the poor implementation of controls in this game. 
 The D-Pad controls seem to be based upon momentum rather than direct movement, which makes for 
 some pretty frustrating moments when you turn around off of a cliff. The stylus too, has a hard 
 time controlling the character alongside the buttons; there just wasnt a good control scheme to 
 be found in the game.
  
  Super Mario is just as fun as it was back in the day on the Nintendo 64. There is little to nothing 
 that could really injure this game or make that big of a difference. Super Mario 64 DS captures 
 exactly what made Super Mario 64 an appealing game and put that in your hand.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: beta_than_you
Rating: 9.8
Date: Jan 9, 2006 5:12 pm PT
Review:  this is truely a great game i particularly enjoy the mini games. it was a bit frustrating for me 
 because im not the greatest at games like this one but it is still a lot of fun for kids and adults. 
 i highly recommend it for your fist game because it teaches you how to use the ds easily and quickly. it 
 is a suitable price for such a game and it is worth the money im really happy i got the game and 
 you will be too. you may think that it is just a copy to the original on nintendo 64 but its not 
 it is even better. trust me on this one, you'll love it
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Jakeus124
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jan 8, 2006 7:31 pm PT
Review:  Super Mario 64 DS is a must have game for DS users. THe ability to se the new characters make the 
 game better than the N 64 version. The game has awesome graphics and the some of the mini games 
 are fun. This game is only good to play once, though. The game does not have a good multiplayer. 
 I think they should have had a more variety of things to do on multiplayer. The game doesnt take 
 full use of the touch pad either. It is a fun game to play on the road. It definetly takes a while 
 to beat, so dot expect it to be a short game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Crumbly_b
Rating: 9.6
Date: Jan 7, 2006 9:29 pm PT
Review:  Screw you PSP! DS's RULE! This is one amazing game. Super Mario 64 put into the Nintendo DS, with 
 some extra goodies. I wish most N64 games could be put into the Nintendo Double Screen. Cuz we 
 all know how great the N64 was. With all the calssic rareware games. Plus you can play this game, 
 online-type thing (wi-fi?) or whatever. It is so fun and what not. i love Super Mario 64, but when 
 its hand held, its just that much more impressive. i cant waint until the second one FINALLY comes 
 out..... damn nintendo, smokin their pot in some benjamins, then releasing games when theyre finally 
 sober.......... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ljmjag
Rating: 8.4
Date: Jan 7, 2006 9:41 am PT
Review:  When you think about, there is not much more that anyone needs to know about this game then its 
 title. "Super Mario 64 DS" tells you just about everything you need to know. It's a Super Mario 
 game, so that in and of itself almost certainly means that it is going to be good, and it has been 
 formatted for the DS.
  
  I enjoyed the gameplay of this Mario game. You get to play several different characters, including, 
 Yoshi, Mario, Luigi and Wario each of which has several individualized strengths and weaknesses. 
 The use of the touch screen is interesting too, since what it allows you to do is quickly change 
 your perspective as you are playing - the more I played around with it, the more innovative I believed 
 that is really was - and the more I came to rely on it. I really think that the use of the touch 
 screen is underappreciated in this one.
  
  There is plenty to explore, plenty to discover and hours of entertainment to be had in this one. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: music1089
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 6, 2006 9:46 pm PT
Review:  This is the first game I played the day I got my DS, and so far out of the games I have, this one 
 has been my favorite! The DS captured the fun that the player was able to go through on the Nintendo 
 64 version of this game, and extended it with more stars, characters, and even some different cool 
 levels. I was amazed when I saw this game for the first time. I though, "Wow, Super Mario 64 is 
 such an awesome game! And now it's portable!" And amazingly, the DS was able to capture the graphics 
 of the Super Mario 64 version and make it handheld! Bravo, Nintendo! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: maxpayne10
Rating: 8.7
Date: Jan 6, 2006 8:54 pm PT
Review:  This is one of the best portable games ever made. The game updates Mario 64 with some better graphics. 
 This is the most beautiful handheld game I have ever seen. The game is great fun for kids and adults 
 alike, Multiplayer is fantastic on this game. There are some really fun levels in this game, but 
 unfortunately there are also some really annoying levels to. This is a great starter game for the 
 DS and should not be missed. If you haven't played it yet I suggest you go find it and play it. 
 This game is just fantastic for the DS. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: vanana
Rating: 8.8
Date: Jan 6, 2006 8:46 pm PT
Review:  When I originally got my DS, i got two games. This and madden. At keast I was happy with one of 
 my choices. This game was absolutely incredible, it gave the PSP something to compete against. 
 There was only one problem with this game, it caused some disappointment because it was so great. 
 All of the other game on the DS had awful graphics, this game used the DS to what it was fully 
 capable of. 
  
  This game has great use of the touch screen and great use of the DS' Graphic capabilities.
  
 
  The other Mario games do not really compare to this but this game is a classic. When they changed 
 it, they only made it better. This DS version of super mario is EVEN better than the original. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sjesseph
Rating: 7.9
Date: Jan 6, 2006 8:45 pm PT
Review:  This really is a good game with lots of game playing time and really good graphics and sound to 
 go a long with it. It was worth the money I paid and like almost all mario games has a lot of exciting 
 game play time. It is pretty much like Mario for the gamecube and 64. You play as different people 
 and start of as my favorite (Yoshi) . If you are into the mario games this may jusy be the game 
 for you and worth a try! I know you will like it if you give it a try. So far I have only played 
 one DS I didn't like so good Luck and happy game playing! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sacredBed
Rating: 8.9
Date: Jan 6, 2006 8:18 pm PT
Review:  im very pleased at this transfer from n64 to ds. with more stars and more characters this is a 
 great launch title. First of all the graphics in this game are slightly better than the orignial 
 game. withought the analog stick the controlls take some time to get used to. every character has 
 a different ability which makes them unique. the minigames are very fun and youll be wanting to 
 play every one. the world in this game is roughly the same size as the original and backround graphics 
 stay pretty clean. this game is a must get if you own a ds and need to play a long lasting game. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: yoshiowns
Rating: 0
Date: Jan 6, 2006 12:04 pm PT
Review:  Okay, since my Mac wont let me do the rate thing, here are my ratings.
  Gameplay: 9
  Graphics: 9
  Sound: 8
  Value: 9
  Tilt: 10 
  
  Overall Rating: 9.0
  
  When I first 
 started playing this game, I had no idea what I was supposed to do with Yoshi. I played the original 
 game for the N64, and I loved it. But now, on the DS, it has improved in many ways. It has better 
 graphics, more stars, levels, characters, and even has mini-games! Unfortunatly, the sound sometimes 
 comes out of both speakers at the same time. One of the funnest features is the minigames. While 
 I might be playing the game because I think that it is fun, my sister is in it just to catch the 
 Rabbits. One thing that I think takes away from the game, is that you wont be Mario as much, as 
 the other characters, and that takes away from the overall game. It still is a great game, and 
 I recomend it to anybody who has a DS, and has played the original Super Mario 64. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Raaaani
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 6, 2006 6:10 am PT
Review:  Super Mario World was the best release-game for SNES, Super Mario 64 was the best release-game 
 for the N64. Is Super Mario 64 DS the best release-game for the DS? Yes, it is! Even if Super Mario 
 64 DS not are a hole new game Nintendo has put in a lot of new stuff into the little disc. Minigames, 
 30 extra stars, a few new courses and more.
  
  If you have played Super Mario 54 you'll still think that this is really fun to play. One of the 
 new things are the minigames. You start with 8 minigames, but catch rabbits in the Adventure Mode 
 and you'll get more. There is a total of 36 minigames.
  
  Another new thing is the VS Mode. Up to four players can play against each other. Choose between 
 four courses and try to take the other players stars. All starts with Yoshi but caps are placed 
 on the course so if you take on, you'll transform to that character.
  
  In Super Mario 64, you had only Mario as a playable characters, but in Super Mario 64 DS you have 
 four! Mario, Luigi, Wario and Yoshi is all playable after a while. You unlock character after character 
 until you have them all. But you don't start with Mario. No, you'll start with Yoshi! As a last 
 thing in this review, I gonna tell you how I think about the Graphics and the Sound.
  
  Graphics
  
  Super Mario 64 had good graphics to be N64, but I think that Super Mario 64 DS 
 has even better. That is because that Nintendo can put so good graphics in a little machine like 
 the DS. Super Mario 64 DS has superb graphics and worth a nine.
  
  Sound
  
  I'm still think that the sound is great, how old it even is I'm never gonna think the sound of 
 Super Mario 64 is bad. The DS-version sounds also great and the surround are so fantastic! I don't 
 give the Sound a ten-point because of the... Ye, you know what I mean.
  
  Thanks for checking out this review and never forget how good this game really is. Super Mario 
 64 DS is absolutely the best release-game for the Nintendo DS! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Barifan
Rating: 9.6
Date: Jan 5, 2006 2:40 pm PT
Review:  You HAVE to play Super Mario 64 DS. This game involve action with tecnich
  and has a little better graphic than Super Mario 64. Game with around of 120 stars some paints are 
 dificult when you pass of the lava Bowser. This game has cool minigames of Yoshi, Mario, Luigi and 
 Wario. In the adventure mode, u can catch some bunnys outside of Princess Peach's castle and they 
 have new minigames to you play. In this game there are some advantages of Super Mario 64 like: if 
 you run, crouch and jump you will do a long jump. You can catch in some red boxes Red flower, Cap 
 wings. If Yoshi get the Red flower he will takes a fire launcher that can burn the enemies. And if 
 Mario gets the Red flower he will be instantly fat and he will bounce on the floor (This thing will 
 helps you when you get to Bowser's sub...) yoshi can eat (on the good sense :D) the enemies to create 
 eggs to thrown on the enemies. around of 25 paints Super Mario 64 DS is a long full game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dragonx500
Rating: 8.9
Date: Jan 3, 2006 3:09 pm PT
Review:  Super Mario 64 was a great game for the Nintendo64 gaming console and has been turned into a Nintendo 
 DS game that you can play in a car ride!
  
  Time youll spend: youll spend more time on this then most games for the DS
  
  Graphics: same 
 as the original classic
  
  sound: same as the original classic
  
  guess what? 3 new characters, each with their own unique abilitys to play as!
  
  fun: the main 
 game is fun, but my favorite part by far is the wide range of minigames unlockable as you progress 
 through story mode.
  
  This game also has more power stars for you to collect, which makes you utilize each characters 
 special abilitys in order to obtain.
  
  This is truly one of the best DS games ive ever played and you should definetly get it right now 
 or ill eat your face and im not joking ill actually do it..... ive done it before......
  
  Happy listening to a moron with a mustache saying "its a me, Mario!" 
::::::

::::::
UserName: georgiaboy329
Rating: 8.2
Date: Mar 23, 2006 6:47 pm PT
Review:  Im an X-Box gamer so this was a very different game for me coming from it.
  
  The gameplay on the game was actually kinda cool. It is a game where you can roam around in and 
 around a pretty big castle. This game is almost the same game as the one on N-64. Although, I was 
 suprised at all the stuff that Nintendo did add. They added rabbits that hopped around that you 
 could catch and get more mini games. The mini games were kind of fun. They had games like poker 
 on it which was kind of fun.
  
  The graphics are this game are amazing for DS. They are great and smooth and are very good to look 
 at. I have Madden 2005 for it and the graphics were really bad but i was suprised that these were 
 a lot better.
  
  The sound was good but sometimes the sounds of them jumping was really annoying.
  
  Overall, 
 this is not a game that you would want to buy a DS just for this game, but if you already have 
 it, it could be worth a try.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: blazethe1
Rating: 8.9
Date: Jan 2, 2006 1:46 pm PT
Review:  along with mario kart DS and animal crossing, be sure to pick up a copy of Super Mario DS. just 
 as good as the N64 version, but more! catching rabbits around and in the castle will earn you keys 
 to the rec room, where you can play tons of mini games. now along with mario are luigi and wario. 
 plus the ever-popular, yoshi. you start out with yoshi and hav to go find the others, as well as 
 acquire stars. there are, i believe 150 starts in all, and im nowhere close to getting them all 
 yet, but i hav owned the game for a full week now. this game, along with mario kart, show your 
 DS capabilities very well. nintendo has always been the best at looking nice. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DS-man
Rating: 8.8
Date: May 6, 2006 1:34 pm PT
Review:  I had this game for the Nintendo 64 and i loved it, i was on it all the time, and this time its 
 on the DS, with bigger, better stuff like playing as more chars like, Yoshi, Wario, Luigi and of 
 course Mario!, it follows the same plot
  As the old version of the 64, but it has some exstra missions
  
  The mini games on it are soooo 
 fun and great to play and highly adictive,
  If you played the classical version of this and you liked it, then get this game, bring back the 
 youth in you.
  
  The lack of the Touch screen and double screen is disapointing seeing as you touch screen can move 
 your charr, but then you cant jump inless your left handed 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Vash_22
Rating: 8.7
Date: Jan 2, 2006 1:14 am PT
Review:  Collect stars unlock new characters like Mario, Luigi, and that one big guy with the yellow hat 
 and suspenders. I forgot his name. Of course there is a reason why Nintendo has all these Mario 
 games most of them are addicting. This one is one of them. Many stages even some to unlock, use 
 hints to unlock even more. Graphics are good and have a nice 3-d effect. The only bad thing about 
 it is I hate the camera angles, sometimes I can't see what is going on or I can't change the camera 
 angle because a wall is in the way. Overall it's a great worth your money and time game. Challenges 
 are pretty much different on stage except for the collect eight red coins in every one of them. 
 Sometimes you also get stuck easily, but usually you can try a different one try later on and finally 
 get it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: fbrisevac
Rating: 8.7
Date: Feb 3, 2006 11:04 pm PT
Review:  Super Mario 64 DS is a great, classic game, no matter which way you look at it. In my opinion Super 
 Mario Sunshine is just a tiny bit better, but without the cool mini games.
  
  I did not play the N64 version of this game, so I cannot compare the controls that have come under 
 some scrutiny. Using the touch screen to run fast can be very difficult, though.
  
  The graphics in this game are great for a handheld, and the sound is as clear as any other game. 
 The adventure mode is 150 stars long, and will keep you playing, and playing, for hours and hours. 
 On top of that, there are extremely amusing mini games involving the touch screen.
  
  Its great that there are lots of different worlds to play on, its never good to have the same surrounding 
 for too long.
  
  Super mario 64 DS is/was the best release game for the DS, and Im sure it remains one of the best 
 on the console. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Yoshinator64
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 1, 2006 11:58 pm PT
Review:  Super Mario 64 lives on and this time Mario's not alone now he's got Yoshi Luigi and Wario.
  
  Super Mario 64 DS for the DS is a remake of the ultra famous Super Mario 64 for the 64.
  
 
  Like i said Mario's not alone but before you can get him you need to play as Yoshi (yay Yoshi!) . 
 Every character has there ups and downs like Wario's the slowest and is jumping changled but is 
 the srongest.
  
  In the last game you had to get 120 (sounds hard? that was easy) but now in the DS version you 
 have to get 150 so that's an extra 30 which is mega hard to find need one more.
  
  But back to the game, since the analog stick is not on a DS you can use the touch screen as a analog 
 stick (after a few easy adjustments) the touch screen is also a map. which comes in handy espically 
 since the show the arrow of what your faceing (like when you look forward the arrow points forward.) 
 which comes in very very handy when facing bowser.
  
  Also this game has Mini-games and they rock though some are like repeats it's still cool anyways.
 
  
  Anything else Mario 64 DS has for us? yep and that's Multiplayer. though i the first verison there 
 was souposed to be co-op (very early screen shots) but instead Nintendo put in Battle mode.
  
  with all that i think that Super Mario 64 Ds deverse a 10 out of 10. get this if you are inlove 
 with the old one and trying to find a way to make the 64 verison portible. this is your game. but 
 for others with DS's give this game a try. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: En-GaGe
Rating: 8.8
Date: Jan 1, 2006 11:15 am PT
Review:  This game is excellent! Re-creating everything and more from the original. Ones who loved the 64 
 version will love this and will be pleased that there have been 40 new stars to find. With the 
 addition of 3 new characters to play as, and multiplayer are excellent changes.
  
  The gameplay is very very fun and much like the first game. The controls take a bit of getting 
 used to but you will soon be able to master them. The countless levels are extremely fun and will 
 keep you playing for a while.
  
  The graphics are about the same as the 64 version but look a bit more refined. They are able to 
 beautifully render the Mario kingdom we fell in love with.
  
  The sound and ambiance in the game are perfect and again much like the original they are different 
 for every level but, but if your in a level for a while it might get a bit annoying.
  
  This game does not have too much replay value but as you play further in the game you will be able 
 to unlock mini-games to play later which do have replay value.
  
  Overall this game is a perfect almost mirror version of the original but with some refreshing twists. 
 Great job Nintendo! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: thinker3
Rating: 8.2
Date: Dec 31, 2005 10:43 pm PT
Review:  i think the beginning was better than the one for super mario 64 (nintendo 64) . I gave it a good 
 score because the game had difficult controls and it was easy to fall of the edges. But the best 
 part is, you get to play as mari, luigi, yoshi, and the fat lard that he is, wario. I think the 
 new power ups were fantastic (it was 10 times easier for me to get to boo's balcony) And i like 
 the part where Luigi can temporarily walk on water, how wario can break black blocks, but the thing 
 i hate, are the switch stars. But they did improve Bowser's image, and they made a little mini- 
 game thing, you can enter new levels, it just reveals more. The bad part is though, i don't think 
 lugi, wario or yoshi can wall kick = (. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mariobros123
Rating: 8.6
Date: Dec 31, 2005 7:03 pm PT
Review:  Super Mario 64 DS brings back old memmories of the nintendo 64 version. Those were the good old 
 days. Now there back. Super Mario 64 DS is an incredible game.
  
  Lets start with the overall story. Well just like the original your mission is to rescue peach. 
 How fun. You have to battle people to get to peach as usual. You've got the Gomboss, Bowser and 
 much much more. The story line is ok. You have to do the same thing in quite a bit of mario adventures. 
 
  You have to rescue Peach. 
  
  Now the Gameplay is great. You'll be busy drop kicking and punching enemies till your fingers are 
 raw. The controls are awsome. There are many moves. The best part is that you can now use four 
 charecters. Each charecter has specific ups and downs with there own set of moves. This makes gameplay 
 much funner because your not stuck with one specific charecter. There is a great choice of levels 
 now. Sure you start out in Bomb Omb village or something along those lines but tou eventualy unlock 
 levels. Gameplay is THE feature in this game.
  
  The Levels are wonderful. You will play from a range of levels from water to snow. There are about 
 140 stars to collect making this game last you a while. 
  
  Also in this game you are not stuck with one enemy. You will battle anything from bombombs to bowser. 
 You are not stuck battling only one enemy.
  
  Could there be anything else. Yes, multiplayer. You can go against 4 of your friends in four different 
 arenas. You will have hours of fun on these four courses using all four charecters.
  
  You should definitley invest in this game if you like anything near adventure. You will love this 
 experience. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: joey_penguin
Rating: 8.2
Date: Dec 30, 2005 11:02 pm PT
Review:  If you loved the old Mario for 64 you will love this game. Its got the same music and the same 
 storyline. But the game is longer. This isnt one of those games thats fun for like 2 hours till 
 you get bored and want to get another game. This game makes you play it more. By collecting power 
 stars you unlock new worlds and different characters. There is only one bad thing about the game 
 which would be some of the power stars you have to get. On most of the missions it shows you where 
 the star is on the bottom screen to kind of guide you to it, but there are some that you have to 
 figure out yourself, it could get very frusterating. But you can always get cheats for it through 
 GameSpot then click FAQs there really good walk throughs! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: calowrey135
Rating: 3.3
Date: Dec 30, 2005 8:32 pm PT
Review:  Super Mario 64 Ds is an ok remake of a great nentindo game. it doesn't live up to the reputation 
 of the first. but there are some good things about it like you get to play as Luigi and Yoshi. 
 and there are more stars to collect. ultimatly this game has potetial to be a great game just to 
 many things that hold it back. like i aways say if your going to remake a game at least make it 
 a little better, if not alot better. so what im trying to say is it aoad of crap compaired to the 
 original Super Mario 64. you hear that people crap. So in conclution if you really miss the old 
 Mario then get it. but if not you should not waist tie or money. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: macky_7
Rating: 9.2
Date: Dec 30, 2005 3:53 am PT
Review:  This is the game that came with my DS and I played it for hours on end. The extra characters, when 
 I first heard about I thought it was a stupid idea, but when I played the game I realized it was 
 a good choice. The rabbits had a lot of hype for me wondering what was behind the door ( I am not 
 going to say what was behind there ) . The mini-games were just plain addicting!!! My one complaint 
 about this game is having a 3D game and having to use a D-Pad ( Man, I hated that ) !!!! However, 
 once you get used to that it's not so bad. Super Mario 64 WILL be one of the DS's classic games. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Yagami-Iori
Rating: 8.8
Date: Dec 29, 2005 9:47 pm PT
Review:  Super Mario 64 was the game that defined platforming in the new 3D era. It had wide open levels, 
 lots of replay value, thanks to trying to collect every star, and also kept the classic Mario feel 
 we all know & love. Well, for the DS, Nintendo has taken that classic game and changed it enough 
 to refresh the game, yet at the same time leave it close enough to the original to make it a great 
 pick-up for those that always wanted the original.
  
  Gameplay- 9- The gameplay stays pretty intact from the original game. It is a little switched up, 
 thanks to the fact that instead of the different powered hats, you now have 4 characters, but they 
 make up for it with character hats, with which you can use to get the power you need. Also, they 
 have added a LOT of touchscreen enabled mini games, which I have spent hours on just by themself.
 
  
  Graphics- 8- Updated from the original graphics, but nothing jaw-dropping here.
  
  Sound- 8- All the sound is presented clean & sharp
  
  Value- 9- The game, with all the star 
 collecting is long, and all the mini games give a lot of added value
  
  Tilt- 9- Its fun... lotsa fun... so 9/10 for tilt 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hargirl
Rating: 8
Date: Dec 28, 2005 10:35 am PT
Review:  the good: i really liked the minigames ( exept for luigis that were all casino) and i also liked 
 u could draw mario or yoshi at te begining of the game. i liked having to catch the bunnys exept 
 that they put some in imposible places to find. 
  
  the bad: the v. s. is a bit boring cause there are only 3 different places. they changed it alot 
 and if they would of done it like it originaly is (nintendo 64) it would be longer and funner. 
 the story is to short and u pass almost all the game saving mario , luigi and warrio. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ShpehDude
Rating: 8.9
Date: Dec 28, 2005 7:07 am PT
Review:  An addictive and attractive game, and a blast to play. The controls are messed up a bit so that 
 the character doesn't turn around to good when walking, and after jumping sometimes the character 
 will dash forward for no reason. The actual game is fun, and the mini-games are addictive and sometimes 
 maddening. The bosses are quirky and easy, and most of them tell you how to beat them, something 
 like "You'll never swing me around by my tail by making circles with the stylus on the touch screen!"-Bowser. 
 Altogether a highly fun, fast-paced adventure game with plenty of unlockables. Now all we need 
 is a bunny-catching device! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: unotfreshazimiz
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 27, 2005 9:54 pm PT
Review:  This is of course the remake of super mario 64 (one of the greatest platformers of all time) for 
 the ds. Nintendo should stick to making remakes. This game looks and feels like the original N64 
 game. This time around you can play as luigi wario mario and yoshi. Overall I was impressed with 
 the graphics. The ds provided us with some high quality graphics. Of course it doesnt compare with 
 the psp but its amazing. The world look and plays well. Its all that you could ever want from the 
 original.
  
  THE BAD
  I GOT FRUSTRATED with the camera. At times you are trying to move it and it gets stuck. The game 
 looks great but the camera could use plastic surgery. The contorls can be frustrating to. When 
 I was trying to do a triple jump I failed alot. That made me angry. aT TIMES SWEARING AT THE DS.
 
  
  BOTTOM LINE
  Thr graphics are solid. You can play as three chracters. Great touch mini games. Overall I had 
 minor problems but this game gets 4 stars out of five. A must have for all nintendo fans and ds 
 owners 
::::::

::::::
UserName: noxus9
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 26, 2005 6:01 pm PT
Review:  Characters: 8.9/10  along with the original Mario, comes Luigi, Wario and Yoshi. This gives players 
 a chance to play as one of their favourite characters other than Mario. Each character has a special 
 move. Players must finish somewhat hard challenges to unlock them.
  
  Graphics: 8.7/10  the graphics in this game are exactly the same as the N64 game which this game 
 is based on. 
  
  Sounds: 9/10  the sounds in the game are pretty nice and this games noises are pretty realistic. 
 The background music could use some work and some of the voices are annoying.
  
  Gameplay: 9.5/10  the game is quite fun and baddies arent too hard to beat. The things that kill 
 you the most in this game are the parts of the courses (i. e. lava, quicksand, whirlpools, falling 
 off cliffs etc.) .
  
  Lasting appeal: 9/10  with multiplayer, the rec room and other modes this game can be enjoyed 
 for years past its release.
  
  OVERALL: 9/10
  Verdict: Quite fun and has plenty of amusing modes and is worth your money.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Australia-
Rating: 9.4
Date: Dec 24, 2005 9:26 am PT
Review:  Super mario 64 was a great game with lots of memorable moments, now we have a remake of this great 
 game: Super Mario 64 DS. This is a remake of the classical version. It has lots of new features 
 such as multiplayer, the ability to choose different characters in single player, and very addicting 
 mini-games. Mario DS has an added 30 stars which makes for a total of 150 stars in the whole game. 
 There are lots of more secrets jammed into this game which makes for a great replay value. Even 
 if you didnt play the old super mario 64 I would absolutely reccomend this 
::::::

::::::
UserName: qrlineman51
Rating: 9.6
Date: Dec 23, 2005 3:35 pm PT
Review:  I'm 13 years old and Super Mario 64 for the N64 was the first game I ever played. It is what got 
 me into gaming. When I heard that it was going to be launched for the DS, I was excited. When I 
 bought it, I was surprised that there were many changes that had been added. I enjoyed that there 
 were more of the Power Stars to collect. I didn't like the fact that it had added Luigi, Wario, 
 and Yoshi to the game. It took the Super Mario out of Super Mario 64. The graphics were amazing, 
 much better than the original (Come on, Bowser looked like a retard.) The enemies all look better 
 and the environments have more resolution. The thing I loved so much about the first one was the 
 fact that it was so colorful. This new one took the color out of it and made it look like a regular 
 game. The sound is okay, but it's yet again your typical Nintendo kiddie music. Controlling your 
 character with the control pad is a very annoying addition to this game. The mini-games weren't 
 fun and were pointless in putting into this game.
  Don't get me wrong, I liked the DS version a lot, but it didn't give me that happy feeling I had 
 playing the first one. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Shinobisoma
Rating: 9.1
Date: Dec 23, 2005 10:37 am PT
Review:  This game was orginally for the N64 but now they remade 2x better than before after all it is on 
 DS. If you beaten the version for N64 then you must check this one out because it has so many new 
 things you can do ranging from usin different characters, new levels, new bosses, new ending. This 
 game is awesome in and really does look better than the N64 version compare the 2 different Marios. 
 If you have a DS and need a game to last a few weeks check this one out. THe multiplayer is alright 
 although i was not to impressed but a goo thing about the multiplayer is that it is single card 
 download play which means only one person needs a cartridge and you can play with up to 4 people. 
 I really enjoyed this game alot and i think its a good title to own if you have a DS. Super Mario 
 64 DS a classic reborn. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GamerPlayer914
Rating: 7.9
Date: Dec 22, 2005 8:05 pm PT
Review:  Super Mario 64 DS is an update to the classic Nintendo 64 game. This time players compete head-to-head 
 for the stars. The player with the most stars when time runs out wins. Or you can take control 
 of four different characters in the single player game. Pick this game up and be glued to your 
 DS for hours!
  
  Play as Mario, Yoshi, Luigi and even Wario. You'll need to use each one's unique abilities to find 
 150 Power Stars hidden in the castle and grounds. 
  
  * Play through Adventure mode and try your stylus-wielding hand at tons of new touch-sensitive 
 min-games. 
  
  * Battle up to three friends in Wireless Versus mode, which you can play with only one Super Mario 
 64 DS game card.
  
  Each of the four main characters has multiple jumping moves that cover great horizontal and vertical 
 distances. Each has unique moves: Yoshi can eat enemies and turn them into eggs that he can throw; 
 Mario can punch, kick and wall-jump to great heights; super-strong Wario can break certain blocks; 
 and Luigi can jump incredibly high. Power Flowers give each character even cooler powers, like 
 invisibility, fire breath or the power to float through the air. Answering an invitation, Mario, 
 Luigi and Wario set out for a royal party with Princess Peach. When they arrive at the castle, 
 though, they find it strangely empty. Meanwhile, Yoshi awakes from a rooftop nap to find the castle 
 eerily silent, with Mario, Luigi and Wario nowhere to be seen. Yoshi soon discovers that Bowser 
 has pilfered the castle's Power Stars and imprisoned the Toads in the castle's immense collection 
 of paintings. It's up to the dynamic dino to figure out what happened to Mario, Luigi and Wario 
 and save the day. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Maluigi
Rating: 9.3
Date: Dec 22, 2005 5:37 pm PT
Review:  Mario is back on the same adventure that he was in the 90's, but this time he's on the DS with 
 Yoshi, Luigi, and Wario. The game is pretty much like the original, but each character is needed 
 if you want to get all the stars. Each character has their own talents and specials. Wario can 
 become Metal Wario, Yoshi can spit fire, Luigi can walk through certain objects, and mario can 
 glide through the air. The mini-games are part of the game that make it so great. Using the touch 
 screen, you can play tons of many games, and they are Awesome! AWESOME! The game's graphics are 
 pretty good, along with its gameplay and music, but without the control stick, like on the previous 
 game, it's a little harder to go in a certain direction. Overall, Mario and friends succeed in 
 bringing back the 90's, and what old-school games can really do when their potential is unlocked 
 a little more. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Emerging-XIII
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 21, 2005 7:07 pm PT
Review:  OOOOOOOOOO OOOOOO OOOOOOO OOOOOOOOOOOO
  O O O O O O O
  O O O O O O O
  O OOO O O O O O O
  O O O O O O O O
  OOOOOOOOO OOOOOO OOOOOOO OOOOOOOOOOOO
  
  ITS GOOD I 
 LOVE IT. FREAKIN AWSOME. YEA GRAFIX RULE. GAMEPLAY AWSOME. SOUND SWEET. REALLY FUN GAME. BUY IT 
 NOW. **** NOWWWWWWWWW NOW I SAY NOW!!!!!!! IF U DONT YOULL REGRET IT AND IM SRY FOR THE ALL CAPS 
 I GOT BORD VERY BORD. BUT BUY THIS GAME ITS REALLY FUN. IF U LIKE MARIO U SHOULD GET THIS GAME 
 1 BCUZ ITS HANDHELD 2 BECUZ ITS FREAKIN AWSOME AND 3 BECUZ I SAID NOW BUY IT. NOW 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SmashAndRun
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 21, 2005 12:15 pm PT
Review:  Obviously the Nintendo 64 version must have been a hit for Nintendo to put this action and adventure 
 packed game to the DS. This game is a hit with its three-dozen mini-games that use the touch screen. 
 Read on for more information.
  
  Starting out as Yoshi, you must rescue Mario as he rescues Luigi as he rescues Wario. This game 
 has150 stars for you to collect on your adventure to defeat Bowser and get Princess Toadstool (Peach) 
 back from his evil hands. Plus there are more courses to play on with seven stars on each. There 
 are also castle secret stars that you have to find.
  
  To get the mini-games, you must catch many rabbits. (Yes, you have to work for them.) The good 
 part is that the rabbits are not that hard to find. Its worth it, playing the mini-games on the 
 touch screen and all. There are eight special glowing rabbits that appear after you get 80 stars. 
 Catch one to get something. Catch all eight and get something even better. 
  
  If you have played the N64 version there wont be many different surprises for you. But if you 
 havent played it on N64, youre in for a wild and whacked up adventure.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Hatreds_Love
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 19, 2005 9:33 pm PT
Review:  This is a great game. The additions to it are brilliant and it has to be one of the best launch 
 titles for the Nintendo DS. The story mode is fun and at sometime challenging. The boss battles 
 are kind of a letdown but the final battle and some of the stars will keep you occupied. There 
 is plenty of levels to play on, each giving a new setting, rich in detail. The graphics are amazing, 
 some of the best I've seen for the Nintendo DS thus far. It has great replay value and if your 
 looking for an all-around good game, go for this one. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: blacktwister
Rating: 8.8
Date: Dec 19, 2005 8:51 am PT
Review:  As far as fun, addictin, and a great ressurection of an old N64 game, this game is simply amazing! 
 It has mini-games (Best mini-games Nintendo has ever made!!!) , some new levels, and you can play 
 as Wario, Yoshi, Mario, and Luigi. The learning curve however, does total up to about an hour; 
 it never explains the controls; ever! This is a struggle, since at the very begining you are alerted 
 (As Yoshi) That the other three Mario friends have gone missing. As you eagerly begin your adventure 
 into the castle you recieve more bad news... a rabbit has stolen the keys to the castle, so now 
 you must go on a (difficult) cat and mouse chase, not knowing the controls (or that you must use 
 your tounge action to make him surender) (don't ask) . If you want to ever relive the chase (yay!) 
 Nintendo always leaves some bunnies that have mini-game keys in them. Once your past the learning 
 curve however, this game goes back to fairly positive, (other then the underwater levels, another 
 learning curve on how to swim) . I would like to point out now, if your the type of person (like 
 me) who simply loves when all the controls on a game are used by only the stylus, you'll be disappointed. 
 If your left handed you clearly have an advantage with the controls, of course, if you don't use 
 the stylus at all, the controls are fine. 
  
  However, 
  
  In some levels your required to run instantly, creep slowly, or walk with presice movements. Unfortunately, 
 Running cammands don't start instantly, it is very difficult to creep, and precise movements are 
 half-impossable running, walking, or creeping! 
  
  Now onto multiplayer: 
  
  (I have yet to find a parter to actially try multiplayer, but the game lets you play multi by yourself!) 
 It seems like a great idea, and really seems like fun, yet thats all I can say, as I have yet to 
 find a parter to actially try multi.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Ejacko
Rating: 5.9
Date: Dec 18, 2005 2:34 pm PT
Review:  The game itself is great, but ive have played it before (on N64) 
  So it got boring after a while. 
  
  But the big letdown was the Ice-Bully boss (at the free 
 Wario stage) 
  He is so difficult, you almost tos the ds around. 
  Wen you finally have beat him down, he just jumps up again. 
  So you must beat him tree times. 
 At the third time, he breaks big pieces of the platform, so the aiming truly IS IMPOSSIBLE. 
  
  The biggest disappointment, is the multiplayer thing (is you could cal it that) 
  30 sec at 
 4 stages? Nintendo was a bit greedy there! 
  They could at least give us some more time to play around than 30 sec. 
  I even thought we could 
 play the story mode with four players, but no. 
  
  And about the analog simulator. 
  Everybody is complaining about it, but that was actually the best controller in the game. You have 
 to "lift and replace" allot, but that price im willing to pay. 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: T_Magdi
Rating: 8.1
Date: Dec 18, 2005 10:27 am PT
Review:  Rayman Advance was so bad... Because it was a remake. 'Same with this one?' I say in a puff voice. 
 I pick the game, goto the car and play... and play. It is very good! Okay, so it is not GREAT, 
 but the graphics are like the PSP's and the time it takes you to play is wonderful. My first Nintendo 
 DS game is actully a good game. Mario 64 made you play as Mario only. Now you can play as four 
 charcters at a time... That is amazing. Also, the game is as huge as the first N64 game, and the 
 map is, most of the time, useful. Just the game is made hard. I only unlocked Mario, and that is 
 simply 8 stars and a simple boss to unlock him...
  The storyline has been great. Yoshi is great in the beginning, and Mario, playing with Luigi and 
 Wario is funny, especally when Mario and Luigi run around and bash each other... and goes to the 
 castle, and simply.. Dissapers.
  
  Every needs to buy it, although it is good renting it, because the gameplay isn't fantastic... 
 It is solid. But still, what a game do you need when you can play the crap N64 way (Ooo, this game 
 is so good I said the other old game is crap!) Or play the true future.
  
  The good: Funny storyline, good graphics, goos sound; character models are brilliant.
  The bad: 
 Solid Gameplay; rock-hard gameplay, overall is good, but not great.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: morales664
Rating: 9.6
Date: Dec 16, 2005 4:15 pm PT
Review:  Super Mario 64 DS, by far one of the best looking launch DS games. I know what you're thinking, 
 "Didn't I beat this on the N64?" Yes you may have beaten it on the N64, but the revamped DS version 
 is stll worth a look-see, especially with it's $29.99 price tag, as compared with the other launch 
 titles ($39.99, $49.99) . 
  
  The new features in the game make up where It lacks, single cartrige multiplayer, unlockable touch 
 screen mini games, the additional charactors and levels, and even that little drawing game at the 
 main menu. The multiplayer is simple, you and your other DS buddies run around in different levels 
 collecting stars. Sounds simple enough right. Have four people playng and it quckly becomes a competative 
 frenzy. The mini games are simple, but still offer hours of touch screen fun. From matching cards, 
 and bouncing marios, to rolling smowballs, these minigames won't be left alone by anyone planning 
 on getting this game.
  
  Overall the gameplay of the origional parts of the game are much the same, with the exception of 
 hidden rooms and missions, and the additional characters. The mini games are fun and make good 
 use of the touch screen, this game will provide hours of non-stop gameplay. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Fontes_Makua
Rating: 8.6
Date: Dec 16, 2005 12:17 pm PT
Review:  And this is one of them. When we thought that the original Mario 64 on the N64 couldn't get any 
 better, it comes back with LOADS of extras, making this not just a remake, but almost a new game 
 for itself!
  
  The graphics are COMPLETELY different, with new 3D models for the characters, and refreshed textures 
 for the maps.
  
  The sound stays the same, which didn't needed to be changed...
  
  Gameplay is a little bit affected because of the lack of an analog stick on the DS... but there 
 are some times when you THANK for it... the touch screen is a lot more precise, to go through narrow 
 passages, such as small bridges, and stuff like that.
  
  And there's more... As you go through the game, you will be able to unlock more and more mini-games, 
 making a total of... ehm...
  
  *turns on the DS, to count them...*
  
  ... 9 mini-games per character... 4 characters... This makes 36 mini-games to unlock... Too bad 
 some of the games kinda look like each other... But hey, they're still fun to play, if you get 
 tired of the main adventure mode... I spend HOURS playing in the Luigi Poker... lol 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Tekmazter
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 16, 2005 11:56 am PT
Review:  Seeing how this is pretty much a port of the original Mario 64, my review of this game relies more 
 on how the game makes the jump from console to portable while keeping all that made the original 
 so great, still intact. Does M64-DS do this?
  
  YES
  
  The good here is that it looks just like the original and gameplay works to be just about the same. 
 Levels, storyline ... they all line up. In fact, the only place I am hard pressed to take points 
 away from the DS version of this game is in fact the control of your character. Due to the lack 
 of options on the DS control pad, you're pretty much limited in some regard to just how well you 
 can control your character. This IS a noticeable difference from the original on N64 and can take 
 some extra time to get the hang of when moving through the game. Other than that however, this 
 is a sure-fire hit with all that loved the original M64.
  
  Gameplay: great!
  Graphics: great!
  Replay: same as before --great!
  Sound: great -a resounding kudo to the DS 
 speaker setup here too! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Lugiania
Rating: 8.3
Date: Dec 13, 2005 12:46 pm PT
Review:  I played the Nintendo 64 Version, and This.
  Even though most the Music and Levels didn't have much of a difference, It was still quite good. 
 
  
  Collecting the Stars after you defeat Bowser is fun too, adding 30 more was a grand Idea. ^_^ Even 
 Though I haven't found all of them yet. XD
  
  Being able to play as 4 people, with unique abilitys and move sets was great! :D And shapeshifting 
 using caps in the middle of stages was a very nice idea ^^ 
  
  And the Mini-Games, I could just play these for hours... I say Luigi's is the most addictive. The 
 Luck and Chance games always were Brilliant; although slot Machine was annoying. x_x
  
  Being able to play on VS was a bit of a waste, considering so few Nintendo DS users live in my 
 area.  _  
  
  Well, to those Mario fans I'd highly reccomend this awesome DS Game. =. D
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: geekg65
Rating: 9.2
Date: Dec 13, 2005 11:50 am PT
Review:  Mario! This revival of an ancient classic comes around extremely well, even for Nintendo, and by 
 this proves that not only can old-school become new wave, but that Nintendo is a really damn good 
 game company.
  
  Graphics
  
  The graphics in SM64DS are as good as such on the GameCube, if not better. Every character and 
 environment is wonderfully textured, down to the microbe on the amoeba on the flea on the left 
 wing of the butterfly in Princess Peach's garden. If I had a penny for every time I could mention 
 something graphic-related that made this game so wonderful, I would be the next-gen Bill Gates.
 
  
  Gameplay
  
  Gameplay hasn't gotten any better than this. Not only does the game play along an interesting storyline, 
 but is filled with mind-boggling (and in some cases, mindless) entertainment. The objective of 
 the game is to collect all 150 stars (30 more than the original SM64) by completing missions and 
 tasks in secret worldsAnd playing the game is only half the fun. As you progress through the game, 
 you unlock entertaining mini-games for each player, and you can spend hours looking through these.
 
  
  Sound
  
  The sound is... okay. The sound is very rich and crisp for what it's cracked up to be, but the 
 sound in SM64DS can be a little unrealistic at times.
  
  Replay Value
  
  Absobleepinglutely. This game is worth playing over and over and over again, since 80 stars is 
 the absolute minimum for winning the game. There are secret courses to unlock, secret stars to 
 collect, and a whole array of mini-game rabbits to find.
  
  Rent, buy or throw in microwave?
  
  Not everyone's so much for Mario, but a lot of people are. 
 So if this sounds good, buy it. If it sounds okay, rent it. If it sounds bad, rent it still, or 
 I'll throw you in the microwave for thirty seconds. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: vaskodogama
Rating: 9.3
Date: Dec 13, 2005 5:16 am PT
Review:  This game made a lot of fun for me, I Love it, I played it Days and Nights Working on getting the 
 stars, or the REC Room Keys to Play Mini-games, even I had a lot of fightings with my Friends about 
 the mini-games, Who plays now, who has the first Rank, and etc.....
  
  This game has a GREAT story, make you Love the characters even if you hate the Role-Playing Games, 
 I say that cuz I am a Action Game Player, who is playing MGS, GTA, Gun, Resident Evil and etc....
 
  
  Get this game if you are willing to:
  
  1) HAVE FUN ALL THE TIME.....
  2) Have a lot of playing time
  3) Wanna have the Best a RolePlaying game.
  4) Know the character 
 of Mario Family and Yushi and Mushroom Kingdom
  5) Be a Nintendo Fan
  6) Love your DS
  
  And a Lot of things..... Just Try it, MARIO ROCKS........
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: games5522
Rating: 8.1
Date: Dec 13, 2005 3:03 am PT
Review:  Now lets get this straight: Super Mario 64 DS isn't going to be just as good as the original N64 
 game. And lets face it: Why does Nintendo keep porting it's games from one console to another? 
 It's their way of introducing younger players to games made before they were born.
  
  Now that we've gotten that out of the way, let's get to the good bits. I do like the new minigames, 
 my favourites are that one where you shoot balls at the bob-ombs, and luigi's slot machine, that's 
 a good one. My favourite level in the game is whomps' fortress because a big slab of concrete is 
 the end of level boss.
  
  But, as with any game, there are some bad parts: the camera is a bit screwed up. Also, the lack 
 of any good analouge control makes it a bit harder to do things, or in my case, a little bit easier. 
 I've finished the game on DS in less than a month with only 80 stars, but when I played it on the 
 N64, it was very hard for me to defeat bowser for the 3rd time. At least i can play 3d games with 
 a d-pad better than an analouge.
  
  The 3d graphics are also a treat. Mario and the environment look better, despite not having texture 
 filturing.
  
  So, in conclusion, I think Super Mario 64 DS is slightly, only slightly better than Super Mario 
 64 on the Nintendo 64. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Goten_king
Rating: 9.1
Date: Dec 12, 2005 5:29 pm PT
Review:  This game was a real blast, especially for it being prepackaged. Thats a total plus. I was lucky 
 enough to get it with my DS for only 129.99 because they still had a few in stock, but they already 
 changed the prices, lucky me. but anyway. Just so you know, i never Owned Mario 64 for the N64, 
 but i was at my friends every other day playing it. I also downloaded it on my emulator recently 
 so i do know what the old one was like. Id have to say the DS version is much better. the graphics 
 lose the blur the N64 had and take on teh more sharp polygon look, which is just fine with me. 
 It reminds me more of a PSX with a little better graphics. 
  Anyway, gameplay is really good. Keeps you going for quite a while. The hat thing is nice since 
 you can play as Yoshi, Mario, Luigi and Wario. the only thing I miss is Metal Mario. I mean that 
 was like the Mario 64 trade mark for me. But other than that, really good. And dont believe people 
 who say you can control without analog. Its super easy, maybe easier... You can make just as precise 
 with the speed adjustment. To me, its just as easy. Others argue, but o well. Yeah, umm lets see. 
 
  The minigames are a very welcome addition to actually use the touch screen. They are pretty fun 
 over all and are a bit addicting. i love the casino one, i love poker! lol but they are all nicely 
 dont over all
  The Multiplayer is just to display the whole, one catridge multi wireless play, but its very.. 
 how should i put it... boring, and it isnt very compelling. But its a nice feature none the less. 
 
  The game is easy to pick up and play. You dont need much learning. You wont need advanced moves 
 until later so thats good. Also its can be fun to just jump around and play.
  It does tend to get boring once you get EVERY stage star.. but the bonus stars are fun to try and 
 find. You will probably need a guide to get all 150 stars, but it can still be fun. 
  Overall i think this is a good game especially for launch. If you failed to get the bundle, i would 
 suggest getting it anyway... its really a great game. I just wish it had a time clock to show how 
 long you played, ive always been curious... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bennyrobo
Rating: 8.3
Date: Dec 12, 2005 1:34 am PT
Review:  All-round this is a solid game, it was my first for DS (due to it being the only good title at 
 launch) but i found about a quarter of the way through a lack of substance in the levels.
  
  At first its just great to see this classic in your hand but as you get higher the tasks get 
 a bit tedious.
  
  But lets not focus on the possible only downfall of the game.
  
  The graphics are great (for DS) and using the stylus if fun but you find yourself adjusting the 
 camera angle very often.
  
  Beating bosses provides satisfaction as does collecting stars (if you dont remember, your not a 
 true gamer)
  The main reason this game goes so well, portably (is that a word?) is because it is one of the 
 greatest of all time.
  The sound is also fresh and loud (which is a refreshing change to PSP sound)
  What makes this 
 game great is a combination of three things which Nintendo have done brilliantly, (sound, gameplay, 
 graphics) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: shear1017
Rating: 8.3
Date: Dec 10, 2005 11:45 am PT
Review:  Super Mario 64 ds is a remake of an N64 title. the graphics have improved with lots of new features. 
 There are 3 new playable character and new minigames which use the touch screen for control. The 
 platforming is the same but the game is fun. The multiplayer is also great with the single card 
 download play. With 150 stars and minigames, the game has much to offer. The graphic are beautiful 
 and the envirments are great looking. For a launch title any mario fan will have to buy it is great 
 wheather you played for the N64 or noot there is so much to do. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: JetStreak
Rating: 6.8
Date: Dec 9, 2005 2:28 pm PT
Review:  This is obviously a remake from the Super Mario 64 that was well overplaye for me.
  
  There are a few things that have changed - but it still resembles it.. This was the best launch 
 ttile for the DS (the way I look at it) .
  
  If you are a Mario fan and own a DS this is a must have.
  
  With the Touchscreen - this is 
 almost impossible to move around.. You almost have to set the movement to your DPAD in order to 
 play this game successfuly.. Which ruins the whole point when it comes to the DS. You're suppost 
 to feel like you are in total control with the touchscreen; however it is the total opposite.. 
 Sometimes you have to move your finger up and down to get him to move.. and that fact is - he doesn't 
 run as fast as he does when you use the DPAD. This makes it impossible to win some parts of the 
 game - like the races. 
  
  If you're into the multiplayer - it has everything that your going to need to have countless hours 
 of fun. This is a game that you can play over and over without ever really getting 'bored of it'.. 
 Although it isn't that long of a game - it is worthwhile.
  
  It's definately worth checking out!
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: natejmc12
Rating: 8
Date: Dec 8, 2005 5:51 pm PT
Review:  Mario on ds is pretty good. I was amazed to see the graphics turn out to look good because other 
 ds games graphics are crapy!! I only played Mario Ds 1 time and i had to you the touch screen just 
 to move!! whats up with that? I don't know if you can switch the controls or what! But this game 
 was a fresh start intill all these other crapy games came out for the nintendo ds, i was really 
 mad the way nintendo did the burnout legends! get it for Psp not ds. So i give Mario Ds a 7.9. 
 If your a ds owner and loves mario get it. But not, i say stick with Mario Sunshine!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: benboz
Rating: 9.8
Date: Dec 8, 2005 12:02 am PT
Review:  This is a really good game on DS. Super Mario was on N64 until the DS came out and Super Mario 
 DS came on it. It's good because it's portable. Super Mario is a real great classic game on DS 
 with the levels and the villians and it is excellent. Mario is everybody's favourite Nintendo character. 
 Is that correct? If not your missing something with gaming. Mario is a great Nintendo character 
 because he has alot of cool games and he really is a great hero. So gamers out there who don't 
 like Mario then your totally missing out on the greats games of Mario and you will be missing something 
 in gaming. I didn't use to like Mario until my friend let me play his DS with the game Super Mario 
 DS and I enjoy the game so I brought a DS and Super Mario DS game. See gamers you will like Mario 
 if you play his games. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SpeedRunnerx
Rating: 8.3
Date: Dec 4, 2005 10:03 pm PT
Review:  This game is indeed Mario 64. Despite the hardware differences between the Nintendo 64 and Nintendo 
 DS, Nintendo managed to make the game look somewhat better than the original. If you want a portable 
 version of Mario 64, as well as large amount of content added in, then look no further.
  
  With a combination of the D-pad and the touch screen (which works very well) you should be able 
 to get all the stars and accomplish all the goals in the game. Take note that, the Nintendo DS 
 is not a Nintendo 64 controller and the controls in the game fall short. This will cause you frustration 
 from time to time. 
  
  The gameplay is just as good as the original. What they did with this is game is add a host of 
 mini-games, characters, levels and boss fights. There are new places to explore and new missions 
 to complete. There is a clear amount of content added to the game to justify a purchase.
  
  The sound is pretty much unchanged. There doesn't seem to be any decrease in the quality of sound 
 from the N64 version except for some of the character's voices (notibly bowser's laugh) .
  
  The mini-games are fun and will provide you with a few extra hours of enjoyment. The new boss fights 
 are interesting and the addition of new levels is a definite plus for this game. I didn't like 
 starting off with Yoshi that much, but I do like how when you have all 4 characters unlocked it 
 really enriches the experience. Overall, I would say that this is a fun and worthwhile game for 
 both fans of the original and newcomers alike. Pick it up. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bwolf92
Rating: 9.3
Date: Dec 4, 2005 3:46 pm PT
Review:  Super Mario 64 is simply a VERY good game. It's just so jam-packed and exploding fun that it cannot 
 be ignored. Out from Day 1 of the DS, Mario 64 showed off the great graphics, gameplay, new features 
 and well everything about the DS perfectly. There's new mini-games th play around with and a small 
 little (but fun) drawing game. You can team up (or go against) four other players in multiplayer 
 (fun but not kinda boring) . Oh yeah and the actual game. There's now 150 stars to find so good 
 luck (I'm not even close) . Otherwise it's still the great game that everyone knows it as. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tbbucs1993
Rating: 6
Date: Dec 3, 2005 6:08 pm PT
Review:  I was gonna die! The game is so repitive that you can't play this game for 10 hours! I tried to 
 give it a chance, but It did not help AT ALL! The only fun I had with this game was with the mini-games. 
 Don't pick up this game, get Mario Kart instead or you could even get wario-ware (not bad actually) 
 and even PIc Pax (one of the worst games ever) is better! a a a a a a a a a a aa a aa a a a a a 
 aa a a a a a aa a a a a a 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TomJarvis
Rating: 9.1
Date: Dec 3, 2005 4:35 am PT
Review:  Mario 64 was an amazing game when it was released for the N64. It was fun to play kept you going 
 and made you think differently about platform games.
  When it was re-released with the Nintendo DS with improved graphics, more characters to play as, 
 more stars and even some minigames I thought you just made a great game better Nintendo well done.
 
  Mario was the main character in the last game but this features Luigi, Yoshi and even Wario, each 
 with a unique move.
  Mario's being he can use wings and bloat up like a balloon.
  Luigi has his invisibilty and the ability to walk through bars while invisible.
  Yoshi has his 
 fire breath
  While Wario can become a heavy metal freak.
  This game holds many surprises that I won't let slip but while playing the game you may accidentaly 
 end up earning yourself another star you didn't even know was there. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: _Burly_
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 1, 2005 9:31 pm PT
Review:  After the swarm of reviews this DS giant has received, I'll keep it to a minimum and touch on the 
 new features incorporated into the game. First off, the mini-games are the definite reason Mario 
 64 DS has caused such an outburst of satisfaction; well that, and the superb game play the original 
 already had. Together, the mini games and main story mode work perfectly together, each providing 
 relief from each other when either one gets boring. Finding rabbits can be more rewarding than 
 finding stars most of the time, considering every rabbit you find adds more replay value onto the 
 game. As for the graphics, they're a nice, subtle update that can easily be over looked if you 
 haven't played the original in awhile. The sound may be a slight bit worse than the original, but 
 since there's no telling what the DS's sound can handle yet, the sound is mostly as amazing as 
 it was back in the day. Though the touch screen definitely doesn't handle as well as just moving 
 a joy-stick, you'll practically be navigating the 4 main Mario characters like a pro in a few hours.
 
  
  If you weren't born in time to experience the awe that came from the introduction of the new generation 
 of consoles, then you need to ask your mom to buy this for you now! Otherwise, it's just a no brainer 
 for everyone who experienced the game its first round through our hearts.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: DanTheManAus
Rating: 8.4
Date: Dec 1, 2005 6:49 pm PT
Review:  When I first saw the ads on TV for Super Mario 64, which showed Mario in a completely 3D world 
 for the first time, I was blown away. This game truly was revolutionary, and the defining moment 
 for the 3D Platforming genre. The sensation of immersion in another world was unlike anything I 
 had experienced in video games before, and to this day I dont think Ive experienced a game that 
 has completely blown my mind like this one did.
  
  The gameplay, graphics and sound really were essentially flawless, and with over a hundred stars 
 to collect, there was enormous value to be had. At the time of its release, it really was a must-own 
 title for absolutely anyone who enjoyed video games. I really cant say enough about how delightful 
 this game was to experience.
  
  Recently I have been playing the DS version which already brings with it quite a sense of nostalgia. 
 While the control is nowhere near as sharp as the N64 version, its still a highly enjoyable experience 
 and very cool to be able to play one of the greatest games of all time anywhere, anytime, in the 
 palm of your hand.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Superzone
Rating: 7.9
Date: Nov 30, 2005 5:49 pm PT
Review:  One of the first games to be released for the Nintendo DS, Super Mario 64 DS is a great update 
 of one of the best games ever released for the Nintendo 64. It looks better then the original version, 
 but it could have looked even better. The sound is exactly the same as the original and brings 
 back good old memories. You definetly get what you paid for, not only will the story mode take 
 a long time to beat, but the added mini-games are so much fun that they could have their own DS 
 game if there was a few more of them. The biggest flaw of the game is the dull multiplayer mode. 
 Sure, you only need one game card, but there is only 4 levels to play on and only one mode to play. 
 Talk about boring. Overall, Super Mario 64 DS is a great DS game that stays true to the original 
 without ruining much and is a great game for Nintendo's handheld. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MarioRPGer
Rating: 8.8
Date: Nov 30, 2005 3:11 pm PT
Review:  Gameplay-The N64 was an excellent system. One of the things that made it so excellent was the lovely 
 analog stick. Boy was it fun, just winging Mario around on that old thing. Gee willickers, jolly 
 good times indeed. Now the same game is playable on the DS which does not have an analog stick.
 
  
  Super Mario 64+no joy stick=problems
  
  Sure it is still fun running old Mario around, especially on a handheld, but the D-pad just isnt 
 the right thing for our 3-D pal. Oh and dont go anywhere near the touch character control. Ew. Even 
 though the D-pad does pose some problems this game is incredibly fun and grows on you, once you 
 get the controls down, your in for one heck of a game.
  
  Graphics-Sweet
  
  Sound-Same old thing, and thats definitly a good thing.
  
  Value-Being a launch title and a 
 Mario game, Nintendo started off strong releasing this awesome and impressive update. Just buy it 
 for crying out loud.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: 999eL
Rating: 8.7
Date: Nov 30, 2005 10:22 am PT
Review:  Mario 64 was always a game I was fond of, but never actually got round to buying. On hearing it 
 as one of the ds release titles I bought it instantly. Seeing the titles and game action as my 
 first idea as to how immense the dss graphics were, was amazing and still is. The games graphics 
 seem ever so slightly smother than the n64 version and has a map too. As the game is a copy of 
 a ground breaking game the standards are the same, but to add to the action Nintendo has added 
 3 other characters in the form of, Wario, Luigi and yoshi. Having never played the game before I 
 wouldnt know the difference but the storyline and objectives were unaffected by the characters. 
 As well as added characters the cart features loads of mini games that use the ds to its full potential 
 and can be unlocked through out the game and after. Maybe this is to compensate for the games lack 
 of innovation. But as a straight forward platform, the game stands proud. It handles well to, and 
 the thumb strap works well as a joystick substitute. But completing the game second time round 
 with the d-pad works well too. The sound quality and theme of the music does well to create an 
 atmosphere and complements the graphics. With servile brightly coloured individual worlds to complete 
 the missions can become addictive.
  
  The game isnt a masterpiece but is well worth the money, especially to others like me, who have 
 never played mario64 before. The replay is good and for a substantial game you can go about things 
 differently, although there isnt much new second time round. I would recommend it to beginners 
 as well, as its user friendly and is a great way to introduce the dss capabilities.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: firebladedx
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 28, 2005 3:30 am PT
Review:  A overall enjoyable game. The graphics have improved so much since the DS version. The general 
 gameplay is great though the touch screen controls are nearly impossible. The mini games are classics 
 ive found myself ignoring the main game and just spending hours on the mini games. The graphics 
 on mario are nearly 128 bit, compared to the 64 bit previously.
  Its a definate must have and makes a perfect partner to mario kart DS. The addition of 3 new characters 
 is again another very welcome change. Each with their own special ability such as yoshi's tongue, 
 Wario fat haha and luigi's erm ghost powers.
  Overall i highly recommend this game to anyone who owns a DS, the mini games contribute the touch 
 screen of the DS perfectly. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: FutureDeveloper
Rating: 8.7
Date: Nov 27, 2005 6:51 pm PT
Review:  Well, the DS is out, and Super Mario 64 DS has arrived. Of course you know that this game started 
 the 3D gaming revolution in '96 and it is great to get to play it again on a handheld. The core 
 game is still fully in tact, as are the sounds, graphics, and Mario's Woo-hoo's, Yippee's, and 
 Mamma Mia's. This time however, there are 4 playable characters that you must unlock. These characters 
 (Luigi, Yoshi, and Wario) each have different skills for different situations. This is actually 
 slightly annoying, as you have to switch occasionally to complete a task. (Which can only be done 
 in one room) The bottom screen displays a map, which is incredibly handy when exploring the game's 
 big levels. In terms of control, the game does pretty good, but it still isn't too refined. For 
 some odd and useless reason, holding down the X button causes your character to build up a dash, 
 which never comes in handy. But, for the most part, it's more than manageable. The graphics are 
 even better than the 64 version, and are very pleasing. The sound is all there, just how you remember 
 it, and sounds great with headphones. Included in the game are several minigames played with the 
 touchscreen which you have to unlock. (Yes, they are addictiing) The only glaring flaw of Mario 
 64 DS is the crummy multiplayer, which you shouldn't even bother with. To this day, Mario 64 remains 
 fun and immersive. Pick it up. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Paratroopah
Rating: 9.1
Date: Nov 27, 2005 11:02 am PT
Review:  Super Mario 64 DS is a great game. It was super on the N64 but now it's even better with great 
 new functions. The new thing that I like the most are the minigames. When you unlocked them all 
 you have over 30 minigames!
  
  Super Mario 64 DS begins the same as the N64 version with Peach invite you to the castle to eat 
 some cake. This time, Mario brings 2 of his friends, Wario and Luigi. The 3 of them go in and then 
 you see Yoshi sleeping on the roof. After a while, Yoshi gets waked up by Lakitu (that thing on 
 the cloud) and tells him that Mario and the rest didnt return. You, as Yoshi, need to find them.
 
  
  In the N64 version, you had 120 stars. Now you have 150 stars to find. In each level there is a 
 new star and there are actually new levels. With the addition of 30 stars, the game is more challenging.
 
  
  But there is one flaw. Cause the game is fully 3D and you dont have an analog stick but a pad, 
 you will fall off ledges and such more often.
  
  So with the exeption of one flaw, this game is very good! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Ratchetcomand
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jan 31, 2006 12:59 pm PT
Review:  I played super mario 64 back when i was 6 years old, i was one of the best games around for quite 
 a while. The DS version has made it even better! The graphics are amazingly much better and up 
 to date. You don; t only get to be mario, but luigi, wario and even YOSHI! There are 30 more stars 
 to colect (how do they fit this all onto one little cartridge?) and the game includes bonus minigames 
 using the the touch screen. In the mini-game rooms there are bonus levels aswell that just ad to 
 the fun. With all the classic elements there, the DS version of the game is an improvement on an 
 almost perfect game. With clean graphics, great game play, and awesome sound Mario 64 DS is definitely 
 a must-have.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: reedler1234
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 25, 2005 11:41 am PT
Review:  This game is a remake of the original super mario 64 which was on the nintendo 64, which was a 
 classic game, it was amazing, but on the DS, they found a way of making that game even better, 
 they added more stars and keys and hidden things that will keep you glued to this game for hours.
 
  
  This game has all of the same stars as before, except 30 more and the ability to play as mario, 
 wario, luigi or yoshi, which is great fun, they each have their own abilities and changes some 
 of the gameplay which is nice. also there are more secret stars which take long to find and in 
 the levels, there are now 7 standard stars. also you can do all the original moves well on this.
 
  
  The touch screen works well with this game, its easy to move the character and its not complicated 
 at all, its very simple and it good fun to play with, also this game is fun to play breifly when 
 you have a few minutes to burn, youll almost always find something new in a level or find some 
 other random level.
  
  This game's noises works very well with surround sound, it sounds nice and some of the music has 
 been made better, a few of the levels have a revamped soundtrack which is always nice, there is 
 also some more dialogue and stuff, this game sounds very good.
  
  youll play this game forever, its a classic, you cant get tired of this game, there is no end to 
 the fun on this game, you must get it if youre a fan of the game, even if you finished the previous 
 one. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: zacho666
Rating: 9.3
Date: Nov 24, 2005 6:31 pm PT
Review:  Ok, Let me be honest. I have never really been a Mario fan myself. Super Mario 64 was really the 
 only one I payed attention to. I had got my DS for Christmas 2004. I had no games and the only 
 thing I could do was talk to myself on pictochat and beat the Metroid Prime Hunters Demo over and 
 over again. I was getting bored. Seeing as how my local Zellers just got their new shipment of 
 DS games I decided to get the cheapest one there because of my tight budget. I decided upon the 
 Super Mario 64 DS. I brought it home and started the entertainment........
  
  Gameplay:
  Now this is probably one of the downsides of this game. Trying to walk around on the screen with 
 a heavy DS in one hand and the stylus in the other is a little bit of a pain. It gets very tiring 
 on your hands. After you find out how to use the D-pad and buttons it is alot easier and less tiring 
 on your hands! The only thing that the stylus is really good for in this game is changing the angles 
 off the screen. No Biggie. One of my favourites of the whole game is the idea of the Mini Games. 
 Hours upon Hours of fun with these. Pinball, matching, roulette, more than enough to fill your 
 fun on a plane flight from Canada to the other side of the U. S and back! Overall the gameplay is 
 great though. More stars to obtain, A variety of characters, More levels, Etc. Thumbs up!
  
  Graphics:
  I am imagining that most of you reading this have played Super Mario 64, for the 
 N64. Well the graphics for the DS certainly demolish those of the N64. Especially for Super Mario. 
 It has outstanding graphics and most certainly lives up to it's standards. It uses most of its 
 capability for the graphics. Most of the corners are smooth with rare blocky appearences. Great 
 Graphics!!
  
  Sound:
  The sound in this game is pretty close to the same as the one for N64. The characters voices sound 
 he same when they punch... (well Mario's at least) And the sound when he falls are the same. The 
 music is pretty much the same also. It was nice to hear the harsh voice of Wario though ^^! Not 
 bad sound overall.
  
  Value:
  For its price..... HIGHLY RECOMMENDED FOR YOU HARDCORE NINTENDO MARIO FANS and for you people who 
 just want to have some fun. Buy this game and you won't be dissapointed! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hotness101
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 24, 2005 5:31 am PT
Review:  I liked this game you get to do a lot in this game that you were not able to do in the N64 Version. 
 Which in my opinion was a great game. I love this game because it brings back all the classic mario 
 charectors such as Mario Yoshi Wario and the best Luigi they all have different abilities like 
 Luigi can do a big jump and spin. Wario can break big blocks. Mario can fly yoshi can turn in to 
 anyone overall anyone who liked the N64 version will love this version. Anyone who likes mario 
 or just anyone who wants a DS game get this one or the new realese Mario Kart DS!!!!!!
  
  
  
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: ApeOverlord
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 22, 2005 9:05 pm PT
Review:  Question is: Who wouldn't like this game? Well, it is the best game in which you can explore different 
 worlds and do fun tasks. Sure this game is a rehash, but it is new in a different way. Along with 
 Mario, you can now play as Yoshi, Wario, and Luigi. They hone different abilities and are just 
 fun to use. Different levels reside within the game and you can unlock each character by jumping 
 into a painting with a certain character on it. You basically beat a boss to unlock each character.
 
  
  You start out with Yoshi and his moves are interesting, but aren't as strong as the plumber's. 
 In addition, this game also has a good selection of mini games to use with the stylus and have 
 30 more stars to collect than the original game from the N64. For so many new features, this game 
 dosen't rehash too much material and it plays like the original.
  
  The controls are hard to use at first, but you need to get used to it in order to enjoy this game. 
 Overall, this is one of the best DS games so far and a great classic. I pity those who hate this 
 game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: stillplaygbc
Rating: 9.7
Date: Nov 21, 2005 4:22 pm PT
Review:  Its old school with a new twist. I just bought the game and I have not thought about anything but 
 beating it! Its easy for those who owned an N64 Original if not your on your own. The graphics 
 are better but the voices are off color especially Princess Peach' s voice. But all in all its 
 still an amazing game and finally after 8 years and much, much searching L IS Finally REAL!!!!!!!!!!!!!!! 
 Along with those Party Crashers Yoshi and who better a party crasher Wario??? If you dont own a 
 copy buy one today its worth the green! A 9.6 is an understatement for this game but those voices 
 are just too weird! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: VirtualBoyZ
Rating: 7
Date: Nov 21, 2005 1:54 pm PT
Review:  This game is the good clone of Super Mario 64. It's the exact same game with some fun bonuses, 
 the largest of which being that you can play as not only Mario, but Wario, Yoshi and Luigi, all 
 of whom have their own strengths and weaknesses. There are also a few bonus levels on the DS version, 
 nothing to spectacular there - but nice to play. The sound is okay and the graphics are tangible, 
 which leads to a fun gaming experiance. The touch screen isn't utilized here to its full capabilities, 
 as controlling Mario the old fashioned way is much, much easier. The only flaws are the camera 
 angles, which can (and will) lead to your falling to your characters death on many an occasion. 
 All in all, this is the same game you fell in love with back in the day, only with a few modern 
 twists. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Freeride360
Rating: 8.2
Date: Nov 21, 2005 9:59 am PT
Review:  It's a Mario game and there not my favourite person in the world. But this game is a bit different. 
 The 3D works well or a Mario game and it still has the weird Mario elements everywhere. The levels 
 are set out well with many places to explore. There are also plenty of these levels to go round 
 and will keep you on for ages. Getting all the stars is fun but at one of few times frustrating. 
 In total there 150 stars which does take ages and gives the game great replay value. The thing 
 that makes it better and different than its N64 counterpart are the graphics, mini games, choice 
 of four characters and 2 player mode. Graphics look smooth andwork well with the landscapes. Mini 
 games are good fun and you come back to beat the high scores. There are 4 people to play as which 
 are Mario, Luigi, Yoshi and Wario. All have different skills for different tasks. The choice of 
 4 people is what makes the 2 player mode work. Yoshi can turn into one of the other 3 people. 2 
 player has 4 maps which are all fun and large. This really is a good game for the DS and for Mario. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MovieMark17
Rating: 8.9
Date: Nov 20, 2005 4:40 am PT
Review:  Mario has always been a classic favourite of mine. I think all of it's old school games were brilliant. 
 From it's platformers to it's very addictive Go-Kart game it seemed the franchise was always hitting 
 the mark and giving quality games. Then, on the GC, it seemed that Mario hit a brick wall and lost 
 some of it's charm. The N64 had some good games but the ones the GC were producing felt very average 
 that is until Double Dash arrived. Now we have a game, for a handheld no less, which basically 
 blows all of the games Mario has ever created out of the water (Mario Kart aside) .
  
  The graphics of this game are superb. Very fluid and very pretty to look at. Sure they resemble 
 the graphics of the N64 version but that's a compliment if they can get those graphics onto a handheld 
 console!!! WOW! Each level has that good ol fashioned Mario charmed that makes the experience enjoyable 
 in all of the right places. The colour, the characters, the everything about it looks great and 
 it's hard to put down the game it's just that pretty! I'd take it out of it weren't against the 
 law...
  
  Gameplay wise it also gets awarded top marks. It feels so natural playing it on the DS. It was 
 meant for the DS. You can use a Stylus or you can use the D-pad which I prefer. Sometimes when 
 you jump using the Stylus it can be a pain in the ass. Each character has their own special abilities 
 and attacks. And although they are limited they never get old. For example when Mario gets the 
 flower power he can expand and float like a balloon to reach high places and as for Luigi he can 
 be come almost invisible and walk through most solid objects and obstacles such as fire. Yoshi 
 and Wario also have a variety of attacks that stay true to their characteristics and personalities.
 
  
  The game is long and has a tonne of side quests. I have almost all of the stars but not all of 
 them. It will take you a good while to actually complete the game, and since there are countless 
 courses to gain more stars you'll never get bored, even on replaying it. The highlight for me was 
 the Rec room. A place where you can play the mini games youve unlocked after doing certain tasks. 
 There are loads of mini games each with their own objective and this is where the game gains it 
 ''Quality'' status. The mini games will have you glued to your DS for hours and each game throws 
 a new way to use the stylus. Whether it's slot machines, poker, polo, Trampoline-ing, find the 
 face, drag the bomb, Sling shot etc. It just shows what this new consoles capabilities are and 
 they are extremely impressive. *Note. The name of the games I just came up with. Dunno what they 
 are really called. Heh.
  
  A perfect launch title with very little, if any, to complain about. I've had the DS for like 7 
 months now and I still play it on and off. A very addictive, very enjoyable gaming experience which 
 you shouldn't deprive yourself from. Go get it now! That's an order! Shoo! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Lautaro_aust
Rating: 8.9
Date: Nov 18, 2005 4:37 pm PT
Review:  Super mario 64 DS has excellent graphics which closely resemble if not surpass its N64 brother. 
 the thought of having super mario 64 on a handheld made me salivate with anticipation. The gameplay 
 is great but without an analog control it definitely is more difficult to control mario in those 
 tight spots. Sound wise the game has great music and even some voice acting!! When you buy this 
 game you may think theres no point as you already own the N64 version. WRONG, apart from an extra 
 30 stars there is a bucketload of new minigames that use the DS touchscreen greatly. A great game 
 recommended to all owners of a DS who are looking for their first game to own. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: neon_tetra
Rating: 8.8
Date: Nov 17, 2005 6:37 pm PT
Review:  It is just one of those games you have to have if you own a DS. Simple as that. The graphics by 
 far beat the original, the sound is so clear and crisp. Even the real voices, like Peach reading 
 the letter. The controls take time to get used to, but after a while, you can make Mario do lots 
 of moves and stunts. If you own a DS. You must have SM64DS in your collection.
  
  I especially like the fact that they have added extra missions, more characters to play then just 
 Mario. All the touch screen mini games. Lots of stuff to keep you playing for a long time.
  
  I didn't like.. umm.. Luigi!
  
  As you can tell, I like this game a lot. I now have lots 
 more DS games, but this is one I never ignor!
  
  Short review, but hey! I think you got the hint!
  
  George 
::::::

::::::
UserName: RissingBlade
Rating: 7.9
Date: Nov 17, 2005 8:44 am PT
Review:  I loved Super mario 64 DS! Nintendo realy boosted the system when they did the Super Mario 64 remake 
 (Super Mario 64 DS) I wish, though that they made a better camera view in "Strandard Mode". I liked 
 the mini game idea but some mini games were repetitive, for ex. the slot machine game and the super 
 slot machine game. My fav. new level was the mario and luigi levels. I liked the new stars. the 
 Multi Player is great and funny, the idea of the silver stars is cool! I just love it!
  
  P. S.: I wish to send a map of the luigi level to the Cheats & Hints.
  How can i send it? Rissing_Blade@hotmail. com 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: NFD
Rating: 9.1
Date: Nov 16, 2005 11:06 am PT
Review:  This has easily got to be the best ds game out there. I bought this as my first game (on ds) and 
 it was the best game i'd played for ages. Not only does it have absolutely amazing graphics, it 
 also has a whole load of mini games too.
  
  When you play this game, the idea is to get as many stars as possible until you get enough to open 
 a new door. Once you complete the game, theres still tons to do- like collect stars, catch bunnys 
 or just explore the castle, grounds and paintings.
  
  On this game you can jump into paintings and explore whats inside, each painting is a whole new 
 world. The insides of paintings are quite big and have lots of fun bad guys to either smash, punch 
 or squash.
  
  Easily the best ds game.
  
  Thank you for reading... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jekyll
Rating: 8.6
Date: Nov 16, 2005 6:04 am PT
Review:  Like many other Nintendo console games, Super Mario 64 has been ported over to the handheld arena. 
 With the slightly upgraded title of Super Mario 64 DS, the game comes with some new additions that 
 enhance gameplay beyond the original.
  The story starts as Mario and pals come to visit Princess Peach at her castle, but disappear while 
 a concerned Yoshi waits outside. Eventually Yoshi goes into the castle to discover that Bowser 
 is up to his old tricks, and has captured not just the princess, but Mario, Luigi, and Wario. Starting 
 by freeing Mario, you travel to 15 worlds to rescue Luigi and Wario, obtaining enough power stars 
 to open the final door and the showdown with Bowser to rescue the princess. Along the way, you're 
 also able to capture rabbits to unlock a number of cool minigames.
  The DS makes good use of the second screen, by constantly displaying an overhead view map with 
 camera rotation controls, meaning it's easy to maintain your bearings while adventuring. They also 
 added the ability to control the characters via the control pad, or by using the stylus on the 
 touch screen.
  The game has added to the original 120 stars (8 in each of the 15 worlds) by including 30 new castle 
 secret stars, that give you a bit more to seek out for those inclined. Each character has their 
 own moves, and while you'll likely have your own favorite, many levels will require use of all 
 three in order to get all the stars. The ability to use Yoshi, and have him put on a cap to transform 
 into one of the three heroes is a neat twist. The difficulty level is near perfect: while you may 
 have to sit and think how to get something/where for several minutes, nothing necessary is overly 
 difficult to accomplish, and be done without consulting a FAQ. The mini-games also add a lot of 
 fun, as some are quite addictive.
  The camera is the main gripe in the game, and while you can mostly manipulate it the way you need, 
 a few times it lets you down, and in the last world the poor viewpoints actually become a true 
 hindrance to success. The sound does take the odd metallic twang on occassion, but is mostly forgivable 
 coming such tiny speakers. Some early boss battles are almost too easy, often being easier than 
 it was to get to them.
  While the actual game controls work well and the story progresses smoothly, handling the camera 
 can be a distracting chore, and even the best viewpoints available sometimes aren't all that great. 
 Graphics look just as they do in the original Mario titles, handling the transition to a smaller 
 screen quite well. Sound, while still having the occasional tinniness, is well done, and in the 
 surround mode has an impressive ability to "throw" itself, often having sound effects seem to be 
 right next to you, not coming from the DS unit. The added mini-games increase the value of the 
 game, as you'll likely find yourself coming back every so often to top a high score even after 
 you've finished the main game. Overall, Nintendo's done a splendid job porting a console mainstay 
 over to their new DS unit. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gameplayer2105
Rating: 8.8
Date: Nov 15, 2005 8:04 pm PT
Review:  If youre at the store, wondering ponderously about a new DS game to get, this will not screw you 
 over ( see: goldeneye) this contains the super mario 64 you all know and love but theres 140-150 
 stars this time, thanks to the addition of wario, luigi, and yoshi. the mario face toy is now a 
 blast because you can create your own pictures, and the stylus makes it incredibly fun and simple.
 
  there are minigames that use the stylus, and theyre also a fun and welcome addition. overall, 
 if theres only one DS game in your library, make it this one 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DJ_Lae
Rating: 6.8
Date: Nov 14, 2005 12:08 pm PT
Review:  Imagine a real-time strategy game being played on a console - picture yourself yanking the analog 
 stick around to move the cursor. Unwieldy, isn't it? Now imagine emulating that analog stick with 
 a more rudimentary device. Try the dpad - doesn't work very well, does it? It only offers eight 
 directions and can't muster much in the way of finer control. Next, look at the DS's screen, slip 
 that thumb strap on, and work it out with a small circle on the screen portraying an analog stick's 
 movement.
  
  It works better, but is still sloppy. Especially when you push far to the side to engage the character 
 in a platformer and get him to run. Whoops, that little circle is creeping to the side of the screen 
 and you'll run up against the edge. I hope you weren't near a ledge in the game or trying to carefully 
 move across a narrow bridge, or you'll be plummeting to your doom.
  
  Mario 64 DS is a pretty faithful conversion of the 64's launch title. It contains all the goodies 
 and all the frustration of the original game as well a number of bonus features, from four different 
 characters to extra levels and boss battles. Even some of the stars have been moved in location 
 or the method of earning them has changed. There are also rabbits scattered around, and catching 
 them unlocks touch-screen minigames that can be played outside of the main game. But how is the 
 game itself?
  
  It's a good game in general but a horrible game in terms of being playable on the DS. As previously 
 mentioned, the DS has no acceptable form of mimicking an analog stick - the screen is your best 
 bet (and the dpad method lets you use a 'run' button) but it feels really sloppy. Given how unforgiving 
 some segments of Mario 64 are, you'll likely have a hard time playing through the game and no doubt 
 there will be occasions where you keep falling to your doom and want to smash your DS into little 
 tiny pieces. Remember the race against the penguin in the first ice level? Yeah, a slippery slide 
 with no edges that weaves all over the place. Completing that goal as well as many others is certainly 
 not fun, or intuitive.
  
  The minigames are arguably the best part of the package, and they aren't even the main attraction. 
 There are 36 in total, some of which require you to be fairly far into the main game to unlock. 
 Each character has eight themed minigames, some of which are variants of others, some that are 
 stupid, and a bunch that are just plain cool. None of them have lasting value but you'll no doubt 
 enjoy trying to beat your high score while curling koopa shells or lauching spikes are parachuting 
 bo-ombs.
  
  Overall, the game is somewhat of a disappointment, mostly because it controls so poorly. It's a 
 great example of a game that simply isn't meant for a certain platform - and the DS is almost completely 
 incapable of handling it. You can play it through, but the controls really are sloppy. Often it 
 feels as if you're playing by proxy, as if the DS is playing the game and you're just there giving 
 suggestions on what to do. It can be a very frustrating experience. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: duerdest
Rating: 8.6
Date: Nov 12, 2005 5:13 am PT
Review:  If you haven't played the original on the N64 then this is a must have title. If you have then 
 it is still okay but don't expect much new stuff. The game sees you playing as four characters 
 from the mario world: Mario, luigi, Wario and Yoshi. Don't ask me why Wario has gone good but lets 
 assume that he wants peach for himself. These new characters add a little variety and more thought 
 into how you play. But they are basically versions of mario from the original game, Wario can turn 
 metal and Luigi can go invisible so mario can do less. The graphics don't dissapoint and they are 
 an upgraded version of the N64, the scenery is clearer and the character models are much better, 
 the first time you see Bowser and you will see what I mean. The mini games are also excellent and 
 show what the DS can do
  
  Gameplay, harder due to a lack of 3Dstick but I am left handed so I use my left hand to hold the 
 stylus and control
  Graphics, very good and a definite imrpovement
  Sound, same tunes but great with headphones
  Value, it is a long game
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: shabbir2152
Rating: 9.4
Date: Nov 11, 2005 10:28 pm PT
Review:  In this game you can play as Mario, of course; Luigi, Yoshi, and Wario. You start off as Yoshi 
 and have to unlock Mario, Luigi and Wario to play as them. To unlock them you have to get a certain 
 amount of stars, unlock the level, beat the boss in that level, and you get him. There is about 
 a total of 150 stars you can get and has very good graphics for the DS. If you have the N64 version 
 of this game, you see any difference, except that there is more stars, and that you can play as 
 three more people. So basically, if you have the N64 version and want something different, this 
 is not the Super Mario remake. Otherwise, if you are playing this for the first time, buy it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Henatrice
Rating: 8.7
Date: Nov 11, 2005 2:23 pm PT
Review:  Super Mario 64 DS is a remake (I use that term loosely) of the original Super Mario 64 for the 
 N64. Now for anyone who hasn't been living under a rock for the past couple of years, this is a 
 guaranteed, awesome 3D platform experience. Which it is. 
  The Graphics for a handheld are impressive and compared to the original, it is much better. The 
 sounds are good, the musics good, but nothing spectatuclar here.
  
  The Value is the biggest flaw. Naturally, for a 3D platformer, it may not have enough replay value 
 for most people. Also, it is a remake of Super Mario 64, so owners of the original may not find 
 enough bonuses (like extra stars, minigames, adn new characters) However, for diehard fans, or 
 people who havnt even played the original game, this may be the ideal handheld experience on the 
 Nintendo DS. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Jtrain3470
Rating: 8.7
Date: Nov 9, 2005 4:59 pm PT
Review:  Mario DS is the remake of the original mario 64 for the well... N64. This mean that the game is 
 just like the last one, the game that revolutionized 3D platformer games.
  
  The gameplay in this is very good. You will never get bored of all the levels the game tosses at 
 you because they all have a different theme and envirments for you to traverse. The game has very 
 simple controls which are pretty much jump, move, and a action button. The simplicity of the game 
 is what makes it so good you never have to think about what move you have to pull off to get to 
 a goal (or star) . The only problem i had with this game was that the camera seemed to fight aginst 
 me sometimes and because of that i would jump off a ledges.
  
  DS has added a few new abilitys and characters to the fray that you can use to defeat big bad bowser. 
 You can use Mario (obviously) , yoshi, luigi, and Wario which all have different abilities and skills. 
 The game makes you go back to levels and use certain characters and use there speacial skill to 
 get that star you left behind.
  
  Mario DS puts the map on the bottom screen and puts the screen you play on the top screen. All 
 you use the stylus for in single player is to move around but i never used it i always found the 
 directional pad easier to use.
  The DS put the touch screen to good use with all the mini games that you unlock by catching bunnies 
 in single player.
  
  The multiplayer in Mario DS is nothing to get to excited about. In multiplayer you race can race 
 agianst 4 friends to see who can get and fight for the most stars. That sounds fun until you relize 
 the match is over by the time every one got 1 star because the matches only last 60 seconds and 
 there is no way to make it longer and plus they have only 3 boards to duke it out on.
  
  Mario DS is a great game to get even if you have played the old one. The extra characters and mini 
 games add variety when you get bored of normal game play but if you were excited to get this game 
 because of multiplayer im sorry to say you will most likely be dissapointed. Mario is a game every 
 DS owner should own or should of owned. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ghstblck343
Rating: 8.8
Date: Nov 8, 2005 5:17 pm PT
Review:  deserves more credit it lacks the joystick but overcomes that loss with tons of mini game fun. the 
 game is cleaner than its older version wich says alot. the ability to choose more than one character 
 brings the game to a whole new level. unfortunatly when i heard about the game i heard there would 
 be more levels..... not so true there are only afew but some levels have new spins but dont get 
 too exited they arent much...... i guess im bringing the game down a little..... dont get me wrong 
 if you have a Nintendo DS its whorth getting. in fact the game is truly good to the mario series. 
 Nintendo has created a very good creation from its former glory. the resterations make the game 
 totally whorth while. I give it a 8.9 
::::::

::::::
UserName: truegamer1988
Rating: 9.6
Date: Nov 8, 2005 4:55 pm PT
Review:  Super Mario 64 DS is the best plat-former for the ds even-though the competion is not fierce. The 
 addition of 20 power stars and three new characters refreshes the title in comparison to the N64 
 version. The aspect of the game that surprises me was the remodeled bowser which is similar to 
 Mario sunshines bowser. The addition of one star in each world also fuels the the new version replay 
 ability. The graphics also undertook a huge change. But the game looks and plays exactly like the 
 other version (except the ds stylus control scheme) . Overall the game is worth of buying even if 
 you posses the N64 version. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: herojoe1000
Rating: 8.8
Date: Nov 8, 2005 11:48 am PT
Review:  I never really noticed much difference between the control stick and the control pad during gameplay. 
 I think that the graphics on this game are much better than they were on the N64. Anyone who says 
 that remakes of a game for the DS or PSP are exactly the same should play this game. It includes 
 more stars than the original, and there are more playable characters that I will not reveal in 
 this review. Also, throughout the game, you will grab bunnies that will give you keys that unlock 
 fun minigames, which is another welcome addition to this game. So, even if you own Mario 64, this 
 game is still worth picking up. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SegaBeat
Rating: 6.8
Date: Nov 6, 2005 7:28 pm PT
Review:  Gameplay:
  
  Instead of introducing a brand new Mario adventure when the Nintendo DS launched, Nintendo instead 
 gives us a rehash of Super Mario 64 but with new extras. Unfortunately, those extras are not enough 
 to make this a great DS launch title. Like Super Mario 64, you guide Mario through several platforming 
 stages. But this time, Luigi, Wario and Yoshi join your team, and their abilities will be very 
 important for your adventure in the stages inside Peach's castle. When you begin the game, you 
 start out as Yoshi, and he has to look for the other 3 characters because Bowser, Mario's nemesis, 
 trapped them when they came inside the castle looking for Peach. This will require you to go through 
 a number of stages in order to rescue all of them. Along your way, you'll pick the Special Stars 
 which are needed for you to defeat Bowser. In each stage, you'll have platforming elements as well 
 as tasks to take care of. Each of the 4 characters you choose can jump, attack and flip in different 
 ways. Super Mario 64 DS has all that stages from the original N64 version, along with a few brand 
 new hidden stages as well. With everything the N64 version offered present and brand new extras, 
 this should excite you right? Unfortunately, I wish it did. The controls in the DS port are very 
 awkward since you can use ether the Touch Screen to move your character, or use the D-pad (unlike 
 the analog stick from the N64 version) The D-pad, while still kind of uncomfortable, is much better 
 then the touch screen control. And thanks the Nintendo DS's control layout, navigating through 
 the game is a little more difficult then the original N64 versions. So unless you never played 
 the N64 version of Super Mario 64, you won't find too much enjoyment out of the DS version. If 
 you're really good with the DS's control layout, then you might enjoy this. But otherwise, this 
 port is not as strong as the N64 original. Nintendo also happened to add other extras as well, 
 such as mini-games and multiplayer mode. To unlock more mini-games, you need to capture the rabbits 
 that hop around Peach's castle with a different character each time. The mini-games require you 
 to use the touch screen. Some of these mini-games are pretty likeable, but some are also very weird 
 and also frustrating. And the multiplayer mode is nothing too special to take notice of. So, this 
 is what I mean when Nintendo gives us a pathetic port of a great N64 game.
  
  Graphics:
  
  Most of the graphics are exactly how they looked when they first appeared way back on the N64 
 original in 1996. However, I did notice that Mario and other characters look a little more detailed 
 then the N64 version. But other then that, everything is pretty much the same. I don't know too 
 much of the DS's capabilities, but I will say the graphics are pretty decent for the DS and has 
 some creative level designs.
  
  Sound:
  
  All of the music from the original N64 version is back, which is a good thing for Mario fans. However, 
 I did notice a couple tracks are missing a few notes on the memorable or don't have the right sound 
 quality. Still, there's no denying that Super Mario 64 had great music, and so does this DS port. 
 The voices are tolerable, but at times they can be annoying. But there's still something good for 
 everyone's ears in Super Mario 64 DS.
  
  Conclusion:
  
  I hate to say this, being a Mario fan, but I was a little disappointed with the DS port of this 
 game. Super Mario 64 DS will definitely appeal to new Mario gamers, but for old-school gamers, 
 like myself, who played the original N64 version, might be a little disappointed in it as well. 
 I prefer the original N64 classic then this port, as it is more fun and more legendary then the 
 DS one. Unless you don't have an N64 and are willing to tolerate with the game's problems, Super 
 Mario 64 DS is not worth purchasing, but maybe worth renting.
  
  Pros:
  
  -A good return of a classic game. (When it works right)
  -Same good music
  -Decent for anyone 
 who didn't play the N64 original
  
  Cons:
  
  -DS's controls make this port less enjoyable
  -Some odd mini-games
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: ragchaos
Rating: 8.6
Date: Nov 5, 2005 6:02 am PT
Review:  Super Mario 64 was indeed a great game. The new version for ds adds a new twist and some difficulty. 
 Instead of just Mario, U have Luigi, Wario, And Yoshi, each with there own characteristics. Besides 
 that it is the same as the 64 version of the game except the there are more stars the get. Another 
 feature of the game is the u get to play mini games at the menu. They are pretty fun. All u have 
 to do is unlock the throughout the story mode and u can play them. As for the graphics they are 
 almost the same as the 64 version 
::::::

::::::
UserName: second_XD
Rating: 9.4
Date: Nov 4, 2005 7:11 pm PT
Review:  You cant argue with it, its a Mario Game. My favorite part is when you start off, you get to be 
 my favorite character: Yoshi. Now I'm a big fan of Yoshi, others are too, and this' great you can 
 even take Mario, Luigi, Wario's Powers and become even better. But you know what i do hate about 
 Mario games, is Princess peach always get kidnapped, doesnt She have security besides those Puny 
 toadstools. And what does Bowser do to peach when she is kidnapped, make sweet love????
  
  Oh, Mario I'm sorry but Bowser sure knows how to please a woman in bed.
  
  looooool. DUH??? 
 Cant Mario, Wario, Yoshi, Bowser get Kidnapped because Peach always does. lol. I would reccomend 
 this game for people who like remakes of the old version but better, ya know. lol. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bigmandoo
Rating: 8.9
Date: Nov 4, 2005 3:02 pm PT
Review:  ...::HET IS EEN REMAKE::...
  
  SuperMario64DS:
  Het is een spel met mooie Graphics en Geluid en een goed gameplay , maar Het is een Remake van 
 de SuperMario64 voor de N64. Het zou echt veel beter geweest zijn als het een Gloed nieuwe mario 
 game zou worden.
  Er zijn deze keer ook 30 sterren meer te halen .Op de N64 kon je maar 120 sterren winnen ,deze 
 keer is dat 150 dus wel wat nieuws te zien in het spel.
  De verhaal is wat veranderd en er zijn deze keer minigames (die je alleen met de touchscreen kunt 
 besturen) en je hebt 4 characters.
  
  Het verhaal is als volgt bowser heeft de sterren van de kasteel gestolen en heeft Mario, Luigi en 
 Wario ontvoerdt .. Yoshi zat te slapen en de schildpad achtige wezentje die op een wolk zit en die 
 jou de hele spel door filmt met zijn camera maakt Yoshi wakker en vertelt hem wat er aan de hand 
 is .Zo gaa je met Yoshi de kasteel binnen en probeer je zo veel mogelijk ''POWE STARS'' te verzamelen 
 en de vermiste personages te vinden.
  
  Eerlijk gezegd vermaakte ik me al met het tekenen toen ik het spel pas had''Dat is de kracht van 
 de TouchScreen'' , en de minigames waren ook heel leuk het gebruiken van de touch screen voor het 
 eerst .. het was heel leuk. Wat ook nog goed was ,was de ghrapics en de Sround sound het is een sple 
 met goed kwaliteid (tuurlijk ,wat verwacht je anders van nintendo) en jammer dat het een remake 
 is en geen nieuwe mario avontuur.
  Maar het is wel een heel goed Remake en eigenlijk is het wel leuk om die levels en het kasteel 
 overnieuw te bezoeken.
  
  ....::SuperMario64DS is de beste launch titel voor de DS met de mooiste graphics en geluid::......
 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: ty496iy4n4j
Rating: 7.7
Date: Nov 4, 2005 1:39 pm PT
Review:  This game is pretty good, there are plenty of levels, characters, unlockables and mini games!
 
  The graphics are very good for DS, the sound though is a little low in quality, the touch sensitive 
 minigames i9n my opinion are the main attraction, I just spend hours playing them again and again 
 to beat my old high scores.
  Many levels and even a touch screen option so you can control Mario and his friends using the touch 
 screen, 130 starts to collect get the game, it's extremly good value!
  The sound is the only thing that lets itself down, being played back at a low bit rate maiking 
 them sound tinny and not as good as they could have been.
  Still I recommend you go to the shops and buy this!
  Although if you don't like platform games, 
 you proberbly won't like this.... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BoardingKid07
Rating: 9.3
Date: Nov 3, 2005 8:01 pm PT
Review:  I love this DS title and even after beating it, I find myself always popping it into my DS for 
 great solid game play. With great graphics (even better than the N64) and new features such as 
 the introduction of new playable characters, fun mini-games, more stars to collect and multi-player 
 mode, this is a must have for DS owners. Going back and playing the original, felt like it actually 
 lacked something (though it will always be one of the greatest games ever) . Some may say that Super 
 Mario 64 DS is only a port, but in my eyes it is much more than that. Whether you've already been 
 introduced to the Super Mario 64 world with the N64 version or your a SM64 virgin, I recommend 
 this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mariobro999
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 1, 2005 2:30 pm PT
Review:  well, in case your wondering why this got a 10 in graphics, is because i am comparing it to the 
 original. the gameplay never gets old, the music is great. (but its nothing incredible, it got a 
 10 because i want to give it a 10) the value is a bargain for what you get, and most of all, its 
 a remake of my favorite game ever. ( tied with goldeneye 64, and SSB) buy it buy it buy it buy it 
 buy it but it buy it buy it buy it buy it buy it buy it buy it buy it buy it buy it buy it buy 
 it 
::::::

::::::
UserName: karasz87
Rating: 9.3
Date: Nov 1, 2005 4:05 am PT
Review:  This kind of game is really fantastic! You get to play as Mario, Luigi, Yoshi, and Wario. Not only 
 that, you get to go to new places. The plot is a little same from its N64 counterpart, but you 
 collect 150 stars instead of 120. 
  The good part of this game is where you get the Power Flower to give your character a special ability. 
 Mario can float, just like he grabbed the P-Balloon from Super Mario World, Luigi turns invisible, 
 Wario turns metal, and Yoshi becomes a fire breather.
  The most fantastic part of this game is that they have mini-games! That's right! Mini-games!.... Hey, 
 how come Luigi's mini-games are casino based?
  Super Mario 64 DS is a must have game, and this oughta fit your Mario games collection, perfectly. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GTABadBoy
Rating: 8.6
Date: Oct 30, 2005 6:07 am PT
Review:  This game is wicked! I love it, being a mario nut myself. This game is brilliant and doe a good 
 job on the DS. With the two screens you can use mario to run about, but to be honest its difficult 
 and so i resorted back to the good ol trust D pad. The graphics are cool and the enviroments are 
 huge and detailed. The sound is not the best, but is well placed at certain events, like when your 
 kicking browsers arse in a battle. Luigi, Wario and Yoshi make apperences to make this a instant 
 classic. Well done nintendo! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: llvllaster
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 30, 2005 5:13 am PT
Review:  I bought this game the day it came out along with the DS, and i thought it was brilliant.
  
  Compared with the outstanding original on the N64, it only JUST Falls behind.
  
  I personally 
 feel the graphics are better, the characters seem to have more detail, and of course there are 
 new characters, all with their own pro's and con's, making them all unique. e. g. Wario is slow 
 but powerful.
  
  There are more stars to collect, 150 now, meaning there are new levels now, and objectives exclusive 
 for the DS, so we feel that this isn't just a port, and makes the game feel more fresher.
  
  Also, if you happen to have some friends, i definately recommend you try the multiplayer option, 
 which is briliant. You basically just run around the level, collecting as many stars as you can, 
 in the time limit. You can also beat up the other players to get their stars, which is absolutely 
 halarious sometimes.
  
  Also you can play the game with the d-pad or the touch screen, the d-pad feels comfortable but 
 its hard to turn the full 360 degrees. I use, the touch pad, with the thumb attachment, it takes 
 a while getting use to, but it feels better on the long run, as its easier to navigate the character 
 once you have mastered it.
  
  Overall, if you havent played the original, you must buy it, its an absolutely brilliant mario 
 game that originally changed the world of 3D gaming. If you had the original, and didn't like it, 
 i dont recommend you buy it, its not much different from the original, it just includes some tweeks 
 here and there. But if you cant get enough of ol' mazza, buy it, it definately will keep you occupied 
 for hours to come. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Vissuluth
Rating: 7.3
Date: Oct 29, 2005 9:28 am PT
Review:  La veritat s que s genial, no havia tingut la possibitat de jugar-hi en la versi de la nintendo 
 64, ja que no la tinc, i el poder fer-ho ara amb aquesta fantstica portatil ha estat una sort. 
 
  
  Suposo que pels que ja el tenien no ha estat gaire noveds apart dels minijocs i alguna coseta 
 exclusiva daquesta edici, per per a mi i molts que no el coneixiem s una passada poder jugara 
 aquest tipus de joc amb uns grfics en 3D tant macos i que tot flueixi suaument.
  
  El joc me lhe acabat, s a dir he matat el bowser dolent del final, encara que mhan quedat moltes 
 coses per descubrir, la veritat s que si tencaparres en acabar-tel del tot thi pots estar ms 
 dun any, ja que s un dels jocs que ms coses extra i amagades i desbloquejables que he conegut. 
 Me lhe fet jo solet i la nica cosa que he hagut de mirar ha estat com trobar linterruptor que 
 et permet activar els blocs vermells, a part daix tot lo altre lhe fet solet, i mha fet il. lusi 
 resoldre alguns puzzles fora dificils per distrets.
  
  Grficament no est gens malament, sobretot el disseny dels mons s exquisit i molt simptic, encara 
 que els grfics en si podrien ser millors, per suposo que tamb hi t a veure la potncia de la 
 mquina.
  
  El so fora maco, adient del. licis i carinys com el joc.
  
  En general s fora addictiu tot i que jo no sc gaire partidari dels jocs habilidosos, me nhe 
 sortit fora b encara que a les fases ms dificils poca cosa hi he pogut fer, em poso molt nervis. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jhjw
Rating: 9.4
Date: Oct 28, 2005 9:46 am PT
Review:  Whats that i see ,i cant believe this clean graphics not a pixel in sight ,was the first thing 
 i saw when i turned on my ds the gameplay was as clean as crystal and up to standard. If you havent 
 got this game for the ds yet there must be something seriously wrong with you. I might as well check 
 you into the mental institute hospital right now .Plus this game has Luigi, Wario and 
  Yoshi in it.
  
  this game is ace!!!
  Briliant
  Addictive
  beutiful
  A must buy!
  
 BUY IT BUY IT BUY IT BUY IT ...... Sorry i got carried away a bit! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cantlooseu
Rating: 9.1
Date: Oct 28, 2005 4:22 am PT
Review:  SUPER MARIO 64 DS is the latest and the very best in this massively anticipated and highly addictive 
 stunning game series. It is no doubt the best PLATFORM game for any handheld including the PSP. 
 
  This game has it all, from nice suitable graphics to amazing game play in both story mode and the 
 tones of other game modes that this little cartridge is packed with! 
  It will take you defiantly more than 50 hours to complete this game including all the story and 
 extra game modes. Because when you complete it once unlock harder difficulties and of course more 
 characters. 
  THE WIRELESS MULTIPLAYER IS ALSO AMAZINGLY ADDICTIVE!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DJ_devster
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 28, 2005 3:08 am PT
Review:  Bad opening? errrrrrr yeah. this is a great game to play. i got for my birthday with my DS but 
 i didnt get the metroid demo : ( . I was recomended this in a back issue of NOM and hell i just 
 love it. i missed out on the original SM64 : ( . but i have seen screenshots in of the ol' SM64 
 which looks RUBBISH compared to this new release. and everything about it just screams I AM THE 
 MOST WORTH PLAYING DS PLATFORMER IN THE WORLD EVAR. i don't see why people think the thumb strap 
 sucks. you will get the knack after about 3 seconds of juming about and you dont have to hold down 
 the Y button to sprint with it. also i just love the bits where you make Mario and co. slide sown 
 huge hills on his DONKEY ;) 
  
  anyways there are only two problems.
  1: There should be some more synthesizing
  2: the game is just so good you wont be able to put 
 it down even if the phone rang, your mum picked it up and its someone you really fancy and they 
 say :"heres a million quid let us be your girlfreind"
  only joking the other bad thing is that some of the textures look horrible but no ones perfect. 
 and i suppose it keeps the game running at a demon framerate.
  
  It also makes good use of the DS's surround sound as well but some bits can seem slightly muffled 
 like when yoshi does a flutter kick you can't always make out what he's saying 
::::::

::::::
UserName: firebird23
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 26, 2005 5:55 am PT
Review:  I can remember when I first got my N64 wichseems so long ago now. Sitting down with a brand new 
 Mario 64 cart and spending hours in what seemed like gaming heaven. Wich is mostly the reason why 
 I was drawn to the first Mario game for Nintendo's newest handheld platform, the Nintendo DS.
 
  
  Turning on the game expecting a straight port of this classic, I was a bit caught off guard when 
 treated with an entirely new opening sequence that doesn't just revel Mario comming to the Princess' 
 Castel. But Wario and Luigi had joined him as well! After a few moments you find yourself playing 
 a Yoshi, Mario's dinosaur pal and form of transportation, with the Lakitu cameraman telling you 
 that Mario and his cohorts have gone missing. So Yoshi sets off to save Toadstool, Mario, Wario, 
 and Luigi. I was put off by this having expected to play as the plumber clad in red right off the 
 bat but had fun regardless because, hey, it's Yoshi for cryin out loud!
  
  The games story, I later found out, is still in tact and hasn't changed at all. You later find 
 Mario and pals and this just serves as a chance to play through the game with characters other 
 than Mario. This is done rather well considering each respective character has unique attributes 
 (i. e. Mario is swift and jumps high, Wario is slow but physically powerfull, Luigi does his little 
 leg kick made famous by Mario 2, and Yoshi..... is Yoshi)
  
  The Graphics look even better than the orriginal with the caracter models getting a polygon boost 
 and smoother animations. The screen makes everything bright and crystal clear, and the game just 
 looks good as a whole. 
  
  The controls however, do not translate well given the absence of an analog stick on the DS. You 
 often find yourself jumping in the wrong direction and sometimes jumping off cliffs completely. 
 This is a big setback for the game considering the orriginal controlled so well.
  
  Other than the main game there have been a ton of stylus oriented mini-games that are really fun 
 to play and resemble the old game-and-watch games of Nintendos past. These offer a great distraction 
 from the main game and are great to play when you're on the go and don't have time for a marathon 
 sitting.
  
  The added characters and mini-games show that Nintendo really cares about making fun expiriences 
 rather than making a quick buck on a cheap port., so if you were a fan of the orriginal and are 
 a Mario fan in general, you'd do well to pick yourself up a copy of this game. The added characters 
 and mini-games show that Nintendo really cares about making fun expiriences rather than making 
 a quick buck on a cheap port. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: marinebro0306
Rating: 8.7
Date: Oct 24, 2005 6:15 pm PT
Review:  This game is amazing. There are 30 more stars than the original, and I think the graphics are better. 
 Also, there are a ton of minigames. Everybody loves Super Mario 64, and now you can take it anywhere.
 
  
  ***Gameplay***
  Tons of minigames, more stars, and more hats make for hours of gameplay
  
  ***Graphics***
 
  As I said before, they're better than the original, and a great display of the DS's power.
  
  ***Sound***
  Eh, it's a handheld game. Lower your expectations.
  
  ***Value***
  For 
 it's price, there isn't a better handheld game out there. For $30, you will have a game that will 
 keep you playing long after the three day rule.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: way2funny
Rating: 9.4
Date: Oct 24, 2005 2:27 pm PT
Review:  Super Mario 64 revolutionized 3D platforming, this took a great game, and remade it and i believe 
 revolutionized what can be done on the DS. The gameplay was flawless except for one flaw, which 
 is the analog stick. Thats why i gave it an 8 out of 10. Graphics on the other hand looked almost 
 remade with a higher polygon count and smoothing character designs. It was awsome. All mario games 
 have top notch sound, this is no exception. The value is great, all the different characters to 
 choose from are nice. Though if you played this on the N64, it isnt much use to buy it again, though 
 i did and i did not regret it. I played through this game twice on the 64, and again on the DS, 
 it was sill as fun as it can be. The multiplayer was also great. This is a great item to show the 
 new generation of gamers what gaming could be, because i havent played a platformer yet to match 
 up with the Mario series. If you played it, and your bored, buy it play it over, you wont be dissapointed. 
 If you have never played it, this is obviously your time to play possible one of the best, wait 
 nevermind, the best 3d platformer, which evolved from the best 2d platformer. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: yusuf_hodges
Rating: 9.6
Date: Oct 24, 2005 1:48 pm PT
Review:  I liked it even though i only played it for a **** five seconds. The game is better' n simple. 
 You start off with yoshi. in order to become mario, luigi, wario, and such. you must find their 
 hat or what not. and you gain there power, but lucky you still contain yoshis hops. lol. I liked 
 it even though i only played it for a **** five seconds. The game is better' n simple. You start 
 off with yoshi. in order to become mario, luigi, wario, and such. you must find their hat or what 
 not. and you gain there power, but lucky you still contain yoshis hops. looooooooooooool, shut 
 the fuck up!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: punkrocker616
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 23, 2005 7:25 pm PT
Review:  The mini games alone are a reason to buy this game. There are 36 mini games in all (which you need 
 to unlock) that use the unique touch screen. Like the N64 version you collect stars (150 in all, 
 30 more than the original) Your main goal is to save the princess peach from the evil bowser... 
 This game has amazing graphics! (especially for a handheld) The only glitch is the lack of an analog 
 stick. You can control mario, yoshi, luigi, or wario with the original buttons or you could use 
 the stylus or wrist strap. But it is a lot easier to use the buttons. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Super_Ky
Rating: 9.4
Date: Oct 23, 2005 5:48 pm PT
Review:  Super Mario Sixty Four DS is a must have for the nintendo DS. If you like the other Mario games 
 (Super Mario Sixty Four, Super Mario Sunshine, ect.) you'll love this one! The graphics are great 
 and 3D and there are plenty of levels to choose from. There is also plenty of things to do in this 
 game. The Mini games are awesome and there are so many stars to collect! The gameplay is fun and 
 pretty easy. The sound is also very enjoyable, from the original Super Mario Sixty Four. So, if 
 you don't have this game yet, you HAVE to get it. You won't regret it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MovieDirector
Rating: 9.1
Date: Oct 23, 2005 5:46 pm PT
Review:  One of the most groundbreaking games on the N64 just got better. Super Mario 64 DS takes all of 
 the elements of the original and simply improves on it. 
  
  Story- Princess Peach sends Mario and invitation come and have some cake with her (at least it's 
 not Hot Coffee) at her castle. Crashing the party with Mario is Luigi and Wario, and they all enter 
 the castle but never come out. Lakitu informs Yoshi of this information, and Yoshi finds out that 
 Bowser has taken all four of them hostage within the castle.
  
  Gameplay- A major difference from the original is the fact that you now not only play as Mario, 
 but as Yoshi, Luigi and Wario as well. You start as Yoshi and use his abilities to perform tasks 
 you wouldn't be able to with the other three. While most of the game is played with as either Mario 
 or Luigi, it's nice to see that there are levels specifically designed for Yoshi and Wario as well. 
 The game's length has also increased with an extra 30 stars to collect making the total 150. The 
 ways of obtaining these 150 stars all vary ranging from collecting coins to winning a foot race 
 with Koopa the Quick. And with 15 course worlds, the Bowser levels, and the castle stars you'll 
 be busy for a long time collecting them all especially if you've never played the original. Also 
 new to the game are the mini-games which can be obtained by collecting the various rabbits throughout 
 the castle. While unfortunately the mini-games are only for one player, they're pretty fun and 
 do a good job of utilizing the touch screen. The multiplayer, while limited, is a lot of fun with 
 friends. Though there's only one game mode (collect the most stars) it's extremely fun and frantic 
 and will keep the pace of exciting multiplayer gameplay going for awhile. The gameplay in Super 
 Mario 64 DS is just unbelieveable with all the things you can do. The mini-games and VS. mode only 
 add to an upgraded single player, helping you easily log in 15 hours. The only gripes are the camera, 
 which is a constant problem when platforming, and the control pad which doesn't work as well as 
 the control stick did for Super Mario 64.
  
  Graphics- The graphics are some of the best on the DS still. Seeing a 3D world on a handheld system 
 is amazing, and Super Mario 64 DS does a great job of updating the graphics from the N64 version. 
 The character and level designs are very well done and show off the potential for the graphical 
 capabilities of the DS really well.
  
  Sound- The classic music from the original is in full form here as well as a few new ones to fit 
 the new characters and their abilities. Though some of the music gets tiresome after awhile, the 
 classic Mario theme music on most of the levels and throughout the castle more then make up for 
 it.
  
  Bottom Line: Super Mario 64 DS is much more then a simple port to state the launch of the DS system. 
 The 30 new starts, mini-games, VS. mode, and new characters make it feel like a new game. While 
 it doesn't show off the touch screen well outside of the mini-games, it makes up for it with improvements 
 to the great gameplay from the original. 
  -AP 
::::::

::::::
UserName: StreetFighter01
Rating: 8.9
Date: Oct 23, 2005 5:13 pm PT
Review:  I thought this game was really good. Its basically the N64 version but
  with multiplayer, new bosses, new characters, more stars, and mini games. The graphics are a little 
 better then the original, Same classic tunes
  as before, and new touch screen controls. Having one copy of this game and playing up to 4 players 
 is amazing. Just wished they had some more
  multiplayer levels. This game is worth buying especially if you
  haven't played the original. 
 You just can't go wrong with $29.99.
  This game is worth buying if you need some time to waste having fun!
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: nintendoexpert
Rating: 8.9
Date: Oct 23, 2005 2:07 pm PT
Review:  Basically, I thought Super Mario 64 DS was a really good game.
  
  PROS:
  - It follows the original Super Mario 64 style pretty closely, which is good because Super Mario 
 64 is a good game, and it has enough noticeable differences to make it not seem too repetitve.
 
  - The addition of three more playable characters adds a new sense of depth to the game.
  - More levels and more stars... always a good thing.
  - It has a multiplayer (as opposed to the 
 original) .
  - The sound is decent and somewhat addictive.
  - The graphics actually seem to have improved (compared to those of the original) .
  - The single-player 
 mode is long and challenging, which I always view as a good quality in games (unless it's monotonous, 
 which this game wasn't) .
  - Perhaps the biggest PRO of this game is the addition of lots of mini-games, which are innovative, 
 addicting, and provide you with something to do once you've completed the single-player mode.
 
  
  CONS:
  - Although the original Super Mario 64 was a good game, I thought it was a little lame that Nintendo 
 used many of the exact same levels. It did add the nostalgic feeling, but I would rather have some 
 newer, more improved levels (some of which it did have, actually) .
  - The multiplayer gets very boring, very fast. I only played it once, not because I couldn't play 
 it anymore, but because I didn't want to play it anymore.
  - This is a little picky, but I think the viewing screen from Super Mario 64 was reduced to fit 
 Super Mario 64 DS. Basically, it focuses in on your character more, leaving less space on the screen 
 for you to view your surroundings.
  
  Overall, I would highly recommend this game to any DS owner, as I think it is the second best DS 
 game that I have played so far. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: darknesss5
Rating: 8.1
Date: Oct 23, 2005 1:44 pm PT
Review:  This game is easy to beat if you can just rush it, the fastest i bet it in was at least 1 hour, its 
 fun if you get all the stars and a bit challenging sine you have to find all of the secret stars 
 and where there hidden. the multiplayer for this is pointless though because i have tried it with 
 my friends and its kinda retarted since it has a time limit that's not long, u cant get eaten if 
 u have a hat on so if your mario just jump all over the place and the walls to dodge attacks from 
 friends. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: noble99
Rating: 9.1
Date: Oct 22, 2005 7:30 am PT
Review:  Mario Ds in my opionion is one of the best games in ds. IT is really fun good graphics many side 
 games and you dont beat it in 10 mintutes. this game takes a while but you have a lot of fun doing 
 it . This game is defiently a must buy if u have a ds. And in i think decemeber there coming out 
 with online and this will make the game even better. YOu will be able to battle other ppl all around. 
 SO plz go out and buy it if u ahvent already youll be happy u did. i love the music too brings 
 u back a couple years 
::::::

::::::
UserName: swdison_basic
Rating: 8.2
Date: Oct 17, 2005 5:05 pm PT
Review:  Now I bet you're thinking, nintendo is porting a game. This game is good, it's not revolutionary 
 but it does look good. It has great mini games but it's still not diferent enough. The greatest 
 thing about this game is that you get to play as wario, yoshi, mario and luigi. The graphics are 
 the best thing of this game, they are superb, exceptional, great, awesome you get the point. The 
 story is the same and the contols are great, you can use the stylus or the D-pad . So go play it 
 have fun but don't expect too much. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mangaloreronan
Rating: 9.1
Date: Oct 17, 2005 8:06 am PT
Review:  I got my DS when the special offer was going on that you get Super Mario 64 DS free with a Nintendo 
 DS console. If you've played Super Mario 64, this one has everything that the original had plus 
 30 more Power Stars, more than 40 minigames, and a DS Download play multiplayer mode. It has the 
 same graphics as Super Mario Sunshine for the Nintendo GameCube. The music in the levels are usually 
 cool remixes of classic Mario tunes. Also it'll keep having you to insert it into the Game Card 
 Slot and play it. Conclusion: It's an awesome game if you liked Super Mario 64. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: slacker6
Rating: 8.8
Date: Oct 16, 2005 6:07 pm PT
Review:  This game is called Super Mario 64 DS, for the DS, it was an awesome game compared to the original 
 one on the Nintendo 64. It told more secrets to help you beat it, and prevent.
  
  GAMEPLAY - The gameplay was great, you could do more with your characters then you could before, 
 and you couldn't pick favorites, becuase you have to learn to use all of the characters to beat 
 it. 
  
  GRAPHICS - The graphics weren't great, although the characters didn't go through the walls or suddenly 
 disappear. The characters did look more real, and the monsters, then they did, so I do give credit 
 for that. I do wish more monsters were in it then the last one.
  
  SOUND - The sound was somewhat okay, the music changed on some areas of gameplay. I did like the 
 mini-games music though. It sounded more real than some of the DS's games.
  
  VALUE - It isn't really worth much. so don't go buy it till it drops, or in my opinion don't. Last 
 I saw at Wally World, it was $39.99, but the newest mario game should come out and 64 should drop, 
 so be patient, because I wasn't.
  
  CLASSIFICATION- I say Highly Addictive, becuase the mini-games can get addictive after a while, 
 especially when your siblings ,or something play it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kooliomatie
Rating: 8.7
Date: Oct 16, 2005 6:41 am PT
Review:  This game was great. Straight out of N64. The graphics looked superb on the small screen of DS. 
 Just like in the N64 version there are numerous levels that will keep you busy. The buttons are 
 exactally the same as N64. With the bottom screen of the DS functioning as a map you can find your 
 way around a little better. I love the Mario music that is playing in the backround. Trying to 
 beat all three Boswers to save the Princess is an adrenalene rush. With the addition of Luigi, 
 Wario, and Yoshi the game goes to whole new levels.
  
  I would reccommend this game to any Mario fan. Or to anyone who missed out on the N64 version. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Super_Cool
Rating: 8.7
Date: Oct 15, 2005 6:02 am PT
Review:  Mario 64 DS is the portable version of the Mario 64 on Nintendo 64. I would have to say the new 
 one is better than the old because of the new features. In the original, all you could play as 
 was Mario. In this new one, they added Luigi, Wario, & Yoshi as playable characters. They each 
 have their own special abilities that the other characters don't have. Yoshi has his egg-laying 
 move, Luigi can run on water for short distances and jump high, Mario can climb things by jumping 
 on the walls, and Wario is the strongest. The Mario abilities have spread out to the other characters. 
 Luigi is the one that becomes transparent now and oly Wario can be metal. In this way, I sort of 
 ind this better than the old because it provides more of a challenge as you must unlock the characters 
 first to use that ability. Another good thing about the game is the boss battles. They always keep 
 me interested and it is great watching those guys die.
  
  There are a couple of downsides though. You will constantly have to adjust the screen of the camera 
 to get where you want the camera to be. That can be fustrating because you may not see what is 
 going on in the game. Also, they got rid of the trick in the old game where you could talk to Yoshi 
 on the rooftop so he will give you more lives. This feature has been taken out because Yoshi is 
 now playable. A new feature added in this game are the mini-games, which you can unlock my catching 
 rabbits in story mode. They are fun for a while but you can get bored with them.
  Overall, a good game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mr_fox_man
Rating: 9.6
Date: Oct 12, 2005 4:48 pm PT
Review:  i played super mario 64 back when i was seven years old, i was one of the best games around for 
 quite a while. The DS version has made it even better! The graphics are amazingly much better and 
 up to date. You don; t only get to be mario, but luigi, wario and even YOSHI! There are 30 more 
 stars to colect (how do they fit this all onto one little cartridge?) and the game includes bonus 
 minigames using the the touch screen. In the mini-game rooms there are bonus levels aswell that 
 just ad to the fun. This game is an awesome update of an amazing classic and should be missed by 
 no-one. This game is a must have for anyone owning a DS. This game is AWESOME!!!!!!!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Rodg7790
Rating: 7.5
Date: Sep 13, 2005 11:00 pm PT
Review:  If your the adventure gamer, then this game might stick on to you like some sort of insane sticky 
 substance...
  
  Anyway, this is a excellent port. Graphic could use a great touch up but it is still great. The 
 use of the stylus is not to great as it is hard to run around with it to me at least. the sounds 
 are like the n64 and such, but one extra thing is the mini games. They provide that extra fun inbetween 
 being stuck in the game. This is one of the few ports that is really great that i have seen. It 
 shows how much ports do good for a system. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Space_Godzillla
Rating: 9.1
Date: Sep 12, 2005 7:49 pm PT
Review:  Super Mario 64 DS
  Super Mario 64 was released six years ago for the Nintendo 64 and was a huge success. It revolutionized 
 Mario games for years to come and was undeniably one of the best 3-D platforming games. Six years 
 later Super Mario 64 is released once again but this time for Nintendo's new handheld console the 
 Nintendo DS. 
  
  Super Mario 64 DS is than just a port than the original. Actually it hardly feels like a port at 
 all. The game feels more like an updated version of the original cause thats basically what the 
 developers planned it to be. The basic concept of the story is the same but with some noticeable 
 adjustments and differences. Instead of starting out as Mario you'll start as Yoshi who will have 
 to search for Mario, Luigi, Wario and in the end Princess Peach with the bottom screen used as 
 a map and virtual analog stick.
  
  
  
  Each character is balance and has the noticeable differences in speed and power. Mario is the most 
 balanced of them all and feels the same as he did in the N64 version. Luigi is the quickest out 
 of the four. He will run, swim, and move slightley quicker than the rest. He even has his flutter 
 jump. Wario is the slowest out of the four he will not jump as high as the others or run. You will 
 also have a harder time swimming with him as well as he slowly sinks easier. But what he lacks 
 in speed he makes up in strength. Wario will be able to break certain blocks that other characters 
 can't. And Yoshi is also as balanced as Mario is but he can't punch or kick so instead Yoshi can 
 use his tongue to grab certain enemies and even swallow some of them making them eggs and using 
 it as a weapon. As Yoshi many levels will contain hats of other characters that he can wear tio 
 change into that certain character until you unlock them as you progress. Other things have been 
 added and changed in the game. Changes can be found as certain characters are needed to acheive 
 different stars in different levels. Another change is the power blocks. Now there is only a set 
 of red blocks and are different for each character. Mario will have blocks that contain either 
 a flower that makes him like a balloon or a feather that will give his cap those familiar wings 
 to fly. Luigi will become invisible, Wario will become metal, and Yoshi will be able to spit out 
 fire. Another noticeable difference will have to be the graphics. The DS handles everything well 
 and looks much better than the original in most cases. Even though the textures may look a little 
 more pixelated if you look close. Even the character models as you can see the comparison in this 
 screen
  
  
  
  Super Mario 64 DS (left) , Super Mario 64 (right)
  
  Another addition is the mini-games which will keep you coming back for more as they are addicting 
 and challenging and are control by the stylus on the touch screen. Some are already unlocked when 
 you start the game and others have to be unlocked by catching bunnies scattered around in different 
 worlds.
  
  
  
  One of the many addicting mini-games
  
  There have been new levels added and 30 more stars. The sound and music is basically the same as 
 the original which ws great but now has additions from Super Mario Sunshine o you'll be hearing 
 familiar tunes from that game which is another great addition. There is also some multi-player 
 added that can be played by using one game cartridge. Its a nice addition but nothing major.
  
  Of course theres not a great game without its flaws. The camera can get tricky at some time 
 and Super Mario 64 was originally supposed to be played with the analog stick which the DS is lacking. 
 So you have the option of using the D-pad or using the touch screen as a virtual analog stick. 
 Both have there flaws though. The D-Pad is not as accurate as the analog stick as you will find 
 yourself falling off ledges and doing a 360 more than you like. Using the touch screen as a virtual 
 analog stick using the wrist strap can be just a frustrating as the D-pad. When you use the touch 
 screen you will move your thumb so the character can run faster but its common that you will find 
 tourself in the position to move your thumb back into the middle of the screen because you moved 
 your thumb to the edge of the screen which stops the characters movement. Both are awkward control 
 schemes that'll take some getting used too.
  
  In a whole Super Mario 64 DS is a great remake of an already great game. With added stars and mini-games 
 in the mix you will find yourself coming back to this title even after you finish it. Super Mario 
 64 is the best DS launch game out and is highly recommended to fans of the original as well as 
 newcomers.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Nikotizer
Rating: 8.3
Date: Sep 10, 2005 12:05 am PT
Review:  Genius in its simplicity. This is a poetry, the way the game "speaks" to the Player proves that 
 Nintendo is a real mark in making games (like nobody knows) . But I am talking here only about platformer 
 games. This game rather cannot beat games in other genres (by gameplay) . I mean for example my 
 favourites... like Quake. But Quake is not a platformer, if you need one you choose Mario. "Strange 
 things I'm talking", and I mean SM64 was a classic and still is, even in other version. The handheld 
 one.
  
  As always story is... lets say - like in pornos :-) ... But in rather "some" other direction, eeh... 
 I mean its very simple :) . Yoshi was sleeping; and when he woke up he discovered that his friends 
 was missing. "What happen to Mario, Luigi and Wario?!" ?.. So it's time for our Green fellow to 
 begin the rescue mission and saving also castles gold power Stars (with eyes) and... princess Peach! 
 
  
  This game is an essence of platformer - very pure "restricts" are "as they should" and I think 
 it's a good aspect of the game. This game is a very pleasant adventure with all things that can 
 make man happy. Jumping, collecting, rescuing, 4 playable characters. All of this is very very 
 nice in all aspects... And more of SM64DS is a port of great N64game.
  
  Mini Games - great, touchscreen using! Those game puts the game higher in my eyes...
  
  There 
 is an enormous amount of reviews here - so I just put another brick... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Antiman90
Rating: 8.6
Date: Aug 26, 2005 8:59 pm PT
Review:  Super Mario 64 was a landmark hit for the Nintendo 64, and now Nintendo hopes to re-create that 
 success on it's DS handheld. What you get is a solid experience, and Super Mario 64 DS is a game 
 you should at least check out if you own a DS, but if you have the game for your Nintendo 64 you 
 should just play that again.
  
  Super Mario 64 DS is just what the title implies, it's Super Mario 64 on the DS. Unfortunately, 
 it doesn't quite measure up to it's N64 cousin in a few areas. Most notably is that gameplay which 
 is almost destroyed thanks to the DS's D-Pad or Touch Screen controls, as they don't work as well 
 as an analog stick. The game encourages you to use the touch screen to walk on narrow landscapes 
 like a brodge or something, the only problem is that it's near impossible to get controls that 
 precise out of the game. The camera is also always at a wierd angle which can make platforming 
 difficult in some spots.
  
  The big story here is that they've added 30 stars to the game, and three new playable characters: 
 Luigi, Wario, and Yoshi. The game actually starts out with you playing as Yoshi, in fact you don't 
 rescue Mario until you find eight stars. There are also new mini-games which you can unlock by 
 finding rabbits hidden throughout the castle. The minigames range from memory to matching bomb-ombs, 
 and they are pretty enjoyable for short snippits of play.
  
  The graphics in this game are incredible, they even beat out the N64 version by far. The sound 
 is what you expect from a Mario game, it's Mario music. There isn't much more to talk about.
  
  Overall, Super Mario 64 DS is definitely a game worth playing, but if you already own the N64 
 version then you shouldn't bother with this. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Raccoon_Mario
Rating: 9.4
Date: Aug 14, 2005 5:08 pm PT
Review:  I rushed home, unwrapped my DS, and slammed the Game Card in there. I was expecting a lot of things 
 when I turned on the power, and when I did, I was in heaven. The title screen was enough to tell 
 me that this game was going to be special.
  
  After staring at it for 10 minutes, I selected adventure and was soon on my way. The opening sequence, 
 which was funny at one point, came up, and that's when it really began. Wandering around the castle 
 grounds will make you get that feeling you got when you first experienced it back in 1997. There 
 are now 150 stars to collect (30 more than the original) , new levels, Like Sunshine Isles and the 
 Battle Fort, and 34 Mini games.
  
  And after rescuing the extra characters, it just felt oh so sweeter. The extra powers and abilities 
 were just too awesome, but what was the best part was the battle I had to do to get them. By far, 
 Chief Chill was the most challenging. Pushing off the edge of huge arena three times that gets 
 smaller everytime. I lost it quite a few times.
  
  And each character have special abilities that you get when collecting flowers from Red Boxes (after 
 you press the switch, that is) . Mario inflates into a big balloon, just like in Super Mario World, 
 and floats around the course. Yoshi gets Fire Breath, Wario turns to Metal, who is then invincible 
 and can walk underwater, and Luigi can vanish, making him walk through objects and people. And 
 when Mario grabs a feather, he gets his good old Wing Cap, and can fly in the air. All these abilities 
 are essential to completing this game, so rescuing the characters is vital.
  
  The fact that there is no analogue stick doesn't trash this sweet experience either. Holding the 
 Y Button and using the + Control Pad, I had no problems with.
  
  If this isn't to your liking, the Thumb Strap is there. You clip it to your DS and you've got yourself 
 a virtual analogue stick. It does take some getting used to, as when you touch the screen, a circle 
 appears, and it moves about from place to place. I'm just sticking with the + Control Pad, but 
 you can try it out if you want.
  
  If you've had enough of collecting stars (I doubt it) , there are the mini-games, all using the 
 touch screen. The game I currently reign supreme on at the moment is Pair-A-Gone and On. A whole 
 deck of cards appear, and you have to choose two that are next to each other to make them vanish. 
 AND IT KEEPS ON GOING.
  
  So even if it is a remake of an unforgetable classic, it's a damn fine one, and it shouldn't be 
 sniffed at. If you don't get this game, you should go to prison. Fact. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Astrodude_5
Rating: 8.6
Date: Aug 14, 2005 4:49 pm PT
Review:  Super Mario 64 DS is an excellent remake of an excellent game. The 3D graphics may be the best 
 on the DS to date. 
  
  First of all, the game tells you to walk with the touch screen. I advise that you use the d-pad 
 and use the touch screen to rotate the camera when needed. Otherwise, the controls are very nice 
 and it is neat how each of the four playable characters (Yoshi, Mario, Luigi, and Wario) have their 
 own unique abilities.
  
  Gameplay: 8/10
  SM64 controls very well and is varied enough by each character to keep it fresh. At times, finding 
 power stars can be a tedious, frustrating task but that makes it more rewarding. Using a flower 
 power does something different for each character which can lead to the collecting of power stars. 
 There several puzzles to solve throughout the game which are sometimes suprisingly challenging.
 
  
  Graphics: 9/10
  The graphics in SM64 are probably the best on the DS to date. The player models are very smooth 
 and environments look suprisingly good. The levels have a lot of detail to them and overall the 
 are just great looking.
  
  Sound: 9/10
  The little yips and yaps from each character are funny but sound a little echoey at times. The 
 music is very catchy and little ambient sounds here and there plus the enemy voices make SM64 a 
 very good sounding game. 
  
  Value: 8/10
  SM64 is a long game, especially for a handheld that should keep you busy for a long time.
  Unfortunately, 
 there isn't enough multiplayer content to keep you busy for entirely too long. But to be fair, 
 that's about all the multiplayer possible for a platformer like SM64.
  
  Tilt: 9/10
  SM64 is, overall, the same game as the N64 version with some new content. If you've played the 
 N64 version, you may want to stay away from this game unless you truly love mario, because this 
 basically the N64 game to go. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TAMKFan
Rating: 8.8
Date: Jan 5, 2006 4:56 am PT
Review:  Well I just got a Nintendo DS along with this game today. It's by far better than the Nintendo 
 64 version as I said earlier. Now read below:
  
  Gameplay: It's the same gameplay you would expect from the original version except the analog stick 
 is replaced with the arrows and you can also use the touch screen to move around. You can run by 
 holding Y button while using the arrows. Rating: 8/10
  
  Graphics: The graphics have improved as well. The characters and backgrounds are professionally 
 done and it's better looking than even some GameCube games out there. Rating: 9/10
  
  Sound: The sounds go well with the characters and some music is decent but some music I'm not really 
 a fan of. Rating: 9/10
  
  Value: This game has more stars too. Which adds to the value. Their's mini-games too which can 
 keep you busy for awhile. Rating: 8/10
  
  Tilt: If you liked the Nintendo 64 version than you should love the DS version. Even if you already 
 have this game for Nintendo 64 it's worth it. Rating: 10/10
  
  Overall rating: 8.8/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Cheesebob57
Rating: 8.6
Date: Aug 4, 2005 11:17 pm PT
Review:  Super Mario is back, and this time he's exclusively on Nintendo's new platform, the Nintendo DS. 
 The game is Super Mario 64 DS and it is basically a remake from the original Super Mario 64 for 
 the N64 way back in 1996. This version has some pleasant new twists and turns, and it seems like 
 plenty of effort from Nintendo has went into this game. In case you are not aware, the Nintendo 
 DS sports two screens, a touch screen, a built in microphone, and Wi-Fi capabilities. Super Mario 
 64 DS uses all but one of the DS's features (the microphone) . 
  
  The game starts out where Princess Peach invites Mario, Wario, and Luigi over to the castle for 
 cake, and then they all go missing. Meanwhile, Yoshi is sleeping on the castle roof, and when he 
 wakes up, he finds Mario and the gang missing. Yes, that is the plot. Pretty much the same type 
 of thing that Mario has been doing for the past 20 years. But, in all honesty, it still works, 
 and it is not a major problem with this game.
  
  The game controls solid. Of course it would have been great if the Nintendo had included a joystick 
 on the DS instead of a standard D-Pad, but you can't have everything. Super Mario 64 DS offers 
 two different control modes: using the standard D-Pad or using the touch screen as a semi-joystick. 
 The D-Pad works way better than the touch screen, mainly because I felt my thumb slipping sometimes 
 on it and it just doesn't feel right using it.
  
  Nintendo has really done some work with Super Mario 64 updating its visuals for the DS. It really 
 looks great and colorful, mainly what you would expect from a Super Mario game. The characters 
 look incredible with a increased polygon count. Overall, the top screen looks great. The bottom 
 screen, on the other hand, offers a map which looks ugly and blocky. The map works, but not well. 
 Sometimes you will notice that they are a bit blurry, but for the most part it's not a problem. 
 But overall, you stare at the top screen the majority of the time, so it really isn't a big problem.
 
  
  One of my favorite parts of the original Super Mario 64 was the music. On the DS update, it sounds 
 great with the DS's stereo speakers. The game even goes as far to offer a new "universal surround 
 sound" feature which makes it seem like there are speakers positioned all around you. The truth 
 is, it surprisingly works! Overall, the music sounds perfect and it won't make you reach for your 
 mp3 player to relieve the pain.
  
  I felt that the replay value on Super Mario 64 DS was only moderate. The game tries to increase 
 replay value by including rabbits that you catch to unlock new mini games, which are pretty addictive 
 and will keep you coming back for more. But, in the actual adventure, the game only offers the 
 standard "collect everything" goal which really isn't very fun. It will keep you coming back until 
 you beat the final boss, but after that, there's not much to keep you coming back.
  
  I had tons of fun in this game. Super Mario 64 was one of my favorite games, and the DS version 
 made old new again. I loved going from stage to stage collecting stars and fighting Bowser in boss 
 fights, at least for a while. Not much lacking in the fun factor department.
  
  There is multiplayer imbedded into the game, but sadly it has only limited appeal. You and up to 
 three friends positioned within up to one hundred feet can join in on the fun where you run around 
 and collect stars before your opponent does. It really seems as though that multiplayer was just 
 a last minute thought- which is unfortunate because the game was originally shown only as a multiplayer 
 title back at E3 2004 when the DS was unveiled. In all, I only enjoyed multiplayer for about five 
 minutes.
  
  In all, Super Mario 64 DS has its flaws, but it is definitely worth picking up. It is a solid, 
 superb game and is not to be missed.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: GriMGraVe
Rating: 9.7
Date: Jul 31, 2005 10:10 pm PT
Review:  The original Super Mario 64 is one of the best games ever, no doubt on it.
  Nintendo ported the same Super Mario 64 for the DS as launch title with some improvements.
  
 
  1st of all the story is a little different. Mario, Luigi and Wario went to rescue princess Peach 
 but never returned, so the player starts now as Yoshi and besides getting all the stars, he now 
 rescues also the missing characters. Once you unlock them, you can use them. Each character, when 
 powered up with a power flower has their unique ability. Mario gains the ability of floating, Luigi 
 turns himself invisible to enemies and also can walk through fences. Yoshi spits fire and Wario 
 turns to metal Wario, which makes him invincible.
  
  Oh, besides the characters addition, there are also more starts, instead of 130, there are 150 
 stars to collect... AND MINIGAMES.
  
  Minigames are unlocked when the player catches a rabbit. Each character has their specific minigame, 
 and the location of the rabbits varies from character to character.
  The minigames use the touch screen and are fun fun fun!
  
  You can also play Super Mario 64 
 DS in multiplayer against 3 opponents. Cool thing is that only one card is necessary to play it.
 
  
  Gameplay- The controls can be a little frustrating at times, or at some levels, but not problematic, 
 you will get used to them.
  
  Graphics- Are pretty neat for the DS, better than the n64 version.
  
  Sound- The surround is 
 awesome.
  
  Value- HUGE! You won't stop until you get all the stars, and even if you get the stars, you won't 
 get bored with the minigames.
  
  Conclusion. If you own a DS, this game is a must have. BUY IT 
::::::

::::::
UserName: guard12
Rating: 9.6
Date: Jul 24, 2005 10:09 pm PT
Review:  Need I say alot on this game. C'mon this game was a classic for the N64 and it doesn't dissapoint 
 for the DS. It allows you to play a multiplayer in this game and thats not all. There is more stars 
 in the game (just so its not a another port) . There are 30 new stars to be found and you get to 
 control more characters like Yoshi, Luigi, and Wario. Although I dont like using certain characters 
 just to get there special ability. For example, Wario is the only one that break blocks and turn 
 metal. Luigi is the only that can turn invisible. Mario is the only one that can fly and float. 
 Yoshi is the most original one because he breath fire which i tought was pretty cool. But other 
 than that, this is a must own for ALL DS owners. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cpke122
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jul 21, 2005 1:23 pm PT
Review:  Review Super Mario 64 DS
  ----------------------------------
  
  Gameplay:
  
  When you start the game you will see Mario/Yoshi playing around on the bottom screen, a nice extra 
 is when you touch the faces of them you can transform thel in some kind of monsters, whaah! ^^ 
 When you like at the right of the bottom screen you'll see 'Rec Room', you can play tons of mini-games 
 here, from catapulting bombs into enemies with the stylus to putting Mario's face on his body within 
 a few seconds are only a few examples. You can unlock these mini-games by catching rabbits in Story 
 Mode. In Story Mode you have to find the 150 Power Stars, these were stolen by Bowser, but, he 
 also kidnapped Princess Peach, Wario, Luigi and yes, even Mario! But... who do we play with then?? 
 Yoshi of course, you start with a simple level like Bob-omb Battlefield and you end up by smashing 
 Bowser into some kind of cactusses, of course, it doesn't just tickle Bowser, no, of course not! 
 The cactusses will explode, yay! After a couple of times doing this, Mario will fly away, Bowser's 
 as dead as h*ll and the game ends. ^^ 
  
  9/10
  
  Graphics:
  
  The graphics of Super Mario 64 are amazingly well, when you look back to the original version of 
 the game (on the Nintendo 64) it's like WOW! :o Everything excists of polygons, the characters 
 are very detailed with round faces, winking eyes, real clothing, ... . Everything fully in 3D. 
 So you'll not hear me complain about this! ;)
  
  10/10
  
  Sound:
  
  Nintendo has done great with putting in surround sound! When you're running around you know where 
 you are, when there other characters, you really hear where they're coming from. So that's very 
 great. The voices of the characters aren't that good but they're still very well done. So I'll 
 give it a 9. 
  
  9/10
  
  Value:
  
  The value of this game is very high! I've got this game at the launch of the Nintendo DS, March 
 11. Since then, I still didn't complete the game, and yet, I had to use a walkthrough to get about 
 50/60 stars. A very long gameplay and when you've completed the Story Mode, you can still play 
 the mini-games, they own like h*ll! There are about 30 mini-games, so, have fun!
  
  8/10
  
  Reviewer's Tilt:
  
  A year ago, I just hated Nintendo. Now, since March 11, since I bought 
 my DS with Mario64, I'm totally addicted to it! I was doubting, should I buy a PSP or a DS? hmm... 
 Well, I think I'm going to buy a PSP later, when prices are about 150 or something like that. 
 Because for now, I'm addicted to my DS, and It's a great handheld, especially with Mario64, the 
 game's finished at every aspect!
  
  10/10
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: dblockcentral
Rating: 9.1
Date: Jul 19, 2005 12:52 pm PT
Review:  Super Mario 64 DS is one of the best action games for the DS system. Super Mario 64 DS has great 
 gameplay and the graphics for this game is amazing. The DS version of Super Mario 64 has graphics 
 equal to the Super Mario 64 for the Nintendo 64. The sound for this game is also amazing and so 
 is the value of this game. Super Mario 64 DS is a very long game and it can become addictive at 
 times and frustrating at times. You can play with four different characters on Super Mario 64 DS. 
 Unlocking three of the four characters in Super Mario 64 DS is kind of fun and exciting because 
 each character has a special power. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: VitamiX
Rating: 10
Date: Jul 16, 2005 12:53 pm PT
Review:  I dont ever rate games Tens, but here I had to. Forget what eveeryone says about the controls. 
 They are better than the N64 game's. I would know because I played those two games an hour apart. 
 The Graphics are better, the first 3D 3rd person perspective seen on the DS (Madden fans- Super 
 Mario 64 DS was announced first) and it proves just how much a difference 6 bits can make.
  As anybody who has played the game would know, this is not a port, or a port with a few new things. 
 No. As I read in Nintendo Power, this game was built from the ground up. They used the same levels, 
 remade, and slightly recoloured. The n64 colours were too fruity. The game is still colourful, 
 but not overdone.
  Last, but not least, Value. See the time spent? 100 or more. There are 150 stars, 30 more than 
 the original, and enough motivation to keep you going till you get the last one. 
  I have all 150. What you get is a cannon in the courtyard, formerly covered in grating. This lets 
 you shoot yourself up to the top of the castle. You will find 3 1-Up mushrooms and a ! block. use 
 that to fly around the courtyard, or whatever your charachters power is.
  Buy it now. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Bnfbnggbfg1
Rating: 6.2
Date: Jul 15, 2005 5:17 am PT
Review:  While Mario games tend to be "fun" and Mario 64 is said to be "great", this ins't that fun. First 
 of all, it's hard to control, secondly, the levels are bland. Thirdly the touchpad is beyond useless. 
 Including Yoshi, the homosexual in Jurasic Park as the first character, hell, at all was a bad 
 move. Nobody likes Yoshi. All he does is make stupid noises and eat things then crap out eggs. 
 EGGS. Isn't Yoshi supposed to be male? Males don't have eggs. The "Male" seahorse is really female, 
 but Yoshi ain't. Couldn't they have him just chew people up and spit out their bones like a real 
 dinosaur? 
  Also, the levels tend to repeat. "Do this, go here, kill that, get the star, blah blah blah."
 
  
  Graphics. Fairly good.
  
  Gameplay. Repetative.
  
  Funness. Not really. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: superduperyoshi
Rating: 8.8
Date: Jul 10, 2005 9:22 pm PT
Review:  This is no ordinary port. First of all, it is Super Mario 64, the godfather of 3D platformers. 
 Second, it is on a new, innovative portable system. And Third, you cant go wrong with Mario. First 
 impression of the game: I cant believe Im playing SM64 on the go. The graphics are amazing for 
 a portable. Everything has volume and mass, its not flat like on GBA. The screen and colors are 
 bright and the animation is 
  awesome. The camera is a little off at times, but youll manage. If you play the original, then 
 play this, the difference in graphics is enormous, a major improvement. The controls are also not 
 as good as the analog stick on the N64, in all three configurations. Plus, you can play as Yoshi, 
 Luigi, and Wario in addition to Mario. And every character has a special ability such as fire-breathing 
 (Yoshi) , floating (Mario) , Invisibility (Luigi) , and Metal (Wario) . Also included are minigames. 
 You start off with 8, but if you catch bunnies hidden in the castle, you can unlock a total of 
 36 minigames. My favorite is either of the pinball games ( Lotto Ball and Slot Ball) , but with 
 so many to choose from I love them all. 
  
  8.8 out of 10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cheezisgoooood
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jul 9, 2005 7:48 pm PT
Review:  It's christmas time, you've been eagerly anticipating this moment the whole year, and there are 
 dozens of presents under the tree. You run over to the tree, and you open each present one by one, 
 hoping it's the one thing you wanted this year. You look at all the presents, and you smile for 
 the camera, but the one thing you REALLY want is in that box right behind the tree. You crawl back 
 behind it (you're eight years old) , you jump on the couch with your big, heavy box, and you open 
 it, and it's like that moment in Willy Wonka and the chocolate factory, where Charlie opens the 
 package to find the golden ticket. You unwrap the present, and you steadily tear the colorful paper 
 away to see the letters "Nintendo 64." That's right. It's the christmas of 1996, and you've just 
 gotten the latest in gaming technology, and inside that box came the game that every kid on the 
 playground was talking about. Super Mario 64.
  
  I remember when I first got my Nintendo 64. I dunno, there's just this... magic... that comes from 
 getting a new system. If it was the Super Nintendo at the end of the 80's, or the latest system, 
 the PSP, there's always this... magic... that you feel when you see that box, you take off the tape, 
 and you open it to see with your very own eyes the system that you, or your parents, spent a lot 
 of money for you to enjoy. The one system, though, that was so full of this... magic... that it almost 
 over-whelmed me as a child, was the nintendo 64. It was actually the first game system I had ever 
 seen new out of the box. My Super Nintendo was actually my brother's, he had gotten it when I was 
 only a couple years old, so I couldn't ever really remember him getting it, and my sister gave 
 me her Game Gear because she wasn't using it anymore. Nintendo 64 was the first one I had gotten 
 at christmas time, and with Super Mario 64 as my first game for that new system, no other game 
 has left such an impression on my gaming life.
  
  When that... magic... came from my Nintendo DS, it was to my surprise and nostalgia, that with that 
 new system, I was getting the exact same game I had gotten years ago. That same game that had an 
 impact on my memory. You can't imagine the nostalgia and amazement you feel unless you play Super 
 Mario 64 DS on your own Nintendo Ds system.
  
  Super Mario 64 DS is the same game, with the same levels, but with more. The hidden sliding level 
 in the stained glass window on the top right corner of the main room is still there. The bob-omb 
 world is still the door to the very left on the bottom level of the main room. There are still 
 ghosts in the yard outside in the back through the two wooden doors beside the main staircase. 
 You'll be amazed by how much of the little things in the original game you will remember, and how 
 many you won't. There are new stars to collect, new stages to play, and a new introduction to the 
 game, where you start out as yoshi trying to save Mario, Luigi, and Wario from Bowser's minions. 
 You do this by playing newly-made levels made exclusively for the DS version, and I must say, they're 
 pretty darn good. They have just the same look and feel of every other level in the game, but with 
 the same mark of excellence every Nintend-made product has. As long as Nintendo is still Nintendo, 
 these new stages are excellent. The old stages have also remained totally intact, with the same 
 charm they had in the original.
  
  The only REAL problem with this game are the controls. You probably know very well by now that 
 the DS does not have an analog stick. You have two options for controls. The more precise and sensitive 
 touch-screen control to walk and run, or the D-Pad and face buttons. The D-Pad and face buttons 
 are definitely better for the multiplayer (which I will get into later) , but I use the touch-screen 
 for the actual game.
  
  Also included in this game are two excellent additions to the game that really do make this a game 
 worth buying for your DS. If you catch the newly-added rabbits that hop around the castle randomly, 
 you gain access to a new minigame. All these minigames use the stylus to play, and almost all of 
 them are superb. My personal favorite is the one where you draw trampolines under your flying marios 
 for them to bounce on in order to get them through colored rings for points. These are highly addictive, 
 and they really do add extra motivation to catch these rabbits. Next is the multiplayer mode. It's 
 not the best multiplayer game on the DS, but it's definitely fun and competitive. What you do is, 
 you collect stars that are stuck in glass cases around four different maps to choose from, and 
 you can play with up to three other friends. Whoever has the most stars by the end of the game 
 wins. You can capture one of your opponents' stars by punching them, stomping them, or, if they're 
 a yoshi, eating them and spitting them out. If you get any of the hats scattered around the map, 
 you get the powers of either Luigi, Mario, or Wario, depending on what color hat it is. Luigi jumps 
 high, Mario can fly, and Wario can knock you unconscious. Both of these new gameplay modes definitely 
 make this game worth the $30 it costs to buy the game, and so do the new stages and new stars in 
 the main game.
  
  I recommend this for DS fans, Nintendo fans, and people who want some nostalgic portable bliss. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SOAD3PAUL
Rating: 9.2
Date: Jul 4, 2005 10:44 pm PT
Review:  this game is even better then Mario64.. I think somethings in this game look better then Mario64.. but 
 I like Mario64 graphics mroe
  
  This game has the same great single player with some new charcters and stars//
  the Multiplayer 
 in this game is good for 15 minutes at a time
  but the best part about this game is...
  the mini games
  I can play this bad boys for hours at a time.. trying to beat my friends, and 
 sister's high scores
  
  must own for DS owns, and any gamer!!
  I give the gameplay 10/10.. great gameplay!!
  graphics I give a 8/10.. there good, but not great
 
  the sound is awesome.. its like surround sound.. hearing those birds cherp.. its nice
  valye 9/10
  tilt 9/20 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MoodyFlame
Rating: 8.2
Date: Jun 30, 2005 2:31 pm PT
Review:  As you recall from the N64 version, Princess Toadstool (or Peach) invites Mario to her castle for 
 some cake, only this time, he is not alone, he Appears along with Luigi and Wario. From here on 
 the beginning of the story is quite different. The three of them fool around a bit then enter the 
 castle, then you find out that Yoshi was slacking on the castle roof-top. Then Yoshi wakes up (on 
 the castle grounds, which is quite whacked up if you ask me) only to find that Mario hasn't returned 
 yet, then the gameplay starts. You have to go to the castle doors and realise they're locked then 
 you have to find a rabbit using the map (which is located at the bottom screen) .
  
  Enough about the story now some facts and game play elements about Mario 64 DS. For all you people 
 anxious to use the touch-screen and test some of the DS's special and unique features, I'll tell 
 you from now, don't put your hopes up. The touch screen is only used for a map or as analogue control 
 (again, sorry to everyone put down, but the analogue control resembles everything but analogue!) 
 which barely covers up for bad controls the game has to offer and to add to that, Nintendo, also, 
 decided to make all on-game menus rely solely on the touchscreen which just another lame excuse 
 to say that the touching is good (but that only goes for this game, of course) . Also, the camera 
 can be quite frustrating at times making either run off the road or run into an enemy and therefore 
 triggering the annoying howls of pain Mario yells when hurt or when fallen off the road!
  
  Those were the major downs of this game, as for the ups, well, to start, that graphics, especially 
 for the characters, are much sharper and their outlines are much smoother, the environment is brightly 
 coloured and attractive. The addition of Wario, Luigi and Yoshi adds much more gameplay elements 
 not done by the N64 version, for instance, you can only break black blocks by Wario, you can become 
 invisible with Luigi using the power flower not to mention that there are now 150 stars rather 
 than 120 and so on...
  
  The multi-player is a good bonus, especially that up to 4 players can play using only one cartridge 
 due to the DS's download feature. The multi-player is only limited to four levels, however, 2 of 
 them being quite diminutive in size but are still good fun if you feel like chilling out with your 
 friends from the sometimes, devilish difficulty of the game. The drawing feature (which is accessed 
 by touching either Mario's or Yoshi's face at the title screen) is loads better than the N64 version 
 which was only stretching and messing up Mario's face and the mini-games are a good break from, 
 as I mentioned previously, the sometimes devilish difficulty of the game.
  
  Over all, Mario 64 DS has made some mistakes but it is a fun experience and although I have mentioned 
 loads of bad stuff, if you enjoy any 3D Mario games this provides some solid gameplay and makes 
 a good first game choice for the DS. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Se_BBB_e
Rating: 9.4
Date: Jun 29, 2005 3:15 pm PT
Review:  This is an excellent game for the DS. It shows off the systems technical abilities as well as the 
 dual screen layout and the touch screen. It has very much substance and contains 36 addictive mini 
 games which are very fun. The main game (adventure mode) has 150 stars to collect, 30 more than 
 the original. There are 15 levels and some secret ones. You can also play as different characters 
 with their own special moves which are required by some levels.
  
  Nintendo has taken an already excellent game, loved by many, and made it even better. The old game 
 was long, but this time there are mini games, 30 more stars, wireless 1-cart multiplayer (although 
 it feels rushed) , 3 more playable characters, and plenty more hours of non-stop entertainment.
 
  
  The graphics looks very good even without texture filtering (which the N64 game had) and the music 
 is absolutely perfect. It has an extremely large amount of tunes which are all of very high quality 
 and it also has a varied library of sound effects. The stereo speakers are used very good, and 
 there is even a surround sound simulation.
  
  The only thing missing from the N64 version is an analog controller, but Nintendo has managed to 
 make the controls surprisingly good without an analog controller. There are many different enemies 
 and dynamic objects which make the environments feel alive.
  
  A highly recommended game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lziraK
Rating: 9.6
Date: Jun 27, 2005 5:21 pm PT
Review:  I'll stick everything in order.
  
  Graphics: 8/10 They look very nice but it feels a little un smooth a circle is like an octagon. 
 Other than that what can I say it's a handheld not an X-Box.
  
  Sound: 9/10 It feels so much like the classic game its like reliving your childhood memories the 
 whole castle theme "Bum, Bum, Bum, Bu, Bu, Bu, Bu, Bum" I love it.
  
  Controls: from 5/10 to 9/10 At first you hate it but when you get used to it it couldn't feel better. 
 For those of you like me who can't use the touch screen since it feels weird may have a little 
 choppiness.
  
  Replay Value: ?/10 the minigames give the game great replay value and the game itself when you 
 try beating the game different ways it's like a new experience. Though at one point you wouldn't 
 want to touch the game. But when you do it's like you just got a new game.
  
  Game Play: 10/10 This game is so good I can't even describe it there's no words to even say it's 
 perfection. All I can say is Fun.
  
  The Game: 10/10 Do I need to say more? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: timo710
Rating: 8.8
Date: Jun 24, 2005 11:52 am PT
Review:  Mario 64 Was A great game I spent a lot of time playing it , almost 10 years later I did it again 
 . I Own all the stars And beaten bowser with mario. But When The end scene stopped the game restarted 
 and it said super mario 46 DS.
  Thats right. It owned me : 
  I got 36 Minigames
  150 Stars.
  and mario got peach's puzzy.
  It was such a great experience playing it . 
  You 
 start out as yoshi. 
  Bowser hid mario in the castle walls . 
  But not only mario also luigi and wario.
  all the characters have thier own special abillities.
 
  Mario : Fast and he got the walljump.
  yoshi : can spitt fire.
  Luigi can Jump Realy High
  Wario has enormess strenght. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kittykatz5k
Rating: 8.3
Date: Jun 21, 2005 5:18 pm PT
Review:  If you know me, you know I hate to rant so lets cut to the chase.
  
  Gameplay: This is still to this day a highly enjoyable game, and just beating the game is the best 
 part but thats sadly a downside as once you beat the game, it starts to lack as you don't get anything 
 new untill you get all 150 stars. But surprisingly, the additions to the game like the mushroom 
 and the 4 charecters all feel so natural and not like a throwen in last minute thing.
  
  graphix: this game looks great, in some places, even better then its consle counterpart and equal 
 in just about every other spot. While some things may look better due to a smaller screen, I don't 
 care what goes on back stage as long as I like what I'm seeing.
  
  Sound: This sounds just like its n64 counterpart and I was surprised by that as up till now, the 
 only quality I knew for a handheld was gba bleeps and bloops with the fuzzy voices.
  
  Value: This is a fun game and will take you a while to get everything but the second half of the 
 game you have to force yourself to go through and you may just try to resort to the castle roof 
 glitch just because its so frustrating backtracking through all those levels. But over all it keeps 
 its fun and I very often find my self going back for a quick round of mini games.
  
  Overall its a great ds game that should be something most people who buy the ds start with. While 
 in a few places it lacks, it definetly makes up for and the highly whined about control sceam isnt 
 something thats to big a problem, after 15 minutes, I was running through the castle with dpad 
 set up just like I would with anolog set up. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: KKx2000
Rating: 8.6
Date: Jun 20, 2005 3:26 pm PT
Review:  Super Mario 64, released in 1996, changed Mario a great deal. Super Mario 64 was a great game and 
 many of us spent many hours playing through the colorful world it offered. Now Super Mario 64 is 
 out for Nintendos new handheld system, the Nintendo DS. Super Mario 64 DS gives you the good old 
 game plus many new features. The game presents a lot of new stuff as I mentioned and thats what 
 makes this game really interesting. Here you dont only play Mario but you get to play Yoshi, Luigi 
 and Wario as well. Super Mario 64 DS is a really good game that in some cases lives up to the original. 
 It really warms my heart to have the legendary game in my pocket at all times.
  
  Graphics:
  The graphics are really great and enjoyable. The characters look great and despite 
 a few bad textures it runs on smooth frame rate and overall the game is colorful and looks very 
 alive. Of course it helps that your playing it on a small screen which smoothens some rough spots 
 out. The map on the lower screen seems to work quite well. And even though its not perfect you 
 cant really complain. The graphics in the mini-games are also very nice. All in all the graphics 
 look great and Super Mario 64 DS puts on a great show.
  
  
  Plot:
  The plot is pretty much the same as it is in the older game. Princess Peach invites you too her 
 castle but she is then kidnapped. It is up to Mario, Luigi, Wario and Yoshi to come to her aid. 
 Mostly you jump into paintings and thereby enter a nice colorful level filled with all sorts of 
 wild things. Your main objective is too collect power stars from the levels. With the stars you 
 can access different places and in the end you must save Princess Peach after fighting Bowser a 
 few times. The story is nice and the action is better. The levels are mostly bright and colorful. 
 Everyone should have a good time playing Mario 64 DS.
  
  
  Gameplay:
  The gameplay works well for the most part except bad controls. The controls really do mess things 
 up a bit and at times you might get frustrated enough to jump in front of your TV and plug your 
 N64. The controls could, by all means, be a bit tighter. Falling of cliffs happens a bit too often 
 and some stars are way to hard to find. Beeing a huge fan of the old Super Mario 64 for the Nintendo 
 64 I didnt have to many problems but some new timers might have it rough. Some stars are simply 
 to hard to find and you might find yourself turning your DS off a few times because you simply 
 cant find the damn star. Even tough a few stars might be tough to find you will most likely find 
 them later on and there is most likely plenty of other stuff to do. The controls are quite annoying 
 but youll get used to it. Lets not forget the touch-sensitive mini-games you can get by catching 
 rabbits. These mini-games can be fun for short periods of time and its nice playing them when 
 you seem stuck in Adventure Mode. If you know other DS owners you can play a competitive four-player 
 mode. This mode takes advantage of the systems wireless game download feature and therefor only 
 one of you needs to have the Super Mario 64 DS gamecard (does not work for all DS titles) . But, 
 this multiplayer mode is quite boring and even tough it can be fun for several minutes its not 
 something you will be coming back to again. The goal of this multiplayer game is to be the player 
 with the most stars when the time ends. Meaning you will have to battle the other players for the 
 stars. You can only select a few levels for this mode and as I said, its a nice extra but really 
 nothing that interesting.
  
  Sound:
  The sound is great. Just like in the old game. It retains the same music tough a few new speech 
 samples have been added for the new characters. The music is memorable and enjoyable. Some effects 
 seem to be played on low bitrate but for the most part everything is smooth and the tunes are great. 
 The music is, like almost everything about this game, colorful and bright and really makes you 
 feel good.
  
  Overall, Super Mario 64 DS is a really good game and if you have a DS you should own this game. 
 It is definitely the best game out for the DS yet.
  
  -Kristfer K. a. k. a KKx2000 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ixlr8evo8
Rating: 9.4
Date: Jun 20, 2005 4:32 am PT
Review:  Nintendo surprised me with this game. When I saw "Super Mario 64x4" under the DS section I was 
 like Psh... Bleh... Meh... That isn't Mario 128... darn it... and I immediately blew it off thinking 
 it was another stupid remake. But I was DEARLY wrong. This game does have some negative in it, 
 but has WAY too much positive that gets overlooked.
  
  Gameplay (9/10) - The only complaint, THE ONLY, is the fact that there was no analog stick on the 
 DS to fully enjoy this game. My thumb started hurting when trying to do certain moves and although 
 they are responsive, you don't get the manuevering capabilities that you used to. At first, I was 
 a little disappointed on how the touch screen was used, but then I unlocked the minigames, and 
 as so excited... they are so fun and the touch screen plays them all very nicely. Framerate was 
 AWESOME, and I noticed almost no slowdown, definately one of the smoothest running DS games, and 
 definately the best looking one.
  
  Graphics (10/10) - The screenshots don't do the game justice, this game looks even better on the 
 DS than it did on the N64. The new additions like being Yoshi, Wario, and Luigi, and having them 
 battle and their graphic models are al really great. The minigames are a little cheap looking, 
 but incredibly fun. This game is overall just as beautiful, and even more, than Super Mario 64. 
 I feel that this game is a great showcase of what the DS can do.
  
  Sound (10/10) - Voices, explosions, music, attacks, snores, chimes, everything was very crisp and 
 very clear through headphones and the DS speakers. This game sounds just as good as it looks and 
 plays, and that means its very good. I was surprised on how good the sound on the DS actually was 
 when I heard this game; I didn't realize how much more powerful it was than the Gameboy Advance 
 and Gameboy Advance SP's sound was.
  
  Value (10/10) - At first I was skeptical about trying a game that I spent so many hours trying 
 to beat 7 years ago, but as soon as I put the game it, there were already major differences. In 
 fact, this game has so many differences, it is almost a new game entirely. One thing that I really 
 like about this game and I thank Nintendo a lot for adding this, is the mini-games. Although they 
 take a long time to unlock them all, they are a great addition. I also really like the multiplayer 
 games, they are really fun, and even when playing against 3 other people, framerate was good. Everything 
 about this game makes you want to pick it up the next day!
  
  The best DS game out right now... end of story... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DefaultGen
Rating: 8
Date: Jun 16, 2005 11:51 pm PT
Review:  Yes you've all played Mario 64, and if you haven't, you really should and this is -almost- the 
 same exact game. I guess Nintendo was trying to show off how the DS could pull off N64 graphics 
 so they made... yes an N64 game! Again. But we've already beaten it and it might get old easily 
 because of this. Think of it as Mario: Master Quest. The game isn't harder however, its very easy. 
 If you've beaten Super Mario 64 a few times, you can breeze through Mario DS in a week. But considering 
 the DS's current lacking lineup and the great game that Mario 64 still is... Mario DS is still 
 worth a purchase for almost any DS owner.
  
  - - - - - Mini Review (Because you're not gonna read this) - - - - -
  
  Super Mario 64 DS offers 
 minor changes to the classic Mario 64. While they can offer a little variety, the core gameplay 
 is exactly the same. Returning players to the game should breeze through it in a week, while new 
 players will be presented with a wonderful game that still holds some challenge. The graphics and 
 sound are largely unchanged and the controls leave something to be desired. The Minigames will 
 last you a while and some are quite good bu they lose appeal eventually. Also the multiplayer is 
 mediocre at best, you won't play it for long. It's an exceptional game, except that it seems a 
 little too much of the same.
  
  - - - - - Gameplay: 8/10 - - - - -
  
  Many would argue for a higher rating but Mario DS gets a solid 8 out of 10. The gameplay is dated. 
 There are a few new perks in Mario DS such as playing as 3 other characters with various abilities 
 and theres something like 30 bonus stars but 90% of the game is the same as before. The gameplay 
 is hindered by the controls. The touch screen controlling take a very long time to get used to 
 and still youll find yourself accidently pushing yourself off ledges. The D-Pad control is much 
 easier, but it takes a little more time to get yourself looking exactly the right way that you 
 want to. The control of the camera is nice (you just press the L button to center it) . Nothing 
 really takes too much away from the Mario gameplay. You jump into paintings then run around large 
 levels collecting coins and stars, only this time around sometimes you'll need to jump a little 
 higher with Luigi or break a rock with Wario.
  
  Theres a ton of Minigames to unlock by catching rabbits that randomly run around the castle and 
 there are a few new special stages and areas of the castle that were put in to Mario DS which are 
 pretty fun to see for the first time. Caps are another new element of gameplay. Around each level 
 there are various caps (such as Marios, Luigis and Wario's) When you pick them up, you turn into 
 that character and gain all of their abilities. It varies gameplay a bit, but I really would have 
 preferred some more drastic changes. Other than that the only thing different this time around 
 is a few graphical upgrades and some graphical changes.
  
  - - - - - Graphics: 8/10 - - - - -
  
  The graphics are basically Mario 64 with slightly upgraded 
 graphics. For the DS, they look pretty great but I know for a fact the DS can do much better. This 
 early in the system's lifetime, doing graphics betting than N64 is a great accomplishment though. 
 Nearly everything looks identical to the N64 version. Everything is very colorful and the worlds 
 look every bit as great as they did the first time around. It runs at a very solid framerate, no 
 problems there.
  
  - - - - - Sound: 8/10 - - - - -
  
  You've heard the sound before. All the music and voices are the same, except for a few new voices 
 for Yoshi, Wario, and Luigi of course. The music is memorable, as always, in fact you probably 
 still remember all of it. It will all be nothing new. The biggest sound surprise is that when mario 
 double-jumps they took out possibly the best sound effect in the game.. the "woo-hoo" and replaced 
 it with a simple "yah." It is more disappointing than it sounds, haha. The sound score isn't a 
 9 or 10 because there is the occasional bad sounding effect and simply because its nothing new.
 
  
  - - - - - Value: 8/10 - - - - -
  
  It has an adventure, mini-games, and multiplayer! How can it not be a 10! Well a few cool mini-games 
 are the only reason this port doesn't score a 7! Mario 64 fans will absolutely breeze through this 
 game. The adventure, while kind of long, is easy and even easier when you already know where 90% 
 of the game's stars are. Sometimes it will feel like a hassle getting a star because it just involves 
 solving a puzzle you've completed years ago. The game still is fun though, and there are bits to 
 it that feel new.
  
  After you've unlocked everything from adventure, there are a bunch of mediocre minigames to go 
 to. Some of them are actually very fun but most are just plain bad. They will keep you occupied 
 for a while, and they are currently the only reason I still play the game.
  
  The multiplayer is also mediocre at best. Mario DS sports 4 player multiplayer off just one cartridge 
 but it really isn't anything great. The 2-4 of you run around various courses collecting stars 
 for about a minute then beat each other up to steal stars. Its not overly fun and the whole thing 
 feels more like a Mario Party minigame that it does the multiplayer mode of an entire game. There 
 are better multiplayer DS games out there.
  
  - - - - - Tilt: 8/10 - - - - -
  
  While I enjoyed Mario DS very much, I have to say that it just didn't offer enough things that 
 were new to truly impress me. It was a very fun experience while it lasted and at the moment, Mario 
 DS is probably the most fun DS game out there for anyone. I wish there was more, but alas, the 
 N64 game was excellent and any handheld version of it really couldn't be all that bad could it?
 
  
  - - - - - Minor Notes - - - - -
  
  Difficulty: If you haven't played Mario 64, the game will present a bit of a challenge to you. 
 But if you have played, face it, you know absolutely everything about the game. Even the small 
 differences in locations of stars will be SO easy to figure out. For example, the star "Metal Head 
 Mario can Move" is now "Metal Head Wario can Move." Take a wild guess, you put on the Wario hat 
 and get the star as you normally would.
  
  Learning curve: Again, if you've played Mario 64 you already know 99% of the game. There are a 
 few new tricks to learn such as double-jumping and turning goombas into eggs with Yoshi but it's 
 all very easy to pick up. It shouldn't be a problem to learn anything new for returning or new 
 gamers.
  
  Recommendation:
  
  Get Mario DS if you have a DS. If you haven't played Mario 64, this will keep you occupied for 
 weeks as you delve into the world of Mario 64. But if you have played it, it's still worth a purchase, 
 more for nostalgia than the minor changes to the core game. You will absolutely rampage through 
 this game, it will seem way to easy. The minigames are good enough to keep you coming back to play 
 them and the core game has aged rather well. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BinaryCulture
Rating: 9
Date: Jun 14, 2005 7:54 am PT
Review:  Super Mario 64s debut with Nintendos penultimate 64 sent shockwaves through the industry. The 
 first, and arguably best, of the beloved 3D adventures, Mario 64 is an absolute delight. It is 
 no wonder that Nintendos new Dual Screen portable, launching with none other than a retooling 
 of the plumber classic, has such a wide appeal. How can one go wrong with one of the greatest games 
 ever made?
  
  Super Mario 64 DS is not just a re-release of the N64 classic. The game stars Marios reptilian 
 friend Yoshi, as the little green dinosaur tries to rescue not only Princess Peach, but Mario as 
 well. The game begins with Yoshi outside the Mushroom Kingdoms castle, and to everyones shock 
 and awe, nobody is home. For the most part, nothing has changed in the classic formula. Each level 
 is hidden behind paintings that can be leapt into, and each area contains numerous stars to collect, 
 among other objectives. The twist is that Yoshi can grab special hats and transform into Mario, 
 Luigi, or Wario. Some stages require the player to find one of said hats in order to complete the 
 star.
  
  Almost all of the mission objectives from Super Mario 64 are the same, save for the addition of 
 occasional hat hunting. However Nintendo did go an extra half-mile and added new missions, most 
 of which involve, go figure, collecting stars. Thankfully, other new additions were implemented 
 by route of mini games.
  
  In Princess Peachs room, there is a large chest with a long series of drawers. Each drawer can 
 be opened with a key found while playing the main adventure. Mini games in Super Mario 64 DS all 
 take advantage of the touch screen capabilities of the Nintendo DS, and to great effect. At first, 
 players can select Rec Room from the main menu and jump directly to the games, but initially 
 only three per character are available. Most of these games are pretty simple and do not show off 
 the 3D processing power of the system. Regardless, I found the mini games to be highly entertaining, 
 as most of them require an interaction with the game most would find unusual. I find it charming. 
 My favorite mini game has players slinging cannon balls at parachuting bomb-ombs using the stylus 
 to pull the sling back and release.
  
  The core of Nintendos kind-of new adventure does not use the touch screen like some of the other 
 launch games, such as Feel the Magic XX/XY. In fact, almost all of the game can be played with 
 the directional pad and buttons. However, if one so desired, the touch screen can act as something 
 more than just a map. By placing the stylus on the screen and moving it in a specific direction, 
 Yoshi will follow in tow. Essentially, movement on the touch screen doubles as movement by the 
 d-pad, but the feature gives the game a distinct feel.
  
  Super Mario 64 DS has excellent graphics. I have never seen a portable game look like this, and 
 I own a Nokia N-Gage. Colors on both of the DS screens are sharp and vibrant, and the textures 
 are free of the terrible blurring that games developed for the N64 suffered from. The game looks 
 like it could have been developed for the Dreamcast, minus that systems texture smoothing. Audio, 
 likewise, is fantastic on the DS. From the main menu, users can change sound options from speakers 
 to stereo to surround. When I heard that the DS included surround speakers, I was skeptical. Not 
 any more. Super Mario 64 DS sounds fantastic on the DS speakers, I cannot stress this enough. From 
 the very beginning of Super Mario 64 DS, I was absolutely amazed that Nintendo could generate sound 
 with such depth.
  
  Super Mario 64 DS is easily the best game available for the Nintendo DS. If you own a DS, or plan 
 on owning a DS, there is no way you can pass up this game.
  
  Super Mario 64 DS is rated E (Everyone) by the ESRB.
  
  Stephen Webster is the Editor-in-Chief 
 of Binary Culture. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mik19
Rating: 9.2
Date: Jun 10, 2005 8:42 am PT
Review:  This game was the first and still the best Ds game ever made. No one can describe it as trash. 
 Every had to at least like the classic platformer. The game gets allitle hard sometimes. ANd it 
 is hard to find the new storyline stars. It was hard to find luigi but after that it got better 
 and better. The controlings got allitle worse, but i still like it. If u want a good game to buy 
 you should buy this one. If you want to buy a new portable buy a Ds over a PSP at the end of the 
 year, because thats when all the good games come out. ( Reffering to Sims 2, Age of Empires, Shogon 
 Warrior, Blac and White Creatures, New Super MArio Bros, Advance Wars, and Metroid Prime Hunters.) 
 Ifyou get a Ds now for starter games get Super Mario Ds, Asphault Urban Gt, The Urbz, and World 
 Championship Poker. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gruntyking117
Rating: 9.2
Date: Jun 9, 2005 4:38 am PT
Review:  As a gamer, I've enjoyed many games, but few have ever brought me happiness like Super Mario 64. 
 The game, considered by many to be greatest of all games, has already earned rave reviews, and 
 it's tenure in the buisness. But what if you could take that experience and make it portable? Let's 
 ago!
  
  First of all, the bad. The system could have really used a control stick, cause the controls have 
 been almost crushed by the fact you have to use a D-pad! If you remember, Super Mario 64 revolutionized 
 the gaming world with the control stick, but seeing how Nintendo's pride gets in the way, The 'pad 
 is kept in favor of a control stick. If you also remember they created the D-pad, too. But, not 
 all is lost. For the touch screen comes to the rescue! With the Wrist Strap (free with DS) It feels 
 like good ol' Super Mario 64 again. 
  
  Also, what's worse, if you remember E3 2004, Super Mario 64 DS was called 'Super Mario 64x4, implying 
 a multiplayer romp. With only 4 maps (ripped from the single player, no less) and a rather worthless 
 gameplay mode 'Collect the Stars' for the mutiplayer, I was extremely disappointed. I was expecting 
 some co-op.*sigh* 
  
  Now, to the good.
  
  Speaking of extras, the DS's touch screen serves a better purpose-Mini-Games! Theses games can 
 actually call themselves rivals to Warioware-if there were more of them.
  
  The Graphics are also improved. They sport higher, crisper detail than the original and are somewhat 
 less cartoony.
  
  All in all Super Mario 64 retains everything that its forerunner had, lost some momentum with the 
 controls, but gained it back with Graphics, minigames, and pure replayability.
  
  This is a highly reccomendable game-and the best of the DS launch. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dethking
Rating: 8.4
Date: Jun 4, 2005 11:16 pm PT
Review:  It's a shame. Although alot of people will buy this game, others will refuse to buy it, simply 
 because they define it as a straight port of Super Mario 64, without bothering to find out whether 
 it is a port or not. Well to those of you who overlooked Super Mario 64 DS because you thought 
 of it as simply a "port", you made a serious mistake. Yes, it is the same as Super Mario 64 in 
 some respects, such as the levels, and the basic storyline is similar. However, so much has been 
 added, that even for those who have played Super Mario 64 before, there is something here for everyone. 
 There are plenty of new challenges for players of the original to get stuck in, including a new 
 selection of touch screen mini games, multiplayer and 30 more stars. You even get to play as 4 
 different characters, this time starting off with Yoshi and many new boss battles await as well.
 
  In terms of gameplay, there is alot of "play" to be found in Super Mario 64 DS. Just like the 
 original, there are many levels to explore, and lots of stars to collect. Apart from casual platforming, 
 you get to race, slide down slopes, fight bosses and much more. There are over 15 levels to get 
 stuck into on top of that and 150 stars to collect in those levels and around the castle. The touch 
 screen control makes a good substitute for the N64 control stick, however it is hard to turn corners 
 using it and takes a bit of practice. You'll get used to it evemtually, though. The D-Pad control 
 also isn't too bad. However, it does cause problems due to the button layout, when your running 
 with Y, when trying to attack while running with A, you may click B instead, making you jump instead. 
 This isn't too much of a problem, however, it can be irritating during boss fights. Overall though, 
 the control isn't bad, it just takes getting used to. It'll never feel quite as easy as the Control 
 Stick did, but it in no way ruins the experience. 
  Graphics wise, Super Mario 64 DS looks great. Everything looks alot more polished than in Super 
 Mario 64, even without texture filtering. It looks so bright and colorful on the DS screen and 
 is one of the best looking DS titles so far.
  The sound hasn't changed much, but sounds as good as ever. Coming from the DS speakers, it sounds 
 fabulous. The sound isn't exactly "hum-a-long" sort of music, but it does "add" to the experience.
 
  You'll also get your value's worth for your money. If you never played the original, your getting 
 yourself a fantastic game with more than the original. And even if you did play the original, your 
 getting a new adventure with 150 stars (30 more than the original) , 3 new characters to use, VS 
 mode, 36 touch screen mini games and plenty of new tasks inside the main game. What more do you 
 want?
  In conclusion, Super Mario 64 DS is a must have for people who didn't play the original. Even if 
 you did, there is plenty to be found here, that you are sure to like. Don't let the fact that Super 
 Mario 64 DS originated from a 7 year old N64 game put you off purchasing it, this game is worth 
 every penny and is one of the best reasons to buy a DS right now. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: flamingskullz
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jun 4, 2005 9:05 am PT
Review:  This game is a remake of the classic of the same name on the N64. except there are more stars to 
 collect a character swap option , and loads of touch screen minigames to collect.
  
  Gameplay: although the game itself has some great gameplay like racing and platforming perfection 
 the game uses the touch screen anolog thumb strap whic can make the game frustrating as sometimes 
 you keep falling off platforms because of the movement control.
  
  Graphics: Fantastic full 3-d that looks even better than the N64 version and there isnt any framerate 
 slowdown at all. the first time you play this the graphics will wow you.
  
  Sound: perfect just like the graphics, the sound will wow you. A puzzle in one of the levels makes 
 excellent use of the DS speaker as you have follow Boos laugh. this happens as you hear the laugh 
 the speakers EG he is through a door on the left the sound will come through the left speakerso 
 you can follow it.
  
  Value: The main game will take a while to complete because of the extra stars making more tha a 
 hundred in total, you can also draw on the main menue. In the game when you catch a rabbit you 
 unlock a key to a mini game in the REC room in the game.
  
  Tilt: Overall this is a near perfect game let down by lacklustre movement controlls. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Bryko614
Rating: 8.9
Date: May 31, 2005 8:43 pm PT
Review:  Gameplay: Almost as good as the original!! The controls are a little snappy, and it's not really 
 as fun as on a TV.
  
  Grpahics: Better then the originals, and a port, so PERFECT!!
  
  Sound: I didn't really enjoy the audio. It sounded scratchy and low at some points.
  
  Value: 
 Not good. I don't know why, but you get bored fast.
  
  
  Overall, you should pick this up if you like any game and sound doesn't matter. During the game, 
 you do pick up characters, yet the effect little in the game. Don't choose this just to be Yoshi. 
 The minigames are BAD. Get Touched's minigames. And more stars DOES NOT MEAN MORE FUN. Don't choose 
 this for more stars. I couldn't tell a star difference. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MasterofMages
Rating: 8.5
Date: May 30, 2005 7:33 pm PT
Review:  Well, my main beef with this game is control. It is a little hard to direct the character wiht 
 any of the control set ups. The level by level play makes this great for plane trips and the like 
 due to good stopping points. The graphics are nice but i think they could be better. Sound is ok 
 but i rarely play with it on, i have an ipod for noise after all. The mini-games are fun and its 
 fun trying to get a high score all the time. The different characters are all nice, though wish 
 so many stars didn't require a specific character. Luigi seems a little better than the rest but 
 overall they are balanced. Overall fun and pretty good. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rhamier2004
Rating: 9
Date: May 24, 2005 3:42 am PT
Review:  Mario's back and badder than ever in this classical remake of the Nintendo 64's smash hit super 
 mario 64! SM64DS is a port from the console version. The new features added are: you can now play 
 as Mario, Luigi, Wario, and Yoshi. Each has a different set of moves essential for collecting all 
 150 stars in the game-30 more stars than the original game. Wireless play-You can now battle up 
 to 3 friends in the wireless v. s. mode as you run, jump and punch each other on a pursuit of stars. 
 & also try your hand (or stylus!) at tons of new touch sensitive mini-games. Now we got that part 
 clear lets get to the review! 
   STORY:- "please come to the castle. ive baked a cake for you" At the invitation of princess peach, Mario 
 accopanied by party crashers Luigi and Wario enter the Mushroom Castle. But when the three dont 
 come out of the castle a long time yoshi decides to check upon them. Upon entering the castle, 
 yoshi discovers that no one is there. According to Toad, Browser has stolen the power stars guarding 
 the castle & locked Princess Peach into the walls and painting. Maybe Mario and his friends have 
 been captured in the paintings too! Now its up to Yoshi to rescue Princess Peach. Mario, Luigi,& 
 Wario from the castle's paintings and walls!
   CONCEPT:- Well to start off, SM64DS is a good game. Its so good i wont even call it a port. With 
 the additional features in it you cant possibly go wrong-wireless play with 3 other friends, the 
 ability to play with other characters is good. There are easter eggs involved 2!!!!
   GRAPHICS:-These graphics are wonderful! They surpass the Nintendo 64's and make Mario & Browser 
 & every other object in the game look nice. The bad news is there is no texture filter in the Nintendo 
 DS's hardware system so they cannot be detailed like in the original.
   MUSIC:-Same ol Mario music as usual-bright, and never repetitive. These sounds are pretty nice 
 to listen to with the DS's 16 channel sorround sound speakers!
   PLAYABILITY:- The playability in this game is awsome but not the best. It has various control 
 play options so its not that bad. But how did Nintendo expect us to play 3D games with no anolog 
 stick? Sony managed to pull it off and so can they. Although the DS has touch screen anolog control-its 
 not quite the same.
   Entertainment:- 1 word: excellent!
   REPLAY VALUE:- High
  
   Overall:-
  Style:1 or 4 players competing (up to 4 players VIA wireless link or LAN)
  Publisher: Nintendo
 
  Developer: Nintendo
  Release: November 21,2004
  ESRB: Everyone
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: thetravman
Rating: 9.9
Date: May 13, 2005 10:03 pm PT
Review:  This game was first on my list for the Ds' launch, because it was a great game on the N64 version, 
 how can it be any worse with extras included. There is now four-player brawls of collecting most 
 stars, which can be enjoyable, new levels, new characters, improved moves (I'll explain this later) , 
 More collectable stars, improved graphics, and finally, MINIGAMES. 
  
  Characters: Every character has its positive exclusive capabilities
  Mario, with his wall jump 
 abilities, high jumping, and quick speeds., flying capability, and balloon glide
  
  Luigi- with his greater jumping skills, invisiblitiy cloak, and his air gliding tactics
  
  
 Yoshi-with his swallowing move, egg throwing, longer lasting air time, and flamethower attack
  
  Wario- with his super strengh to break almost anything, metal form, and his powerful throwing 
 move. (multiplayer only)
  
  
  
  All these characters has their doubts as well:
  
  Mario- flying move is availbable in very few stages, and balloon gliding may is useless at times
 
  
  Luigi- his invisible cloak may be tricky watch out for caged grounds, weak defenses, and weak punches.
 
  
  Yoshi- can't punch, no chance in fighting Bowser, carry only one egg at a time.
  
  Wario- slow running, slow swimming, low jumps
  
  
  What has been improved? The moves most 
 certainly. When u jump and then dive, u now stay in the air a little longer, while the other game, 
 when u take a dive, u head down to the ground right away, and fast, which was a bummer. When sliding 
 on the ground, u press A, and u can now jump off the wall by just jumping from a belly dive. Mario 
 can now jumb alot higher, and can do longer long jumps, and have more control of them. Controls 
 isn't bad at all. Without a analog stick doesnt ruin it at all. Man, i can go through the last 
 Bowser stage in 30 seconds. I found controls much easier when i mastered them.
  
  Now 150 stars are now hiding all over the large castle. New stages r included, and mushrooms can 
 be found in levels. You turn monster size and can tumble anything in ur way (too bad u cant use 
 it in front of Bowser though, then he would be squeeling) . But u can find a mushroom when fighting 
 the Goomba boss, it's possible, I found one, and became bigger than its furious form.
  
  Minigames are included in here, and man, i cant get enough of it. Most of them are so darn addictive 
 and fun, that u cant get enough of it. I even made it to 418 on the wanted minigame, and 37 on 
 the find yoshi game where 2 different colored yoshis are hiding in 2 out of 3 boxes.
  
  So overall, this has been a very enjoyable game. I would have given a perfect 10 if the music was 
 a little tensy better. All those people that gave up on this game because of controls, give it 
 a chance, and see all what this game has to offer. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DSfanatic24
Rating: 9
Date: May 8, 2005 7:06 pm PT
Review:  When Nintendo released there launch lineup many thought it was shallow and there was only one game 
 that really made the DS worth buying. That game was Mario 64DS an old school game that the critics 
 call one of the revolutionary games of our era. The DS version is no different than the N64 one 
 but it is improved and you will see how it got improved later in the review. 
  
  First off i will start with the characters and levels. They are all well done with many animations 
 for each and also more to choose from than the N64 version where you could only be Mario. The game 
 starts with Yoshi sleeping on the roof of the castle and then Mario, Wario and Luigi all jumping 
 out of pipes and then going into the castle. To start the game you are Yoshi and your job is to 
 unlock Mario who then you will be to unlock the others. Some levels make it neccesary to change 
 characters and many of the levels have you do this so you will play all characters equally. There 
 is also hats scattered all over the levels that allow one character to switch to another but if 
 you get hit by an enemy you will lose the hat. Many people had problems with control but I didn't 
 find a problem with it so i thought the characters were well done. The best part of this game the 
 levels in my opinion. They are look good and are better than the N64 version and they use the full 
 horsepower of the DS more than any other game out there at this moment. This part of the game is 
 what makes Mario 64DS stand out.
  
  There is also many other changes i will talk about now. First off the characters but i already 
 talked about that so i will skip that. Another big change was the addition of minigames which offer 
 a bit to the game but not a lot. They are a nice break from the game but they get old kindof quick 
 but like I said they give you something to collect. There are a few other very slight changes that 
 make this diiferent from the original also.
  
  A few of the feature of the DS were used but not as many as i would like to have seen. The touch 
 screen can be used during the adventure but most people will probably stick to the D pad. The only 
 thing the touch screen shows is a overhead map but it doesnt really take advantage of the screen. 
 The sound on the DS is availble in surround and it takes good advantage of this by some sounds 
 coming out the left or right speaker but not both. There is many sounds in this game and they all 
 sound like what they should.
  
  Not much can be said about the gameplay as it is pretty much the same as Super Mario 64 but it 
 is now handheld. Just in case you haven't played the original i will give you a rundown of the 
 gameplay. It is basically like any platformer out on the market with a Mario twist on things. You 
 will find yourself jumping, fighting and swimming your way through the levels. The gameplay is 
 very simple and you could easily pick it up and play even if you never palyed it before. The developers 
 did a good job making this like the original. There is also a multiplayer that can be played with 
 only one game pak. If you have4 buddies with DS this can be very fun but i would of liked there 
 to be more levels as you cna only have a choice between 4 levels. 
  
  This is your top pick if you are picking up a DS and it will keep you going for days. The pricetag 
 is decent and you get a lot of playtime out of it unlike some handheld games. A must for any DS 
 owner
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: shadowboy44
Rating: 8.7
Date: May 1, 2005 9:31 pm PT
Review:  Super Mario 64 DS. This is one of the games that sold the 64 and now it is the game that sold the 
 DS. This game has aged just fine and with thirty extra stars (150 of them now) and many minigames 
 it will keep you playing for a long time.
  
  The sound is solid as usual for a Nintendo game. They took no chances for the sound, it is just 
 the same as before. And with the new stereo speakers you don't even need headphones for great sound. 
 The sound is not quite, though, up to a legendary status.
  
  Again another thing done solidly (and the same) is the graphics. The graphics are just about equal 
 to the graphics of the 64s. The characters do look a little blocky though and because it is a handheld 
 the screen is small. 
  
  The gameplay is classic but falls short of the game it is copying. This is mostly because of the 
 clumsy touch screen controls or the limited d-pad controls that had to replace the analog controls 
 of the 64. This game though great will give you a headache at times because of the clumsy controls 
 causing deaths from falling. The game itself is put together perfectly with a good mix of action 
 and problem solving. The minigames are also addictively fun. Overall the game is great but not 
 (again) quite legendary because of the controls. But the game is still a must buy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Lukanot
Rating: 9.3
Date: Apr 28, 2005 6:51 pm PT
Review:  One of the best games of the 20th century was Super Mario 64. 3D graphics and large enviroments 
 brought Mario to life like never before. And just when I thought things couldn't get better, they 
 did. Super Mario 64 DS improves on the original and takes full advantage of the DS's capabilities.
 
  Technology has really come on in the last 10 years. Especially for gaming. One of the most popular 
 was Super Mario 64 which was released on the N64. The storyline was about a small podgy plumber 
 named Mario invited to the castle for some cake by Princess Toadstool. After arriving at the castle, 
 Mario finds it is eerily quiet. Mario soon discovers his evil enemy, Bowser has kidnapped the princess 
 and stolen all the power stars that belong in the castle. In Mario 64 there are 120 stars but in 
 this DS version there are 150. Its now up to you to go through all the worlds and paintings and 
 retreive the stars and rescue the princess. 
  Not only can you be Mario in the DS version, but also Yoshi, Luigi and Wario. You will start off 
 with Yoshi and will have to unlock the 3 other characters. Each character can perform there own 
 special, unique moves and abilities. You can do all the basic moves like backflip, long jump, triple 
 jump and all them. But now a new thing has been added to the game from the original. The power 
 flower. When Mario gets the power flower he blows up into a baloon and can float. Yoshi can breathe 
 fire, Luigi turns invivible and Wario turns into metal so it really adds alot to the gameplay. 
 Catching rabbits is a big thing in Mario 64 DS. When you catch a rabbit he will give you a key 
 and you will be able to unlock a mini game. In total there are 36 mini games to unlock. The mini 
 games are new to the DS version and are really good fun. When the original came out on the N64 
 the analougue control stick was revolutionary and a totally new thing. But the DS doesn't have 
 an analougue stick. It has a normal control pad. This control pad isn't really as precise and accurate 
 as it should be but it works. Still Mario 64 DS tries to make up for the dodgy and not very sensitive 
 control pad and allows you to use the touch screen. This is much more sensitive and feels more 
 like the analougue control stick of the original. But the touch screen is recomended for people 
 who are experienced to the game.
  Clean graphics look superb. Now you are playing on two small screens instead of a television the 
 visuals look much more smoother and crisp clear. However, some pixels are noticable but its nothing 
 too bad. 3D graphics on a portable gaming system are really good.
  Crystal clear sound quality makes you apperciate the DS's stereo speakers. It really is an improvement 
 on the GBA games for sound. All the catchy tunes and sound effectsfrom the original are all here.
 
  With over 150 stars to collect, 36 mini games and 4 charcters to choose from Super Mario 64 DS 
 is an instant classic and a masterpiece for the DS!
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: zaxxmom
Rating: 9.6
Date: Apr 28, 2005 2:30 am PT
Review:  Super Mario 64 DS is an update to the classic Super Mario 64. This version supplies the players 
 with new elements of gameplay with unlockables and new updated graphics.
  
  The gameplay is still the same as in the original 64 version, but adds new features. There are 
 now four characters in all and you must use each to accomplish various objectives throughout the 
 game. If you aren't the character needed, just seek out the hat of that character and put it on. 
 The game has been extended as well. There are now 150 power stars to be collected.
  
  The characters have gotten a much needed upgrade especially Bowser. They look as if they were taken 
 out of Mario Part 3.
  
  Controls could have been a little more precise. You are given a choice between touch screen and 
 controler pad, but neither one is precise. Sometimes the character will make a 180 degree half 
 circle instead of turning directly around. This can get in the way when you're in a tight area.
 
  
  The camera can pose a problem too if you are on a pole or balcony. Sometimes if you jump, the camera 
 will change positions on you at the last second and screw you over.
  
  There are unlockable minigames too. If you catch one of the many rabbits in the game, they will 
 give you a key that unlocks a minigame. There are minigames for each character, so keep your eyes 
 open.
  
  Super Mario 64 DS is a great update to a classic despite its flaws. Anyone who owns a DS should 
 buy this game. You won't regret it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DouglasBuffone
Rating: 8.6
Date: Apr 27, 2005 12:02 am PT
Review:  The release of the game Super Mario 64 DS opens up the next generation of Nintendo handheld gaming. 
 This game is basically the same game as Super Mario 64 which was released on the Nintendo 64 in 
 1996 as a launch title. Super Mario 64 was a revolutionary game because of it's threedimensional 
 graphics, which had never previously been seen in a Nintendo game. The game brought more to the 
 platform genre than any other game to date, and therefore was placed in stone in gaming history. 
 With the release of the Nintendo Dual Screen, players can now play this great games with updates 
 on a handheld system. The game has more stars to collect, more characters, and mini games that 
 take great advantage of the DS's touch capabilities. 
  
  Right off the bat, Mario is sent a letter from Peach telling her to come to the castle, however, 
 different from the N64 version, you will actually play as Yoshi who was sleeping on top of the 
 castle (he was actually there in the N64 version and Mario could find him if he found all 120 stars) . 
 Yoshi realizes that something is strange, and goes and tries to find Mario, Luigi, Peach and Wario. 
 All of the characters in this game control about the same way except they will have something different 
 about them. Yoshi can swallow enemies, Luigi can turn invisible and run through some walls, Wario 
 can break certain blocks, and Mario can use the flying cap to fly. 
  
  The original N64 game used the new analog stick to control the characters (which was also revolutionary) , 
 and the Mario 64 DS gives players multiple control setup options. A player can use the dpad, the 
 buttons, or the stylus for moving, and I suggest that you will fool around with them and find out 
 which one feels the best. However, overall, the controlls of the game are sub par because of the 
 dpad lack of precise movement that players had with a joystick. However, many of the control issues 
 are covered up because the game simply has amazing graphics. The frame rate is smooth and the game 
 does not really have any rough ages. 
  
  The gameplay in this game is quite good, however, the game can become really frustrating because 
 of some of the extremely difficult stars to get and find. If you played this game on the N64 you 
 are definitely at an advantage because many of the hiding spots are unbelievable difficult to find 
 if you are familiar with the castle. 
  
  However, I felt the big dissapointment with this game was the lack of use the touch screen got. 
 The extra screen basically shows points of interests such as stars and other objects, but doesn't 
 really serve any other purpose in the game. However, this map does make some elements of the game 
 a bit easier, such as finding red coins or stars. 
  
  The multiplayer for this game is very fun, however, and adds to the retail of the game. You may 
 play 3 friends using wireless gaming, and you only need to use one game card. However, the multiplayer 
 will soon become repitive and boring and will not really help the overall value of the game. The 
 lack of multiplayer games and levels to choose from does not help the score of the game. The minigames 
 are fun, and you will start out having 8 free minigames, however, throughout the adventure, you 
 will unlock additional minigames that use the touch screen in a new fun way. 
  
  Super Mario 64 Ds is a great game, however, it is really the same game as the original released 
 in 1996. The controls are not very good, however, the game is created so that fans of the series 
 will certainly enjoy playing this classic game on their handheld system. This game was the first 
 game released for the DS, and already it shows some of the capabitilies of the DS, however, it 
 will be fun to see where the DS takes games in the future. 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: steveroe29
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 26, 2005 3:19 pm PT
Review:  super mario 64 is a remake of super mario 64 back on the nintendo 64. I was a huge fan of the origanal. 
 It plays like its n64 counter part besides a few gameplay twists. For exampleyou don't start the 
 game as mario you start it as yoshi and as you play through the game you will unlock mario, Luigi 
 and wario and they all have diffrerent abilities. In the origanal there were these different color 
 swicth blocks that would give mario a special abilty in the ds version the power flower comes out 
 of the swicth block and different things happen to the chrecters, yoshi can blow fire for a short 
 while, wario turns metal, luigi turns invisble and mario turns into a balloon. The mini games and 
 the multi player are fun to and the graphics are improved and there are more stars and levels to 
 get and play through. What keeps this from being better than the origanal is the camara is not 
 auto anymore and the controls aren't as tight on the d pad than the anolog stick and you will fall 
 down ledges a lot but you should get used to it after a while. With thirty more stars to collect, 
 more levels and the adition of yoshi, luigi and wario as playable fans of the origanal will not 
 be dissapointed and neither with people new to the series. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: InsOmniaC777
Rating: 8.6
Date: Apr 22, 2005 10:42 pm PT
Review:  Simply put, this game is fun. After playing the old Super Mario 64, I thought I would know everything 
 about this game, but as soon as I played it, it was like I entered a different reality. But when 
 u first play the game, u play as Yoshi, though it may be a turn-off 4 most people, it wasn't 4 
 me. Having 30 extra stars 2 look 4 in this game, brings a whole new challenge to complete. Being 
 able 2 unlock 3 more characters, helps bring strategy 2 how 2 get each star. After looking at this, 
 I bacame amazed. And the mini-games u can unlock in this game, r very, VERY addictive, and fun. 
 Those were the pros, now the cons. I would have had more fun, if the camera wasn't hidden behind 
 a wall or something, making it harder 4 u 2 see. And the controls didn't bother me much, but it 
 may 4 others. But if u like Mario, and want 2 be put at a much harder difficulty, I recommend getting 
 this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sabre1212
Rating: 8.8
Date: Apr 19, 2005 2:22 pm PT
Review:  I have collected 103 stars, and I doubt I will ever collect all 150, but I really enjoyed the game. 
 The sound is great for a handheld, absolutely beatiful infact. Still, hearing yoshi's voice while 
 playing with mario's cap is a little strange. To start from the beginning, the story is that mario, 
 Wario, and Luigi were called to peach's castle. Yoshi, in the meantime, jumps down from the roof 
 and enters the castle himself. Once inside, you realize that Mario and company have been captured 
 by Bowser and its up to you to save them and castle. After rescuing Mario, you can then use him 
 on the main map. Likewise Luigi and Wario. Once on the overworld map you can catch these rabbit 
 looking things. Each rabbit has a key, which is used for unlocking new minigames. Most of the games 
 can be unlocked in a few minutes, but the last one requires you to collect all 150 stars. It is 
 a good game, plain and simple. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Samlacoup
Rating: 7.8
Date: Apr 18, 2005 1:58 am PT
Review:  First Nintendo release for the Nintendo DS, Super Mario 64 DS has the heavy task of providing players 
 with a strong game for the portable launch. Nintendo insisted it is more than a remake it is a 
 brand new game, but has that much of new features?
  
  The first time you start Mario on your DS is quite amazing, it's obvious that 3D on little screen 
 as its effect. But the first impression gone, you'll soon get used to it and see the portable capacity. 
 Technically the game is easely compare to the 64 version, although you might see that some elements 
 are missing if you look too far on the screen.
  
  In term of gameplay you have a few configuration possible. People wanting to take full advantage 
 of the DS feature will use the tomb-controller and will manage pretty well to move the red plomber 
 after some practice. But the discourage players will soon get back to the cross.
  
  Last but not least you start the game with Yoshi not Mario, Nintendo had the good idea of introducing 
 four charaters (including Luigi and Wario) to the game that you have to unlock thoughout the game. 
 Each of them has a special capacity that you'll need to use to get some of the stars, so it is 
 important to unlock and play with each of them.
  As well you'll meet rabbits all around the castle that you have to catch, they all give you a small 
 key that unlock a mini-game. Once again you'll need each character to unlock everything.
  
  Finally did the extra features keep us long enough to call it a brand new game? The answer is no, 
 unfortunatelly as interesting as it may Super Mario 64 DS as it name says it, is a remake. A good 
 remake though, that is going to please most of you. Extra stars (150 stars totally) and unlockable 
 mini-games (11 for each characters) will defenitly keep you a couple of hours eventhough you finished 
 the 64 version. On the other hand for those who never played the first version it's a must-have! 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Smackipop
Rating: 9.7
Date: Apr 17, 2005 6:40 pm PT
Review:  Nintendo. Known for classic franchises, remakes, and of course, Mario. I remember the first time 
 I played Mario 64... I rented a N64, and that game. Plugged it in, started playing, and then after 
 like half an hour, I entered the castle. It was just so much to just run around the castle grounds, 
 I was totally immersed.
  When I first heard about the GBA, i thought it was gonna be something that would bring handhelds 
 into the third dimension, so i instantly thought "Jesus Christ, what if they port over Mario 64..?", 
 and then I drooled.
  When i found out it was gonna be like a souped up SNES, I thought "Oh well, at least I will get 
 to play a remake of SMB 2", a game which I only had played once or twice in the past. I loved it, 
 but I wanted a portable SM64. That was the dream.
  Now, the DS has come, and with it? Well whattya know, SM64.. i can't describe with words how happy 
 I was when I found out about it.
  This game, this relic, is something EVERY DS owner shouldn't miss out on. The gameplay is still 
 there, the music (Peach's Slide for ever!) , the visuals.. but this isn't just a port. There's SO 
 much more to this game than "just" those 120 stars. This time, add another 30 stars to that 120, 
 add 3 new characters, add new levels, add multiplayer and last, but not least, add about 30+ minigames.
 
  Some of you might think that this game wouldn't work without an analog-stick, i thought so too. 
 When I first started playing, i was a little dissapointed. The controls felt stiff to begin with, 
 but after like an hour or so, it felt as natural as an analog. And to all of you people who complains 
 about the  what about GTA? I don't know about ANYone who runs 
 without holding (or tapping) the X button when playing that game, so that system felt just as natural 
 to me in SM64DS. The game also supports control with the touch-pad, but i think that setup will 
 work better for FPS, RTS and puzzle games (Metroid Prime: Hunters work like a DREAM) . 
  Tthe minigames in this title are just pure genious. You would have never thought drawing a line 
 that forms into a trampoline to make Mario jump through hoops would be much fun, but it is. In 
 fact, it's a blast.
  The sound and music in this game is just as magical as it was 8 years ago, and it's very cool to 
 hear the birds on the castle grounds chirping "behind you". Every sound effect comes out crisp 
 and clean through the speakers, and it's pleasantly loud too.
  The graphics in this game are just awesome. Character models look MUCH better know than they did 
 8 years ago, as Mario looks more like his Super Smash Bros. Melee model than the old, 64 model. 
 The coins this time are fully polygonal, rather than sprites, and even though the DS isn't capable 
 of texture-filtering, the levels and textures look more realistic, as with the colours. Keep in 
 mind though that this is a first-generation DS title, so expect developers to figure out a way 
 to make textures look even better. Hell, they even managed to pull off some 3D visuals with the 
 GBA, a system that wasn't meant to do it in the first place.
  i haven't had the chance to play around with the multiplayer yet, but the minigames, the 30 new 
 stars, the 4 characters, the new levels, the subtle little drawing-thingy at the title-screen, 
 all those things makes for one HELL of a package. Anyone who buys a DS better be smart enough to 
 pick up this game. i cant stress enough just how gobsmackingly happy I am Nintendo decided to port 
 this game to a portable format. You can now play the greatest game ever (EVER) made, on the crapper. 
 ON THE F'ING CRAPPER.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Genisk02
Rating: 8.7
Date: Apr 16, 2005 6:49 am PT
Review:  Super Mario 64 was released back in the day, it was by far my favorite game, ever. I remember waking 
 up in the morning, turning on my television and booting up the game. The thing is -- When this happened, 
 I never gave up. I probobly beat the game in less than a week if I remember correctly, that's not 
 such a big deal, I only beat it too many times to even count when I was already done. I couldn't 
 get enough, I had to keep on playing. Remember... Those graphics and that type of gameplay in the 
 1990's was superb, nobody had ever seen such a thing. And, from this day on, Super Mario 64 is 
 a great game, it most likely always will be in my opinion. I don't care how old it is, which console 
 it's on, how many people don't even touch it anymore and what-not, I'd still re-visit it anyday.
 
  
  As you can see, Super Mario 64 was one of the best games I had played, I thought nothing could 
 be more fun. Was I wrong, or was I right? Well, it's kind of a simple answer. It's always going 
 to be a great classic, but the DS version sure did give-in alot of interest for me. The DS was 
 launched in November, 2004 -- That's the day where I camped infront of EB Games just so I could run 
 in and pick up my DS, the thing was... Which game was I going to choose? Hah, it's kind of a joke 
 since not many games of my type were in, it's obvious that I had chosen Super Mario 64 DS. I thought 
 it was going to be a great pick, and I couldn't have been more correct.
  
  The game's graphics have been slightly tweaked, the colors have been changed to suit theReal 
 World ", the player models look more modern even though they're not exactly as nice and crisp as 
 Gamecube's Super Mario games, but there still great. I found the gameplay improved, there's some 
 cons that I wouldn't like to speak of since it's a disgrace -- No worries, I will anyways... I can't 
 beleive there's no analog, how's that for a start? It's not so great, is it? I'm using the small 
 D-Pad which makes my thumb sore when I give in an hour or so, but still, I continue playing it 
 anyways. It's not a waste just because the analog is gone, you'll eventually forget about the whole, 
 big problem and you'll be sucked into the game's great gameplay, expecially the new mini-games 
 added-in for the Touch Screen's popular show.
  
  If some of you didn't notice -- Luigi, Wario and Yoshi are now on the cover of the package, it seems 
 like Mario's got some backup this time! Yeah, the story was a bit tweaked but it's nothing so big. 
 You'll begin as Yoshi which is something you'll notice right away, even including the small cutscene 
 you'll see when you begin your new file. Mario, Luigi, Wario and Yoshi are all invited to the castle 
 for some cake, ( Man, it's always the cake, isn't it... It's evil, it must be ! ) the only problem 
 is, while Yoshi un-wisely takes a nap ontop of the castle to wait for Mario, Luigi and Wario to 
 come back from feasting, they seem to have disapeared.
  
  Basicly, you'll be needing to controll Yoshi for about a good couple of minutes or so at the begining 
 ( If your quick and so-so familiar from the old version, meaning you'd know all of the levels by 
 now even if they added in some new features) , but no worries, you'll end up beating up some new, 
 cool bosses like Goomboss. You beat em' up, you obtain the keys and you can unlock all of your 
 players again. They all have some neat abilities to, it's something that you should check-out for 
 yourself. I won't ruin the surprises, so don't expect to hear anything from me! There's now 150, 
 not 120 Power Stars that you'll be collecting. Including Luigi, Wario and Yoshi -- There's many more 
 hidden levels, courses or treasures and coins to snoop around for, it's more of a challenge, actually.
 
  
  Overall, even though the analog was removed, Super Mario 64 DS is a great choice for a DS game, 
 even though the launch has been missed by a long shot, I'd call it the best DS game out there at 
 the moment -- It's going to be for awhile, it's just one of those instant-classics, you know what 
 I mean? Expecially if you've played the original like moi, your going to love the DS version even 
 more. By the way, when you've tried-out all of the mini-games, I just know that some of them will 
 make you thristy for more, there's some that are highly addictive.
  
  Now that it's been said, there's nothing you should wait for, go and buy the game -- You'll be sorry 
 if you don't! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: belgiumwarior
Rating: 8.9
Date: Apr 12, 2005 6:43 pm PT
Review:  I whas walking in a store and my eye dropped (figurly that is) on Super Mario DS.
  I tought pfff, another silly remake, but what the heck, i haven't played the original so i bought 
 it aniway. 
  I still remember the moment i Started the game: Best graphics till now on the DS, 30 more stars 
 than the original and damn once u start playing u just can't quit till u found that 1 star.
  
  CHARACTERS
  
  When you begin the game you get to start with Yoshi, the loyal horse (???) 
 of Mario.
  You have to catch a rabbit and it will give you a key, once entered the castle it all begins.
 
  Bowser has (yep u guessed right) captured princess toadstool and u have to free here.
  But first a bit about the characters: U can unlock Luigi, Mario and Wario.
  Mario is the most 
 random character, he can do a bit of everything.
  Luigi is the bestest jumper but the worst fighter.
  Wario jumps like hell and is slow too, but 
 he kicks but (litteraly)
  Yoshi is the fastest one, he can eat enemy's and ley eggs to throw with.
  
  GAMEPLAY
  
 
  You have to collect stars to rescue the princess.
  Once you enter a level you just want to stay there until you found all 7 stars (plus a bonus one)
 
  So the replay is good, and so is the gameplay.
  
  MULTIPLAYER
  
  when going multiplayer somebody has to host and the others have to download the game, this takes 
 a minute or so. When going multiplayer u have to collect 5 stars.
  The one with the most stars after the countdown wins.
  When u kick someone he will drop a star 
 and (while wearing a hat) drop his hat and turn into yoshi. Yoshi can eat enemy's and spit them 
 back out ( works good bye dropping them of a cliff or so) Wario can grab an opponent, spins him 
 around and then lets go.
  
  MINI-GAMES 
  
  every character can unlock his own unique mini-games that u can play in the rec. (recreation) room.
 
  You can unlock mini-games by catching bunnies and they will give you a key.
  Every character has his bunnies located in an other area.
  The mini-games get ya going really 
 good.
  Mario has thinking games.
  Yoshi has thinking games and LOL-games
  Luigi are casino games
  Wario are pure fun games
  PS: if you catch 8 white rabbits u get a 
 star
  
  FINAL OPPINION
  
  the game is very good but i (it's something personally probably) can't play it with the stylus 
 that well. So i would say buy it if you haven't played the original one allready.
  If you haven't played the original one you should go for it, its a great experience that needs 
 a good mind. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GalacticBass
Rating: 7
Date: Apr 9, 2005 9:23 pm PT
Review:  Ya I was one of those guys to get a Nintendo DS the first day it came out. Of course we all know 
 that the DS didn't have a wide selection of games when it first came out, so the only game I got 
 was Super Mario 64 DS.
  
  Gameplay 9/10 
  
  Who can really say that this game has bad gameplay?? I mean it was already good enough on the N64. But 
 when Nintendo polished it for the DS, it just got brighter. This is by far the best attribute of 
 the game even though it can get a little rusty sometimes. The Stylus makes it a bit harder to control 
 once you start out, but you will eventually get the hang of it. My opinion would be to stay away 
 from the Thumb Pad for this game since it causes MANY mistakes during the game and causes frustration. If 
 you aren't new to this game and have played Super Mario 64 then I am telling you to be ready for 
 the most fastest adventure of your life. The game is easy compared to other Mario games and I had 
 no problem getting 150 in less than 3 weeks.
  
  Graphics 8/10
  
  Of course they aren't the best graphics out there but compared to the other handhelds graphics.... WHOA! The 
 graphics still please me to this day and don't hurt my eyes like the N64 version did. I thank Nintendo 
 for doing such a grat job at polishing the graphics.
  
  Sound 8/10
  
  The sound is very clear and has a unique option of Surround and Stereo. There is really nothing 
 more to say other than bravo Nintendo!
  
  Value 5/10
  
  Seriously this game is not worth paying $30 dollars for. You would be better off buying it on Ebay.... trust 
 me.
  
  Overall 7/10
  
  Although this game was drastically easy, I enjoyed every aspect of it. I recommend this game if 
 you HAVEN'T played it on the N64. However if you still want it, go ahead.... just remember that 
 it will be easier than you expected.
  
  ----GalacticBass
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Travis42890
Rating: 6.5
Date: Apr 6, 2005 7:03 pm PT
Review:  I got this game with my ds when I first purchased it, and this was the first game I played on my 
 DS, I liked it for about a week or two, but then when you beat the game, it isn't that fun any 
 more. The story is almost as the same as the N64 version of the game, the game-play isn't that 
 much better, but it is above average, and sound is pretty good, and the graphics are some of the 
 best i've seen on the ds, but if you really want to play this game, u can buy an N64 and the game 
 for a little more than 30 dollars at EB-Games or Game stop. This game honestly dosen't show me 
 anything new or innovative, but on the positive side, the mini games are really addicting! I think 
 i played the mini games more than ive played the actual game. Basically, I would personally recommend 
 not getting this game or the DS at all, i personally recommend a PSP. If you insist on getting 
 a DS though, i would get this game as it is the best game out for the DS right now. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: JimD73
Rating: 9.1
Date: Apr 1, 2005 4:07 am PT
Review:  It took me 7 years to get 120 stars in the original Super Mario 64, the third game I got for my 
 beloved N64 and easily one of my best. Seven years to get two elusive stars that I was seemingly 
 incapable of getting. After a while, I gave up. I picked up the controller a few weeks ago and 
 got the remaining two in a single day. This was exciting. I was happy as hell. Now comes along 
 the DS, and what better launch title to get than Super Mario 64 DS, the only one getting all positive 
 reviews. It was also the cheapest one, so I bought it, though I highly doubt I would have missed 
 it had it been the most expensive. So is this the port of the year?
  
  
  
  Game Design: 2.3/2.5: The game is essentially the same as the last one, so before I explain this 
 new one, I should explain the old. In the 1996 original, Mario was going to Princess Peachs castle 
 for some tea and crumpets, but when he got there, he found the princess was kidnapped by Koopa 
 King Bowser. So Mario set off into 15 different worlds to collect many Power Stars to reach Bowser 
 and save the Princess. To get to these mostly unique worlds, he had to jump into paintings (mostly) 
 and complete 6 different tasks plus collect 100 coins in each level for an extra star. The more 
 stars he had, the more doors he could open in the castle. Sounds simple? Well, it is. Now, in this 
 new one, you arent Mario. At least, not at first. You start out as Yoshi, that weird green dinosaur, 
 and wake up from sleeping on the castle (where he was found in the original) and wonder where Mario, 
 Luigi and Wario went after they all got summoned fortea and crumpets, I guess. Of course, you 
 will unlock the three of them and each will have different abilities. Mario is the all-purpose 
 main man. Yoshi is a pretty useless character who is only used sparingly due to his inability to 
 punch. Luigi is an excellent jumper who can turn invisible. Wario is very powerful and can use 
 the Metal Cap (now a Power Flower) . The use of all these characters is essential to find all 150 
 stars, with now 8 per level (including the 100 coin star) plus and additional 15 castle secret 
 stars and more than 5 new mini-levels. The main game is good, but if you beat the original, youll 
 whiz through it. I got 150 stars in nine days, down from seven years in the original. After that, 
 you may think replay stops, but because they anticipated this, they included a string of highly 
 addictive minigames that use the touch screen. Most of these games are very fun and you will probably 
 spend more time playing them than the actual game, just because the touch screen is a new toy to 
 try out. The main game itself has received enough of a face lift through the new controls, characters 
 and stars to remain interesting to the most seasoned veterans, and once it dies off, the minigames 
 take over and keep this baby rolling.
  
  
  
  Play Control: 1.5/2: The play control takes some getting used to. The thumb pad is ideal, but if 
 youre like me, you wont be any good at using it and are better off with the D-Pad. This does 
 make movement a little imprecise, but se la vie. Holding Y to run is annoying, but it eventually 
 feels right. The use of the other buttons feels at least somewhat like the original. It does show 
 its ugly head occasionally though, most notably in the Bowser fight, which have been made incredibly 
 tougher through the use of the touch screen. The minigames all operate well. The control will be 
 annoying at first, but keep at it and youll pick up quick enough. Its probably the best the system 
 could do.
  
  
  
  Graphics: 2/2: The second I turned it on and the big Mario face popped up, I realized these graphics 
 werent those of a port. This was greatly polished and looks better than the N64s version, which 
 just 8 years ago was amazing for a home console. There are a few ugly bits here and there, but 
 as it is a handheld, something with graphics as amazing as this cannot be faulted for some bits 
 here and there. The graphics updates are slim, but they definitely excel the original. If only 
 Nintendo has taken this type of initiative with the Classic NES Series.
  
  
  
  Sound: 1/1: Using the DS surround sound perfectly, this sounds just as good as the original did 
 on the TV. The old noises were kept, plus new ones for different enemies and characters. The minigame 
 music suits well and sets the mood for the game, whether frantic or slow paced.
  
  
  
  Satisfaction: 2.3/2.5: While old hands at this game will zoom through it, they will have a blast 
 doing it and still have fun with the minigames long after that.
  
  
  
  Total: 91%: While I recommend this more for those who did not experience the original, fans of 
 the first will still have lots of fun with this one, probably the best port ever made. The classic 
 original is easily the must-own launch title for the Nintendo DS.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: B-bad
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 31, 2005 4:44 pm PT
Review:  All the classic Mario 64 plus more, levels more Stars and more playable character. Some would just 
 call this a port of fthe N64 version but if you play it you'll see that there has been some notiable 
 improvement to the overall gameplay which give it a different feel. Firstly Things have been moved 
 around which make you get a different feel for the game. The addition of other playable characters 
 change the way you play the game making it fun to replay levels just to see how it plays with the 
 different characters. 
  
  Yes the DS is missing the analog stick and that a does change the way you play the game since you 
 have to use the Dpad or the touch screen so it does take some extra time to get a hang of the controls 
 but it does hurt the game too much.
  
  The mini game are fun and gives you you a nice extra and a chance to break in that touch screen. 
 It also fun to find the mini games with in the main game and there are different games for each 
 of the four characters.
  
  Mario 64DS is a high fun game that should be in every DS owner collection. It has all the look 
 and feel of the N64 game but gives you enuff extra to make getting the game worth a purchase. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TheKombatant2
Rating: 8.9
Date: Mar 29, 2005 4:44 pm PT
Review:  I loved the original Mario 64. It redefined the platforming genre by going into 3-d. Sure, it wasn't 
 the first 3-d platformer, but it was the best. The DS version is as good, if not better, than the 
 N64 version. The DS version has multiple characters to play as, as well as the addition of minigames. 
 Everyone keeps complaining about the controls, but I think they are just fine. I did think the 
 graphics could've been a wee bit better, but it didn't bother me that much. Also, this game includes 
 multiplayer! The multiplayer is very fun. If you own a DS, you owe it to yourself to pick this 
 one up. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sammmyboy
Rating: 9.3
Date: Nov 24, 2005 11:09 am PT
Review:  Super Mario 64 DS is, as you all know, a remake of the original Super Mario for the Nintendo 64, 
 a game released in 1996 that showed gamers that platformers can be much better in three dimensions. 
 Everyone knew from the start that this game mas a masterpiece. Graphics only the N64 could handle. 
 Super realistic sound. And so on.
  
  Now, Nintendo released its new portable gaming system, the DS. And since the DS can handle 3D games 
 better than its older cousin, the GBA, they decided to translate the N64 platformer to a portbale 
 DS version. And not without some changes...
  
  Not only extra courses, characters, tricks, etc. have made their way into Mario's world. The graphics 
 are extraordinary, the sound is much better, and the character's controls are much more precise.
 
  
  GRAPHICS: Superb! Super Mario 64 DS is a masterpiece when it comes to graphics. They're much better 
 than the N64's, and also the brightness, detail level and clarity have increased.
  
  GAMEPLAY: Much better. The characters don't slide anymore when they stop running, you'll never 
 fall off a ledge when you didn't want to, and so on.
  
  SOUND: The N64 wasn't able to play Surround sound, but the DS is. You can even choose between Stereo, 
 Surround, and Headphone. The sound is also, just like the graphics, much clearer and the noise 
 has decreased.
  
  Conclusion: Super Mario 64 only became better with its portable version. This game really shows 
 what the Nintendo DS can do, and this game is a quirky, cute, and extremely big platformer which 
 even older gamers will love to play. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: babality
Rating: 9.4
Date: Mar 28, 2005 8:57 am PT
Review:  Graphics: To be honest when i started the game for the first time i totaly disapointed. Hey what 
 are these graphics? They reminded me of first year of ps1. But when i played more the game i realised 
 that when you play the graphics are the same quality of N64. How can this be? The matter is that 
 the graphics are very good and they wont minimize the quality of the game.
  
  Sound: I couldn't believe that a handheld could bring such a very good sound to my ears. Oh hell 
 yeah believe it or not DS can play surround sound. Amazing. And this is only the first age of the 
 console.
  
  Gameplay: Like all the Mario games, gmeplay is a strong part of the game. It is unbelievable that 
 the creators brought this huge game to DS they made made it even bigger yes you listen well, plus 
 they put about 30 mini games in this tiny cartridge. To tell you the truth this is the best game 
 for DS so far. That means that besides this game and Wario touched there is no more very good games 
 for DS, but believe me these two games are enough to keep you busy until the real games start to 
 aproach our lucky hands. The controls of the game game are great. Even with the D-Pad the movement 
 is very smooth.
  
  Value: Simply: Every last buck and it lasts for ever... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: evilinla
Rating: 8.9
Date: Dec 7, 2005 9:34 pm PT
Review:  Quite a few years ago, if there was one game you were sure to find in every Nintendo 64-owning 
 home, Super Mario 64 was it. The first time anyone played it they automatically fell in love with 
 it. And it was 3-D!!! Fast-forward to 2004 and Nintendo has released the title for a handheld that 
 has two screens and one that is touch sensitive. It is obviously the same game, but it can hardly 
 be called a port. This is why this game is so great:
  
  Gameplay: This is the part of the game that suffered the most. Why Nintendo did not include some 
 kind of analog stick is beyond anyone. Sure, the touchscreen analog-type control is interesting, 
 but never the same as an analog stick. In fact, I found it really irritating because I kept running 
 out of room for my finger. I just could not get myself to play the adventure with the touchscreen. 
 The D-Pad, while much better than the touchscreen, still feels a tad stiff. It is not bad by any 
 means, I was actually surprised by the way the d-pad was able to control 3-D action, but I could 
 not help to think how much better the game would have been with an analog stick.
  
  Graphics: The graphics do their job just fine. The colors are vibrant, the action baby-butt-smooth 
 and the effects very well done. They definitely get their job done quite well.
  
  Sound: Now this is one thing that is amazing about the game. I honestly did not think that the 
 DS was capable of such good sound. Obviously when you use the earphones you get the best of the 
 experience, but even without them you can tell just how great the sound is. Outside the castle 
 you can hear the birds chirping, the bunnies hopping, and in the distance the sound of the waterfall. 
 It is amazingly well realized. 
  
  Extras: The minigames in the game are really what will bring you back to the game again and again. 
 You first begin with a few, but later you will be able to get new ones as you progress through 
 the game. Some, like Yoshi's "loves me, loves me not," are pathetic and abominable, but others 
 like "wanted" are a real treat. These are all controled via the touch screen, and, while it would 
 have been nice if they were to have had a multiplayer competition with these minigames, they really 
 add a lot to the overall package. The multiplayer addition is pretty dull, but it's nice that it 
 was there in the first place.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: killerjt
Rating: 9.4
Date: Mar 20, 2005 1:11 am PT
Review:  Super Mario 64 is the same game from the 64 that we all loved. It has been remade so that you can 
 take it with you. Unlike most games that are ported to the Game Boy or DS this one is loaded with 
 new stuff. Now you can play the game with Mario, Yoshi, Luigi and Mario. They have added 30 stars 
 to make it 150 (120 in the Super Mario 64) . With the touch screen there are mini games that you 
 can play. The mini games is somthing new to most of us as we have not used a touch screen for gaming 
 befor. If you have a friend that has a DS you can do download play and play some fun games. This 
 will work with 2 - 4 people. This is by far the best game on the DS. If you have a DS YOU MUST 
 GET THIS GAME! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Optusnet
Rating: 8.1
Date: Mar 20, 2005 12:34 am PT
Review:  Super Mario 64 DS is the best launch title for the Nintendo DS and a pretty good remake. If you 
 loved the original, you'll be hooked on this game. Finding the new surprises, challanges and methods 
 of play. 
  
  Graphics: Far surpass Nintendo 64 and are very suited for this game. They don't push the DS to 
 the graphical limit, but the nice textures and fine details in the environment count. The animations 
 is fluid and blends in with the atmosphere.
  
  Sound: Great tunes that are redone for this game that send you back to 1997. Whetther you go on 
 concrete grass or stone, you will hear the suited sounds when you're running across. There is a 
 lot of effort put into this and pays off. However, the sound effects is an issue. When you're Yoshi 
 and play the first levels, you might tire of the squeling dinosaur's voice. Whether you turn into 
 Mario, Luigi or Wario (by putting on the certain cap found in the courses) , you will still hear 
 the little runt's squels. It was a relief to hear Mario's "LET'S A-GO!" voice once I unlocked him. 
 The other problem are the enemy sound effects. When you are in Gomba territory, you will hear them 
 walking - all of them! It's even louder than the music at times. And when you hear them running, 
 it's even louder and faster and sounds almost ear-bleeding as you are forced to turn the sound 
 off and therefore, stop listening to your favorite Mario tune. The same goes for boos - you wil' 
 hear their cackle - for all of them. Thankgod you can turn off the sound. 
  
  Gameplay: A great re-make of the original with the same addictivness and fun from the original. 
 This is where the 64 verion shines and this is where this game shines. The added twist of finding 
 your pals, finding keys (to unlock mini-games) and exploring new areas will do nothing but good. 
 There are added stars in each level that are very welcome to the game. But the major flaw lurks 
 in gameplay - it's the controls. No matter which sort your choose, the controls are step below 
 N64 ones. It took me 10 minutes to get around the Giant Bomb-omb boss and grab him. For the first 
 time - I was frustrated at Mario 64. Awfully sloppy, yet overly sensitive controls are a big no-no 
 for this game and the camera only makes it worse. You have to constantly change the camera to get 
 around you or look up in first person. It's plain stupid and frustrating. I died 7 times in the 
 first Bowser level collecting the first 2 red coins. Because the sylus kept turning Mario the wrong 
 direction while I was in an arkward camera angle. However, you do get used to the controls but 
 the camera may come back to haunt you. But the core gameplay, attack moves and objectives are fun, 
 clear and great.
  
  If you can excuse the 3 major negatives in this game (which is a bit hard too) this game is just 
 plain fun. The multiplayer is limitless and the mini-games are a treat to kill time. If you didn't 
 play the original this will still appeal to you but I think it will appeal more to people who have 
 played the original. It's damn addictive and a great game altogether. If you're planning to get 
 a DS, don't buy one JUST for this game. Instead buy this ALONG with the other DS titles. MP: H and 
 Wario Ware are just a couple of other game titles that are also worth your collection. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: memasterofvg
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 19, 2005 2:05 pm PT
Review:  We all know Mario. We all know Nintendo. And we all know the two mix. So it was no surprise that 
 nintendo released a Mario launch game for the Nintendo DS. What surprised, and in some cases angered, 
 people was that it was a port of a ten year old Mario game, Super Mario 64. With over 3 dozen minigames, 
 4 selectable characters, 30 new stars, new levels, and a very addicting multiplayer makes it more 
 than just a port. It is, quite simply, the greatest platformer ever. It is the best DS game to 
 date.
  
  For those of you who don't know, Super Mario 64 was a lunch title for the Nintendo 64 console system 
 back in 1996. It revolutionized 3D platformers, and was considered by some Nintendo's greatest 
 achievement. But, the game itself wasn't the only innovative part of the game. The analog stick 
 made its first appearence on the DS. It was almost like the controller was designed alongside the 
 game.
  
  Now you're wondering, "Hey, the DS doesn't have an analog stick!"
  The game's most crucial flaw.
  
  This is a 3D game. How are you expected to move around in 
 a 3D world with a D-Pad? That's where the touch screen comes in.
  
  Let's get this straight - there is no replacement for an analog stick. But as good as the analog 
 stick might seem, there are things that come very, very close. The touch screen and the wrist strap. 
 It mimicks an analog stick wonderfully. You attach it and play. It takes time to get used to picking 
 up your finger and putting it somewhere else because you've gotten to the edge of the touch screen, 
 but after about 1.5 hours, it'll be like a reflex.
  
  The original SM64 was chock full of content. Imagine that, and a whole lot more. The game starts 
 off as the original: Peach's voice clip inviting Mario to her castle. Except this time, Luigi and 
 Wario crash the party. After they don't comeout for a while, Yoshi decides to investigate. Wait, 
 what? A Mario game played by Yoshi? Well, not exactly. You begin playing as Yoshi, but it's not 
 permanent.
  
  The thing is that the game has 4 different characters, each with his own pros and cons. Luigi and 
 Yoshi have high jumping powers, and Luigi has invisible powers when needed. Mario is average at 
 everything, but can fly when needed. And Wario is slow and clunky, but he is the strongest of the 
 three, and can turn into lead when needed. Yoshi can breath fire and eats everything.
  
  Each character takes time to unlock. After about 8 stars, you have the chance to unlock Mario by 
 going into his painting. In every character's painting, you must fight a boss to save the character. 
 But that isn't the main point of the game.
  
  The point of the game is to save Princess Peach by defeating the infamous Bowser. All of his boss 
 fights are really a lot of fun, and add variety to a game with variety leaking out of its edges.
 
  
  To unlock fights with Bowser, and ultimately save Princess Peach and beat the game, you must collect 
 a series of stars, the game's smallest unit of collection (the other being coins, of course) . In 
 the original SM64, there were 120 stars. This time around, there are 30 more, making 150. That's 
 a big number. To get these stars, you either find the castle secrets or by jumping in to a series 
 of different painting leading you to a different level. There are 15 courses this time, a larger 
 number than the Original's. The added ones are somewhat small, and provide little challenge. The 
 most interest surrounds the original levels, which are literally huge. Level's like the Rainbow 
 Cruise provide a whole lot of gameplay.
  
  You get stars by completing by beating certain tasks in the different courses and around the castle. 
 Some stars require a particular character, while others can be completed by all of the characters. 
 Some involve puzzles, and some involve pure platforming. Some involve defeating a boss, and some 
 involve winning a race. You can even receive stars by collecting 100 coins in each level, which 
 is called the coin star. It all adds up to 150, but you only need 80 to beat the game. That's roughly 
 half out the total. That's what adds a lot of replay value: the game continues even after you beat 
 it. So if you need to go back and get a specific star, you can easily go back.
  
  The game controls beautifully. With the exception of the touch screen movement, everything is perfect. 
 Your characters have basic attack, jump, and crouch commands. It also has a camera control and 
 zoom control, which is great, because the camera sometimes gets stuck on a wall or other object.
 
  
  There is also a multiplayer portion of the game. In this part, you compete with 2-4 players to 
 see who collects the most stars in 30 seconds. Since you're all on the same field, and there are 
 only five stars, you'll have to beat some stars out of your opponents. You all start out as different 
 Yoshis, and put on caps of the character to turn into him. There are 4 different arenas, all very 
 fun. It's a fun, but short, part of the game.
  
  But wait, there's more! I haven't explained a big part of the game yet: the minigames!
  
  You 
 start off with 8 minigames. These 8 mingames utilize the touch screen, and add so much value, it's 
 hard to comprehend. You'll compete for high scores endlessly, and some might get seriously addicting. 
 But wait, 8 isn't that much! Exactly. You must catch color coded rabbits in the game in order to 
 unlock new minigames. Each of the game's 4 characters has their own batch of rabbits to catch. 
 So, because of that, we end up with dozens of addicting minigames.
  
  I'd never though I'd say this, but this game looks better than its N64 counterpart. The character 
 models have a whole lot more polygons, and they really look much, much better. The game experiences 
 zero slowdown in framerate, and runs smoothly and beautifully. This game is very colorful, but 
 some of it looks dulled out just a bit.
  
  The sound score is wonderful. From the chriping of the birds, to the musical scores, this game 
 really utilizes the DS's stereo sound system. You'd be hard press to find a handheld game with 
 better sound.
  
  This game is, no doubt, a remarkable game. It is a wonderful game that oozes with content and polish. l 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bosal
Rating: 8.4
Date: Mar 17, 2005 2:28 am PT
Review:  I remember when Mario came out on the Nintendo 64 and being disappointed that I could never try 
 out the game. Well, it was worth the wait and the mini games are a cool touch (no pun intended) . 
 This game kept me entertained for a good chunk of a long-haul flight back from Korea. I particularly 
 liked the variety and pacing of the game My only complaint is that it takes too much time to get 
 some of the characters walking/running at full speed. I dont know if this sluggishness was part 
 of the original, as well. Anyway, this is definitely my favourite DS game to date. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dim2192
Rating: 9.1
Date: Mar 15, 2005 12:11 am PT
Review:  So far, this is my favorite DS game that is available. I love this game and think it is much better 
 then the one on N64. The gameplay is outstanding, there are only a few control problems. This game 
 is easy to pick up and play. A new addition to the series is the minigames, which are very fun 
 to play. My favorite minigame is where you use the touch screen to roll a snowball to make a snowman. 
 The graphics are incredible, I still can't believe this is a handheld game. Even though it is short, 
 this is a must buy for the DS. You wont regret buying this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: death919
Rating: 8
Date: Mar 14, 2005 4:13 am PT
Review:  Gameplay: This is a remake of the N64 classic, Super Mario 64. It's basically the same game, but 
 there are a few additions. There are 30 new stars to find, and alot of the old stars have been 
 modified and are now in different places, making it feel like a new game in an old world. The controls 
 are a bit sluggish at times, because you have to use the D-Pad instead of an analog stick, but 
 overall, I didn't find the controls to be too much of a problem. A cool new addition to this game 
 is that throughout the castle, you'll find rabbits, and if you catch them, you'll unlock minigames. 
 These minigames all use the DS's touch screen, and are a blast to play. There are 36 minigames 
 in all, and each one is fun and takes advantage of the touch screen.
  
  Graphics: I think that the graphics in this game are a little below those of the N64 version. The 
 graphics in this game look pixilated sometimes. But, the environments look alot better than the 
 N64 version. Also, there is never a drop in framerate.
  
  Sound: The sound is the exact same as the N64 version. The music is good, and really contributes 
 to the game. Also, there is some voice acting, and that sounds really good also. All of the sound 
 effects are really good as well.
  
  Value: This game has lots of things to do, and will keep you playing for a long time. The old Mario 
 64 had only 120 stars. This one has 150 stars, making it considerably longer than the original. 
 Although you can beat the game at 80 stars, you will really want to go back and get all of the 
 stars that you missed. Plus, I heard that something special happens when you get all 150 stars, 
 but I have yet to get that many yet. Also, this is the type of game that you'll want to re-beat. 
 I rarely replay my games, however, this game is an exception. Also, the minigame room really helps 
 add alot of value to this game, and will keep you entertained for many hours as well.
  
  Tilt: This is one of the best DS games that are currently available, and it's really good. Make 
 no mistake, this isn't a port. It's a remake. It's full of tons of new things, including new stars, 
 characters, and minigames. The sound is top quality, and the graphics are really good, especially 
 for a handheld. This is the type of game that will keep you playing for a long time. Overall, this 
 is a must have game for the DS. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: -Paradox-
Rating: 8.9
Date: Mar 13, 2005 7:00 pm PT
Review:  Well here we are again. Another Mario game. What makes this game so special? Well its got some 
 serious value and gameplay. Who knew that a Nintendo 64 would turn into a handheld 7 years after 
 its release?
  
  Super Mario 64 DS has a great share of gameplay. Its the complete game of Super Mario 64 for Nintendo 
 64, but with some new rings. At the beginning you start as Yoshi. This is new, because the Nintendo 
 64 version was all Mario. Yoshi begins his adventure in a search of Mario. You start off on The 
 Bomb level. As you browse through the level you will eventually run into the King Bomb. He then 
 throws his little bombs at you to try to damage you. Make sure the little bombs stay close to the 
 King Bomb and blow up near him. This will damage him and that is the way you defeat him. Next, 
 you pass on to The Chip Of Whomp's Block level. Where more dangers lurk ahead. Some of the controls 
 get difficult at times, because of the lack of a joystick as in the Nintendo 64 version.
  
  Well with this game being for a handheld and it having Nintendo 64 graphics. I would say that they 
 are impressive. The DS now has 3D graphics, while the GBA's were flat. The graphics in here are 
 impressive. Its very good graphics for a handheld game. Yoshi and the Gang look the exact same 
 from Super Mario 64.
  
  The Sound of Super Mario 64 DS is very well done. It never gets scratchy and is always clear. In 
 the different levels the sound varies. Some are louder then others. Some burst with sound while 
 others stay quiet. The overall sound is very good.
  
  Well its the Value that makes this game even better. It is the remake of Super Mario 64 so some 
 people who have played that can pass it right through. While others will have a great time trying 
 to solve puzzles and learn new techniques. Super Mario 64 DS has a lot of value wheather you have 
 played the old version or not.
  
  Overall this game is the most impressive on DS so far. This game would be recommended with the 
 DS. If you have a choice for your first DS game, this one will not dissapoint you. As good as it 
 is, it brings back memories. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: NDSfan1
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 12, 2005 4:38 pm PT
Review:  Almost ten years ago, the N-64 launched, and with, the best game ever made other than Legend Of 
 Zelda Ocarina Of Time. This game was Super Mario 64. It was considered by many to have no equal, 
 and it rose the ranks of gaming to god-like status. No one ever would have thought you could take 
 such an amazing game and make it better right? Well, I guess they were wrong, because now, Super 
 Mario 64 DS has made a perfect game even better.
  For the new DS system, Mario feels right at home. His character model is sharp with many polygons, 
 but he's not alone! He has brought 3 friends to share the havoc, Wario Luigi and Yoshi. And the 
 rest of the graphics are just as good.
  The sound is another great part of this game, it is crisp and of good quality. The constant yelps 
 and screams of the foursome never get old.
  The gameplay has to equal. It is perfect. With 150 stars, four characters, dozens of rabbits, glowing 
 rabbits, and amazing levels, this adventure will take you until the wee hours of the night.
  All in all, Super Mario 64 DS is an perfect remake of a perfect game! After all, Itsa Mea MARIO!!!!!!
 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: tardog_daman
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 12, 2005 4:01 am PT
Review:  Ah yes who could forget The original Super Mario 64? I certainly couldn't forget it. That game 
 revolutionised the way RPG and console games of the N64 and PSX gen thought. As we all grew on 
 that chubby little guy with his hat and crazy moustache, the game slowly became popular. Nintendo 
 then pumped out the DS, a fantastic gaming console. To go with a fantastic console, they'd needed 
 a fantastic game. Super Mario 64 was the fantastic game and it went hand in hand with the Nintendo 
 DS. Read on...
  
  Gameplay:
  Although there is the main storyline, as with the original, it is a lot different this time! How? 
 Three new characters! Yes that's right folks! THREE new characters! The characters are Yoshi, Luigi, 
 and Wario.
  
  As I tackeled my way through the familiar levels, many grins came to my face as I remembered many 
 parts of playing the game when I was younger. The all new mini games are quite gun but they do 
 get very boring very easy. If Nintendo had made these a bit better, the mini games would have been 
 a lot more fun.
  
  Sounds:
  Great. They added a whole new sound scheme for the three new characters and Peach and Mario have 
 been edited around slightly so Peach now sounds different as do some of Mario's sounds.
  
  Music:
  Some songs are VERY catchy. Some are very annoying. It's a mixed bag really. You'll either 
 love the tune or you'll hate it.
  
  Graphics:
  For a Handheld system, fan*******tastic. My jaw dropped when I saw the graphics engine for this 
 game. "Hey it looks exactly like the N64 version! Good on ya Ninty!" were the first words out of 
 my mouth when I started playing.
  
  Replay:
  Well the N64 version was long enough and when you were done, you could always erase your save and 
 start again. So basically the game ends when you want it to end.
  
  Rent or buy?
  Buy. This is one purchase you will not regret. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jefferson908
Rating: 9.2
Date: Mar 9, 2005 2:29 am PT
Review:  In 1996, Nintendo released Super Mario 64, the game that rewrote the book for the platforming genre, 
 and in many ways, console gaming in general. It's one of the greatest games of all time... and 
 now you can fit an updated version of that game into your hip pocket with the release of Super 
 Mario 64 DS. Though the game's controls will take some getting used to, the addition of some new 
 areas and new playable characters make the adventure feel fresh, and some inventive minigames give 
 you a pretty great reason to use the system's stylus.
  
  
  
  The game that created the modern platformer holds up pretty well in its transition to a handheld 
 platform.
  Nintendo has been rereleasing its Mario games for its handheld systems for years, most recently 
 via the Super Mario Advance series on the Game Boy Advance. Now that trend has carried over to 
 the DS. Super Mario 64 DS is, essentially, the same game that was released back in 1996, though 
 a few new twists and turns have been added. Though the game still opens with Peach inviting Mario 
 to her castle (where she subsequently is kidnapped) , you don't actually play as Mario right off 
 the bat. Mario now shows up for the party with Wario and Luigi in tow, and the three of them enter 
 the castle and promptly vanish. Yoshi, who has been sleeping on top of the castle (which is actually 
 where he was hidden in the original game) , wakes up, notices that everything seems just a little 
 too quiet, and sets off to find the missing characters.
  
  At this point, the game sets off as you'd expect if you've played the original, with Yoshi hopping 
 around, jumping into paintings, and collecting power stars. Yoshi controls almost identically to 
 Mario, though instead of Mario's three-hit combo attack, Yoshi can stick out his tongue and swallow 
 enemies whole, turning them into eggs that you can toss at other enemies. Eventually, you'll find 
 Mario, Luigi, and Wario, and you'll be able to switch between them whenever you like. Aside from 
 Yoshi's tongue attack, the characters control almost identically. Luigi and Yoshi can jump a bit 
 higher; Wario's punch is powerful enough to break bricks that the others can't dent; and Mario 
 is the only character that can triangle-jump off of walls.
  
  Also, the game's flower power-up has a different effect on each of the four characters, and this 
 sort of replaces the switch blocks from the original game, which gave Mario access to different 
 hats with different effects. When you collect a flower with Mario, he inflates like a balloon and 
 you can float around for a brief period of time; Yoshi gains the ability to breathe fire; Wario 
 turns into metal when he grabs the flower, making him invincible, but also giving him the occasionally 
 required ability to walk underwater on the floors of lakes and other bodies of water; and Luigi 
 turns invisible for a brief period, which also gives him the ability to walk through some obstacles. 
 Since some stars require specific power-ups, you'll occasionally have to swap in another character 
 to get the job done.
  
  The original Mario 64 relied heavily on the N64's analog joystick, so Mario 64 DS gives you a few 
 different control options that attempt to emulate the control in different ways. By default, the 
 game is configured to let you play without using the system's touch screen. The D pad is used for 
 movement, and the buttons are used for jumping, ducking, attacking, and running. While you can 
 also use the touch screen for running, the other two control modes are somewhat better suited for 
 use with the touch screen, letting you shuffle the buttons around a bit to give you more control 
 over your character. Although the three options do a decent job of letting you control your character, 
 none of them are quite as refined as the analog joystick that was used to control Mario back in 
 the original game.
  
  The D pad's digital nature makes moving with it rather imprecise. It attempts to make up for the 
 lack of refinement by being a little more momentum-based, but you'll still find yourself running 
 off of ledges more often than you'd like. Using the touch screen really isn't much better. You'll 
 have full analog control over your movement, but changing directions isn't as fluid as it should 
 be. The control issues aren't insurmountable, but it's a bummer that the game doesn't control as 
 well as the original. Super Mario 64 is a game that requires a lot of precision movements, and 
 it's unfortunate that none of the available control options are quite up to the task.
  
  Mario 64 DS puts on a great show from a graphical standpoint. This time around, the character models 
 have an increased poly count that makes them look much, much better than the eight-year-old N64 
 game after which it is modeled. You'll still run across an ugly texture or two, but the game runs 
 at a great, smooth frame rate and looks bright and colourful. The rough spots are also smoothed 
 out a bit by the fact that you're playing it on a small, sharp screen instead of a television. 
 The map on the lower screen is a little fuzzy in spots and isn't quite as easy to read as it should 
 be, but it works. The graphics used in the minigames are also quite strong.
  
  Super Mario 64 was an amazing game back when it was originally released. For the most part, the 
 game holds up pretty well, though there are a few head-scratchers that may have players wondering 
 how we ever got by back then. The camera in the game isn't so hot. While you have the option to 
 rotate the camera manually or center it behind your character, you still have to spend quite a 
 lot of time controlling it to make sure you're getting a proper view of the action. Also, some 
 of the stars you're trying to collect are devilishly difficult to find, to the point that unless 
 you remember the original game very well (or throw up your hands and read a FAQ from the original 
 game) , you'll have to run around levels like a maniac, hoping that you stumble upon the solution.
 
  
  One level in particular has you launch yourself out of a cannon at a specific, unmarked section 
 of a specific, unmarked wall, which will then break apart and reveal a star. The only clue you're 
 given is the objective's title, "blast away the wall." The section of wall is pretty small, so 
 even if you had the bright idea of getting in the cannon and firing yourself at the two or three 
 walls that are in direct view of the cannon, you still might not hit the right spot, and then you'll 
 just give up. This can make for some extremely frustrating moments if you still aren't familiar 
 with the original game.
  
  The DS's touch screen is used to display a top-down map of the current area. Points of interest, 
 like stars, are highlighted on the map. The map actually makes many of the game's stars much easier 
 to find, unlike the aforementioned goal with the cannon. If a star is out in the open, it will 
 appear on the map, making it pretty easy to grab. Each level also has eight red coins, which can 
 be collected for -- yes, that's right -- yet another star. Coins don't always show up on the map, 
 but if you track down a bob-omb buddy in each level, he'll let you see the coins on the map for 
 a brief period of time. Some of those objects are pretty difficult to find without the map, and 
 its inclusion does serve to make the game a bit easier.
  
  While the gameplay has its share of spots that haven't aged so well overall, and the control isn't 
 perfect, Super Mario 64 DS is still a lot of fun. It's a huge game with large, colourful environments, 
 and it pulls off some neat tricks and presents you with interesting and compelling puzzles. The 
 game also contains a handful of new areas to explore, though many of these smaller areas really 
 aren't all that interesting. The core game and the fights against Bowser are still the stars of 
 the show here.
  
  If you're near three other DS users, you can play a competitive four-player mode. This mode only 
 requires you to have one game card, taking advantage of the system's wireless game download feature 
 to transmit the necessary data to the other systems. Unfortunately, the multiplayer is a pretty 
 uneventful competition, where the goal is to be the player holding the most stars when time expires. 
 So you will battle against the other three players, getting them to drop stars and collecting them 
 for yourself whenever possible. There are only a few different multiplayer levels to choose from, 
 and by and large, this whole mode feels like an afterthought. It's a nice extra and a great chance 
 to check out the DS's wireless multiplayer, but it isn't something worth going back to again and 
 again. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: psp2k4
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 7, 2005 11:27 pm PT
Review:  I have always wanted a super Mario 64 game on a portable platform and my prayers were answered. 
 it is a great game it is not a waste of money. when you have four players it is even funner . the 
 graphics are awesome and it takes about it takes about 30 min to get the controls mastered and 
 the levels have great details in them. also if you want a game that you can play for hours and 
 hours like I did then this is the game that you are looking for. also you will defiantly enjoy 
 it like I did . this game is just as enjoy able as the Nintendo 64 version. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: beegir2002
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 4, 2005 12:29 am PT
Review:  I got this game for my birthday and it has a great repolay value. It gets challenging enough to 
 make you come back to get more and more. The levels have their own uniqe styles and things that 
 make each level a challenge. The puzzles are great about this game. With 30 seceret stars you will 
 have to find more and solve more puzzles. One downside of the game is the controls. With no analog, 
 the game is a bit annoying in tight corners. Though the controls are not quite so good. The game 
 is great. The multiplayer is one thing that weakens the game a little bit. With only four levels 
 to choose from and all with the same objective, the multiplayer gets a little repetative after 
 a while. It is one of those multiplayers that you can wip out anywhere to beat the anooying punk 
 on picto-chat. The graphics are noticable different because instead of on a big tv you are on a 
 small screen. You will notice some little glitches here and there such as the 151 star glitch that 
 i have heard so much about, but you never really take into notice them a whole lot. All in all 
 this game is a great platformer for anyone who wants a DS and needs to find a game to keep him 
 busy for a long time :) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MetriodDS123
Rating: 9.2
Date: Mar 3, 2005 2:10 am PT
Review:  Super Mario 64 DS is a really good game for the Nintendo DS. The game originally on N64 was one 
 of the best games of all time, but with the new remake i think its even better. The game has much 
 better graphics than the original. The graphics are much clearer and cleaner cut, and has beautiful 
 colors. The original game has 120 stars, this one has 150, they added some new stars and changed 
 some of the old ones, and they even added some new levels. If you have played the first one getting 
 used to the controls will take time, but after a day or 2 you'll get used to it and it will be 
 just fine. The sound is really nice because of the 2 speakers, but i have had some problems with 
 it, a few times the sound got distorted and would echo. But when the sound was working (99.5% of 
 the time) it was great. Anyone that owns a DS must get this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: joshaskins
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 1, 2005 4:21 am PT
Review:  Its a given that with every new console Nintendo releases there is going to be a Mario game. In 
 the case of the Nintendo DS, we have Super Mario 64 DS. Obviously, you get the same game that forever 
 changed the face of platform gaming on your new portable system. However, this is not a direct 
 port; far from it. Its the N64 game, but with many twists. Of course, they original was a fantastic 
 game that anyone with an N64 should have played. Little things such as multi-player and mini games 
 have been added in to make this a different game. So how does this DS version of a console game 
 fair up against the rest? Well, lets take a more in-depth look. 
  
  
  Graphics
  
  Super Mario 64 DS is essentially graphically equal to its N64 counterpart. However, there is a 
 higher polygon count within the models. In terms of comparison, this is not a game with the best 
 graphics that you may find on the other launch titles. However, thats not to say that it looks 
 ugly. In fact, its one of the more graphically pleasing of the games so far. This game lives within 
 a fully 3D world that you can explore. I might even go as far as saying that this very game may 
 have better graphics than the original. Due to the DS lack of any filtering, though, there are 
 occasions in which you may find some shaky textures on the walls. This is really only noticeable 
 when looking at brick walls and the like. Besides these few graphical errors, there is nothing 
 to really complain about.
  
  
  Like I said earlier, this game is not going to win any beauty contests, but it stands out well. 
 The areas that seem most graphically capable are the mini games. I have not found any graphical 
 flaws that seem to immediately jump out at you. The mini games are beautifully rendered and equally 
 compelling to play. Something else that surprised me was the detail in the maps that appear on 
 the touch screen. The colors and shadows used are brilliant and help the maps pop out into a 3D 
 figure. Moving to textures, the quality of each varies. Some are actually impressive and clear. 
 Others are pixilated and bring the view of certain areas to a halt. All these tiny details are 
 easier to stomach thanks to the small screen size of the system itself. There are no slowdowns 
 while playing as the game keeps a constant and high frame rate that is visually appealing. When 
 we compare this game towards its 1996 counterpart, I believe that it is safe to say that the DS 
 version is much more graphically detailed than the other. It actually surprised me how Nintendo 
 managed to pull of such detail while porting it over.
  
  Sound
  
  What Super Mario 64 DS lacks in graphical power is virtually iminished when you actually hear the 
 game itself. The DS is known as having stereo speakers onboard with surround capability. How do 
 you test such an ability? Well, you can play this game. Super Mario 64 DS takes full advantage 
 of the DS speakers and puts out the best sound you have ever heard in a handheld. Even while listening 
 to the game wearing headphones, you can still hear sounds coming from any direction. You can tell 
 that Nintendo spent a good amount of time orking on the sound division of Super Mario 64 DS. The 
 only thing that sort of bothers me is actually listening to some of the characters voices. There 
 are instances in which a character lets out a grunt or something similar and it sounds a bit muffled. 
 My guess is the voices were ported to the game at a lower bit rate. There really is no problem 
 with the sound at all because of the life it puts into the game. Such wonderful sound puts you 
 into the game with such a depth that is really indescribable. A good example of testing the sound 
 is the initial start up. You see the star moving around and the sound moves around as well from 
 speaker to speaker. Theres no doubt that the sound is definitely on of the best parts of the game.
 
  
  Gameplay
  
  Whats there to say about gameplay? This game holds out just as its console version did back in 
 the days of the N64. If the graphics and the sound were fantastic, the gameplay is too, right? 
 Well, yes and no. You will still find your favourite Super Mario gameplay within this game. This 
 is the game that changed the face of platformers in a good way. You are still the hero who must 
 save the princess as in the other games, but theres a twist. In the original Super Mario 64, you 
 began as Mario in front on Princess Peachs castle. However, this game puts a twist immediately 
 into the game as soon as you start. First, Mario pops out of his classic mode of transportation; 
 the pipe. Whats this? Two more pipes emerge from the ground. Who have they brought with them? 
 Why, its Wario and Luigi of course! Well, our heroes set off and the camera pans out to the top 
 of the castle. What could possibly be on top of the castle that is more important than Mario, Wario, 
 and Luigi? Its a sleeping Yoshi. After some quick dialogue we begin our adventure controlling 
 Yoshi. Our heroes have suddenly disappeared. From here you continue the adventure to collect some 
 stars. Of course, you can unlock all three moustachioed heroes after playing through the game a 
 bit and can interchange between them whenever needed. Each character has his own set of special 
 abilities that come in handy in different areas. Yoshi can take in enemies with his tongue and 
 turn them into eggs, and Mario can punch and kick other enemies. Wario has the powerful punch and 
 Luigi has the jump. Of course, there are many other features to each character that Ill leave 
 you to discover. The mini games also provide many good times for you to enjoy. You begin with 8 
 and as you progress through the story you find rabbits that will give up their keys that unlock 
 new mini games. What else is there? Multiplayer has been added to this game that will have you 
 and your friends competing against each other. The multiplayer isnt the most enjoyable thing in 
 the world, but it does take advantage of one of the DS unique features. You only need one game 
 cartridge to play with up to four players, which uses the DS wireless download to download game 
 data to its memory allowing you to play. All in all, Super Mario 64 features some breathtaking 
 gameplay that will keep you busy for a good while.
  
  
  
  With all the magnificent gameplay Super Mario 64 DS provides, there are a few weak spots. One such 
 weakness is the in-game camera. You have the option to move the camera around or centering it behind 
 your character, but it still becomes a hassle having to control the camera while simultaneously 
 controlling your character. Another issue that I had was the controls themselves. The original 
 Super Mario 64 relied on the analog stick. The DS version makes up for this by making use of the 
 touch screen. However, the controls will take some getting used to. You can use your thumb to move 
 your character around, but you may find that it tends to move to other areas of the screen, slowing 
 down the movement. The controls could have definitely used a little more work, and you will notice 
 it during your experience playing it. Other than that, the rest of the gameplay is really solid. 
 This game is definitely a keeper for your Nintendo DS. 
  
  
  Lifespan
  
  This is a game that was originally built for console gaming. As such, this game will require a 
 great deal of time to complete. This game will keep you at your DS for many, many hours on end. 
 Its not a game that is short and quick like many portable games these days. There's always something 
 to do while you have the game on hand. There are many mini games to unlock and those will almost 
 definitely keep you busy no matter how long you play. If that won't keep you busy, then you always 
 have multiplayer. Just find someone else (up to four people) and you are good to go. The game is 
 simply addictive in the fact that it's fun and simple- and that works. So no matter how long you 
 may have this game, iit's safe to say that it will keep you busy a long, long time. 
  
  
  
  Summary
  
  This is THE flagship title for the Nintendo DS. Nintendo ensured that this game 
 would make the most out of the DS features. It shows as well. The graphics are superb, even with 
 its minor flaws. The game is extremely impressive from a visual perspective. The sound is amazing 
 as well. It makes full use of the Nintendo DS stereo speakers and gives you a true appreciation 
 for the speakers, compared to the sounds that previous hand helds have offered. The gameplay offers 
 many hours of play time from the original. Extra features such as wireless multiplayer and touchscreen 
 oriented mini games. The game ensures that you wont put it away by offering much more than many 
 of the launch titles currently available. Story twists and bonus features keep the overall appeal 
 of the game high. The DS touch screen is fully utilized in this game which is a big plus for the 
 game. If not for a few flaws holding it back, this is a game that deserves a high rating. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: quiksilver022
Rating: 8.7
Date: Feb 28, 2005 11:08 pm PT
Review:  Super Mario 64, which was, as you probably already know, originally the mega success of a game 
 on the Nintendo 64, is now available in an equally attractive and likeable portable version on 
 the Nintendo DS. The graphics for Mario are beautiful. I could stare at this game for days and 
 be entertained! The camera controls, which tend to be a problem for most games, are seemingly flawless. 
 You almost always have a 360 degree view of around you, as well as the ability to look up and down. 
 Though the odd time, the camera will get caught on a wall, 98% of the time, the camera angles are 
 perfect. The one outstanding flaw of Super Mario is the controls. Most controls work fine, but 
 they can be surprisingly uncomfortable. I recommend using the touch screen control option. If you've 
 beat the N64 version, I'm sure you won't have any trouble passing this one in about a week, but 
 for the most part, it's just pure fun to explore different worlds, collect coins, beat baddies, 
 and collect stars! As of now (March 2005) , SM64 is undoubtedly THE best game for the DS, though 
 it will likely always remain THE game all DS owners must have! I highly recommend it (though you 
 probably already have it!) It is a great example of what all DS games should be like. The DS' future 
 is looking bright, but I'm sure SM64 will always remain at the top of the must-have games list. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: -TheDeadMan-
Rating: 9.1
Date: Feb 27, 2005 8:25 pm PT
Review:  Mario's back to the hand held buisness, bringing his friends with him on the Nintendo DS. Wario, 
 Luigi, and Yoshi join Mario as he hunts to find princess peach! But he has to go through the evil 
 bowser first. 3 times in fact. The only way Mario can accomplish this is with his friends. But 
 where did Mario, Luigi, and Wario go?
  
  At the start, you play as Yoshi, on a hunt to find your friends. You have to go through mazes, 
 like on the original Mario, but this time you have to find them. Once you find Mario you can finally 
 gain the stars and face the first bowser. Eventually, you will find Luigi, and Wario in the game.
 
  
  The game play in Super Mario 64 DS didn't really change from the N64 version. Its only difference 
 is you can play as Marios friends this time. Playing as different characters really improves it, 
 tough. Makes the gameplay more awesome.
  
  A fun new little thing is the mini games. In SM64 you had to catch bunnies fro something else, 
 but in SM64DS you have to catch them to gain more mini games. The mini games are fun and another 
 great feature to a great game
  
  I cant say the graphics have improved, but i can say they have gotten worse. You find the occasional 
 glitch were you can see the cannon through the ground. You also see the occasional cut through 
 in the characters. Im suprised to say that the bowser is really good graphics wise.
  
  The sound is same old same old. You hear PASTA! and funky Mario music. You cant have it any other 
 way. the music is relaxing, and fun when your palms are sweating. Overall i dont have any problems 
 with the sound, not at all. 
  
  Some other fun things you can do is find secret stars, and such. There really fun to find and i 
 love figuring out where they are at. Real stars are your real objectives, though. If you get all 
 150 you can finnaly get the last mini game. That really would encourage me to get all 150 stars.
 
  
  Super Mario 64 DS didn't improve on the original, but it didnt get worse. You can say it just added 
 a few more fun things to the DS and i can see why its the most anticipated game the DS had. 
  
  If you have a DS, then i encourage you to get Super Mario 64 DS, if you dont, then i encourage 
 you to get a DS, then Super Mario 64 DS. I can easily say that Super Mario 64 DS is the best game 
 DS ahs got to offer right now.
  
  If this review didnt get you to buy it, then one thing will. If you like the original then you 
 will like this one. The original is almost better but overall there the same.
  
  The bottem line to end this review is that you need to buy Super Mario 64 DS. Its one of the best 
 games you can buy for the DS and every owner of a DS should have one
  
  --TheDeadMan 
::::::

::::::
UserName: xdancexyayxnayx
Rating: 9.7
Date: Feb 27, 2005 4:13 pm PT
Review:  This is a good game and a lot more then a n64 port there`s more star`s/more player`s and the inclusion 
 of load`s of great mini games even if you have played the n64 version and liked it still play this. It 
 is not a short game it will have you playin for a week or two providing you don`t play game`s for 
 8 hour`s a day. It has great graphics and if the psp had`nt have come out they would have been the 
 best graphics on a portable game to date. The only problem with this game is that you only really 
 need the touch screen for the mini games to be honest. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kidneyboy
Rating: 9.4
Date: Feb 25, 2005 12:54 pm PT
Review:  Super Mario 64 DS is the best DS game on the market right now. You might say that it is lame because 
 in reality, it is a port of a 10-year-old Nintendo 64 game so why bother with it? Well, feeble 
 minded idiot, if you gave this game a chance, just one chance, you will see that this game is not 
 just some 10 year old remake of some old game and that it is truly worthy of being the best DS 
 game out right now.
  
  Graphics: 9/10
  
  Now lets just get one thing straight. The graphics are noticeably better than the N64 game so as 
 long as you are not completely blind you will see it and say, wow this is so much better, for starters, 
 Bowsers arms are now attached to his body and look over there the castle is so much nicer looking 
 and polished than before! The graphics are however not flawless because you can also see that some 
 of the objects that you may find throughout the game are to square where it should be rounded and 
 sometimes though, very infrequently, the graphics will glitch a little and you will go a tiny bit 
 through a wall or something but it does not really matter all that much. Everything looks like 
 it should look like and Mario and his counterparts are all very nice looking. Another nice thing 
 that they have improved on is the fact that the top screen, where the action is, is a lot less 
 cluttered because they took the number of stars and the amount of lives and put it on the bottom 
 screen so the top on is game only. This is very nice on a handheld because this way you are not 
 as cluttered and do not have to turn yourself to see something that your life bar would have been 
 covering.
  
  Story: 8/10
  
  Like you dont know. Well in case you dont it is the same as the original where Princess Peach 
 invites Mario for a cake (even though Luigi and Wario rudely show up) and they get taken away. 
 Yoshi, who is sleeping on top of the castle in the original game, comes down off the roof and is 
 informed by Lakitu (your camera man) that you need to rescue your friends because they went into 
 the castle a long time ago and he is concerned because they have not come out yet. Turns out that 
 Bowser just took them away and locked them up in paintings. So until you get at least 8 stars as 
 Yoshi, you are forced to play as him.
  
  Sound: 10/10
  
  Basically the same tunes from the original, which I love so much, but now it is in stereo because 
 the DS has two speakers and it also sounds really good if you use your headphones. The sound effects 
 are also right where they should be and were done really well with basically no error.
  
  New things added to the DS version: 10/10
  
  Everybody knows, but if you do not I will tell 
 you, that they added 30 stars to this game making a grand total of 150 stars. All of the stars 
 in the old game are back in this one except for the fact that a few of the old stars have been 
 changed so it is a little bit different from the one in the old game like the red coin star in 
 cool cool mountain can only be done as Yoshi. They also added brand new stars some of which are 
 in the same levels, they just were not there before in the old game and some are in completely 
 new levels that they made for the DS version. In addition to the new stars, there are also little 
 bunnies scattered around the castle and the grounds and if you catch them you will get a new mini-game. 
 The bunnies will never go away but once you catch them once if you catch them again nothing will 
 happen. The mini-games are incredibly fun and while some of them of copies of another, they are 
 all in all a very fun and welcome edition to the game. There is also a multiplayer in the game. 
 It is a single-card multiplayer, which means 4 people can play with each other but only one guy 
 needs the actual game. This is very, very useful when it comes to playing against people who do 
 not have this game even though I do not understand why someone would not have it. The multiplayer 
 is pretty average. All it is is you start out as a Yoshi and there are five stars littered around 
 the level and also one of every other characters hat. So you need to collect the stars and the 
 person with the most at the end wins. The hats make you turn into the respective character so that 
 way you can punch stars out of the other players.
  
  Gameplay: 10/10
  
  Wow, thats all I can say, wow. First of all the courses are some of the best courses collectively 
 in a game there is. They are all unique and different so if you are tired of the lava level no 
 problem, just go to the ice level. Bored with the ice level then go to the desert level. As you 
 can see the diversity and uniqueness in each level will never make you bored. The control scheme 
 works for me because there are 3 different schemes but I like standard. Some people complain that 
 the controls are really bad but I think they are fine and you just need to find the control scheme 
 that is right for you. The new characters have no real skills really; they just took Marios moves 
 from the old game and divided them up among them. So now only Wario can be metal, Luigi can be 
 invisible and Mario can still wall kick but no one else can. Collecting enough stars to beat the 
 game (80) is fairly simple, but getting all 150 will take real skill. I have 113 stars currently 
 and plan to get all 150.
  
  Buy, Rent, Give to a blind child
  
  You just need to buy this game. What with all the new things like mini-games and 30 more stars 
 there is nothing not to like. Besides, it is the best DS game out right now.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: LemmyKoopa
Rating: 8.8
Date: Feb 23, 2005 5:53 am PT
Review:  You want a summary? Too bad. I'm getting straight to the review.
  
  Gameplay: Mainly the same as the original, but it's still fun. You get to play as Mario, Luigi, 
 Yoshi, or Wario, and they all have their own moves, all of which are really cool. There's also 
 been some new stages added, and some mini-games, too. So, while the gameplay is basically the same 
 as the N64, the new stuff that they added to it makes it worth playing. The only complaint I have 
 is that the controls can be a bit annoying sometimes.
  
  Graphics: Basically the same as the N64. Although, the graphics can be a bit unclear from time 
 to time. But for the most part, they're good.
  
  Sound: Basically the same as the N64 version, but with some new added sounds, such as the voices 
 of the new playable characters they added. And the mini-games they added have some cool sounds, 
 too.
  
  Final word: If you enjoyed the original Super Mario 64, then you should definitely get this game. 
 It's mainly the same as the original, but the new stuff they added makes it worth it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hobophobic12
Rating: 9.2
Date: Feb 18, 2005 3:33 am PT
Review:  Super Mario 64 was an incredible experience in 1996, and it still is today. Mario 64 DS, is that 
 same game, but with tons of fun and highly addictive mini-games, 3 new characters, and more stars. 
 The game has still over the years not gotten old to me so the whole experience of the game is great. 
 It is very fun to play the game with the other characters and they all have there own attacks and 
 moves. The mini-games which you get from rabbits across the castle are very addictive and fun, 
 huge time-wasters. There are 30 new stars, but there arent many new levels which is dissapointing, 
 but getting all the stars is very difficult to do. The graphics are definately the best for the 
 DS so far. The controls arent a big problem, but they arent as good as the N64 version either. 
 The sound is very clear and nice. So if you are thinking about getting a DS, definately get this 
 game with it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tjoeb123
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 15, 2005 9:22 pm PT
Review:  Yes, it's just like the name (of this review) says. Those of you who have already played the N64 
 version will probably have an idea of what this game has. Unlike the N64 version, though, this 
 time there's 150 stars to get instead of 120. Also you get to eat rabbits. All the way until they 
 drop a key that unlocks a mini-game. Oh, and this time around, there are 3 other characters to 
 choose from instead of Mario. You have to complete the game's new courses to unlock them, and you'll 
 start with Yoshi. And you can mess their heads up on the title screen, but this time you can MAKE 
 shapes by drawing them. Overall, this is a great game on the DS. It should be the game of the year 
 for 2004 on DS. No, really. I hope it is.
  
  Now, I'm leaving it up to you to defeat Bowser once and for all and collect 150 stars along the 
 way. So, go. Peach can't save herself, you know. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: falconclan
Rating: 9.3
Date: Feb 13, 2005 9:48 pm PT
Review:  this is a great game for the nintendo ds. The story line and some levels have been tweeked and 
 some new levels were added. You start as yoshi and you figure out mario has been marionapped. you 
 go through out the castle jumping through the "pictures" which are level entrances. There are quite 
 a few levels so it should keep you hooked for at least 20 hours. these levels have multiple tasks 
 you do to unlock more levels. the tasks are at times simple and other times quite hard. the gameplay 
 is classic mario platform so if you like mario youll like this. The graphics are amazing to me. 
 4 years ago we were playing 2d games on our gba and now we have this:) it sounds pretty good. a 
 little bit better than the n64 versions. it really makes a difference if you have headphones. and 
 later in the game you might understand why. (ie: there are sounds coming from left and right and 
 you have to choose the door the the souns are coming from) . as a launch title for the nintendo 
 ds i also think it is the best game out right now! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Wood_Spirit
Rating: 8.4
Date: Feb 6, 2005 5:29 am PT
Review:  Super Mario 64 DS kicked off the launch of the DS, and for good reason. A full fledged 3D adventure 
 with mini-games, and more content. Who wouldn't like that?
  
  First of all, let me talk about all the new stuff added into this version of the game. There are 
 all the great mini-games, which provide tons of fun and competition with friends. I personally 
 love this new feature, but the games do get old after a while. Some of the games get repetitive, 
 and get boring fast. Oh well, still a great addition. The new characters are my favorite new aspect 
 in this game. With out them, it would be the same game over again with a few new touches. Playing 
 as Wario, Luigi, and Yoshi is a blast since they all have their own unique moves. Now, the new 
 levels and updated graphics... I didn't really see much difference, but I guess the characters do 
 look a bit better. Not a dramatic change.
  
  The graphics in general are actually quite nice, but you will occasionally come across a bad texture. 
 The character skins are great, and the levels look excellent. A lot of the time if you walk closely 
 enough into a skin, it will become see through, allowing you to see stuff that kind of spoils the 
 game, such as peeking through walls for rabbits. This happened to me a few times by accident, but 
 it really didn't bother me much.
  
  The controls are very annoying when coupled with the *occasionally* bad camera view. Using a directional 
 pad isn't as conveniant as using an analog stick, but oh well. My main complaint is that you have 
 to constantly adjust your camera view with your touch screen, and sometimes it won't actually allow 
 you to.
  
  The sound is pretty good. The tunes occasionally get me wistling or humming, but after 10 years 
 of the same music, it's just old. The sounds characters make when jumping and punching are actually 
 quite funny, and I liked them a lot.
  
  The levels are all built differently except for maybe the boss levels. The quests and journeys 
 you have to complete to get stars are all really rewarding, and most of them are unique except 
 for the traditional "8 red coin" quests which I like anyway.
  
  The multiplayer is great, but after a while, the maps get super boring, and loose their great feel. 
 I wish they took some of the bigger maps and used them, but nothing of the like. Oh well.
  
  Overall, I thought this game was just great. If anything, an excellent way to spend your time 
 on the run. If you have a Nintendo DS, I really can't see why you shouldn't own this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: killerbudgp1
Rating: 9.2
Date: Feb 5, 2005 7:57 am PT
Review:  Super Mario DS was the perfect launch title for the DS. It is fun just got around and collecting 
 stars. You will enjoy what it has to offer and it's great graphics.
  
  _
  Gameplay:
  
  As most of you Nintendo players know you go around Princess Peaches's castle collecting stars that 
 you can find in pantings. There are a varity of task you can do to earn them.
  You can play as Wario, Mario, Yoshi, and Luigi. You start out playing as Yoshi but you have to unlock 
 the other characters for them to be playable.
  You can go anywhere around the castle only if you have the keys to do so. You have to beat Bowser 
 to get the keys for the doors.
  There are also fun mini games that the original did not have. You can earn mini games by catching 
 rabbits.
  In Mario 64 DS, there is 30 more stars than the N64 version. 
  
  Sound:
  
  The sound is great. You can hear almost anything in the land that you are in.
  
  Controls:
 
  
  You can use the D-pad or the touch pad. It is easier to use the D-pad and hold X to run faster. Using 
 the stylus on the touchpad is also a great way you can run faster.
  Graphics:
  
  The graphics are a little better than the N64 Mario 64 game but nothing really has changed that 
 you will notice.
  
  _
  Mario DS is a great game you should enjoy from time to time. Basically it is the same game with 
 a face lift. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: -Fossil-
Rating: 6.6
Date: Feb 3, 2005 4:26 am PT
Review:  I bought the game thinking it would Wow me just like it did when i first got it. Well it did. I 
 had loads of fun with it up untill i got Wario, the last character to get. Since then i havent 
 touched it, havent even Tried to beat it.
  
  Graphics: 8/10
  
  It looks pretty damn sweet, nice game for a handheld. Its just like the N64 game, i was VERY pleased 
 with the overall look of this game.
  
  Gameplay: 8/10
  
  Very good, fun, simple, just the way it was back in the day.
  
  Sound: 7/10
  
  I always 
 hated the sound in the game. I never expected Mario to scream 'Woo Hoo!' whenever he jumped, and 
 he soundsl ike a fourteen year old girl no less. The music isnt bad, and all the sound IS crisp 
 and pretty nice. The sound effect are great, but i knock down this rating because i dont like the 
 little plumbers voice. If you dont have a prolem with it and it dosent annoy you, then this woudl 
 go from a 7 to an 8.
  
  Value: 5/10
  
  The game isnt the same. If your new to the game, then change this to an 8/10. The mini games are 
 the only thing keeping me playing.
  
  Overall, its a great game, but its just a port to me. Id love to see some ports like Star Fox 64 
 (*drools*) and Donkey Kong 64. Rayman DS is coming out as well. There are better games out there 
 then this, The Urbs, Rayman, Wario Ware: Touched. If you own those games, then go ahead and get 
 this. If youve never played this, well the i highly suggest you buy this. But if you played it 
 on the N64, dont waste your cash, look into other DS games. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: halofreak3487
Rating: 8.4
Date: Aug 19, 2006 8:19 pm PT
Review:  I really enjoyed this game on Nintendo 64, now i can play it on the go!
  
  Graphics: This game really looks like an N64 on the go, but... even better. No slow downs, and a 
 lot of detail.
  
  Sound: The sound, music, and voices are all what they are suppose to sound like, and relates to 
 the Nintendo 64 version.
  
  Gameplay: I did get bored of the game, half-way in of course, as everyone else would probably. 
 This game also adds the edition of mini-games, which really didn't keep my interest in to long, 
 but if your bored of the story you can always turn to the mini-games, i think their are well over 
 twenty some... plus mini-games in Super Mario 64 DS.
  
  All i can say is that this is the best DS game out there so far, and it probably still will be 
 even in the future, because a lot of the other games are pointless... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Zecks23
Rating: 8.3
Date: Feb 3, 2005 1:10 am PT
Review:  I got this game and started out a little dissapointed. Especially when i learned you started out 
 as Yoshi. I wanted Mario. This was disappointing to me but as i started playing i started forgetting 
 about my dissapointment towards the beginning of the game and just started having fun. I was addicted 
 just 30 minutes into gameplay and continued playing for about 2 1/2 hours. I forgot how much fun 
 this game was! There are all the mini games too. Simple but addicting mini games. Just Guiding Mario 
 down the pipes or classic old memory, no matter what you choose you'll love your mini game. They 
 are just so fun.
  I have praised this game so far but this game isnt just good. One word for you. Controls. In this 
 game it is so hard to get Mario to do what you want him to do. Even some simple jumps are hard. 
 And the camera angles. You are able to control them loosly on your own but i was still not happy 
 with my view sometimes. But other then that I loved this game. An old classic renewed. Definitly 
 buy it.
  
  Pros
  
  Good Graphics
  Good Mini Games
  A Classic renewed
  
  Cons
  
  Some bad camera angles
  Some bad controls
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: artman420
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 25, 2005 8:30 am PT
Review:  Ah, Super Mario 64: The nearly perfect game that first got me into 3D games, 8 years ago. Collecting 
 all the Stars, saving the Princess over and over, and jumping on the heads of innocent Goombas. 
 Pure gaming bliss... 
  
  At e3 2004, Super Mario 64 was shown as a playable demo on the new handheld system, the Nintendo 
 DS. It looked impressive from the graphics standpoint, but the game play was, lacking... in some 
 areas. Fast-forward to the launch of the DS, and Mario is a launch title. 
  The folks at Nintendo tweaked the graphics even more to make the game look up to quality with today's 
 "standards," a multiplayer mode to show off the new system's wireless features (it's fun, but I 
 won't be playing it often) , and a lot of little mini-games (Koopa Bowling is fun) . But did the 
 controls get fixed? Yes, and no. 
  
  The DS is without an analog stick, so getting used to playing the game on a D-pad was a bit cumbersome 
 for the first ten minutes, but afterwards it does its job to the best of its ability. For those 
 people who would complain though, Nintendo has also offered a "Touch Mode" control scheme using 
 the wrist strap nub included with the system. Many people I know say that this works the best, 
 but I personally think it is awful. You have to slide the nub back and forth on the screen, making 
 the actual character look like the traffic in Houston. (Stop and go, stop and go) This is especially 
 annoying in boss fights, where I suffered many cheap deaths. 
  But it is just a matter of personal preference, (Even though I hate it.) and you just have to choose 
 the one that is best for you. 
  
  The graphics of the game look roughly the same as the original, but some textures have been cleared 
 up to look more realistic and there is an overall higher polygon count, which means a greater amount 
 of detail. Not much else to say in this section. 
  
  The sound is good, and the virtual surround-sound does a good job of putting you "in the game," 
 but some of the voiceovers (mostly Princess Peach) sound compressed. It's nitpicky, and most people 
 won't care, but it was something that caught my attention. 
  
  With the new playable characters and extra Stars, the storyline has changed a little, but relatively 
 quickly flows back into that of the original game. You unlock Mario early on, and he is the main 
 character for most levels. It was fun and quirky, but still the same as eight years ago. 
  
  Conclusion: 
  
  Overall, the game is arguably the best of the launch games, and even with 
 its flaws is very enjoyable and is still one of the best platformers around. It may not be original, 
 but it does have the fun factor that people like. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: PaulMcCarthy3
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 24, 2005 8:46 pm PT
Review:  Mario 64 all over again.... Nintendo this game is a truly most have for Ds owners... even know i 
 beat it for N64 10 times i would still like to beat it another 4... awesome mini games and the multiplay 
 is pretty fun... but u should of lets us play mini game and who ever gets the high scores win u 
 know something like that (MAKE A MARIO PARTY FOR DS!!)
  GREAT GREAT GAME most have for any nintendo fans and others 
  
  THis game features some of 
 Nintendo greatest charcters like Mario, Wario, Yoshi and Lugia... And with all the mini games ... 
 U will keep on coming back to play it over and over 
  again!
  
  THis game has all the same levels from Mario 64 plus 50 more stars and alot of other kool stuff 
 like multiplayer.... it takes awhile to downlaod the game when play but its still really fun.... 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: henrymac
Rating: 8.7
Date: Jan 21, 2005 7:15 pm PT
Review:  Super Mario 64 DS is a handheld remake of the revolutionary 1996 platformer which some argue to 
 be the best platformer of all time. Its hard to believe that 9 years later that that is still 
 true, but it is. Mario 64 on the Nintendo 64 was responsible for the premise that todays platformers 
 are built on, and rightfully so.
  
  The changes made to Super Mario 64 DS are that you can now play as Yoshi, Luigi and Wario aswell 
 as Mario. 30 more stars are also featured that werent available in the original N64 game. These 
 changes dont really change the experience of this revolutionary platformer but then again thats 
 probably a good thing.
  
  One of the biggest problems that you will notice almost off the bat with Super Mario 64 DS is that 
 the controls arent nearly as good as those offered by the Nintendo 64 joypad but that thumb pad 
 that comes with the Nintendo DS makes up for the absence of a analog stick that made Mario 64 so 
 easy the control all those years ago, but dont let that discourage you from using the DSs D-pad 
 as the controls are by no means atrocious. 
  
  The graphics in Super Mario 64 DS are possibly the best to be seen on any handheld console to date. 
 It makes a slight improvement on the Nintendo 64 original by making the textures better and clearer. 
 
  
  The audio to the game is just a catchy as it was back in 1996, and will constantly have to humming 
 along to the tunes just like you did back in the day.
  
  With the inclusion of 30 news stars bringing the star total to 150 stars the game has incredible 
 lifespan and it will take you anywhere between 30-45 hours to find every single star. 
  
  For both those who played the original N64 game back in 1996 and newcomers Mario 64 DS is a heck 
 of a lot of fun and is the best game currently available on the Nintendo DS. So if youre looking 
 for a game with long lifespan or just a good old platformer, Super Mario 64 DS is for you.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Rezza7
Rating: 7.6
Date: Jan 19, 2005 8:12 pm PT
Review:  Super mario 64 DS is graphically very impressive. The gameplay feals just a little strange on the 
 DS though considering it was originally meant for the n64 controller. The sound is faboulus , the 
 classic mario tunes. Theres a couple new playable characters , yoshi , luigi and wario rather than 
 just mario and a bunch of minigames which are quite fun but other than that and a few extra stars 
 theres not too much a difference between smbds and smb64. In the DS's current state of games , this 
 is one you definetly should pick up , very much so if you havent played the 64 version. Although 
 old , it is quite good and it really shows some of the power the DS has. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ssvegeta114
Rating: 9.4
Date: Jan 19, 2005 3:52 am PT
Review:  The best Nintendo game ever is back and even better than ever. Many people thought this was just 
 gonna be a port of the N64 game of the same name, well we were all wrong. Nintendo threw in a slew 
 of mini games and three more characters to play as. Not to mention a few quirky new abilities.
 
  
  The graphics in this game are unbelievable. I couldn't believe that I was playing on a handheld. 
 And to think that this is on of the very first titles released. The only game that has visuals 
 that surpass this is Metroid Prime: Hunters.
  
  The surround sound is very well executed and even works with headphones when selected in the options. 
 The controls work quite well with the DS even though it lacks an analog control stick. The stylus 
 doesnt work so well as a replacement. I ended up using the stylus only for mini games. Your better 
 off using the D-pad.
  
  If you plan on buying a DS anytime soon, make sure to pick this one up as it is probably the best 
 game you can find as of right now. The Metroid demo is great but it only lasts so long, ya know? 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Gamer-peGa
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jan 18, 2005 9:32 pm PT
Review:  Super Mario 64 DS was the first game I bought for my DS like my of other DS gamers. When I first 
 fired it up I couldn't believe how I was playing a N64 game on a handheld. I imaged such things 
 back when the Game Boy Color first came out, and now it's really happening. Amazing. Anyhow, describing 
 this game is useless and a waste of your time because you most likely already know what Super Mario 
 64 is. The only difference you'll find in this port is the slew of mini-games and how Yoshi, Luigi, 
 and Wario are now playable characters in the single player. And to top it off, the game starts 
 with the player controlling Yoshi who is trying to find Mario and the others. While the adventure 
 is overall the same, you'll notice that one difference is the multi-colored bunnies that hopping 
 around. Catch 'em and more mini-games are unlocked; which is a nice bonus. There now is multiplayer 
 Wi-Fi compatibility for the game also. Wirelessly link up with three other players to collect the 
 stars on a range of four different maps. It does get really choatic, yet keeps the game fresh. 
 While I could go on and on about how great this port worked out, I'll just tell you that this is 
 one game no DS owner should go without. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: speed-sword
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 18, 2005 5:15 am PT
Review:  This game is just as good as the first and you know thats good. the sound is a little better and 
 not so choppy. the graphics are alot better and the modles are 5times better than before. the gameplay 
 is a little harded to controll with the lack of a joy stick and the touch screen is not a good 
 substitue and you will find yourself falling off alot of edges. the new mini-game room is very fun 
 allmost as fun as the game it's self. and the mini-games are so addictive you will find yourself 
 playing them for hours on end. and collecting rabits to get keys for the mini-games. each person 
 has there own rabits. and 30 new stars make the pot even sweeter.~~overall~~ the original was great 
 and this one is to. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Jak2k5
Rating: 8.7
Date: Jan 17, 2005 10:22 am PT
Review:  Super Mario 64 was one of the best games for the Nintendo 64, it is now remade with better visuals, 
 more characters, minigames and 20 more stars for the Nintendo DS. However since the Nintendo DS 
 doesnt have a analog stick I find it easier to fall off cliffs and die in the levels so the difficulty 
 is a little harder then the first one. However the graphics have improved, bowser actually looks 
 like the bowser on gamecube, mario looks a lot better facially. With 20 more stars it does add 
 some games and the mini games and extra characters make it diffrent from the original. All in the 
 end Super Mario 64 DS is a must buy if you own Nintendo DS. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: irishmobsta4eva
Rating: 7.8
Date: Jan 11, 2005 11:06 pm PT
Review:  On Christmas morning, when I first opened this game, I found myself pleasantly surprised with a 
 remake of the classic game Super Mario 64. Popping in this game, I saw the castle yet again, and 
 found myself entering the castle yet again as well. I soon realized that the d-pad was a little 
 bit harder to use, and it frustrates sometimes on platforming moments. You will get used to it, 
 though. Another thing I noticed was the graphics. They were considerably better than the first, 
 and found myself saying "wow" very often. This is the most beautiful handheld game to date. The 
 sound is good, but character voices are a little bit grainy. However, the game does become different 
 than the original by adding 30 more stars which are all really stupid and 4 extra characters. The 
 150 stars will have you playing for a long time, so this game gets credit for being addictive and 
 fun at the same time. But I feel that this game was rushed, for the new extra content seems hurried 
 and is frankly not fun (except for the touch-screen minigames, of course) . The switch stars, which 
 are stars you obtain by hitting a switch and then racing to a place to grab the star before the 
 ticking ends, are fun but the silver stars, which are stars you obtain by grabbing silver stars, 
 are stupid. These are merely red coins that you lose by getting hit. There is also maybe 4 new 
 mini-courses, and only 1 of them is fun. I must say that I enjoyed this game, but I feel that with 
 a little more effort, maybe 2 or 3 big courses and a more original idea than silver stars, this 
 game would have been even better than the original. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hidingwolf
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 11, 2005 8:39 pm PT
Review:  Super Mario 64. A game that amazed so many when first released way back has made a comeback, this 
 time on Nintendos latest handheld console, the DS. Launch games were unsurprisingly poor for this 
 console, but among the ones that stood out as great, playable games, this one stood out most. 
 
  Although it hasn't changed a great deal since its original incarnation, additions have been made 
 to make this version of Mario's 3D platformer a bit fresher. Innovations include new characters 
 (Luigi, Yoshi and even Wario make a playable appearance within the game) , unlockable mini games 
 (some that are insanely addictive) and new courses to run through. 
  So here is my personal reveiw of Super Mario 64DS, based on those five important categories: Gameplay 
 and Story, Graphics, Control, Sound and Personal Opinion.
  
  Gameplay and Story
  
  The core game of Super Mario 64 has changed very little from its N64 counterpart. The main game 
 requires you, playing as either Mario, Luigi, Yoshi or Wario, to bounce around a variety of colourful 
 and brilliantly laid out levels. When originally released, this was seen as the platformer than 
 set the standard for all other 3D platformers to follow, some of which fail to exceed even today. 
 The story has been edited the slightest bit, to encorprate the new characters available, but it 
 dosnt divert from the original plotline, which involves everyones favourite red plumber, Mario, 
 rescuing his lady friend Princess Peach from the evil clutches of Bowser and his minions. But as 
 a slight twist, you start the game off as Yoshi who has to find Mario who has been trapped within 
 one of the paintings. 
  The story suffices in being a good enough excuse for bouncing on top of Goombas heads, and it works 
 fine.
  Another aspect of this revamped edition of mario 64 is the ability to collect various minigames. 
 The minigames themselves have a broad variety, although they do tend to get repetive and only really 
 serve as a short filler, and are not a patch on the likes of WarioWare. But still, it is good to 
 see these extra features, and especially ones that utilise the touch screen so well.
  
  Graphics
  
  For a launch game on such an innovative console, I was very impressed with the 
 standard of graphics pulled off by Nintendo. Although everything is a bit brighter than it was 
 on the original N64 version, but things still look very good for a handheld game, especially when 
 you think how small the cartridges are! Minor little features, such as Luigi falling asleep if 
 you leave him standing there for too long raise a smile from time to time. 
  The landscapes the action takes place in are quite large, although are like nothing in comparison 
 to the vast landscapes found in almost every other platformer these days. But still, the levels 
 that are there are very well designed, and still impress even today. 
  Rarely will you notice such issues as pop up, although things can get a bit pixelated in certain 
 areas of the game (but this is only in cases where you are up very close to certain things) .
  The main fault with the graphics as such is the use of the camera. The camera can quite regularly 
 get blocked by a piece of invading level, and it can be frustrating to manually move the camera. 
 But in most places the camera does its job very well, and is only a problem on few occasions.
 
  
  Value
  
  I picked up my copy of Mario 64 at Lik-Sang for only 25, and I must say, I think this is wondeful 
 value for money. Not only do you get the benefits of Mario64 in the palm of your hand, additions 
 have been made to the game to make it seem like not just a cheap port. The minigames offer a quick 
 laugh, and multiplayer with your friends can be more fun than you expect. Altogether its a wortthy 
 package, that has enough to it to make it a sensible choice for all those that didnt get to play 
 this game first time round.
  
  Sound
  
  You'll remember on the N64 hearing some wondeful pieces of music from Mario 64. Well Im glad to 
 say that not one piece has been taken out, in fact more have been added. The virtual surround sound 
 capability of the DS is used brilliantly, and things sound even better with a pair of earphones 
 on.
  The only weakness to the sound is the distinct lack of voiceovers, which can be easily forgiven 
 as each character has their own unique grunts and shouts when performing actions. 
  
  Personal Opinion
  
  This game impressed me. I was pretty young when the N64 version came out, 
 and dont remember playing it much, but when I got hold of this I found it very enjoyable. The game 
 screams quality from every corner, and I'd rate this over some of the current console platformers 
 available. I was impressed by what Nintendo had done control wise, as I got used to it it grew 
 very comfortable to use and the sound still amazes me at some times even today. My only gripe with 
 the game is the multiplay. Although it is good, I felt it could have offered more than just four 
 courses to run around and collect stars in. But even this does raise a laugh from your mates when 
 playing.
  
  Overall, I think this was a wise game relelase for the DS. As a console fresh out on the market, 
 it needed something that little bit special to make people take notice, and I think this game has 
 done it. It is a fun game, that has no blood, swearing or violence, and it is actually enjoyable 
 to play. 
  
  (This is my first reveiw for GameSpot, so please inform me of things that you thought werwe good 
 or bad about it, and if you would like to, please click the trust reveiwer box to help me out. 
 Thanks!)
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: ken-e
Rating: 8.2
Date: Jan 11, 2005 12:39 am PT
Review:  A classic from the Nintendo 64, Super Mario 64 DS offers gamers with new features that not only 
 build upon the main story but also includes an array of single and multiplayer mini games. With 
 any port, its all about how it translates to the new platform. We know that the story is good 
 and with the addition of more stars, levels, and ability to play with Luigi, Yoshi, and Wario, 
 it gives older players something more to look forward to. But is it fun to play it on the Nintendo 
 DS? 
  
  Successfully or not, Nintendo must and always have pushed the features of its hardware to the public 
 through its games. This being Nintendos first game for the DS, I will divert away from the typical 
 review format and instead focus on how well the DS works with Super Mario 64 by specifically looking 
 at the controls and the mini-games that use the DS features.
  
  Controls
  
  As any designer will tell you, the controls are one of the most important design components in 
 any game. Controls need to be responsive, intuitive, and all-encompassing to the users needs. 
 Super Mario 64 DS offers players with three different control schemes (Standard Mode, Touch Mode, 
 and Dual-Hand Mode) . The control modes differ slightly but they all feature the Touch Screen. No 
 matter which one you choose to use, it will take you an hour or so of solid playtime before you 
 get really familiar with them.
  
  Standard Mode
  
  Standard mode is the only configuration where players can use the Touch Screen (to be discussed 
 in the following section) and +Control Pad to move the character. Like the other buttons on the 
 Nintendo DS, the +Control Pad is digital, that is, it is either pressed or it isnt; on or off. 
 Because of this, controlling the character on the screen can be a little tricky. By pressing the 
 +Control Pad in any direction by itself, the character simply walks. With the Y Button pressed 
 as well, he dashes (i. e. runs) . There isnt a middle ground or smooth transition like on the original 
 N64 version with the analog stick where you can gradually increase the characters speed. 
  
  The layout for the buttons is good in Standard Mode. If you are using the +Control Pad to move, 
 the DS feels pretty balanced in your hands and you wont be straining to press the other buttons. 
 I also like how the jump button (B Button) is right below the dash button (Y button) so that with 
 a slight change in thumb position you are able to jump while running. 
  
  Touch Mode & Dual-Hand Mode
  
  With only the Touch Screen to move Mario and his friends, the 
 game performs adequately. Nintendo designed the Touch Screen controls so that the first spot the 
 user touches on the screen will act as a reference point. Users can reset the reference point by 
 lifting off of the Touch Screen and then touching it again. From that spot, there is a three tier 
 system whereby the further you move away from that reference point, the faster the character movement 
 is. Visually it looks like a bulls-eye with two rings around it. Peculiar though, by going beyond 
 the outmost rings, the reference point moves and follows the users movements. 
  
  Players will find that they will regain the analog movement that was lost when using the +Control 
 Pad but the movements still isnt as smooth and comfortable as with an analog stick. Unless your 
 hands are as big as Shaqs, you will find that you will only be able to cover half of the Touch 
 Screen comfortably when you use it with the thumb pad on the wrist strap. This is about 1.25 x 
 1.75 (3 cm x 4.5 cm) of space to use which isnt a lot. As a result of this, what happens is that 
 you will run out of space and hit one of the sides of Touch Screen. When this happens, you have 
 to lift up your thumb and reset your position. Careful not to go too far right cause you may not 
 be able to reach far enough to turn right. 
  
  Using the stylus on the Touch Screen is awkward. I wasnt sure if I should hold the DS in my hands 
 so that my pinky finger of my writing hand is supporting the DS with my other hand or if I should 
 just lay it down on the table to play. The picture in the manual suggests that you hold the DS 
 with only your non-writing hand. I dont know about you but I know I wouldnt be able to hold up 
 the DS and support the weight of my writing hand with my weaker hand for a long period of time. 
 With the stylus it is a bit better than using the thumb pad because of the extra reach you get 
 to use.
  
  The button layout in Touch Mode is okay. Contrary to what the manual says, the +Control Pad is 
 not enabled in this mode. I like how the two rotate camera buttons and the Jump and Action button 
 are together on the face buttons. My only beef with this layout is that it feels strange when pressing 
 the L Button to center the camera. With my thumb extended to reach the Touch Screen, my index finger 
 is also extended so when I press the L Button, Im pressing it with the middle of my finger instead 
 of the tip of my finger.
  
  The ambidextrous layout of Dual-Hand mode is my least favorite of the three. Jump and Crouch has 
 been changed to the X Button and B Button respectively. This makes sense since Jump is an up 
 function and Crouch is a down function. The reason why I dont like this layout is because I 
 find that it is really easy to hit the wrong button. I would have preferred if the Crouch button 
 was using the L and R Buttons as they are not being used at all in this layout.
  
  Cameras
  
  The camera is not normally part of the controls but it is quite apparent that this 
 functionality is needed. It is a shame that the cameras in Super Mario 64 DS hasnt changed at 
 all from the N64 version. Too often have I seen the camera be unable to rotate to the right position 
 automatically or manually. A screen full of wall clipping is also not unusual. This may have been 
 acceptable eight years ago when 3D environments were new but now its a big hindrance. 
  
  A Button
  
  The A button is a multifunction button that is used to talk to characters, read 
 signs, attack, and pick up and throw objects. Because it does so much, the game often has trouble 
 determining what the user wants to do. Majority of the time you can expect the character to perform 
 an action that is not what you wanted. For example, when trying to read a sign or talk to someone, 
 the character will throw a punch instead. 
  
  Multiplayer
  
  The multiplayer mode in Super Mario 64 DS is pretty basic. With up to four players, you can play 
 on a handful of maps where you battle to get the most stars and coins. The maps are quite small 
 and besides changing to different characters with the caps, dont expect much more depth-wise. 
 Each game has a time limit of a minute and thirty seconds so you gotta be quick to get those stars. 
 Unfortunately the games get repetitive really fast as I found myself bored after playing each map 
 only once. 
  
  Initializing the multiplayer game is simple and easy to do. Since you only need one card to play, 
 the clients that connect with you need to download the game to play. It takes about 30 seconds 
 which isnt too bad. Once connected, the host DS has full control. There are some options that 
 can be changed like the control modes but nothing that would affect gameplay. During gameplay I 
 didnt experience any lag or out of the ordinary desyncs. When the systems lose connection an overlay 
 will appear saying that the connection has failed and that the user will have to turn off and on 
 the DS. It would have been nice if the game could restore the connection and allow players to continue 
 playing.
  
  After playing around with the multiplayer mode for a while, I found a major issue when the client 
 DS is downloading the game. If the host DS plays in VS. mode in practice by him/herself, quits 
 VS. mode, and then starts a new VS. game with another DS, the game will fail to download. An error 
 message appears on both DS saying, DS Download Play Failed! Turn power OFF and ON to reset system. 
 Face your DS partner, move closer together, and try again.
  
  Mini-games
  
  If you like mini-games, Super Mario 64 DS is the game for you. You start out with eight mini-games 
 when you take the game fresh out of the package and into your DS. To unlock the other 28 mini-games, 
 you have to find and catch the special rabbits with the corresponding characters (i. e., Mario, 
 Luigi, Wario, and Yoshi) . Some of the games are similar to each other like Bounce and Trounce 
 and Bounce and Pounce but they are different enough to challenge you in different ways. I was 
 presently surprised at the array of games as there is a nice mix of puzzle and action type games. 
 There are a couple games like Bob-omb Squad that has a very old-school feel about them. In this 
 case, Bob-omb Squad is similar to Missile Command that was on the Atari.
  
  One of the main reasons why it is fun to play these mini-games is because they work so well with 
 the Touch Screen. Some games could be played with the +Control Pad but it would be impossible with 
 the majority. Unlike Spider-Man 2 DS, the Touch Screen response in Super Mario 64 DS is really 
 good. Single touch games like Wanted! has instantaneous response. Games that required the stylus 
 to be dragged on the Touch Screen responded well too but there is an ever so small delay. This 
 is most noticeable in Shell Smash when you use the stylus to move the bar to hit the shells. 
 However, in other mini-games like Trampoline Terror and Sort or Splode, the delay is unnoticeable.
 
  
  Suggestions and Closing Comments
  
  Overall Super Mario 64 DS is a good solid game. By building upon the strong foundation of the N64 
 classic, Nintendo was able to add more to the original storyline and include value-added game modes 
 that showcase many of the features on the Nintendo DS. In most cases this was done quite well. 
 However, there are two factors that I think should have been looked at further. 
  
  The first is touch control system in gameplay. I feel that the reference point when the user first 
 touches the screen should not move when the user moves beyond the three ring target area. By keeping 
 it stationary, I believe that the chances of the user hitting the edges of Touch Screen will be 
 lessened greatly. 
  
  The second thing that I think needed to be looked at more is the multiplayer mode. Here the mode 
 was too little and too basic. I may be asking too much seeing that this is small part of the game 
 but as I played the mini-games I thought, wouldnt it be cool if I can play head to head against 
 other people in these games instead of running around grabbing stars? 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: biggief991
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 7, 2005 12:14 pm PT
Review:  Super Mario 64 DS (2004.) A Nintendo DS rerelease of 1996's Super Mario 64, with new features. 
 
  
  Super Mario 64 was an amazing Nintendo 64 game - which wowed audiences all around the world when 
 it was launched with the Nintendo 64. Unfortunately for Nintendo, the 64-bit gaming system went 
 under faster than any system they had ever released before, and many of the classics were forgotten. 
 Until now. The Nintendo DS, Nintendo's new portable gaming system, is STRONGER than the 64-bit 
 system, and that old favorite is getting new life here. Read on for my review of Super Mario 64 
 DS. 
  
  PROS: 
  -THIS IS MORE THAN THE ORIGINAL N64 GAME. I was hesitant to buy this because I already own the 
 Nintendo 64 version. However, I bought it anyway, and I'm glad I did. There are all kinds of new 
 areas, and you can play as more characters than you could in the original game. There are also 
 new minigames and multiplayer modes. 
  -THE GAME LOSES VIRTUALLY NOTHING IN THE TRANSLATION TO THE NINTENDO DS. I was afraid that this 
 game would lose a lot when it was transferred to a portable system - I was stupid to have those 
 fears. Pretty much everything from the original game and then some is here. 
  -TONS OF LEVELS. The many levels were one of the things I loved about the original release of this 
 game, and they're all back. There are many new additions to them, and many new levels altogether! 
 This game is much more than the original was. 
  -CONSIDERABLY LESS GLITCHING THAN THE N64 VERSION. The N64 version was Nintendo's first venture 
 into full 3D gaming, and it was plagued with glitches. Not true here. The graphics here are a bit 
 more simplistic and to the point, and I like it like that. 
  
  CONS: 
  -THE CONTROL STYLE DOESN'T EXACTLY TRANSLATE RIGHT TO THE DS. The Nintendo 64 had analog control 
 - something the DS lacks unless you're willing to control Mario with the touch pad. Using all these 
 buttons in their configurations will feel weird at first. For instance, you must hold down a button 
 if you want to run. 
  -VETERANS OF THE N64 GAME WILL HAVE AN INSTANT ADVANTAGE. Not that this is a bad thing, but still, 
 if you already owned the game, you're going to be covering a lot of familiar territory. 
  
  OVERALL: 
  Overall this is a very good game, and I'm glad to see it get the long overdue revival 
 it deserves. If you're one of the fortunate few that shelled out the cash for a Nintendo DS, this 
 game is the obvious choice to buy with it. Mario rarely fails to please, and this is no exception. 
 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: ahmyspleen
Rating: 9.4
Date: Jan 4, 2005 6:16 pm PT
Review:  Wow is all I can really say. I am so crushing on Mario DS. First off, this isn't a port. It is 
 a remake! That means NEW CONTENT such as the ability to play as Yoshi, Luigi, and Wario, new levels, 
 new stars, and a few new challenges. The graphics look amazing, even better than the first. The 
 sound still remains amazing! But, the camera is flawed this time around. I often find the camera 
 stuck behind objects and walls, making it hard to play. My other complaint is that they made this 
 game easier this time around, which I guess they had to because the controls are flawed as well. 
 That said, this is the perfect game for a portable. You can start up, grab a star, then continue 
 on with whatever you were doing before. Each character has alot of variety, making them all seem 
 like a new experience. Also, I must say that the game looks much less pixaly. Characters are much 
 smoother now. And, with the addition of awesome minigames, this pakage is perfect! But, the Multiplayer 
 is severly lacking and I would have liked to see a Co-op mode. If you don't buy this game, you 
 obviously don't have a DS. Get it... now! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rileyman
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jan 3, 2005 2:28 am PT
Review:  Super Mario 64 DS is just as great as the original on N64, mabye even a little better. The addition 
 of Wario, Luigi, and Yoshi as playable characters adds a lot of fun to the game. The game now has 
 150 stars, 30 more than the original. The graphics are superb, though you will run across a few 
 blocky textures here and there. The sound is excellent, with a catchy soundtrack and realistic 
 effects. The gameplay is decent, though nothing can even come close to the smooth analog control 
 of the original, as using the touch-screen or the d-pad will have you running off of cliffs and 
 falling off ledges far more than you would like. The game lasts a long time with the 150 stars 
 to find, mini-games to play, 4 characters to use, and many rabbits to catch. I reccomend Super 
 Mario 64 for most people, though if you're a hard-core action or shooting gamer, you should play 
 before buying it, but for the rest of you, buy it now. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: AquaMantor
Rating: 6.8
Date: Dec 29, 2004 8:10 pm PT
Review:  Note: for my reviews, 5 is average
  
  The minigames give it some extra flair, but beyond that it really doesn't scream "BUY ME" Especially 
 if you've already owned a Nintendo 64. I think that Nintendo has gone too far now, having the game 
 that comes with it's system be a port. They need to relax and realize that the world does not revolve 
 around ports. It's pretty much the same as Mario 64. But it has a few more stars, three other characters 
 (this time mario's hat ability differs between characters) and a few more, small, levels. It really 
 isn't too special, and is more like a demonstration of the DS's features than anything else. But 
 thankfully, it is still worth playing because good gameplay doesn't die.
  
  The game, despite the hard to use controls, is unsurprisingly easy. Which is because it was meant 
 for people just getting associated with 3D gaming. The three other characters are not as fun to 
 use as mario, and in some cases, cheap. (I'm looking at you Luigi!) At some points you may wish 
 that you didn't have to "hunt" for them at all and just had access to them from the begginning. 
 The minigames are probably the best part.
  
  I have very little to say about this game because it is a port, but I would like to inform you 
 that it may be the best thing we have until better and original games actually COME OUT for DS. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GrimsonDS
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 29, 2004 12:50 am PT
Review:  This game is an absolutoly great game i havent played any other game like it that i can take around 
 with me and play you can take it anywhere when you think of it and its actually got better graphics 
 than the original how about that.
  The game is not only challenging but has its record buts so you can try beating your mates record 
 in multiplayer mini-games.
  Multiplayer is short lived but fun outside with 4 other people you dont know e. g when your on a 
 bus its suprising how many people even go on picto chat.
  Grab this game now if you have DS unless you dont like mario.
  But overall the gameplay in this 
 game is amazing it just grabs you and pulls you into this world where you have enemies that are 
 funny looking and scenery which is absolutoly amazing.
  Place this at the top of the DS list at this moment in time! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cycke_
Rating: 8.8
Date: Dec 28, 2004 10:48 pm PT
Review:  Super Mario 64 is one of the best games ever, and one of the first 3D platformers. It featured 
 a wide, explorable overworld and huge levels. And now its back on the nintendo ds. The N64 controller 
 featured an analog control stick, and the ds just has a d-pad. However, the transition is made 
 exeptionally well and features surprisingly solid contols. Granted, there are a few rough spots, 
 but very few they remain. As well as adding 30 more stars to the adventure catagory of the game, 
 Super Mario 64 ds features incredebly addictive minigames that make good use of the stylus. This 
 game also features up to 4 players in multyplayer using the wireless connectivity. Overall, if 
 you have a ds, this is a must buy.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: BanY
Rating: 8
Date: Dec 28, 2004 9:01 pm PT
Review:  Super Mario 46 DS is nothing more than a remake of the Nintendo 64 classic under the same name 
 with out the DS added. It has a few additions that make the game seem more like a directors cut 
 than a completely new take on other series. For one there are new characters such as Wario, Luigi, 
 and yes of course Yoshi, of whom you start out the adventure with this time around. There is also 
 a secret playable character in the game whose identity is not marked as the others are, but this 
 leads to the main premise of the game, which is to find as much as you can, including your superstar 
 friends.
  
  By being nothing more than Super Mario 64 with extra stuff, some may at first put off the game 
 as not being an innovaton. Even I myself think it is a sad attempt to show off the DS features 
 such as using the touch screen to maneuver your character, with not much showing in the innovation 
 department, as was promised buy Nintendo form the outset. But if you only go off of those things 
 you may be missing some of the real intentions of the game, which is simply to get you use to how 
 things may change in the future of this handheld. 
  
  For one the most addictive addition to the game itself is not in the core game, but in the Mini-games 
 and the multiplayer features that, add some replay value to an aging predecessor. The minigames 
 are found through out the main core of the game in which you have to chase down rabbits to obtain 
 the keys needed to unlok the minigames. The rabbits appear throughout the game and in many rooms 
 inside the castle. Some cannot be seen unless you have a specific character, in which the rabbits 
 color would be affected to let you know that the critter is indeed different. Though this is convenient, 
 it would have been nice if the rabbit disappeared after you caught him to clear up any confusion 
 about which ones you did or didnt catch. Even with that said, running after them can be loads 
 of fun.
  
  The miningames are variations on how you can use the touch screen to enable play, some of them 
 being more enjoyable than the others. One of my favorites involves Mario, a trampoline, and some 
 rings. The miningames provide a great way to relax if you find yourself frustrated form the core 
 game, and serves as the focal point of replayablity the game has to offer. Although it seems like 
 more or so a lesson to the developers serving as things that they can do with the system, rather 
 than a selling point for the consumers to by the game, it can be seen why Nintendo included them. 
 Had they had the multiplayer capabilities of the main game, they could have stood alone as a totally 
 new game all in themselves.
  
  Another thing the game offers is multiplayer wirelessly in which your friends or opponents who 
 has a DS but not the game could download it and play against you in set arenas. This feature is 
 convenient in only the fact that only one opponent has to own the game. It serves as a break away 
 feature but is not as addictive as the minigames themselves. Although it was not well thought out, 
 there is room for improvements, that maybe prevalent in games of this nature to come.
  
  Finally sound is well implemented in the game as you can hear every yelp, stomp, and musical score 
 perfectly through your speakers. I guess in order to get the surround sound effect you would need 
 a good set of headphones, but the volume level of the DS is just right, providing enough sound 
 for you, but not being to annoying when around others.
  
  Overall Super Mario 64 DS is a entertain game that may not be the staple of innovation that all 
 was looking to come out of the DS, but lays the ground work for developers to understand what they 
 could offer with the technology, while giving consumers an inkling of what improvements to expect 
 in future titles. I say its a worthy addition to you DS collection.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: -Bender-
Rating: 8.6
Date: Dec 27, 2004 5:15 am PT
Review:  Super Mario 64 was one of (if not the) most revolutionary games ever made. It inspired millions 
 of clones and basically created the 3D platforming genre. And now that the DS has arrived, a new 
 version of the game has been created entitled Super Mario 64 DS.
  
  This new version of Super Mario 64 is basically the same as the old. But there are a few key differences. 
 First, you start off as Yoshi and you must unlock the three other characters (Mario, Luigi, and 
 Wario) . Each character has there own special abilities (such as Yoshi's ability to jump much higher 
 than Mario) . This surprisingly adds a variety of gameplay and makes for a fun adventure. Also, 
 some of the levels have had things added. For example: On one level, the developers have added 
 some extra land spots so you will not fall off of the edge and die. This sometimes makes the game 
 much easier. Another difference is the addition of minigames. As you romp throughout the castle 
 you find bunnies. Once you catch these bunnies, you will recieve a key that unlocks new minigames. 
 These minigames are actually quite fun and add a lot to the game overall.
  
  The graphics in this game are incredible. Don't bother paying mind to the low-res screenshots on 
 the internet. You must see the game in action to see how truly great the graphics are. The small 
 screen gives them great resolution and clarity. The characters you play as have a much higher pixel 
 count than the N64 version. You will run into some low-res textures every once in a while, but 
 overall the graphics are superb. One thing I did notice about the graphics that was consistantly 
 bad was the map located on the bottom DS screen. These maps are always low-res and fuzzy. 
  
  The sound is one of the best qualities of Super Mario 64 DS. The DS truly shows its sound capabilites 
 by fleshing out great tunes that rival those of Super Mario 64. You will hear classic music playing 
 in the background as you platform your way through the Mario world. But one thing that was bad 
 about the sound was that a lot of the sounds were copied exactly from the original version. You 
 will often hear Mario mutter often too-familiar sound clips. Even the sound in the opening scene 
 features pretty bad sound from the characters. Otherwise, the sound is truly great .
  
  If you are still reading this review, you probably have 2 questions: 
  Q) What about the gameplay?
 
  A) Well, this is where the most flaw came. The controls are, too put plainly, bad. There are no 
 good control settings. You will often die multiple times because of the controls. The D-Pad is 
 horrible. It is way too hard to play a 3-D platformer. The touch screen controls are somewhat better, 
 but sometimes not responsize. Also, you cannot see your "important" map when you are using touch 
 screen controls. These controls take an extremely long time to get used to, and you will never 
 fully master them.
  
  Q) With such new abilities as Yoshi's jump and the new areas added to keep you alive, shouldn't 
 this game be much easier than the original?
  A) No, definately not. This game is hard, often harder than the original. The main reason for this 
 are the controls. It is incredibly difficult to do some of the easiest functions using the controls 
 provided. Maybe if Nintendo would release an Analog stick adapter (I believe there was one available 
 for the GBA years ago) , the game would be much easier.
  
  In the end, Super Mario 64 DS comes out as the definitive title for the DS at the moment. Even 
 though it has some flaws (especially in the gameplay) , the game still shines as a great title. 
 A definate buy for any DS owner. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: da_1_and_only
Rating: 8.6
Date: Dec 27, 2004 1:03 am PT
Review:  Well, Nintendo went in the right direction with this one. The latest Mario game doesnt fall short 
 of my expatations ( or anyone's for that matter.)
  The game has solid gameplay with a well written story. Also, you have a arsenal of unique moves 
 between Yoshi, Mario, Wario, and Luigi. Another amazing aspect of the game is the boss battles. 
 The touch screen plays a big part in this. IN some cases, youll need to run up behind a boss using 
 the directional pad, grab your opponets tail, and immedatly grab your stylus and make circles on 
 the touch screen to swing your opponet around in circles.
  The mini games are also addctive. However, you need to catch rabbits in the stroy to unlock these 
 mini games. Rabbits are everywhere; on the castle grounds, in the castle and, well, like i said 
 everywhere (eccept in the paintings.)
  The mini games vary. They have everything from shuffle board to keeping Mario in freefall. These 
 games are highly addicitive and you will spend hours tring to beat your highscore.
  There is little to say about the graphics only that your breath will be taken away. I mean common' 
 3D graphics on a handheld.
  The sound has to be one of the most impressive aspect of the game that can give any game a run 
 for its money. 
  Overall, you wont be dissapointed whe you buy (or rent) this game. It will keep you entertained 
 for HOURS!!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Me72
Rating: 9.8
Date: Dec 27, 2004 12:31 am PT
Review:  Well, I really don't know why, but when I got the N64 I just never picked this one up. But when 
 the DS came out this was the first game I got, and WOW! The gameplay is fun and lasting, I see 
 myself playing this game for a long, long time. 
  
  The graphics are better than the N64 version, which is saying alot considering that the whole DS 
 is about the size of the original cartridge. 
  
  The sound isn't mind blowing, but it sure gets the job done. Music is smooth and high quality, 
 making good use of the stereo speakers. And for a cool little extra, pause the game, turn up the 
 volume and close ur DS.
  
  The mulitplayer is so addictive, I've been playing like crazy with my bro, it's really fun.
  
 
  Well, this review is a little incoherent, but uh, ya, this game good is very play it much and happy 
 you be. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ChronicMike
Rating: 8.8
Date: Dec 26, 2004 4:17 am PT
Review:  From the day I heard about this game, to the day I bought it, I must say I'm impressed with how 
 the game is. I honestly never expected Nintendo to re-make Super Mario 64, instead I thought they 
 were gonna make a new Mario game. To me though, it doesn't matter one bit. As it is, this is easily 
 the best game you can get on the DS right now.
  
  Graphics are beautiful for a handheld and are top-notch. Don't expect everything to be like Gamecube 
 graphics or Xbox graphics. It's just the normal Nintendo 64 graphics, hand-held size. To be honest 
 with you though, the graphics do give me minor headache's at times.
  
  Sound. The sound in this game is perfect. Nothing more for me to say, but every tune in every stage 
 is suiting with the background and you will be honestly loving it every second. For you all you 
 Super Mario Sunshine fans, you'll be in for quite a suprise. -wink-
  
  This game is definately worth owning. From it's great single-player modes, to being able to play 
 it multiplayer, you'll love what Nintendo has done with this game. Honestly, you'll regret yourself 
 from not buying this game if you don't, because you'll be missing out.
  
  The tilt in this game is excellent, but not close to perfect just yet. If you're stuck in one spot 
 and have been trying over and over again, you'll be wanting to turn the game off and not want to 
 play it for awhile, which, in my opinion, get's very annoying. However though, you'll always want 
 to come back and play it, no matter what.
  
  In conclusion, this is a great game to play and I suggest it to all DS owners. You'll love it from 
 beginning to end and will not be disappointed one bit. One last thing that I forgot to add, the 
 controls aren't very good in the game. It takes time to get used to and will get you annoyed at 
 times. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Swartwood2006
Rating: 9.6
Date: Dec 24, 2004 10:24 pm PT
Review:  Super Mario 64 was one of the best games of all time. Some people doubted that a game from 8 years 
 ago would still be good, but it was. Instead of playing as only Mario, this time you also get to 
 play as Yoshi, Luigi and Wario. Mini games are also a new aspect of the game. As you wonder around 
 the castle, you will find rabbits. If you catch a new rabbit you get a new mini game. They are 
 good to play when you are sitting somewhere just killing time. Another new part of the game is 
 multiplayer. You run around 4 different locations and collect stars. It's not the best multiplayer 
 experience there is, but it's pretty cool. 30 new stars have been added to the adventure part of 
 the game too, so an expert at the original can't just blaze through it in a few hours and to add 
 more fun. Even if you have beaten Super Mario 64 more times than you can cound, you should still 
 pick up a copy of Super Mario 64 DS. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: THEWINDWAKER10
Rating: 9.2
Date: Dec 20, 2004 9:46 pm PT
Review:  At E3 2004, Nintendo announced a Super Mario 64X4 game to be released around the launch of the 
 DS. With the promise of 3 extra playable characters, and 30 extra stars, SM64DS seemed to be the 
 #1 title to pick up. Come Nov. 21, players picked up their copies, and were delighted to find out 
 that indeed, SM64DS was the game they were waiting for.
  
  With Nintendo's announcement that long-distance Wi-Fi would be delayed until early to mid 2005, 
 the appeal of SM64DS kinda got knocked down a few notches. Although the multiplayer can support 
 up to four people, it lacks what was hyped. Also, the multiplayer consists of a simple game of 
 "Get The Stars" in which there are only 5 stars on the map, and whoever hold the most at the end 
 of the 30 second time limit, wins. Pretty much, the multiplayer doesn't live up to what it could 
 have.
  
  But besides the multiplayer, SM64DS is a great single player game. Way back in 1996, SM64 redefined 
 the platform genre as we see it today. Millions of kids and adults alike were glued to their TV 
 screens, playing what is argued to be one of the greatest games of all time. Taking that great 
 gameplay and moving it to a portable hand-held system is really amazing. The game has only been 
 changed a little bit, but some things are noticeably different. Instead of eight stars per level, 
 there are only seven, some of which are new. This meaning that you don't get the whole SM64 package. 
 Sure, some of the fun objectives are still there, and you still have to look for the eight red 
 coins, but it just doesn't feel the same.
  
  One might say that new objective spice the game up, as players have most likely beaten the original 
 SM64, and probably know most of the levels by heart. This is true, but it just doesn't feel like 
 SM64. Although, SM64DS boasts 50 more stars than the original, which only adds to the length of 
 the game.
  
  SM64DS lasts around anywhere from 20-45 hours, depending on how you play it. If you want to play 
 the game 100% through, you'll be entertained for a while. But if you prefer the "beat the last 
 boss" beat it, then you'll get through it in a couple hours. There really is no replay to SM64DS, 
 you beat it once, you beat it. Sure, you can beat Bowser a million times, but the game really lacks 
 replay. It's a good value for $30, but will only have you gripped ONCE.
  
  The storyline of SM64DS is pretty much the same as the N64 version, and all other Mario games; 
 Peach is missing, and you must save her from Bowser. The game starts off with Peach inviting Mario, 
 Luigi, and Wario to the castle for a cake (and with Wario, that must be one big cake.) As the three 
 characters are walking in, the camera will swing over to Yoshi, in the same place you found him 
 in the N64 version. The camera then fades to black, and then fades back in. Lakitu tells you that 
 Mario and his friends have gone missing, and that you must find them. You must play as Yoshi for 
 the first part of the game, until you unlock Mario, then Luigi, and finally Wario.
  
  Switching between these characters is really easy, but requires some backtracking depending on 
 where you are in the castle. Each characters has his own special ability/trait that makes him special. 
 Certain levels require you to use certain characters because of these abilities. Along with the 
 special ablilites, each character has a different power that is activated by hitting a "?" block. 
 For example, Mario will blow up like a giant balloon, giving him the ability to float the areas 
 that are unaccesable normally.
  
  The graphics in SM64DS are great. The DS does a great job bringing 3D to the hand-held world, and 
 in some ways, the DS version looks better than the N64 version. Although, there are a few rebel 
 pixels here and there, SM64DS look great.
  
  Speaking of great, the sound has been kept the same. Although, the "Surround" option is somewhat 
 faulty, it all sounds great. For example, while grabbing coins at full blast, there will be a short 
 echo at the end of the money snatching, although minor, it does get annoying after a while. Also, 
 the surround option helps bring you into the game, and is used in several min-games.
  
  The mini-games in SM64DS are really fun, and really addictive. They're split into catagory by person, 
 and can be unlocked by catching colored rabbits throughout the game. This is the biggest and best 
 addition to the game, as there are a wide variety of games to play, and they never get old. Most 
 of the games incorperate the touch screen very well. In some games, you must draw a trampoline 
 for Mario to bounce on to get to the top of the sky-scraper. 
  
  Although, the quirkiest of the N64 options was replaced for a more personalized version. Yes, I 
 am talking about dragging Mario's face. Now, you may click on the face of either Mario of Yoshi, 
 and they will become a stretchable, twist-able drawing. You can also make your own little drawing, 
 and manipulate it however you like using the touch screen.
  
  SM64DS doesn't use the touch screen that often. The controls give you the option of using it to 
 move your character around, but this is a bad attempt at using a great tool. Either way, the controls 
 are flawed. 3D games, especially platformers, are meant to use a joy-stick. With the clunky D-Pad, 
 moving Mario around ledges can be hard, as moving in and direction besides Up, Down, Left and Right 
 can be hard. This can result in deaths that could of easily been avoided with a joystick, and much 
 frustration. This is the area where SM64DS shines like a dull penny.
  
  When you think about it, SM64DS is a great game, and a great launch title. Many people say history 
 repeats itself, and both the N64 and DS had SM64 as a launch title. The 64 version was great, and 
 you could say that the DS version is even better. With 30 more stars, 3 more characters, and over 
 25 mini-games, Super Mario 64 DS is a must have for anyone, any age. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Za23
Rating: 9.2
Date: Dec 14, 2004 1:45 am PT
Review:  If you're at least 10 years old, chances are you've played Super Mario 64 for the Nintendo 64. 
 The most recognizable title for the third Nintendo home console, this game was extremely popular 
 and known for it's great gameplay, many levels, and great graphics (at that time) . Now, for the 
 first time in 8 years, this game is back, and portable!
  
  
  Basics: In Super Mario 64 DS, you play as one of four characters, Mario, Yoshi, Luigi, or Wario, 
 trying to save Princess Toadstool (Peach) from Bowser. You play in the Mushroom Kingdom castle 
 and around it working to gain 150 stars to work up to save Peach. This is not a short game, so 
 don't be prepared for a quick rent-and-beat type game.
  
  What's Updated: Super Mario 64 DS is a ported version of the old game Super Mario 64, only it has 
 some differences. One of which is character control. You can play as Mario, Yoshi, Wario, or Luigi. 
 Each has different powers and stats contributed to each type of level. Certain stars can only be 
 gained with certain characters. Next, there are a few new star locations. No big deal, and no new 
 stars, but some of the stars were taken out and replaced by new stars. Also, there are new minigames 
 to be played, and some are very addictive. Lastly, taking advantage of the Nintendo DS's wireless 
 capabilities, there is a four-player battle mode where each person battles to gain the most stars.
 
  
  Storyline: Short and simple. Peach is kidnapped, save her from bad-breathed Bowser. Not too complex, 
 but interesting enough. Another part is that you start with Yoshi and must save Mario from the 
 grasp of the Goombaking. Somewhat plot-twisting, but it doesn't have a large impact on the storyline.
 
  
  Graphics: Because the Nintendo DS has only been out less than a week, we do not know the full capabilities 
 of the graphics. Compared to all the other games out, I'd have to say it's the best looking game 
 yet, but only 5-10 games have been released. They are equal to that of the Nintendo 64, which is 
 very impressive for a handheld game.
  
  Control: I have a very easy time controlling this game. I use the d-pad, and I think this game 
 handles very easily, but many others don't agree. In my opinion, the control is great.
  
  Fun: This game can keep you busy for a long time, and is great to pull out and play if you're bored. 
 Most of you have already beat it, so it's not very thrilling and exciting. For me, if I'm bored, 
 I'll use it as a game just to play for fun. I'm not planning on working to beat it anytime soon 
 because I already have beaten it. I like the idea of a Nintendo 64 game coming out on DS, because 
 it's fun having a game that you loved long ago become portable. Now, if only Crusin' USA came out 
 on DS...
  
  Use of Screens: The top screen has the action on it while the bottom screen is the map. The bottom 
 touch screen can be used to control the character.
  
  Difficulty: Some of the stars are easy to get, and some are very hard. This shouldn't be overly 
 challenging for most gamers, but for beginners to this game, it may be a little difficult.
  
  Closing: This is a timeless game, and to see it come portable is great. It's not a totally 
 new game with the additions, so if you didn't like the N64 version, you won't like this one, but 
 if you did like the N64 version long ago, it's always fun to revisit the sandy pyramid and race 
 the giant penguin down the cabin slide again.
  
  
  
  Storyline: 8
  Graphics: 10
  Control: 9
  Fun: 8
  Use of Screens: 9
  Difficulty: 8
  
  9.2 out of 10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: AzDbacks921
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 13, 2004 8:42 pm PT
Review:  I say Mario 64 ds is even beter than halo and halo 2. It is fun and its last longer than most games. 
 Also there are many changes from the n64 version to make it even longer. The Mini-games is the 
 part I like best cause once u beat it, u can always go back and play the mini-games. I give Mario 
 64 ds a 10/10. Graphics are also better than the n64 version, espcially bowser. Don't listen to 
 Gamespot's review of 8.4. Just look at the members review score of about 9.3 now. It should be 
 higher. The games may get a little used to since prob this is the first game u buy for the ds. 
 The ds gets some work to get used to it, but if u had any form of the Game Boy, it should be no 
 problem.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: stormmaster
Rating: 9.2
Date: Dec 12, 2004 4:19 pm PT
Review:  Wow, never thought they would re-make the best mario game ever created!!
  Super Mario 64 was the greatest N64 ever created, so what better to do then make it the best launch 
 title for the DS. In the game, well you know the story, so then your yoshi and you have to find 
 the others, about to the middle of the game you meet up with everyone else and you stop bowser, 
 the four playablr charaters make the game more fun (GO YOSHI!!!) Plus the graphics have been updated, 
 and the smooth frame-rate you love is here to stay.
  The sound is awsome too, From the music to the voices, when you close the DS mario will sat "Bye" 
 But the best thing about the game is the map and touch screen, its fun twirling bowser around! 
 So in the end this is a must have for the nintendo DS! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: E2ESQUARE
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 11, 2004 11:04 pm PT
Review:  Mario 64 is arguably the game the redefined videogames as we know them. It was the first 64 bit 
 polygon game that had full 3d environments. Call me crazy but without Mario 64, games might not 
 be the same today.
  
  Mario 64 DS is the best DS game yet and arguably the favorite. Its a great remake of its cousin 
 on the N64 and its easy to see the resemblance. The only big changes are the ability to do new 
 multiplayer matches with up to 4 DS consoles and the new characters added. These addidtions dont 
 add mutch gameplay, but lets face it, Mario 64 was good enough on its own, any additions of any 
 sort arent needed to make it a great game. The only downside to this game is the controls. Its 
 hard to play a 3d adventure platformer with a control pad instead of a stick. However, this wont 
 deture you from enjoying Mario 64 DS on the DS. Its the same classic platformer with the italian 
 plumber we all know and love with a fresh new 2 screen look and a multilpayer update. A winning 
 formula no matter how you slice it. If this is a sign of great DS games to come, I say bring it 
 on, and let this game be in the collection of every DS owner. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: princessd
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 10, 2004 3:03 am PT
Review:  This game is just plain fun. If you like Mario and the gang, or just platform jumpers in general, 
 this one's worth looking at, if not buying. That is, if you are lucky enough to have a Nintendo 
 DS in your clutches. Super Mario 64 DS is a portable version of the original classic that revolutionized 
 the platform jumping games everywhere.
  
  Mario's first DS adventure takes place, just like in Super Mario 64, at Peach's castle, after being 
 invited over for cake. But, this time he brought along two of his closest friends, Luigi and Wario.
 
  
  When you start the game, you get to be that lovable dinosaur. No, not Barney, Yoshi! Yoshi comes 
 down from the top of the castle, which is where he is in the original, and finds it quiet, too 
 quiet. He goes down to investigate, but finds a bunny who rewards him with a key to the castle. 
 From there, Yoshi goes on to enter portraits, trying to collect 8 stars. Once at the needed amount 
 of yellow shiny things, you get to enter a special room with Mario's face in the picture. Jump 
 into it and be transported to a special level where a giant Goomba challenges you to a fight. If 
 you beat him, you get a key to a door with a big red "M" above it. Yes, you know what that means, 
 you can now be the most famous plaumber in history! From there on, you find more and more stars 
 until you have enough to challenge the dreaded Bowser to a duel and rescue the lovely Princess 
 Peach!
  
  You've heard enough about the story, so why not read about the gameplay? The sound is a little 
 tinny. But, while playing the game, it's hard to hear any falts in the music. The graphics are 
 blocky, but that's only when you're staring hard and trying to speculate it for any problems. The 
 graphics are much cleaner and smoother than Super Mario 64, so it makes this game much easier to 
 appreciate. The control is a little on this new handheld version without the famed analog stick 
 of the N64. Hopefully, you'll be able to get along all right without with the help of the touch 
 screen (it rotates the camera) . Other than camera rotation and serving as a map, the bottom screen 
 has no other purposes in the main game.
  
  As well as the main game, there are several mini-games that you can earn by catching more key-bearing 
 bunnies. All of these mini-games require the use of the stylus. All of these mini-games are very 
 addictive and hard to get away from to play the main game.
  
  Overall, Super Mario 64 DS is a great game. You can't go wrong with a wonderful game at a low price 
 of $29.99. I advise anyone with a love of Mrio and cheap price tags to pick up this game right 
 away.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: humcast
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 8, 2004 11:28 pm PT
Review:  Nintendo's Super Mario franchise made the ambitious leap into the world of 3D on the Nintendo 64. 
 Along with introducing new game mechanics for the brand-new Mario outing, Nintendo had several 
 goals with the release of Super Mario 64. Naturally it was a way to show off the capabilities of 
 the new hardware, letting Mario strut his stuff in full 3D. But it was also a prime outlet for 
 Nintendo to wean players into the realm of analog control; Nintendo made the bold move to incorporate 
 analog control right out of the box, and to anyone playing Super Mario 64 on the system it's pretty 
 obvious that the game and the controller were developed side-by-side. The end result: Super Mario 
 64 became a massive commercial, critical, and design success for the Nintendo 64 console, and though 
 future games have built upon and improved on the ideas established by Nintendo's development team, 
 gamers still regard Super Mario 64 as one of the finest examples of 3D platforming ever created.
 
  
  Almost a decade since the game's debut Nintendo has revived the fantastic design for a new generation 
 of players. The intention is nearly the same the second time around: Nintendo's system needs a 
 "killer app" to demonstrate its new system's capabilities and unique control structure. Super Mario 
 64 DS successfully demonstrates that the Nintendo DS has the right stuff to recreate an existing 
 "64-bit" game on handheld hardware, and there's no question about the quality of the game's production 
 value. The problem lies within the fact that the game was always meant to play with a Nintendo 
 64 controller. Though the Nintendo DS developers pull off the game's original control structure 
 extraordinarily well on a system without an analog stick, it still feels like a compromise and 
 begs the question,"if this is your killer app to show off the system, why the heck didn't you include 
 one in the first place?" 
::::::

::::::
UserName: seanthemanuk
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 4, 2004 2:06 pm PT
Review:  An excellent opening adventure for the new DS. I played the original to death in '97 (We didnt 
 get it till later in the UK) the gameplay has been livened up from the original with the older 
 nintedo chracters that have been introduced. It is so much fun playing through and the graphics 
 look that much clearer and sharper on the smaller screen than the N64 on my TV. 
  My only critism is with the controls can be a little fiddly i find when negotiating tight ledges 
 at speed, but other than that its still great fun. Still so much better than a lot of games that 
 came out on the N64, the cube and xbox that i own i cant believe that they've shrunk it all down 
 to fit in the DS!
  Cant wait for the next Mario installment 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kgb12345
Rating: 9.6
Date: Dec 2, 2004 2:51 am PT
Review:  I'll make it short and sweet. If you liked the original game (how could you not?) you'll love this 
 just as much. Sure the controls may be a little less smooth than on the 64, but remember, this 
 is a system that fits in your pocket!
  
  While they changed some of the classic elements of the original, like the hats, they incorperate 
 them with all of the characters. The new levels aren't nearly as memorable as the old ones, but 
 it doesn't hurt to have even more. This is a game that people are giving a hard time because it 
 may not control as tight as a xbox game. Well, it's not an xbox, it's an n64 in your pocket. People 
 need to realize how amazing that is. This is a sign of things to come for the ds. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: daniel1201989
Rating: 8.8
Date: Dec 1, 2004 11:07 pm PT
Review:  Super Mario 64 is an old game. You ran into a level. There was no history to the level. You were 
 just kind of there, looking for the stars.
  
  Super Mario 64 DS is a newer game. It has a more modern feel. Little things have been done to this 
 port to make it feel newer. An example of this is: In Super Mario DS you go into Bomb on Field 
 and you learn that a war is going on with the Pink Bombs and the Black Bombs.
  
  That was never in the original game. It does close to nothing to the game play, but it makes you 
 feel like other things are going on around you, or went on around you.
  
  Gameplay:9
  Super Mario's game play is always fun. In this port they added 3 new characters: Mario. Luigi, 
 Yoshi, and Wario. I take it you have already read the GameSpot Review so I don't really need to 
 get into this.
  
  Graphics:8
  Ugly tecsures are around, but not very often. And in my opinion the character models look great.
 
  
  Sound:8
  The stereo sound is really good; you can tell when one sound is coming from one side easily. In 
 fact once in the game you need to use the stereo sound.
  
  Its a game you should have because its the best game out for the DS right now. You NEED to have 
 this game.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: 1337_g4m3r
Rating: 9.4
Date: Nov 30, 2004 2:35 am PT
Review:  Remember when you got your Nintendo 64 at launch with Super Mario 64? The game was so revolutionary, 
 changing the way we play games. I certainly didnt have that chance, as I didnt get a Nintendo 
 64 for a couple of years later. I didnt even pick up the game for some odd reason. I had played 
 it at a friends house, but never actually got too in-depth with it. Now with the Nintendo DS releasing, 
 I had a chance to experience what others had years ago, and in a new way! 
  
  Super Mario 64 DS is a port/remake, with lots of new features. The most compelling addition to 
 this version is that you have a chance to play with three other characters instead of Mario. You 
 can be swallowing enemies with Yoshi, jumping onto high cliffs with Luigi, or smashing hard boulders 
 with Wario! Since there are multiple characters, the story differs from the original. 
  Princess Peach has sent an invitation saying, Please come to the castle. Ive baked a cake for 
 you. Mario is accompanied by Luigi and Wario to enter the Mushroom Castle. Though, they dont 
 come out of the castle for quite some time, so Yoshi, who was quietly resting on top of the castle, 
 decides to go check on them. Yoshi then discovers that Bowser has stolen the Power Stars guarding 
 the castle and locked Princess Peach into the walls, while the rest of the crew have been captured 
 into paintings! Its up to Yoshi to rescue his team and save Princess Peach from the evil Bowser.
 
  
  The gameplay is quite different from the original Mario 64, as the DS does not have an analog stick. 
 Some may think its not worth playing, but with some practice, youll eventually get use to the 
 d-pad. Luckily there is three different control types, just incase you dont like the d-pad and 
 want to use the stylus or thumb-strap on the touch-screen. I certainly prefer the d-pad. The action 
 buttons work well, though you might watch how youre pressing, the buttons are small and can easily 
 be touched if you have big hands. Other than the flaw of no analog stick, Super Mario 64 DS certainly 
 feels great to control. 
  
  Just like in the original, youll be jumping into paintings to get stars from different worlds. 
 There are different kinds of missions in each world to receive your rewarded star. There are bosses 
 included, but theyre easy to beat. One of the most exciting aspects of the game is the extra mini-games 
 included. I would have to say they are the reason youll keep playing this game after youve completed 
 adventure mode. The mini-games use the touch-screen and the dual-screens to its full advantage. 
 Nintendo surely knows how to innovate the way we play games. One example of a mini-game is one 
 of Warios, which has a slingshot on the bottom touch-screen with a boulder that you must touch 
 and release with your stylus to launch onto the top-screen and hit the bob-ombs that are trying 
 to get the flowers on the lower-screen. This mini-game alone will amaze you.
  
  The graphics are quite smoother than the original. Though, it still looks a little blocky. Its 
 not that big of a deal, as this is just a launch title. Im sure the DS has bigger advantages that 
 well see in the near future. Character models look great, so does the environment. 
  
  As in every Mario game, the sound is excellent. Not much to say, as its self-explanatory. 
  
 
  Overall, this is a MUST have for a DS owner. Great launch title especially. This game has great 
 replay value, as there are 30 more stars than the original, and the mini-games will keep you busy. 
 If you loved the original for the N64, you should still pick this up, even if you want to play 
 the mini-games alone! If havent played the original, then definitely get this game. Youll be 
 amazed on what you missed out. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Neoledd
Rating: 9.4
Date: Nov 29, 2004 5:33 pm PT
Review:  Gotta DS? Love the 64? Get this game! I was a skeptic about the whole DS wave coming through, but 
 i was very impressed. Nintendo has done it once again and created a great concept using past ideas. 
 With even more extra content than the original, Mario 64 DS is great for supplying my miniscule 
 attention span with hours of minigames and an adventure mode that reminds me of the good ol' 64 
 days. My only complaint is that i cant play multiplayer yet.... but soon enough I'm sure more people 
 will come around to this great game. So if you wanna game that has alot of gameplay time and doesn't 
 hit you hard with a high price, get this renovated classic! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: maximummaker
Rating: 9.4
Date: Nov 29, 2004 1:30 am PT
Review:  After the swarm of reviews this DS giant has received, I'll keep it to a minimum and touch on the 
 new features incorporated into the game. First off, the mini-games are the definite reason Mario 
 64 DS has caused such an outburst of satisfaction; well that, and the superb game play the original 
 already had. Together, the mini games and main story mode work perfectly together, each providing 
 relief from each other when either one gets boring. Finding rabbits can be more rewarding than 
 finding stars most of the time, considering every rabbit you find adds more replay value onto the 
 game. As for the graphics, they're a nice, subtle update that can easily be over looked if you 
 haven't played the original in awhile. The sound may be a slight bit worse than the original, but 
 since there's no telling what the DS's sound can handle yet, the sound is mostly as amazing as 
 it was back in the day. Though the touch screen definitely doesn't handle as well as just moving 
 a joy-stick, you'll practically be navigating the 4 main Mario characters like a pro in a few hours.
 
  
  If you weren't born in time to experience the awe that came from the introduction of the new generation 
 of consoles, then you need to ask your mom to buy this for you now! Otherwise, it's just a no brainer 
 for everyone who experienced the game its first round through our hearts.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: -Sniper99-
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 28, 2004 1:24 pm PT
Review:  I love this game, one of the best platformers ever ina handheld package!!! The minigames are fun 
 and addicting and you can't get enough of trying to play through all the levels with different 
 characters! Alas, the multiplayer is a bit lacking, 4 maps?? I was expecting to be able to play 
 co-op or minigames together. The graphics are amazing and the game is very fun, just dont be expecting 
 to have a blast with multiplayer (MP: H is way more fun) . All in all I love this game, I really do 
 I think it is really amazing the minigames are soo addicting and fun (wanted is my fav) I just cant 
 tell u how much the multiplayer let me down! Everything else is sweet! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: alucart
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 28, 2004 4:06 am PT
Review:  Nintendo released Mario 64 for the Nintendo 64 entertainment system back in 1996. It changed the 
 platform or should I say 3d platformer genre forever. Game makers have used the formula that Nintendo 
 used in Mario 64 to make the best paltformers we know today. Mario 64 DS does much more than uses 
 that formula, it improves on it by adding in the features that the Nintendo DS has to offer. The 
 developers have changed some of the game to make in more in key with using the 4 characters, each 
 being able to provide a special power in the levels they are most needed or just for fun. The gameplay 
 remains the same overall even with the additions to the game. Mario 64 DS is a game that can be 
 picked up any amount of time to play, 10 mins, 2 hours, or even if your crazy 8+ hours to enjoy 
 in one sitting. The controls that the DS offers are nice, while not nearly as nice as the joystick 
 Nintendo introduced back in 1996 that Mario 64 took advantage of, there is one control option that 
 close called "Touch Mode". You put your thumb in the thumb pad provided with the DS, and put your 
 thumb on the touch screen. A bulls eye target looking icon pops up and you move your thumb inside 
 the icon to move your character on the screen, which make yours character move depending on how 
 far you are from the center, the center being neutral. Touch mode does have one flaw I feel that 
 Nintendo could have made better, when your using "touch mode" and you start to move your thumb 
 to move your character you start moving the icon, eventually having to take your thumb off and 
 replace it on the touch screen somewhere better suited to get a full speed run in the game. Nintendo 
 could have made something similar to this bulls eye target icon that would simulate the Nintendo 
 64 joystick better. They could have made a transparent Nintendo 64 Joystick top pop up, and when 
 you move it to the outside ring the icon circle would not move and they could have implemented 
 the joystick going back to neutral so you would never have to lift you thumb and replace it somewhere 
 else cause you would know where the joystick would end up. That would provide a more realistic 
 joystick feel. Nintendo made the graphics in Mario 64 DS better than the Mario 64 you know back 
 in 1996. Mario 64 DS has crisper not so blurry textures and has better shadows on something in 
 the game. The characters have more polygons so they look better too, even the enemies you fight 
 in the game look to have more polygons. The sound in the game is crisp and rich in quality. While 
 some sounds seem to be played back in a lower bit rate than others, i find it hardly noticeable. 
 Mario 64 has some very rememberable music and Mario 64 DS continues that by adding more tunes to 
 the extra levels they added, one tune is from Mario Sunshine for Gamecube, which is a fun song 
 to hear. The mini-games that have been added to the game are simply the best mini-games I have 
 played. The mini-games show off the capabilities of the dual screen layout, with wonderful gameplay 
 mechanics and great sound they are sure to please even the most scepticle game player. The mini-games 
 are a great addition to the Mario series. I hope Nintendo continues to add mini-games to the DS 
 series of Mario games.
  
  With the clear visuals, great sounds, and the most advanced gameplay on any handheld to date, Mario 
 64 DS is sure to please any fan of Mario 64 and surely please any new comers to the 3d platformer 
 genre. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Gigas_Yuu
Rating: 9.2
Date: Nov 26, 2004 7:44 am PT
Review:  Besides the fact that Mario 64 made itself the Nintendo 64's supporting pillar in its debut, Mario 
 64 accomplishes even more with the DS version. With better clarity with the dual LCD screens and 
 the function of more characters, Mario 64 DS is a solid supporting gun for Nintendo's console war 
 with other systems. This game for the DS, by itself is a lot more entertaining than playing a game 
 on the Xbox or PS2 and yes Nintendo's own Gamecube.
  
  Bringing such graphics to a handheld system is unheard of until now. Mario 64 DS delivers.
  
 
  To relive the series brings back a great feeling. The music is fun during gameplay, and the ability 
 to draw your own picture into the intro of the game makes a fun experience for children. However, 
 the controls of Mario 64 DS are a bit difficult and can prove to be frustrating resulting in A) 
 Quitting or B) Bad tempers.
  
  Mario games have always been challenging. In this game you will find yourself having to adapt quickly 
 with the mediocre camera angles, moving to which every direction the camera's perspective has you 
 in. With the D-pad this can be difficult, but with three control modes a child will eventually 
 find his feel. 
  
  A walkthrough is suggested when stuck. Great graphics, gameplay and sound.
  
  
  Period. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cosmostein77
Rating: 8.2
Date: Nov 25, 2004 3:01 pm PT
Review:  A Twist on a classic, 
  I have to admit I was impressed the first time I started up Mario 64 DS on my Nintendo DS, this 
 is another leap forward in handheld technology. 
  
  But then we get down to the game itself, 
  
  Its hard to get on the games graphics and say 
 they are not great, because I have to remind myself that its a handheld afterall, but there were 
 some color and texture issues I notices right off the bat, just little things that could have been 
 fixed but were not, that really is somewhat of a distraction for the first little while and then 
 you simply adjust to it and don't pay it a second thought. I still must say its among one of the 
 better looking games graphically I have seen on a handheld so ot gets full credit for that.
  
  Gameplay is one of those tricky things, the design of the DS takes some getting used to, but 
 coming from a GBA SP I found it to be a touch heavy but you get used to it, the gameplay is an 
 improvement over N64's because lets face it the control pad was a bus wreck on N64 so its a similar 
 system done with ease because of the control set up on the DS
  
  The Sound... Meh. Nothing earth shattering but it is a Mario Game afterall so its really hard to 
 walk into this game with expectations on great sound but it was Mario's usual sounds like a Midi 
 sort of set up with a few neat twists mostly taken from the N64 version and in some cases touched 
 up a bit but in reality its a Mario game what more can I say?
  
  The question is, how much of a Value is the game?
  Well does it make the purchase of a DS worth 
 it? No not quite its perhaps the best game in a servicable launch title group, and very well done 
 if you have a DS buy it, but don't buy a DS for it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Swordslinger0
Rating: 9.6
Date: Nov 24, 2004 10:09 pm PT
Review:  I never had an N64 so I missed out on Super Mario 64 back in '96. But, with the DS getting an enhanced 
 port of the game I knew I couldn't pass it up again and I'm definitly glad I didn't.
  
  Gameplay: Mario 64 DS plays just like Mario 64 and Super Mario Sunshine. Princess Peach's castle 
 is the main area and you access all other areas from there. Inside the castle there are many doors 
 that contain paintings, you have to enter the painting worlds, which each contain 7 missions that 
 all end up giving you a power star upon completion. The painting worlds come in wide varieties, 
 you'll visit Egyptian themed deserts, a mountain covered in snow and ice, dive under water, fly 
 thru the sky, etc. 
  
  Like past Mario games you'll have to navigate thru jump puzzles making precise movements. The puzzles 
 featured in the game aren't unfairly hard and you should be able to get thru them with some practice. 
 If you do happen to come across a puzzle that is a bit too hard it could be that you are using 
 the incorrect character for the job. A new addition to the DS version is the ability to play as 
 either Mario, Luigi, Yoshi, or Wario. Initially you will start the game as Yoshi and proceed to 
 rescue the others. When you want to switch your character you simply return to the castle and enter 
 the specific character's room to play as them (this can only be done after they are rescued) . 
 
  
  If you get a little bored with the main adventure the game also features more than 30 mini games 
 that you play using the stylus. The mini games provide a great way to amuse yourself when you can't 
 find anything else to do. You start the game with only a few mini games, but when playing the main 
 game you'll come across rabbits, if you catch a rabbit you'll be given a key that unlocks a mini 
 game. To get all the mini games you'll have to play as all the characters and catch all of their 
 specific rabbits. 
  
  Super Mario 64 DS also features a multiplayer mode that is quite different than the ones found 
 on the GameBoy Advance Mario games. In this multiplayer mode four people can play at once using 
 a single Super Mario 64 DS game card. There are only four maps to choose from, but they're all 
 pretty good. The object is to be the one to collect the most out of 5 stars in a 60 second round. 
 Everyone is a different color yoshi, but you can pick up either Mario, Luigi, or Wario's hat in 
 order to play as them. 
  
  Control: The control in the game is a bit weird a first, but after some practice it will become 
 second nature to you. Though many reviewers hated the D-pad while playing the game, I think it 
 works the best of all the choices. It takes some time to get used to playing a 3D game with a D-pad, 
 but it works just fine. The touch screen control works a lot more like a joy stick, its pretty 
 responsive, but I just don't think its as refined as it could be. 
  
  Sound: The sound in the game is all top notch. All of Mario's hoots and hollers are found in this 
 portable version and they all sound great. The tunes are catchy and they stay with you in a good 
 way. I really don't have any complaints here, everything just sounds great. 
  
  Overall, Super Mario 64 DS is a top notch game that is a perfect launch title. I always wanted 
 to play the game, and now I have to chance to play it better than it was originally. If you own 
 a DS or plan on getting one you can't go wrong with Super Mario 64 DS.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: gavhad
Rating: 9.7
Date: Nov 24, 2004 5:19 pm PT
Review:  If you have ever enjoyed the jump and run platforming genre, then this game is definitely for you. 
 Lately, I could not get my hands off this game. It is addicting and a fresh start for the DS. Super 
 Mario DS uses the touch screen rather well through a wide variety of mini games that are just plain 
 fun. Everything just comes out well.
  
  People seem to be complaining about the controls alot, but I have not encountered anything that 
 was too bad. You wind up enjoying the game, much more than you would expect, and before you know 
 it, you are already used to the controls.
  
  The music and sound effects are crisp and clear. None of the sounds are out of place. Everything 
 comes together at an exceptional rate. No complaints in that department.
  
  All the animations and graphics look sharp. Lots of time was spent making this game look great. 
 You won't ever get tired of looking at this game.
  
  If you have not already bought the game and you own a DS, give it a try. Fans of the tried and 
 true Mario games should already have this title bought. If you have never really been into Mario, 
 then this game will still appeal to those who just like an all around awesome platforming experience. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Reptile711
Rating: 9.6
Date: Nov 24, 2004 12:08 am PT
Review:  I bought DS the first day. And I played 10 straight hours of Super Mario 64 DS. I didn't bother 
 playing Metroid Prime Hunters because I was too excited to play a full version game. Super Mario 
 64 DS is quite a big leap from the 64 to the DS. The graphics have gotten a bit better, more animation 
 and less colorful so the tone isn't too saturated, and awesome gameplay, a bit iffy at first but 
 you'll get the hang of it. My God, this is one game everyone has to play, even if they're not DS 
 users. The graphical standpoint is a huge leap from GBA SP to the DS because now that DS can perform 
 polygonal displays higher than N64; it's simply amazing. The biggest problem I have to say about 
 this game though is its gameplay. Topsy-turvy over a few button pushing and the alignment of the 
 buttons are very confusing at first. But after a few minutes of gameplay, you'll get the hang of 
 it. It's quite easy as in saying collect all 150 stars, but it is a very very long game. And there's 
 always something you need to have in order to progress in the game before you move on. It's annoying 
 but fun. The game is fun and Nintendo really makes an awesome potential and future for the DS. 
 This is the best one out for the DS so anyone who preordered it, they should have alongside Super 
 Mario 64 DS. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mariokart64fan
Rating: 9.8
Date: Nov 23, 2004 11:37 pm PT
Review:  game play the play is great and more better then the original more characters to use and more challenging 
 
  
  sound great sound even on gba games it sounds great the music is a little di fferent in the water 
 levels / underground levels 
  
  value this thing not only is a port its more than a port it has 30 extra stars multiplayer single 
 cart play and alot of minigames plus you can draw and write on title screen 
  
  graphics the graphics look more cleaner then the original are they using n64 or gcs graphics ? 
 right now its hard to tell id say more towards game cubes or in between its not 64s for 1 n64 has 
 blurry texture sometimes like if you moved to fast 
  
  tilt if you played the original and want a on the go version or even if your new get this game 
 stop what your doing pick up a ds and a copy of super mario 64 ds im sure psp wont have as good 
 as games as ds does. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cpawlenty
Rating: 9.4
Date: Nov 23, 2004 7:37 am PT
Review:  There couldn't be a more perfect launch title for the DS, even if the core game dosen't rely much 
 on the touch screen. Super Mario 64 DS immeadatley shows off the graphical prowess of Nintendo's 
 new handheld, and is a lot of fun to play for gamers who remember the last incarnation of this 
 superb action title and those who are new to it. Even with the introduction of the DS touch screen, 
 Nintendo didn't add a lot to the core gameplay of the "adventure" portion of the game. Using the 
 d-pad and standard buttons works, but there is no doubt that the lack of true analog control (using 
 the touch screen you can controlt the characters movement, but it is extremely akward) . Nintendo 
 did include a few options on how you want to configure the control, but I found that the most precise 
 control was with the d-pad. 
  
  The adventure starts out with Yoshi entering the castle, searching for Mario, Luigi, and Wario 
 who already ran into the castle and were kidnapped. From here, it's basically the core N64 game 
 with a lot of welcome additions and improvements. Upon finding the the trio of lost characters, 
 you can go to a new room in the castle and switch between them at your lesiure. Likewise, in levels 
 you can find the caps of the characters and assume their abilities to help pass some of the character-specific 
 areas in the game that require specific skills. The map on the bottom screen can be useful for 
 navigation, and is especially helpful for red coin and silver star seek-n-finds, but other than 
 that it's not that visually appealing and is kind of hard to read. It also rotates wildly with 
 the camera, which can disorient your path sometimes. There is no question that the difficulty of 
 this game is underrated by most. Collecting stars is the point of the adventure mode, each level 
 has seven quest stars, plus one more for collecting 100 coins. Some of the stars are readily accessible 
 for all whatever character you are, some require you to be a certian character with a certian ability. 
 The castle also contians multiple "secret stars", in which you enter mini levels and perform tasks, 
 or simply talk to a stationary toad located somewhere in the castle. In order to "finish" the game 
 you need a required amount of stars to face off with Bowser. But the beauty of the length of the 
 title is going after all of the stars. It is a true test of your skill if you are able to net in 
 all 150 stars, because some of the latter ones are extremely difficult to acquire. Only a handful 
 of them reach chore status, the vast majority are fun to search for and satisfying to find. 
  
  The game's rec room is a great new idea which uses the full functionality of the touch screen. 
 By finding keys in the adventure mode, you unlock new stylus games that are plentiful and a lot 
 of fun, if not a little short lived. Some of the best ones are avaiiable upon the first time you 
 play, such as Wario's slingshot game where you shoot down bomb-ombs and protect a flower patch 
 that represents your health. By pulling back on the cannon ball that you fire, you launch it from 
 the lower screen to the upper screen and shoot down the invading bombs. As the bombs fall, they 
 also go down to the lower screen, where the shooting gets extremely frantic as the rate and number 
 of baddies increases. Using the stylus is definatley a big help here, as it is in most touch modes 
 for precise control. Likewise, using one's finger works, but can make a streaky mess in no time. 
 As of now I have yet to unlock all of the mini games, but the fifteen I have already got are a 
 lot of fun, there only being a handful that haven't proven to be much fun. 
  
  Multiplayer action is going to be plentiful and fun soon on the DS, but this title's forray into 
 multiplayer isn't very impressive. It's basically a frantic seek and find for stars on four different 
 maps, with players assuming the roles of the game's four protagonists. One of the new and very 
 appealing features of the DS is the ability to download multiplayer games to all DS units sharing 
 a connection. This means that it only takes one Mario 64 DS game cart for up to four users, whereas 
 with the GameBoy and GameBoy Advance every player had to have the game cart and a link cable. This 
 is a great feature, it's just too bad that the multiplayer isn't anything much to play with after 
 a few rounds. 
  
  Overall, there could not be a better way to introduce a new chapter of handheld gaming to the public 
 than with this very title. Mario 64 DS manages to impress the user with it's sharp graphical presentation, 
 clean and great audio output, easy gameplay mechanics (if not a little frustrating to those who 
 have played the N64 version with analog control) , use of both screens through the rec room mode, 
 and the game's vast singleplayer adventure mode. Enough tweeks have been made to the adventure 
 that it will seem much newer and fresher to those who have mastered it's predecessor, and the game 
 still holds up as one of the premier 3-D action titles ever made. Bravo to Nintendo for bringing 
 such a brilliant game back into the spotlight and making it even better. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: JQueasy
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 22, 2004 9:09 pm PT
Review:  As the Gamespot review said, the only real complaint about this game is the controls. But its not 
 that big of a problem. The story mode is great, but what i like the best are the mini games. They 
 are highly addictive. You start off with just a few but you quickly unlock more. Some of them are 
 great, like the sling shot the bob-ombs game. Then there is crap, like the yoshi pluck the flower 
 she loves me loves me not crap. WHY ADD THIS. Its not a game. This games story mode is as good 
 now as it was when Mario 64 came out. The addition of 3 more playable characters is awesome. There 
 is some little drawing thing thats cool for about 10 minutes. This is the game to get with your 
 DS. NO Question. The mini games show what the DS and do, and the Story mode give you great lasting 
 game play. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: RealestDeMo
Rating: 9.4
Date: Nov 22, 2004 2:51 pm PT
Review:  Super Mario 64 DS, by far one of the best looking launch DS games. I know what you're thinking, 
 "Didn't I beat this on the N64?" Yes you may have beaten it on the N64, but the revamped DS version 
 is stll worth a look-see, especially with it's $29.99 price tag, as compared with the other launch 
 titles ($39.99, $49.99) . 
  
  The new features in the game make up where It lacks, single cartrige multiplayer, unlockable touch 
 screen mini games, the additional charactors and levels, and even that little drawing game at the 
 main menu. The multiplayer is simple, you and your other DS buddies run around in different levels 
 collecting stars. Sounds simple enough right. Have four people playng and it quckly becomes a competative 
 frenzy. The mini games are simple, but still offer hours of touch screen fun. From matching cards, 
 and bouncing marios, to rolling smowballs, these minigames won't be left alone by anyone planning 
 on getting this game.
  
  Overall the gameplay of the origional parts of the game are much the same, with the exception of 
 hidden rooms and missions, and the additional characters. The mini games are fun and make good 
 use of the touch screen, this game will provide hours of non-stop gameplay. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: playboy2054
Rating: 8.4
Date: Nov 22, 2004 1:14 am PT
Review:  This game is, for me, a complete surprise. The reviews had me thinking I would be a little upset. 
 I do agree with the reviews as far as the control being a little off, but all in all that really 
 doesnt hinder the gameplay all that much. The controls just take a little getting used to and once 
 that's done all you are left with is a solid remake of a game that revolutionized 3d gameplay on 
 the nintendo 64. The mini games do just about the same for the nintendo ds. The mini games are 
 all stylus oriented and are insanely addictive. I suggest this game to everyone. It is money well 
 spent. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ngamer8
Rating: 9.3
Date: Nov 21, 2004 10:06 pm PT
Review:  Super Mario 64 for the N64 was argueably one of the best games of all time. It started the 3-D 
 platformer genre. It was wonderfully made and very innovative. Shigeru Miyamoto has done it again 
 with Super Mario 64 DS.
  Super Mario 64 DS has splendid graphics that top the N64 by far. The animations are very smooth 
 and the characters are less blocky and have slicker appearances. 
  The stereo sound sounds wonderful with all of those memorable music pieces that are quickly recognized 
 from the 1996 version. Also, the SFX from the minigames are top-notch and are what you'd expect 
 from a Gamecube game.
  You'll be playing Super Mario 64 DS for a long time and even after you beat Bowser, you want to 
 go through and collect all of the stars.
  What's different in this version of the game rally makes you go "Oh, wow. That's cool." There are 
 many new rooms in the castle, new worlds, mini-games, more stars to collect, and of course the 
 addition of being able to play as Luigi, Wario, and Yoshi.
  If you have a DS you should go pick up Super Mario 64 DS. Heck, even if you don't have a DS go 
 but one and this game with it. You won't regret it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: RyshidenXBL
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 21, 2004 3:05 am PT
Review:  I recently aquired my Nintendo DS (which I must say is super sharp) and along with it I bought 
 Mario 64 DS. Since this time I've sunk over 20+ hours into this update and I must say that it's 
 more than I expected. The only downfall is that the D-pad is far from ideal when controlling a 
 character moving in full 3D. It is easy to adapt, but be prepared to feel akward controlling Yoshi 
 at first, especially if you played the N64 classic.
  
  Gameplay: Wonderful as ever. As I stated before the controls take some getting used to, but there 
 are many options that will surely please almost anyone. One of my favorite new modes is a set of 
 mini games that use the touch screen in great fashion. One game has you picking out various Mario 
 World characters among a mass of differient ones using the touch screen. Others have you pulling 
 back a slingshot with the touchpad and slinging a stone into the top screen to hit bullet bills 
 before they fall on your shy guys. Wonderful implementation of the dual screens are evident in 
 the camera control as well which is controlled by the touch screen. Mario 64 DS is pretty much 
 the same game as before but a ton of added extras make it fresh enough to feel completely new.
 
  
  Graphics: Much sharper than the N64 original partially due to the smaller screen. Everything about 
 Mario 64 DS looks great. It's wonderful to see the DS be able to pump out graphics this solid early 
 in it's lifecycle. All the character models (Yoshi, Peach, Mario, Wario, etc.) are beautifully 
 rendered as are the enviroments which they inhabit.
  
  Sound: The most impressive thing to me is how this game sounds on the DS. Never before have you 
 heard sound this good on a handheld. This is more a compliment to the DS technology than it is 
 to Mario 64 DS, but the DS is capable of some pretty incredible sound.
  
  Value: With a VS mode, a Rec Room mode, and 30 extra stars (which brings the total to a whopping 
 150) , there is so much to do here that you'll be getting your money's worth hands down. A wonderful 
 launch title for the DS and a true value at $29.99.
  
  Bottom Line: If you own a DS, you must own this game, it's the best launch title for the DS by 
 far. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
