-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Syberia
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/ds/adventure/syberia/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 Syberia fanatics can now take the surreal adventure on commutes.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 Tedious pixel-hunt gameplay.
 Interface leaves a lot to be desired.
 Obtuse, poorly told storyline.
 Blurry graphics.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Jan  9, 2009
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 3.5
Critic Score: 4.9, 8 Review (s)
User Score: 3.8, 33 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Dreamcatcher
Genre: Adventure
Date: Nov 25, 2008
ESRB: Teen

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
This DS port of the classic PC adventure game is a pale shadow of its original self. 

  If you had to make a list of all the adventure games you could pick to be ported to the Nintendo 
 DS, Syberia would probably land at the very bottom. The 2002 PC point-and-clicker from Microids 
 and Belgian graphic novelist Benoit Sokal was a superb game in its day, but it was also loaded 
 with the kind of extravagant graphical detail that just can't be adapted to a handheld system very 
 well without a complete overhaul. Unfortunately, developer Tetraedge Games has moved the game to 
 its new platform with few changes, which results in a clunky pixel hunt featuring none of the surreal 
 magic of the original game.  

           Kate Walker, at least, has survived the transition to the DS intact.      

  Even Syberia's 
 compellingly bizarre story has taken some lumps here. Although you still play as Kate Walker, a 
 New York attorney trying to unravel the many mysteries around a French toy company and its automaton-creating 
 heir, presentation issues interfere with the tale-telling so much that it can be very hard to figure 
 out what exactly is going on. All of the voice samples from the original game have been stripped 
 away, and the music has been dropped to a single fraction of the original score that annoyingly 
 plays over and over again. This gives the game a silent-movie vibe in which Kate never gives any 
 tips or makes any observations about her surroundings. She speaks up only through brief blurbs 
 of text when you are blocked from proceeding into a new area because you haven't wrapped up everything 
 in your present location. So you get the odd "Hey, I can't do that yet!" comment and pretty much 
 nothing else.  

  This is a real drawback because more direction is desperately needed to make heads or tails out 
 of Syberia. The graphics of the PC version of the game have simply been shrunk down and pixelated 
 to fit onto the DS screens, which makes it very tough to solve puzzles. Some of the objects that 
 you need to pick up are incredibly tiny in their new handheld format, no more than a couple of 
 pixels wide. Visuals are quite blurry as well, making everything so indistinct that you can rarely 
 tell what it is that you're supposed to be looking at, let alone what you might be able to do with 
 it. No effort has been made to ensure that such Lilliputian objects stand out from the backgrounds, 
 either. If you aren't looking for a specific item such as a key on a desk, for instance, chances 
 are awfully good that you won't spot it.  

           The diminutive DS screen struggles to do Syberia's visuals justice.      

  The stylus-dependent 
 interface fails to compensate for these visual issues. The stylus stands in for a mouse cursor 
 and lets you move Kate around on the lower touch screen and open the inventory that is also displayed 
 on the upper screen. You can also select an eye icon that can be scrolled around to see which areas 
 light up with gears, a pick-up hand, or lips indicating that a conversation can be initiated. The 
 control scheme works rather poorly, though, because it is inaccurate. For example, youll find 
 yourself accidentally entering a doorway on the top of the screen when you tap a roadway down at 
 the bottom. Movement mistakes are costly, too, given that Kate ambles across every screen at a 
 slow walk and there are no shortcuts when trying to exit an area. Dragging the stylus over every 
 square millimeter of the screen to find objects that you can barely see with the naked eye also 
 isn't a great deal of fun. Using the stylus in this way seems like a cheap dodge to get around 
 the graphical problems inherent in porting a game directly from the PC to a tiny handheld. This 
 choice let the developer avoid the total redesign that would have properly scaled down the visuals 
 for the new platform, but at the cost of turning the entire game into a spectacularly tedious pixel 
 hunt.  

  The bottom line is that there are much better adventure choices available on the DS than Syberia. 
 This once-impressive PC game has been awkwardly crammed into a tiny cartridge with little attention 
 to how the transition would affect playability, and the results are exactly as bad as you might 
 expect.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (2 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: SBF9304
Rating: 5.5
Date: Jan 16, 2009 11:05 am PT
Review:  Don't get me wrong, Syberia is a decent PC game, but the one reason I hate it, is because of the 
 play control. The play control for Tunguska: Secret Files on the DS is what I expected, where it 
 shows you all the hot*spots. I know on the PC you have to move the pointer over and wait for it 
 to light up or turn to a hand. On the DS you have to push an eye icon down and then drag it all 
 over the screen to find the hot spots, and even then they aren't accurate.
  
  What's worse is, that this isn't 100% like the PC version. They've taken some stuff out or even 
 moved it around. 
  
  The graphics are not that great, but fairly decent. You still get to see a lot of the movies/cut-scenes.
 
  
  The sound however is horrendous! There's hardly any sound effects, and the music is louder blocking 
 out what little sound effects there are. The only decent sound is in the cut scenes. 
  
  It's an okay game, but I paid $20 for it on the DS and only $10 on the PC. If you still want it 
 that bad, wait until it goes down in price. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sal__paradise
Rating: 3.5
Date: Nov 26, 2008 11:00 am PT
Review:  I think before Syberia hit the PC back in 2002 there was a widening gap in the adventure game genre. 
 Microids filled that gap and they did it with style. We had the old faithfulls like broken sword 
 and sam n max making comebacks but nothing completely original. An excellent storyline and stunning 
 visuals made Syeria one of the best of its kind and, I'm proud to say, one of the best games I'd 
 played for some time. 
  
  It's safe to say then that my hopes were high for Syberia DS. I didn't know too much about the 
 game before I got my hands on it. Was it a cross platform remake? Have they added anything new? 
 Is it a sequal? Okay...
  
  First things first; it IS a remake of the original PC game. I wasn't sure whether I felt relief 
 or disappointment after finding that out but I was certainly content. If you've played syberia 
 on the PC you'll know about the beautiful cinematics and the DS is no exception - the game starts 
 with the same opening movie as the original and it looks pretty neat on the DS. I was pleased with 
 this and fairly eager to experience the gameplay. Oh dear...
  
  You obviously use the stylus to point Kate in the direction you want her to move. You tap - she 
 goes there. simple right? nope. Before I approached any characters or did anything I actually turned 
 the game off, took the game out and inspected the calibration on my DS to make sure everything 
 was okay. Kate doesn't always walk when or where you want her to and it becomes frustrating FAST. 
 What's more... there is no way to make Kate run at all. So when you leave the hotel at the start 
 and you need to start getting to places it becomes almost painful. The backgrounds and visuals 
 are great but not so great that I want to stare at them for 2 minutes while kate makes her way 
 from one side of the screen to the other. I thought they might have added a little 'double tap' 
 feature (you had to double click on the pc) but there's nothing. 
  
  Understandably, there is no voice acting in the DS version. It is a shame because hearing characters 
 like Momo and the groovy robot guy (whose name I just can't remember) were what made the original 
 so smooth and enjoyable. This version seems a little more like hard work. Rather than the voices 
 and the movements we instead see a still image of the person we are talking to on the top screen 
 and the text on the bottom which we can then flick through. This seems somewhat laborious and a 
 little on the boring side compared to other games of the genre.
  
  Syberia on the PC was a GREAT game and if you havne't played it, put your DS down and go buy it. 
 If you have played it then, like me, you're going to be sorely disappointed by this port so let 
 me save you from that - go blow the dust off you pc copy and relive it on your desktop! but either 
 way don't spend your money on a copy of the DS version - its simply not worth it. None of the functionality, 
 none of the magic and some very clunky, shabby controlls.
  
  
  Graphics.......7/10
  playability....3/10
  sound..........5/10
  storyline......9/10
  OVERALL........3.5/10
  
 
  
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
