-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Tak: The Great Juju Challenge
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/ds/action/tak3/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 Fun platforming levels.
 Gorgeous 3D graphics.
 Addictive minigames.
 Nice selection of minigames.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 Quest mode too short.
 Terrible racing levels.
 Text-only dialogue.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Oct 12, 2005
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 7.2
Critic Score: 6.6, 11 Review (s)
User Score: 7.7, 102 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: THQ
Developer: Avalanche Software
Genre: 3D Platformer
Date: Sep 19, 2005
ESRB: Everyone

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Tak: The Great Juju Challenge is a fun and diverse platformer, but its replay value comes mainly 
 from its minigames. 

  It's a platform game. It's a racing game. It's a minigame collection. In actuality, Tak: The Great 
 Juju Challenge is all of the above. Players have to work through expansive 3D worlds, alternating 
 control between Tak and Lok, and tackle the various puzzles, minigames, and bosses scattered along 
 the way. If that weren't enough, a go-cart race marks the end of one world and the beginning of 
 the next. This wealth of variety makes Tak: The Great Juju Challenge a good pick for young players 
 and experienced gamers alike, but buyer beware: Once you finish the main quest, how long the game 
 card will remain in your DS will depend primarily on how much you like the included minigames. 

  The 3D platforming levels are some of the best the Nintendo DS has to offer. In all, Tak and Lok's 
 quest spans 15 large levels spread throughout four worlds. There's a healthy mix of platform jumping, 
 enemy bashing, and puzzle-solving. Often, you'll have to jump and climb your way to a switch in 
 one part of a level to raise some platforms in another part of the level. A few of the game's puzzles 
 are downright comical, too. In one level, there's a rhino guarding a large wooden fence. In order 
 to destroy the fence, you have to attack the rhino and make him chase you, and then lead him crashing 
 into the fence.  

  In the platforming levels, you can swap characters any time you like just by tapping the touch 
 screen. Tak and Lok each have their own uses. Tak can swim in shallow water and attack distant 
 enemies with his Juju magic, and he can use spells to heal himself or petrify enemies. Lok, meanwhile, 
 can't swim, but he can climb vine-covered surfaces and put on a lobster suit that lets him breathe 
 and walk deep underwater. Lok's spells also let him boost his own attack power or make him invincible 
 for short periods.  

  You can upgrade Tak and Lok's spells, health, attack power, and defense by purchasing blessing 
 gems from the sellers located between each world. The currency used to buy these gems comes in 
 the form of the fruits, crystals, and insects you collect within each level. The switches and paths 
 through each level tend to be painfully obvious and straightforward, so it's nice that there's 
 this extra incentive to explore and hunt around.  

  To top things off, the graphics in these levels are downright impressive. The characters, trees, 
 rocks, and other decorations in each level are well defined, thanks to crisp textures and a high 
 polygon count. Gratuitous details, such as transparent waterfalls, rivers, and lakes, are evident 
 all over the place, as are the accompanying splash effects that happen when Tak and Lok jump into 
 said rivers and lakes. If you stand atop a hill, you'll be able to look out over a fair portion 
 of the entire level. Draw distance and frame rate don't seem to be a problem with the game's graphics 
 engine, which is somewhat of a surprise, considering that many 3D platformers on the DS have such 
 short sight distances and choppy animation.  

  Going through the quest mode is fun, but the real payoff is all of the minigames that you can play 
 and unlock during the journey. There are 10 different minigames in all, and they take full advantage 
 of the system's touch screen and microphone capabilities. One such game is called Jumping Feather. 
 It works like air hockey, in that you use the stylus to hurl and bounce Tak off the sides of the 
 two screens and into torches located on the upper screen. Another minigame, Chicken Suit Tak, tasks 
 you to blow into the microphone in order to help Tak fly to the end of the stage. Some minigames 
 are simple and some are complex, such as in the case of Rhino Race. On the lower screen, Tak and 
 Lok are riding atop a running rhino. On the top screen, the Black Mist team is hurling magic attacks 
 down on Tak and Lok. To beat the game, you have to flick away the rocks, rub away the puddles that 
 get in the rhino's way, and tap the rhino to block the Black Mist's magic attacks. Other minigames 
 involve such tasks as shooting at birds, balancing sheep, and catching falling eggs. Once you complete 
 a minigame in the quest mode, you can play it anytime you want from the main menu.  

  Aside from the minigames, there are also go-cart competitions that take place between each world. 
 They're the game's least interesting and least enjoyable aspect. It's a bit of a letdown that each 
 race is merely a one-lap rush to the finish. There also aren't any turbo boosters or weapons on 
 the go-carts, and the tracks don't offer any shortcuts, either. They do offer plenty of surprise 
 drop-offs, though, which are often impossible to avoid because of unresponsive controls and poor 
 camera angles. Thankfully, there are only four total races in the entire game, and you can reattempt 
 a race as many times as you need to until you pass it -- so it's not like this one aspect ruins the 
 whole game.  

  Indeed, the variety and fun offered by the rest of the game makes the crummy racing competitions 
 almost a nonissue. As does the game's presentation, which is impressive not just in the technical 
 sense, but also in that sort of endearing, emotional sense that makes certain games memorable while 
 others fall flat. Sometimes it's nice to walk around in puddles or streams just to hear the splish-splash 
 of Tak's footsteps in the water. The levels in which you lead around a rhino, ride atop an elephant, 
 and tote around sheep are all unforgettable. If there is any drawback to the game's presentation, 
 it's that the dialogue during the between-level cinemas is displayed only in text and not spoken 
 by voice actors. Tak and Lok are funny characters, and some of their dim-witted expressions and 
 jokes are priceless, but that kind of stuff doesn't come across as well in stills and text as it 
 would with full-motion cinematics and prerecorded voice acting. The DS is fully capable of voice 
 acting, as a few recent games have shown. On the upside, the soundtrack is packed with happy, bongo-filled 
 tunes, and there are plenty of sound effects for the various enemies, animals, and environmental 
 features you'll encounter.  

  Ultimately, how much time you spend with the game will likely come down to how much you enjoy the 
 included minigames. The main quest is fun, but it's also a rather speedy romp that can be finished 
 in just under three hours. After that, it's the minigames that provide the most replay value. Each 
 minigame can be played with a timer or without, and the points you accrue will eventually unlock 
 extra levels in the game's Shaman Games play mode, which is basically a knockoff of the popular 
 Shockwave and cell phone game Bejeweled. In turn, completing levels in the Shaman Games mode will 
 unlock artwork that you can view in a picture gallery and rare blessing gems that you can immediately 
 put to use in the quest mode.  

  All told, Tak: The Great Juju Challenge is a fun, varied, and graphically impressive platformer, 
 but its longevity comes primarily from its minigames. If you don't like minigame collections, you'll 
 probably only squeeze a few hours out of the game before you're done with it. Conversely, if you 
 do like minigames, especially ones that take advantage of the Nintendo DS's touch screen and microphone 
 capabilities, the sky is the limit.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (8 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: skreetpreacha
Rating: 8
Date: Sep 30, 2007 6:39 pm PT
Review:  The Good: Fantastic 3D visuals for the DS. Puzzles are not too easy nor too hard. Most of the mini-games 
 are pretty good. Cheap price tag. The Bad: Combat is too easy. No speech. Not nearly as long and 
 grand as Mario 64 DS. No map overview. Driving minigame controls are pretty bad. Review: This game 
 is one of the few 3D platformers for the DS, so that's a plus right there. The only other one I've 
 played is Mario 64 DS. Compared to that game, this one doesn't have the bright bold colors and 
 worlds, though it's graphics are still very nice. This game is based more in a jungle, pyramid, 
 earthy type setting. The presentation overall is pretty good, just not near as slick as SM64. The 
 upside in comparison as that this game is more linear. Linear in the fact that you don't have to 
 replay the same level 8 times over, like in SM64. Much of this game's levels have it's shair of 
 twists and turns though, and since the game never really hints you on what to do, there is a sense 
 of exploration in this game, and a very small amount of backtracking. Just the way I like it. I 
 never got into the story aspect of this game. Matter of fact, I really only bought this game for 
 my son. And I should point out here, that this game is obviously lighthearted and not geared towards 
 hardcore and older gamers. Anyhoo, this game focuses alot on platforming, which is fine since you 
 have good jumping abilities in this game. You can triple jump to float across the air shortly, 
 and it's very easy to control Jak (or Lok) this way. The penalty for missing a jump is simply to 
 start over from the beginning of the jump series. I don't think there are any sort of lives to 
 count here. And personally, I LOVE it that way. I hate punishing games that make you start from 
 the beginning of the level and take away lives just for missing one jump *Yoshi's Island cough 
 cough*. The game has it's fair share of puzzles too. And unlike the type of hints you'd expect 
 from say a Zelda game, this game doesn't give any. Which is fine, because after a lil exploration, 
 the answer becomes obvious. Not as obvious as you'd think though. Anyhoo, I think the puzzle solving 
 was pretty balanced. My only complaint is that this game is pretty light on combat. The enemies 
 are pretty spread out, which is okay, if they were interesting enemies and took different strategies 
 to take down. But for the most part, they don't, lol, and it's mostly button mashing to wipe out 
 any enemies. There were complaints about this game's length, so I expected it to be short going 
 in. However, this game took me and my son a good 8-10 hours to beat, which isn't exactly THAT short 
 to me, for a platforming game. The only other complaint would be that there is no speech in the 
 game, the cutscenes are done by still shots and texts to move the 'story' along, which made the 
 story that much less interesting. The sound in this game is okay. The music is generally good, 
 but can get repetitive if you're stuck on the same level too long, lol. Same with the combat sound 
 effects... Oh, there are minigames spread throughout the story mode too. Most of them are pretty 
 good. The driving ones, not so good. The controls are very obtruse, but at least they are consistantly 
 that way, lol, so you can get used to them. You can also replay the minigames the main menu at 
 any time.
  
  That's about it. I'd recommend this game to any young gamers in the 6-12 age range, especially 
 fans of platformers, 3D platformers, or the Tak TV series. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: YoungDre360
Rating: 7.3
Date: Dec 1, 2006 11:59 pm PT
Review:  I recently came across a copy of Tak: TGJC for 15 bucks at that retail monster that shall remail 
 nameless. While not expecting a revolutionare game along the lines of Super Mario 64 (or it's remake) , 
 I was at least expecting a decent platformer. That's exactly what i got. Content to be a C student, 
 the game breaks no new ground, although it doesn't do a lot of things extremely bad. One major 
 complaint is that the platform elements seem like an afterthought, as they are slightly underwhelming. 
 The minigames, however, are much more interesting for the most part. I got lightheaded from blowing 
 into the mic during the flying minigame, and I must say I enjoyed it. Other games make use of the 
 unique DS features. At the bottom of the barrel are the terrible racing minigames. The controls 
 are not tightened up nearly enough to prevent multiple (and I mean multiple) retries. It gets rather 
 boring, and I'd have prefered it not be required to progress through the game. The graphics are 
 pretty detailed, and look a step above N64. The game has an earthy color pallette and it fits the 
 game well. My only complaints are the lack of ambient life in the levels and the flat surfaces. 
 The music and sounds give of a jungle type of feel. All in all, not bad, but not worth writing 
 home about, unless, that is you are still living at home. In that case, write home because it won't 
 cost you a thing. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: LasPlagasHope
Rating: 6.3
Date: Jul 19, 2006 10:49 am PT
Review:  Tak is one of those games that just seems brocken like there is a good game under the rusted careless 
 mess it is. For exaple the 3d grapics are nice but the camera angles are a mess. The enemies look 
 like a a 3rd grader made them. And the power upgrades are not that noticable. While the platforming 
 is nice is some parts the racing game games on the other hand suck it like trying to drive while 
 blind flonded. The only good part about this game are the mini games they are alot of fun to unlock. 
 And play becuase some of them are great ti kill the time with now i would say rent this game but 
 if you want to play the mini games you have beat the game but i wouldnt say play it so maybe you 
 should just drop it or borrow it from a friend so sorry guys i give this one a pass. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: HisBrother
Rating: 8.3
Date: May 20, 2006 4:14 am PT
Review:  First off this game really shines in its graphics! The graphics are awesome! The levels are so big 
 yet the graphics can stay solid without lagging the game!
  
  Tak is a really great game! Its filled with surprises, uses the DS features perfectly and is really 
 addictive! The enemies are at first easy to get you started but as you progress new enemies are 
 unveiled and the game gets difficult.
  
  Before you start your adventure the game starts off with an in game tutorial explaining how to 
 control each character and the cameras. Oh yes you heard me write each character. There are 2 characters 
 to be controller in this game, Tak and Lok. Tak is a fast characters. I ended up using him the most 
 in the game. Lok on the other hand is slower but he packs a punch. Loks strength makes up for his 
 speed.
  
  The mini-games throughout the game are saved to the mini-game folder on the menu and provide excellent 
 replay value. There is also a mini-game called shaman games which is exactly like Pokemon Trozei... Which 
 practically means there is no reason to buy Trozei. The mini-games are fun and make use of the 
 DS features really well.
  
  In closing comments this game really provides great fun but it is too short. The adventure might 
 be puzzling and take you a while to figure out where is where but its still too short. It will give 
 you 3 hours of gameplay at most in the Juju Challenge. The graphics really make this game shine! The 
 terrain is huge and beautiful and doesn't use cheap alternatives to make things look good such 
 as making trees look like cardboard which im pretty happy about. All in all, you should buy this 
 game if you love adventure and love using the DS features. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: frankeyser
Rating: 7.3
Date: Feb 17, 2006 9:31 am PT
Review:  this game is pretty straightforward. point a to point b with a little bit of exploration. but it 
 is a nice distraction while it lasts, which is for about three hours.
  the only part of the game i hate and i mean hate is the kart racing. i know you cant compare all 
 kart racing to mario kart but hey it can be atleast half as good. even once you have increased 
 your karts stats it still does not handle well. it feels like the only way it could have been fun 
 is if all the race tracks were straight shots. luckly you dont have too many of these.
  my only other complant about the game is the sound. or lack of sound that is. the music and sound 
 effects found in the game form spalshing water nosies to bird nosies all sound good. but there 
 just is not much of it and no voice at all.
  the game is gorgeous by ds standards. it puts mario 64 to shame that is for sure. great draw distance 
 and a great level of detail. not too much exploring to do but the straightforwadness keeps the 
 game from getting boring. the mini games i personally had fun playing. especially the chicken suit 
 mini games where you have to blow in the mic to keep your character afloat.
  i got this game on sale for 15 bucks and if youc an get it for the same price it is worth it. even 
 my current gf enjoyed playing it through which is a big deal due to her lack of interest in games. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Yagami-Iori
Rating: 7.5
Date: Feb 13, 2006 10:07 am PT
Review:  This is my first Tak game, so as to how they have played before, is beyond me. But from what I 
 have read, Tak has always been a decent platformer, but nothing that truely makes it a must-have 
 game for everyone's library. But I just got the game after it had taken a dip in price to 20 bux, 
 making it, especially for that price, a great game to pick up.
  
  Gameplay- 7- The platforming is decent and without some of the added features, I would have gave 
 this game just a 6. But what really makes this game fun is, not the racing, but the mini games 
 that are thrown in throughout the game. These little extras ingame (which can also be played in 
 a seperate mini game area) really add that little some extra to the game to make it stand out.
 
  
  Graphics- 8- This is one of the better games, as far as actually using the DS' 3D grphics. Good 
 to see it.
  
  Sound- 6- Its decent, nothing that sends you packing for the headphones, but nothing that would 
 be missed by doing so, either.
  
  Value- 8- Minigames that can be played & beaten for a higher & higher score are always good for 
 replayability
  
  Tilt- 8- Good, not the best, but with the minigames, it deserves a little extra credit 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Cool_Grant
Rating: 7.5
Date: Dec 27, 2005 9:30 am PT
Review:  TaK: The Great Juju Challenge is a perfect title to what it is. It is about Tak and his adventures 
 during the Great Juju Challenge, and it finally made it to the DS. 
  The gameplay is pretty good. You mainly use the D pad to move Tak or Lok around, but there are 
 also levels where you use the stylus to block Tak while he is on a rhino. But there are also racing 
 levels that are very hard to master. The controls are a little unresponsive and stiff. 
  The Graphics are very good for the DS. Everything is in 3D so you really get the feel for the environments.
 
  The sound is good but never great. It has smashing sounds, music, and splashes, but you never 
 feel its fantastic.
  The quest is a little short and you might get done pretty quickly, luckily there are mini games 
 that are pretty fun you can play at the menu.
  The new Tak is really what it wants to be. A 3D platfromer that you can enjoy on your portable 
 system, so go ahead and buy it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Bugatti111
Rating: 8.8
Date: Nov 25, 2005 6:27 pm PT
Review:  Tak 2 is possibly one of the bets games out right now for Ds. However, the adventure mode is too 
 short. My cuzin, who is a complete Sonic freak, said he beat this game in only a few hours. Whic 
 lol is only a days worth of playing. Tak is proabbly lolo though has tyhe best graphics for DS 
 available right now. However this game is not worth just buying a DS for it. But is still REAL 
 GOOD. And io meanit . Also Tak has retty good 3d mini games. My favortie is most like lly kart 
 racing. Hey if you like this game, i would recommend Sonic Rush. It received a 8.4 from gamespot 
 and it was well deserved. Alright then. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
