-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Tamagotchi Connection: Corner Shop 2
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/ds/strategy/tamagotchiconnectioncornershop2/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 Good sense of style and oddly appealing character design.
 catchy music.
 the minigames make great use of the touch screen and are fun at first.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 There are only 12 minigames, and many of them are similar.
 very little challenge or reward to keep you playing.
 caring for your Tamagotchi seems pointless.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Nov 28, 2006
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 6.7
Critic Score: 5.9, 10 Review (s)
User Score: 6.5, 78 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Namco Bandai Games America
Developer: NanaOn-Sha
Genre: Strategy
Date: Nov 14, 2006
ESRB: Everyone

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Corner Shop 2 has an appealing look and minigames that are fun at first, but the gameplay quickly 
 wears thin because there's nothing to keep you playing. 

  If you're looking for a collection of touch-screen minigames with colorful graphics and cutely 
 bizarre character designs... well, you can take your pick on the Nintendo DS at this point. Not 
 to be discouraged by the plethora of like titles, publisher Namco Bandai Games is adding yet another 
 minigame collection to the DS library with Tamagotchi Connection: Corner Shop 2. Once again, you 
 can purchase and operate a number of different stores where you do things like design cakes, wash 
 cars, or make sushi. You do all of this with the goal of earning Gotchi points that can be used 
 to purchase clothes, accessories, and snacks for your Tamagotchi partner. The game makes great 
 use of the touch screen, which, combined with the almost sickeningly cute graphics, makes Corner 
 Shop 2 an entertaining little diversion. But once you've played each of the minigames for a few 
 minutes, you'll have seen all the game has to offer, with very little challenge or reward to keep 
 you coming back for more.  

          The Tamagotchis are undeniably cute in a deformed kind of way.     

  In Tamagotchi 
 Connection: Corner Shop 2, you start out by choosing one of three creatures to be your partner. 
 Each creature has a unique personality, but the partner you choose is only superficially relevant 
 and won't change the gameplay in any way. Once you've chosen a partner, you learn that you've just 
 won 10,000 Gotchi from the Tama Lottery. Your partner encourages you to use that money to purchase 
 shops at the Tama Mall so that you can turn your windfall into a persistent source of income while 
 simultaneously providing essential services to the residents of the town.  

  There are 12 shops in the game, but eight shops are locked at the beginning of the game. Each shop 
 is a minigame that you can play to keep customers happy and earn Gotchi points, which can be used 
 to buy new shops and care for your Tamagotchi partner. All of the minigames use the touch screen 
 exclusively and play very similarly, although they vary in theme. In the cake shop, customers will 
 come in and order a specific cake design, which you'll see pictured on the top screen. Using the 
 stylus, you then have to create that same design by choosing a cake mold and type of batter, drawing 
 on the cake with icing and cream, and placing such toppings as berries and mushrooms on the cake. 
 In the flower shop, you have to fulfill customers' orders based on the size and color of bouquets 
 they request. In the sushi restaurant, you have to look at what type of sushi the customers want, 
 put together the rice, wasabi, and topping in the right order, and place it on the conveyor belt 
 where it will be taken to the waiting customer. In the bowling alley, you have to place pins on 
 the lighted spots on the lane and place the ball in the return chute after each customer bowls. 
 You can also do things like make hamburgers, care for sick Tamagotchis, act as a flight attendant, 
 place requested orders on a cart to be taken to passengers, wash and wax cars (and, oddly enough, 
 bulldozers and airplanes as well) , design clothing, and play music. Eventually, you'll unlock two 
 special combo shops: a sushi bowling alley, where you line up sushi on the lane so the customers 
 can slide down face first to eat, and a music clinic, where you play music to heal sick patients. 

  Some of the minigames are more fun than others, but each one follows a very specific pattern. Once 
 you learn the patterns, they become repetitive and mindless. Some of the minigames are so simplistic 
 that they aren't even fun in the first place. The bowling minigame is so easy that it's practically 
 impossible to fail or get anything less than a perfect rating. The same goes for the burger-making 
 minigame, where items fall from the top of the screen while you stack up a burger as the customer 
 ordered it. This is ridiculously easy because there are only four types of toppings, which move 
 so slowly that it's never difficult to make a perfect burger. Based on how well you fulfill a customer's 
 order, you'll get a rating from zero to three smiley faces. If you get anything less than three 
 smiley faces, you'll get a hint about what you did wrong. The ratings don't seem to have much of 
 an effect on the game, and it's so easy to get three smiley faces every time that the ratings seem 
 pointless.  

  After you've served enough customers in your shop, Princess Tamako will show up. After you've fulfilled 
 her order or completed her request, she'll offer to have her servants expand your shop. Each shop 
 can be expanded three times, except the combo shops, which can only be expanded once. As shops 
 expand, you'll get more customers and their requests will become slightly more elaborate, but the 
 challenge is still negligible. Although you will earn more money from upgraded shops, the money 
 soon becomes a nonissue because there are a limited number of shops and items to purchase, so you'll 
 always have much more money than you could possibly spend.  

  It doesn't help that spending money on your Tamagotchi partner feels completely pointless. Your 
 partner stands in the middle of a room, which you can decorate with tables, rugs, lamps, wall coverings, 
 and so on. You can also dress up your partner and feed it snacks, but that's the extent of the 
 interaction. Your partner will say a few canned lines, depending on what items you purchase, but 
 it won't move or interact with you beyond that. On the plus side, unlike the popular Tamagotchi 
 toys, this one doesn't require any attention whatsoever. So you can ignore it completely, which 
 is good, because that's probably exactly what you'll end up doing.  

  In addition to caring for your Tamagotchi partner and playing minigames, you can interact with 
 friends by trading pictures of cakes, bouquets, and other items you've created. You can send greeting 
 cards or just trade pictures to show off your creations. You can also purchase items and send them 
 to friends as gifts, as well as send a demo to a friend who doesn't have his or her own copy of 
 the game. These are nice touches, but they aren't compelling enough to keep you playing after you've 
 grown bored of the minigames.  

          Sushi bowling sounds like a great idea, but it's actually not all that fun.     

  Part 
 of what makes Corner Shop 2 initially very appealing is the visual style. The characters are all 
 bright and colorful, as well as extremely cute in a rudimentary, first-grade art class sort of 
 way. They're also surprisingly expressive and full of character, even though most of them just 
 look like oddly shaped blobs with seemingly random assortments of appendages and features. The 
 Tamagotchis all speak in high-pitched gibberish that somehow seems to fit perfectly with the oddball 
 visual motif. The music is catchy and quirky, providing a fitting backdrop for the minigames.  
 

  Tamagotchi Connection: Corner Shop 2 is clearly designed to be played for a few minutes at a time, 
 but you'll quickly see all the game has to offer by doing so and lose interest. Although the minigames 
 are fun at first, and the visual style goes a long way to give the game a great sense of character, 
 those things aren't quite enough to make the game worth the asking price. With more, challenging 
 minigames and a good reason to keep playing them, Corner Shop 2 could have been a great game to 
 add to your collection. As it is, it's little more than an entertaining but brief diversion.   
   
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (4 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: Jamez634
Rating: 4
Date: Jun 26, 2008 11:01 pm PT
Review:  After Tamagotchi: Corner Shop, you wouldn't expect a sequel. Let me just say this is no different 
 than the first. There are three files in this game where you can get your own little Tamagotchi 
 to work for. You get a house where you and your Tamagotchi live and can customize it when you receive 
 points to spend working in shops. You then click on "Go To Shops" to visit shops and work there. 
 You can work in a Fast Food Shop, a Florist, a Cake Shop, a Concert and more . . .
  
  Sounds good at first? Wait till you hear the rest.
  There are 12 shops to work at (you unlock 
 two of them) all by using the touch screen. When you go in you will see your Tamagotchi behind 
 the counter. The good thing is you get to meet all the Tamagotchis, as they line up to get their 
 order. They say their order and then you have to make what the want.
  For example:
  *If you were in the Cake shop a picture of the cake would appear on the top screen. You then have 
 to choose the shape that the cake is. Then you bake it and using your stylus, draw the pictures 
 (same as shown) with icing on the cake. You get marked either "Good Job" "Great Job" or "Perfect 
 Job" depending on how the picture on the top screen matches your creation.
  *Say if your customer asked for a cheese burger when you're in the Fast Food Shop, you get given 
 a load of ingredients to make it. If you, say, put lettuce in, the Tamagotchi will cry because 
 he didn't get what he wanted.
  
  How are you liking it so far? It gets worse . . .
  Once you have given the customer their order, the next Tamagotchi in line will come up and ask 
 for the very same thing. This just never ends until you quit out of the shop, and then the only 
 thing to do after that is just to enter another shop.
  You think, is there even a point? Well, there kind of is. While you're playing, a Tamagotchi called 
 Princess Tamaco will come in. If you give her the right order she will say that your restaurant 
 is really good and popular (even though it really sucks) and give you an up grade to your shop. 
 but when you've finished up grading your shop, nothing happens. So you wonder, is there a point 
 to that?
  
  Overall, Tamagotchi is a slow repetitive game that is pointless to be played.
  
  Gameplay 2/10
 
  Graphics 7/10
  Sound 7/10
  RATING 4/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mayoraldigital
Rating: 8.2
Date: Aug 11, 2007 1:50 pm PT
Review:  This game is very cute and cuddly. It really makes you feel really warm inside. Like your in the 
 middle of a nice big cinnamon roll. I became so enamored with the second one that I then got on 
 eBay and bought the original Tamagotchi Connection: Corner Shop . I quickly went through the first 
 one and then came back to play the second one. The three main characters that you get to choose 
 from in the beginning of the game are very adorable. They each have their own personalities. I 
 have played the game with all of the gotchi's and my favorite was the little sparkling eyed girl. 
 I enjoyed playing the sushi shop, the burger shop, and even the car wash shop.
  The game really gets it going when you get to open a combined shop. In the game once you complete 
 the bowling and the sushi shops you can combine them to make sushi bowling.. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dancinkayley
Rating: 10
Date: May 1, 2007 4:23 am PT
Review:  I played Tamagotchi Corner Shop 1. I got bored of it after a while, but I still picked it up and 
 played it.
  
  Soon after I saw this game in the shop and I just couldn't resist getting it! And I'm glad I did. 
 Read on!
  
  Let's start with Sound and Music. Let's face it: The music is SOOOOOOOOO catchy! I got the tune 
 stuck in my head for an entire day and it was driving me crazy. The tunes in Care Mode have changed 
 since CS1. Another difference is that unlike Corner Shop 1, if you set a tune for your main screen 
 it stays that way (on CS1 it changed as soon as you got out of care mode) . One of the tunes just 
 made my friend and I crack up laughing!
  
  The sound is alright, it's cute but can get annoying. You can easily turn the sound and Tamagotchi 
 voices off individually though so if you happen to like the tunes you can keep 'em on, and leave 
 the noise off.
  
  Graphics are great! Cartoony and quirky, they fit this game like a dream. Every character looks 
 like it's supposed to. Nothing bad here.
  
  The GAMEPLAY. The Big Bit.
  
  At the start your Tamagotchi gets 10 000 Gotchi (the currency used in the Tamagotchi world) from 
 winning the Tama Lottery, so you can now buy and open some shops! There are 12 shops to unlock 
 and activate in all. Once you unlock a shop by meeting certain requirements, you have to buy it 
 to activate it.
  
  Now time for the shops.
  
  In the flower shop, you have to make bunches of flowers and wreaths for the Tamagotchi customers. 
 In the bakery, you have to cook and decorate cakes. In the gas station, you need to fill up the 
 gas tank, wash the car, change the tires and wax it. All this is done with the stylus, only the 
 stylus. No, wait, not only the stylus! The music clinic and the concert hall let you use the microphone 
 as part of the shop's requirements, to shout things such like Woo! and Get well soon! However, 
 it doesn't matter what you say in the microphone. I once said, Hi! instead of Woo! and my friend 
 said, Hope you die! instead of Get well soon! The gameplay is just too addictive. And now you can 
 see why I have no life other than this game.
  
  As you can see this game has good value. BUY IT NOW!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!! (And prepare to get addicted, 
 but that's another story.) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sjesseph
Rating: 6.4
Date: Dec 9, 2006 11:01 am PT
Review:  I got this game and like the first one you have little shops that you have to work out to get money 
 and to open even more shops. It is pretty fun and has more you can do in this game vs the first 
 one. The graphics and sound are really good and the game play is fun for a while but after you 
 get all your shops it starts to get a little boring doing the same thing over and over again. I 
 got tired of it but my kids love the game! I would say a good game for kids but a little high on 
 the price. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
