-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Tamagotchi Connection: Corner Shop
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/ds/strategy/tamagotchi/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 Oddly appealing sense of style.
 Makes great use of the DS touch screen.
 Minigames are fun and entertaining for awhile.
 Catchy music.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 The game lacks the challenge and incentive to keep you playing.
 The shops are thematically varied, but most of them play exactly the same.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Feb  1, 2006
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 6.4
Critic Score: 5.8, 21 Review (s)
User Score: 6.9, 179 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Bandai
Developer: NanaOn-Sha
Genre: Strategy
Date: Jan 31, 2006
ESRB: Everyone

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Corner Shop is silly and fun in the beginning, but the gameplay quickly wears thin. 

  Chances are you or someone you know has a Tamagotchi lying around in a junk drawer or shoebox somewhere. 
 After all, there were about a billion of the little virtual pets sold in the late '90s. But the 
 Tamagotchi phenomenon died as quickly as it started, leaving behind a lot of clunky key chains 
 and a bit of filler for a VH1 clip show. Despite falling way off the radar, Tamagotchi is still 
 around years later, now with a new generation of virtual pets called Tamagotchi Connection and 
 a Nintendo DS game to match.  

          It's a Tamagotchi game that doesn't require you to feed, discipline, or take care of a 
 pet, which is nice.     

  Tamagotchi Connection: Corner Shop is a quirky collection of minigames starring the cutely bizarre 
 creatures from the Tamagotchi universe. Despite being based on the virtual pet license, Corner 
 Shop is not actually a virtual pet game. When you start, you can choose one of three Tamagotchi 
 to act as your partner, but the only difference between the three characters is the theme music, 
 clothes, and the order in which all the shops are unlocked as you play. You and your partner can 
 then go to work in various shops to earn gotchi points, which you can then use to purchase snacks, 
 clothes, and furniture to "care" for your Tamagotchi. None of that is necessary though, since your 
 Tamagotchi's response to these items has no effect whatsoever on the game. The entire care mode 
 is just a very basic way for you to customize your game.  

  As implied by the title, this game revolves around small stores that you can run with the help 
 of your Tamagotchi partner. You start out with only two types of stores, but you can upgrade as 
 you work in each one, and in doing so, you'll unlock new types of stores. There are 11 stores in 
 all, and working in each store means playing a minigame over and over to earn gotchi points. The 
 eclectic selection of stores includes a dentist, a beauty shop, a flower shop, a music hall, a 
 bakery, and more. Each shop has an associated task that you must complete for each customer by 
 using the touch screen. Despite the thematic variety, the tasks mostly boil down to repeating the 
 same few processes, ad nauseam.  

  The cleaner shop has you washing and ironing clothes, mending holes, and removing stains. There's 
 a spa where you have to cater to customers as they soak in a hot spring. Pictures will appear in 
 little thought bubbles above the customers' heads and you simply have to select the corresponding 
 items and give them to the customers. In the beauty shop, a customer will give you a picture of 
 what he or she wants to look like, and you then use makeup and accessories to perform a proper 
 makeover. The bakery has you decorating cakes with icing and toppings according to a pattern given 
 to you by each customer. The patterns are all simple and they tend to repeat often. The florist 
 shop is quite similar, in that you just have to select the right color of flowers, choose a wrapping 
 and a ribbon, and select a card.  

  You can also create brooches and necklaces in the jewelry shop. A customer will give you a pattern, 
 which you have to copy by placing the right stones and nuts in the right spots and then securing 
 everything using a needle and thread (no complicated patchwork to worry about; scribbling all over 
 works just fine) .  

          Finally, a game that lets you drill the teeth of cute little animals.     

  The takoyaki 
 shop has you making dumplings for customers. Once you get the process down, there's nothing to 
 this game. The only variable is the number of dumplings in each order, and otherwise all the ingredients 
 and procedures are exactly the same every time. You oil a pan, drop in some dough, sprinkle on 
 the ingredients, use a pick to separate and flip the dumplings, then arrange them on a plate and 
 top with sauce, seaweed, and fish flakes, and that's it.  

  The music hall is a bit different from the rest of the shops, and it requires you to tap pictures 
 of instruments along with a song. It's simple, but it gets dull quickly because you don't get any 
 immediate feedback on how you're doing. Instead, you have to wait until the end of the song to 
 get a rating between zero and three smiley faces.     

   

  The most interesting and fun shop is the dentist, where you have to help customers who come in 
 with toothaches, cavities, and missing teeth. You can select a drill to drill out a cavity, select 
 colored wadding to fill in the hole, and then clean it all up with a toothbrush. If you take too 
 long, the customer will start to cry, at which point you can administer a shot of Novocain or just 
 let him or her suffer. If they suffer too much, they'll leave and you won't get paid.  

          You can spend all your gotchi points on new clothes, furniture, and snacks for your Tamagotchi 
 friend.     

  There are two special hybrid shops that you can unlock by upgrading other shops. The florist jeweler 
 is a mix between a jewelry store and a florist, so you just make necklaces and brooches with flowers 
 instead of gems. The strangest store is the dental salon, where all the Tamagotchi go to get some 
 grill work done. Customers will give you a picture of what they want their teeth to look like, 
 and you just have to copy the look using various colored glazes, letters, silver etchings, and 
 accessories like diamonds or pink bows.  

  In all of the shops you get rated on your performance, but the rating has no effect on your earnings. 
 The only way to do poorly at any of the minigames is to just take too long performing a task. That 
 isn't much of a threat, though, since the customers are extremely tolerant. In fact, they're so 
 tolerant that even if you completely botch the job, or do nothing at all and just click the Done 
 tab, you'll still get paid the same. This is true for all of the minigames, and it removes any 
 sort of challenge or incentive to keep playing.  

  Most of the minigames are fun for at least a few minutes, and they do make good use of the DS touch 
 screen. But the novelty quickly wears off and you're left with a lot of fairly menial and repetitive 
 diversions. You'll eventually earn upgrades for each shop. You can upgrade a shop three times, 
 but there's not much that changes with each upgrade. You get a little bit more money per customer, 
 and you might see some slightly more challenging requests, but for the most part the upgrades are 
 only important because they allow you to open up other types of shops. Once you've unlocked all 
 the shops, the only reason to keep playing is to earn money to purchase items for your Tamagotchi. 
 However, most of the items aren't worth the time and effort required to earn the money. For example, 
 you can decorate a hundred cakes to buy a bookshelf, which you can then place in your Tamagotchi's 
 room and look at, but that isn't much of a reward.  

  The best part of Corner Store is the unique sense of style. The back of the box advertises the 
 fact that this game is from the creators of PaRappa the Rapper, and indeed you can spot the similarities. 
 The 2D characters are all colorful and crudely drawn, but they fit perfectly with the quirky theme 
 of the game. The backgrounds are equally crude and cheerful, and they all look good despite the 
 simplicity. The interface is all managed with tabbed menus. There are tabs along the left and right 
 edges of the screen, which you touch with the stylus to access menus, where you can select items 
 you need for each minigame. This menu system works fairly well, although it feels a bit convoluted 
 when you start getting into submenus.  

          The best part of Corner Shop is its wacky sense of style.     

  The sound in the game 
 is good, too. The tunes are catchy and upbeat, which is just what you need when you're drilling 
 teeth or arranging bouquets. The creatures do speak, but it's a squealing gibberish that sounds 
 a lot like the language the creatures speak in Animal Crossing. The sound effects are mostly variations 
 of the voices of the creatures, so while it sounds interesting and cute at first, it can get annoying 
 to hear the same weird noise every time you put icing on a cake or brush a tooth.  

  Tamagotchi Connection: Corner Shop is fun at first, but the novelty is fleeting. There just isn't 
 enough here to keep you occupied for more than a few hours. You can unlock and upgrade every shop 
 in the game in a few hours, and beyond that there just isn't much to do. You can link up with a 
 friend to trade gifts, and you can also let a friend download a demo of the game, for which you'll 
 get one gotchi point. If you're looking for a virtual pet experience, you won't find it here. But 
 if you just like to play with the touch screen and don't mind a lot of repetition, then you'll 
 find a few hours of light fun in Corner Shop.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (18 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: mayoraldigital
Rating: 8.3
Date: Aug 11, 2007 2:03 pm PT
Review:  This game is fluffy cream cheese. It really makes you feel really warm inside. Like your in the 
 middle of a nice big cinnamon roll. I became so enamored with the second one that I then got on 
 eBay and bought the original Tamagotchi Connection: Corner Shop . I quickly went through the first 
 one and then came back to play the second one. The three main characters that you get to choose 
 from in the beginning of the game are very adorable. They each have their own personalities. I 
 have played the game with all of the gotchi's and my favorite was the little sparkling eyed girl. 
 I finished the game in a couple of days.
  I enjoyed playing the spa bath shop, the dentist shop, and even the cosmetic dental shop.
  The 
 game really gets it going when you get to open a combined shop. If you like and are into the Tamagotchi 
 world then you will really appreciate this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sugarcandysin
Rating: 7.2
Date: Jul 23, 2007 12:27 pm PT
Review:  When I was younger, I liked Tamagotchi so I was like Hey I love the DS and I loved Tamagotchi so 
 I might as well like this game! I was half-right!
  
  Gameplay (7/10) -
  This game is about doing these little jobs for your customers and with the money (Gotchi points 
 I think) you earn, you can buy accesories for your Tamagotchi and buy stuff for them. But the items 
 aren't really interesting, and this game can get boring after a while!
  
  Graphics (8/10) -
  Cartoony and just how I remember how they looked in the past! Great, bright, 
 and cartoony!
  
  Sound (7/10) -
  The music can get really repetitive. The tamagotchi's voices sound like babbles and stuff...
 
  
  Value (7/10) -
  It's an all right game so get it if you think you'll enjoy it.
  
  Reviewer's Tilt (7/10) -
  The game's OK.
  
  -TOTAL SCORE- (7.2/10) -
  It's not bad, but it's 
 not really good either. It's fun, but can get boring after a while! It's OK, so you can try this 
 game! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: naruto914
Rating: 3.1
Date: May 18, 2007 10:17 pm PT
Review:  Well, I was one of the poor losers who bought this game, thinking it would be fun. I mean, running 
 your own little shops? Who wouldn't want to run their own shop? Anyway, I got home and played it 
 for 4 hours. I beat in four hours. At the beginning, you chose from three tamagotchies. A girly 
 one, a smart one, and a kinda stupid one. :) All you did was do chores for your little buddy that 
 stood around on the top screen, yelling at you to hurry up. You got the same amount of money every 
 time, no mater how sucky a job you do. Your money is spent towards buying stuff for your buddy's 
 room, but you don't get close to it and feel like it is your pet. You don't even have to feed it. 
 Gameplay: The game is fun at the beginning.... until you beat it. The game just uses the touch screen, 
 kinda annoying for button-pressers like me. Graphics: You gotta hand it to these people, they know 
 to make cute graphics. The graphics aren't exactly great, but aren't good, either. Sound: The little 
 number at the top, the 1, shows what I think about the sound. There's only 3, count em, 3, different 
 soundtracks. All of them get really, annoying. It makes you turn off the sound.
  
  Overall: 3.4 This game might appeal to others, but to me, the simplicity of this game, the little 
 play time you get, and the cheesy plot, don't really make it worth the money you pay for it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: funky_midget
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 11, 2007 6:08 am PT
Review:  Wow this game was great. I mean how could a game so pointless be so cool. It was like i went to 
 a dream and awakened at the return of Tamagotchi Connection: Corner Shop. Looks to me like Nintendo 
 finally struck gold with this one. I cant put it down i eat, sleep, and bathe Tamagotchi Connection: 
 Corner Shop
  
  My only desire is the hope of a sequel. How cool would it be to play Tamagotchi Connection: Corner 
 Shop 2. The name tickles my heart. I mean the original Tamagotchi Connection: Corner Shop would 
 be enough for my video game life but a sequel would settle my fancy. I cant find an alternative 
 to this game. It was so amazing. Not even my Neil Diamond collection could set me apart from this 
 masterpiece
  
  Tamagotchi Connection: Corner Shop... my first, my last, my everything
  
  ... Zelda eat ur heart out 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Quintly
Rating: 5.3
Date: Jan 20, 2007 1:41 am PT
Review:  Tamagotchi is a game for children, lilttle children. Even for BIG children is it fun, but then 
 you might have a brain of a 6-year old kid. The lil' dolls are cute, somehow, but they are mostly 
 annoying. That voice... the colours...- It's to pink!!! The music that you hear on the background 
 is annoying to, so i just shut down the sound. But if you heard it ONE time, it's spinning around 
 in you're head, tudutu-dutu... GRRRR HELP! The lil' shops are cute, if you like flowers, jewels... brushing 
 someone's teeth, or washing someone else... The game is very easy, and the learning curve is about 
 5 minutes. It will only take 3 days to complete the WHOLE game, so you don't enjoy it for long. 
 This game is good to keep you're lil' sister quiet, but for YOU it's boring. At the beginning you 
 might like playing it, but afterwords you're mad cause' you bought it, and spend $40 on it... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dancinkayley
Rating: 2.2
Date: Nov 23, 2006 3:48 am PT
Review:  Many great games have been released for the DS, such as Mario Kart DS and Super Mario 64 DS. Tamagotchi 
 Connection: Corner Shop never met anywhere near their standards. Want me to tell you why? Listen, 
 and listen now!
  
  Basically what you have to do is open shops and work in them to make customers happy. Okay, right? 
 Not really.
  
  The graphics are nice and cartoony. Nothing special, but I like Tamagotchi. (Sure, laugh all you 
 like, I don't care.) At least you can read everything. And I think that the graphics are decent 
 and look like what the creators thought they should be and I had never wondered what was what. 
 It was quite easy telling a Mimitchi from a Yangu Mimitchi, I am happy to say. The clear, quirky 
 style of graphics gave this a 7.
  
  The sound... talking of sound on Tamagotchi Connection: Corner Shop, does anybody have a sledgehammer? 
 Oh, all right, I'll just use that handy dandy volume switch! The music is repetitive and enough 
 to drive you through the head after about 5 minutes of listening to it. The sound effects? Brushie! 
 Brushie! Whiiiiiiiiiiir! You get the point. The voice? VOICE? Talk about Habehabehabebepti! or 
 Lalalala when your character is supposed to be saying, How many Takoyaki do you want? I turn the 
 sound off, and I highly recommend you do too.
  
  Now we've cleared graphics and sound. The BIG section. Game Play. You work in a variety of shops, 
 supposedly with your Tamagotchi partner. What does your Tamagotchi do? Take it easy and relax and 
 talk while YOU are doing the work. Work? Well, the shops have different things to do, such as making 
 jewellery, cakes, a Japanese dumpling snack called Takoyaki and drilling patients' teeth (probably 
 one of the better shops, that last one) . You do your job once. And then again. And again. And again. 
 Until finally good ol' Dad or Princess Tamako comes around and gives your shop a boost. The shops 
 have 4 different levels, Puchi, Metchi, Gotchi and Royal. When you open a shop it is at Puchi. 
 Your goal is to get it to Royal.
  
  In the salon, you have to give patients makeovers. Sometimes they ask for makeup on the cheek. 
 So I do that but the game does NOT let me place makeup where I want it. It just... doesn't appear, 
 and I don't get the best rating, which is annoying. Rating? Yes, I forgot to say. You get a rating 
 of 0-3 smiley faces, obviously the more the better. Also, you get some words: Can do better , Normal 
 , Good and Very good . I like it how it says Can do better rather than simply Bad , as Tamagotchi 
 Connexion version 1 says.
  
  Yes, there are many other shops as I've stated, but I would be typing here for ages falling asleep. 
 So I'll forget about that and just say that this game is repetitive.
  
  Now let's talk about value. Value? I spent $70 AUD on this game! Want me to say that again? SEVENTY 
 AUSTRALIAN DOLLARS! Yes. And what did I get? This repetitive game with annoying music. I suppose 
 younger children would enjoy this better.
  
  Please do not waste your money on this game, and please don't get eyestrain over this game. You 
 would be better off buying something else. Repeat. You would be better off buying something else. 
 Repeat... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: zero10999
Rating: 1.6
Date: Aug 27, 2006 12:08 pm PT
Review:  Unlike most games that involve virtual pets, such as real Tomagotchis, this game doesn't actually 
 let you take care of your pet. You choose from a selection of equally boring jobs for your Tomagotchi 
 to perform. But it doesn't actually do anything. It just sits there while you do all the work. 
 But that's where Corner Shop gets weird; it rewards you the same amount of money no matter what 
 you do. If you do a great job and make everything perfect, you don't get paid any more than if 
 you spend 1 second doing whatever it is you're supposed to do. Since this game is obviously aimed 
 at those mindless gamers under the age of 6, I think this is sending a bad message, telling kids 
 that they will get the same reward as someone else if they half-ass their job. All of these events 
 take place under some of the worst sound effects and "music" if it can even be called that, I have 
 ever heard. The only saving grace of this game seems to be the character design. It's done by the 
 people who made Parrapa the Rapper and the quirkiness definitely shows. So, back to the gameplay: 
 once you finish a job, you get money, which you spend on decorations for your house and clothes 
 for your pet... that's about it. You don't feed your Tomagotchi or take care of it in any way; you 
 barely even interact with it past being it's slave and doing its job for it. The only reason I 
 would ever recommend this game to anyone is if you are in desperate need to create busy-work for 
 your toddler/small child. I can't believe this game was rated "E" instead of "ec". Seriously, this 
 is among the worst games ever made for the Nintendo DS, stay away. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Viena-Dumpling
Rating: 7.5
Date: Feb 9, 2008 5:46 am PT
Review:  I think this game is interesting and fun!
  Not only are the mini games fun, but there's a lot you can do in the game like care for your tamagotchi 
 and unlock special gifts and items!
  
  There are 11 shops to unlock and 4 upgrades you can achieve! As you work and earn gotchi points, 
 you can open new shops that lets you play other games! There's different shop options at the start, 
 depending on which partner you choose to work with.
  
  The gameplay doesn't last for long, you can complete it in a short amount of time. After that, 
 there's not a lot of re-play ability, but overall the graphics are incredibly cute, Along with 
 matching music, if you like a game good for some quick but entertaining mini games, it's for you.
 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Nakichiel
Rating: 4
Date: Jun 20, 2006 2:48 am PT
Review:  The same people will probably enjoy the repetitive tasks in Tamagotchi Connection Corner Shop. 
 
  After you have given your Tamagotchi a name, you can pamper it with food, furniture, music, clothes 
 et cetera. But you won't get all that for free, you have to do something for them. Setting up a 
 dentist office for example. With the stylus you can choose a drill to make a hole, and then you 
 have to pick the right color for the filling to fill it all up again. You can start a tailoring 
 shop as well, where you will have to do little missions like ironing shirts with your stylus. These 
 kind of tasks will have to be repeated about ten thousand times to get all the little shops and 
 stuff for your Tamagotchi. 
  
  The visualisation and music are truly amazing, but it isn't enough because behind the cute look 
 hides a dreadfully boring game. Just like the original Tamagotchi. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: zoned_out14
Rating: 6.9
Date: Apr 25, 2006 6:17 pm PT
Review:  Gameplay 6/10: This game is ok if you have nothing better to do. I gave this a 6 because like tomagotchi 
 on DS? The game was just weird. They should of at least spent a little more time on this game.
 
  
  Graphics 8/10: The graphics were about the only thing good on this game. They had really good color 
 and animation what else can I say?
  
  Sound 6/10: The sound was just terrible with all of that murmuring. But the music was pretty good. 
 I kinda felt like they put girbals on helium and used the voices for that.
  
  Value 8/10: Well that is kinda deal 40 bucks. But when I played this I felt ripped off. So try 
 out the game from somebody the game is ok. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: FireOcean
Rating: 6.8
Date: Mar 29, 2006 2:41 am PT
Review:  This game at first has a very good appeal, but then the repetitive gameplay and the lack of events 
 defeats the appeal of the game altogether. The care section just doesn't have enought options to 
 keep you amused and interested, and the fact that you don't get anything except for the Princess's 
 congradulations after you get all the royal shops really makes you feel that getting the highest 
 level shops aren't really worth it. Also, sometimes just listening to the Tamagotchi speak with 
 yibbling and high pitched sound sometimes really puts you off so much that you have to turn off 
 the music altogether so that you can play in peace and without distraction at all. Good thing that 
 they have the English translation! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: zage212
Rating: 1
Date: Feb 23, 2006 7:22 am PT
Review:  If you want to buy this game I would highly suggest that you well..... don't. I mean Tamagotchis 
 were cool like in the fifth grade. Not one time afterwards did I pick up my tamagotchi and try 
 to play it again. Do you know why? It is because tamagotchis suck. The gameplay is far too simple 
 and if you have no one to play with you get sick of it very quickly. Aside from the original tamagotchi 
 design this game really doesn't add muck other than color. The tamagotchis themselves look for 
 the most part the same as from the original and all the extra games get old after the second time 
 you beet them. If your trying to buy something to keep your kids busy buy either mario kart or 
 wario ware. If your trying to buy this game for yourself just don't. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Suzurin
Rating: 6.9
Date: Feb 16, 2006 8:24 pm PT
Review:  Tamagotchi Connection: Corner Shop mislead most of us old-school virtual pet owners into thinking 
 that this would have something to do with pet raising and have a bit -- nay, A LOT more content than 
 it really does. Even so, I have to admit, this game is not all that bad. The graphics are adorable 
 and quirky, the music is also adorable, upbeat, and fits right into the game. Everything just screams 
 "I'm different!" in a good way. Even though this game lacks story and content, it's great to play 
 on a rainy day.
  
  Tamagotchi Connection: Corner Shop starts you off by having you choose one out of three Tamagotchi's 
 to be your partner. Memetchi, Mametchi, and Kuchipatchi. It really doesn't matter which one you 
 choose, much doesn't change. The game is actually made up of about 12 mini-games. Each mini-game 
 is a shop. Like any shop, you will have to satisfy your customers to raise your reputation and 
 recieve more customers while earning money or "Gotchi Points" to spend on your Tamagotchi. After 
 your reputation reaches a certain level, your Tamagotchi's father (you're not supposed to notice 
 who he his. Shhh) disguises himself to see how you're doing without embaressing his kid and after 
 you take care of him, he'll have you upgrade your store. This is the bulk of the game. You can 
 also buy things for your Tamagotchi. However, that really has absolutely no impact on the game. 
 In fact, the "Care" feature is so pointless, I question why it's in the game.
  
  The "Care" part of the game tries to create the illusion that you have a virtual pet. You have 
 the option of feeding and clothing your Tamagotchi and decorating its room. You can also change 
 the music. Oh, and you can tickle it by poking it with your stylus (don't ask) . There IS a multiplayer 
 feature if you have a friend with the game (which I highly doubt, but if you do, good for you!) . 
 The only thing that will carry on to the "Shop" part is your Tamagotchi's clothing, though. Also, 
 everything will need to be unlocked by having your shop upgraded. You can upgrade your shops 4 
 times. After upgrading them all, there's nothing left to do but play the mini-games.
  
  You will also start off with two shops depending on which Tamagotchi you choose. Each shop will 
 unlock another after the third upgrade. You'll get them all in a short period of time. I guess 
 thats Bandai's attempt to mix things up in the game. One big problem with this is that the tutorials 
 are EXTREMELY vague. Unless you're a very fast learner, you'll have no idea what you're doing. 
 You're thrown into the game with no explinations which will not appeal to many people. However, 
 once you get the hang of things, you'll have a hard time putting it down. I sure did.
  
  Conclusion:
  All in all, this game was a cheap way for Bandai to cash in. This game feels like 
 much, much more could have been done with it. It lacks content and in a way, it also lacks variety 
 for what it offers. You'll find yourself doing the same thing over and over again. Even so, don't 
 misunderstand. This game has many downsides, but it has one big upside. It's unique. This game 
 is not meant to be played for long periods of time, but it's still very addictive and entertaining. 
 You have probably never played a game quite like this before. However, this will only appeal to 
 those that have an open-mind and are somewhat mature and confident enough not to be embaressed 
 by having or being seen with this game (it's silly how people get so hung-up on that) . I bought 
 the game, but that's just me. I recommend that people who are interested rent this instead but 
 not with high expectations. You'll be satisfied at half the cost with the least amount of disappointment 
 this way. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DSgurl
Rating: 7.2
Date: Feb 12, 2006 10:47 pm PT
Review:  I purchased this game about a week ago. I've unlocked stores and items within a short amount of 
 time, and it isn't so hard to do so. Though the gameplay does become repetative, the idea that if 
 you do well in one business venture a new one opens, then you have a pretty good time playing the 
 game. You choose a tamagotchi, then you begin working in the two stores open in the beginning of 
 the game. The stores are a spa and dumpling place. Basically, you make the orders and tend to your 
 customers. When you've excelled, someone will lend you money to make your business larger, and from 
 there (depending on which store) you open a new business. This goes on and on in all "gotchi" towns. I've 
 yet unlock several stores, and I'm looking forward to it. This game may get boring at times, but not 
 in entirety. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DSmanlevi
Rating: 1
Date: Feb 6, 2006 1:31 pm PT
Review:  i have 1 saying for it
  
  Silence is golden, duct tape is silver.
  
  TOO MUCH BLABERING!!! ITS WORSE THAN THE START OF POKEMON!!! TOO MUCH BLABERING!!! ITS WORSE THAN 
 THE START OF POKEMON!!! TOO MUCH BLABERING!!! ITS WORSE THAN THE START OF POKEMON!!! TOO MUCH BLABERING!!! 
 ITS WORSE THAN THE START OF POKEMON!!! TOO MUCH BLABERING!!! ITS WORSE THAN THE START OF POKEMON!!! TOO 
 MUCH BLABERING!!! ITS WORSE THAN THE START OF POKEMON!!! TOO MUCH BLABERING!!! ITS WORSE THAN THE 
 START OF POKEMON!!! TOO MUCH BLABERING!!! ITS WORSE THAN THE START OF POKEMON!!! TOO MUCH BLABERING!!! 
 ITS WORSE THAN THE START OF POKEMON!!! TOO MUCH BLABERING!!! ITS WORSE THAN THE START OF POKEMON!!! TOO 
 MUCH BLABERING!!! ITS WORSE THAN THE START OF POKEMON!!! TOO MUCH BLABERING!!! ITS WORSE THAN THE 
 START OF POKEMON!!! TOO MUCH BLABERING!!! ITS WORSE THAN THE START OF POKEMON!!! TOO MUCH BLABERING!!! 
 ITS WORSE THAN THE START OF POKEMON!!! TOO MUCH BLABERING!!! ITS WORSE THAN THE START OF POKEMON!!! TOO 
 MUCH BLABERING!!! ITS WORSE THAN THE START OF POKEMON!!! TOO MUCH BLABERING!!! ITS WORSE THAN THE 
 START OF POKEMON!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 10outof10
Rating: 6.8
Date: May 1, 2006 6:09 pm PT
Review:  Awwwwww admit it they are so cute. In the beginning of Tamagotchi Connection: Corner shop you can 
 choose from three different pets and i'll say it again. They are cute. You take care of your pet 
 the same way you take care of other virtual pets. The different thing about other virtual pet games 
 is that it has activity games. The games are quite fun but get a little repetitive. The care for 
 your pet part is not as important as the games. These games are not perfect but i'd have to say 
 they are unique and fun. This game is from the creators of Parappa the Rapper so of course it's 
 fun. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sjesseph
Rating: 7.8
Date: Feb 4, 2006 3:54 pm PT
Review:  Ok I wasn't sure when I saw this game if I would really like it or not but I will have to say it 
 really is a lot of fun. You open shops and work so that you can make money and open even more shops. 
 You use the money the buy things for your pet and to get things for his home. I will have to say 
 I have not finished the game but it really doesn't look like it will be much longer. I wish the 
 game had more shops to open but other then that it is pretty good. The graphics are GREAT and the 
 sound is good as well. I think this is a great game for those of you who like the cute games and 
 it is a great game for kids as well. It just came out and is a little pricey right now but for 
 20.00 or under I would say go for it! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: murky_water
Rating: 2.3
Date: Feb 2, 2006 12:17 pm PT
Review:  How can they make a game so retarded looking they prob only use like 1/100 th of the ds cards space. 
 The graphics are terrible. And this game is for like 5 year old's. What is the world coming to? 
 (PS: my Aunt bought it for me.... she forgot my age) : ( So if you want a new game don't get this 
 one get castlevena, mario kart, AC: WW, or wait till metroid prime hunters comes out ... WOOT WOOT!!! 
 So if your an aunt, oncle, cousin, brother, mother, sister, father, friend, or relative twice removed 
 dont get this game for your loved one's or youll a relative 100 times removed! 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
