-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Tao's Adventure: Curse of the Demon Seal
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/ds/rpg/taosadventure/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 Lots of monsters to find and train as familiars.
 Dozens of magic attacks with some nice-looking spell effects.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 Mandatory touch-screen controls make the action feel unnecessarily slow and laborious.
 No quick-save option available.
 Dull, shallow combat.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Mar 27, 2006
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 6.1
Critic Score: 5.2, 33 Review (s)
User Score: 7.2, 207 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Konami
Genre: Role-Playing
Date: Mar 21, 2006
ESRB: Everyone 10+

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Tao's Adventure: Curse of the Demon Seal is a simplistic dungeon crawl that is hampered by a plodding 
 pace and frustrating controls. 

  While the Game Boy Advance has plenty of great role-playing games in its library, Nintendo's newest 
 handheld has been somewhat lacking on that front so far. Konami seeks to remedy the situation with 
 the release of Tao's Adventure: Curse of the Demon Seal. The game is a simplistic dungeon crawl 
 that has the basic components to appeal to role-playing diehards, but it is too tedious for anyone 
 else.  

          What's an RPG town without a huge tower full of dangerous monsters?     

  Tao's Adventure: 
 Curse of the Demon Seal takes place almost entirely in the town of Mondominio. In the center of 
 this town is a massive tower where a magic seal holds a menagerie of nefarious nasties. You wouldn't 
 think a tower full of monsters would do much to promote tourism, but it turns out the monster eggs 
 collected in the tower are worth big money, which is enough to prompt hunters from around the world 
 to take their chances in the tower with the hopes of nabbing the rarest of rare monster eggs. One 
 day during a particularly bad storm, the Monster Tower is struck by lightning, which breaks the 
 magic seal and unleashes all kinds of evil creatures that proceed to run amok and wreak havoc on 
 unsuspecting people all over the world. One of the places hit by the monster attacks is the island 
 of Bente, where a race of magicians peacefully resides. These monsters turn most of the residents 
 to stone, leaving only a young boy named Tao and the Bente elders to come up with a plan to save 
 their friends and families. Turns out the elders are all pretty worthless as heroes, so Tao takes 
 it upon himself to travel to the Monster Tower and procure a special monster egg that will return 
 the Bente folks to normal.  

  Luckily, just before this calamity struck, Tao learned how to wield powerful magic using the technique 
 of air spelling, which involves drawing symbols in the air to conjure up all sorts of elemental 
 blasts, curative auras, and more. The whole air-spelling thing is simply a thinly veiled excuse 
 to make you use the touch screen on the Nintendo DS, which you'll have to do a lot of in this game. 
 In fact, Tao's Adventure relies almost entirely on touch-screen controls. You can play the game 
 without ever touching a button, although you can use the D pad to move around if you prefer to 
 not use the onscreen arrows to move. Once you get used to it, the control scheme is mostly functional, 
 but since you have to touch small, sometimes unresponsive buttons, wait for new input screens to 
 load, and draw squiggly lines every time you want to do  anything , the game requires a lot more 
 effort than is necessary for what is a fairly standard dungeon crawl. It would have at least been 
 nice to have an option to use the buttons to navigate the menus, because the novelty of the touch 
 controls wears thin very quickly.  

  The bulk of the game takes place inside Monster Tower, where you have to work your way from floor 
 to floor killing enemies and collecting eggs and assorted treasures. Each floor is basically a 
 floating maze full of blocky geometry, but the levels do look fairly detailed and interesting, 
 especially in how the levels vary slightly in theme from one to the next. The monsters and characters 
 are colorfully detailed as well, which makes each level feel at least slightly distinct. As you 
 ascend the tower, the monsters get progressively tougher, and every fifth floor you have to face 
 a boss monster. The levels start out fairly simple, but later in the game they do start to pose 
 a decent challenge as you try to figure out exactly how to navigate the labyrinthine walkways to 
 get to the exit door.  

  While in the dungeon, the game plays like a cross between a turn-based and real-time game. For 
 each move you make, each enemy makes a move. When there aren't any enemies around, you can run 
 about as freely as you would in an action RPG, but when you're in the vicinity of an enemy, you 
 have to plan your actions wisely. Moving, casting spells, striking enemies, defending, and using 
 items each take a turn to perform. More often than not, you can simply run up to an enemy and start 
 swinging, and you'll end up killing your enemy in one or two turns. The result is a boring tit-for-tat 
 exchange that blends the worst of two worlds -- lacking both the speed of an action-based system 
 and the strategy of a turn-based system. Aggravating the situation is a terrible save system that 
 requires you to exit the tower and return to the inn in town every time you want to save your game. 
 There is no quick-save option available, which is absurd for a handheld game such as this.  

  You can use magic spells in combat, but they require you to open up the menu, wait for the casting 
 screen to load, and then draw symbols from memory, which takes a lot longer than simply using physical 
 attacks to defeat your enemies. Furthermore, the magic spells are relatively weak and consume magic 
 points, so they aren't all that useful. There are more than 40 spells in the game, though, and 
 the high-level spells are at least worth casting a few times to see the accompanying visual effects. 
 If you want, you can forgo magic altogether and just use a sword, which is certainly easier but 
 makes for especially dull battles.  

  You don't have to face the perils of Monster Tower alone, because you can summon monsters to lend 
 you a hand -- or mandible, or claw -- in battle. When you find monster eggs, you can take them to a 
 shop in town and have them appraised. Once you have an egg appraised, you can take it into the 
 tower and hatch it. You can then summon a hatched monster to fight alongside you in battle. You 
 don't have direct control over your familiars, and their intelligence is fairly limited, but they 
 at least manage to stay out of the way most of the time. Occasionally, your familiars will attack 
 of their own volition, but usually they follow you around and attack anything that you attack. 

          The levels of Monster Tower are pretty big, and they get fairly complex later in the game. 
     

  Tao and his familiars gain experience as they battle in the tower, eventually leveling up and getting 
 much stronger. Familiars can be trained in the coliseum in town. In true Pokmon rip-off fashion, 
 you can take your monsters to the coliseum and battle against other monsters. These battles are 
 one-on-one, five-minute matches that play out according to a simple rock, paper, scissors system 
 that determines the strength of each attack. You can play coliseum matches against computer-controlled 
 opponents, or if you have a friend with a copy of the game, you can pit your monsters against each 
 other. You can also trade monsters with your friends if you are so inclined.  

  The good news is that if you do manage to get into Tao's Adventure, there's plenty to keep you 
 occupied. There are dozens of floors to explore, treasures to find, spells to master, and monsters 
 to collect. The problem is that Tao's Adventure is too slow and unrewarding to make you really 
 want to spend the 30-plus hours it takes to complete the game.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (19 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: Albloutant
Rating: 6.2
Date: Aug 14, 2007 11:59 am PT
Review:  This is NOT a great game in my opinion. The story was interesting at first, but it was SLOW getting 
 to the tower.
  
  It needed something else to make this game just a little more enjoyable. The learning curve was 
 definetly correct (about 30 min) , but it also required a bit of memory I believe in terms of the 
 spell design. Sure, it was more or less based off one basic symbol and then added one line across 
 it to signify that it was indeed a level X spell.
  
  All in all, slow to get into, interesting gameplay, story line was fine at first, but got annoying 
 afterwords. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Ragnorok101
Rating: 6.7
Date: May 13, 2007 4:07 pm PT
Review:  Im disapointed with this game. The cover makes it seem cool and so does the summary on the back, 
 but I wish you could go thorugh all kinds of towns before you actually made it to the Monster Tower 
 . This game needs to totslly redeam itself so there should be some kind of sequal. WITH A LONGER 
 AND MORE INTERESTING CLINGING STORY LINE! If it had a sequal with controls that werent so slugish 
 and a little faster, they would see better results. The whole RPG'ish, give the hero a name thing 
 is cool. That makes the player feel like there actually in the game and stuff (if you eneter your 
 own name) , but i dont think people would want to go to this world. Its the same routine over and 
 over again, kinda like Final fantasy and POkemon game play with the whole taking turns thing. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: HellSin69
Rating: 7.3
Date: Jan 2, 2007 11:50 am PT
Review:  Well for starters lets just say this. I got this game at GameStop for 13.99 used. And new is 20.00. 
 For some fun RPG gaming you cant beat that price. Lets move onto the review.
  
  Gameplay:
  All-though the cheesy spells that force you to use the touch screen, you dont have 
 to use spells. I in-fact use swords in this game and they work just as well as any spells. Heres 
 the break-down. You go to a huge tower with lots of dungeons, lots of monsters, lots of secrets. 
 Sounds fun? Lets keep going. You can tame/charm monsters by getting there eggs and leveling them 
 up and later evolution. You cna equip other stuff to Tao like swords, wands, etc. A real let-down 
 is there is no quick save or anything. And when you die... you die.. game restarts and you start 
 were you last saved at. Alot of cool spells to do stuff with but, the touch screen ruins it all. 
 Alot. A real run-down in this game is the clunky controls that really make the gameplay go down 
 low.
  
  Graphics:
  Well its a nice 3D game for the DS, seeing that most RPGs for the DS are 2D. Nothing to awe about 
 but the spells are flashy looking and look nice. All the models for the monsters seem pretty good. 
 Its a stable 3d game thats nice to look at. I enjoyed most of the animations from the spells and 
 the AI models look good to. The cut-scenes are kinda trashy because you can notice how quickly 
 they put them together and how crummy the 3D really is.
  
  Sound:
  I dont focus much on sound since i usually have music in my ears while im playing most game but, 
 the sound was OK. This is all i have to say.
  
  Value:
  When this game came out it was a waste of money, unless your a hard-core dungeon crawler, RPG person. 
 But now for just a lil cash you can get it and plus, RPGs are RPGs no matter what form. I really 
 have fun playing this game. Its perfect for long car drives or when your just bored of all those 
 other games. Go back and have some good dungeon crawling action.
  
  Overall:
  Alas the bad controls, touch screen gimmiks, and annoying save features. Everything else is really 
 fun. Eggs, monsters, dungeon crawling. It was worth my cash. I had fun playing this game and I 
 will continue to play this game untill anouther game interests me more. I say you should get this 
 game for the price and ignore the other people its really worth it. Thanks for reading. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: maddok3d
Rating: 2.8
Date: Dec 22, 2006 1:12 pm PT
Review:  This is the worst game i have bought for my DS, i plan to trade it in to EB games very soon... 
 I baught this game because i had'nt played a good RPG in awhile, i guess i'll have to wait until 
 christmas for that.
  
  Anywhoo... Whining about how bad it is wont make a very good review... I'll try not to make it sound 
 TOO bad because some people have different taste.
  
  The gameplay:
  The fight system is like most tactical games like Fire Emblem or Final Fantasy Tactics... Except 
 not nearly as good, a tactical dungeon crawling RPG, The level desighn is...'Creative'... Although 
 not good at all... The levels relate to a board game they're quick and simple, part of the time 
 you play you will be in a desert town running back and forward buying items with the money you 
 get from pressing A over and over to kill monsters, the spell system WAS unique so i credit it 
 for being first to use it.
  There is no way to organise these items you buy wich can be very frustrating.
  There is a monster 
 catch and seal thing, ripping off of Pokemon, to help your party.
  
  Sounds: Music similar to Final Fantasy 7 and sound effects are simple squeaks.
  
  Story: Dull.
 
  
  Graphics: 3D I guess i cant complain to much - average, but then again, its not very good 3D.
 
  
  Multiplayer: Ok, this is perhaps the worst part, its basicly button mashing to a terrible cut scene 
 , you pit 2 monsters against eachother, then button mash, then it ends.
  
  Replay value: There is none.
  
  In a nutshell: It's like getting smashed in the head with a 
 brick tied to 7 trucks and a bus full of fat guy's. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: _AbBaNdOn
Rating: 7
Date: Nov 26, 2006 6:12 am PT
Review:  This game is basically the clone of a really amazing game called Azure dreams. That would have 
 been awesome if they had cloned everything but you know how game companies do. They have to tweak 
 this and tweak that and then the new game sucks compared to the old version.
  
  The first knock against this game is the controls. It uses the styus pretty heavily. It ends up 
 really slowing down the gameplay which is bad. Climbing the Tower can take hours anyways and having 
 to make several corrections in movement and stuff while playng is just going to prolong that and 
 take away from the fun.
  
  I all other regards this game is worse than azure dreams and doesnt do it justice. You have lost 
 your strategic control over your monsters, the tower does NOT have randomly generated floors (I 
 cant for the life of me figure out why they took that out) , All your monsters get stored in a book 
 instead of in a monster hut (although this lets you summon them all during a climb you dont get 
 to see them unless your in the tower) , Your bonus's your equipment gives you is invisable so even 
 though you can improve your gear you cant see the results, There are traps that degrade your equipment 
 even if your using diamond shields and gold swords (which were degrade proof in azure dreams) . 
 The dungeons are a little more complex with switches and secret doors, but who gives a crap because 
 the layouts never change. The main character is hated by everyone in town initially and it limits 
 the stores you can visit and then as you climb the tower anddo quests for people they begin to 
 warm up to you but nobody is telling you that and you are just left to blunder around on your own.
 
  
  This game does let you power up your monsters though and unlike in the first one your hero gets 
 to keep his levels so atleast if you do the hard work you will get some kinda pay off.
  
  Azure dreams for the ps1 is one of the greatest games ever and if you like monster rasing games 
 you should try like hell to a copy. This game is but a very poor shadow of its predecessor and 
 should not be used to guess what Azure Dreams was like. My final opinion is that this game isnt 
 worth owning unless you can get it for CHEAP. Otherwise you should spend the money to hunt down 
 Azure Dreams for the ps1. Words cant express how great that game was. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: swordmaster33
Rating: 7.3
Date: Oct 29, 2006 9:10 am PT
Review:  taos adventure: curse of the deamon seal is a cool rpg game for the ds, it&acute; s not really that 
 bad... well i liked it but maybe YOU won&acute; t.
  
  Your&acute; re a boy who wants to save your people in your island. You will learn some useful spells 
 in the beginning and set off on your journey. As you arrive to the monster tower city you save 
 a kid from a monster become firends with his father. You will have to save progess in the inn from 
 time to time and buy weapons sell eggs if you want and buy accesory&acute; s if you want. First 
 you start on the first stage 1 of monster tower and battle monsters which you can recruit by getting 
 the eggs in stages. Graphics are 3-d and quite good for the ds. storyline is very dull and repetition. 
 well... i only recommend this game to people who love lost magic like me if you do then buy this 
 game and give it a try it&acute; s not so bad. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: RpGamerzzz
Rating: 3
Date: Jul 31, 2006 1:12 am PT
Review:  Boy, was this game boring!! I bought the game and was caught up with it in the beginning with the 
 story but after that, PURE B-O-R-I-N-G-N-E-S-S, all you do is stay in one town with some 50 story 
 tower... sounds fun "50 floor tower? lots of gameplay!!" ya right!!! i got to the second level 
 and then returned it for boringness = ( the gameplay is dull, slow, and boring. Why? well you do 
 get to cast spells by drawing symbols on the touch screen but it causes long long battles. You 
 get to collect monsters and such but i didnt get there because i couldn't stand the boring gameplay. 
 And lastly, no quick save option. It actually took me awhile to learn how to save cause it doesn't 
 tell you how to in the manaul! bad game dont buy!
  
  Pros: Many spells, good graphics.
  
  Cons: Dull and shallow combat; barely and storyline
  
  my recommendation is buy lost magic 
 instead! better gameplay, better story, better value!
  
  Gameplay: 
  
  Graphics: 
  
  Sounds: 
  
  value: 
::::::

::::::
UserName: seun_07
Rating: 8.9
Date: Jul 12, 2006 4:07 pm PT
Review:  Well, some people like this game and some do not. I think this game is really good and deserves 
 a gamespot rating of more than 6.1.
  
  At first, I did not want to but the game because of the rating, however I could not find any other 
 RPG and I went for this one. I am sure glad I did.
  
  For those who have played pokemon on the gameboy, in my opinion, this game is pretty much like 
 pokemon or legend of the dragoon. Although everything takes place in one city, there is a lot to 
 keep you occupied. Most of what you do takes place in a tower in the center of the city. The tower 
 has lots of levels so the its not like the games is short.
  
  The game has a good storyline and plot (in my opinion, this is one of the important factors that 
 make a great game) . The graphics and sound are also very good.
  
  One downside to this game is that you cannot save wherever you are, so each time you want to save 
 your progress, you have leave where you are and go to a specific location in the city to save.
 
  
  The gameplay is very engaging, it doesnt take long to learn the controls and once you get the 
 hang of it, the game is just fun to play.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: GeekyDad
Rating: 7.9
Date: Jul 3, 2006 7:05 pm PT
Review:  Review Title: Tao's Adventure: Curse of the Poor Reviews
  
  There's something strangely satisfying about discovering a gem-of-a-game that no one else likes. 
 Almost all the critics panned it, and many folks overlooked it because of that. However, Tao's 
 Adventure: Curse of the Demon Seal has ultimately confirmed my belief that reviewers, though often 
 helpful, don't know me or my taste and can oftentimes (too often) be very, very wrong about what 
 I'll enjoy...
  
  Story:
  
  In the city of Mondominio stands Monster Tower. The city has been home to monster hunters who have 
 thrived for many years on the abundance of monster eggs found in the tower. One day, during a great 
 storm, lightning strikes Monster Tower and damages the seal that had kept the monsters contained 
 within...
  
  Meanwhile, on a distant island called Bente, a boy named Tao and his family live peacefully until 
 their small village of Air Spellers (those who cast spells by forming magical runes in the air) 
 is attacked by monsters that escaped from Monster Tower during the aforementioned storm. All but 
 Tao and four others are turned to stone. Tao, as the only surviving community member with the ability 
 to cast offensive spells, is sent to Mondominio in an attempt to retrieve an egg of those very 
 same monsters so that Bente's last remaining elder (one of the surviving four) can perform a ritual 
 that will hopefully restore their people to normal. 
  
  The opening of the game moves along quite quickly, yet manages to mix some tutorials in with the 
 story to help you get underway. Dialogue can been scarce, and ultimately Tao's Adventure proves 
 to be more of a dungeon crawler than a story-driven RPG.
  
  Gameplay: 
  
  Konami took, what may at first glance seem to be, a complex approach toward the controls for this 
 game. However, gameplay is indeed simple yet interesting. Played from the 3rd-person perspective, 
 you can move Tao either by utilizing a control wheel on the touch screen or by using the control 
 pad (D-pad) . I've found the latter to be most comfortable, but I also make use of the control wheel 
 for more precise diagonal moves during battle. You can scroll through text with the A button (or 
 by tapping - with the stylus - a DS icon that appears on the touch screen) while in conversations, 
 and toggle the "run" function with the Y button (Note: While in Monster Tower you must hold down 
 the Y button to make Tao run) . All other commands are executed via the touch screen using on-screen 
 prompts; this includes the spell-casting system. Most folks reading this review will likely already 
 be familiar with the game Lostmagic. Well, Tao's Adventure actually came out a little before that 
 game, but the spell casting is pretty much the same (as I understand it) : spells are performed 
 by drawing runes on the touch screen. It is obviously one of the more interesting and enjoyable 
 aspects of this game, and the system works great, in my opinion. Runes do not have to be perfect, 
 but if they are not drawn accurately enough, then the spell will not work; it makes for a really 
 exciting battle, and the more you level up the more spells you attain.
  
  "Tao's adventure" takes place almost entirely within the confines of Mondominio, and even more 
 precisely within Monster Tower. Battles in Monster Tower are an interesting mix, being somewhat 
 real-time / strategy; but ultimately it is a turn-based battle system. The floors (there are 40 
 floors total in Monster Tower) are designed almost grid-like, and as you approach a monster, for 
 each movement you make (whether it be to take a step or use an item, etc.) the monster is likewise 
 afforded a movement. I was so relieved when I finally played the game and got into the actual battling, 
 not being sure beforehand if it would be something I would enjoy. My main fear was that it would 
 perhaps be too easy or tedious (which was the case for me when playing Final Fantasy II from the 
 Dawn of Souls title for the GBA) . Such was not the case here, and battles are very enjoyable. You 
 never have to enter a "battle screen" - Tao's Adventure maintains a Diablo-esque approach that 
 keeps your travels moving along smoothly - and there is a very good balance to the game overall. 
 Playing has, for me, become mildly addictive.
  
  As with most RPGs, you must complete certain side-quests that move the game toward its ultimate 
 conclusion. To help you along on your journey, you will have the aid of a talking (in the form 
 of text - there are no voice-overs) monster named Petcho. You'll encounter him early on in your 
 adventure, and though controlled by the AI he is a huge help to you. Additionally, you will find 
 monster eggs inside Monster Tower; you can sell them for money to use for buying weapons / equipment, 
 or hatch them and use the hatched monsters also to aid you in battle. 
  
  One other notable aspect of Tao's Adventure is the coliseum. There you can compete your monsters 
 against other monsters (ala Pokemon) , either AI-controlled or if you have a friend (or foe) who 
 also has the game you can battle them via local wireless connection; or perhaps you want to trade 
 monsters with them - you can do that too. The coliseum battles aren't terribly exciting, but they 
 are a fun distraction and allow your monsters to gain experience (and gold) that will help them 
 level up.
  
  Graphics: 
  
  Visually speaking, the game is quite aesthetically pleasing. The graphics are perhaps not the absolute 
 greatest that I've seen on the system, but they do place right up there with the very best that 
 the DS currently has to offer. Frame-rate motion is very smooth (with occasional slowdown at the 
 end of battles) ; spell effects are entertaining; and the overall colors and design of the game 
 are sure to please even the most jaded graphics snob like myself. There are some moments when camera 
 views can prevent you from seeing an on-coming monster (usually this occurs upon entering a new 
 room within a given floor of the tower) , but it has not at all hindered my experience of the game; 
 I can pretty much chok that up to the notion that you shouldn't necessarily always have the ability 
 to see monsters coming, since entering a new room should contain some element of the unknown. Think 
 I'm being too forgiving here? Well, incorporating real-life physics into a video game can sometimes 
 be a good thing. 
  Additionally, I would have enjoyed seeing just a little more detail to the character faces in the 
 3D perspective, but overall I'm quite satisfied with the graphics and look of this game.
  
  Sound: 
  
  I guess it could be said that the music is not very original, but I truly can't 
 stop humming some of the themes around the house. To me they're quite memorable, and with ear-buds 
 you can more effectively enjoy the music in stereo. The sound effects all work quite well - some 
 are perhaps more pleasing to the ear than others - and there's a good mix between the music and 
 sounds. You can make adjustments to the sound effects and music levels, but I find the default 
 levels very doable.
  
  Conclusion: 
  
  Tao's Adventure: Curse of the Demon Seal perhaps faced its biggest boss battle when, upon release, 
 it came under siege by an onslaught of poor reviews. The game - though not yet out-of-print entirely 
 - can be scarcely found anywhere, and it hasn't been out that long. That's okay though (I guess) . 
 I love the game, and so do quite a few other folks. There is a small following for it - those of 
 us who were brave enough to look past the carnage that game critics left in their wake. But I personally 
 think it's a game that deserves a chance. Even with the surge of great RPGs ominously marching 
 forth on the horizon, I hold Tao's Adventure to be a worthy addition to my DS collection. I bought 
 it to tide me over `til something better came along, and it ended up being "something better that 
 came along."
  
  Let me leave off by mentioning the cons of this game. No one reading this review should be under 
 the impression that it's a near-flawless title. It ain't. One definite flaw is an issue with the 
 Spell Input tab (used to execute spells) . You should be able to touch the tab with the stylus to 
 execute your spell. However, the player will have to actually touch the very outer-right edge of 
 the tab in order to engage it properly. Once you figure this out it works like a charm every time, 
 but it seems like a programming boo-boo that should have been fixed prior to release. In addition, 
 there is no easy way for the player to reorganize Tao's inventory, and it can make finding items 
 a bit of a chore (though, personally, it doesn't really bother me) .
  
  Hopefully, with the mention of these gripes as well as my other comments, I have helped to color 
 a more accurate picture of this underappreciated Konami RPG. Thanks for reading my rap on this 
 DS title, and as always...
  
  Happy gaming!
  
  -GD 
::::::

::::::
UserName: EchoStarter
Rating: 5.5
Date: Jun 5, 2006 9:26 am PT
Review:  In hopes that the DS's many features would be taken advantage of innovatively (mainly the touch 
 screen and the fact that it has two screens) , Tao's Adventure was one of the first games I bought 
 for the DS. Although they incorporated the use of the touch screen, it sort of feels like you're 
 forced to use it when you can just as easily (if not more easily) use the directional pad and the 
 XYAB buttons. 
  
  The gameplay is very simplistic. It's a little slow-paced and the battles really aren't that exciting. 
 I think the best part of the game is the beginning learning process and adventuring around the 
 land. After that, the game becomes tedious because there isn't much to explore anyway, and the 
 trivial responsibilities you have in an RPG can be a chore in this one. A few examples of that 
 would be:
  
  1. You can't arrange your inventory.
  2. You have to sell multiple supplies of the same item one... by one...
  3. There's no quick save. 
 
  
  In addition to that, the way they make the player cast spells by actually drawing a symbol to summon 
 magic is cool and innovative; but, I'll be honest, it sort of slows down the action in fights. 
 Although some people might appreciate it, others who enjoy a faster pace might not. 
  
  The graphics in universal standards are below average.
  In hand-held standards, they are mediocre 
 (since we're comparing it to the PSP also) .
  In DS standards, they're pretty decent. 
  The sound is pretty good. The only complaint I have with it is the small soundtrack. The music 
 gets repetitive. 
  
  Overall the game isn't that great nor is it that bad. I wouldn't really recommend this game to 
 anyone, unless you're really... really... bored with Pokemon and Yu-gi-Oh. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Robio_basic
Rating: 5
Date: Jun 1, 2006 12:30 pm PT
Review:  In 1998 Konami released a mishmash of a game called Azure Dreams. It combined elements of dating 
 sims, sim city, Pokemon, and dungeon crawling into one game. The results were a flawed, but still 
 enjoyable and wildly addictive game. Unfortunately no sequel ever arrived. Then recently Konami 
 released Tao's Adventure, and while it obviously takes place in the same setting and features many 
 of the same elements as Azure Dreams, they never proclaimed it to be its sequel. I now know why. 
 This game is not good...
  
  Tao's Curse pretty much dumps all the little fun side jobs like dating and town development to 
 focus soley on climbing the Monster Tower in search of the rare monster eggs. Unfortunately the 
 tower just isn't as much fun this go around. This time it's all about building your levels (you 
 don't automatically lose levels like you did in the first) , leveling up your weapons, and learning 
 new magic spells. The levels are no longer randomly generated this time either, and instead and 
 emphasis on puzzle solving to find the exit to the next floor has taken its place. Even the monsters 
 you catch don't seem to have the charm of the first one. 
  
  As far as the game itself goes, the controls are done almost completely using the touch pad which 
 can lead to problems on occasions. The music and graphics are actually quite good and are probably 
 the highpoint of the game.
  
  Some have said that the game requires putting in a lot of work to be truly appreciated. That may 
 be, but after 15 hours I couldn't force myself to play anymore. When a game is that unappealing, 
 it's just not worth it to find out how much better it can get. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: poohbear12
Rating: 7.3
Date: May 10, 2006 7:31 pm PT
Review:  Man, youd think Konami was slaughtering puppies.
  
  When I started seeing the angry, venomous, sarcastic reviews for Taos Adventure, my heart sank, 
 as I was really looking forward to a decent RPG for the DS. Not listening to the inner voice warning 
 me to keep my cash (and because I have a hefty tax refund on the way) , I sprung for a copy just 
 to see how bad it could be.
  
  You know, it isnt as bad as you might think. You just have to approach it with the correct frame 
 of mind.
  
  First, it is not really an RPGit is a dungeon-crawl through-and-through, in the fine tradition 
 of the first Diablo (NOT Diablo 2, unfortunately) . That is, you spend all of your time either in 
 a town (where you buy stuff, sell stuff, talk to people, and sleep/save) , or in The Dungeon, 
 where you hack, slash, find treasure, and buff up your character with experience as you trudge 
 through the various levels.
  
  If you see it in this light, instead of trying to see it as a version of Golden Sun, you wont 
 be disappointed. As an RPG it sucks. As a hack-n-slash dungeon-crawl, though, its pretty good.
 
  
  In a tip of the hat to the Pokemon crowd, you find eggs to hatch, giving rise to companion monsters 
 that fight and level up alongside you as you plod through the tower. There is a fair bit of magic, 
 weapons, and assorted flotsam and jetsam to discover in the game which can boost your character's 
 attributes, including a store in town that will, for a fee, increase the level of your weapons 
 and armor, in addition to the regular selection of potion-brewing armor-selling merchants.
  
  The graphics are quite good (all smoothly-running 3D renderings) for a DS game; it approaches 
 PSP-quality. Likewise, the sound is decent, meaning you won't get completely sick and tired of 
 hearing the same sound effects in battle, since the sounds they use are pretty appealing.
  
  The controls are nowhere near as bad as the official reviews make it seem. Yes, you use the 
 stylus to engage in activities, run, draw magic spells, and navigate menus. Frankly, I find it 
 much easier to use the stylus to do this than it would be if you had to scroll down through the 
 options, find the one you want, press A scroll down again, etc.
  
  What the official reviews don't make clear is that movement can also take place by using the D-pad. 
 I prefer the D-pad, running around with my left thumb, while still holding the stylus in my right 
 hand, at the ready for use. If you hit the Y button, you can get your avatar running instead of 
 walking, which significantly speeds things up, so that you can run from one end of the "huge" town 
 to the other in a matter of about ten seconds. The complaints that it overuses the stylus are unfounded. 
 Consider what might happen with the alternative: a mixture of buttons and stylus will have critics 
 complaining about how they have to constantly switch from one to the other, picking up and putting 
 down the stylus. On the other hand, if they ignored the touch screen, they'd get criticized for 
 that as well. So, the designers made a decision and stuck with it. I don't mind these controls 
 one bit.
  
  Yes, you have to return to town to save. This requirement harkens back to the earliest of dungeon 
 crawls, and it serves a very important purpose: 
  it makes dying something To Be Avoided At All Costs. With the current trend in save anywhere 
 RPGs, death becomes a meaningless concept, since you can instantly revive to whetever your most 
 recent save was, typically a few minutes ago for most gamers. 
  With Taos Adventure, however, you spend an inordinately large amount of time between saves (looking 
 for one more gold nugget) , increasing the tension of the game, especially when you are on your 
 way to one of the many bosses in the game. So what if you cant save on the fly? Thats what the 
 sleep mode of the DS is for.
  
  The reviews are generally accurate in terms of describing the flow of the game: it is pretty slow 
 and plodding, with not much in the way of story. My response to that is Have you played Brotherhood 
 of the Blade? Again, seeing it as a dungeon-crawl instead of an immersive story-driven RPG goes 
 a long way toward improving this games appeal. I find it strangely soothing to march through level 
 after level, periodically hitting a large boss who might require you backtrack to level up a few 
 more times. Forget about story. Forget about wading through wads of badly-translated speeches that 
 you wouldn't read if they were there anyway. This is pure hack-n-slash.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: bpblu
Rating: 7.3
Date: May 8, 2006 7:52 pm PT
Review:  I saw this game and I thought to myself... it might be pretty good. And I actually, was right. 
 This isn't half-bad. Unlike other reviews, though, I do understand why this one takes such abuse. 
 There are some bad points about this game, no question, but I see plenty of good things too.
  
  What really catches my eye is the monster system in the game. This is half the replay value 
 in this game: raising your monsters and having them kick other monster butt. Sound familiar? It 
 reminds me of Pokemon in a way, except a bit more shallow. The battle system reminds me of Final 
 Fantasy, except, it isn't as good. And the mandatory stylus use when fighting isn't the best idea. 
 Don't get me wrong, I'm not too annoyed with it, but it should not have been stylus only. About 
 every other control in the game you can either do with the stylus or by the buttons/control pad.
 
  
  The overall difficulty grows as you progress, of course. But some of the monsters have STRONG magic 
 attacks. That makes it pretty easy to die unless you upgrade your equipment. Of course, if you 
 do it right, it's pretty easy to trick the monsters and put them where you want, thanks to your 
 Wind attack (forgot the name, sorry) . For some reason, bashing enemies with your staff/sword is 
 usually more effective than magic... (?) Yeah... well, at least you have a decent healing spell 
 and some killer spells when you level them up! Your monster pals have magic too, but you can't 
 control when they use them... so you kinda have to be lucky. The good news is their magic attacks 
 tend to be REALLY powerful or have REALLY nasty effects on enemies.
  
  Overall, I'd say if you can, rent this first. This game is going to come down to a matter of taste. 
 If the game appeals to you, great! You should buy it. If you hate it, well, then you hate it. This 
 is one of those games that gets a lot of mixed reactions. I think it's pretty good though, and 
 if you want my opinion, you should definitely give it a try. Just don't get mad from Petcho's smart 
 remarks (haha) . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kdawg24
Rating: 3.3
Date: Apr 29, 2006 11:22 am PT
Review:  Im going to walk around town mind you the only town then ill go into the dungeon then ill go back 
 to the town then ill go back into the monster tower 
  ladeda ladeda over and over and over again what a pointless attempt at what could have been the 
 best rpg yet but a big no go from my point
  
  Graphics and sound the only good aspect out of the whole game and the controls just plain suck
 
  
  wow im back in this lame town and let me run around and around and uh this game is just all a around 
 a lame attempt at trying to make a good rpg
  
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: CanLI
Rating: 7.6
Date: Apr 16, 2006 2:20 am PT
Review:  First, I don't know why the game sites give always a lower note to the DS games which are not made 
 by Nintendo. 
  Konami, here, has made us a good RPG game about Air spellers. 
  When I see the scenario, this game let me think that there are some likenesses with the Hunter 
 x Hunter manga. 
  A simple young boy named Tao who's leaving his island for a certain goal. 
  The presence's of 
 some hunters in the game.
  The tower's multiple floors, for those who've seen the anime will remember too the great tower. 
 
  
  Well, the graphics are for me satisfactory with good 3D views. We can't have that graphic in a 
 gba rpg game. I see the pictures in websites and when I compare with the DS, there's so much differences. 
 
  
  The sounds-little musics change according to what's happening. 
  In the beginning, the use of stylus can be so difficult with the maniability circle but we are 
 used rapidly after minutes.. 
  
  The much interesting thing of the game for me is that You can do some spellers to the enemies with 
 the stylus. It's so cool and hope that all rpg's will be like that.
  
  I thank Konami for their courage to export their rpg so quickly from Japan in the Usa and Europe. 
 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: ghostku1
Rating: 3
Date: Mar 30, 2006 9:40 pm PT
Review:  This game is almost crap. Here are some reasons why.
  
  1. The spells
  The game is about spells, and the spells do less damage than your physical attacks. 
  
  2. 
 The dungeons
  Same thing every time
  
  3. The world 
  You can't explore anything but the tower and the city
  
  4. Partners
  They will not attack 
 unles next to the enemy. By the time they get to the enemy I have probably killed it.
  
  5. Controls
  Using the touch screen for everything but scenes. It is a major abuse. Whenever 
 you wanna check something you have to go up to it then pick search, ugh it's so annoying. You do 
 get used to the controls after a while.
  
  6. Gameplay
  The game is about collecting eggs hatching them and having a varieted party. But no, it's almost 
 always one egg per floor.
  
  7. Battle System
  A cool battle system. A blend of real time with turn based.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Javourman
Rating: 9.6
Date: Mar 30, 2006 10:52 am PT
Review:  This game you have to fight monsters and reach to the 50th floor of a huge tower. Also get new 
 weopons, upgrade your weopons and sell weopons. You level up so do the monster you obtain. 
  
  This game has over a 100 different items you can use to make the game more interesting and 
 also experience the touch screen magic. Buying staffs and sword and shields to get you through 
 the game. 
  
  Amazingly this all happen in one town so it is easy to know where you are. This one town has alot 
 of things to it then most game towns do. 
  
  I really suggest a ds player to buy this game and play it. The graphic arn't bad and well the gameplay 
 is easy but fun. This could be your favorite ds game easily. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nicostoer
Rating: 3.7
Date: Mar 26, 2006 7:06 am PT
Review:  Ok, in this game u start off with some spells and u will get in a city, but u can only enter one 
 tower in the whole game, this game sucks really bad because the graphics are quite good but the 
 gameplay and depth of the game are simply abysmal. If u want an RPG on your DS u will have to wait 
 because the ds is capable of so much more than this piece of crap, many people who have played 
 this game will spit on it, it's a shame that this game has been made, even if you are a hardcore 
 RPG-gamer, DO NOT, I REPEAT, DO NOT BUY THIS game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Tycerion
Rating: 8.4
Date: Jun 20, 2006 3:57 pm PT
Review:  Alright, I'm going to start off with this. This is my "RE-REVIEW" of the game... I'd already written 
 an INITIAL THOUGHT review, and now am writing a more fleshed-out, fuller, and more comprehensive 
 review.
  
  Anything you've heard about this game up until now, can ONLY be understood and decided upon by 
 you, the gamer, cause many people love and a few people hate, this game
  
  As far as RPGs go, this game could have had a FAR better hold on things.... I say that, but at the 
 same time, when you've put enough time into what GS calls a dungeon crawler, you see and find out 
 there are a lot more aspects that surround this game.
  
  Here's a quick synopsis on how it starts and where you'll spend ALL of your time. You sail to a 
 town.... the town has a tower in the center of it... the town in unexplicably HUGE... you won't be 
 able to leave the town, and at first this will seem saddening and annoying, but after a while, 
 you'll get used to it. The tower is home to many different types of monsters... and it's your mission 
 of collect and find different monsters and monster eggs. It's typical of RPGs to be played on a 
 huge scale and map, but with all the different levels of the tower you'll fight through, you'll 
 have PLENTY of maps and discovery time.
  
  Now, first things first. You do use the stylus - touch pad for EVERYTHING, you select weapons, 
 inventory items, shopping, selling, upgrading, searching, using magic, attacking, defending.... every 
 part of this game that requires you to select from a list, requires you to do so with the stylus. 
 You can scroll through conversations with the "A" button and you are able to run with the D-pad 
 while toggling your "RUN" on and off with the "Y" button. Those are truthfully the only things 
 you are able to acomplish without the use of the stylus - touchpad. Now, I'd say this is a downfall 
 and something to dock points off of the game, yet after palying for over 50+ hours, you really 
 do become used to it and it's almost second nature after the 3rd level of the tower.
  
  There is one thing about the game that does bother me and will ALWAYS bother me, and that is the 
 fact that even though this is a "semi-real time... semi-stratagey based.... semi-turn based battle 
 system" you are unable to control your AI partners AT ALL.... they do just fine when attacking your 
 opponant, but it just seems like the designers could have made it a bit deeper and better when 
 taking in the grand scheme of things. Still after you've put time into the game, even the battle 
 system become second nature. It's a little game bogging, yet at the same time they didn't OVER 
 produce enemies so that you'd despise every level of the tower you start into. 
  
  Once you understand how it works and how to utilize your companions, the battle system becomes 
 fun and intriguing... you can cast spells or just select "strike" to hit your enemy with your selected 
 weapon. 
  
  Casting spells is accomplished by drawing the specific spell design with your stylus... and the 
 game is "... forgiving" (as GS so delicately put it) when it comes to messing up on EXACT spells 
 drawing. It is a very good, if not a totally expected way of using the touch pad when playing magic-driven 
 RPGs. But in that realm of things, it does a good job. (Oh, and might I just add that the spell 
 graphics are AWESOME the higher you go!)
  
  There are a few mysteries to this game and some of them will annoy most avid RPGers, but they aren't 
 detremental to the game itself, or it's gameplay. 
  
  One of them, is a lack of a quick save option, so you HAVE to leave whatever level of the tower 
 you are on to save, and saving is a little cumbersome and tedious. Or... since it is the DS, closing 
 the screen does in fact put it in sleep mode, so there is that option if you just need a break. 
 Another mystery, is the extreme lack of information on what to do next when taking on a particular 
 sub-plot quest. You basically have to play it by ear and hope you remember the little things that 
 are said. (All of the important side quests are actually "In-story" and get accomplished whether 
 you intend for them to or not) .
  
  Other than that, the storyline is good... it's not anything spectacular, but it is good, and with 
 all the little sub-plot add-ins and "in-story" side-quests that you go on, you end up having a 
 goal to keep you motivated through-out the whole game. Plus there is the townspeople that you can 
 give items to and find ways of becoming friends with them...
  
  The two BIGGEST, and I mean THE TWO BIGGEST, down fall of this game, and the one thing that will 
 probably hurt the most when looking at this game from a reviewer's-bird's-eye-view, is the EXP 
 system and the Weapons system. You can upgrade weapons and shields and staves as in all RPGs, and 
 you are always looking for and searching for the "ULTIMATE" weapon, but even with the upgrades, 
 you aren't able to SEE what the actual weapon does to your stats, so you just go off of item description 
 and which item appeals to you inparticular (a very good way to decide on what weapon to use is 
 to look at the price, and/or sale price of said item.. the more expensive, the better) . I honestly 
 think the EXP system got lost in the cracks all together, because you don't know how much EXP you 
 have left to level up, and even when you do level up you don't see which stats go up. This is all, 
 however, counter balanced by the fact that ALL stats and weapon upgrades have a ceiling. (I won't 
 divulge the upgrade or stat ceiling... if you'd like those check the forum.... otherwise, you can 
 find those for yourself)
  
  Gameplay: It is smooth... not AS smooth as is required of most RPGs, but it does the job and it 
 does it well enough. The storyline is interesting enough to keep you tethered through-out the entire 
 game, and all the little monster evolutions and side-quests will have you coming back for more.
 
  The dungeon play is a bit slow and a one square at a time thing, but you can run through the dungeons 
 by holding down the "Y" button, and there are plenty of little puzzles for you to figure out in 
 every dungeon floor.
  
  Graphics: Graphics are GREAT and they are smooth and there is not any choppiness, unless you are 
 trying to run through a dungeon floor with lots of pick-up items laying around.
  
  Sound: I've never been a real big fan of of Handheld soundtracking, and even in this one, I'm not 
 a BIG fan, but they did better than I initially expected... I don't have much to say on this.
  
  All Around Enjoyment: This is a very fulfilling game... it's not as deep as most RPGs, like 
 I said, but it does have a niche that it found, and it is extremely fun and it will appeal to many 
 different gamers for its many different aspects of play. 1) There is the monster arena and monster 
 raising part of the game where you can evolve certain monsters and get them to become your "favorite" 
 side-kicks. 2) There is the RPG aspect of the game where you're finding and buying weapons, obtaining 
 EXP, and in so doing, learning newer and more powerful spells, and conquoring side-quests and vanquishing 
 monsters and bosses. 3) There is the adventure aspect that will keep you pushing to finish the 
 mission, to save your family and your town, along with helping out the towns people with all their 
 own personal dilemas.
  
  Ok, there.
  
  That is all I can think of to explain to you how this game is.
  
  In conclusion, it is an extremely 
 enjoyable game. It was an ambitious step for Konami, and I think they pulled it off. It isn't the 
 BEST RPG in the world, but it is not the worst by any means. In fact, I have to say of the DS, 
 it is one of the better games on the market... and is probably going to become one of the sleepers 
 that should have been great! 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
