-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Tecmo Bowl: Kickoff
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/ds/sports/tecmobowlkickoff/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 Classic Tecmo Bowl gameplay.
 Updated soundtrack and effects.
 Good use of stylus control.
 Fully customizable teams and players.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 Menu system is confusing.
 CPU offers no competition.
 No star players.
 New super abilities seem to happen at random.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Nov 24, 2008
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 6
Critic Score: 6.9, 21 Review (s)
User Score: 6.7, 45 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Tecmo
Genre: Football
Date: Nov 18, 2008
ESRB: Everyone

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
This misguided remake proves that you can never go home again. 

  Nostalgia can only take you so far. Such is the case with Tecmo Bowl Kickoff, an attempt to remake 
 the superlative Tecmo Super Bowl on the Nintendo DS. Developer Polygon Magic should be given credit 
 for successfully translating Tecmo Bowl's singular style of gridiron action to the DS, adding stylus 
 control while maintaining the classic arcade football gameplay. But a lackluster season mode, the 
 lack of any true star players (fictional or licensed) , and one of the worst menu systems in years 
 keep Tecmo Bowl Kickoff from reaching the hall-of-fame status of its hallowed predecessors.  

 
  Without the NFL license, Tecmo created a fictional league of two conferences, six divisions, and 
 32 teams with porn-star-worthy names such as the New York Hardknocks and the Los Angeles Supercocks. 
 Thankfully, those can be immediately changed using a customization tool with which you can change 
 team colors, logos, player names, and team cities. Well, "immediately" may be the wrong word here, 
 given that the cryptic menu system will have you pushing the OK button seven times to confirm any 
 changes, which may or may not actually be made. But with some dedication, you can eventually re-create 
 the entire NFL, complete with stars of Tecmo past such as Barry Sanders and Mike Singletary.  

 
           Classic Tecmo cutscenes make their duel-screen debut in Tecmo Bowl Kickoff.      

  Of course, you're changing only the names here, and when you get on the field, you'll begin to 
 notice a lack of any true star players. Whereas Bo Jackson was single-handedly able to ruin your 
 perfect season in the original Tecmo Bowl and is currently enshrined as the greatest video game 
 athlete of our time, the fictional players on this roster all begin with such abysmal ratings that 
 you'll feel as if your team consists of 11 junior-college punters. The game is not slow, per se, 
 but you'll have to heavily upgrade your players before the game speed resembles anything close 
 to Tecmo Super Bowl, and that takes multiple seasons. Given that the computer players don't seem 
 to distribute any upgrade points themselves, your team will then dominate the league. Indeed, it's 
 conceivable that you might  never  lose to a computer-controlled opponent.  

  On the field, the action is pure Tecmo Bowl, and any fan of the original will instantly get a warm, 
 fuzzy feeling inside. Teams have eight offensive plays, four rushing and four passing, and a playbook 
 editor lets you pop in a flea-flicker or play-action. If you're feeling particularly nasty, you 
 can edit other team's playbooks as well so that all running plays will be right sweeps, for example, 
 though we do not condone such chicanery. Instead of pressing a dedicated button to pass to a specific 
 receiver, you press A to cycle through intended targets, and B to throw. The stylus control works 
 surprisingly well for passing. You drag the stylus to move the quarterback and tap a receiver to 
 throw, much simpler than cycling through players while under pressure. On defense, however, the 
 stylus doesn't let you dive at ball carriers, which is a big problem because the diving tackle 
 is the only surefire method to take down a player.  

  Despite the development team having years to do so, some of the same foibles that plagued the original 
 Tecmo Bowl gameplay have yet to be corrected. Players will get credit for a catch or interception 
 even when they are clearly out of bounds. Aggressive nose tackles can run right through the offensive 
 line for easy sacks. And defensive backs will outrun the ball in the air to make an interception. 
 Gameplay has been slightly tweaked to encourage a more defensive game. As a quarterback, you need 
 to have an unobstructed line of sight to an open receiver or defenders will most likely bat your 
 pass to the turf. Additionally, 100-yard bombs from Dan Marino or John Elway have been removed, 
 and receivers on a streak pattern will simply stop when the ball is thrown and wait for it to arrive. 

  The only true gameplay addition is the application of super abilities to your players. As you play, 
 you earn points that can be used to purchase traits such as hot potato (QB will evade a sack and 
 pass to a player in close proximity) or vertical boost (jump higher to catch a ball) . Problem is, 
 the abilities mostly activate at random, and you have very little control over when you would like 
 to unleash a power-run ability, for example. They are shown off in slick double-screen cutscenes, 
 but not being able to control the timing of these moves takes away most of the fun.  

  Tecmo's trademark cutscenes, a collage of leaping bear hugs and 1980s-style high fives, make a 
 triumphant return, and they are bright and vivid on the DS. The top screen is used only as a scoreboard, 
 though it never tells you what yard line you are on, a significant problem if you are at the edge 
 of field-goal range. The touch screen is used for play calling and general gameplay, and players 
 look, move, and feel like those of classic Tecmo Bowl games.  

           The Swiss-cheese offensive line allows plenty of sacks. Too many.      

  In addition 
 to quick games against the computer or friends via wireless or the Nintendo Wi-Fi Connection, there 
 is a barebones season mode. Tecmo Super Bowl was an innovator for stat tracking, and nothing made 
 many people happier than seeing their favorite players shattering NFL records, topping rankings 
 charts, and being named to the Pro Bowl. Such pageantry is sorely missed in Tecmo Bowl Kickoff. 
 Basic offensive rankings and defensive rankings are intact, but only your team stats, not player 
 stats, are logged in the record book. All-time player rankings are a big omission here, considering 
 that many Tecmo players live to tell their friends how they rushed for 800 yards in a game with 
 Barry Sanders (not as hard as you may think in Tecmo Super Bowl -- YouTube it) . The best players 
 in the league will appear on the All-Star Bowl roster, but there's no glorious cutscene to inform 
 you of such accolades. There also isn't any continuity between seasons. Simply apply a few attribute 
 points to your players, and begin season two. There is a trade option for aspiring GMs, though 
 every trade is accepted by the computer, and there is no way to compare players' ratings in the 
 trade. This wouldn't be a big deal if we were talking Joe Montana for Jim Kelly, but with a roster 
 of no-names, it is.  

  Perhaps the only true improvement that Tecmo Bowl Kickoff makes is its audio. The quarterback's 
 cadence is not nearly as annoying as in previous games, and the accompanying soundtrack that begins 
 with each play has been updated. You can unlock the classic soundtrack as well, though it would 
 have better served Tecmo purists if it were set as the default.  

  Then again, a lot of things would have better served Tecmo purists. Though it feels great to take 
 your custom team on the road or play with a friend over wireless, Tecmo Bowl Kickoff isn't going 
 to make you forget about the original NES games anytime soon. The classic gameplay will take you 
 back, but it can only take you so far.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (4 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: Von-Dozier
Rating: 6.5
Date: Mar 2, 2009 11:10 pm PT
Review:  An old classic brought back to life, the Tecmo Bowl series was insanely popular, back when there 
 was no Madden or 2K Sports to rule the market. And what you got in those Tecmo Bowl games back 
 then, are a spitting image of what you get here, for better or worse. A graphic and engine style 
 that could run on an NES, it's simple gameplay is easy to pick up, but difficult to master. Or, 
 in other words, for a Madden generation, confusing to master. 
  
  Passing can be done in two ways. First with buttons, where tapping a button will go through your 
 recievers until you land upon one which you want to throw to, and then you'd press the button to 
 throw, which is quite different than having a reciever assigned to a button you could simply press, 
 but for retro sake, the old style remains.
  
  Secondly, and slightly easier is to use the DS touch screen. With the touch screen, you can tap 
 your reciever twice to select and throw the ball. This seems like the better of the two, but the 
 touch pad can have some sensitivty and placement issues, many times which resorts in the user tapping 
 directly on the reciever, but it never registering, which leads to a nice sack in your confusion.
 
  
  The running game is simple enough, pick the play and move with the D-Pad. Another option is leading 
 your back by dragging the stylus over the touch pad, but here, D-Pad is easier.
  
  One of the huge draws about this game is it's INCREDIBLY in-depth game editor. Obviously this game 
 has no NFL license, and it's players are randomly generated names and teams which on start-up have 
 vague associations with pro teams. But with the editor, you can change absolutely everything about 
 a team, from name, city, colors, uniforms, logo, and playbook. Which goes without saying, players 
 are fully editable as well, along with stats, and with a bit of effort, you can have a replica 
 of the NFL in no time.
  
  The replayability comes with the addition of a Season mode, where you simply pick a team and play 
 out a season. It has a simplistic trading mode between teams that can keep things interesting, 
 but for game mode depth, that's the only option.
  
  Overall, the game is very easy to find yourself picking up and playing many times throughout a 
 day, and being hard to put down. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: peterg500
Rating: 7
Date: Dec 2, 2008 12:21 pm PT
Review:  Like a lot of you out there I consider myself a first (maybe second) generation gamer. The Atari 
 introduced me to the potential of electronic football and I loved every 4bit min of it. When the 
 NES game out and Tecmo created Tecmo Bowl in 1989 I was in heaven! So reguardless of the reviews 
 I picked it up! So far I've run through 2 Tecmo seasons and edited all the teams back to their 
 1989 glory including team names and colors as well as the 1989 rosters to the best of the game's 
 ability. 
  
  The team editor is pretty robust allowing you to recreate the teams anyway you like. I decided 
 on the 1989 NFL season for sentimental reasons. But my friend decided to turn all the teams into 
 the 4A and 5A high schools he had in his state with the current high school rosters. So you can 
 do pretty much whatever you like. My only gripe about the editor is the lack of descent icons to 
 pick for the team logos. A logo creator would have been a great addition! So if you wanted a chicago 
 bears logo you could draw one in yourself rather than choose from a shark... a guitar.... or a unicorn 
 icon. 
  
  The game plays exactly like the original did back in the day. However they added special powers 
 to the star players. This is good and bad. Sometimes its adds a little drama and excitement to 
 the games. Other times it just glitches out and nothing happens. I sort of wish they skipped this 
 feature and spent more time adding useful features such as being able to call time out on the field, 
 and adding an icon on the top screen to show you where your team was on the field. Sometimes I'd 
 end up punting on a 4th and 8 when I was on the opponent's 20 yard line because I didnt know where 
 I was on the field when I selected my play. So in a nutshell they could have worked on making Tecmo 
 a more solid football game instead of adding some flashing animations for over the top moves that 
 may or may not work right. 
  
  I was really happy with the stylus controls they are a million times faster than the button controls. 
 You will notice a huge difference in response time during multiplayer mode. The person that uses 
 the stylus usually has a huge advantage. My friends and I all agreed to only use the button controls 
 when playing against each other. 
  
  The graphics are the same as the original but the sound is new but if you prefer you can swap it 
 back to classic sound mode after you win the Tecmo Bowl for the first time. I love the old school 
 animations... but I miss some of the old school moves that were replaced by the new special power 
 animations. For instance I loved watching Christian Okoye trample men in front of him while dragging 
 another one behind him for 5 yards. Or watching Marcus Allen on the raiders spin over and over 
 again to avoid tackles. Instead of that you get a pretty consistant play style from all players 
 unless the star happens to trigger his special power and animation. 
  
  Pre-season mode wasnt really needed in my opinion. I feel like they could have spent that time 
 making the regular season a little better. When you start a regular season you have to watch every 
 score box for every game played for the entire week while waiting for your team's game to come 
 up on the schedule. This gets old really fast. It would have been nice to have the game just flash 
 the score boxes up one after the other automatically until your game arrives. Instead it becomes 
 rather tedious to select out of every game. When you win the Tecmo Bowl you get more points to 
 improve all your league's teams. That gives you plenty of incentive to play through more than one 
 season. 
  
  Online modes were really nice in that after I put in all the hard work to edit all my teams to 
 their 1989 glory, I could then share those teams and their rosters with all my lazy friends that 
 didnt want to put in the effort. The multiplayer is possible when you and a friend both own a copy 
 of the game. For the most part it's pretty smooth. But every 3 or 4 games it locks up and gets 
 out of sync making you restart. The online mode is anything but smooth. There is a lot of lag and 
 glitches. For instance the "A" button didn't work in my last game preventing me from kicking field 
 goals or selecting a new reciever. There is often a lot of lag and slow down as well. Ive attempted 
 to play online about 10 times and Ive actually only finished a game once.
  
  As far as the difficulty it's simply way to easy. Tecmo has always been about building up huge 
 stats for your players on your teams. But they didnt even try to find you a worthy opponent. You'll 
 have to look to multi-player or online mode to find any semblence of a challenge. Having said that 
 an online league mode would have been nice.
  
  So in conclusion for you fans of the original Tecmo Series I think it's worth picking up. It's 
 still a fun and easy game to pick up and play on the go. But for the younger generations that never 
 knew Tecmo and grew up in the Madden era then this probably wont satisfy you much. There are to 
 many bugs and missing features to call it a solid football game. My hope is that enough games will 
 sell so they come out with a better sequal down the road. There is still a huge demand for a fun 
 fast arcade style football game. Tecmo has the perfect recipe for it they just need to care about 
 it as much as us old school players do.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: CowboyFan16
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 24, 2008 10:40 pm PT
Review:  Where to start. I think that the people who would not like the game are the ones who grew up on 
 Madden. This game is a celebration of the football game that started it all and brings back many 
 memories of the saturdays sitting in my livingroom playing NES with my brother. I really do not 
 see any problems with the game. Just sit back and let the good times roll. I personally just finished 
 editing all the teams to match a NFL greats roster for each team. Warren Moon passing to Earl Campbell 
 and Randall Cunningham passing to Terrell Owens is just to much fun for words. I am a big fan of 
 Fun, and fun is exactly what this game is. I bought a DS just for this game and don; t belirve I 
 have ever bought anything for just one item. Here is to many hours of HUT HUT HUT, and scoring 
 five rushing touchdowns a game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mi64
Rating: 6.5
Date: Nov 24, 2008 12:43 pm PT
Review:  Let me preface this review by stating that I am a HUGE Tecmo Super Bowl Fan.
  
  I honestly don't know how to feel about this game, hence I rated it a 6.5. While it feels like 
 picking up and playing with an old friend, it just doesn't seem to have that old Tecmo Super Bowl 
 magic. I almost want to describe this game as "could've been great, but ended up being a disappointment..."
 
  
  What I liked about the game:
  Classic Tecmo Super Bowl play style - This, in my opinion, is what defines the Tecmo line of football 
 games. (Except for the gawd-awful PSX version.)
  
  Familiar "in-game" interface. - Again, just like playing with an old friend.
  
  Classic SNES 
 era Tecmo Super Bowl graphics - Yes, I consider this a plus. The graphics are NOT those crappy 
 pseudo-3D graphics from TSB 2 and TSB 3!
  
  Cut Scenes - Some will disagree here, but I like them!
  
  Complete Stat Tracking - Hey! Tecmo 
 was the first Football game to do it!
  
  Player rewards - Singaling out players during a game for certain accomplishments is something I'm 
 glad they carried over from previous Tecmo football games.
  
  What I did NOT like about the game:
  Poorly laid out menus. - The menus from the original Tecmo 
 Football games were simple and intuitive. These menus just seem out of place.
  
  Stylus is totally useless. - This isn't a big deal for me, but it really just gets in the way in 
 this game.
  
  Too small! - Okay, I realize the DS screen isn't big to begin with, but they cram so much of the 
 field onto the screen that it actually makes it somewhat more difficult, particularly when trying 
 to juke.
  
  Soccer? - The game was seriously programmed/translated by Soccer fans. It had to be... The game 
 itself refers to games as "matches" and when the game is over it actually says "Match Set". You'll 
 see other little things (particularly on Stats screens) that show the game was NOT programmed or 
 translated by someone who knows much about American Football. (Punt Kick? You seriously didn't 
 learn from NES Tecmo Super Bowl??)
  
  No NFL or NFLPA license - Not Tecmo's fault. EA has exclusive rights, however, it does take away 
 from the game.
  
  Poor player/team editor. - This one blows my mind. One of the things that really could have put 
 this game over the edge is extremely underpowered. You really have very little wiggle room for 
 editing player's abilities, you can't make your own logos, you can't change league, division or 
 conference names, you can't make your own plays, and you can't move players around with ease to 
 keep it up to date... Just a real disappointment when it comes to what should have been one of 
 the best features.
  
  "Special Abilities" - I see what Tecmo was trying to do here, but I really look at this as an unneeded 
 addition. Just an excuse to add more 3D cutscenes? Maybe. The special abilities really aren't all 
 that special anyway.
  
  In closing:
  All in all, not a BAD attempt at reviving the franchise. However, is it worth shelling cash out 
 for? Probably not. Fans of the series will enjoy it, as I have, but, if you're like me, you'll 
 find that you wanted more and just didn't get it with this package. Still, as far as the series 
 is concerned, I would rate this the 4th or 5th best game in the series. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
