-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Teenage Zombies: Invasion of the Alien Brain Thingys
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/ds/adventure/teenagezombiesinvasionofthealienbrainthingys/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 Great pulp comic book sequences.
 Irreverent zombie humor galore.
 Crisp cartoon graphics.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 Level design provides little challenge.
 Bulk of the game can be completed in a short time.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Apr 22, 2008
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 6.5
Critic Score: 6.7, 31 Review (s)
User Score: 7.7, 94 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Ignition Entertainment
Developer: InLight Ent.
Genre: Adventure
Date: Apr 15, 2008
ESRB: Everyone 10+

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Like a bacon-wrapped cerebellum, Teenage Zombies is a tasty appetizer that doesn't quite satisfy. 
 

  In a sane world, teenage zombies wouldn't be very intimidating. They'd spend most of their daylight 
 hours sulking in their graves, venturing forth only at night to hang around the 7-Eleven parking 
 lot with the hope of roping older zombies into acquiring brains for them. But in a world at the 
 mercy of invading legions of alien brain thingys, the pubescent undead become a force to be reckoned 
 with. The voracious appetites that in life drove them to consume mass quantities of Cheez-Its and 
 orange soda now compel them to seek out and devour as many delectable squishy brainmeats as they 
 can. Teenage Zombies: Invasion of the Alien Brain Thingys chronicles the platforming adventures 
 of three teenage zombies in such a world, each armed with unique powers that must be used in tandem 
 to progress through levels. It's a cute, clever, competent game that is regrettably short-lived 
 and not very challenging to boot.  

  At the beginning of the Teenage Zombies adventure, you are treated to a fully voiced intro presented 
 in an irreverent pulp comic style. This serves to introduce the arch villain, the Big Brain, who 
 is a vain, self-aggrandizing cerebrum with a penchant for snow globes. We also meet our zombie 
 heroes, Zack "Half-Pipe" Boyd, Lori "Lefty" Lopez, and Finnigan "Fins" Magee. Their brain binge 
 is chronicled between levels in the similarly styled comic book segments that are often amusing, 
 sometimes hilarious, and definitely the most entertaining element in the game.  

           In this scene, the tentacled zombie vomits on the mutant sewer rats to set them aflame. 
 His motivation is his unyielding hunger for brains. Action!      

  The action plays out on the top screen of the DS, while the bottom screen displays the resting 
 places of the three zombies, your point total, and your "unhealth" meter. Only one of the three 
 zombies is in action at any given time, but you can switch between them on the fly by using the 
 shoulder buttons or by tapping their graves with the stylus. Each zombie can jump and attack (though 
 not simultaneously) with varying degrees of proficiency. Lefty can't jump high, but her extendable 
 arm allows her to reach ledges that the other two can't reach. Half-Pipe can jump the highest and 
 shimmy into small passages, but his slow attack makes him a dodgy choice in a fight. Fins' jumping 
 skills are the weakest, though he can use his tentacles to climb walls or traverse wires. His real 
 strength lies in his potent multidirectional attack, which makes him your go-to zombie when the 
 screen is thick with think sacs.  

  In addition to these unique abilities, each zombie has three specific power-ups that he or she 
 can acquire. These lend temporary superzombie powers to your gray-matter gobblers and enable them 
 to, for example, defeat hordes of brains with flaming vomit, cross electrified floors with monster 
 truck tires, or deflect a cascade of debris with a colorful umbrella. Though these power-ups are 
 mildly clever in their own right and offer a nice break from your standard abilities, they are 
 found in such close proximity to the places you'll need to use them that they fail to add much 
 beyond that.  

  In the first dozen levels, comic-style text boxes (which, amusingly, you can climb on as if they 
 were solid) appear to school you in the appropriate application of your various skills. As you 
 progress, these boxes appear less frequently, and the game makes more diverse demands on your platforming 
 skills and power-up usage. Still, given the limited number of actions your decaying trio can perform, 
 it's never much of a challenge to figure out what to do next. All three zombies move at a slow 
 speed in keeping with the physiology of all congealed-blooded species, so the platforming action 
 skews toward deliberately paced plodding and puzzle-solving rather than fast-paced running or precision 
 jumping.  

  Many different types of brain soldiers are set against you in this epic conflict. Some brains fly 
 around and shoot lasers, while some roll on tank treads and shoot lasers. Some eschew lasers for 
 telekinetically thrown objects, while some take control of police officers and security guards, 
 who in turn shoot at you (with bullets, not lasers) . Most go down with one to two attacks, though 
 this number doubles on the harder of the two difficulty modes. Even so, the challenge here is definitely 
 light. Every brain you defeat becomes a tasty unhealth booster, and death offers no penalty other 
 than a return to the beginning of the not-very-long level. Additionally, you can pick up loose 
 zombie limbs throughout levels that, when assembled in a goofy limb-attaching minigame, refill 
 your unhealth completely. A few stages toward the end are a bit trickier, but you will likely be 
 able to finish the zombie adventure in five to six hours.  

           Lanky Lefty's loose limb lets Lefty launch large leaps.      

  Interspersed throughout 
 Adventure mode are stylus minigames, which, once discovered, become playable from the menu screen. 
 These diversions are of varying quality; some could be passed off as fun, though most are a bit 
 dull and feature twitchy controls. The only real reason to play any of them more than once is to 
 earn a high enough total score to unlock harder levels of The Big Brain Challenge. This challenge, 
 laid before you by the Big Brain himself, is a series of 10 quick minigames seemingly inspired 
 by the brain game challenges that have flooded the DS market of late. Tasks include spotting the 
 humans in a crowd of brains, remembering sequences of brains, and connecting the brains in order 
 of size, as well as many others. If you ace a series of 10, you'll win one of the Big Brain's prized 
 possessions, such as his childhood beanie. It's not much of an incentive, and these stylus games 
 end up feeling like fava beans and a nice Chianti -- nice to have with a meal, but everyone's really 
 there for the main course.  

  All told, Teenage Zombies: Invasion of the Alien Brain Thingys is a reasonably fun game while it 
 lasts. The cartoon-style visuals are appealing, and the platforming action is serviceable. The 
 pervasive humor is its strongest point, but none of the same cleverness is to be found in the level 
 designs. The price tag seems a bit steep for this lobotomized action game, but if you hunger for 
 pulp zombie humor, it's a good snack.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (2 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: Cyberpixie
Rating: 4
Date: Nov 18, 2008 3:47 am PT
Review:  Teenage Zombies: "Invasion of the Alien Brain Thingys!" - DS - InLight Entertainment, 2008
  
  Zombies, I love zombies, thank you George A. Romero for making them so loveable. They're normally 
 a good laugh, particularly in games. You get to shoot them in the head, it's gory, scary, sometimes 
 even funny. On the flip side, the poor zombies don't really have such a good time and anyone trying 
 to say different is poorly mistaken. Teenage Zombies: "Invasion of the Alien Brain Thingys!" not 
 only proves this theory but seals the coffin with a billion nails, soaks said coffin in concrete 
 and buries it on Mars. Moral of the story, being a zombie sucks, full stop.
  
  Ok, sure, these are no ordinary zombies. In true 50's B-movie style, Earth has had its ass kicked 
 by an invasion of brain thingys. The humans have been conquered easily due to powerful mind control; 
 however the Big Brain didn't do his risk analysis fully. Three teenage zombies have risen from 
 their grave, the scent of pulpy brains giving way to their usual hunger for our skulls. Fair enough, 
 sounds like a great laugh? The unlikely heroes Fins, Lefty and Half-Pipe set off to devour the 
 Big Brain slurping on his brain horde army all the way, and I mean A LOT of brains. You must gobble 
 through hundreds of brains throughout this game, not that it's gory. The game has a bright colour 
 pallet and the graphic styling is cute, with more than a passing nod towards Invader Zim. So yeah, 
 it looks pretty good and the graphic novel sequences between stages are well done; you have to 
 flip the DS round into portrait mode to view them which is a nice touch. However, I'm afraid no 
 other praise is forthcoming.
  
  When I first heard about this title, I instantly thought of Blizzards The Lost Vikings released 
 back in 1992. "Oh yes!" I exclaimed, "side-scrolling puzzle, platform goodness will be mine, and 
 with zombies too!" You see the thing that made Lost Vikings so addictive and fun to play was because 
 of its simplicity. You had 3 Vikings, each with different abilities which you could switch between 
 at will. The core of the game was using the individual abilities and their combinations to solve 
 puzzles and progress. Now, Teenage Zombies does this as well, to an extent, but gets it all wrong. 
 Instead of the three zombies being persistent throughout play, you literally switch between the 
 zombies, meaning you only have one in play at any given moment. Sure this simplifies the game even 
 further and I am aware that I'm not exactly the target audience for this title, but come on! This 
 game mechanic throws out any challenge to the "puzzles" along with any hope of interesting gameplay. 
 All that is left are the power-ups, which are another big pile of rotten brains if ever I saw one. 
 The unlimited power-ups specific to each of the zombies: fire puke, a vacuum cleaner, and HUGE 
 skateboard wheels etc need to be collected to pass certain obstacles encountered in the each level. 
 The irony in this is that you have to have the suited zombie in play to pick up the power-up. Why, 
 oh why is this necessary? I can switch zombies at any time so were is the fun in switching to the 
 right zombie every time for each power-up? Not only this, but the power-ups are almost always placed 
 right next to the hazard. This is not puzzle solving, it's dull, repetitive, and in some instances 
 just extra leg work.
  
  So far, not looking good but the game still has the platforming element to make up for it.. oh 
 no, it doesn't. As you can change zombies at any time, clambering around the levels is a dull past 
 time with both Fins (he can climb up walls) and Lefty (she can jump pretty high, and extend her 
 reach) doing pretty much all the work. Half-Pipe can fling himself off ramps and such like and 
 slip down narrow tunnels, but he's pretty useless otherwise. Sure, these guys are zombies so I'm 
 not expecting acrobatics but the ropy platforming makes the game feel really rough around the edges. 
 The only fun to be had while navigating the dull, repetitive levels is bashing brain thingys and 
 eating, well, their brains. Not that killing them is satisfying but it's the most enjoyable bit 
 of an otherwise uninspiring package. Puking fire on a horde of rats and watching the run about 
 on fire wasting brain thingys is amusing granted, that is if you don't experience slow down. Yes, 
 this game is plagued with hideous frame rate issues throughout, particularly when using said puke, 
 and most of Chapter 19. Yet another dirty blood stain to add to the now brown review page.
  
  This slow down kills most of the fun that can be had in the mini-games too. In particular the 
 zombie assembling which is effectively your extra life, the game comes to a grinding halt. It seems 
 that the physics interactions between objects robs the game of its performance as you frantically 
 try to stick the zombie together. Often it won't register the connection between body parts as 
 your time runs out leaving you in the middle of a horde of bad guys with zippo health. Very, very 
 annoying as it's then restart level time. The other mini-games fair a bit better but it's all been 
 seen before in The New Super Mario Bros and doesn't alter the outcome of the game other than your 
 score. The Big Brain challenge, a separate mini-gun convoluted from Warioware style gameplay is 
 equally poor. It feels very much like the usual story with DS games; tack on some touch screen 
 bits, because we can.
  
  The sounds effects and music fit with the style of the game with the crunch of breaking brain thingy 
 and brain munching being spot on, but the music is incredibly annoying. I had to switch it off 
 after the first hour or so of play, it was just too much. Particularly once you notice that there 
 are only 3 or 4 different tracks through out the whole game, and it makes no attempts to hide this 
 by endlessly repeating them to you until you GO INSANE!
  
  Teenage Zombies feels like a beta game. The game mechanics have not been well thought out and the 
 bugs are crawling all over its carrion smelling corpse. It's clear that the focus has been on presentation 
 over content and the game really suffers for it. Thankfully it is a short game and took me only 
 4 or 5 hours to complete. However, I did it on hard so there is certainly no replay value in the 
 main part of the game. The mini-games and such like are unlocked for your enjoyment, but why you'd 
 want to waste anymore time fiddling around with the hideous things is beyond me. The other thing 
 that really got up my nose was that despite the game's heavy focus on tongue and cheek 50's B-movie 
 humour, it just never came across as funny. Not only that but it is quite possibly the holder of 
 one of the worst game endings in the history of gaming, both the boss and end sequence, what a 
 pile of rubbish. I can not recommend this title to anyone other than sadists and masochists with 
 a love for shiny graphics over fun. 
  
  Avoid this one like zombie plague, you've been warned. Just be thankful that I exposed myself to 
 save youhopefully I've not been infected.. oh noes! 
  The teenage zombies have entered my brainquarters! 
 
  
  4/10
  
  - Niall Macdonald 16/05/08
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: tallrob
Rating: 8
Date: Jun 13, 2008 11:53 am PT
Review:  This is not the most challenging of games I've played but the twisted humor and characters are 
 well worth a few laughs. Three Zombie teens (done with total cartoon humor, not Resident Evil nasty) . 
 Each character has unique abilities and you'll have to figure out when and who does what, to forward 
 the game: ya gotta love the humor of a character that that barfs up the right stuff for fighting 
 his enemies: soap bubbles, flaming hot pizza like stuff and more. Three characters are a teen undead 
 zombie fighting force, including loose limbs and plenty of Alien brains to deal with (much like 
 the Simpsons dome headed aliens) . No scares or creeps here, just satirical humor and pretty basic 
 game play. get it for the fum, not the gaming challenge which is not too difficult and I'm a newbie 
 to the DS!
  
  Have fun with a twisted sense of humor, but don't look for sophisticated difficulty in the play. 
 variety yes, fun yes, difficult? heck no, but a great way to check your brain at the door and zone 
 out with a few laughs. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
