-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Teenage Mutant Ninja Turtles 3: Mutant Nightmare
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/ds/action/tmnt3/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 Slick graphics and audio that faithfully capture the tone of the toon.
 Simple combat with a good variety of attacks.
 Turtle-specific attacks and levels.
 More than 40 different story levels to explore.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 Fighting the same enemies repeatedly.
 Platform and puzzle elements further grind pace to a halt.
 Grabbing for the stylus whenever a touch screen puzzle occurs.
 Controls are rigid and often unresponsive.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Jan 13, 2006
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 6.1
Critic Score: 6.0, 10 Review (s)
User Score: 7.1, 104 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Konami
Genre: Beat-'Em-Up
Date: Nov 1, 2005
ESRB: Everyone

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Mutant Nightmare is a good beat-'em-up at heart, but it's totally bogged down by platforming elements, 
 puzzles, and touch screen features that don't work, not to mention stuffy controls. 

  Ever since Konami reacquired the rights to produce games based on the Teenage Mutant Ninja Turtles 
 property, the company has churned out one mediocre beat-'em-up after another. Teenage Mutant Ninja 
 Turtles 3: Mutant Nightmare for the Nintendo DS does nothing to reverse the trend, although its 
 silky-smooth graphics and Turtle-inspired combat may be enough to satisfy some truly diehard TMNT 
 fans out there. Everyone else, however, will likely lose interest quickly, whether due to the game's 
 overly repetitive combat and platforming, or as a result of frustration brought on by the unresponsive 
 controls and the various puzzle and touch screen gimmicks that feel tacked on and intrusive.  

 
          TMNT 3: Mutant Nightmare is 50 percent beat-'em-up, 30 percent platformer, and 20 percent 
 puzzles.     

  Many of the game's superficial aspects are downright pleasant. Konami has transformed the most 
 recent seasons of the cartoon show into a side-scrolling beat-'em-up with some platforming and 
 puzzle-solving mixed in. Players can play through the game as any of the four turtles, facing off 
 against recognizable enemies along the way, such as the Triceratons, Dr. Stockman, and Shredder, 
 and also encountering familiar friends, like the Fugitoid and Casey Jones. Graphically, this is 
 one of the better-looking side-scrollers in recent memory. The 2D character sprites are large, 
 smoothly animated spitting images of their cartoon counterparts. Every character, good or bad, 
 has numerous attacks and goofy facial expressions that add some personality to the goings on. The 
 backgrounds are drawn in the same Technicolor style as the cartoon, and there's also a fair amount 
 of subtle depth to take in, thanks to the combination of 2D and 3D background layers. The overall 
 effect is identical to what Konami accomplished in Castlevania: Dawn of Sorrow, with buildings 
 and clouds in the backdrop gradually changing orientation as you pass by them in the foreground. 
 And, although the audio in Mutant Nightmare doesn't quite achieve the same standard as Dawn of 
 Sorrow, its series-inspired music and frequent use of turtle voice clips suit the action perfectly. 

  Mutant Nightmare also offers more levels than the typical beat-'em-up. The single-player story 
 mode is broken down into four chapters, each containing six levels, for a grand total of 24 levels. 
 The actual level count is somewhere closer to 40, however, because some levels are completely different 
 depending on the character you pick. Each turtle can also access certain rooms in some levels that 
 the others can't. Raphael can push heavy boulders out of the way, for instance, which lets him 
 uncover hidden passageways that the others have no chance of accessing. Apart from seeing all the 
 different levels, there are other incentives for playing through the game with all four turtles, 
 such as unique ending scenes for each turtle, and the special bonus that's unlocked when you've 
 gathered up all of the crystals located within every level. Even though the story mode is the game's 
 main focus, there's also a battle mode to dabble in, which can be played solo or with as many as 
 three other friends by linking multiple copies of the game together using the system's local Wi-Fi 
 capabilities. Multiplayer is a bonus more than anything else; it simply involves gathering up crystals 
 in smaller variations of the main levels, but the option to play cooperatively in addition to free-for-all 
 does ensure a few extra laughs, at least.  

  Wisely, Konami didn't try to get too elaborate with the way combat works. The controls are laid 
 out simply enough, with three buttons labeled jump, attack, and special attack, respectively, along 
 with a few so-called tag moves that are activated by tapping hotspots on the touch screen. Combat 
 occurs on a 2D plane, but in most spots you can dangle from ledges or jump onto platforms to wrangle 
 some breathing room. Each turtle has a good assortment of attacks for use close-up and in midair, 
 as well as a long-distance attack and a pair of special attacks that are useful in certain situations. 
 Meanwhile, pressing the attack button multiple times will cause your turtle to perform a predefined 
 sequence of attacks. Tag moves feel like a gimmick that was tacked on solely to play up touch screen 
 support, but they're not altogether unpleasant. By tapping hotspots on the touch screen, you can 
 summon a second turtle to shove objects out of the way, give you a boost to distant handholds, 
 or eliminate every enemy that's visible onscreen. This latter attack is limited to three uses per 
 level. Thankfully, the touch area for tag moves is large enough so that you can use a finger to 
 activate them, instead of having to fumble for the stylus every time. One annoying drawback, though, 
 is that the system beeps constantly to alert you whenever you can perform a touch screen action, 
 which totally drowns out the music and sound effects.  

  Beating up on anonymous Triceratons and federation soldiers is enjoyable for the first couple of 
 levels or so, but then the game starts to lose steam. That's partly due to the fatigue that develops 
 from fighting the same carbon copy enemies repeatedly in each chapter, especially if you're playing 
 through the game with all four turtles just to see every ending. By and large, however, the real 
 culprits are the platforming sections and touch screen-oriented puzzles that crop up once or twice 
 in each level. Instead of providing some much-needed variety between melees, these aspects slow 
 the game down even further and, at times, also bring unwanted frustration. The platforming sections 
 tend to involve drawn-out segments of crawling through tunnels and waiting for spike traps to retract. 
 Occasionally, you'll have to escort Fugitoid or Splinter through a level, which involves picking 
 them up and carrying them over jump sections and putting them down when you have to deal with enemies. 
 This sort of constant start-stop-start just doesn't feel appropriate in a game that's supposed 
 to be action-packed. Equally bothersome are the touch screen puzzles that crop up multiple times 
 during certain levels. In some spots, you'll come across a computer terminal that initiates a puzzle 
 sequence, which you have to solve by tapping and rotating objects on the touch screen. These silly 
 pattern matching and alignment tasks aren't at all interesting, for one, and secondly, they can 
 prove frustrating because the touch-sensitive areas for these puzzles are so tiny. Combat, however, 
 doesn't require any fumbling with the stylus; you'll find yourself scrambling for it each time 
 you see a computer terminal up ahead.  

          Unfortunately, the platforming sections and puzzles feel intrusive, and the controls are 
 rather rigid.     

  To further complicate matters, the controls are rigid and often unresponsive. Cheap hits are the 
 order of the day for a number of reasons. For one, you can't interrupt an attack to turn around 
 or to jump out of the way should an enemy walk up behind you. Those combination attacks that look 
 so flashy and do such a nice job of hammering single enemies also leave you wide open for an attack 
 from behind, because your turtle stays stuck in place until the attack animation is finished. Secondly, 
 the game isn't consistent when it comes to overlapping enemies. Leo's sword slash, for instance, 
 will hit overlapping enemies simultaneously with one use, but may only hit one of them the next. 
 Thus, while you're attacking that one Triceraton, the other is in perfect position to punch Leo 
 right in the jaw. Ouch. Worst of all, though, is that the game will often just ignore button inputs. 
 In a fast-paced game such as this one, it's demoralizing to tap the attack or jump button, hoping 
 for a quick attack or leap to safety, only to have nothing happen. You can work around the stuffy 
 controls by sticking to jump attacks and long-range attacks as much as possible, but where's the 
 joy in that?  

  On the whole, devoted TMNT worshippers may be able to see past the game's faults long enough to 
 squeeze their money's worth out of it. Anyone else should probably steer clear of Teenage Mutant 
 Ninja Turtles 3: Mutant Nightmare. Had Konami ironed out the kinks with the controls and not been 
 so liberal with the various platform, puzzle, and touch screen elements, which serve only to overcomplicate 
 a formula that shouldn't be complicated in the first place, they would've produced a beat-'em-up 
 suitable for a wide audience. Sadly, they missed the mark yet again.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (3 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: Zonelezz
Rating: 5.3
Date: Nov 8, 2006 10:07 pm PT
Review:  As we know TMNT is a popular franchise since the 80s when it reached the cartoons. Many of us would 
 know TMNT as the wacky and smart ninja turtles that everyone loved. Since many of the old school 
 TMNT games were really popular, also known as TMNT 4 on the snes Turtles In Time . Many gamers 
 and fans will find that this is a good exmaple of a bad game. Leo, Mickey, Raph, and Don are all 
 back in this wacky and BAD action adventure game also known as TMNT 3: Mutant Melee. Alas, Konami 
 has come out with the 3rd TMNT game which is a horrible mess and should not even begin with. Many 
 gamers will get bored with the repetitive gameplay and frustrated at the game making them lose 
 interest in the game quickly.
  
  The plot of the game revolves around the 4 turtles trying to save the planet and arch nemesis shredder 
 who is trying to take over the world once again. You wont have as much back ground information 
 of the turtles since this is a sequel to the game TMNT: Battle Nexus. You will encounter many enemies 
 and character through out the game. Casey Jones, Splinter, and April return in this adventure of 
 saving the day. TMNT 3: Mutant Melee plays similar to TMNT 2: battle nexus. You start by choosing 
 one of the main turtles of the game. The game will then focus on the character you choose leading 
 you to many paths as you travel through the levels. There consist of 4 different types of worlds 
 and each world has about 6 - 8 levels within. Making this game about 40 stages in this entire game. 
 There consist of 3 differnt types of modes you can choose from, Easy, Normal, and Hard. Once you 
 have selected a mode, youll choose a character, and so on into the levels. You can choose one of 
 the 4 t urtles and youll have to finish the entire game with just that one character. You can always 
 choose another characater, but it dosnt mean you can continue off with what your first character 
 was at. Youll have to start all over from the begining with that new character in order to see 
 his ending. The levels have a mix and match of beat em ups and puzzle problems. These may seem 
 like a good feature to the game but which really makes the game a let down. Many of the puzzles 
 are too simple and are not fun. Some of the puzzles will use the bottom touch screen giving you 
 the chance to use the stylus to finish the puzzles. There will be more then just puzzles that you 
 will encounter, like enemies. The enemies that youll encounter are mostly Tricertops soldiers and 
 some of the foot clans. While you are passing through the levels, there will be a small icon that 
 shows up in front of the top screen and warns you of the enemies youll encounter. You can have 
 different ways of defeating the enemies on screen. You have your typical b button which lets you 
 do small quick attacks. If you hold the b button down, youll be able to do a charge attack. The 
 charge bar is on the bottom screen which is kinda hard to notice when your actually using the top 
 screen to fight. The charge bar consist of 3 sections, but you can only use 2 of them. When you 
 charge it the first bar, there wont even be an attack that comes out. When you charge it to the 
 2nd or 3rd bar, youll blast out a super attack that can unleash a devestating attack on your enemies. 
 But the enemies wont even give you a chance to charge because there always infront or behind you. 
 Most likely you wont even need it and just basic attacks can eventually kill your enemies. The 
 most frustrating part of this game is the life bar and the enemies that attack you from behind. 
 You dont have mens or lives in this game which means you get one life and thats all. You will have 
 unlimited continues but it dosn't even help at all in this game. Lets say you have made it half 
 way through the stage, but you die. You dont get to start at that check point, you actaully have 
 to start from the beginning of the stage which really causes gamers to eagerily shut the game system 
 off. Now another thing that can get very irrating is the enemies behind you. You dont get an back 
 attack like TMNT 4, you actaully have to turn around and wack the enemy if you get the chance to. 
 The controls are horribly designed and fail in every aspect to control the character. Many of the 
 controls are very unresponsive and to me it seems like Konami didn't even bother puting a decent 
 code in this game to make the controls right. Graphically this game looks pretty well done from 
 using 2d sprites in a side scrolling action game. The animations for each character looks nice 
 and each turtle will have there own little actions. Each character has there own unique color and 
 when there weapons are used. The color implies like a shadowy strike upon the weapon which makes 
 them look very unique. You wil eventually get small cutscenes that are animated from the movie 
 and thats about it. No CG animations are in this game, but game visually looks good. The back ground 
 is mostly 2d sprites and depending which area your in, the back ground can move up ,down, or even 
 sideways. Now back on the old school TMNT games, the music is what really got some gamers invovled 
 too. Most gamers will realize that the new theme for TMNT is horribly done. Its fast beat, but 
 just dosnt have a rythm to get you pumped for the game. Music in most stages involve techno mix's 
 to soft electronic melodys. Each weapon has there own unique sound and presents itself mostly well 
 but not enough to get a gamer involved in the game.
  
  Most gamers will realize that Konami has not put enough punch into the turtles franchise and should 
 just let another company take over. If your looking for an action game, its better that you look 
 else where and avoid this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Laki2
Rating: 6.3
Date: Sep 9, 2006 5:07 pm PT
Review:  I bought this game today, so it's a little early to give a full review , but from the couple of 
 hours I spent playing it, the game was enjoyable. It's not the greatest game I've played on my 
 DS but for the price I paid, it was well worth it. I bought this game fo about $15 dollars at Circuit 
 City, brand new. Basically it's like most other TMNT games, it's a side-scrolling platformer/beat 
 'em up game. There are some puzzle elements thrown in, but for the most part the rules are simple. 
 Walk either left or right, beat up some bad guys, jump on a few platforms, and move on. The puzzles 
 do incorporate the use of the touch screen though, and some are kind of fun, ie. rotate the sewer 
 valve, or break glass in case of emergency, where you tap the glass repeatedly until it shatters, 
 then press the big red button. Other fun things happen with the help of your brothers. One brother 
 may help you beat up the bad guys, at times another brother will give you a much needed lift to 
 a platform which would be unreachable otherwise. All in all the game is ok, I wouldn't call it 
 bad. I have played bad games, and believe me, they do get worse, much worse. If you're looking 
 to compare it to the older games, I doubt you'll be too disappointed. Compared to newer games it 
 does lack in some areas. Though the graphics aren't bad, they aren't nice either, it seems a little 
 rough around the edges. Some of the Turtles seem to move a bit funny too, Raph for instance attempts 
 to walk like a tough guy and swinging his shoulders, but it comes off more goofy than anything 
 else. The sound is ok too, but sometimes the "brother alarm" gets a little annoying. The "brother 
 alarm" is what I call the sound effect made when you are able to call on your brother for a bit 
 of help, it seems to go off constantly. As far as the gameplay goes, I found it acceptable. Overall, 
 I don't regret buying the game. I'll play it 'till I beat it, on all three difficulty settings, 
 and battlemode, then once I do all that, I can start all over again with another turtle, since 
 as I'm sure you're already aware, all four brothers are playable. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: eee_master
Rating: 3.5
Date: Jul 27, 2006 3:41 pm PT
Review:  I have always been fond of the fact that Konami is the only publisher to make the TMNT series for 
 the last 15 + years now. There is just open problem with this one. Mind you the last game I played 
 thoroughly was Turtles in time for the SNES. I played my Friends TMNT games for the GBA and was 
 not at all impressed. All but the touch screen functions and sounds are exactly the same and it 
 really does not feel too much like u are playing a NDS game but rather a GBA game with added NDS 
 functions.
  
  The side scrolling action gets boring fast but I dont know why they could not have made this game 
 like final fight one or TMNT turtles in time because the  view added so much to the games and 
 made them a lot better. 
  
  What I did enjoy was the audio the games sound was probably the big positive and contained lines 
 form the cartoon.
  
  The puzzles again, are pretty simple. You just need to be fast thats all. 
  
  All in all I 
 am very disappointed. The old Turtles the arcade game for the NES is much more fun and Turtles 
 in time is as well. This one belongs in
  
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
