-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Tenchu: Dark Secret
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/ds/action/tenchuds/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 Pulling off trap combos can be mildly amusing.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 Ugly, muddy graphics.
 numbingly repetitive mission design.
 mindless enemy artificial intelligence.
 it's either very easy or very frustrating, depending on the mission.
 Pointless online wifi mode.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Aug 25, 2006
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 4.3
Critic Score: 3.7, 9 Review (s)
User Score: 5.9, 190 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Nintendo
Developer: From Software
Genre: Historic Action Adventure
Date: Aug 21, 2006
ESRB: Teen

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
You'd be better off staying away from this botched attempt to translate the great ninja stealth 
 action series to the DS. Almost nothing good about Tenchu made the cut. 

  Apparently even ninjas can fall flat on their face. Tenchu: Dark Secret, the new portable entry 
 in the long-running stealth action series, bears a slight superficial resemblance to some of its 
 great predecessors. But the gameplay itself is a mess -- a confusing series of aimless, repetitive, 
 and sometimes-frustrating missions that play like a mediocre Nintendo game from the 1980s. The 
 action can still be oddly addictive for short bursts, and the game does have a few decent ideas 
 that are new to the Tenchu series. But if the Tenchu name still means something important to you 
 (or even if it doesn't) , you'd probably be better off avoiding this one.  

          The best-looking part of this game is the character-select screen. You'll barely recognize 
 Rikimaru and Ayame during gameplay.     

  Tenchu DS seems promising enough on first impression. It's got two playable characters, Rikimaru 
 and Ayame, whom fans of the series will instantly recognize. You'll choose one or the other at 
 the beginning of any mission. The game's also got a surprisingly long-winded story, involving a 
 princess who's being stalked by a growing number of enemies for mysterious reasons. Rikimaru and 
 Ayame are recruited to defend her and so must take on a series of missions to disrupt enemy operations 
 nearby. After every few missions, more of the storyline unfolds -- through screen after screen of 
 text -- and occasionally you must fight a boss opponent of some sort. But most missions simply involve 
 killing everybody or rescuing someone (usually by killing everybody anyway) . There are momentary 
 flashes of variety every now and then, but so many of the mission objectives, enemies, and even 
 mission maps are recycled over and over again that the greatest challenge of the game soon becomes 
 having the wherewithal to keep going.  

  That's partly because most missions are painfully simple. You view the action from a slightly skewed, 
 overhead perspective and will spend your time running up behind enemies and slashing them, which 
 kills most foes in one hit. Should an enemy actually spot you, he'll give chase as a few more cronies 
 run in from offscreen, but it's very easy to run away... and sure enough, your foe will forget you 
 were ever there in a matter of seconds. It's also very easy to sneak up on most foes, since the 
 Nintendo DS's touch screen provides you with a real-time map that gives away enemy positions and 
 the direction the enemies are looking. Enemies' patrols are rigid, robotic, and slow, so finding 
 an opening takes little effort. Then, once you land a killing blow, the results are disappointing. 
 The Tenchu series' elaborate stealth-kill animations are replaced here by static images of guys 
 looking surprised. There's no gore and no style to any of the killing, and in fact, many of the 
 bandits you face early on die not with a scream but with a noise that sounds an awful lot like 
 a burp.  

  Remember how cool it was using the grappling hook to get to high ground or out of a dangerous head-on 
 fight in earlier Tenchu games? Forget about it. Rikimaru and Ayame can jump and grab onto ledges 
 and pull themselves up, but that's about the extent of their mobility. The two play almost exactly 
 alike, but Rikimaru is stronger so he's better anytime you think you're going to wind up fighting 
 head-on. You do get to use a fairly wide variety of other tools besides your sword, and the game's 
 best feature is probably its crafting system. You can find ingredients from slain opponents or 
 just lying out in the wilderness, and these can be combined to form various traps and other equipment -- once 
 you learn a recipe from a rescued villager. The game's depth, if it has any, comes from the ability 
 to link traps together for combo kills. For instance, you can hit a guy in the back and knock him 
 into an explosive trap or a bamboo spike trap. Yet the relative effort and patience required to 
 pull off a trap combo hardly justifies the reward in bonus points and money you'll earn from this. 
 That's not to say this game is always easy, since certain mission types will demand trial-and-error 
 on your part until you figure out where all the bad guys are coming from, or get lucky fighting 
 a tough boss.  

          You can set booby traps for your foes, but it's rarely worth the trouble.     

  The 
 game's action feels flat and hollow. The 3D graphics are ugly and bland, and the sound effects 
 and music are all over the place, ranging in tone wildly. In addition to its single-player mode, 
 there's a four-player versus mode with several variants, but it requires each player to have a 
 copy of the game, and the head-to-head combat in Tenchu DS is poor anyway. Also, there's a trading 
 market available over a Wi-Fi connection. It's interesting in theory, being able to buy and sell 
 items with friends and strangers over the airwaves, but it's a slow and clunky process that seems 
 entirely unnecessary.  

  A straight translation of the traditional Tenchu gameplay might not have been practical on the 
 Nintendo DS, nor would it have made for an original experience. But it's hard not to think about 
 how much better something like that could have been as an alternative to this slapdash game. The 
 only aspect of the Tenchu series that this game incorporates successfully is the part about having 
 to run up behind enemies looking the other way. But there's a lot more to those games than that. 
     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (18 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: mattandben
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jan 15, 2009 9:52 am PT
Review:  ok first this game does not have the best graphics but the gameplay makes up for that. The game 
 dosent really have anything to do with stealth but the idea of setting traps is fun. The levels 
 are mainly based on killing a sertain person, killing all the enemies or freeing a hostage which 
 i think are good fun.
  But what makes me dislike this game is how sometimes (even in your in very close range) you dont 
 get seen by an enemie. The game is cheap i got mine for 7.99 in my local game store. The story 
 line is ok but could be better. The camera is annoying but it is ok. This game is not worth buying 
 but if you can rent it (then if you like it you can buy it) . The item use sytem is ok but sometimes 
 annoying. Bosses can be anooying sometimes but are fairly easy once you know the moves they use.
 
  Conculsion: a fairly good game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: wookers
Rating: 5
Date: Jul 21, 2008 11:46 pm PT
Review:  game theres alot to be said theres only one attack button the traps are useless then only time 
 i use them is when im running away from the A. I. its kinda stupid how they cant see you even when 
 its day light sound and the lighting affects dont really matter. all you have to know is to be 
 behind them hmmmmm. what else (MONKEY BAWLS THIS GAME IS MONKEY BAWLS) . welll its okay to play 
 even when your bored *cough* dont buy this game ITS SUCKS RETARDED MONKEY BAWLS TO THE MAX FAWK! 
 *cough* but all in all its better than a renee zelwiger movie. thats me choking on this game its 
 so stupid its useless im tired of playing crappy ds games seriously tenchu used to be fun know 
 its making me cry 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GeekyDad
Rating: 6.5
Date: Feb 1, 2008 5:32 am PT
Review:  Put away any notions of playing a console-style version of Tenchu on your DS. This ain't it  pure 
 and simple. But for what Dark Secret is, it's actually quite fun. Perhaps if more critics were 
 able to be objective in the sense of considering a game in the context of the platform that it's 
 on, this Tenchu would have fared better.
  
  There are some things, obviously, that you can poke holes at with Dark Secret. It's not a very 
 long game, nor is it a very pretty game. And at the original retail price that was being asked, 
 Tenchu: Dark Secret wasn't much of a bargain either. However, it's been out for a while now and 
 is probably worth a second look, since you're likely to find it at a more reasonable price.
  
  Dark Secret is an action game. The console iterations were all about the stealth, and though 
 that does play a part in this game, it's not the main focus. There are only two actual stealth 
 moves: your ability to come up from behind an enemy, and the ability to cleave to walls and such 
 when your character nears them -- giving you the only bit of control over the otherwise fixed camera. 
 But slowly edging your way up along a wall or other obstacle, in hopes of taking your foe on unawares, 
 just isn't an option in this game.
  
  That said, the gameplay is still very satisfying. It's also kept quite simple, which works surprisingly 
 well. There aren't a ton of combos thrown in to try to make the game appear more interesting than 
 it really is, rather the missions are designed in a way that make the gameplay fun and entertaining. 
 You have three basic moves: slash, guard and jump. You can also lay traps, using the X-button. 
 The touch-screen really only comes into play when selecting an action item to be used with the 
 X-button, but touch-screen isn't really missed either.
  
  Interesting Gameplay Features:
  
   Play as one of two characters  Rikimaru (the muscle  good for head-on battles) or Ayame 
 (the better stealth character)
   Local versus battles with friends (multi-card, I believe  can't say I've had the pleasure of 
 trying it) .
   Online market  buy and sell items acquired in the single-player game.
   Collectables in the form of scrolls and kill-gallery images. A bit on the macabre side for me, 
 butif it floats your boat.
  
  The game is broken into various missions, and short story snippets are weaved throughout. Perhaps 
 you've heard it all before, but Dark Secret's story is still interesting and enjoyable. A pair 
 of ninjas must rescue a princess  not much there perhaps  but for an arcade-style action game, 
 it works quite well. If you enjoy a mature, Orient-themed fantasy, Dark Secret shouldn't disappoint.
 
  
  Where Tenchu falls short, mainly, is in its look. The character models are actually quite attractive, 
 but everything else iswell, it ain't pretty. Lots of blocky environments, not a lot of variety, 
 and the same bandit foes are recycled over and over. During the story elements  which segue missions 
  you get static storyboards and, though they are pretty to look at, there aren't many of them.
 
  
  But the presentation of Dark Secret is not all bad. The sound and music are actually pretty impressive 
 for a DS game. The title music is very pretty, very authentic, and it comes across on the DS speakers 
 in a fairly high fidelity. The menu music is a really cool, heavy-metal-type thing, with variations 
 presented in different menus. The in-game music, too, is very atmospheric, though a little repetitious. 
 Dark Secret also offers some actual voice work, albeit minor. At the beginning of levels, your 
 character will utter a quick snippet, and enemies babble various things at you if you're discovered.
 
  
  The menus, themselves, are very attractive and well-organized. You're given the option to make 
 gear from recipes and items you receive. You can also shop and sell items, as well as choose from 
 the various missions you've unlocked. And though the game definitely seems to be catered toward 
 veterans of the series, there is a quick control guide offered as one of the menu options. Sound 
 and music settings can be changed, and all the menu icons have a cool Asian flavor that should 
 satisfy ninja lovers.
  
  Sounds great, eh? Well, it's not. The game is good, not great. The AI isn't terrible  the enemies 
 guard attacks quite well  but they do only a repetitive set of moves and speak the same sayings 
 over and over. The missions are also pretty much the same thing, with only a little variation here 
 and there. You do get boss battles thrown in, and they are, indeed, satisfying to beat, but the 
 bosses are relative pushovers. Lastly, though the top-down camera system is probably the best choice 
 for this type of game on the DS, it can be quite a hindrance all the same. It would have been nice 
 if the camera could have been scrolled down somehow to offer a behind-the-back view, ala Warcraft 
 3 or the tinkered-with version of Metal Gear Solid 3  Subsistence.
  
  But I think the two things that were pitted most against Dark Secret upon its release were that 
 it was obscured by some weird exclusivity thing with EB Games  you could only buy it from them 
  and, again, it's just not the prettiest thing we've seen on the DS. However, if you can find 
 it for $20 (or less)  new or used  and you're a fan of this type of game, you're likely to be 
 well satisfied in adding it to your collection. The game offers a high polish on the presentation 
 front, and is solid where the gameplay is concerned, but at the same token it could have used some 
 spit and polish in the graphics and missions departments. Overall Dark Secret probably could have 
 been a whole lot better. I'd like to see another go at the series on the DS. I think the developers 
 have a lot of good ideas, and perhaps we could eventually see a really tight offering should there 
 be a next time around.
  
  Hope this review helps if you were curious about the game. Thanks for reading, and happy gaming.
 
  
  -GD
  
  Scores
  
  Presentation / 8
  A fine story, weaved neatly in & out of the various missions. Not much variation in the storyboards, 
 though. The menus are very attractive, and there are a lot of useful options that enhance the overall 
 experience.
  
  Graphics / 6
  Decent character models and the cutscenes have a nice cinematic quality to them, but the environments 
 are mostly boxy and pixilated. There isn't much variation in either the areas you explore or the 
 enemies you encounter.
  
  Sound / 9
  There isn't much variety where the voiceovers are concerned, but  hey  there are voiceovers; 
 that's gotta count for something. But the music iswell, now that I think about it, it's pretty 
 darn stellar. I go in for all that authentic Asian stuff, and the heavy-metal music that's played 
 in the menu screens somehow works perfectly, as well.
  
  Gameplay / 7
  Solid. Missions are fun, though a tad repetitive. I do, however, appreciate the fact that the combat 
 was kept simple. This just isn't the type of game that requires your character to have a bunch 
 of combo moves and such. Laying traps and watching enemies fall into them, or whacking foes from 
 behind, is very satisfying, no matter how many times you perform these tasks.
  
  Replay / 6
  If you're into collecting death scenes (ew) , then there's plenty to come back to 
 in this game. There's also some incentive in the online trading, but it's a pretty short game overall. 
 The multiplayer  as I've said about every other game like this  should have either been a local, 
 single-card offering or an online offeringor both, but local multi-card play isn't going to extend 
 the life of a game for most DS owners.
  
  Overall / 7 (Strictly at a discounted price  the score goes down as the price goes up.)
  
 
  Final Comments: If you're into ninjas (registered Naruto fan here) or think you might enjoy some 
 arcade-style stealth action on your DS, you might really enjoy this game. But it's a niche title, 
 to be sure. So, it's likely not for everyone. Buyer beware! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: white143papi
Rating: 5
Date: Apr 26, 2007 2:08 pm PT
Review:  This game is a total let down, thinking that the Tenchu games are great (well most of it) and to 
 be given this is a slap to the face to the fans. This game honestly would be a great game for the 
 Game Boy Color but in the DS much could of been done to make this game better. One, more intelligent 
 to the A. I; two, more choices in weapons, scenery, and enemies to fight; three; not to score stealth 
 during boss fight it is unfair and impossible to do; four, a cleaner graphics could made it more 
 enjoyable to see. Me being interested in Asian culture of course I am going to be curious of the 
 games and that would be the only reason I bought this. If you have some what similarities to my 
 interest then this can amuse you for a while but let me tell you after I defeated the game I never 
 touched it again. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: benleslie5
Rating: 4.8
Date: Feb 27, 2007 2:17 pm PT
Review:  Tenchu games were my kind of Stleath games. But the DS version of Dark Secret is really disapointing 
 for Tenchu fans. Main Story abour protecting a Princess called Princess **** who is completely 
 ill but she get posessed by evil between war. You can play as Rikimaru or Ayame the levels and 
 missions are abit repeated like protect the villege from the bad guys or kill all enimies all at 
 once. It still has its weapons and items to attack or heal yourself, you can also create items 
 as well instead of buying stuff from the shop. But the biggest letdown is the graphics they are 
 really poor in the game looks alot like N-Gage graphics if you think about it. But you can connected 
 with other players with Wi-Fi connection you can sell your items to players or multiplayer matches.
 
  If your a Tenchu fan you will disapionted by this game so I wouldn't buy it for under &pound;20. 
 It will take you a few hours to finish you better of borrowing this game from someone. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ahiga
Rating: 1.7
Date: Feb 21, 2007 2:47 pm PT
Review:  Having purchased the game thinking it would be a great game to have for th e DS especially since 
 I like both the Tenchu series in general and also the Nintendo DS. However the game mechanics alone 
 do not convey Tenchu's trademark game play at all. The essence of hide/wait/kill has been left 
 out completely from the game. Even removing the consideration that this is a Tenchu game, it hardly 
 holds up to something that is even remotely fun. Allowing limited view to see your enemies, you 
 spend most of your time running around watching the Ki meter hoping that you will not bump into 
 your enemy while he is facing your way. Oddly enough if you walk under specific kinds of geometry 
 the camera actually lowers to a usable 3rd person perspective. Of course, this is immediately lost 
 once the camera snaps back up to the top view and you realize... this really is a bad game.
  
  One of the few things I thought was neat about the game is the use of the WiFi feature, allowing 
 you to connect to the net. However, once you do figure out how to get it to work through a standard 
 Wi-Fi access point, you'll find nobody to trade with as nobody else has found the game fun enough 
 to even bother. This feature would probably have been better if you were also given the opportunity 
 to obtain items from the net from server driven shops as well.
  
  This is a game you should stay away from in general. Period. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Setsa
Rating: 7.6
Date: Nov 4, 2006 5:51 pm PT
Review:  Gameplay: The gameplay in this game is fairly simple and is easy to catch on to and master, which 
 means that this title is quite easy difficulty wise. The controls work well, but a lot of people 
 may be disappointed because of the lack of touch screen controls. Also, if you are a fan of previous 
 Tenchu games you will probably be a bit disappointed at the various changes such as the top-down 
 view. Overall the game is fun for short bursts, but it isn't a game that you will play for 50+ 
 hours.
  
  Graphics: The graphics in this game are average, but they could have been much better. The characters 
 and traps are fairly well done, but the environment just looks sad. You can barely tell what you 
 are walking on because of the pixelation and sometimes you can even over look and enemy on the 
 top screen because he/she blends into the enviroment (like a ghoul on a rock level) which adds 
 to the difficulty of the game slightly, but is mostly just annoying.
  
  Sound: The sound in this game is good, but it's nothing new. The game uses sounds that work well 
 with the action/enviroment/etc., and the voice overs are pretty cool, except for the bandit's death 
 cry which sounds like something in french being muttered out through a burp.
  
  Value: The value in this game is quite good and will give you a fun 15+ hours. For replay value, 
 you are expected to start the game over after you beat it which allows you to carry over your equipment, 
 recipes, etc. and play the game through again, which can be pretty fun if you wish to get a perfect 
 score on each level.
  
  Reviewer's Tilt: I found this game to be extremely fun from beginning to end. It has a good deal 
 of replay value and a solid gameplay which creates an average stealth game which can provide countless 
 hours of fun for anyone who enjoys sneaking around and killing people people ninja style. WARNING: 
 this game is not necessarily for everyone, so unless you like ninja/assassin stuff i would recommend 
 staying away from this title. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: FetusZero
Rating: 6.1
Date: Oct 2, 2006 6:52 am PT
Review:  I wasn't looking forward to this to beging with. I enjoy regular Tenchu games but this is much 
 different than any previous title. I'll give a little insight on the game, leaving you why it ends 
 with a great disapointement.
  
  To begin with, I could tell you a bit about the story. It shortly resumes to the village is under 
 attack, the princess is in danger, protect both as well as your life.. of course! period. The story 
 isn't of much interest, so don't consider this game for the storyline, this is a baaaaaad idea. 
 Lord of the Dead, bla bla bla, some sentences were so badly translated that I could hardly understand 
 what they were saying. Enough said about a bad storyline, which already there lowers the score. 
 You don't need to know much more of the story other than keep protecting people and villages.
 
  
  Music! This game as.. repeatitive music! They should of called it Tenchu: Repeat the secret or something. 
 That's the secret: Repeatitive. Anyway the music most likely went unoticed to my ears most of the 
 time, nothing too amazing.
  
  Gameplay wise, this game can be enjoyed by many, yet most people will find this EXTREMLY repeatitive 
 and linear and that is because it is. I don't mind the repeatitive side of it, every games in existence 
 comes repeatitive after a while, but Tenchu DS is just... way above the repeatitive limit allowed 
 by 90% of the gamers population. If you wanted a good ol' Tenchu game, again, this isn't for you. 
 But if you are open to new experiences try-outs for Tenchu, this is for you. You cannot use much 
 stealth, anyway not the way you would before. Some enemies simply CAN'T be killed in one slash 
 even using stealth, but luckily you have many traps at your disposition to take care of dealing 
 HUGE deadly combos which destroys every enemy you want within a seconde.
  
  This definately can't be someone's favorite game of all time, but can be amusing for a quick play 
 of slashing into enemy ninjas or dead corpses walking. The graphics? They are pretty simple.. nothing 
 jumps out at me very much. No need to say much about them. The important thing to me is that I 
 can make the difference between my character and the different kind of enemies throughout the game.. and 
 it is widely enough for me. I don't like talking much about graphics unless they are amazingly 
 off the top, since I don't consider graphics a valuable argument for what is a good or bad game... unlike 
 MANY but MANY people do.
  
  So far this is fun. The game is fun. Then where did it go REALLY down for me? The difficulty of 
 the game. If you want something challenging.. run away as fast as you can from this game. You'll 
 totally hate how easy this game is. If you HATE hard games, this game will turn out to be a jewel 
 to your eyes. I mean damn... I thought the final boss would give me a bit of challenge to compensate 
 for the easiness of the game.. nope.. not even.. the second boss of the game was MUCH MUCH MUCH MUCH 
 harder than the final boss. When the second boss of an entire game ends up being the hardest of 
 the entire game.. to me that's something wrong. Anyway, I still enjoy this game, and even though 
 I am far from having ever scrolls and stuff, I doubt I'll ever go back to it. The replay value 
 is good as there is alot of scrolls to gather, yet it lacks just about everything to make you WANT 
 to actually play it a second time, but that is, purely my opinion. I remember with previous titles.. no 
 matter how many times I had to go through a mission to have it perfectly done, with everything, 
 I would do it.. This game just doesn't make you want to.. it was like this for me: It's finished? 
 I'm done through?.... what the hell!? .
  
  But of course, if you forget this.. it has alot of replay value just to get every scrolls and to 
 get a high ninja rank. Ain't got much to say about a game that doesn't have much to offer, a great 
 pick-up and play game for a handheld, a bad game to play 24/7. Have to take the bus? Tenchu DS 
 will bring you some fun meanwhile you're riding to wherever you are going. But for extensive gameplay, 
 you'll get tired of this game quick easily (most likely) and that is if you don't finish the game 
 at lightning speed. My recommendation is to have 3 to 4 other games started at the same time, that 
 way you will get a change of game, then when you go back to Tenchu, you will still enjoy it no 
 matter how repeatitive it can get. You can always get on the multiplayer.. but I doubt there is 
 many people playing this game lately. And even there.. the wi-fi play doesn't give the game much 
 more attributes.
  
  So we can't give a positive nor negative overall review of this game, which in my opinion is why 
 most people rated it around 4 - 6 on 10, which will most likely end up being my score as well once 
 I fill in the attributes down there.
  
  Should you get this game? I say try to find a place to rent it first.. renting it is HIGHLY reccommended 
 as the game's value will highly differ from one person to another. You are warned though, disapointement 
 might be waiting for you.. waiting for you to beat this little game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DoubleDragon1
Rating: 2
Date: Sep 20, 2006 9:47 pm PT
Review:  Just a horrible game. Everything from the grainy crappy graphics to the barely salvagable gameplay. 
 This game doesn't do any justice to a once great series. It's a shame this game leaves a terrible 
 black mark on a respectable action series. Tenchu does nothing to give this series any credibility 
 to itself . It is devoid of any redeeming qualities to even give the suggestion of getting it. 
 It's so awful that I feel like an even bigger idiot wasting my 10 minutes writing a review on it. 
 This game is almost like kissing your sister. I really don't know what else to say. Just save your 
 30 bucks, use it to go out and grab a 24, down it and forget you even glanced in it's general direction. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 2deluxe
Rating: 2
Date: Sep 15, 2006 10:38 am PT
Review:  This is one of those games that really only serve as to make a quick buck from unsuspecting consumer. 
 Bring the only popular stealth ninja series on a technologically challenged format. The result, 
 well no surprise here, is a game that I wouldn't enjoy even if this was released in the NES days 
 back in the 1980s. Tenchu Dark Secret really sets back this struggling series a few years back 
 further as opposed to Metal Gear and Splinter Cell, who have continued on to make each game better 
 than the last. The gameplay is extremely painful. The game is presented in a top view fashion a 
 la Metal Gear and you move your ninja around the field doing the most mundane of missions from 
 kill all enemies in the map, to kill all enemies you encounter on the map then proceed to a boss 
 fight. It's one of those one note gamplay that should not exist today. That nifty grappling hook 
 from the previous games is gone. An advantage to the ninja is getting grip on high land to scour 
 his kill. Instead, you run around on the ground killing unsuspecting guards, it's okay to run, 
 they won't hear you.
  
  The graphics are really muddy and ugly. Rikimaru and Ayame have never looked so ugly. The environments 
 are flat dead with no detail whatsoever.
  
  Overall, Tenchu Dark Secret should be kept a secret. It's the worst game in the series and Nintendo 
 should keep it a secret that they released this game in the US. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: marioistheman1
Rating: 1
Date: Sep 5, 2006 2:08 pm PT
Review:  this game is absolutley the worst game i ever played for the DS. Heck i would rather go play pong 
 for 3 hours than this terrible versoin of Tenchu!! Come on Nintendo you guys can definitly do better 
 than this!! All those really cool mario games and zelda games and almost every other nintendo game 
 i love, but this is boring, stupid, not fun, and completely horrible. The only ok thing about it 
 is, it has Wi-Fi. But even that isnt to great!! Trading your items seemed fun when i was about 
 to buy it. When i got on Wi-Fi it took long enough to try and find someone to trade with. When 
 i did it wasnt fun. I warn you, do not buy this game. I wasted 35 dollars for nothing. If you arent 
 retarted like i was keep away from this game, and if possible dont look at it!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DurhamNC
Rating: 3.5
Date: Sep 4, 2006 6:55 am PT
Review:  Repetitive, tedious, poorly exectued. Tenchu is an example of everything that's wrong with game 
 development. What was an okay game on a phone is a terrible game on the DS if nothing's done to 
 meet the capabilites of the console. Sure, the graphics are okay -- but they never change. The 
 overhead view is frustrating. You never encounter more than 2 or 3 enemies at a time. There are 
 2 playable characters, but only the ninja is worth bringing out: the other's just token. Supposedly 
 better at sneak attacks, she's really just weaker and useless. Item creation, one of the game's 
 selling points, can save you coin and even earn you some, but the items are about as useful as 
 that second player character. So why bother? This game has no interesting or redeeming qualities. 
 And everyone who reviews it agrees. Rent it if you're curious -- but don't shell out the clams. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jdscrub
Rating: 1.8
Date: Sep 3, 2006 3:30 pm PT
Review:  um...... lets see im going to try to find anything good about this game, the only thing that i 
 can find is that it is not the wort game that i have ever played.
  
  the graphics look like a horrible GBA game and the sound is awful i don't even know why i am giving 
 this game a review it is more than it deserves. so i dont have much more to say than this is possibly 
 the worst game to date on the Nintendo DS.
  
  one more thing is that i am really sad that this is now a chapter in the Tenchu series. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: spliffatude
Rating: 5
Date: Aug 30, 2006 11:25 am PT
Review:  This game was great on the playstation why did they change it to this?
  I went out and picked it up yhinking wow Tenchu, ninjas, and sneaking around.
  Sounds cool i 
 thought instead i got stuck with a game with possibly the worst camera angles ever. Plus on top 
 of it all, all u see is a cool cheesy cinematic when u sneak kill a guy. Ridiculous no blood no 
 corespondance with the actual in game character, the least they could have done is have your character 
 move
  with the cinematic is that to much to ask when you are payibg $40 for the damn thing. In my opinion 
 it should have never left the drawing board or the Sony Playstation either. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Ra-Qin
Rating: 2.8
Date: Aug 30, 2006 4:31 am PT
Review:  I think I will make this short, and to the point. This game sucks no-two-ways-about-it. 
  
  On purchasing the game one immediately finds the game to be all about the title screen and no action 
 or substance behind it. Quite literally, the action is about as solid as the old LCD games I played 
 as a child, where once you learned the enemy's pattern of movement, there is nothing left to do 
 but repeatedly press the buttons until you get bored.
  
  The shopping/tool making interface is clunky, and the save feature needs a corresponding load feature. 
 During game play, enemies are too difficult to kill with some weapons, too easy with others, and 
 there are really only about 8 maps which the game relies on to spin it's thin plot. The gameplay 
 becomes VERY repetitive very quickly; the title has no 'cute factor' and not enough Thenchu fan 
 appeal to fall back on.
  
  Oh... one point of opinion... If this game were supposed to happen in the southern parts of the US 
 the dialog would be spot-on, but in feudal Japan, neither Samurai nor peasant would be caught dead 
 speaking these lines... they are is worse than old Godzilla dubs!
  
  I loved the original Tenchu but I think this release will do more to hurt future Tenchu games then 
 it did helping them. I bought it on the release day... Sad to me, and sad to the others who did 
 the same. Please save your money because this game does not have enough play value to consider 
 buying it with intent to trade it in later... As it stands, I will be in my local store game store 
 dumping Tenchu: Dark Secret before you have finished reading my review.
  
  Cheers,
  Ra-Qin 
::::::

::::::
UserName: leo778
Rating: 3
Date: Aug 27, 2006 10:14 pm PT
Review:  Overall this game is pretty lame.
  
  Gameplay:
  Two good things: The actual ninja fighting is kinda nifty -- setting traps, and sneaking up on people. 
 Being able to make your own ninja gear is kinda fun too. But still... it gets old after a very 
 short while.
  Overall: Crappy gameplay. You play many missions that are practically the same with some slight 
 variations over and over and over and over again.
  (As of this writing, I haven't played the multiplayer, and I probably never will -- seeing as single 
 player sucks, and you need multiple cards to play with other people.)
  
  Graphics:
  Eh... not that good, but not so horrible that it makes your eyes bleed. Sometimes it's hard to 
 tell if it's a smudge from the pixelated ground texture, or if you're looking at yourself. I dislike 
 that you can't see very far, and have to depend on the mini-map to locate enemies.
  
  Sound and Music:
  Annoying and repetitive. 
  Plot: The Plot is uninteresting and predictable. 
 So that's basically it. Not really that fun of a game. Definitely not worth the money. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: zcds
Rating: 3.8
Date: Aug 27, 2006 11:25 am PT
Review:  Who thought bringing this back on the ds was a good idea. The first stealth game to hit the ds 
 is a mess in every way. It looks ugely, its blockey, muddey, and every one looks blockey. You get 
 two chariters to chose from but it hardly changes up the bad gameplay. Missions are either way 
 to easey due to brain dead AI or will get you really angery and wanna make you throw your ds to 
 a wall or something. They also begen to fell the same after a wile. Some might wonder with 40 missions 
 is this a good thing? The storey is just as boring as the missions. The way the two chariters are 
 presentid is blan and shows hardly nothing of them. Online play is a joke. A store is nothing and 
 tradeing is near pointless sence you can get it your self or beat the game with out it. Multi player 
 is alright. But nothing to get friends and play. The game is a mess from start to finish. The only 
 parts that look good is the comic style cartoons. Music sounds garbeld and distrortid. it sounds 
 like a score is trying to come out but often sounds li8ke looping one insterment music on a tap 
 recorder. The is a mess from start to finish. Nothing can come out of this and make you wanna buy 
 it. Theres tones of more games worth your money. Try star fox. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: petersen98374
Rating: 4.7
Date: Aug 25, 2006 8:10 pm PT
Review:  I like my DS games to make good use of the touch screen. This doesn't. It just shows your map and 
 your items. You can use the touch screen to select your item, BUT THATS IT!
  
  If you can play multiplayer on a LOCAL WI-FI, why not on the INTERNET WI-FI? Don't tout this as 
 an Internet WI-FI game if all you can do is buy/sell/trade items!
  I bought this games just because of the WI-FI. Then I found out that it is NOT multi player. The 
 WI-FI option is a joke.
  
  This could have been a GBA game. It probably started out that way. It IS nice to have the map on 
 the lower screen, but it is not really needed. The graphics could have been better. Everything 
 is so small, it is hard to know what is going on.
  
  I'm into the running around and killing people types of games, but if you are, you might like it. 
 This is not my type of game. Even if it was, I would be disappointed at the lack of DS features. 
 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
