-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Tetris DS
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/ds/puzzle/tetris/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 Great selection of modes.
 Online play.
 Amazing game sharing.
 Dude! it's Tetris.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 Compromising gameplay options that can't be turned off.
 Minimal customization options.
 Meager mode selection online.
 Dude? It's Tetris.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Mar 17, 2006
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 7.5
Critic Score: 8.7, 60 Review (s)
User Score: 8.5, 1,991 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Nintendo
Genre: Stacking Puzzle
Date: Mar 20, 2006
ESRB: Everyone

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
It's a much better version of Tetris than other recent incarnations, but it's still saddled with 
 some unfortunate compromises. 

  There is a distinct chance that, were it not for Tetris, there would not be a Nintendo DS. Though 
 there were superior versions of Alexei Pajitnov's elegant and dangerously addictive puzzle game 
 available on other platforms, Tetris for the original Game Boy was  the  reason to buy Nintendo's 
 first handheld. Considering the significance of Tetris to Nintendo's handheld legacy, it's a little 
 surprising that it took this long for it to show up on the DS. Tetris DS features a great variety 
 of gameplay variants and online play, and is absolutely smothered in 8-bit Nintendo nostalgia; 
 yet the package makes enough minor, obvious mistakes to keep it from being absolutely essential. 

          Tetris DS hopes that you like thinking about old Nintendo games while you play Tetris. 
     

  We're just going to assume here that you've played Tetris before -- however, for those who haven't 
 played Tetris since it was rendered in green-and-grey on the Game Boy, some changes have been made 
 to the formula. Top of the list is the introduction of the hold box, which lets you take the active 
 piece in play and put it to the side for later use; it can be a lifesaver when you have a piece 
 that won't fit snugly into your playfield, or when you're setting yourself up for a four-line Tetris. 
 Another less obvious and more damaging change is the infinite spin. This was a "feature" we first 
 discovered in THQ's Tetris Worlds, where, even when a piece had touched down, you could keep it 
 in play by constantly rotating it. It's a genuinely awful thing, though the infinite spin issue 
 honestly really affects only a few of the single-player gameplay modes in Tetris DS, because any 
 competitive mode requires you to lay down pieces as quickly as humanly possible. It's still incredibly 
 bothersome that this quirk seems to be on its way to becoming Tetris canon.  

  There's also the hard drop, which will instantly place the piece in play at the bottom of the playfield 
 when you tap up on the D pad, as well as the ghost piece, which shows a translucent projection 
 of the piece in play on the bottom of the playfield. Both of these are pretty minor and can actually 
 be turned off, though oddly, the hold box and the infinite spin cannot. The general lack of customization 
 is rather glaring throughout Tetris DS. Sure, there's a number of unique gameplay modes here, but 
 by simply including the option to let the player tweak some of the settings, that number could 
 have increased exponentially.  

  What's even more immediately striking than these fundamental gameplay tweaks is the presentation 
 of Tetris DS, as Nintendo has plastered the game with all kinds of classic 8-bit Nintendo sights 
 and sounds. It covers the basics with themes based on Super Mario Bros., The Legend of Zelda, Donkey 
 Kong, and Metroid, though it also includes themes based on less well-known properties like Excitebike, 
 Balloon Fight, and Yoshi's Cookie. Ultimately, the biggest problem with the presentation is that 
 it banks too much on nostalgia, and frankly, we don't always want to listen to the Super Mario 
 Bros. music on loop while we play Tetris. A lot of the themes are inexorably linked to specific 
 gameplay modes, which means that if you don't much care for a certain piece of music, you're going 
 to want to stay away from certain modes.  

  The single-player game is divvied up into six different styles of play, many of which contain several 
 distinct modes. Standard Tetris is about as close to vanilla Tetris as you'll find in Tetris DS, 
 and the modes contained within it are, well, pretty standard. Marathon challenges you to clear 
 200 lines, line clear lets you set the drop speed and the number of uncleared lines you start with, 
 and VS CPU puts you up against some artificial intelligence that quickly goes from grade school 
 to diabolical Tetris mastermind. Push, which can be played against the CPU or a live opponent, 
 puts an interesting spin on standard two-player Tetris by having both players share the same baseline. 
 Clearing lines pushes the baseline closer to the top of your opponent's field (which, from your 
 perspective, looks like the bottom of your own field) until one of you runs out of room.  

  The touch style will have you pulling out your stylus and using it to slide around and rotate pieces 
 that are already on the playfield in order to clear lines. Touch features two modes. Tower presents 
 you with a massive pile of jumbled-up pieces that you'll have to clear in order to bring precious 
 freedom to a cage of balloons -- yup, balloons -- while touch puzzle gives you a relatively limited 
 number of pieces to work with, but challenges you to completely clear out the entire playfield, 
 and without the ability to rotate pieces. While identifiable as Tetris only because of the familiarity 
 of the piece shapes, both of the touch modes can be fun, though the touch puzzle mode provides 
 an especially satisfying, and occasionally maddening, challenge. There's also a non-touch puzzle 
 mode, in which you're presented with a field with a number of lines already on it, and then given 
 a few specific pieces to use in order to completely clear the field. There are 200 unique puzzles, 
 which slowly but surely increase in complexity, and they can be just as crazymaking as the touch 
 puzzles.  

  The mission style, which can be played in a marathon or time trial mode, starts off like a regular 
 game of Tetris, though simply clearing lines isn't enough to advance you. While your playfield 
 resides on the lower screen, the top screen presents you with specific tasks that you must complete 
 in order to advance. Sometimes you'll need to clear a number of lines with a single, specific piece, 
 sometimes you'll need to clear one line without rotating any pieces -- whatever the challenge, if 
 you don't do it in a timely manner, the game will punish you by adding lines to the bottom of the 
 field. Though superb for sharpening your Tetris chops, it can also be confusing, as some of the 
 task descriptions aren't completely concise, and some of the tasks themselves can just be totally 
 frustrating to actually pull off.  

  Lastly, there's catch, which only barely resembles Tetris -- though, unlike the touch games, catch 
 just isn't much fun. You're given a four-block core that you can move and rotate at will on the 
 lower screen, while pieces slowly descend from the top screen. When they reach the lower screen, 
 you can attach them to your core just by letting them touch down. The goal here is to create solid 
 four-by-four sets of blocks, which when created will explode, simultaneously advancing your score 
 and bringing the size of your cluster back down to a manageable one. Things get complicated as 
 more pieces start to fall along with block-destroying obstacles, but the pacing never really speeds 
 up adequately, and the whole thing just starts to feel like a grind.  

  A few of the modes mentioned have multiplayer components as well, and you can play standard, mission, 
 and push games against other players locally -- best of all, the other players don't even need to 
 have copies of the game. Tetris DS features some of the best game sharing we've seen on the Nintendo 
 DS, allowing up to 10 people to participate in massive, competitive games of Tetris. The local 
 multiplayer is also one of the few places in Tetris DS where you can actually make modifications 
 to the rules, most notably the ability to form between two teams of five and five teams of two, 
 and the ability to turn on or off items. The items, which can have positive and negative effects 
 ranging from giving you nothing but straight pieces for a limited time to preventing an opponent 
 from rotating their pieces, can be picked up by clearing lines that contains special flashing blocks, 
 and can be stored until you activate them with the X button.  

          Sure, it's the only online puzzle game for the DS, but it still feels like a missed opportunity. 
     

  The local multiplayer is hands down the best thing going for Tetris DS, which should say a lot 
 about the quality of the game's online multiplayer. Yes, Tetris DS is online-enabled, though it's 
 kind of underwhelming, since there are only three different modes, none of which you can modify. 
 There's standard two-player, two-player push, and standard four-player with items. You want to 
 play a two-player game, but with items? Or maybe you want to play a three-player game? With Tetris 
 DS, you're out of luck. For what it's worth, the online experience worked well enough, but by comparison 
 to the local multiplayer offered, it just seems poorly realized.  

  Tetris DS has a lot going for it -- plenty of gameplay modes, amazing game sharing, and online play -- which 
 makes it all the more disappointing that it contains no "pure" Tetris experience, and features 
 a weak selection of online gameplay modes. But still, it's Tetris, one of the most popular and 
 significant puzzle games ever, and some of the magic that put it in such a venerable position still 
 manages to shine through.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (164 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: Shy_Guy_Red
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 15, 2009 3:27 am PT
Review:  Tetris is one of the most famous games out there and to this day goes down as one of the greatest. 
 In Tetris DS, many great new modes are added to make the Tetris formula much more enjoyable and 
 for a much longer time. These new modes makes Tetris DS one of the best games for the system, I 
 still play it to this day.
  
  Let's start with the new modes, Tetris DS has the same old Tetris mode and its as fun as ever, 
 but on top of that, there are 5 modes that are equally as fun as Tetris. The first is a 2 screen 
 Tetris dual, in which 2 players play Tetris on each other and try to push the other to the top 
 of the screen. It is all right but nothing much.
  
  The next new mode is Mission Mode, in which you must complete various missions in a time limit. 
 It is a great new addition to Tetris and something that you can spend lots of time on.
  
  Next we have Catch, in which the player is a small Tetris piece, and the goal is to form a 4 by 
 4 square in the time limit. It is very fun and one of the better new modes that you will spend 
 lots of time on.
  
  After that we have Puzzle, a mode in which you are given a puzzle, a number of pieces, and must 
 find a way to solve the puzzles with those pieces. It is the big thinking one and you will never 
 finish all the puzzles because there are just so many of them, it will take up lots of your time.
 
  
  The final new mode, and my personal favorite mode, is Touch Mode. As the title states, you must 
 use the touch screen to play a form of Tetris. It is quite fun and like puzzle, is a real thinking 
 mode, and I also just like the touch screen control.
  
  But by far, the best part about Tetris DS, is its online. You must be thinking, how does Tetris 
 go with online? Simple really, ITEMS! Yes, Tetris DS has multiplayer as well as online, and both 
 feature items, and they make Tetris really really fun. The items make the game more chaotic and 
 it makes playing with friends an absolute blast!
  
  Tetris DS has a retro style, as its graphics and music are all retro based. As a Nintendo fan, 
 I loved this. The music is amazing, I love to just listen to it, it's great. The graphics are nothing 
 special, but there's really nothing wrong with them.
  
  Tetris DS is simply a great Tetris game. There are no flaws whatsoever for one thing. Tetris is 
 there, but with all sorts of modes as well as online and multiplayer that make the Tetris experience 
 last a whole lot longer and be much more fun, it is pretty much, the perfect sequel to Tetris.
 
  
  Final Score: 8.25 + New Modes (1.00) + Online/Multiplayer (1.00) - Nothing = 10.00 
::::::

::::::
UserName: brawl_96
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 7, 2008 7:01 pm PT
Review:  first i wanna say that i picked best in the series cuz that felt rite, this game is also a masterpiece, 
 instant classic, amazing, and just plain fun.
  this game has tons of features that the replay value is INFINITY!!!!!
  the first time u get 200 
 lines u get sooo excited not from ur accomplishment, but from seeing all the cool classic games 
 in the background.
  if ur debating if u should get this game.......... hey i bought it for 50$!!!! (ebay)
  i would 
 buy this over loz: oot!!!!
  BUY IT!
  this game will last u over 100 years, because TETRIS DS never gets old!!!!
  if u hav da fone 
 version (like me) its still worth it to buy this game.
  if u like tetris get this game, if u dont like tetris... get this game
  this is better than the 
 gb tetris
  even if ur the biggest noob ever get this game, if ur hardcore get this game
  P. S one of the rarest ds games of all time!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: severndigital
Rating: 7
Date: Oct 24, 2008 4:26 am PT
Review:  I picked it up for like $10 at game crazy. For 10 bucks it is a fun game, I would be upset if I 
 payed 30 or 40 for this.
  
  The Wi-Fi option is pretty cool, but It would be better if there were "rooms" and you could play 
 in a ranked ladder mode or something. Because the way it is now, you get put up against people 
 with 4000 wins.
  
  The touch games are neat ideas, I just wish there was more depth. sc
  for that matter, I wish there was more depth to the whole game.
  
  The one thing I really don't 
 understand is the use of the top screen for displaying some very non-related game play graphics. 
 Why do I need to see Mario running across the screen jumping at blocks? How about throwing some 
 neat stats up there, like total blocks on screen, or total tetris' for the game or whatever.
  
  
  
  But I still find myself putting it in and playing it, tetris has always been great 
 for that 5 min fix. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Man-thing
Rating: 6.5
Date: Sep 1, 2008 4:14 pm PT
Review:  I played the original tetris until my left thumb hurt and I had to quit. I played both NES and 
 Gameboy versions to an extent I can barely compare to newer games. It's basics are so simple but 
 still pull you in (I have lately been playing my NES version again) . This new version for the DS 
 is fun but has a few changes to these originals. You can for instance see a few blocks ahead in 
 the "Next" screen and you can replace and store a block with L or R. This is OK but somehow feels 
 wrong to me. The game play changes a little with these two new elements. I for one can't say I 
 think ahead three turns (It is why I am lousy at chess) . In multiplayer you feel these chances 
 the most. Maybe it would have been more fun leaving those things out.
  Still Tetris DS is fun, has a lot of modes and comes with online multiplayer. I haven't experienced 
 any lag yet and the matches feel a bit like those in multiplayer Puyopop (with the whole "blocks 
 appear when your enemy gets tetris") For me a normal or classic mode would have been great but 
 what you get is decent enough. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DJWildduck
Rating: 7.5
Date: Aug 15, 2008 11:05 am PT
Review:  You should be a genius to ruin the formula of the original Tetris, which is really simple, but 
 incredibly addictive. Thanks to Alexey Pajitnov, Tetris still remains one of the best games ever 
 created, and Tetris DS does justice to the original.
  
  Like many reviewers say, 'It's Tetris'. And yeah, there's nothing else to say about it. So, the 
 only thing left to desrcibe is what comes besides the original game.
  
  The overall style is made around different Nintendo mascots, especially their 8-bit versions. So, 
 expect some Mario-, Link- and Samus-based stage styles and themes.
  
  There's a multiplayer and a wi-fi mode here, so you can play with somebody else whenever you want. 
 That's a plus, but only if you want some live challenge.
  
  The variety of modes is not that large, but the modes themselves are very interesting. Yet, if 
 you already own a version of Tetris, doesn't matter if it's a newer one or one of the classic editions 
 - it's still the same game, so don't bother getting this one.
  
  Otherwise, if you hadn't ever played Tetris before (which means that you're probably younger than 
 10 years old) , then this version is good enough for presenting one of the best games ever to the 
 unexperienced player. The only thing that it's lacking - is the original Tetris tunes. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mos333
Rating: 6
Date: Aug 3, 2008 7:21 am PT
Review:  It's Tetris. Almost anybody who's been even remotely exposed to video games during the last 20 
 years or so knows Tetris. Blocks of different shapes fall one at a time from the sky, and you arrange 
 them in a way that will form perfect lines across the screen. The lines then disappear, clearing 
 more space on the screen to drop blocks, and giving you points. If you can set up a situation where 
 your next piece will clear 4 lines at once, you score a "Tetris" which grants you a large point 
 bonus, plays a fancy sound effect, and makes you feel good about yourself in general. The speed 
 gradually increases and the game quickly moves from relaxed to hectic. It's simple, yet incredibly 
 addictive and popular.
  
  Tetris for the DS doesn't mess too much with the formula, so it all really should boil down to 
 whether you like original Tetris gameplay or not. Frankly, Tetris DS isn't much fun. There's the 
 main mode, Tetris mode, where you're doing what you usually do in Tetris, as described above. This 
 is quite honestly, the only real mode worth playing, and even then it has it's faults.
  
  The other options are less interesting: "Puzzle" mode essentially provides you with a screen full 
 of blocks and several pieces which, when rotated and placed properly, can clear the screen. "Mission" 
 mode essentially makes requests of you as you play classic Tetris, such as "Clear 3 lines at once" 
 or "Clear two lines using a piece of this type (such as the 'square' or 'L-shaped' pieces) ."
  
  Although designed to increase play time and introduce some variety within the game, the modes 
 often feel too gimmicky, too easy, or they don't follow the Tetris formula as well as they could.
 
  
  The whole game is based on other popular Nintendo franchises, with music from those games is usually 
 playing in the background, rather than the much loved Tetris tune. This makes the game feel like 
 an advertising showcase for the other franchises, essentialy stripping the Tetris singularity from 
 the game. It's not really a Tetris game anymore.
  
  The game also tells you the next few blocks that'll fall out of the sky. Although we've had the 
 option to remove this function in previous games, that option has been removed here, for whatever 
 reason.
  
  The multiplayer is simply good, and not much better than good. You're just competing against other 
 players to see who can survive the longest while you send blocks over to your opponent's screens; 
 it gets old fast. This has been borrowed from Meteos, a game borrowing aspects from Tetris itself 
 and recreating them to form a game that's actually fun to play. WiFi play in Tetris feels incomplete, 
 supporting only 4 players, plagued with disconnecting players and limited features.
  
  Besides the multiplayer and nostalgia factor, there's not much good to say about Tetris DS. Nintendo 
 haven't done the original much justice, which is rather unfortunate, because you probably wont 
 be seeing another Tetris game for a long time. Tetris DS doesn't provide enough to keep you interested 
 for longer than 3 minutes at a time. Stick to Meteos. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Jamez634
Rating: 8
Date: Jun 17, 2008 12:07 am PT
Review:  I got Tetris DS as a present and I looked at the cover. It looked pretty boring. I mean, Tetris? 
 On the DS? I have played Tetris on my PC and I didn't find it that good. But I gave it a go and 
 WOW. This game is fantastic! The game has six different game modes of Tetris with a host of classic 
 Nintendo characters. In this review, I'll tell you about all the six game modes which I hope will 
 give you a good idea of the game.
  
  STANDARD
  Standard mode is just plain Tetris. You use the arrows to move your block and B or A to rotate 
 it. The controls suit the game and it makes it flow very easily. The weird thing is that while 
 you play Tetris on the touch screen, Mario is having some fun on the top screen. Say there was 
 a gameplay video of Super Mario on the Gameboy Colour, Nintendo have just stuck it on the top screen 
 (check out some Gamespot gameplay videos if you don't know what I mean) . You wonder if Nintendo 
 had trouble thinking of something to put on the top screen. Anyway, as you progress in Standard 
 Mode, the gameplay videos on the top screen change, like into Zelda or Metroid.
  
  PUSH
  The aim of "Push" is to push the CPU's blocks back into him and for some reason, set him on fire. 
 On the top screen you're playing Tetris just trying to clear lines as is the CPU on the touch screen. 
 This is pretty simple. Just play Tetris normally and I can guarantee that you will beat the CPU 
 (and somehow set him on fire) .
  
  CATCH
  Catch is a Metroid theme. You get a Tetris block as you move along a 2D Metroid world. As you fly 
 through, other Tetris blocks are coming down. You have to catch them and they stick to your block. 
 Eventually, your block will get really big so when you get the chance, press the X button to make 
 your block smaller. This is how you get points for this mode.
  
  TOUCH
  Yes, the Tetris DS has a touch mode luckily! In Touch Mode there is a tower of Tetris blocks and 
 by using your stylus you have to move the blocks and clear a line which makes your tower get shorter. 
 When you have completely demolished your tower you have completed it. There are five levels in 
 this.
  
  PUZZLE
  In Puzzle there are some blocks on the top screen. You have to clear all of them by touching the 
 blocks on the touch screen. That's right, you have to touch the blocks in a certain order to make 
 them wizz up to the top screen and clear those lines.
  
  MISSION
  Last, but not least is Mission. Say it said "Clear twenty lines using the square blocks", that's 
 what you'd have to do on the bottom screen with normal Tetris. In this, there's just a load of 
 missions you have to complete.
  
  So, there you have it. The aim of the game is just to make records and then beat them. I think 
 Nintendo have done a great job of bringing Tetris to the DS.
  
  RATING: 8.0 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ZanarkandTidus
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 2, 2008 4:45 pm PT
Review:  Tetris is a game that has been on almost every console, so why should you buy this version?
  
  The presentation makes the game more fun. You can play Tetris and watch gameplay footage of 
 classic Nintendo Entertainment System games on the top screen, such as Super Mario Bros, the Legend 
 of Zelda, Metroid, Excitebike and a few others. For the first 100 lines you see gameplay footage of 
 Super Mario Bros and every 10 lines it changes to Zelda, Metroid and other NES classics and after 
 190 lines you see the Russian style building from the original Gameboy Tetris and hear the original 
 GB Tetris music for 10 lines and it goes back to Super Mario Bros again and repeats the process. The 
 music for all the games is there to remind you of a classical age of gaming.
  
  There is extra gameplay elements (which people see as a good or bad thing such as;
  
  The ghost 
 piece which allows you to save a piece to use for later and adds an element of strategy, but can 
 make the game too easy when you master how to use it. You can turn the ghost piece off though.
 
  
  The endless piece rotation, you can keep rotating a piece endless times after it has hit the bottom 
 until you decide where you want it and it makes things too easy at times. However when pieces drop 
 extremely fast you actually have a chance to see what your doing and make a decision properly. You 
 cannot turn this option off but they should have allowed you for traditional Tetris fans.
  
  You see which pieces will be coming 3 pieces ahead of time. It helps plan your strategy better 
 but takes away some of the guess work involved that was part of the original Tetris.
  
  There is other Tetris type games included too and some are pretty fun.
  
  Push Tetris is really 
 fun (you and your opponent need to make lines to push your opponent back a certain distance to win. A 
 single line does a little push but a quadruple line (Tetris) does a push many times bigger (1/4 of 
 the screen) but it is risky to wait for the opportunity to do it. You need to be opportunistic and 
 take advantage of 2 and 3 line opportunities to get that little bit extra push and it becomes quite 
 strategic.
  
  There is a puzzle game where you need to fit all the tetris pieces perfectly.
  
  And other 
 games that are worth trying out.
  
  The Nintendo theme just makes the game more fun to play.
  
  Donkey Kong even makes an appearance 
 on the Push Tetris game, and he is even in the same type of environment in the classic Donkey Kong.
 
  
  The game actually has an ending now, you can set the options so when you get to 200 lines you win (and 
 see an nice ending) , or you can set the options so you keep playing after 200 lines.
  
  The only flaw with the game is that when the pieces start coming down very fast, they almost instantaneously 
 hit the bottom and it's hard to get them to drop down on the side of the valley you want (even if 
 you press the D-Pad extremely hard) That's why I think the endless rotation is a good thing.
  
  Also the price was a bit much for a Tetris title when it first came out too.
  
  But overall 
 it's my favorite Tetris game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: NirdBerd
Rating: 10
Date: May 19, 2008 7:05 am PT
Review:  Tetris on the DS is not just a ported game of Tetris from the classic systems, such as the Commodore 
 64, Gameboy and the NES, it's all been revamped with more than one mode, but 5 more new ones, they 
 certainly give a new taste of what else Tetris can do, even though they all aren't extremely fun, 
 it's there just in case you want a new feel of what else Tetris can do, these new modes are Catch, 
 Puzzle, Touch, Push and Mission, aswell as the Standard version of Tetris. These new modes are 
 pretty much self-explanatory a bit but they require too much detail for me to explain beforehand, 
 but what I will say about these new modes is they're very fun and like I said earlier, it's perfect 
 for anyone who wants to examine what else Tetris can do. There is also an online mode featuring 
 the Standard Tetris mode, 1 on 1 in which you clear lines to place the cleared amount into the 
 opponents screen, making your opponents Tetris field harder by filling it up with more Tetriminos 
 as you clear your own field. There is a Push mode, which like I said is self-explanatory until 
 you get the game, this mode is also very fun for the new taste of Tetris. The final mode you can 
 play on on Nintendo WFC is a 4 Player Standard mode, close to what the standard Tetris 1 on 1 mode, 
 except this one includes items, a Starman which gives you the long Tetrimino for easy line clearing 
 for 10 seconds-ish, a Turbo Mushroom similar to Mario Karts, it speeds up your enemies Tetriminos 
 making it slightly more difficult, a Red Shell, which when you activate clears your 2 bottom lines, 
 and a Banana Skin which rearranges -- randomly -- every block on your Tetris Field, which may somewhat 
 confuse you.
  
  The games buttons are very simple, the D-Pad arrows Left, Right, Up and Down are used to move the 
 blocks, except for the Up arrow, which automatically sends your tetrimino to the bottom of the 
 field, buying you more time.. The A is to rotate a shape clockwise, as opposed to the B button 
 which rotates a shape counter-clockwise. The L and R shoulder buttons are just to reserve a tetrimino 
 block, if you feel you have nowhere decent to place a tetrimino you can press either of the shoulder 
 buttons and move onto the next one, however when you 'reserve' your next tetrimino, the previous 
 one you reserved will be the block you have to use. Simple stuff.
  
  The graphics are fresh and pretty for a Tetris game, each block has their own colour and each Level 
 on Tetris is themed by a classic NES game on the top screen, bare in mind you don't control the 
 top screen, it's just to give you more colour to the game and motivation to keep your lips smiling 
 as you play this great game. Back on topic, the colours are really fresh and there aren't any graphical 
 glitches. Being the Tetris game it is, this is some of the best, clean visuals you will see on 
 a Tetris game.
  
  The music has introduced us to some memorable tunes from the NES, but slightly higher quality, 
 meaning these sounds aren't 8-Bit, but you know when you hear the music, that it's from the 8-Bit 
 classics. These ported, then upgraded tunes are only slightly sharper than the original, these 
 themes are in no way disappointing, so they should meed your satisfaction. You'll mostly hear Super 
 Mario Bros theme songs, however, the new modes are inspired by different 8-Bit heroes, complete 
 with their beautiful theme, for example; Catch mode is inspired by Metroid, Mission is inspired 
 by Zelda, Standard is inspired by Mario, and so on.
  
  Complete with fresh, new graphics, a better gameplay system, outstanding music and online mode, 
 this will beat your expectations for a Tetris game, it's quite simply the best. Anyone who owns 
 a Nintendo DS should pick up Tetris DS. Tetris DS should be one of the few reasons why you actually 
 bought a DS. Buy it. Now.
  
  Gameplay: 10/10
  Graphics: 10/10
  Sound: 10/10
  Value: 10/10
  Story: N/A
  
  Overall Score: 10/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TheAcejoel99
Rating: 7.5
Date: Apr 27, 2008 9:16 pm PT
Review:  Well it's tetris and it's on the DS, but with a twist, there are a few new modes, including the 
 classic tetris you know and love. Tetris in itself is a great game, that is a time-less classic. 
 but they added a touch mode, where you have to move tetris peices that are already on the floor, 
 to clear them away. There is a push mode where two people play tetris, and the better you od the 
 further the tetris is pushed twords your opponent. There is a mission mode, which is pretty stupid, 
 where you do specific missions, like clear 2 lines with a square tetris piece. And a metroid themed 
 mode that I like alot, where you move a big mass of tetris peices that you can move and twist until 
 it explodes. But realy most of these modes you will play a few times and then you will stop playing 
 them and go back to the original tetris, which is the main bulk of the game, and you can also challenge 
 people online, which is kinda neat, but not realy. In the end, it's tetris, so you know what you 
 can expect. But there are no unlockables, or things to complete, youy have everything unlocked 
 from the begining.
  
  Good: It's tetris.
  new modes are fun.
  online works well.
  
  Bad: It's just tetris.
  New modes are fun.... but they won't keep you hooked.
  Online is fun, 
 but it dosen't add much to the package. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: wario-mad
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 25, 2008 9:51 pm PT
Review:  ok to start tetris has been around for along time now and has had many various remakes made from 
 tetris to tetris 3d to tetris dx but none compare to the many hours of intensive gameplay you can 
 get out of tetris ds. tetris ds is the best remake of tetris i have ever encountered as its got 
 lots of good tunes while you play and plenty of challenges to keep you busy. Also the fact you 
 can go past level 20 on this also makes it much more fun for you advanced players out there i myslef 
 personally having a record of level 35. Also the fact that you can play 4 player worldwide using 
 the wifi option means you can really get the best out of tetris and see who else out there can 
 match or better your skill level or your stratergies.
  The various diffrent modes in this game offer alot of hours worth of gameplay especially the push 
 challenge which takes great lengths of time and skill to do on level 3-5. The catch option however 
 was quite boring and really samey and i didnt see the point in it but others of you may have found 
 this fun personally i enjoyed yoshis puzzles and the balloon flight tower games not to mention 
 missions and marathon much more entertaining. One more bonus to this game is you can unlcok various 
 diffrent tracks on this game the more you play when you finally clear 200 lines on marahon you 
 unlock classic tetris soundtrack and the endless marathon mode. Another good thing about the wifi 
 option is its got a scoring system to say who the more adavanced players are the only downside 
 being of course you cant choose your enemy and there are people who tend to turn off when there 
 loosing. all in all though this game has so many hours of gameplay and so much to do and complete 
 you can spend hours on end playing so long as your battery does'nt die :D 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ledime
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 5, 2008 11:01 am PT
Review:  Tetris DS has so many modes and things to do in it, you will be wondering why you haven't even 
 heard of this game! This game has Nintendo characters all over it, but no one has ever seem to 
 have heard of it before. I wonder why.
  
  Anyway, Tetris DS has hours and hours of gameplay jam-packed into one tiny little cartridge. The 
 music get's 10/10, no doubt about it. This game has all of your favorite classic tunes revamped 
 into perfect gaming music.
  
  The graphics are good. They aren't the best but they're top notch for 2-D games. There are several 
 different modes so if you get bored of one mode, you can just move on to the next.
  
  This game is a must buy for any Tetris fan, Mario fan, or just about anyone. Using all of the different 
 game modes will help you master Tetris and will also make you a strong competitor on Wi-fi. This 
 game is a must have. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Bobojaws
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 1, 2008 9:27 am PT
Review:  I love tetris. Stacking different shaped blocks to make lines doesn't sound fun, and maybe it really 
 isn't, but it is darn addictive and so i love it!
  Tetris ds is awesome. AWESOME. It has so much stuff to do so many modes, it will last forever in 
 your ds if your a fan of tetris like me. YOu may even get hooked on tetris like me if you let tetris 
 get into your mind! I let my older sister pay it once and now she practically has my ds 24/7! Ok 
 let's start with the modes there are in this game. First there is Standard tetris mode, basically 
 stack blocks to make lines. there are some sub modes to it but your still doing the same thing. 
 There is then catch mode which has you moving and rotating and catching falling blocks to not form 
 lines but 4x4 squares. This offers something defferent than your standard tetris and while it isn't 
 as good and standard tetris it is pretty good in it's own right.
  Then there is touch mode which is where you touch and pull and tap the tetriminos to make them 
 move and rotate and make lines. The same as catch mode it just offers more to do than standard 
 block stacking. Also in touch mode there is puzzle touch which are puzzles which require you to 
 make lines or do some othere objective using the blocks available. Some puzzles are hard and some 
 are easy, but i have fallen in love with this mode... i love puzzles. There is also mission mode 
 which has you stacking blocks with certain objectives like "clear 2 lines with this block" or sumthing 
 like that. Mission mode has a time limit for each objective and so as the speed increases things 
 can get brutal and while i'd say this isn't a mode i play that much it's still pretty fun. Another 
 mode, and this is a seperate mode on it's own, is puzzle mode which is where you have to clear 
 all the lines with certain blocks, again i love puzles so i love this mode. The last mode is push. 
 Which has you making lines of 2 or more at a time to push the tetriminos towards the computer controlled 
 opponent. this mode is pretty fun but the computer opponent can be real brutal on those harder 
 levels. There is also multiplayer mode which is a blast, where you can play standard tetris (with 
 items) , mission mode and push mode with friends. 
  The graphics aren't a stunner but there very nostalgic and so i love them since i love mario! Every 
 mode has a different theme to it from Samus Aran to Ballon Fighter. The sound again is nastalgic 
 with catchy mario tunes etc.
  Any way this game is fun, with six main modes, if you let it, it may consume your life. Either 
 way it's just fun to pick up and play once and a while and never really get's boring. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: adeehr01eb
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 24, 2007 12:34 pm PT
Review:  What can be said about Tetris that hasn't already been mentioned. The game is super addictive and 
 fun to play for hours on end. Not only that but it keeps your brain moving and helps keep hand 
 eye coordination in tact. Add the element of online play and bingo, you have a fantastic game!
 
  
  That is the one thing that made me want to play Tetris DS, online ability. Either it being with 
 my wife or with a random player online, the wi-fi enabled feature makes this game infinitaly replayable, 
 not that it wasn't already.
  
  I have found myself with only a few minutes to spare picking it up and quickly finding a match 
 online to play. That is the definition of addictive. I love how your score can jump so high by 
 beating a better player or not lose much in ranking if you lose to that much better player. It 
 seems very balanced just like the rest of the game.
  
  Buy it. That's all this review comes down to. If you at all like Tetris and have a wi-fi hot spot 
 you NEED this game. You can thank me later. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Leonidas123
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 21, 2007 2:06 pm PT
Review:  Pretty much everyone knows Tetris, but this game really surprised me in a very positive way. Unlike 
 other versions of console 2D-Tetris, this one offers a large number of play modes, some more interesting, 
 some less, but more importantly, the game is fast and controls are almost perfect.
  
  The game consists of six game modes, standard, push, mission, catch, puzzle and touch. The first 
 three are your standard version of Tetris, each one offering a different Nintendo theme (graphics, 
 music) , as well as different gameplay.
  
  Standard: Unlimited, Line clear, VS CPU
  Push: Vs CPU
  Mission: TIme trial, Marathon
  
  The next mode, mission is sortof inverted 
 Tetris, since you control a platform and need to catch falling pieces instead. I didn't like this 
 mode much because it can take forever to finish.
  
  The last two modes also involve the use of the touch screen. In puzzle mode you get a few tetriminos 
 and you need to clear a block by using them in the right order/direction. It's an interesting mode 
 but you can finish by simply retrying over and over, which makes it kind of pointless. 200 puzzles 
 total.
  
  The other mode is touch, which presents you with a tall tower of already placed Tetriminos which 
 you need to clear up with your stylus by aligning them properly. This mode is very funny, but you 
 have to work real hard to reach high scores, particularly on higher difficulty levels. Then there 
 is also touch puzzle mode, which presents you with a set of tetriminos you need to clear up by 
 following instructions. 50 puzzles here.
  
  The graphics in this game are completely adequate, the tetriminos look like they are made of plastic, 
 and the rest is very much in retro style.
  
  The music is a weak spot since you kinda get used to it, and it becomes boring and repetitive after 
 a while, particularly if you like to play certain modes at certain difficulty modes, but then again 
 you can just turn it off.
  
  Another weak spot is the score board, since the game only remembers the highest score reached. 
 WIth so many game modes and some of them pretty hard I would have liked to see an extended score 
 board.
  
  Same goes with options screen, which only has two options, to turn off hard drop and ghost piece. 
 I would have liked to see more options, like disabling the Hold box, and infinite rotation, both 
 of which are apparently hard-coded.
  
  Nevertheless, this is a great DS game nobody should leave home without. It's definitely a cartridge 
 I'm taking along with my DS wherever I go. And you should, too!
  
  9/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jiggaloj
Rating: 8.5
Date: Dec 8, 2007 8:33 pm PT
Review:  Ever wanted a game where you never get bored of it and has online multiplayer that is decent and 
 offers good challengers? If yes, then this is your game! I never tire from this game and I don't 
 see how anyone else could (Besides the people who have 9999 wins or 7500 rating on wifi) ! This 
 game offers the classic Tetris we all love along with a couple of new features. These features 
 include a puzzle mode where you try to eliminate all the blocks with a couple of given pieces, 
 a mission mode where the game gives you a specific objective to do (such as clearing a certain 
 amount of lines with a certain block) , a "catch" mode which I really don't care for, and a "touch" 
 mode, which utilizes the touch screen so you can drag pieces to clear the lines. The only thing 
 I don't like about this game is the music. The same stupid mario themed song plays constantly during 
 wifi play (the most fun feature in my opinion) . So all in all I recommend this game to avid fans 
 of Tetris who own a DS or just casual fans of good puzzle games. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Missile129
Rating: 6.5
Date: Nov 15, 2007 11:34 am PT
Review:  What can say? If you like Tetris you should buy this game. It is incredibly addictive and sticks 
 to the classic Tetris theme. It also adds many new gameplay additions such as a Push match and 
 battling against an opponent in regular Tetris.
  
  Of course, the traditional Marathon mode returns with ncreasig difficulty as you progress through. 
 lso returning is Line Clear. 
  
  Online is also very entertaining. If you have Wi-Fi it's sure worth playing a few games with people 
 around the world!
  
  I can' really say anything else except this is one highly addictive game ust like all Tetris games. 
 It' not amazing, but it's far from disappointing. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Erkidu
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 9, 2007 10:22 am PT
Review:  Gameplay:
  
  There is plenty to do in Tetris DS. There are plenty of modes and plenty of options to make those 
 modes even more diverse. The touch screen controls are flawless, and the overall gameplay is reponsive 
 and solid. Plus, there are plenty of twists on the Tetris concept that are alot of fun and really 
 open the door for the franchise to take new directions.
  
  Graphics:
  
  While visuals are definitely not the point with Tetris DS, the game is generally very colorful 
 and aesthetically pleasing, offering a good amount of nostalgia as well.
  
  Value:
  
  Tetris DS offers single-player, single-card multiplayer and online multiplayer. Because of the 
 abundance of these player modes, the game offers plenty of replay value and is well worth the $35 
 you will pay for it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dsplayer1010
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 4, 2007 8:26 pm PT
Review:  Tetris ahs been around for years. And though its gameplay is simple, building blocks to make lines, 
 its proves fun and addictive every time. In Tetris DS, the classic Tetris gameplay is back with 
 some new modes.
  
  The basic Tetris mode is called Standard Mode. Where you try to get as many lines as you can. Push 
 mode has you trying to move the tower of Tetris blocks towards your opponent by getting two lines 
 at a time. Another mode is called Touch mode. In this mode you use the touch screen to move blocks 
 from side-to-side and rotate them to make lines and have the giant cage full of balloons on top 
 hit the bottom. Mission Mode has you get lines in a certain way, like using a square block. Puzzle 
 mode gives you a set of Tetris blocks set up in a certain way. And it gives you a few blocks, that 
 you have to use, in a certain order, in a certain position to clear the screen. The last mode is 
 called catch mode. This is where you control a big pile of Tetris blocks and catch more falling 
 pieces, in an attempt to make a 4 by 4 square. After use do this these blocks and some others disappear 
 from your pile.
  
  There is also multiplayer. There is up to 10-player single cart or multicart local player. This 
 game also has online play. In local play, you can play Standard Mode, Mission Mode, and Push Mode. 
 In online, you can play Standard mode, with or without items, andPpush Mode
  
  That's the review. I reccomend this game to puzzle game fans who don't already own any other version 
 of Tetris.
  
  Gameplay: 9
  Graphics: 7
  Sound: 7
  Value:10
  Tilt: 9 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SolidSnakeFan
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 23, 2007 8:57 pm PT
Review:  Alright, this game is just great. I recently got Wi-Fi, and it's just so addicting to play against 
 other people, although the online mode could be much better.
  
  The new modes (touch, mission, etc.) are awesomely fun. Touch is my favorite, and it's perfect. 
 The graphics are very nice, and outstandingly distracting when you're playing Standard mode and 
 you see Mario jumping around on the top screen, which is very enjoyable. The music is, once again, 
 awesome. Including the original song from Zelda on the NES. The animations for when you eliminate 
 lines are shiny, and yummy for the eyes, haha. It'd be great if they had an online Highscore system 
 though.
  
  Anyways, I definitely recommend this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Master_Chic531
Rating: 10
Date: Sep 16, 2007 8:45 am PT
Review:  tetris for the ds has everything a tetris fan wants. it has great music as well as levels. also 
 the mini games and side missions are especially fun. (my favorite is Push and Touch!!) i am a huge 
 tetris fan and this definatly made it to my top ds games list. not only is it fun single player, 
 but it is also great fun playing multiplayer!!! you can use items or play old school (lol, weird!!! 
 listen to me ramble on!!) online is ok but i perfer to see the person im going against (so i can 
 rub it in there face when i win!! lol just kidding) Anyways, if you love tetris and the ds this 
 game is definate buy for those tetris craving fans!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: aerisol
Rating: 7.5
Date: Aug 19, 2007 9:36 pm PT
Review:  omg i started playing this thinking hmm i have 10 mins to spare maybe ill play my new game, tetris 
 and see what its like. wow i cant believe how addictive it is, i wasnt even that into the old tetris 
 games but somehow this one can keep me entertained for hours, well maybe not quite hours, it is 
 only tetris after all. but still. There are heaps of new variations of tetris on this game including 
 catch where you move a little square around and have to catch falling blocks, and there is push 
 where you vs a computer or another player and you have to complete lines to push them to the top 
 of the screen, and there's standard which is basically the old version only way better looking.
 
  so basically if you enjoyed the old tetris at all or if you have never played tetris (which i doubt 
 anyone hasnt) and like puzzley type block games you will love this. O_O 
::::::

::::::
UserName: -supercharged-
Rating: 8.5
Date: Aug 8, 2007 10:49 am PT
Review:  The gameplay is still the great addicting Tetris we have all become to love. It has a Nintendo 
 theme and the music is a little repetitive but can really get you into match's when the heat is 
 on. There are a few different modes you can choose from but my favorite one would probally be Catch. 
 Which has you moving around a block trying to catch tetriminos falling from the top and you create 
 4x4 sets of blocks then they explode. Overall Tetris DS is very well worth the price of admission. 
 It will keep you entertained for hours especially with WIFI. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Kyro
Rating: 8.8
Date: Jul 28, 2007 2:49 pm PT
Review:  Well what do expect? Reviewers say 'limited this, limited that... where's the good stuf blah blah 
 blah' but, has Tetris been anything more?
  No! When you see Tetris, its not going to be some new advanced, changed graphically now is it? 
 They give you new modes like versus player or cpu, battle modes and an added bonus of not just 
 listening to the beloved Tetris theme repeatedly as you aim to complete the levels. Stop whining, 
 at least they MADE it for the DS! There is also a choice of using the touch screen which is the 
 purpose why Tetris came to DS. It is repeatitive but when has Tetris never been? Tetris FTW! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Trogdor2355
Rating: 6
Date: Jun 24, 2007 7:19 pm PT
Review:  Tetris with a nintendo theme Tetris with a nintendo theme Tetris with a nintendo theme Tetris with 
 a nintendo theme Tetris with a nintendo theme Tetris with a nintendo theme Tetris with a nintendo 
 theme Tetris with a nintendo theme Tetris with a nintendo theme Tetris with a nintendo theme Tetris 
 with a nintendo theme Tetris with a nintendo theme Tetris with a nintendo theme Tetris with a nintendo 
 theme Tetris with a nintendo theme Tetris with a nintendo theme Tetris with a nintendo theme Tetris 
 with a nintendo theme Tetris with a nintendo theme Tetris with a nintendo theme Tetris with a nintendo 
 theme THAT S ALL IT IS!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Pangster007
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jun 7, 2007 8:56 am PT
Review:  This is definitely one of the best Tetris games of recent times. Expect the same original Tetris 
 gameplay but with a few differences.
  
  Firstly, blocks can be delayed from locking into place by persistently rotating the block. Because 
 of this, blocks can now travel across the surfaces within the shape limitations until they get 
 locked. Another, is that you can now hold onto items. Ever played and never survived long enough 
 for that 4-line block to come to clear 4 lines? Well, if you got this block earlier and you didn't 
 want to use it, you can store it by pushing L. When the time comes for you to use it, you push 
 L again, switching with the current block in play. There are also powerups available in connected 
 multiplayer modes.
  
  Then there are many many game modes:
  As well as the standard mode,
  mission mode,
  push mode,
  touch mode,
  catch mode,
  puzzle 
 mode,
  and lastly WIFI.
  
  The different modes are very unique and interesting, you'll see plenty of references from nintendo 
 games such as metroids, zelda, dr mario etc. So on top of the regular tetris, there are other modes 
 and puzzles to keep you occupied, greatly increasing the value of this game. The music is top notch, 
 paying homage to Nintendo classics, however, they can become annoying in puzzle mode.
  
  Mission modes have you needing to clear blocks in a specific way, and you 'level up' along the 
 way. the push mode sees you 'pushing' your oponent off the screen; you are at the top clearing 
 blocks i. e. 'pushing'. The opponent is at the bottom working upwards, 'pushing' you up.
  
  Puzzle and touch modes include a preset arrangement of blocks in which you must clear within that 
 stages criteria. But the most important aspect of this game is the connectivity. Tetris fans can 
 now enjoy loads of competitive gameplay. This game boasts up to 10 players local connected multiplayer 
 which is AWESOME. And you can play online with up to 4 players. This is a big plus for the game. 
 Online tetris owns.
  
  Graphically, this is nothing special. But it doesn't need to be, it's Tetris, a puzzle game!
 
  
  Now, this is the perfect game for a handheld, it can be played in short bursts, or even in long 
 periods as it is so addictive. This game is highly recommended for Tetris fans and for people who 
 like to game occasionally on the go. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Science2000luke
Rating: 5.9
Date: Jun 3, 2007 2:21 pm PT
Review:  Darn it! WHen I bought this, I expected to be able to play the good ol' fashioned Tetris game where 
 I manipulate blocks that come floating down, but NO! Nintendo had to impliment its own signature 
 into this game, thereby adulterating a potentially wonderful Tetris-playing experience.
  
  I would have loved this game if the old fashioned tetris would have been an option. That certainly 
 is an option in Tetris DS, however the background is filled with unnecessary Super Mario beeps, 
 clings and what not! FUrthermore, when that standard game is played, you are assited by non-optional 
 graphics that help you predict where your blocks will fall.
  
  But such things are unnecessary when the whole point of Tetris is to challange your concentration. 
 Such additions are superfluous and deter one from enjoying in a great version of Tetris.
  
  *sigh* I guess the best version of Tetris is the one for the Original Game boy or the one for the 
 NES. Screw this modern fancy-pansy, colorific game! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TicTac8745
Rating: 7.5
Date: May 30, 2007 6:55 pm PT
Review:  Tetris - you know - the game where you attempt to make and clear out lines with those blocks falling 
 from the top of the screen and you keep going until either you over fill your screen or the game 
 crashes because the points counter reaches 9999999999 (quite unlikely) .
  
  Well, Nintendo has went the extra distance to make this simplistic game even bigger than the original. 
 But how can Nintendo do this for a game that can be easily programmed and is being released free 
 on the internet almost every 10 minutes? The answer, put in Nintendo characters, different types 
 of game modes and multiplayer!
  
  As you play throughout the game, the top screen will display a short gameplay clip from a Nintendo 
 game, the games include Super Mario Bros, Zelda and Metriod, and you help the character whether 
 it would be Samus, Mario, Link or someone else get to the end of the map by clearing out lines. 
 However this feature feels tacked on for no apparent reason and the likelihood of you looking at 
 the top screen is unlikely since all the bottom screen is where you play Tetris.
  
  However, the extra game play modes are a nice welcome. There are many type of different game play 
 modes, which include the standard marathon mode and line clearing, but there is also a quest mode 
 (using The Legend of Zelda) , a VS CPU mode where you and the CPU are pitted against to see who 
 can fill up their opponents screen faster, touch mode where you use the stylus to move blocks into 
 place to clear out lines, and a mode similar to tug of war where clearing lines will push more 
 into the opponent's danger territory. With all these features residing in the single player mode, 
 its in the multiplayer where this game really shines. The game supports single card play up to 
 10 players, multi-card play and Nintendo WiFi connect so that you can play anyone around the world. 
 The main mode is clearing out 2 or more lines in order to send extra lines to the opponent and 
 eventually trying to fill their screen up to the point of losing. Multiplayer is a great feature 
 that further extends the life of the game, and is a great way for a group of friends to join up 
 and get into some multiplayer action - be warned, your friends may be extremely peed off by the 
 end.
  
  Overall, Nintendo isn't trying to reinvent the wheel with Tetris - and it's great that they didn't 
 since at the core, this game is still the standard game at everyone grew up loving, but with these 
 extra features such as the new game play modes and multiplayer, it makes what is a classic game 
 even better. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Girman
Rating: 8.7
Date: May 3, 2007 6:25 pm PT
Review:  Remember back in the good old days (although I waznt alive but I know what it was like) , u go 
 down 2 Ur local arcade or grocery store and c a Tetris Machine? Then u check Ur pockets 4 some 
 money and u had some. U put it in the Tetris machine and u were really into it. It killed time, 
 it waz entertaining and it had some great music. Nowa days u can go 2 an arcade and if Ur lucky, 
 ull find a Tetris Machine. U look all over 4 some classic Tetris. Well look no more! Tetris has 
 come 2 the Nintendo DS! Instead of paying a quarter and playing a 5 second game. U can go 2 a 
 game store, pick this game up, and play it 4 hours and hours on in. Yes, its that addicting. The 
 new Tetris has 6 different new games!
  Of coarse Tetris DS has its classic standard mode which is the basic mode that started it all. 
 Once u get through level 20, theres endless mode which is indeed, endless. This mode revolves 
 around Super Mario. Touch Mode which is Tetris but touching the blocks and moving them around until 
 u get this cage 2 open up and explode with balloons. This mode is fun when Ur on the can. Lol. 
 Theres puzzle mode which is set up with 3 different blocks and Ur objective is 2 place the right 
 blocks in the right order. This mode features Mario and Yoshi. Theres Mission mode which is like 
 standard but theres missions 2 it. Like: clear 2 lines at once. Link is featured in this mode. 
 And last theres catch mode. As the blocks fall down, u need 2 catch them with Ur blocks. Samus 
 is feature in this mode.
  Also there is multiplayer in this great game. Its got Wi-Fi, multiplayer, and DS download play. 
 Wi-Fi can hold up 2 10 players on a game and I think its the same 4 multiplayer. And I 4got 2 
 tell u, each game has a song, but remixed. So b careful. Lol
  BOTTOM LINE: Its a great game. Its good 2 feed Ur hunger 4 a puzzle. It passes the time. Buy it 
 if its under $35.00. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: FelisLeo1980
Rating: 8
Date: Apr 25, 2007 6:01 am PT
Review:  Tetris DS is just what is sounds like and at times it feels like it was made for old fans of the 
 franchise, who already played Tetris and NES back in the 80&acute; s.
  
  Graphics are colorful and they lean very heavily on retro feel presenting classical Mario, Zelda, 
 Metroid, Donkey Kong, Yoshi and Balloon Fight. Music is also classical but honestly I would have 
 expected it to be more modern since the game itself is already filled with memories.
  
  Gameplay consists of six different game modes: Mario themed Standard, Donkey Kong themed Push, 
 Balloon Fight themed Touch, Yoshi themed Puzzle, Zelda themed Mission and a Metroid themed Catch. 
 All of them work just fine and are different from one another. My personal favourites are Standard, 
 Touch and Catch.
  
  Wireless multiplayer is possible even if your friend doesnt have his or her own copy of Tetris 
 DS. Game modes are Standard, Mission and Push. Wi-Fi has only Standard or Push, but you don&acute; t 
 necessarily need to know someone&acute; s friend code in order to play online against people all 
 around the world. Multiplayer is a great feature in Tetris DS making it an even better package.
 
  
  Tetris DS is at its best when played in small doses. It will stay in my DS for a very long time 
 and especially when I&acute; m traveling in a bus or a train. It is simply the best and fullest 
 Tetris ever made and it suits perfectly as a hand held game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DrHyde
Rating: 7.5
Date: Apr 24, 2007 7:51 pm PT
Review:  Since the late 80's Tetris has been the game that defined puzzle games for any future puzzle video 
 games. Over the years the series has seen some majro alterations including a brief foray into the 
 3D world. Now, Nintendo brings us the DS version of the game with mixed reactions from myself.
 
  
  Tetris DS comes with a variety of interesting modes to choose from. The most basic is the Standard 
 mode that uses the basic formula of moving the falling pieces in order to create lines. At first 
 you can only go to level 20, but after obtaining that it unlocks Endless mode which is like the 
 good ol' days.
  
  The other modes are pretty interesting including Catch mode where you control a floating 4 x 4 
 square and attempting to grab tetris pieces as they fall creating a square shape that clears eventually. 
 Mission mode is more strategic in setting up a scenario in which you must figure out how to solve 
 the puzzle with the pieces they give you. Push mode pits you against the CPU or a friend in a battle 
 to control both screens. If you push the opponent into the red zone they lose. Puzzle mode is similar 
 to Mission mode but lacks the timer element.
  
  The big problem with the gameplay is the infinite rotation thing that was seen in The Next Tetris. 
 It basically allows to hold a piece indefinitely even after it's touched the other pieces as long 
 as you continue to rotate it. This pretty much neuters the game making it way too easy. When combined 
 with the ability to hold a piece in the upper left hand corner until you need it, the game becomes 
 way too easy. The game also doesn't make good use of the touch screen controls or the dual screen 
 set-up.
  
  The graphics suffer a bit with the retro Nintendo games playing in the top screen. They're more 
 of a distraction than any real addition to the game. The other elements of the graphics aren't 
 anything better than the Game Boy Advance could do, making this release very lackluster. Because 
 of the retro themes, the sound follows along. It is nice to hear old tracks from Super Mario to 
 play with, but some classic Tetris music would have been nice as well. All in all, the sound is 
 merely average.
  
  The value of the game comes directly from the various modes that you can choose to play. If you're 
 bored with traditional Tetris, you can definitely get some enjoyment out of the other modes. If 
 it wasn't for the infinite rotation addition and the holding box, this game could have really been 
 a gem. I would really only recommend this game for someone new to Tetris that needs something easy 
 to build their way up to the classical rendition. In the meantime, save you money till this becomes 
 a $20 title.
  
  The Good: Variety of modes to play when classic Tetris gets boring, extra modes are challenging 
 and thought provoking, retro Nintendo game themes are nice, Tetris is pretty much like you remember 
 it.
  
  The Bad: Infinite rotation and holding box make the game too easy, not enough variety in music 
 or themes, doesn't make good use of the stylus or dual screens. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Tech_Viper
Rating: 8.4
Date: Apr 6, 2007 12:16 am PT
Review:  That said this is the best incarnation of tetris in a while, tetris dx still being better. But 
 what it lacks in the good stuff, it somewhat makes up for it in the other modes, the puzzles were 
 different and interesting, at least until you beat them all. Other than that there are the standard 
 modes, and the two that I find have the most value. Mission mode which presents a new slightly 
 more challenging twist on standard tetris gameplay, forces you to perform certain tetris tasks 
 on command which does make it interesting. And the best new thing is catch mode which takes basic 
 tetris gameplay and gives it a new perspective and makes you want to gather as much as possible. 
 All in all if your not a hardcore fan of tetris this game might not be for you, but if you enjoy 
 tetris and have been missing the endless mode that has been sorely lacking this game at least gives 
 you the option after you beat it that is. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SaxxyGamer18
Rating: 8
Date: Dec 22, 2007 12:53 am PT
Review:  The Good: Tetris is as addictive as ever; six gameplay modes; interesting presentation; online 
 play works well; 10 player single-card play is amazing.
  
  The Bad: You're likely to hate a few of the modes; soundtrack is irritating; doesn't have enough 
 customization options; very, very few unlockables.
  
  Well, Tetris has received a definite revision here with Tetris DS, and it does most of what it 
 sets out to do right. Unfortunately, due to a lack of options and really irritating music, it doesn't 
 quite come off as perfect.
  
  The gameplay here is the highlight - there's no less than six different modes to choose from, and 
 you're bound to love most of them. There's the standard original Tetris action, Touch mode, Puzzle 
 mode, Push mode, Mission mode, and Catch mode. Each has a theme based on an old NES game, and while 
 that's an interesting idea on paper, it makes for some seriously infuriating backround music.
 
  
  There is also online play, though it's limited to two-player or four-player standard mode or two-player 
 Push mode. The single-card download multiplayer is amazing, requiring only one card for up to ten, 
 count 'em, TEN players. This fact alone makes Tetris DS a good buy for those who have a lot of 
 DS owning siblings or friends.
  
  Tetris DS hurts mainly because of its lack of customization and unlockables. Unlockable modes, 
 items, etc. along the lines of Meteos would have been very much appreciated, but they're just not 
 there. It's a bare bones presentation that really hurts the value of the game.
  
  Ultimately, Tetris DS is easiest to recommend if you're already a Tetris fan. If you're not, there's 
 nothing here for you. Meteos is a better bet for just about everyone. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: NBAmaster30
Rating: 9.4
Date: Mar 14, 2007 9:04 am PT
Review:  This game shows us why game boy sold so well. I Tetris. That was one of the few games i got for 
 the Game Boy. This game has simple concept. Make straight lines out of different blocks. The DS 
 version not only give you that but give you some other stuff too! for an example there is a touch 
 mode featuring Balloon Flight. A quest mode with Link, A Yoshi mode. and Finally a metriod mode. 
 all these games have the same concept but with different twist. Some are better then others depending 
 on what you like. I personally found the touch mode to be the best of the new modes but that is 
 just me. This game you can literally play for hours and hours when your bored. For me if I am really 
 bored I'll play this game. Heres the breakdown
  
  Gameplay: This is what makes Tetris fun fun fun!
  Graphics: Average graphics with old bit Mario 
 and Link but thats what they wanted to do. I would have made it better looking
  Sound: A lot of good Nintendo soundtracks are in this game. Value: almost a year later and I still 
 enjoy it
  Overall: I am A tetris fan and have been playing it for a long while now and i am just so glad 
 its on the Ds my favorite system! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bigcalkenobi
Rating: 9.3
Date: Mar 1, 2007 7:08 pm PT
Review:  The latest addition i the Tetris franchise is the best one yet. It has the classic mode, and then 
 has several other modes. It has some of the most addicting gameplay (like all of its predicessors) , 
 but when you get tired of classic you can play the others, one of my favorite being Push, where 
 you play against a comp. or friend and try to push them to the bottom. Then there is also a new 
 Touch mode which is pretty difficult and addicting. There is also a touch puzzle mode which is 
 also very difficult. They also have a missions mode, and a catch mode. Catch is also fun and addicting, 
 but is very difficult. In that game you move a single piece around and try to build a row by catching 
 the pieces as they fall and you move up. Missions is where you complete certain task in a limited 
 amount of time. Another unique part of the game is that the entire game features a Nintendo theme. 
 Everything from Mario to balloon fight. It really adds to the game.
  
  As far as graphics go, you get what you expect. Its Tetris, there really isnt a need to have good 
 graphics, its not made for that. What it is made for is the extremely addicting gameplay. It is 
 so simple, yet so addicting, all the games especially the classic mode. You could spend countless 
 hours playing the game. The sound is filled with the addicting catchy nintendo themes that are 
 fun to listen to and also addicting. It is agreat sound track, although once you get to higher 
 levels there is this really annoying song that spans for around 5 levels.
  
  To add to that there is multiplayer for the first time , single card play that features 3 games. 
 Most people including mysel at first didnt think that Tetris Multiplayer would be good, but it 
 is also like the game in the fact taht it is really addicting. It is fun and you can play up to 
 10 players with a card and up to 4 online.
  
  So if you have a DS and aren't sure what to buy next, then remeber that Tetris DS is extremely 
 addicting and you will get your money's worth out of it within days. You wont be able to put it 
 down. Rember you cant go wrong with Tetris. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mortenjohs
Rating: 9.2
Date: Feb 18, 2007 9:13 am PT
Review:  I remember quite vividly the first time I tried a version of Tetris. It was the excellent Twintris 
 on a friend of mines trusty Amiga 500 in 1990. My friend had played the game for some days and 
 kept beating me in its two-player mode. When he said his secret was to take into account the next 
 piece as well as the one currently in the well I thought that was just too autisticly imposslible 
 to be true. Now; 21 years after Pazhitnov et al invented the game, Nintendo launches a revamped 
 version for their beloved DS simply called Tetris DS. In classic mode here you can see, not just 
 one, but six blocks into the future and you have the possibility to put one block on hold. Nasty.
 
  
  Of course, anyone who has ever played the game (and that should be about everyone, I guess) knows 
 that after some games you do get used to take the next piece into account while playing.
  
  After Twintris I had a break from tetrising untill I found a fine small gadget on a crowded indoor 
 marked in Santiago de Chile (or was it Valparaiso, Erik?) in 1998 that had one sole function: To 
 let you play Tetris. This was a welcome variation to the all too beatifull landscape outside various 
 means of transportation for some time there south. (This machine was later, upon returning to Norway, 
 donated to my dad - to much rejoice.) It had two equally important qualities: One; it was a really 
 great implementation of Tetris. And two; you could turn the sound off.
  
  Not much later, I installed Linux on my computer and a central component of the KDE desktop was 
 Ksirtet. The best tetris version I had ever seen. Untill now.
  
  Somehow the big N has managed to once again create an impressive piece of video game art. The most 
 important reasons for that, I think, is this:
  
  First of all they have crafted an extremely simple to use online part of the game. (One might argue 
 that once online we should have the option to configure the games to ones own liking - not be forced 
 to play one on one (standard or the new pus mode) or 4 player battle, but that would ofcourse add 
 to complexity) You turn on your DS, connect via (almost) any kind of WiFi-network, select mode 
 of play, wait some seconds and voil&aacute;! NWC has found a suting partner for you (by means of 
 a rating system not unlike the one you find in Chess) and you are ready to play. If anyone should 
 be in doubt: Tetris is really a game that is excellent in lenght and intensity for online play.
 
  
  Second of all they have improved the actual gameplay of the classic game by adding the possibility 
 to hold a block and the ability to see six steps ahead. This makes the game way more tactical and 
 it lives thus more up to its name as a puzzler - not a  trainer 
 (It is still that as well - by all means.) Also it makes the game less dependent on sacrificing 
 to Miss Fortuna. (Some purists doesnt seem to agree with me on this one)
  
  As a third reason I would mention the new play modes, but even though they are interesting enough 
 - most of them - they dont really live up to their father (or grandfather?) ; Tetris itself. Still 
 they offer some interesting twists to the block game concept and is well worth lending ones attention 
 to.
  
  Thats all for now, thank you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: liugeaux
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 23, 2007 12:31 am PT
Review:  I don't give perfect 10s to just any game. I have been a tetris loon since the old green screened 
 game boy days. Every itteration of tetris since GB and NES have been the same rehashings of the 
 old game (except tetris 2 and tetrisphere) . Also, every puzzle game ever made has simply strived 
 to outdo the almighty tetris. Well, Tetris DS does everything right. The online play is fast paced 
 and well balanced. The several different modes make every time you pick the game up interesting. 
 Touch and push modes are genius. Infinite spin is in this game and it does make it easier. However 
 it is very nice to be able to play the normal mode for 26 levels before dying rather than just 
 9 and a half. The Nintendo themes seem a bit pointless but alleast it gives the game a colorful 
 pallet of familiar themes to work with. Tetris deserves to side side by side with Brain Age and 
 Big Brain Academy as the only games your mother will play too. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SKOPY291
Rating: 7.3
Date: Jan 15, 2007 7:15 pm PT
Review:  Leave it up to our old friends at Nintendo to redo an even older classic. Shocker I know... but 
 what is really the shock here is that they manage to breath new life into a puzzle game that hasn't 
 really changed in... since it was made. I guess it really isn't so crazy that Nintendo did this 
 so well. The game has been broken up into seperate gameplay modes, most are great some... not so 
 much. Each mode has a distinct Nintendo character attached to it to give it a kind of story mode 
 feel. The original game is still here and kicking with mario and friends at the top screen. A new 
 push game is here with you pushing blocks down onto your opponent. This is very fun. Perhaps one 
 of the truly disappointing parts of the game would have to be the touch screen portions. None of 
 these are really needed in the game, they are just there for the added function of the DS. The 
 graphics are as sharp as a Tetris game could be. The music is... no other word: sweet. The gameplay 
 is solid. If you have a DS this is one all should have. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: guyguyguy1234
Rating: 9.7
Date: Dec 16, 2006 8:34 pm PT
Review:  Stunningly amazing. That is what comes to my mind at Tetris DS is awesome. the graphics are clearer 
 than previous tetris games. This game gives me a good challenge (mostly on Wi-Fi) The sound is 
 sometimes all Bleeps and Bloops but that doesn't affect the other great features. There are 7 fun 
 modes (including Wi-Fi) that you can play for hours. Each mode is based off of a classic nintendo 
 game. Such as Metroid, Mario, Donkey Kong, Zelda etc. The modes are, marathon, mission, puzzle, Wi-Fi, 
 Push, touch, and catch. The one down side is Wi-Fi. It is way too hard! I have never won a match, 
 and I've had the game for months. Overall, I am stunned with this game, BUY IT! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: darkone2u
Rating: 9.2
Date: Nov 29, 2006 12:30 pm PT
Review:  When it comes to the DS's wi-fi capability, Tetris DS push it to the limit. The head 1v1, 4 man 
 FFA, and Push, are all great ways to reinvent the original Tetris to a more fun competitive one. 
 It is also fun to see who you are heading off with. Be it a rank 6000+ or a 5000-, its all fun 
 and games and you you just become better everytime you play. Not only the wi-fi is fun, but also 
 the original Tetris style is still able to play. But it only lacks one thing, and that would be 
 the original Tetris music. But other than that, its just pure addiction from out of the box, and 
 into the DS. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SamuelpukMM
Rating: 9.1
Date: Nov 25, 2006 12:14 pm PT
Review:  This game is more addictive than drugs. its better than hitting someone with a fish. Its more fun 
 than... than... well, lets not go into that. anyway, this has potential to be a classic. half the 
 modes are crap, mind (touch, push. CRAP) and the retro stuff is pointless. sure, its nice but you 
 wont get time to look at it and if you do look you'll see the red of game over. but overall this 
 is a brilliantly fun game, just be careful if you go online. the opposition is tough! Mission mode, 
 though, is my favourite. nuts, challenging and fun. and its LOZ related. perfect! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hianhwee
Rating: 7
Date: Nov 23, 2006 11:37 pm PT
Review:  i am a die hard fan of Tetris DS. if i recall that my 1st game on the handheld was bricks aka Tetris. 
 in the DS platform, it comprises various modes of playing - standard, touch, push and within these 
 modes, it allows you to play as marathron, line, vs CPU and vs Player. quite a few options. for 
 me, i always go for the standard - line or marathron challenge. the ghost block does give new player 
 a feel where the next block of brick going to land/fit. at times, it can be quite misleading especially 
 when playing the push mode. for visual, it is a simple color view and no fanciful stuff on the 
 lower screen. however on the upper screen, it feature mario and friends going from the start point 
 to the end point while playing the line challenge. frankly i find this distracting since i need 
 to focus on the clearing the blocks.
  
  for the puzzle mode, it can be daunting but this makes your brain to think a little. :)
  
  
 like the official review stated, the music featured in this game are mario related. for me, it 
 seemed to be a bit dull since i always play mario series of games and the music doesn't add any 
 excitement to the game. as such, i turned off the volume and put on my iPOD while playing. lumines 
 and lumines 2 did a better job but both games are on PSP. even Every Extra Extend plays a cooler 
 background music. so far, i played about 3 hours. this game, doesn't require more skills but focus 
 and speed form the core skills to handle the game well. if you love classic and lasting game, this 
 can be a good one to kill time while waiting for friends when they are late... :) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: curtizio
Rating: 9.2
Date: Nov 7, 2006 3:29 pm PT
Review:  It's amazing how block stacking can stay fun after all these years.
  
  Some of the new play modes are excellent; great multiplayer
  
  The last time a Tetris game 
 hit a Nintendo handheld was in THQ's Game Boy Advance version of Tetris Worlds, which was a nice 
 job but failed to even reach the original Game Boy and Game Boy Color's level of presentation due 
 to a lack of any sort of statistics save. Everything from cell phones to digital cameras have had 
 versions of Tetris since then, but Tetris DS is a fantastic rendition and retains a ton of the 
 classic charm while offering up some new challenge ideas and kicking ass with some truly amazing 
 multiplayer features that absolutely must be experienced.
  
  You can rediscover the timeless puzzle game Tetris on your Nintendo DS with Tetris DS. Now you 
 can choose from six different game modes, all of which take advantage of the DS's touch screen. 
 Each game mode features a theme from another Nintendo franchise, such as The Legend of Zelda or 
 Metroid. You can challenge up to nine other players using one cartridge for local multiplayer play 
 or three other players around the world with the DS's Wi-Fi connection.
  
  Push Mode is a two-player game played out on an elongated board. Each player drops blocks from 
 one end towards the center. Clearing multiple lines in one drop will push the entire board towards 
 the opposing players side. Some great new strategies emerge once you realize that since youre 
 technically working the same board as your opponent, you can royally screw him by stealing his 
 lines before he has a chance to score. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mkaddict1
Rating: 7
Date: Oct 26, 2006 1:21 pm PT
Review:  I like Tetris. A lot. I mean a lot a lot. But i simply could not bring myself to enjoy all of the 
 other features like I do the original game. That's not to say that the other features aren't fun, 
 but they only held my interest for a few minutes at time. The games that supposed to use the touch 
 screen (all one of them) , is lame and not very tetris-y, and either is the Metroid-themed Catch.
 
  The original game is excellent as always, and great with the classic Nintendo music. The game 
 comes with Wi-Fi, but unless you are a Tetris MASTER, expect to lose, and lose often. Just not 
 very fun, and the items are a useless distraction. Just give me normal Tetris and leave me be. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MegaMAN1121
Rating: 8.2
Date: Oct 25, 2006 3:09 pm PT
Review:  I LOVE THIS GAME. I got it used and I play it once a day. I beat the guy who used to own it score. 
 I suck at Push but that okay. Here it score for all the usalley stuff
  
  Gameplay: Like the guy who did the review 'Dude it Tetris' who dosen't like Tetris gameplay
  
 
  Graphics: It cool it has 8-bits characters. And the top dcreen look amsome too.
  
  Sound: The gameplay music is amsome Including the rushed tetris
  
  Value: I don't know what 
 this mean but it has good of these
  
  WiFi: Wifi is amsome I check it out a day
  
  So what you waithing for go get it now fool
  (Mr. T LOL) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: LedFanatic4
Rating: 8.8
Date: Oct 23, 2006 8:59 pm PT
Review:  Who doesn't love Tetris? Not me that's for sure. I find myself playing countless hours trying to 
 get as man 4-row combos in a row as I can, or even battling people online.
  
  Graphics: 8
  
  Haha, how could you possibly rate graphics in a Tetris game? The colors are 
 nice and bright, and the blocks are... well.... shaped well I suppose. The backgrounds are that of 
 NES games, which is nice for people who are watching you play (and get bored of watching the blocks) 
 but you'll be too busy trying to stack the tetriminos to be able to watch the background. Sound: 
 7
  
  It's typical NES music, if not then it's just the standard Tetris sounds, nothing special, but 
 could get on your nerves if you listen to it with headphones on for a whie (which I hope nobody 
 does) .
  
  Gameplay: 9
  
  The button configurations are perfect, and once you get acclimated to the control scheme, laying 
 stacks will come easily. It may take 5 minutes to get used to the controls, but once that's over 
 they'll stick in your mind. There are many modes from which you can choose varying from standard 
 to push, and you can even verse a computer! Nothing unexpected.
  
  Value: 8
  
  Tetris is fun for a couple of hours to some people, but then gets old quickly for others. For me 
 I have played this game around 30 hours, simply due to the online mode. Battling other people is 
 a lot of fun, and while you may not win every time, you can see some truly amazing players from 
 around the world.
  
  Overall: 8.8
  
  I fine Tetris DS to be one of my best DS purchases. I hope you grow to enjoy this game as much 
 as I have, not only because of the amount of fun it is, but also because it's a classic unlike 
 many mindless shooters out there. Get in touch with your inner old-school tendencies. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: CalesKales
Rating: 6
Date: Oct 20, 2006 11:42 pm PT
Review:  The gameplay is the same as any other Tetris game but this dosent even have a standard mode. There 
 is a mode were you can go to two hundred lines and then you have to stop. The other game modes 
 get very boring.
  
  The graphics are the same crappy 2D graphics as usuall. No improvements there.
  
  The sound 
 is the great normal Tetris music but mixed in with other game music and other game sounds that 
 make the music sound horrible.
  
  The value is really bad. Many different modes but practically no unlockables.
  
  It was easy 
 to play with simple controls as usuall. Basically no improvements and it got very repetitive very 
 fast. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Stez-X
Rating: 9.1
Date: Oct 20, 2006 1:31 pm PT
Review:  First of all, let's make one thing clear. The retro is a waste of time. Sure, it's nice looking, 
 watching a little Mario jumping along hte top of the screen, but I find him very distracting. It'll 
 make you chuckle at first, but it wears off quickly. Saying thta, I'd rather have classic Nintendo 
 than a boring '3D' desert background.
  
  Moving on, Tetris DS is a brilliant, responsive and just pure addictive game to play. All the usual 
 Tetris moves are there (including the infamous infinite spin, a move that if you keep tapping A 
 the block will hover above everything.) The 'Hold' box is a brilliant, useful feature. Tap the 
 R Trigger and you can store a block, and use it again for later use. Not essential, but it can 
 be a real help., and probably save a few butts online.
  
  The music is brilliant, changing every 10 lines you can get, each one a classic Nintendo or tetris 
 theme, including the brilliant Zelda theme. You can even listen to your unlocked music on a little 
 DJ Deck type machine, which is a really cool feature. The variety of modes is extremely good! There's 
 one for everyone, but good old Standard Tetris is the best. After you reach 200 lines, you can 
 unlock Endless mode, which goes on forever and ever. There's also Versus Tetris, which is You Vs. 
 CPU. It's ok, but level 1 is ridiculously easy and level 5 is rediculously difficult. Catch mode 
 is a bit odd. Catch blocks as they fall in a fixed camera and they will detonate as they grow bigger, 
 with a spooky Metroid theme. Puzzle mode is very tricky, with a Yoshi's Cookie theme. Push mode 
 is You Vs. CPU fighting on both screens, the aim to push your opponent off the screen. Overall 
 it's a bit hard. Mission mode is a poor attempt to create challenges, wasting a Zelda theme.
  
  Then there's Touch Mode. You have to love this one, as you use the stylus to slide blocks along, 
 making lines vanish, with your aim to rescue balloons at the top. The Balloon Fighter theme is 
 used with style, and is my favourite mode (excluding Wi-Fi) as it's just so responisve and has 
 that sense of style to it.
  
  Multiplayer is the gem of tetris DS. It just works so well. 10 player versus allows up to 10 (dur) 
 people to play at the same time, using Mario Kart style weapons to slow your opponents down. Then 
 there's Wi-Fi, which is possibly the best feature of the game. Up to 4 people can play, with or 
 without weapons, in standard Tetris. The aim, is to clog your opponents screens up with lines, 
 which you can do by scoring multiple lines at once. Online even has it's own Ranking system, which 
 means you can't afford to lose a match!
  
  Overall, Tetris DS is a strong game, with some excellent twists on classic Tetris. It has an amazing 
 Multiplayer and is Tetris as it always has been. The only downside however, is the infinite spin, 
 which unfortunately is required in a lot of modes, because the speed increases amazingly fast. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Anime-Beast
Rating: 9.8
Date: Sep 25, 2006 5:13 pm PT
Review:  Tetris DS is a portable version of the classic puzzle game. Nintendo has decided to take Tetris 
 DS and pump it full of NES references with games like super Mario, Metroid, The legend of Zelda 
 and many more. The whole NES thing is cool for a bit but will get annoying later on. The game play 
 in Tetris DS has normal Tetris and touch Tetris you have some other signal player modes but you 
 wont play them much. Normal Tetris is straight up Tetris. Touch Tetris gives you laid out Tetris 
 blocks and you move them with the touch screen. The graphics in Tetris DS are pretty good but most 
 of the cool stuff happens when you are not looking. The sound in this game is okay but old Nintendo 
 remixes get old fast, and I mean FAST. A nice perk to Tetris DS is that you can play WI-FI and 
 this mode works perfectly. I have gotten over 40 hours of play with Tetris DS and I dont see any 
 stop soon this is a game that will last you a very long time. In short Tetris DS is a fun puzzle 
 game and has given me some of the most fun I have ever had with my DS and any one with a DS should 
 by Tetris DS. Thank you for reading this review of Tetris DS I hope you found it helpful 
::::::

::::::
UserName: echo_ent
Rating: 8.6
Date: Sep 18, 2006 4:31 pm PT
Review:  First, it was the reinvention of Super Mario Bros. Now, again after a 17-year hiatus, Tetris is 
 back on a handheld system. Like New Super Mario Bros., Tetris DS is a total revamp of the original 
 game.
  
  Tetris DS features all of the gameplay of the original, but with a truck load of extras. Tetris 
 DS has the standard clear line after line after line mode of play, plus five new modes of play.
 
  
  The other modes of play greatly add to the Tetris experience. The modes are as follows:
  
  Touch Mode
  
  A pile of Tetriminos (the seven unique Tetris playing pieces) need to be 
 moved with the DS stylus in order to let a cage full of balloons reach the bottom of the touch 
 screen. Inspired by the NES classic game Balloon Fighter, this mode offers five levels of play 
 and is an entirely new spin on the Tetris idea. This mode of play is only made possible by the 
 control scheme of the DS.
  
  Push Mode
  
  Set to the theme of the original Donkey Kong, push mode is a player vs. computer or player vs. 
 player (via WiFi play) tug-of-war style mode of Tetris in which players must clear lines in an 
 attempt to push the other player to the edge of the screen.
  
  Catch Mode
  
  Inspired by the game Metroid, catch mode is a style of Tetris unlike any other. The goal of catch 
 mode is to create four-by-four set of Tetriminos while controlling a flying core of blocks. Tetriminos 
 created in this way create a bomb effect which clears other Tetriminos and also small metroids.
 
  
  Puzzle Mode
  
  This Yoshi's Castle -themed mode asks players to clear a set number of pre-set Tetriminos by using 
 the least possible number of randomly generated Tetriminos. There is no time limit for this mode, 
 and the only criteria for completion is that each new Tetrimino dropped into place must clear at 
 least one line. There are over 200 levels in puzzle mode.
  
  Mission Mode
  
  Mission mode is set to the theme of The Legend of Zelda. Players are given a set number of hearts 
 (timer) and must complete objectives (clear a line with a certain Tetrimino shape) by the time 
 the hearts reach zero. There are two ways to play mission mode. Players can select between marathon 
 (like classic mode) and time trial modes.
  
  These added modes to Tetris DS allow for an engrossing experience on their own, but Nintendo was 
 not finished with six single-player modes. With Tetris DS, Nintendo now allows for wireless play 
 against up to three other people in any mode of play.
  
  Tetris DS can also be played with up to ten friends at the same time, using only one game cartridge 
 through the DS's game sharing option.
  
  The bottom line is that Nintendo once again proves why they are the leader in handheld gaming. 
 Tetris DS is a faithful version of the original with plenty of spice to enthrall gamers new and 
 old alike.
  
  Another sure-fire hit for Nintendo, Tetris DS is not to be missed. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: everccr
Rating: 9.3
Date: Sep 17, 2006 8:13 pm PT
Review:  Tetris has always remained in my heart as my favorite puzzle game. But sadly tetris worlds wasnt 
 great and my nes is dead so threwas no relief. Thankfully nintendo decide to bring the beloved 
 puzzle game to the ds. tetris ds has six different modes with nintendo themes (i. e metroid, zelda 
 and donkey kong) each of them suprisingly addictive and makes god use of the touch screen. but 
 the marathon mode is the highlight of this game. trying to make it to 200 hundred lines is hard 
 at first but when you get the hang of it, it gets extremely easy. The sound in this game is great, 
 remixes of your favorite nitendo songs can be unloked and played in the options menu. Overall tetris 
 ds is a fun game and a must buy for ds owners. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ninjajuggalo810
Rating: 8.8
Date: Sep 16, 2006 7:40 pm PT
Review:  Best tetris To Date The Online Was Masterfully Done in a way like the xboxes in which you logon 
 on pick a play mode and the game sets you up with a player or players depending on your score which 
 is based on wins and losses you get points for winning and lose points for losing but its not always 
 the same if you play someone with 10 points more than you, you will not get as many points as you 
 would if you play someone with 500 points more than you and on the opposite side you wont lose 
 as many points if you lose to someone with 500 points more than you as would if you lose to someone 
 with about the same score The main game has great music and changes to different nintendo themed 
 music for level to level including mario metroid and donky kong (even Zelda) The rest of the game 
 is pretty much the same as the old tetris's even with the new modes but even if you grew tired 
 of the old tetris's i still recommend picking this title up if only for the online which almost 
 fells like a new game with a familiar fell Total Score: B+ 
::::::

::::::
UserName: elcolto
Rating: 9.1
Date: Sep 13, 2006 10:23 pm PT
Review:  I was cautions but 2 kids said it was good and i played and enjoyed it so much i gots it for me 
 b-day. REplay valu is in the form of awesomness and the sound and musica from old school nintendo 
 games makes it friggen awesome. Grafix: straight 2d goodness. Best TeTris GaMe Ever. awesomeness+cool 
 shapes= tetris. the game of fitting stuff in different places can actully help u in real life when 
 some times you have falling things you have to fit in a place and they are the exact tetris shapes 
 it can help. Buy it or shapes will haunt your dreams! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cokessweet7777
Rating: 9.6
Date: Sep 10, 2006 10:35 am PT
Review:  I got this game a few weeks ago and i'm just gonna say I love it. I love just playing standard 
 mode for hours. And my 45 year old MOM loves it too! This game is great, and the wifi is cool too, 
 although the people on there are PRO. I reccomend this game over meteos (i have both) because meteos 
 is very fast paced, and tetris is more relaxing. And tetris has wifi. I'm about to list my Meteos 
 on ebay, but i won't ever part with this one.
  
  AAA Game!
  
  I LOVE TETRIS DS!!!
  I LOVE TETRIS DS!!!
  I LOVE TETRIS DS!!!
  I LOVE TETRIS DS!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: third_eye_blind
Rating: 9.7
Date: Sep 9, 2006 7:59 pm PT
Review:  Yes this is a Tetris game if you havn't got the clue by the name. I'd have to say its about time 
 a new good tetris game came out. This Tetris game has its classic modes and a couple other modes 
 that can give you more chalenge. But the best feature is it online gaming. Being able to play people 
 in all the modes. This feature made this tetris probibly one of the best. I don't want to give 
 out to much info, like i do for most of my review, because i think you don'y need that much info 
 to influence you. I game is for tetris gamers. So if you r not a tetris fan don't waste your mone 
 y. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ParaFish
Rating: 8
Date: Sep 8, 2006 9:23 am PT
Review:  Tetris DS Review
  
  Same old formula, same old goodness!
  
  Well Ive been having hands on time with Tetris DS for about 2 months now. I believe I have had 
 enough play time to properly review this title. Does it live up the legend of old? Or is this some 
 sort of scheme to milk a franchise? Find out in the review.
  
  Graphics:
  
  It is kind of hard to improve the graphics of the falling blocks in Tetris. There is just very 
 little improvement to be made graphic wise as far as any puzzle game is concerned. However, Nintendo 
 does go the extra mile and add a touch of nostalgia to its Tetris franchise. Each of the 7 modes 
 found in Tetris DS are sprinkled with some old school classic graphics of Nintendos most popular 
 and defining titles on the NES. Everything from Balloon Kid and Metroid to Mario and Zelda can 
 be found throughout the different modes of play. Even though the graphics couldnt have evolved 
 that much from previous Tetris titles, it is nice to know that Nintendo went to extra lengths to 
 give their fans a dose of eye candy.
  
  Gameplay:
  
  Nintendo really stuck to Tetriss traditional roots when they designed the gameplay for Tetris 
 DS. Everything is pretty much standard Tetris. There are no new blocks or catchy gimmicks introduced 
 in this title. However, you do have the added ability to hold a certain block to achieve different 
 strategies. I found this enhancement to give added depth and more strategic gameplay. There are 
 a total of 7 modes to keep your minds boggled and your fingers pumping. The different modes are 
 Standard, Catch, Push, Mission, Puzzle, Touch, and WiFi mode. All the different modes offer a variety 
 of gameplay. The only mode I dont really like that much is Touch mode. It feels very gimmicky 
 and unbalanced to me. Instead of changing up the rock solid Tetris formula, Nintendo just enhanced 
 it. This is the best route I think Nintendo could have taken for a game that will primarily be 
 played via WiFi.
  
  WiFi:
  
  WiFi mode is definitely worth looking into if youre going to pick up this title. For the most 
 part it is pretty basic. You choose from the 3 different game modes: 1 vs. 1 Standard, 1 vs. 1 
 Push, or 4 players versus with items. Personally my favorite is the 1 vs. 1 Standard. I did enjoy 
 the other two online modes, just not as much as the traditional standard mode. 4 players versus 
 with items can get pretty crazy at times and you may feel like you dont have much control over 
 the events that take place from the hoards of items being used. There is a system that keeps track 
 of your wins and you can track how you fair up against the rest of the world on Nintendos WiFi 
 Homepage. The only beef I had about online play was that there was absolutely no means of communication 
 between players. At times it felt like I was just playing a more advanced AI with a screen name. 
 For all I could tell Nintendo could be running bots from their headquarters and we would never 
 know the difference. I havent quite figured out why Nintendo has not allowed any communication 
 between players other than for the protection of younger audiences. The DS with its touch screen 
 and stylus is perfect for writing quick messages to a player. I still dont understand why they 
 havent implemented this feature into a WiFi based game. While I would much rather play in complete 
 silence than hear the obscenities screamed every five seconds on services such as X-box live. I 
 still wish they created some form of communication like Metroid Prime Hunters and the rival system. 
 All in all, WiFi is great and can lead to countless hours of competitive play. It is very easy 
 to get into a game, play, and then leave WiFi if youre on the go.
  
  Sound:
  
  Just as Nintendo has brought back the nostalgic graphics from their signature titles on the NES, 
 they have also added the theme songs of these titles which play in the different modes of choice. 
 The sounds are the bloops and bleeps we all know and love from the NES era. I have to say that 
 the music played during gameplay certainly hits my nostalgic sweet spot. However, my only complaint 
 is that I wish the songs did not repeat themselves as much as they do. When you play WiFi relentlessly, 
 sooner or later you will begin to absolutely detest the Super Mario Bros. Theme song. The old school 
 tunes are great, but being forced to hear the same song looped over and over again can be some 
 what of a nuisance after awhile.
  
  In closing, Tetris DS is a great title to pick up for any puzzle fan. The 7 different modes of 
 play including the limitless WiFi play is a great addition to an already solid game. I highly recommend 
 this game to anyone.
  
  Final Score: 8 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bremsy
Rating: 8.2
Date: Sep 2, 2006 10:42 pm PT
Review:  I think i am being too generous with the ratings. I have always been a fan of Tetris games and 
 still think the New Tetris from the N64 was the best Tetris game ever made. So that may be the 
 reason why Tetris DS got 8.2 from me. Now for the review.
  
  For the DS the graphics are fair and there was nothing to be disappointed with. I wasn't expecting 
 an amazing feat in that department.
  The gameplay was what i expected it to be. Not perfect, but great. It had the old fashioned Tetris 
 with some additional new games. Some of these new games were decent like the Mission, Push and 
 Touch. The Puzzle game was ok, but not as addicting. and the Catch game was just downright annoying.
 
  I have played the game several times on road trips and find it more enjoyable to play than most 
 of the other DS games i have in my collection.
  Anyone want a good Tetris game, than pick this up. But not every fan of Tetris will like the new 
 additions to Tetris DS. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DCFilms
Rating: 8.3
Date: Aug 29, 2006 7:06 pm PT
Review:  While many puzzle games are addicting for the fist few days, then spend the rest of their lifetime 
 gathering dust, Tetris DS manages to keep you engaged with its addicting gameplay. With 6 different 
 modes of play, and in some you can play against a CPU, its easy to get lost in hours of marathon 
 play. While it might just be tetris, it really takes a while to master every game mode, and finish 
 all the puzzles. Both Puzzle and Tower mode, make you think outside the box. Making you learn how 
 to use bocks more stratigically, and helping you become a better player.
  
  The Music and sounds in this game is very nicely put together. Though most puzzle game music becomes 
 annoying after a long time, the classic NES music of Tetris DS is really catchy and tollerable 
 for long periods of time.
  
  I wondered how multiplayer could be done with a puzzle game, but when I tried it out I was blown 
 away by how simple and addicting it was. Finding a game is really quick for the two player games, 
 but takes a little longer to get a whole four player tetris match going. It is relatively lag free, 
 but I would have liked more features and game modes.
  
  Overall, Tetris DS is an amazingly addictive game that lives up to the Tetris name. If you have 
 a DS and like puzzle games, pick up a copy of Tetris (if you already havn't) and start playin! 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: iGroves
Rating: 8.7
Date: Aug 28, 2006 7:19 am PT
Review:  Surely you and me would have thought Tetris was getting a bit old, but no! Tetris is out on DS! 
 And thats not it, its an amazing puzzle game! With all the new features, such as modes, wi-fi and 
 new puzzles.
  
  There is a number of different modes, including your average game, which is still fun if your a 
 bit bored. But you also have 'Touch' where you have to use the touch-screen to move the blocks 
 to try and make lines, and eventually discover the top of the blocks. There is also a mode called 
 'Push', I find this mode extremly hard. Te object of Push is to go up against an opponent, and 
 try to push blocks towards them, such as if you clear 1 line, the blocks on the CPU's screen gets 
 pushed up by 1 line, very confusing.
  
  But not just modes, there is also Puzzles to do, including some sort of Yoshi Cooking. There are 
 200 Puzzles to complete. You are given a number of blocks on the touch screen, and some lines/line 
 of blocks on the Top Screen, your object is to choose a block which would fit, change its order, 
 and try to make it fight into the lines on the top screen, eventually leave the top screen with 
 no blocks, this also gets very confusing, but is very fun.
  
  There is also a mission based mode, where you are given a set amount of time to clear a certain 
 amount of lines, and if you don't do it, you fail. If you do clear the set amount of lines, you 
 have to carry on and complete another task of lines to complete.
  
  There is also once more mode that is to do with Metriod Hunters, you start off wit a 4 by 4 grid, 
 you need to colect the blocks as they are falling down, trying to make the formation its giving 
 you. Also when ou need to, if you press X, it will blow up, but you need to aim for enimy. I'm 
 not sure if I have this one correct as I've never really understood this.
  
  So overall, there is SO much to do in Tetris, and its definatly a game worth having, and the best 
 puzzle game you can own. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: FallAroundBoy
Rating: 8.1
Date: Aug 15, 2006 5:47 pm PT
Review:  The Prince of Puzzles is back! The sheer reverence with Nintendo has treated perhaps the most iconic 
 video game of our time is apparent right from the outset. Showered with 8-bit beauty, the whole 
 shebang has been transformed into some massive NES homage. Adorable? Yes. OTT and more than a little 
 distracting? Definitely.
  As well as vanilla Tetris, you also get some stellar new riffs on Alexei Pajitnov's genius concept 
 --five, to be precise. Of these ony Push and Touch (the only stylus-specific mode) really hit the 
 target, but at least Nintendo has tried to mix things up a bit.
  There is something that niggles at the back of our mind, though: are Tetris included- really superior 
 to more recent DS genre classics like Polarium and Meteos? If we chuck our rosy-tinted specs in 
 the trash, the answer is probably no. Stylus use is limited, and mechanically it just feels a million 
 miles behind other DS puzzlers. Luckily though, the old dog has one last trick up its sleeve, in 
 the form of local WiFi multiplayer.
  Get this: one cart, just one cart, will allow up to 10 DS owners to compete in the biggest Battle 
 Royale since Wrestlemania 2000. There's even a limited online component, so you can find out just 
 how hard to suck against rival Tetrimino twiddlers from across the globe.
  Tetris DS is great, then, of that there is no doubt. Still, it just may be nostalgia, but we can't 
 help but feel the freshness of the original GB version in 1989.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Ultimate__Gamer
Rating: 10
Date: Aug 13, 2006 3:48 pm PT
Review:  Tetris DS is so underrated, it's the perfect portable game. I thought Tetris was terrible until 
 I bought this game! Even if you're not a fan of Tetris you'll like it! It has 6 modes all based 
 off certain games, and all the games are 8-bit themed. 
  
  Mode 1: Standard, Super Mario Bros. and Super Mario Bros. 3 based. Things inside mode: Marathon-The 
 main thing, you do normal Tetris and can pick the level (speed) to start at (My favorite mode) . 
 VS. CPU-do Tetris against the computer. Line clear-pick the level (speed) and how many incomplete 
 layers of blocks to start out with (0 is an option) . How to play- learn how to play standard.
 
  
  Mode 2: Push, Donkey Kong (arcade) based. Things inside mode: VS. CPU-You build on what the CPU 
 does and it builds on you. If the CPU clears more than 1 line at a time it pushes the group of 
 blocks up a little to you, the same thing happens if you do it except it goes down a little to 
 the CPU. There is a dotted line on the bottom and the top and if 1 or more blocks of yours or the 
 CPU's crosses that person loses and the other wins. How to play-Learn how to play Push mode.
  
  Mode 3: Touch, Balloon Fight based. Things inside mode: Tower-Blocks are stacked to the sky, 
 and a cage full of balloons are on top. You have to use the stylus to move the blocks and flip 
 them, to clear lines and get the cage of balloons down. You do not have to clear all the blocks, 
 you just have to get the cage to touch the ground. Their is no time limit or game over but you 
 can get stuck with no possible moves left and can start over by pressing B or tapping a symbol 
 in the bottom right of the screen. There are 5 levels and in levels 4, and 5 you cannot flip the 
 blocks. Touch puzzle-There are 50 puzzles in which on the top screen it will say clear all blocks, 
 clear three blocks at one time, clear all but __, etc. and if you mess up you can press B/tap symbol 
 to restart. How to play-Learn how to play touch.
  
  Mode 4: Puzzle, Yoshi's Cookie based. Things inside mode: Puzzle-200 different puzzles in which 
 you are given a formation of blocks, and and a choice of certain shapes of blocks, you must pick 
 a shape of block and the direction it faces. The one you pick must clear at least 1 line of blocks 
 then the block you picked will automatically fall into a space, then it will clear a line. You 
 will repeat this proses with different/same blocks until all the blocks are gone. There is no time 
 limit, and I you get stuck you can press B/touch symbol to restart. How to play-Learn how to play 
 Puzzle.
  
  Mode 5: Mission, The Legend of Zelda based. Things inside mode: Marathon- Normal Tetris, you are 
 given a mission such as clear 2 lines with __, and must complete it within the time limit. If you 
 don't do it fast enough than five lines of grey unclearable blocks come out of the ground and you 
 are given a new mission (probably hardest part in the game) . Time Attack-Same as above except there 
 no lines of grey blocks, no time limit, and every mission you clear if there are any blocks left 
 3 or 4 will disappear. The object is to clear 10 missions as fast as you can. How to play-Learn 
 how to play Mission.
  
  Mode 6: Catch, Metroid based. Things inside mode: Catch-You are some blocks floating through the 
 air, there are other blocks floating past you. You have to run into the blocks to make them become 
 part of you. you have to make a 4 by 4 block with no holes in it. When you do that the block will 
 turn silver and will detonate in 10 seconds unless yuo want to detonate it quicker by pressing 
 X. If you become so large that it goes off the screen you lose. You can turn the block that you 
 are by pressing A or B, but if while it's turning it hits a block flying through the air you take 
 damage. And if you miss a block and it flies off the screen then you take damage, and if you run 
 into an enemy some blocks get destroyed and you take a lot of damage. If you run out of health 
 you lose. If you hold L or R the blocks will speed up. How to play- Learn how to play Catch.
  
  If this doesn't sound good enough it also has Wi-Fi. And if it still doesn't sound good enough, 
 it's a lot better than you think. So I definitely recommend it to anyone. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tuffj68
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 21, 2008 9:01 am PT
Review:  There is a great puzzle game, and it is called Tetris. This DS version loads some Nintendo franchises 
 and puts it in the game in different modes. They are:
  
  Standard Marathon: Clear 200 lines while getting a high score.
  
  Standard Line Clear: Clear 
 25 lines on any choosable difficulty.
  
  Standard VS CPU: Go against the computer!
  
  Mission Marathon: Clear as many missions as you can!
  
  Mission Time Trial: Clear 10 missions 
 as fast as you can!
  
  Catch: Catch Tetriminos and detonate to get a higher score!
  
  Push: Push the CPU down by clearing 2 or more lines at once!
  
  Puzzle: Solve these wacky puzzles!
 
  
  Touch Tower: Free the balloons by using the stylus to clear lines!
  
  Touch Puzzle: Kind of like mission mode plus stylus...
  
  It truly is a nice game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Tom_Hanks79
Rating: 8.8
Date: Aug 10, 2006 12:38 pm PT
Review:  I personally am a big fan of Tetris and a big fan of Nintendo. A game so simple but so fun and 
 addictive its crazy and I mean crazy as in Krazy Kool. Some people think the music is annoying 
 well I have two things to say about that 1) there's a crazy switch located at the bottom left hand 
 corner of the DS called the volume switch *crowd gasps* 2) I dont find the music annoying its 
 basically a more jazzy versions of the original NES versions of the games music. There are also 
 many different versions of the original Tetris. Normal-self explanatory, mission- tells you what 
 you need to do (i. g. clear 3 lines at once) , Push mode- 2 sided where the bottom of your stack 
 is the bottom of your opponents com or human, Puzzle mode-drop the pieces were they need to go 
 in other words you dont have to be so quickly on your feet or in this case your thumbs *crowd 
 laughs* catch mode- instead of you controlling the pecies you control the base, and touch mode- 
 use the stylis (or in my case a Q-tip with the cotton ripped of) and navigate and move the pecies. 
 Any way that about sums it up so enjoy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: VincentVendetta
Rating: 8.1
Date: Aug 5, 2006 6:01 pm PT
Review:  Classics game can be update. After New Super Mario Bros., it's turn to Tetris to have a new version. 
 Incredibly, Tetris DS don't just re-look this game; he also offers new game modes to this game. 
 What did we can have more?
  
  Tetris DS have a lot of game modes. There's Standard mode, who's the Tetris that everybody knows. 
 But there are also 5 others game modes who are fun. To start, there's the Push mode. It's a two 
 players mode where a big bloc made of Tetriminos have to be push on the territory of your opponent. 
 It's a good idea but it's not the greatest mode in Tetris DS. The greatest of all is certainly 
 the Touch mode. To play this one, it's only with the touch screen. You have to move and rotate 
 (or not) Tetriminos to complete objective. Well, for me, I love this mode. It's just amazing. The 
 Puzzle mode is simple. There's Tetriminos on the touch screen and you just have to erase all the 
 Tetriminos who are in the top screen. Good but not so fun. Mission mode is like the Standard mode, 
 but it's different because you have to complete objectives like clear 3 lines at once and use 
 a Tetriminos of 2x2 to clear a line. It's good. You can have a lot of fun in this game mode but 
 for me, no. The last one is Catch mode. Well it's not Tetris. It's just you have to connect Tetriminos 
 to kill metroids. But this game mode is the worst of all. It's long and not entertaining at all.
 
  
  Nintendo have a good idea: the backgrounds are based on NES games like The Legend of Zelda, Donkey 
 Kong, Metroid and Super Mario Bros.. It's a good idea... but it doesn't offers great graphics. 
 The game is not done for 3D graphics. But it's still fun and we don't care about it.
  
  The game is also ordinary on the sound. The remixes of NES games musics are good because it doesn't 
 destroy the songs but at somewhere, it's not so good for the quality of the sound, in the soundtrack 
 and in the sound effects. It's pretty sad but it's the life.
  
  The value of Tetris DS is not on the puzzles (Puzzle and Touch modes) . If the Puzzle mode has 200 
 puzzles, they can be finished in 30 second... only if you know what to do. Because you can pass 
 a lot of time to think to what you have to put. The puzzles of the Touch mode are also not so great. 
 There are only 50 puzzles and some are placed at the wrong place. But what put the value of Tetris 
 DS so much great? It's so fun that you can replay some game modes. It's just very addictive.
  
  Frustrations can happen in this game. And there are all caused by... the player. Let's just 
 explain.
  -If you don't see the thing in all the game modes named How Play, you can find the game mode 
 hard.
  -If you press the up button too long, you can put some Tetriminos in bad positions.
  -You can also don't understand why some puzzles can't be complete when you have the Tetriminos 
 to complete them. But I can't say why...
  But all the game is good and fun.
  
  At the end, we have a Tetris who's revolutionary for a Tetris. The game has new things on the gameplay, 
 and it makes Tetris younger that he looks. So, if you're just looking for fun, Tetris DS is a good 
 choice for you.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Machine_Shop
Rating: 8.9
Date: Aug 5, 2006 5:43 pm PT
Review:  Tetris is a puzzle franchise that has been on many consoles over the past few years, but none of 
 them have been that great until Tetris DS. The action is mostly on the bottom screen and the top 
 screen provides so nostalgia to Nintendo fans. The first thing you will notice about Tetris DS 
 is the presentation. It's Tetris alright, but with all these old-school Nintendo games in the background 
 and top screen such as Super Mario Bros., Zelda, Metroid, Balloon Fight, Donkey Kong, Excitebike, 
 the original Tetris and much more. This brings back lots of good memories of the SNES and NES games, 
 but these and Tetris peices are the only things to see in the game so it dosn't score so well in 
 graphics. The music in the game shares the same story as the graphics. It's old Nintendo music, 
 but now, it's not that great. The gameplay in Tetris is great. There are 6 very unique styles to 
 play, all rooting from the standard Tetris game. Once you have mastered all these different modes, 
 you probably think your done with the game; you're wrong. Tetris DS is WiFi complatible so you 
 can play people online. This adds hours and hours of play time. Overall, Tetris DS is a great game 
 especially because previous Tetris games were disappointing. This is an excellent choice for gaming 
 in short periods of long marathons and no DS owner should miss this one. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Cpt_Apollo
Rating: 8.2
Date: Aug 4, 2006 11:14 am PT
Review:  I think a better name for this game would be Tetris NES because that is what it truly is, a Tetris 
 game with all the flair from NES games. It is a great game that captures that era of gaming and 
 brings it alive today's medium. The graphics are well done as the game features back drops from 
 countless Tetris games that you have played in the past.
  
  The sound is my favorite part of this game as it features remixed versions of classic games like 
 Super Mario 3, Zelda, Metroid ect. (Just wait till you get to the last level)
  
  This time around Tetris has many new modes including the classic marathon, a touch screen mode, 
 a catch mode and more.
  
  The multiplayer game is fun with up to 10 players local one card. The game is also available on 
 the Nintendo Wi-Fi connection and is fun, even though you can only choose from 3 game modes with 
 up to four players. It wasn't too bad finding games, (around two min. max) but I like the single 
 player modes better.
  
  I recommend this game to anyone who as ever play a NES because of the nostalgia factor or to a 
 fan of the classic series. However it is the same Tetris and if you didn't like it before, you 
 probably won't like it now. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jakemanp
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 3, 2006 9:02 pm PT
Review:  I love Tetris. I think it's the best puzzle game ever created, and it's just plain fun! And now, 
 ever since it came to the DS, I play it all the time. It's incredibly addicting. Any Tetris fan 
 will love this game, and anyone that is a fan of puzzle and logic games will also love this. What 
 I love about this version is that they have numerous types of game modes. There's standard, puzzle, 
 touch, and much more. There's even wi-fi multiplayer. In the puzzle mode, There are 200 different 
 puzzles in which you must fit in each piece to deplete all the blocks. Touch mode, unfortunately, 
 isn't that great. It can get very frustrating at sometimes. Standard mode, however, is regular 
 old Tetris, but as you deplete more lines, Mario advances in one of the levels from Super Mario. 
 It adds a nice little twist. So to rap it all up, this game is a must have for any Tetris fan and 
 would be a good game for any puzzle fan to check out. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: betitothegame
Rating: 8.9
Date: Aug 2, 2006 11:43 am PT
Review:  Tetris has been played for a very long time.. being able to play with it while on a bus or on the 
 go just makes this game even more precious... Tired of rpgs?? mmo's?? fps?? well if u are and own 
 a ds... what are u waiting for??? this game is suprisingly addictive.... especially when playing 
 online via wi-fi.. its really fun to play against others.... (although can be frustrating if not 
 so good at it) .. the graphics are ok (what can u expect... its TETRIS!!!) but the sound, atleast 
 to me is awsome.. when u get a line the sound "trling!" is to me, very rewarding...
  
  So if u want ot be amazed once again and fall under tetrise's curse.. go out and get this game.. u 
 wont be dissapointed 0-o 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Red-Neck
Rating: 10
Date: Jul 31, 2006 12:30 am PT
Review:  After my last review here at gamespot, I didnt really think I would write any others, but, when 
 I got my hands on Tetris, I couldnt leave it alone, i had to do something. I would just like to 
 say, I have this game for a week, and since I am in holidays, I have been spending most of my time 
 playing Tetris. Either on Hot Spots, to play against friends, or Japs I dont even know, or in my 
 house, trying to get to the 200 lines clearing, marathon challenge. This game is so brilliant, 
 I take my DS to the bathroom, with Tetris on it, so I can play more. The most amazing thing is 
 the more I play, the more I want. 
  
  Tetris came back from Nintendo`s jewlery box with various other game modes. Marathon, Puzzle, Touch, Catch 
 and some more marvellous modes.
  
  Besides, the background music, Mario, Zelda and DK themes, addictivly cathy, make me want to sing 
 along with it. 
  
  Some people say there is no true love at first site, but Tetris DS, proves thoose people wrong, 
 again. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: eee_master
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jul 26, 2006 3:38 pm PT
Review:  I remember the first time I played Tetris back in 1989 before speaking English. It was on display 
 with the gameboy for a free try out and I Can look back today and honestly say while holding Tetris 
 DS in my hands; the gameplay has not changed one bit. 
  
  The game is just as intense, difficult and at times frustrating just like it was backing 1989. 
 17 years later this game makes me think what a great job Nintendo did with this rendition for the 
 game as the THQ version for the GBA WAS TERRIBLE!!!!!! But I am very happy to say that Nintendo 
 made it all up with this game and made the game right.
  
  The part I enjoy the most is that the upper screen makes good use of playing classic Mario and 
 remixed classic Mario tracks + game play. This definitely adds to the fun and nostalgia. I am very 
 much addicted to this game now trying to break my 108 line record (breaking my previous 102 line 
 record) .
  
  I only have one problem with the game and that is the fact that where are the classic tunes? The 
 three classic versions of the songs from the original should have been included in this game for 
 me to make it a perfect 10. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: vide0freak13
Rating: 8.9
Date: Jul 22, 2006 7:24 am PT
Review:  There have been many Tetris knock-offs over the years, some of them good, but Nintendo decided 
 to remake the game for the DS. By combining its memorable characters with the classic Tetris gameplay, 
 Nintendo creates an addicting game that can be played for a long time or played for about 10 or 
 15 minutes at a time. As you advance in the game, different characters are represented, such as 
 Mario, Link, Samus, etc, with the game getting more frantic at the same time. The Standard mode 
 is the most fun, but the other modes are still fun, including the Wi-Fi multi-player! My next personal 
 favorite game mode is the Puzzle mode, where you must clear the board using a certain number and 
 type of blocks. In short, any fan of Nintendo (which you must be if you own a DS) and Tetris should 
 own this game for fun and addicting gameplay, even if played for minutes at a time. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: elite11
Rating: 7.9
Date: Jul 19, 2006 5:56 pm PT
Review:  Tetris has been known for simple and fun gameplay , in fact tetris is probably the game that started 
 it all. What nintendo has done is truly amazing. Tetris + multiple fun modes = at least worth a 
 look.
  
  Tetris ds is fun , as soon as you play it , it will first suck you in like a black hole for a couple 
 of hours, then your mind will put the foot on the break and it will not suck you in as much.
  
  Tetris ds has a bunch of modes push , puzzle, touch ,catch, standard and mission. push will 
 pit you againt dk and you will have to make drop more tetriminos on his side. puzzle will give 
 you a bunch of tetriminos and using them you have to take out the tetriminos on the screen. touch 
 is using the stylist to play fun and interesting modes. Catchwill give you a plus shaped tetrimino 
 and the blocks will slowly fal and you will have to make 4 times 4 squers or biger. standard is 
 just old school tetris you can enjoy. mission is similar to standard but you will get objectives 
 and you will have to complete them within time limits.
  
  There are also multiplayer against your friend. But the bigest interesting thing is wi-fi. If you 
 are not good just stick to your friends and single player, because they will dliteraly dominate 
 you, but you might find a noob and smoke him (unless your a bigger noob) . After all that i said 
 you might think that its perfect but, unfortunatly not . It gets boring in a week.
  
  In the end I think you will enjoy the game if you take it slow.
  
  Enjoy!!
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: SpecialED1020
Rating: 9
Date: Jul 18, 2006 6:25 am PT
Review:  Tetris DS is by far my favorite DS game. Which is funny because it's such a simple game... stacking 
 blocks. But you can either find youself playing for hours due to its addictiveness, or for 5 mins 
 due to its "good on the go" type gamestyle. The game modes are highly orignal and all fun with 
 the excepttion of a few. But I find myself playing this game over and over trying to best my previous 
 score. There is only one unlockable, but that really doesnt bother me because there is so much 
 in the game right out of the package. The online is the best feature. It's competitive and fun. 
 Although it takes a while to get a game for 4-player mode. Two-player is a snap. If you don't have 
 wifi, don't get the game though, although the modes are fun, without the online it could get repetitive. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Gamer_152
Rating: 7
Date: Jul 16, 2006 5:39 am PT
Review:  If you like Nintendo and if you like Tetris then you'll definately like Tetris DS.
  
  The graphics are quite good although a lot borrowed from original Nintendo games to give it a sort 
 of nostalgic feeling there are a range of colourful Tetriminos (blocks) to brighten up the game.
 
  
  Gameplay is quite fun with all the original Tetris style play along with new Push, Puzzle, Catch, 
 Mission and Touch modes to choose from. Trying to take on your DS in high speed Tetris action is 
 fun, so is classic Tetris and testing your wits in the any of the 200 puzzles. However after a 
 while you may start to find the Puzzles frustrating and I also found that catch mode became very 
 slow and overly easy. Still these new modes mean your buying a Tetris game but your buying something 
 new, also the better you do throughout the game the more Tetris points you get and of course you 
 can play this game online via Wi-Fi.
  
  The sound effects aren't bad and the music is almost all cool remixes of music from original Nintendo 
 games, The Legend of Zelda theme for the mission mode is definitely very catchy.
  
  Of course being a puzzle game there isn't actually any plot here but this is made up for by the 
 strong re-playability factor. This brings my review of Tetris DS to a close, I hope you enjoyed 
 reading.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: hogthershod
Rating: 7.7
Date: Jun 30, 2006 6:38 am PT
Review:  Tetris has been undoubtedly the most famous puzzle around. That means that a simple solution to 
 avoid buying this game is to Google for Tetris. But then again, it's probably not going to be very 
 portable and the production values aren't going to be as good. Tetris DS is still Tetris, but at 
 least the effort put into the game is warrent of the price, almost.
  
  The basis for the game's theme is old Nintendo characters and music thrown together to give a very 
 nostalgic feel. It works, because most people DO have nostalgic feelings with Tetris, since it 
 was made a household name after the NES and Gameboy gave it popularity. 
  
  It's safe to say that the game has been preserved rather well, but the inclusion of the arbitrary 
 "infinate spin" neuters the game somewhat of it's difficulty, providing that if you can break the 
 game of Tetris, the high scores can become astronomical. There is no feature to turn it off in 
 single player games, unfortunately, but largest problems will undoubtedly be encountered by those 
 who play the game competatively.
  
  The Standard Endless mode provides a great deal of fun, providing you already like Tetris. If not, 
 it's still Tetris, and moving L and T shaped blocks to clear lines just as before is not going 
 to persuade anyone otherwise.
  
  However, the game includes a multitude of other game modes all based around Tetris, which is where 
 the game makes up in the value department for still being the same Tetris decades later. Theres 
 a Tower mode, where you can arrange Tetris pieces with the Stylus, a catch mode where you catch 
 pieces on a larger Tetris peice to clear lines, Mission mode, which gives you specific accomplisments 
 during a round, and a push mode, where you play Tetris on opposite sides of the screen and try 
 to push your opponent to the top.
  
  The Push modes and all VS. modes offer great replay value, since the A. I. becomes a pretty difficult 
 foe around level 5, and they are also extremely fun multiplayer modes, the game's strength. An 
 added bonus is that up to 8 players can join in an enourmous game of Tetris, a huge feat unaccomplishable 
 with any other version of Tetris, truly setting it apart and making the game worth the price for 
 those who play the game competatively.
  
  While the game is simple to get, beating all levels of VS modes and mission modes are great accomplishments. 
 Adding to Tetris Points is a nice way to feel an overall reward for playing all of Tetris' game 
 modes, since it will take a great deal of time to get the fabled 10,000. Free Tetris games usually 
 don't have this kind of cohesive feel to it.
  
  The best touch of Tetris comes in its form of remixed music. They are all old NES themes, of course, 
 but the inclusion of rather well done Super Mario remixes really helps ease the repetative style 
 of playing Tetris. They never branch away from the original songs, unfortunately, and they are 
 also rather short.
  
  Having said good and bad, it's all about Tetris. It's a great game, but having it wrapped up in 
 a package of great production values can really seperate it from being a game that you can easily 
 Google for free. It's made more portable and enjoyable, but it's also pretty expensive for the 
 flashy features. This is a great portable experience, and really makes well with the DS as much 
 as it possibly can, but unfortunately, it's still just Tetris, something that probably no Tetris 
 game will ever be able to get around. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: CyberAlyMan
Rating: 4.2
Date: Jun 29, 2006 12:48 pm PT
Review:  Basically I think some of the new features are brilliant, it's got some great new modes, i'm addicted 
 to puzzle and touch puzzle, the metroid one sucks though. Nintendo wi-fi, as always, I found absolutely 
 crap. You wait 5 mins for a four player game, people join, and guess what, some impatient jerk 
 quits, so I have to wait again, and again, and again, so wi-fi play has my thumbs way down, and 
 without that working properly I can see a lot of these on the second hand shelf. Tetris is almost 
 dead, i'd much rather get out my old game boy. So there, if they'd charged me less for it less 
 i'd be much happier, but they didn't so i'm not. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: benbonney
Rating: 7
Date: Jun 27, 2006 9:02 am PT
Review:  Ok what more can we get out of tetris really, we have have tetrisphere, wetrix, tetris attack, 
 and multiplayer tetris. Truthfully i think i only bought this game for the wi fi.
  Anyway it is mainly the same its just had a bit of spice to it such as the new themes are very 
 nice but its not largely noticeable when you get into the game. As for multi player its nearly 
 same as the original but with more players and no wires. Theres not much more to say about this 
 game except that it is tetris and thats all it will ever be, its not the best puzzler on the ds 
 but it is the only online puzzle game on ds. If your looking for online play get this otherwise 
 go for meteos. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Dannyboi68
Rating: 7.7
Date: Jun 25, 2006 7:28 pm PT
Review:  If anyone out there can't conjure off the top of they're head the six different shapes formed by 
 four blocks that you fit together into lines that disappear, I want to meet you. 
  
  The DS version of the classic Tetris packs all gameplay into six different modes. They range from 
 the old favorite: standard, to new and rather unnesessary mode: push. 
  
  Tetris DS changes itself from the original even more by layering classic nintendo themes over each 
 of the modes. 
  
  If it wasnt for the local multiplayer, there would be almost no point for the new repackaging. 
 But getting 10 people together in one game and using the mario-kart style items on your opponents 
 is truly fun. Such a shame that the online part only supports four players. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rileyhaj21
Rating: 8.8
Date: Jun 25, 2006 11:36 am PT
Review:  If you are a fan of any of the previous Tetris games then I really don't know why you are still 
 wondering if this one should be in your collection. Ever since the original gameboy came out this 
 game has been a staple of handheld gaming. The past couple of tetris games have tried to do all 
 kinds of funny this to the great gameplay to make it a little freasher and I think Nintendo got 
 it all right in this package. I like all the modes but the one I like the best is touch mode. This 
 is addictive and carves away the hours in no time. I also love the wi fi multiplayer. There is 
 just something fun about playing tetris against someone in Japan. This is a great DS game but probably 
 the best Tetris game since the original, so if you want some great pussler action the go pick this 
 up! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: konel01
Rating: 9
Date: Jun 25, 2006 6:48 am PT
Review:  what can i say about tetris that hasn't already been said? it's a game we all know and we have 
 already played to death. sure one could argue that tetris ds is the best looking version yet. we 
 could even point out the 6 different game modes add to the fun, but none, not even the touch mode 
 can compare to the original standard marathon. 
  
  so if isn't so special, why do i love tetris ds, becuz of the multiplayer aspect. now sure you 
 can play with up to 10 people with a single cartridge, but how often are you going to do that? 
 this game is all about the wifi baby. i actually think this is the best ds wifi game out to date. 
 . . . 
  
  nintendo actually did the online for this game right. sure metriod has a ranking system, but tetris 
 does it one better. like most games, tetris will show the amount of wins you have, but it will 
 also give your current online score. this 4 digit score starts off at 5000 and goes up and down 
 depending if you win or lose your matches. this adds an addicting urge to play and play to get 
 that score as high up as possible. unlike mario kart or metroid, opponents don't drop much during 
 the middle of a game. in fact while you're waiting for an opponent your given a warning that if 
 you drop during play it will "COUNT AS A LOSS!!". no one wants to drop, they can't let their score 
 drop. you will get alot of hit and run games and if you beat a person really bad, chances are they'll 
 drop to avoid another lose. then you will find those that will play non-stop with you. i actually 
 average 10+ games with those i challenge online. i have a hard time getting to 4th race in mario 
 kart with more than one opponent. 
  
  my girlfriend can't stop playing this game. i actually came home and found her in my apartment 
 playing this game over my wireless network. keep in mind she has a key to my place and doesn't 
 have high speed internet at hers. she doesn't even want me to play it online, becuz i might drop 
 "her" online-score. she wants me to buy my own copy to play online.... this is my copy!!! the ds 
 she's playing with is the hand me down i gave in april when i imported my navy blue ds lite. she 
 never even played a video game before we started dating. I've created a monster.... but a cute 
 monster. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: wal0026
Rating: 8.6
Date: Jun 24, 2006 10:12 pm PT
Review:  I remember back in about 1999 sitting around the NES with my family having a tourny for tetris, 
 and as soon as i picked up Tetris DS in 2006, it feels like i've gone back in time.
  
  Not only does it come with the standard tetris, it also come with some other modes of play, some 
 of which include touch screen use. For instance there is thisone game called tower where u have 
 to move these tetris pieces in the hope of making a line and then clearing.
  
  Other new game modes include catch, where u basically start off with this one tetris block, tetris 
 piece then start falling from the top of the screen, you then catch the pieces on the one tetris 
 piece in the hope of making a block which is then cleared.
  
  The main reason why I loved tetris DS is the sheer run of it, it amazes me that after many long 
 years tetris can still be fun. It's also very good in the fact that you can play it in quick bursts, 
 it's a really good game for filling in time.
  
  The only main flaw i found with Tetris DS was the music, i did find the music enjoyable, although 
 it would've been better if they put in some classic nintendo music rather than their own mix of 
 classical nintendo music.
  
  But overall Tetris DS is a great puzzle game i would reccomend it to anyone who loves puzzle games, 
 and to anyone who remembers loving the old tetris in 1999. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: JJCNUT
Rating: 8.9
Date: Jun 14, 2006 12:41 am PT
Review:  It has taken some time but Tetris is back and ready for some awesomeness. This is one of the best 
 game for the DS not just cause it canget you hooked, but also cause it has wifi multiplayer. The 
 six single player modes are pretty fun and can get you addicted pretty quick. I dont know what 
 it is about watching and controlling little blocks, but it sure does create fun. The online play 
 is where the fun really is. You either go strong with the blocks or dont go at all believe me I 
 should know. This is another game that any DS owner shoul buy 
::::::

::::::
UserName: slayerver1
Rating: 8
Date: Jun 12, 2006 7:30 pm PT
Review:  Tetris DS is basically Nintendo's reunion with the game that has sold NESs and original Game Boys. 
 Anything Tetris is addictive playing it classic style or its other modes with Nintendo character 
 themes. Mario is the theme for classic Tetris, Zelda for its mission mode (doing certain objectives 
 at a time) , Metroid for Catch mode, Donkey Kong for Push, Balloon Fight for Touch (using the stylus 
 to move pieces making lines) , and Yoshi's Cookie for Puzzle (the longest mode in the game) . All 
 modes have their twists of Tetris and it is solid consistently. The Nintendo themes might be overboard 
 for some people, but fanboys will enjoy this iteration. Wi-Fi is also in offering its modes for 
 mutliplayer. In the end, fans of Tetris and Nintendo will have fun with this version of the classic 
 franchise that pretty much made the puzzle genre cool. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: linkluigi5
Rating: 8.3
Date: Nov 25, 2006 10:14 pm PT
Review:  Tetris was a great game back when it first came out. Then, there were spin-offs and spoofs and 
 other recreations of it, which weremostly horrible. But Nintendo brings Tetris back from the grave 
 with this puzzle game for the Nintendo DS. It bringsback the classic Tetris and morphs in old-school 
 Nintendo characters and games, such as Mario, Metroid, Zelda, and so on.
  The graphics in this game aregreat for 2-d, so 8/10. The gameplay is awesome, best puzzle game 
 for the ds. I give it a 8/10. The sound could of been better, but not by much. I give that an 7/10. 
 The value is great. you'll be playin this forever, thanks to wi=fi.19/10. Tilt=9/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Deetah
Rating: 7.8
Date: Jun 10, 2006 7:53 am PT
Review:  Really good version of old classic Tetris with 6 styles and themes.
  
  Info:
  
  Classic mode: Normal type tetris where Mario runs the stages when you get lines. The more lines 
 you get, the faster he will run the stages. Also you can play this against CPU or line deleter 
 where you delete 25 lines. You can change in line deleter mode Stage and height where you start (Multi-player 
 option) .
  
  Push Mode: You battle against CPU (multi-player option) from top to bottom at the same time. You 
 have to make 2 or more lines to push the tetris-blocks agains your opponent.
  
  Catch Mode: Catch blocks that are falling from the top screen to make 2 x 2 block that detonates 
 in 10 seconds and destroy all blocks in Horizontal and vertical areas in lower screen. (The bigger 
 the area, the bigger area is covered)
  
  Touch Mode: Move and rotate blocks with Stylus to make lines. It is harder than it sounds. Also 
 there is puzzle style in here, where you can't rotate pieces. There is 50 puzzles in this mode. (You 
 can't rotate pieces at levels 4 and 5)
  
  Puzzle Mode: Clear areas with given pieces. There is 200 puzzles in this mode.
  
  Mission Mode: 
 Complete given mission before you run out of time. It is harder, when pieces don't work for you (multi-player 
 option)
  
  My opinion from each mode:
  Classic: Same old, same old... Nothing new (expect you can HOLD one piece in each mode)
  
  Push: 
 Like rope pull, but... Nothing new in this one.
  
  Catch: Good mode for people who are bored to basic Tetris. Addicting!
  
  Touch: Well.... Good 
 and bad in single mode. Rotating is pain and sometimes the pieces go too far. But fun and challenging.
 
  
  Puzzle: "Hard" puzzles and really addicting. It is harder to see where the pieces go.
  
  Mission: The best for last! This is the ultimate Tetris mode. Really addicting and challenging. 
 The faster you do it, the harder is the next mission, I think... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DLB2
Rating: 9.1
Date: Jun 8, 2006 5:32 pm PT
Review:  The original Tetris was an amazing game, so I was expecting a lot from Tetris DS. Nintendo's classic 
 puzzle game combined with 'Touch Generation' gaming was sure to be interesting, at the very least. 
 
  
  From the moment you turn it on, the things you see range from familiar to strange, but it doesn't 
 take long to get acquainted with the feel, concept, and flow of the game. 
  
  There are, as you may know, 6 modes in this installment of Tetris, and each offers a few options 
 within. Standard is the most like the original Tetris. Even if you haven't played the game since 
 the Gameboy days, you'll be at home; the two options are to see if you can clear 200 lines or how 
 effectively you can clear 25 lines. 
  
  Next mode is Push, in which you engage in a kind of tug-of-war against a computer opponent; when 
 you clear lines, you gain ground! Touch mode is a laid-back puzzle where you use the touch screen 
 to drag the tetriminos around to clear the lines. Puzzle mode (my least favorite) is also a puzzle 
 where you must drop the pieces in the right order to clear the stage. In mission mode, you gain 
 points from clearing the lines as specified (ie. use a certain piece) . Finally, Catch mode (my 
 favorite) takes Tetris to a new level; you stack the blocks in four directions, rotating the plane 
 all the while to form a 4x4 square of blocks; it's hard to describe, but it's really fun. All the 
 modes have the backdrop of one or more classic Nintendo games, including Mario, Metroid, and Zelda. 
 
  
  The versatility of Tetris DS is taken to a new level by the Nintendo WiFi Connection. I won't get 
 into it here, but it opens up a lot of possibilities for multiplayer mayhem! 
  
  One thing I would like to have seen is a mode that is more true to the original; even the Standard 
 mode is pretty different - the pieces fall too fast too soon, you can see the order in which pieces 
 will come, and you can hold a piece for later. Still fun, but just not the same. 
  
  To sum it up, Tetris DS is a great game, and a must-have if you're a fan of the genre. Of course, 
 if you don't like puzzles, or can't stand a game that doesn't count your head shots, Tetris DS 
 is probably not for you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tushioh
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 3, 2006 12:23 pm PT
Review:  Tetris DS is one of the most addicting games ever made. I am a BIG fan of tetris and this game 
 made tetris better than ever. The Wi-Fi mode is also fun. I am a great player and i almost never 
 lose. This is a game that I think everybody can enjoy, even if you aren't a fan of tetris. If anyone 
 out there is a fan of Lumines for the Playstation Portable (PSP) than i think you'll love this game. 
 In my opinion, this game MURDERS Lumines. I hope i find you people on Wi-Fi. You can find me on 
 www. ds-play. com..... my name is Cowboy. L!!!!! See you there. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Killermonkey97
Rating: 8.3
Date: Jun 15, 2006 12:30 pm PT
Review:  The highly praised and highly addictive puzzler, Tetris, is now on the Nintendo DS, and even with 
 a Nintendo makeover... a retro Nintendo makeover. That's right, your 8-bit heroes of the 80's and 
 early 90's is the new theme for this addition of Tetris: Tetris DS. Here's my review:
  
  Gameplay: Tetris is now on the DS, but don't expect just the same old Tetris on your DS with Nintendo 
 characters for a background. It's more than that. Nintendo is creative enough to make Tetris into 
 other modes other than its "regular" mode. In fact, Tetris DS has six ways to play Tetris altogether. 
 That's pretty neat, eh? Anyways, here's how the these modes work: first, there's the standard mode, 
 which plays just like the regular Tetris game; basically, you clear these "Tetriblocks" (what I 
 like to call them) by lining them up horizontally as much as you can before the Tetriblocks get 
 to the top, making it game over. Another mode is Push mode, a new way to play Tetris. The rules 
 here are generally a tug-of war form of Tetris, where you clear at least two consecutive lines 
 to, that's right, push the blocks further onto the opponent's side of the field, until you get 
 the Tetriblocks over the oponnent's line, in which you win. If it is the blocks are on your side, 
 however, it means that the opponent wins, making you lose. This is my favorite of all the modes, 
 as it is both fun and a bit strategic in both single player and multiplayer. Moving on, there's 
 also Catch mode, a single player Tetris mode where you have a plus-shaped Tetriblock, as you, as 
 its name suggest, catch all the Tetriblocks falling, as well as dodging the falling Metroids (some 
 will be a little tricky) . Failure will be when you're energy bars empty or you let one Tetriblock 
 fall if not caught. This one isn't really challenging at all, but is quite addictive. Mission Mode 
 is another form of Tetris where you must do challenges while not going over "the line". It's like 
 the regular Tetris, but focusing on doing the goals the game says instead of clearing lines. Another 
 mode is Touch mode, where you use the touch screen's function to clear all the Tetriblocks on the 
 screen to win. Another part to this mode is also where you complete puzzles. Overall, it's pretty 
 fun if you don't have anything else to do, but is a bit gimmicky and mostly not possible to lose. 
 And lastly, there is puzzle mode, where you need to clear Tetriblocks by not playing, but choosing 
 the order and positions of the Tetriblocks chosen. After the first few levels, its alright, but 
 is sort of boring and is kind of frustrating to do after a while, especially for 200 levels. So, 
 in short, Tetris DS is puzzle-paradise in some modes, definately enough to buy but others have 
 some flaws in it, and might even make it a bit boring for a while.
  
  Graphics: Tetris isn't really about the looks, but it helps. So the backgrounds do make it a little 
 more interesting to see. Here's the 8-bit themes of each mode: for Standard, Mario-themed; for 
 Push, Arcade Donkey Kong-themed; for Catch, Metroid; for Touch, Balloon Fighter; for Mission, Zelda-themed; 
 and for Puzzle, Yoshi (a NES puzzle game) . The backgrounds are sort of fun to look at in their 
 retro-ness, but still is just looking at blocks.
  
  Sound: NES classic tracks: Remixed! It's nice to have some "back to roots" music, but you can sort 
 of tell when the music loops, and in some modes, can be sort of annoying (especially the presentation. 
 Okay, but gets really annoying after hearing the retro noises after a billion of times!) . Sound 
 effects are definately Tetris, with a new, old-school twist.
  
  Value: Tetris just got more addictive. Tetris DS not only has up to 10 different people to play 
 (even without the game) on Multiplayer, but also has four-player Wi-fi. It really helps to have 
 someone to play with; alone is addictive, but not enough. But still, Tetris is the most addictive 
 game on the planet, and Tetris DS makes it better.
  
  Tilt: Tetris fans and even puzzle freaks will absolutely love Tetris, especially for the old-schoolers. 
 Other than that, you can rent it if you were interested, but if you're not, then you're not. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SnowBoard_Kid
Rating: 8.1
Date: Jun 4, 2006 1:25 pm PT
Review:  Graphics and Sound:
  
  Yes, it's a Tetris game, so don't expect too much. I will say that it has pretty cool menus and 
 in-game themes; which are all modelled after old-school Nintendo games like Metroid, Mario, Donkey 
 Kong, and Zelda. The sound is pretty cool, however. It features remixes of all the nice old-school 
 tunes that make the entire game as a whole pretty unique. Some of the modes model after the classic 
 games too. Like if you line up tons of cool combos in a row, you'll see Mario clearing old school 
 Mario levels on the top screen while you line up the combos below. Of course, it has its basic 
 bleeps and bloops of Tetris, so it's not stunning.
  
  Gameplay:
  
  This game get's pretty addicting once you learn each mode and start to get good at them. If you've 
 ever played any Tetris game before, it's not like you've already experienced this one. All the 
 different modes and variations mix up the basic Tetris formula. There's also video-clips included 
 to teach you how to play them all, so you never get stuck. The only problem I found is that if 
 you get stuck on some of the puzzles, or if you're really good at marathon puzzles, you can get 
 turned off or bored if you either beat it way too easily, or not at all. Luckily, there's different 
 difficulty settings you can choose from. The new items they added that you can use in-game are 
 also a pretty cool edition; especially in multi-player matches. Add this all up to one of the most 
 addictive puzzle game formulas ever, and you have a really fun puzzle game that feeds all your 
 puzzle cravings in one serving; from brain-teasing puzzles to reflex-testing marathon modes.
  
  Replayability and Value:
  
  This game is pretty good when it comes to this section. It 
 has a lot of multi-player options; from WiFi matches, to single-card and multi-card local play, 
 all for up to 10 players, which is pretty cool. It also boots 6 different modes, and a few different 
 variations on each one, which makes for this game to last a pretty long time if you wanna beat 
 all the scores and missions. Plus, this game can get pretty addicting, which means you'll come 
 back for more a few times just for the heck of it.
  
  Overall:
  
  If you're looking for a DS puzzle game, this is it. Screw all the other ones. They didn't just 
 port basic Tetris over, which is nice to see. They added a ton of new modes and multi-player options 
 that makes this game the most value for your money that any puzzle game can get you.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Crimson_Raven
Rating: 8.8
Date: May 29, 2006 1:36 am PT
Review:  Tetris without question is the most renowned video game of all time. Tetris can be found on almost 
 all major gaming systems, handhelds and even most cell phones have one form of Tetris or another. 
 Tetris is the sensation that started most of the puzzle game franchises out today. Tetris DS is 
 the latest incarnation of the series and is the best version of Tetris ever made. 
  
  Tetris DS is comprised of three different main modes; single-player, multi-player, and Wi-Fi. Single-Player 
 mode in itself has six different modes to choose from. Standard is just what it entitles, standard 
 Tetris with a slight evolution in the gameplay. Move and rotate the falling tetriminos into horizontal 
 lines. The more lines that are cleared at one time the higher the score. Clearing four lines at 
 once is called a Tetris. Players now have the ability to hold a piece for later on in the game 
 and swap it out for the current piece at will. This definitely brings something new to the field. 
 Holding a piece is not only used to save that piece of later, but a good way to get rid of a piece 
 that has no place to fit into. 
  
  Catch mode which is one of the more unusual new modes has players rotating a core of blocks. Tetriminos 
 fall from the top screen, while players must catch the pieces in the set core to try and create 
 a 4 x 4 square of blocks. Create a square and it will explode in ten seconds. Add more blocks to 
 increase the amount bonus points. Blow up falling metroids to earn even more points. Rotate the 
 core to increase the chance of creating a set, but dont turn the core into a falling piece or 
 the piece will explode which causes the player to lose energy. Miss a falling piece and the energy 
 will drop as well. Getting hit by a metroid is the quickest way to drain energy, but can also come 
 in handy to remove a section of unwanted blocks. 
  
  Mission mode has players completing a set objective, whether it being to clear two lines at once 
 or using a specific piece to clear the line. The catch is players start off with a set number of 
 hearts and it decreases as time goes by. It's a clever way of hiding that it's a timed event by 
 having the time in the form of the hearts from the Zelda series. Players can play this mode in 
 two different styles; Marathon mode or time trial. 
  
  Puzzle mode provides a set amount of blocks to complete the given lines. There are 200 puzzles 
 in all to complete. To add to the twist the pieces drop automatically. Players select the piece 
 and the rotation of the piece and the game sets them in the field. It may sound simple, but the 
 later on levels can frustrate the best of players out there. 
  
  Touch mode has players using the stylus to rotate and move blocks already placed in the field. 
 Double tap the block to rotate it. Move one piece and several from above will fall down and complete 
 put a damper on a players plan. 
  
  The last of the six modes is Push. Push has two players playing at the same time on the same field. 
 One starts on top, the other starts on the bottom, but both send their respective pieces towards 
 the center. Lines are made by the pieces in the center. Clear two or more lines and the matrix 
 moves towards the opponent. Just as the name entitles one must push the matrix off the other player's 
 side. 
  
  Multiplayer is where Tetris shines. Tetris supports both single cart and multi cart play up to 
 10 players and Wi-Fi up to four. In wireless multiplayer three different modes are able to be played; 
 standard, mission and push. Different options can be turned on or off including setting the use 
 of items, the difficulty, and teams. Random blocks will drop with the tetriminos. If this block 
 is cleared in a line, the player receives an item. The abilities gained from the items range from, 
 letting tetriminos drop faster, to flipping the playfield. Wi-Fi also has three different play 
 modes. Players can partake in standard 2-player mode with no items, 4-player mode with items, or 
 push mode. Set-up is basically the same from Mario Kart, so new friend codes must be given out. 
 Searching for a game is as easy as choosing which mode one wants to play in if no friends are available. 
 
  
  Along with new game modes Tetris DS shows off a new look. Each mode is styled by a classic Nintendo 
 theme. Nintendo hit the mark with the new retro remix style used. For those that weren't fans or 
 didn't like any of the classic Nintendo games it may be a turnoff; but who doesn't like Mario, 
 Zelda, or Metroid? Along with the looks each mode supports remix's to the classic songs. There 
 are 21 songs in total, 9 of which must be unlocked. The songs are spread out among classics such 
 as Mario, Zelda, Balloon Fight, Metroid, Yoshi's Cookie, Donkey Kong and more. It would have been 
 nice though to hear more classic Tetris songs. 
  
  There are some options that Nintendo locked out that can't be turned off. The new addition of the 
 hold box is always on; even in multiplayer. More importantly the infinite rotation trick is still 
 in the game that was first seen in Tetris Worlds on the Game Boy Advance. Thankfully people who 
 abuse this in single player, which makes marathon mode a breeze, can't fully take advantage of 
 it in multiplayer. It is usable in multiplayer, but will cost the player a considerable time sink 
 that will lead to their downfall in the match. Tetris DS is a must own for all DS players or fans 
 of the series.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Peter_Skerritt
Rating: 8.9
Date: May 27, 2006 4:47 pm PT
Review:  If you haven't bought Tetris DS yet, I have an idea of what you might be thinking... 
  
  Do we really need another Tetris game? 
  
  Well, I'm going to do my best to convince you that 
 the answer to that question is an unmistakable YES. Here are the reasons why: 
  
  New Gameplay Modes: While there's (obviously) the original form of Tetris waiting to be played, 
 that's far from the only mode of play that Tetris DS has to offer. For traditionalists who are 
 looking for a minor twist to the standard game, travel with Link to Hyrule for the Mission Mode -- 
 where you must perform certain tasks before Link's hearts run out or the blocks reach the top of 
 the screen. For players looking for a competitive challenge, try joining Donkey Kong in Push Mode... 
 where the objective is to push the blocks all the way up (or down) into your opponent's Danger 
 Zone. For a more drastic change, there's Catch Mode, in which players must fill a block with blocks 
 and try to clear cubes of at least four blocks by four blocks. Lastly, there's the Touch Mode, 
 in which players use the stylus to drag down Tetronimos in order to clear lines and create chains. 
 
  
  Still not satisfied? Hmmm... How about... 
  
  Wi-Fi Multiplayer: Yes, Tetris DS takes advantage of the Nintendo DS' Wi-Fi capabilities. So, if 
 you happen to be dining at a McDonald's with a Wi-Fi Hot Spot, you could take some time and play 
 against opponents from around the world... for free! You can battle one-on-one, in a four-way battle 
 with power-ups, lock up in the aforementioned Push Mode against an opponent that you cannot see. 
 This option alone almost infinitely extends the replay value of the game, if the single-player 
 modes become stale. 
  
  OK... you're still shaking your head. You're quite the tough cookie. Here's another reason that 
 Tetris DS impressed me: 
  
  Nintendo NEStalgia: Yes, Nintendo capitalized on its popular franchises to highlight the game. 
 From Mario to Samus Aran to Link and beyond, longtime Nintendo fans will appreciate the nods to 
 the NES era. Each mode has its own Nintendo theme, in fact. When playing standard Tetris, you'll 
 hear a remix of themes from the Super Mario Bros. series... plus, if you look at the top screen, 
 you can see Mario making his way through various areas of the Mushroom Kingdom. That's only one 
 example. 
  
  This is, perhaps, the best version of Tetris to date. The new modes only add to the concept of 
 the original game, without being outrageous departures from it. The multiplayer and Wi-Fi modes 
 add replay value once you think you've capped your ability playing single-player. Add on some Nintendo 
 fan service by way of popular Nintendo franchises, and, well... you have yourself a winner. 
  
  See? I told you that I'd convince you. Much like the original Game Boy came with a good version 
 of Tetris in its own right back in 1989, No Nintendo DS owner should be without his or her own 
 copy of Tetris DS. Sure, the game doesn't come with the system, like it did in 1989, but it's a 
 must-own. 
  
  Now get going, before the store closes! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hipppvix
Rating: 8.7
Date: May 27, 2006 4:44 am PT
Review:  Tetris DS is a pretty fun game. There are six different game modes you can play the game. Plus 
 in those different modes there are sub modes under that. Plus in the Mario one if you watch the 
 top screen, he starts to go through levels while you play the game. And the same in some of the 
 other ones. And some of the modes I have never even seen before so they must of made them just 
 for this game. But, whatever way you want to play Tetris and now where ever you want to play Teris, 
 it is still a fun game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sfenty
Rating: 8.8
Date: May 25, 2006 8:22 pm PT
Review:  Gamespot really doesn't like rerelases. I cna appreciate that fact, but a great game is a great 
 game. And when you take one of the greatest games of all time, and make it better, you have to 
 give credit where it is due. This Nintendo themed Tetris is wildly addictive and going online is 
 really fun, if humbling (there are some really great players out there) . This is gameplay in its 
 purest, simplest form. I've played mostly the standard versions as they interest me the most, but 
 there are other ways to play thrown in for more value. The one score that made no sense from GS 
 was the sound score -- the sounds in this game are great -- all the best Nintendo songs playing while 
 you play Tetris. I got lucky and found this game for $19 at a Walmart clearance sale. I'm very 
 glad I purchased it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jdknight21
Rating: 8.8
Date: May 25, 2006 1:03 pm PT
Review:  To me, this is the best version since the glory days. Tetris was always great on a handheld and 
 remains the same today.
  The controls are very simple, and are what you would imagine them. Perfect actually, even though 
 there isn't really much to use but the D pad and one button, unless you really want to use the 
 stylus, which I haven't tried.
  I was actually able to beat all 20 levels in original, which suprised me. Multiplayer is great, 
 and I find myself falling somewhere in the middle of the pack when I play on-line.
  Also, the Push mode is very fun, too, and is competitive but beatable on level 3, but gets alot 
 harder once you move up, and you may find yourself losing a drastic amount more than you are winning 
 against the computer.
  Most other game modes don't provide much other than extra ways to use Tetrimondo. They didn't seem 
 necessary, but I'm sure some people appreciate them.
  This is a very solid title. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lordrrr69
Rating: 9.7
Date: May 18, 2006 12:18 am PT
Review:  When you think of gaming, some things just flash in your mind instantly. Super Mario bros., Pac 
 Man, Pong and Tetris. Tetris is the medium for puzzle games, a game that started a revolution of 
 matching bricks and a number of spin offs, all of which pale in comparison to the original. So 
 how on earth do you improve on a game with a flawless design and diverse background? Nintendo has 
 the answer.
  Tetris DS has six different modes of gameplay. The first of which is standard mode. This is basically 
 the same tetris your boss plays on the computer at work or your friend plays on his calculator 
 at lunch, with a minor twist- the top screen sports actual gameplay of the original Super Mario 
 Bros for the NES, and it has awesome remixs of the over world theme from SMB (seriously, they rock!) . 
 As you progress, Mario advances further. For instance, if you clear a line, he may get a mushroom. 
 If you cleat two lines he may kill a goomba. As you get farther you unlock different games, like 
 SMB 3 and the original tetris (good luck with the last one!) . Definantly my faviorite part of Tetris 
 DS, and Im only getting started.
  Another mode is touch mode, which, you guessed it, uses the touch screen. But in a way you may 
 not guess. Basically, touch mode has you doing a puzzle that resembles one of those slide puzzle 
 doohickeys you find in piatas on your fifth birthday. The theme is balloon fight, and you need 
 to get the crate of ballons at the top down to the ground. It works very well, and is one of tetris 
 DSs finer moments. 
  Push mode (federals faviorite mode) is a lot like it sounds. Judging by how well you do, you push 
 the puzzle toward the opponents side. The first to push it all the way toward their opponent is 
 the winner. Its theme is the original donkey kong. Yeah, push mode is straightforward, and I didnt 
 like it that much. Its pretty fun in multiplayer though, but it still feels very broken and it 
 is difficult to attach your pieces together while still trying to clear lines.
  Catch mode is great and very innovative. In fact, its probably the most innovative mode (next to 
 touch mode) in this game. It has you starting off with a four brick block (or one brick) and tetriminos 
 fall down the screen. Your job is to catch every one to clear some lines, then catch more (avoiding 
 the hazards) without filling up the whole screen. Its metroid themed and it has some nice music, 
 though it doesnt really sounde like a remix (just the old version) and the backround shows pictures 
 of the original metroid. A very nice and innovative addition to the game and one of its better 
 (but not best) modes. 
  Puzzle mode is great, though not terrific. Its meant to challenge only your brain, not your reflexes 
 (unlike standard mode, which does both) . Its based on the little known puzzle game yoshis cookie, 
 and has excellent remixs that sound like steel drums (which isnt that bad) . It also has some 
 artwork based on the game as background. The object is to use each piece it gives you once, while 
 clearing every line there is. It chooses the position for you, so all you do is pick the puzzle 
 piece. Eventually, it just leads to guess and check gameplay, and its easy to pick once you get 
 the idea. Fun, and it has 2- freaking- 00 puzzles each, so it will last you a while. Some are harder 
 than figuring out a rubix cube, some are so easy youll get it on the first or second try, but 
 all are addictive and fun. 
  Mission mode pits you in the Zelda universe. It gives you a limited amount of time to do certain 
 missions. Some include clearing two lines with a square, others may say clear four lines at once. 
 There isnt much of a variety in terms of how many missions you do, which is a bit annoying because 
 it gets repetitive. Mission mode is my least favorite mode in Tetris DS it doesnt function well 
 and it doesnt stay that fresh and fun. However, it still is fun for a while, and getting new high 
 scores add on to the replay value. 
  Well, that about wraps up my review for tetris DS, but there are still a few more modes I might 
 add. First, this game has wifi, the modes of which are two player standard mode, four player standard 
 mode and push mode. It also has wireless local play, and the modes of which include an amazing 
 10 player standard mode (but good luck finding ten players with this game) . There is also a music 
 test, and I find myself using it more than my MP3 player. The game is a must have for the DS, something 
 that must be owned. I find myself playing this game more than Metroid Prime Hunters! Tetris DS 
 is not only an outstanding game, its legendary. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: fishdalf
Rating: 7.3
Date: May 17, 2006 11:56 pm PT
Review:  Tetris is the art of placing Tetriminos into a grid with the sole aim of clearing them in horizontal 
 rows, now we have the blatantly obvious out of the way lets go back to where it all began. Tetris 
 made a name for itself way back with the release of the Game Boy, such a name infact that many 
 gamers still consider to this day the original block-busting classic their favourite game of 
 all time. There has been much deliberation as to whether the Game Boy made Tetris famous or if 
 it was infact the other way around, I will leave this open for you to decide but there is no question 
 in my mind. Perhaps the bigger question should be how a game with such simplistic gameplay mechanics 
 builds to a game that is so compelling and addictive it has you coming back for more time and time 
 again. Im sure many of you as did I played the original over and over until your eyes bled; then 
 as time passed played it on your mobile phone or some other similar device and did it all over 
 again. It just never seems to get old and why should it? Tetris essentially redefined a genre and 
 here we are 17 years later and its still withstanding the test of time. 
  
  Tetris DS stays pretty close to its roots, the gameplay that made it so famous could have been 
 easily sacrificed for the sake of a gimmick but thankfully Im pleased to say it hasnt. This game 
 does however add minor tweaks here and there which are so well-implemented that once you play through 
 the game a few times you will start to appreciate them more and more. Perhaps the biggest addition 
 comes in the form of the hold function; this allows you to store a single block of your choosing 
 with a quick tap of the R trigger. There are a few reasons why this comes in handy; sometimes you 
 may hold a piece to help you later on through the game like a straight Tetrimino for example. Alternatively 
 you may simply not like the piece that is falling and decide to swap it for your benefit. This 
 adds new depth and tactics and in some instances can turn the tide of battle in your favour. Imagine 
 the game handing you a straight piece which in turn you use to clear 4 rows; then using your stored 
 straight piece you continue to clear another 4 rows and put your opponent in all sorts of trouble. 
 The game also grants you the ability to see the next 6 pieces coming your way, while some may argue 
 this makes it way too easy I disagree, I think it allows for the game to be played at a quicker 
 pace. 
  
  Lets get one thing cleared up for anyone who is looking to buy this game, this is a multiplayer 
 game. Yes it may have single-player aspects but this is just icing on what is a very delicious 
 multiplayer cake, so if you are buying this game for the sole purpose of playing by yourself you 
 will be sorely disappointed. This game allows for up to 10 players to compete with each other at 
 the same time which sounds dauntingly fantastic if you ask me. If you have that many friends with 
 that many DS systems then you are going to be in for one hell of a gaming experience, whats more 
 you only need one single game cartridge to delve into the multiplayer madness. The Tetris trip 
 can also be taken online and wont be too dissimilar to what the Mario Kart fans amongst us are 
 used to. The lobbys and set-up screens look alarmingly similar and you have the option of entering 
 a specific friend code or jumping straight into the action. 
  
  There are a few multiplayer modes on offer here, none compare to the original but are worth a small 
 mention none-the-less. Firstly I feel I should mention the option of adding items to your basic 
 game through the multiplayer options screen, this adds fresh elements to your matches. Certain 
 blocks will have question marks attached to them, clear a line with a question mark on and you 
 receive an item that can be unleashed with a tap of the X button. These items are thought out very 
 well, you will use lightning which prevents your opponent rotating their pieces, mushrooms which 
 speeds their blocks up and stars which give you nothing but straight pieces for a limited time. 
 There was so much potential here but sadly there are only a handful of items on offer, perhaps 
 if we are to see a sequel they can make better use of the item concept. There is a newly added 
 Mission Mode which sees you competing in a series of mini-challenges; the user who achieves the 
 most points within a set time limit is the winner or if you prefer the user who completes a certain 
 number of challenges first takes the crown. These challenges vary from clearing specific rows within 
 your grid to clearing as many rows as you can with square shaped Tetriminos. While these can be 
 pretty fun you will start to see the same old challenges requested of you over and over again. 
 The other multiplayer mode on offer goes by the name of Push Mode and is rather fun; kind of confusing 
 at first but once you get the hang of it you will really appreciate its value. Lets just say you 
 and your opponent are both using the same grid only from opposite ends in a crazy Tetris battle 
 to the death. 
  
  This game does have a single-player but just about every single mode is trivial and has nothing 
 to offer in terms of rewards thus making them pretty pointless really. Then again Tetris has never 
 tried to be anything other than a multiplayer game, its just s shame they cannot be bothered to 
 implement a single-player actually worth playing. Even though it is against my better judgment 
 I will briefly list the modes the single-player has to offer you. There is Touch Mode which lets 
 players use the touch screen to form combos; this gets boring after about 10 minutes and the control 
 system is borderline awful. There is Catch Mode which sees you catching clusters of blocks and 
 rearranging them into grids of fours; while it can be fun for a while it doesnt have any real 
 lasting appeal. There are also a few other modes which are even worse than these, lets move on 
 shall we.
  
  The sound is simplistic as is the way with just about every Tetris game thus far, the soundtrack 
 and effects while simplistic do make for a pretty nice backdrop. I just cannot believe they havent 
 included any of the original soundtracks that fans have come to know and love, what were they thinking!?. 
 Dont get me wrong the new tunes are good but they cannot compare to the music of the original 
 or games such as Tetrisphere. The graphics are good but a game like Tetris isnt exactly going 
 to push the DS to its graphical limits. There are quirky little animations taking place on the 
 top screen as you play across the bottom though, just a shame these dont even remotely have anything 
 to do with the actual game of Tetris. All-in-all this game is more of the same, the only real reason 
 to buy this would be to experience the multiplayer on a much larger scale and in all honesty that 
 sounds like something I want in on. 
  
  Gameplay - Same addictive gameplay with the added option of playing your friends wirelessly or 
 online via Wi-Fi, this is where the action lies. 
  
  Graphics - Dont expect too much in terms of graphical depth, this is a Tetris game dont forget 
 and I wouldnt want it any other way. 
  
  Sound - Some really catchy tunes make for an entertaining backdrop, however the lack of classic 
 Tetris melodies is a major disappointment. 
  
  Value - Pure puzzling action that is long-lasting from a multiplayer perspective and none existent 
 in terms of any single-player involvement. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Surllio
Rating: 8.5
Date: May 17, 2006 7:13 pm PT
Review:  When I first heard about Tetris DS, I was iffy on the whole situation. Every system since the NES 
 and Gameboy have had countless versions of the game. The problem with this is, none of them quite 
 live up to the standards set by the original. Tetris was a game that was challenging, fun, and 
 addictive.
  
  When Tetris Worlds came out, it was a bomb. Literally. How can you put a story mode into Tetris? 
 The did it, and of course, it didnt' make much sense. After that, I had all but given up hope on 
 a good version of Tetris to be released.
  
  Then, here comes Tetris DS. While its practically dripping with Nintendo nastalgia, its still Tetris. 
 Some of the more recent features have found their way into the mix, but most old school players 
 will just ignore them. Holding peices and the live peice until it stops moving features are nice, 
 but not something I use often.
  
  The thing I loved most about this version of Tetris was the challenge modes. Puzzles, speed races, 
 all of it. This game is so full of content that its hard to not find yourself trying out something.
 
  
  The different modes are Standard, Push, Touch, Puzzle, Mission, and Catch. 
  
  Standard is your normal start at the begining and see how far you can go Tetris. While the Nintendo 
 backgrounds are a nice touch, they do get a bit distractive once in a while. The music also changes 
 the higher you get. 
  
  Push mode pits you against an opponet. Your goal is to keep scoring lines and force your opponent 
 down towards the fire. This works reverse for him as well, as he is pushing you up towards spikes. 
 While this mode can be challenging, its not as fun as normal Tetris.
  
  Touch is an interesting challenge round, where the Tetris blocks are stacked high into the air, 
 with a cage of balloons at the very top. Your job is to rotate and slide the peices to form lines 
 and combos of lines to get the balloons down to the ground. This mode can be addicting, but the 
 scoring system is based more off of combos that are harder to set up than one might think.
  
  Puzzle is basically as set of challenges. The game says finish this or do this, and you do 
 it. There are a TON of them, some challenging, others simple.
  
  Mission is neat. In a Zelda theme, you have to complete the challenges presented to you before 
 your hearts run out. While this might seem easy, its not. You start with a blank Tetris stage, 
 and have to accomplish the goals by setting them up yourself. However, you have no clue what the 
 next goal could be. This makes you really have to think as to where your putting your peices. Good 
 for practicing advanced tricks.
  
  Catch is odd. You have a single block that you move around and catch falling peices, attempting 
 to created a small square, at which point it explodes and takes out everything in the four directions 
 out with it. While the premise is neat, the mode is very slow moving at first, almost unbarably 
 slow to tell the truth. When it does pick up, its too little too late, and usually is too fast 
 for most people.
  
  Lets not forget about the multiplayer Tetris mode, which features up to 10 people on one cart on 
 a local connection, competeing. This is one of the big selling points, as its Tetris with a Mario 
 Kart twist.
  
  I would recomment Tetris DS to anyone who is looking for a great DS title that they can play alone 
 or with a few friends. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: videogamr49
Rating: 8.1
Date: May 16, 2006 10:43 am PT
Review:  Howdy again, videogamr49 here again for another review.
  
  Tetris DS is the newest puzzle game to hit the Nintendo DS. Tetris is a name which almost everyone 
 can talk about in relating to a video game. People are probably wondering "Hey, I can just play 
 Tetris online for free! Why should I even bother paying for this game?" I'm here to tell the multiple 
 reasons why this is different from any other Tetris game ever made...
  
  PROS:
  -Gameplay is fun and simple.
  -6 Single Player Game Modes to choose from.
  -WiFi enabled!
 
  -Fun and competitve multiplayer.
  -Classic Nintendo
  
  ouch: Using the stylus, you move Tetris blocks over and try to clear lines by just moving the blocks. 
 Try to reach the top for... BALLOONS!
  
  Catch: Using a single block, rotate the base and catch falling blocks but don't allow the blocks 
 to pile up too much.
  
  Mission: In a basic style simmilar to standard, use the blocks to clear certain missions such as 
 "Clear two lines with a (Teris Block) ". Advance on by clearing each mission. Take too much time 
 and you may find trouble.
  
  Push: A comptetive version of Standard tetris. Using the same base and two sides of the screens, 
 clear lines to "push" the blocks past the danger line of your opponent!
  
  ... Sounds cool? Cool, now another great feature about this game is that it uses Nintendo's WiFi 
 Connection; you can now play people on tetris from around the world! Finally, one of the main reasons 
 to get this game is that its theme is Classic 8-bit Nintendo. Each gameplay mode focuses on a certain 
 Classic Nintendo game.
  
  ----CONS ----
  
  For the CONS, when you are playing multiplayer you may find some little lagg which annoys the heck 
 out of any good Tetris player. It affects the most when you are farthest away from the other player 
 you could be. The Lagg is also noticed while playing Nintendo WiFi Connection sometimes. The Touch 
 screen in the game is minimally used; the only game which supports it is the TOUCH mode and PUZZLE 
 mode.
  
  Another CON is HIGHLY variable. The gameplay music is mainly classical 8-bit music. If you didn't 
 fancy that music than you may find a huge regret in play this game.
  
  The last CON is with the WiFi mode. The WiFi mode is limited to only two versions of Standard (2 
 or 4 players w/ items) , and Push (2 players only) .
  
  ---OVERALL ----
  
  Overall, the game is fun and simple. If you are a fan of Tetris than this game is for you. If you 
 aren't a fan of tetris and would like to get into the action, get this game. The game is fun and 
 interesting and is recommended to those who like puzzle games and own a Nintendo DS. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ramon88us
Rating: 9.2
Date: May 15, 2006 9:16 am PT
Review:  Tetris was introduced to the portable gaming world in 1989 with the GameBoy, ever since there has 
 been many remakes and clones on cell phones, key chains, and home consoles but the best has always 
 been on the Game Boy. In 2006 we finally get a new Tetris for the NIntendo DS which makes Tetris 
 much better. In Tetris DS we get new game modes such as Touch Mode were you have to get rid of 
 every block by making lines using the Touch Pad which takes advantage of the DS touch screen. Another 
 new feature in Tetris is the online play which lets gamers from around the world compete against 
 each other in different games of Tetris with the Wi-Fi connection. Probably the best feature of 
 this game itself are the classic Nintendo themes of Super Mario, Gyromite, Donkey Kong, Zelda, 
 and Metroid. So if you've been wanting to get a new Tetris with many new features this is it! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Trendkill351
Rating: 9.7
Date: May 14, 2006 10:05 am PT
Review:  tetris ds is the newest instalment to tetris. you cant go wrong with tetris, it has the standard 
 mode puzzles and this new touch mode. most people would say i already own a tetris why this one? 
 well simply because its online playable . as long as you own a ds and a wirless rouder you should 
 own this game its worth every dollar in this game the only thing that i didnt like was you cant 
 talk to pple on online play which i fpund quite stupid. this game add a whole bunch of NES themed 
 levels mostly mario but if your great at tetris you will get into the higher elvels of zelda donkey 
 metriod and othe classics 
::::::

::::::
UserName: NOCASHGM_Bob
Rating: 9.8
Date: May 13, 2006 1:40 pm PT
Review:  First and foremost let me say what a let-down the gamespot review was. Tetris DS is geared towards 
 both casual players, but as well it is geared towards those of us who've supported and loved Nintendo 
 since it's inception.
  
  To say that a reviewer  the retro style is fine, but when dealing 
 with a fan-based aspect of the game .. get off the fence. If you've not an old-school gamer, then 
 like it or lump it. If you ARE an old-school gamer, then be quiet with the "overkill" statements. 
 That's the point, to appeal to gamers like I, who would wish the game were even MORE retro styled.
 
  
  On to the review now...
  
  Tetris with Mario, DK, Link, Samus... Right on man!
  This game has style bubbling out the GBA slot, with the retro themed modes, and ripping re-mixes 
 of tunes that made me grin like an idiot while playing. Excellent decision Nintendo, keep up the 
 style as you always do!
  
  Now, as you've already read about the different modes and aspects of Tetris DS from the GS review, 
 I'll get right into my thoughts of them.
  
  Standard mode is, well, fairly standard to the tetris series, although I would have prefered the 
 option to turn on/off or modify individual features added over the years such as the next block 
 windows. Great fun however, and as any Grey-Blooded Gameboy fan will tell you, original is always 
 tastes better. (the extra features like queueing could even be the toppings!)
  
  Push mode is perfect for those who competitive individuals who always insist what masters the are, 
 or those who love taking those above-mentioned down to chinatown. (give 'em hell dude, those defeated 
 expressions are priceless ; )
  
  Touch mode was a great way to utilize the stylus, and is in my opinion, one of the best decisions 
 the could have made, heres why: Too many companies ruin a game by trying to incorporate Stylus 
 support, even if a game does not need it, occasionally even ruining the entire game. So bravo Nintendo, 
 and good job. Using the stylus for the entire game would have been bad through my point of view. 
 Separating stylus support to a new mode was the right choice.
  
  In the Ballon-Fight Themed Touch mode you can play the "Tower" which is a very tall set of blocks 
 with a ballon box you must break and release by droping it to the ground. This is accomplished 
 by using the stylus to move tetraminos left and right, and rotating them by quickly touching one 
 point on the tetramino, then another. portions of each tetramino not cleared in a line are broken 
 off and may be manipulatied individually from there. Rotating the blocks with the stylus takes 
 some getting use to though, and at first can seem almost bizzare in it's usage. 
  
  Catch mode is by far the strangest mode yet, but somehow the Metroid theme, and just the game mechanics 
 themselves work. I loved it, and have to say, the Mteroid theme doesn't just feel like window dressing 
 here (although retro-NES theming is awsome, more please Nintendo ^_^) , it actually makes the mode 
 seem more solid and bleds the mode into the package better than could be expected, given the radical 
 departure from standard Tetris. I wonder if that Russian genius is turning over in his sleep... 
 probably not.
  
  Mission mode, while not entirely new, is excellent, and could benefit only by a random mission 
 generator (how cool would that be) . Gameplay involves solving missions such as clearing 2 lines 
 with a square tetramino, while keeping Hyrule's overworld clear of debris. Clearing a mission clears 
 5 lines from the overworld, while failing a mission by losing all your hearts (The time meter) 
 adds an additional 5 lines. Solid gameplay, and a great way to spend a few minutes of idle time 
 completing just one more mission.
  
  Puzzle mode is a Yoshi's Cookie themed mode where you try to clear the playfield of all it's blocks 
 by selecting one of a few tetraminos, then it's orientation. To drop a tetramino, it must clear 
 at least 1 line, and so enters the puzzle aspect. This mode can be as fast or slow-moving as you 
 want, which adds to it's allure, giving a Tetris player a mode for those times when slow relaxed 
 games are in order.
  
  All in all, I'd say that the only caveats to Teris DS are that it took way too long for Nintendo 
 to realize that this game needs to be out there ^_^, and that the stylus support (namely rotating 
 tetraminos with it) can be an unusual affair at first, and more Wi-Fi options would have been better, 
 but are not missed too badly.
  
  Now we all need to wait for Tetris DS 2, with more modes, more retro themes, and a random puzzle/mission 
 generator, and the ability to create youre own puzzles/missions to share over Wi-Fi. I'm drooling 
 already! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: masterds64
Rating: 8.8
Date: May 4, 2006 10:32 pm PT
Review:  My history on this:
  Tetris is a classic series everyone knows, young and old, and I grown up with the original, and 
 this one is the best I've seen.
  
  Modes:
  The game has many modes, the basic tetris standard (which has several modes) which is where you 
 would be most of the time, mission (like standard) but gives you an objective to do (if you don't 
 do it you get 5 lines) , puzzle where it gives you a couple of teteminos to solve the mess on the 
 top screen, touch which makes most use of the touch screen (like puzzle) where you move pieces 
 with the stylus, like standard but the pieces have already landed, to push (push you opponent to 
 the bottom of the screen before they do the same to you) to my favourite, catch, where the pieces 
 drop, but you don't move those, instead you move the core to fit them in.
  
  Presentation:
  The game has been given a wash of nintendo characters, and each modes has their 
 own style, standard features mario (but as you go on you see other games and characters) , mission 
 has link from legend of zelda, puzzle has yoshi, touch has balloon trip styling, push is the original 
 dk to add to the looks, to catch which has (my favourite) samus from metroid, and the backgrounds 
 may change as you play depending on mode.
  
  Sound:
  Each mode, like the styling, has it's own music to accompany the game it is from, and while some 
 get turned off by super mario music, I love it, because they are all remixes (have a listen to 
 the super mario bros. 3 remix) .
  
  Graphics:
  It's tetris, it is basic, but does it have to be any better?
  
  Multi player:
  The best part, 
 10 players offline can compete in standard, with or without items (like the one in mario kart, 
 with some roles reversed) , mission, and push.
  Online up to four can go at it, with 2-player standard (keep an eye on it, this is where I am) , 
 4 player standard with items (a hard challenge, as the guy who go here have practiced) and push, 
 while online could have had more modes and players, it is enough to keep me satisfied, and you 
 also get a wi-fi rating to let others know how good you are, and changes if you win or lose, only 
 bad part is that you can't run from the aces, you have to take them head on.
  You can't play with just people in you region, nor does beating or losing to friends affect your 
 score, but still, one only a couple of puzzle games that have online, and is good, plus it seems 
 similar to mario kart with it's options.
  
  Overall:
  If you don't like tetris, or if no good at puzzle games, keep away, but if you have the time, brain 
 power and patience, this is right for you, plus the game technically never ends, and the only problem 
 other than muti-player mode problems is that standard mode has been made easier, and the score 
 stops at a certain point, but keeps going regardless.
  Other than that it is the best in puzzling I've played in years.
  NOW GO AND MAKE SOME TETRIS'S! 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ssfaraz
Rating: 8.8
Date: Apr 29, 2006 1:46 pm PT
Review:  The graphics are bright and colorful, and the touch mode looks alot better than the others. The 
 old animated sprites add a cool touch to it too. Also, I like how on the top screen most of the 
 time there will be mario or some other retro NES game up there.
  
  The Gameplay is the same as is always was. Get the block, make lines, clear lines, get points, 
 block fall faster, you lose. The push mose is interesting. The more lines you clear the further 
 it pushes your opponet down. I like the concept of it. The puzzle mode is hard as anything. I got 
 up to around 126 and gave up. There are a total of 200 puzzles in all. The touch mode is my personal 
 favorite. The touch mode implies the properties of gravity for once! And its also pretty hard after 
 the 3rd level.
  
  The sound is all re-mixes of old school NES music. It's alright, not the best though.
  
  The 
 value is lacking. Once you finish the single player, your done. You can try to beat your friends 
 high score, but it doesn't last long.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Thorpe89
Rating: 7.1
Date: Apr 16, 2007 12:10 pm PT
Review:  Tetris DS is definitely a game worth buying. Tetris was made for the handheld and not for the console 
 (see how bad Tetris Worlds was) .
  
  There are several different modes in the game. Single player games are the most addictive and you 
 can play against someone locally or via the Nintendo Wi-Fi Connection. Basically, when you play 
 against someone you have to win by not filling the screen all the way to the top with your blocks. 
 In order to make your other opponent lose more easily you can push your lines onto their screen. 
 So wiping out three lines on your screen will cause all of those to come up on their screen. This 
 is pretty much like the VS CPU mode on the Standard game mode in single player. As well as the 
 standard Tetris there are some other modes too. Catch is where you create a 4x4 set of blocks to 
 make the core explode, Mission is where you have to complete objectives (like clear so many lines) 
 before all your hearts go down, Puzzle is where you solve some tricky Tetris puzzles, Touch is 
 where the stylus finally has some use for this game - by using the stylus you have to clear some 
 blocks by dragging them and the other mode is Push where you clear the lines in order to push your 
 opponent down. Out of all these modes I still prefer Standard but if you want a challenge try doing 
 some missions.
  
  Is it just as addictive as the original on Game Boy? Well, although you are in a small space on 
 the touch screen I still think all the addictive elements are still there. Slightly different controls 
 but nothing too drastic. One new thing I like is that you see a placeholder to show you where your 
 block is going to drop.
  
  The graphics are colourful and you get sequences appear on the top screen (like Mario on the NES) . 
 I think making the blocks look a bit more 3D-ish could of been put in, though.
  
  As for sound, you get some annoying retro noises in the menus and when playing you get different 
 background music depending on what level you are on. Music can be listened to in the Options menu 
 as well if you like. There is Mario, Zelda, Death Mountain, Metroid Charge, Total Yoshi and more 
 music (some has to be unlocked) .
  
  I think it is worth getting - not for its online play but for its addicting single player play. 
 Although Mario Kart DS is good for its online modes I don't think Tetris DS does too well online.
 
  
  Worth getting for Tetris fans. Oh, if you don't know how to play a Tetris game it is all explained 
 in the tutorial offered on the game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: JRay8to
Rating: 8.8
Date: Apr 27, 2006 9:46 am PT
Review:  As my header said, if you are a puzzle fan you have need to get it no qustions asked.
  This game takes retro nintedo stuff and sets it as the back drop for this game.
  There are a 
 bunch of new and cool modes. 
  You get
  Touch/Touch Puzzle. This is a cool 100% touch screen game play system. You have to move the pices 
 side to side and turn them to make soild lines. You do this untill you get the the the crate of 
 ballons to the bottom of the scree.
  With Touch Puzzle you have to get all of the blocks gone. There are 50 puzzles in all.
  
  Standerd 
 mode is just that. You play the old Tetris that you know and love. With all the added tricks that 
 have been added over the years. From showing 5 of your next pices to holding one. You can also 
 vs the computer.
  
  Push mode is the most uniqe mode in this game. You play play the top part of the screen with going 
 down and the computer plays going up. Everytime you get lines the whole thing drops down to the 
 computers side. And when the computer gets a line it goes up. When it gets to the far side of one 
 end the other person loses. 
  
  Puzzle mode is just that puzzle tetirs. You get a number of blocks and you have to clear the screen 
 with just picking what way they drop. You dont move them.
  
  Mission mode is like standerd but you get little "missions" to do, like clear 2 lines with the 
 2 by 2 . Stuff like that. Has a time trail as well. 
  
  Catch. Now this is a hate it or love it game. You have a little block that you can turn around 
 and catch other blocks as they fall. WHen you get a 4 by 4 they will blow up in 10 seconds. You 
 can get more points buy adding more and more blocks that line up to blow up as well. If the whole 
 thing gets to big its game over. You also have a life bar that goes down if blocks get past you 
 or you hit a block as you are turning.
  
  Game has a so so wifi system. You only have 3 ways to play. 2 player no items, 4 player with items 
 and push no items. Thats it. It can still be really fun. But it could have been SO much more.
 
  
  If you have a bunch of friends with a ds you can all play tetris with download and play. Works 
 great and it is fun when you can slap the person that just send 4 lines your way.
  
  Even with the few down falls this game has, my opening still stands if you like puzzle games get 
 this one. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Holtke4987
Rating: 9.9
Date: Apr 27, 2006 5:12 am PT
Review:  I LOVE THIS GAME. I used to play this game all of the time for regular gameboy and then I picked 
 up a copy for my N64. I recently bought a DS and picked up Brain Age which is an awesome game, 
 but you can only do so much training in a day so I went ahead and picked up another game and that 
 game just so happened to be TETRIS DS. I friggin love this game, I really like how when you are 
 playing on the bottom screen Mario is going through the levels on the top of the screen. I think 
 that this game is good playing by yourself but playing with friends is 10x better than playing 
 by yourself. I recently went to a buddy of mines house and we all played Tetris and I think that 
 this game was the clincher for me and made me want the DS even more! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bayroot88
Rating: 8.5
Date: Apr 26, 2006 7:45 pm PT
Review:  Tetris DS Is A Good Puzzle Game On The Nintendo Dual Screen System I Mean Relly. A great idea putting 
 old school nintendo game like super mario bros 1 & 3, donkey kong, ballon fighter, the legend of zelda, metroid, 
 and yoshi cookie. Yet me take of all the mode is this game classic mode is just the same any other 
 tetris game catch mode is catching all the blocks you find in the game the yoshi cookie one is 
 very hard yeah sure is easy but once you complate these they become harder every time the donkey 
 kong one is you must filled your mess on the compurter side the most who filled everyone side wins 
 and the last is line up mode there you most fill yhe most and oh there no time limit. However the 
 prestation in tetris ds is great its a pick up in play game.
  
  Review Score 8.5 
::::::

::::::
UserName: big___toof
Rating: 8.6
Date: Apr 26, 2006 3:29 pm PT
Review:  Tetris DS offers a fine assortment of all the old tetris we know and love, with some new school 
 game types, and flash.
  The game is quite solid in terms of gameplay, anyone, new or old to Tetris, can pick the title 
 up and have fun.
  It has a wide variety of different modes, including classic, push, puzzle, touch, challenge, and 
 catch.
  Classic mode, just as the name implys, offers a old school feeling of gameplay. With the dual screen 
 technology, Nintendo has used the bottom screen to show the actual gameplay, while the top screen 
 displays Mario runing around in his 8-bit world of Super Mario Brothers.
  Push mode is a mode that we have not seen in any Tetris game before. The top screen, you, is competeing 
 with the bottom screen, the CPU, for total domination. The object of this mode, is that everytime 
 you delete a line, the play field gets closer and closer to the opposing players side of the screen. 
 It is a quite fun, and challenging mode, that is certainly a great contribution to the fun title.
 
  Next we have puzzle. In Puzzle mode, you are givin a screen containing a certain number of blocks 
 on it, and a pallete of pieces you can choose to drop. The object of the mode is to clear the screen 
 of all blocks, at the same time using all the blocks you are givin.
  Touch mode is probably the most unique addition to the game. In this mode, your goal is to eliminate 
 all the blocks on screen, to reach a cage at the top of the tower of blocks. While the first level 
 or two of the mode are easy, it gets increasingly hard, and you are taken away the ability to rotate 
 blocks, decreasing the amount of moves you have, and increasing the strategy needed to advance. 
 
  Challenge is another cool mode. You are given a mission (for example, using a 2x2 block to clear 
 two lines) and a time limit, and must complete the mission before the time runs out. While, all 
 at the same time, you must avoid stacking blocks to high, or it will be game over.
  The final mode in Tetris DS is called Catch. In this mode, you are given a single block, and must 
 navigate it through levels and catch other falling pieces, all the while avoiding Metroids.
  Having a Nintendo DS Wi-Fi connection also opens up a whole new door for players, and you can finally 
 to not only friends, but foes alike, that you can beat them anywhere, anytime.
  The graphics are nice and sharp. The use of bright colors really accents the finer points in the 
 game, and the use of all the old graphics from games, such as Zelda and Balloon Fighter, are very 
 nicely integrated into the game. While there could have been a little more flash in the selection 
 screen and some of the smaller points in the game, the over all graphics were nicely done.
  The sound mainly consists of tracks from the older games, but sounds very nice none the less. I 
 really liked the sound effects and such when getting big combos, and when you are on the verge 
 of losing.
  All in all, the game is very well done, and really got me interested in Tetris. For fans, or just 
 someone out looking for a good title on the DS, look no further than Tetris DS. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Naruto-freak
Rating: 8.6
Date: Apr 26, 2006 12:32 pm PT
Review:  to put it simply; this is a tetris game, you will either love it or despise it. 
  This tetris is like normal tetris game; guide falling blocks onto the ground to fit together and 
 when a line is cleared you get points. But there is more then just that. Tetris ds has a total 
 of 6 different modes, including: regular, puzzle, push, mission, catch and touch mode. These different 
 modes are all very different and some are challenging.
  Puzzle mode gives you different puzzles to solve (like make all the bricks dissappear all at once) 
 but it soon gets very hard. In total there are 200 puzzle challenges
  touch is similiar to puzzle as there are puzzles to solve, but you need to pick out pieces instead 
 of moving them. There is also tower, wher you have to make lines from pieces that stacked and get 
 a cage of balloons to the ground.
  mission is where there are falling blocks and you have to clear lines in certain ways (clear 2 
 lines with this block) . 
  Push mode puts you against a comp and you have to clear lines to force the comp down towards the 
 flames, but if the comp clears more lines, you get pushed up to spikes.
  In catch mode, instead of moving the blocks you move the base to clear lines, but instead of lines, 
 you need to get a 4x4 square. the larger you make the square the more blocks you clear.
  Standard is just normal tetris which is the mode you will be playiong the most. 
  This DS game 
 is also wifi compatible and can play against either 4 players or just 1. Or you can play 2 player 
 push. 
  This game is all about nostalgia. Every different mode has different characters from nes classics 
 such as samus link and mario. the music is also from the original games.
  What I didnt like was how you can still spin the blocks even after they land. It allows you to 
 get to insane levels (45) that you would be able to get close to in the old tetris. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: KingKRool01
Rating: 7.2
Date: Apr 25, 2006 6:25 pm PT
Review:  Tetris DS has proven itself to be probably one the greatest Tetris reincarnations ever created, 
 with brand new game modes such as touch mode, push mode, and mission mode. Unfortunately, it didnt 
 include all of the great modes from THQs Tetris Worlds, but it did give respect to a handful of 
 8-bit NES games, which Nintendo fans will enjoy plenty. Tetris is one of the most addicting games 
 to ever be created, and I guarantee, you will feel as though you have rediscovered the game all 
 over again once you play Tetris DS.
  
  The feel and presentation of Tetris DS well appeal to old school Nintendo fans. When I first played 
 the original Tetris mode, I felt amazed. The entire interface is filled with old school game sprites, 
 old sound effects, and old backgrounds. The moment you start the game up, the old school Mario 
 jump sound effect comes up. The top screen shows the logo of Tetris DS and a handful of old school 
 Nintendo characters such as Link, Donkey Kong, and Yoshi, while the bottom is the menu to choose 
 what game type you want to play. During the original marathon mode, you will hear the classic NES 
 Mario theme, as well as have a classic Mario background in the back of your Tetris pieces on the 
 bottom screen, and you will also notice that the top screen has a Mario sprite running through 
 a level. For every Tetris line you acquire, Mario goes farther into the level he is in. I really 
 thought this was just too cool.
  
  Of course, since Mario is the top dog of Nintendo, you will see Mario run through various levels 
 for 100 lines. After beating Bowser with line 100, the game then changes its look to other classic 
 NES games. After Marios theme, you get 10 lines of Zelda, 10 lines of Excitebike, 10 lines of 
 Ice Climbers, 10 lines of Balloon Pop, and many other classic games, all for, of course, 10 lines. 
 The final 10 lines actually have the original Tetris theme and music, instead of using old NES 
 game music. I thought it was pretty weak that you couldnt play a Tetris theme all the way through.
 
  
  Tetris DS features 6 game modes in total. There is standard mode, mission mode, push mode, touch 
 mode, puzzle mode, and catch mode. 
  
  Standard mode is your regular Tetris game. Tetris DS took a page from Tetris Worlds and ended up 
 using the Hold box in this game, meaning you can use the R or L buttons to save a piece you 
 want to use for later on. Although this is your standard Tetris game, as stated before, the only 
 Tetris theme music you will hear will be on the last lines you achieve. You will play up to 200 
 lines, and then youll have completed Tetris DS. There are more specific modes in standard mode, 
 where you can play a marathon, go against a CPU, or line clear, which has you choosing how high 
 you want your Tetris pieces to be when you start out.
  
  Mission mode has you doing certain objects, such as clearing a line using a blue L shaped block, 
 or clearing 4 lines at once. The theme for mission mode is meant to look like the classic NES Zelda. 
 The heart containers on the bottom right hand corner of the screen serves as a timer for mission 
 mode, while the top of the screen tells you what to do. For every mission you complete, the missions 
 get more difficult. You can also play the time trail for mission mode on 5 different levels, to 
 see how fast you can complete all of the tasks.
  
  Push mode is a battle to see which player can push each other off the screen. You play on the top 
 screen while your opponent plays on the bottom screen. For every 2 lines you get, you push your 
 opponent one line down, and vice versa for you. Whoever can push their opponent off the screen 
 wins. I found this mode to be challenging as well as very time consuming, but it was still fun, 
 nonetheless. The theme of push mode is the original Donkey Kong game.
  
  Touch mode is the only mode that uses the touch screen for gameplay. There are a stack of Tetris 
 pieces that you must clear to get to your goal. By clearing the Tetris pieces, you slide them to 
 fall down, or tap them to flip/switch them into their holes. Once the cage full of balloons that 
 lay on top of the pieces hit the ground, you win the game. This mode isnt that exciting. Too bad 
 its the only mode in the game that requires you to use the touch screen.
  
  Puzzle mode takes the theme of Yoshis Cookie. You have some selections on the bottom screen for 
 you to choose from. The object of this mode is to clear all of the lines using only the pieces 
 you have on the bottom screen.
  
  The final mode, catch mode, involves you catching falling Tetris pieces with your 4 sided base 
 figure. You must catch every falling piece with your 4 sided base, and form a perfect 4x4 figure. 
 Once the 4x4 figure is formed, it explodes and blows up most of the pieces you have captured with 
 your core figure. If you miss any pieces, and you allow them to hit the bottom of the bottom screen, 
 you will lose some health. If a falling Metroid (This stage has a Metroid theme) hits your core, 
 or any pieces on it, you will also lose health. The game is over once you lose all of your health, 
 or if the figure becomes so huge, it can no longer fit on your screen. You can press and hold the 
 L and R buttons to make the Tetris pieces fall down faster. 
  
  Now, most of the game modes are fun and addicting, but I really didnt enjoy not being able to 
 cascade my leftover Tetris pieces, just as in Tetris Worlds. I also found that although the Nintendo 
 themes were pretty cool, they didnt help the game that much. I mean, this is Tetris, after all. 
 This is a game that many generations have played over and over again, and nothing new is really 
 brought to the table. Basically, at the end of the day, its just Tetris.
  
  Tetris DS is a great reincarnation of a classic puzzle game. Theres multiplayer, a great interface, 
 tons of modes and great old school audio, but the game lacks the kind of addiction it used to give 
 us all. This is a Tetris game most DS owners will have fun with, but overall, its just Tetris 
 mixed in with Nintendo 8-bit all-stars.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: BobbyBobby85
Rating: 7.2
Date: Apr 28, 2006 8:55 pm PT
Review:  Nintendo's long term success in the portable business could largely be attributed to the Tetris 
 franchise. There is no question about it. Basically, Tetris single handedly made "Gameboy" a household 
 name, with its amazingly simplistic and surprisingly addictive gameplay formula. Likewise, Tetris 
 saw outstanding success on home consoles as well, most notably the NES. Sadly, when it comes to 
 the greatness of this franchise, I don't think it could ever get as good as it was back then. And 
 when it comes to Tetris DS, I think Nintendo may be trying a bit too hard to bank on their dominance 
 in the 8-bit era.
  
  For the sake of argument, let's just say Tetris on the NES is the de facto Tetris experience that 
 is yet to be outdone. I like to think of it as "The original" even though we all know it existed 
 even before the NES. I think it's safe to say that 8-bit Tetris is the game most people can relate 
 to if asked about their history with the game. 
  
  I think the biggest similarity this game has with its ancestors is in its basic Tetris mode, which 
 I'm sure we've all played in one form or another. However, even this mode has been altered in a 
 way which puts the skill-based formula of yesteryear in leagues with the more forgettable outings 
 in the series. Gone is the statistics chart used to determine if the game was cheating you out 
 of equal numbers of varying blocks. Instead, you are given a long list of upcoming pieces, which 
 some would argue is better than knowing just your next piece, but I disagree. Another change is 
 in the "ghost" block, used in conjunction with the "instant-lay" to speedily place blocks to your 
 liking without much skill at all. If that wasn't bad enough, Nintendo also included the "infinite 
 spin", a cheap move which keeps a piece in rotation as long as the player wants until he or she 
 has found a favorable resting place for it. I just hope I am not alone in saying this is the most 
 blasphemous addition ever conceived for the franchise, and that I am sickened Nintendo thought 
 it was fitting for this game.
  
  These alterations take away much of the old-fashioned challenge most hardcore fans loved about 
 the originals. Sure gaming has grown more fast-paced over the years, but I would've liked to see 
 these mechanics as options, not standard. "They ARE optional" you say? Well, sure they are, but 
 you can only turn off the hard drop and ghost piece, and I wouldn't consider them "optional" if 
 everyone on the Nintendo Wi-Fi connection uses them, and you can't really compete without being 
 forced to comply with these standards. The only thing I will give any slack to is the "Hold" feature, 
 which allows you to exchange a piece for one that may or may not be a better fit for your puzzle. 
 I only welcome this feature because it has saved my neck in the past, and we all know how frustrating 
 it can be to spend your time fixing holes that don't need to be there. Even so, this too should 
 be optional, if only for us hardcore fanatics who don't mind reminiscing about how hard Tetris 
 used to be back in the day. 
  
  The game as a whole is retrofitted with many classic NES themes and sprites, but that is also the 
 problem that holds this game back. I love 8-bit nostalgia as much as the next guy, but don't you 
 think a flagship Tetris game on a completely new platform should be all new and separated from 
 the crowd? Where this classic theme begins to fail is in the overuse of classic music and nifty 
 but useless game footage on the top screen. Frankly, I would be much happier with a simplistic, 
 BASIC look and feel. No Mario, No Zelda, and no remixes of cheesy music I've heard thousands of 
 times before. It all would've been fine and dandy if Nintendo had only allowed the player to customize 
 his virtual play environment, and perhaps added the 8-bit themes as unlockables, but this isn't 
 the case. Heck, even the 1987 NES original allowed you to at least pick your BGM. You won't find 
 any heretical Russian music or good ol' fashioned Tetris genealogy with this game. Getting a Tetris 
 doesn't even feel as powerful as it used to, since Nintendo opted for a spinning Mario sprite instead 
 of a triumphant, screen shaking flash and boisterous fanfare to accompany the feeling of accomplishment 
 you get when performing the legendary move. This game would've greatly benefited from a complete 
 overhaul with all new music, graphics, and presentation. Tetris fans should feel insulted that 
 Nintendo didn't go the extra mile in making the entire package new and unique.
  
  Where Nintendo does try to innovate with this new iteration of the classic, is in the fresh takes 
 of the tetris formula you won't find anywhere else. Namely, the "Catch" mode and the DS friendly 
 "touch" mode, which both have you moving the colorful blocks in ways you would never think of. 
 Catch mode is a Metroid themed game that will have you maneuvering entire chunks of Tetris blocks 
 to meet the falling inertia of single pieces. The "catch" here is that instead of handling the 
 piece itself, you are given rotational control over the chunk of blocks, meaning its a bit tougher 
 to adjust to the contours of pieces that are falling all around you. Touch mode on the other hand, 
 makes clever use of the DS touch screen, allowing you to push tall stacks of blocks into the ground 
 below to clear lines with the use of gravity. Both of these modes are very intuitive and can be 
 even more fun on higher difficulty settings. 
  
  Sadly, I didn't find much enjoyment in the other modes, which are all mostly rehashed versions 
 of the basic formula with a few strings attached. Mission mode is hardly entertaining, giving players 
 line conditions that can be really easy or super confusing to conquer. Puzzle mode is promising, 
 but you aren't given any control at all over the pieces, and instead must pick from a selection 
 of pieces in their proper sequence that will clear the screen of lines. Last but not least is Push 
 mode, which is more or less Tug-of-War Tetris with a Donkey Kong theme. Maybe it's just me, but 
 I somehow feel like there wasn't enough to these modes, or that they just weren't distinctive enough 
 to keep me satisfied in the long run. Perhaps Nintendo should've spent more development time adding 
 to these other modes to equal them out amongst their slightly more innovative brethren.
  
  When it comes down to the meat and potatoes with this game, I say it's not worth the money. Sure 
 it's Tetris, but the made-for-n00bs formula is a big turn off to me as is the overused NES theme. 
 If this game were only $20, I would change my tune, but that is only because Catch and Touch modes 
 are the only real unique things about this venture. Online competition is fun for a little while, 
 but even then your tolerance for it grows thin within a few short weeks. Other than that, I can't 
 help but feel like this game had very little effort put into it, since it is basically Tetris with 
 the Nintendo touch. Whether or not that touch was a good thing, is up to you to decide. 
  
  Let's just hope Nintendo comes to its senses and makes a version of Tetris Attack online. It just 
 might be enough to make me forgive them for this half-hearted attempt at making a Tetris game...
 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: RadBunny
Rating: 8.6
Date: Apr 23, 2006 7:12 pm PT
Review:  Puzzle games were not really my type of games intill I put this game in my DS slot! This game has 
 lots of modes that are highly addictive!
  
  Puzzle: Puzzle mode is a mode that you fit in the blocks too complete the puzzle! It has 200 puzzles 
 all being different in difficulty!
  
  Touch: All you do is simple read the title of the mode! Your objective is too touch the pieces with 
 the stylus and move the blocks around too make them disapere! This mode also has a joint puzzle 
 mode...
  
  Standard: Normal tetris is what this is about! There is marathon that you clear lignes and gain 
 points that alow you too gain lvls the higher the lvl the faster the blocks fall! There time mode 
 where you must do the same thing but in a certain amount of time! Then theres ligne clear that is 
 simple... Just clear lignes...
  
  Mission: Just complete missions what the CPU tells you too do has marathon and time mode...
  
 
  Push: Its simple clear lignes and push you oponents lignes down intill it hits the very top or 
 bottom!
  
  Sounds: All it the music is snes and ness mario/samus/link and more themes
  
  Pros:
  Keeps you busy for hours
  Wifi
  Highscores
  
  Cons:
  Can get boring after awhile
 
  Once you've finished the puzzles and reached the highest lvls you can get too its over... (kind 
 of)
  
  I recommened this game too hardcore tetris and puzzle game fans and gamers that have never played 
 a puzzle game its a great game too learn with! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: snicky00
Rating: 9.6
Date: Apr 23, 2006 12:55 pm PT
Review:  this is the best tetris game that i have ever played. it has the standard teteris with all the tweaks 
 added in over the years like ghost piece. there are also a ton of other playable modes like catch 
 and touch. all of these things have a retro nintendo theme surrounding them lioke ballonman, the 
 legend of zelda, ect. the graphics are the greatest 2d handheld graphics i have ever scene. there 
 is also a multiplayer mode for ten using multi pack or single pack. the coolest aspeck of the game 
 is playing against people online using NWFC. it is really fun when u go against ten people online 
 and then u win. if u get tired of standard tetris. then u can play the other modes for extra content. this 
 adds alot of palyabillity to the game. this is the best tetris game ever. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: acertainromance
Rating: 8.9
Date: Apr 23, 2006 8:09 am PT
Review:  Tetris DS has brilliant Multiplayer and the options available make it essential!
  The old-school feel and themes and sounds are great and most of the 6 options are addictive (apart 
 from the horrible 'Push') . The Wifi is excellent but I think Nintendo should have made a few more 
 options available. 
  Standard: basically a normal game of Tetris. Aim to get over 200 lines, once you do this you unlock 
 endless, still the best of the options
  Push: Play against the computer and try to push Tetris blocks to their side and knock them off. 
 Tends to be confusing and awkward. Horrible, worst option.
  Catch: A fun enough 'Metroid' themed option where you have to catch as many block as you can and 
 get them into a square and get a high score and not make it go over the border. Quite good
  Puzzle: A selection of 200 puzzles for you to do, great for when you're bored and a nice challenge. 
 Very good option
  Touch: Two options of puzzle and tower each increasing in difficulty. Tower is the easier but more 
 addictive of the two. Puzzle is OK but not as good as the normal ones.
  Mission: a 'Zelda' themed option. Do what the box on the top screen says without dying and get 
 the highest score as you can. Addictive and challenging, good fun.
  Overall a superb game. 9/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Superbomber64
Rating: 8.8
Date: Apr 22, 2006 3:49 pm PT
Review:  Tetris, hands-down one of the most influential games ever. This game was so big when it came out, 
 the leader of the USSR almost had to get involved because of copyright issues. It was addictive 
 and great fun, while offering a very innovative style of gameplay. Now, it is over 15 years since 
 that event occured. Now, it is 2006 and Tetris is back on the DS.
  
  Let's get this one thing staight first, combining Tetris with every other great Nintendo franchise 
 is great fun. I always enjoy seeing retro Link while I match up falling blocks. The sound and music 
 of the game is always so joyous and nostalgic to hear.
  
  The gameplay, well, it's mostly the same since its debut many years ago. There are six modes you 
 can play, and they all have their share of uniqueness. It is just some of the time not overwhelming, 
 which is Tetris DS flaw. The central Tetris gameplay also remains the same. The same blocks, rotating, 
 and holding that has been there for a while.
  
  Now obviously the main focus is on multiplayer. It is outstanding that the game allows up to ten 
 people to play with one game card. This makes a very flexible match, since there are many people. 
 The other main aspect of multiplayer is its Wi-Fi. Yea, it is great fun to play Tetris online, 
 but I think Nintendo could of done a little better. The rating system is somewhat deressing, especially 
 if your not a god player, seeing your rating slowly dropping. They could of at least had a Win-Loss 
 record scheme. But all in all, it is still well-deserved time playin W-Fi.
  
  All in all, Tetris is a fun time. With colorful grpahics, and intriguing sounds, Tetris DS brings 
 back the great memories of the old Nintendo days. This game isn't top-notch, but it is still just 
 as addictive since it has come out.
  
  Score: 8/10
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: UndulationInc
Rating: 9.6
Date: Apr 23, 2006 11:06 am PT
Review:  Tetris, the classic game in where you drop a few colored shapes onto other colored shapes to clear 
 a line. Can't you just feel the nostalgia coming back! No? Than how about if I play some old Russian 
 songs to tide you over... no? You want something new! You want to play Tetris like you've never 
 played it before! Than grab your DS and plug in TETRIS DS and enjoy a bountiful amount of games 
 and trials that only Tetris could supply!
  
  GAMPLAY ~
  There is 6 different styles you can play your Tetris on the double screen.
  Standard: in where 
 you play the classic tetris for 200 levels whilst the top screne jumps between a variety of different 
 GIF like images of SMB1 and SMB3 and finally a showdown with King Koopa! There are 2 different 
 games, Marathon listed above and line clear in where you clear the given area shown.
  Catch: in where you play as a "core" piece and catch several falling Tetris shapes to create a 
 block which in turn makes the core explode. Watch out for falling Metroids (in their respected 
 glass jars) This game is played with still images of Metroid in the background.
  Mission: You are given an assignment and you must complete the objective before your hearts run 
 out! This one has still images of Zelda 1 in the background. There is also a time trail mode in 
 where you complete missions as fast as possible.
  Puzzle: There are over 200 different puzzle combinations you can complete and move on. Yoshi cookie 
 images are prominent in the background.
  Touch: You move blocks around with the stylus to form solid lines in which bring down a tower and 
 release the caged balloons! Balloon Fight is playing in the background. There is also a touch puzzle 
 mode in where you play the same game as above, but you can't rotate any of the blocks!
  Push: You go against an opponent in the ultimate game of tug-of-war! In where you either get pushed 
 back or you push your foe as far back as he can go using disintegrating lines as you ultimate modivation! 
 The original Donkey Kong title is played in the back.
  Ok, now that the games are listed, lets just say one thing, if you plan on playing this with a 
 friend, because several games are 2 player, lets hope your "friends" shelled out the 150$ for a 
 DS and 35$ for this game! If not, just play alone! It's a great time waster and many of the games 
 are easily one player! Besides that, there is enough to keep you busy for a long time! 
  
  STORY ~
  ... empty...
  
  GRAPHICS ~
  The overall graphics were nice, but most of the time 
 it was all still images of the classic NES titles. So there wasn't much confusion onto where to 
 look at your screen. This was in it's own respect a good thing, because it gave those with ADD 
 (99% of american youth) a bit less to focus on. The graphics (mentioned above) give back alot to 
 the nostalgic of classic gaming, the puzzles look good, the touch screen is used in many of the 
 games and the top screen is useful for what it should be used for... hardly nothing! Thank goodness 
 a DS games gets this right for once!
  
  SOUND ~
  It's a bunch of different classic tunes playing in their respected games modes. Some songs change 
 up when you complete certain objectives and what have you. Like in "Touch" when you complete a 
 bunch of lines in a row you get the great basic theme with a Jamaican steel drum twist! It gives 
 the games more feeling of the classic it represents and the new style embraced by the collective 
 fans! 
  
  REPLAYABILITY ~
  Do I really need to write this part? This game will keep you occupied for the longest time. You 
 can pick it up play it, put it down. There are also some extra goodies for those that get good! 
 So keep playing and the extras will pay off!
  
  OVERALL ~
  This is a must have for the DS owner, because if you bought the DS you know that it's the system 
 for puzzle titles, so why not pick up the top puzzle game around! 
  
  TETRIS LIVES AGAIN! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cartmanstein
Rating: 8.2
Date: Apr 22, 2006 12:58 pm PT
Review:  When you take a game that has been on almost every video game system of the last 20 years, you've 
 got a clear winner when you add some smart new modes that manage to put a fresh spin on the game. 
 In classic mode, you get to watch Mario progress through different NES levels when you complete 
 a line. This game has Wi-Fi and wireless multiplayer, which adds up for some great multiplayer 
 on the DS. The different modes offers an enjoyable twist on a familiar experience. Aside from the 
 rather annoying difficulties I had on touch mode, it is a wonderful game top to bottom. I think 
 that lapsed Tetris fans who moved on to other puzzle games will migrate back to Tetris after they 
 play this excellent reinvention of a historic, yet fun, video game title. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ThePatinator
Rating: 8.4
Date: Apr 22, 2006 3:53 am PT
Review:  Tetris DS is very possibly the most madly addictive game on the DS. This is nothing new for the 
 series, but It gives a game with very limited game modes a crazy amount of value.
  
  Unfortunately, most of the original game modes are a frustating, boring letdown. Catch, although 
 a nice little mini-game, it relatively boring after a couple of plays, Touch, although sort of 
 interesting, is very limited, and suffers from extremely poor controls and Puzzle is basically 
 impossible to not win after a few tries, and increadibly boring to boot. However Mission, Push 
 and, of course, Standard, are all fantastic game modes, and use the old tetris formula to great 
 effect.
  
  The graphics are about as good as they need to be, but aren't that flash. The music is clearly 
 aiming to be as full of nostalgia as it can be, and feature classic tracks from the various NES 
 games that appear in the game, but is apparently annoing to any non-nintendo fans out there.
  
  The single area that Tetris DS really shines though, is multiplayer. With support for a massive 
 ten players (I've only mustered 5 though) and the same addictive gameplay found in the singleplayer 
 mode (with the addition of some interesting items) it's truly multiplayer mayhem.
  
  Even if this review hasn't been entirely positive, I STRONGLY urge you to go and buy this game. 
 If you're anything like me, you wont stop having fun for some time. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: super-lukaz
Rating: 9.4
Date: Apr 22, 2006 1:20 am PT
Review:  This has got to be the best tetris remake, its even better than the first tetris, definetly! With 
 the Nintendo magic on the standard mode, it makes it look that theres more going on.
  Touch mode is probably my favorite new mode plainly because its simple idea and it makes great 
 gameplay. Push mode is one of my favorites it makes you feel good when you win. Puzzle mode is 
 probably next because everytime I play that mode I complete another level. Catch mode is good, 
 but it isnt as addicting, but its pretty fun. mission mode is the one ive least played, I dont 
 know why, maybe because I'm more into the other modes.
  I doubt that this game could get better, its on a handheld, (tetris was always meant to be on a 
 handheld!) the modes make it much more fun, and this game had to be made, to make up for tetris 
 worlds on GBA, never played it but it seemed bad from reviews ive read. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: s3ank1ms
Rating: 9.2
Date: Apr 21, 2006 8:44 pm PT
Review:  Tetris DS is one of th ebest tetris games out there first of all it has new modes like puzzle catch 
 and touch. this whole package is worth more then ur moneys worth itll keep you entertained for 
 hours and hours. the new nintendo theme will give you that classic 8-bit feel that you used to 
 have playing the NES, GameBoy, or Gameboy color. But the 8-bit nintendo theme can get quite distracting 
 when your playing up to level 10
  
  the graphics in the game are good classic 2-D puzzle game styled graphics
  
  the sound is almost 
 exccelent but it would be nice if they had included the original music for some of the games that 
 they had in these videos while playing.
  
  overall this package is well worth your money and should be owned by every nintendo fan and DS 
 owner. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DRSLIPKNOT666
Rating: 9.7
Date: Apr 20, 2006 9:04 pm PT
Review:  OK OK OK so i figured that maybe the game was good back when i was 8 yrs old. But then it hit its 
 was a ton of bricks the when the last line ended. Its worth it every penny so lets but our thinking 
 caps on and pick this one up! Oh ok so it told me that i have to write atleast one hundred words 
 so here we go..... the game is great one of the best o ft he three avaliable games that have the 
 wi-fi (by al means is great acces to super fun multiplayer!!! its great so get one and have fun!!!!!!!!!!
 
  
  ur buddy jay!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: P1unge
Rating: 8.7
Date: Apr 20, 2006 10:31 am PT
Review:  Tetris DS is one of those games that is a must have for the DS, especially if you have Wi-Fi access. 
 There isn't a whole lot of lasting appeal to some of the extra modes like catch and mission, but 
 marathon, the puzzle modes and multiplayer play makes it worthwhile. There are hundreds of puzzles 
 to solve in puzzle and touch puzzle mode. I have gotten so addicted in just the week I've been 
 playing, that when I close my eyes I start seeing falling blocks! If you liked the old tetris games, 
 then this is for you. If your bored with your DS, and need something simple to play yet fun, I 
 would definitely recommend this game. The only thing I could ask for is more multi player modes 
 on Wi-Fi, they only give you 2 player standard with no items, 4 player standard with items and 
 push mode. It is still a lot of fun though, and I have yet to try local wireless multiplayer, but 
 I'm sure that it's a lot of fun. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ra7krz
Rating: 9.8
Date: Apr 20, 2006 7:17 am PT
Review:  There have many a sequel to come out for mostly all the A+ games, which have not been so great. 
 Tetris ds on the other hand takes and old school game and makes it addicting again. Standard mode 
 is in there, vs. the ai, and line clearing, which can make you look like a tetris champ on norm 
 setting, but when going against the highest difficulty it will make you look like a fool. The ds 
 also introduces you to many new and actually extremely fun features. The modes are touch in which 
 you use the stylus to move the tetris pieces, which starts you off moving the pieces from the bottom 
 while showered with new pieces. Eventually it wont let you rotate the pieces which is harder to 
 solve than it sounds, then there is push a mode in which you go head to head with the ai trying 
 to push each other to the limit, which is easier said than done. In Puzzle mode all you have to 
 do is solve premade lines by applying three pieces given to you. Mission mode is great new add 
 on too, it lets you complete tasks given to you by the ds, with limited time which is represented 
 by zelda hearts, fail to do one task and the ds will punish you by adding blocks to the bottom of 
 you pile. The game wouldve been perfect if you would have been able to customize an avatar or minor 
 game settings, which the majority of people wont mind. So if you want a little old school with 
 some new content in the mix, this ones for you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kantaroth
Rating: 9.4
Date: Apr 18, 2006 2:38 pm PT
Review:  I remember when Tetris 1st came out on the Nintendo Gameboy, it was an instant hit. Nintendo has 
 improved on perfection w/ the Tetris DS.
  
  The single player modes are great, the classic Tetris we all remember is there but w/ the added 
 coolness of having the Mario music in the background and the Super Mario Bros video on the top 
 screen. The other modes like push and adventure are great additions.
  
  On top of all that is the multiplayer options making it an even better game to play versing your 
 friends. 
  
  I love this game b/c you can pick it up and play a game or two and come back and try again. So 
 it's perfect for those times when you're waiting in line and need something to do. 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: MarioDS01
Rating: 9.5
Date: Apr 17, 2006 7:41 am PT
Review:  This game was pretty much is worth buying and playing with others. The multiplayer is pretty fun 
 to play. This game is really good for old school/classic gamers and even new ones alike. 
  
  The graphics are pretty decent in the game. The bocks look really good and smooth in the game. 
 I kind of liked seeing the graphics of the classic NES games. There is nothing wrong with the graphics 
 not ground-breaking, but still good.
  
  The sound is pretty good. The only negative is that the music loops and gets a little repetative (Hint: 
 That is why there is volume control) . But it is still enjoyable to hear the classic music of NES 
 games.
  
  The gameplay is pretty addicting and fun. My favorite mode I play is Catch mode. It is the most 
 interesting that you rotate the core with Tetris blocks and create a bomb that detonotes in 10 
 seconds or by pressing the X Button. Puzzle mode makes you think how to place the pieces. I hate 
 Touch mode, it is so difficult to play, even more than Mission mode. Classic mode starts fairly 
 easy but gets pretty fast. I am still trying to beat marathon mode to unlock more Tetris music. 
 Push mode can be difficuit at first, but after a while, you can beat it. I love doing Classic Tetris 
 in Multiplayer mode, I like using the items to screw up other players. Mission mode in Multiplayer 
 is crazy to beat each objective quickly to each points. Push mode is not too hard to me beating 
 other players.
  
  The value is that it is worth buying it to play againest other friends or players in Wi-Fi. Puzzle 
 mode would keep players busy with 200 puzzles. And the Mission mode would really put a test on 
 expert Tetris players 
::::::

::::::
UserName: stillplaygbc
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 17, 2006 7:00 am PT
Review:  I was a bit shaky to buy this game at first because of its reviews but it turns out to be an amazing 
 pick of a game. I love Touch and catch mode, especially with Samus, Link, Mario, DK, Peach and 
 Yoshi, this game turns out to be amazing. If you were to buy a DS today and could get only one 
 game this would definitely be the one to get! It has so many gameplay options and it seems endless! 
 It is really and enjoyable experience! This game makes other puzzlers inferior! Buy this game today! 
 I promise you, you wont regret it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: AdventCloud46
Rating: 8.4
Date: Apr 16, 2006 10:24 pm PT
Review:  Since Tetris was released on the orignal gameboy there have been numerous reincarnations, including 
 tetris worlds, tetris sphere, etc..., and for good reason too. Tetris is one of the best, if not 
 the best, puzzle game to date and Tetris DS is as good as Tetris gets. 
  
  Visually, Tetris has never been anything to marvel at and this still applies. This time around 
 it is a tad more colorful than any other version I've played. Thats about it.
  
  The sound isn't going to blow you away either. Tunes from NES classics are a nice change but the 
 game does not allow you to change the songs. So, playing standard I have to listen to the Mario 
 theme and that can get old after half a hour. (Note: There may be a way to change the song and 
 I just don't know. I really don't think there is though)
  
  The excellent gameplay is what completes this package. In Tetris DS there is the regular standard 
 mode plus 5 additional modes. In the standard mode, there are a few changes. Most importantly you 
 can now store a piece. For example if you the long blue bar early, you can store it for later by 
 just pressing either shoulder button. This adds a lot of depth and strategy to the game. Also you 
 can see the next 5 pieces your going to get, which is awesome. The additional modes are Touch, 
 Push, Puzzle, Mission, and Catch. Touch allows you to touch the pieces using your stylus and move 
 them around to dwindle a tower of pieces till you get to the bottom. In Push your pieces are on 
 the top screen and your opponents (CPU or WiFi) are on the bottom and you try and make line in 
 the center using your opponents pieces as well as yours. Clearing two lines pushes your opponent 
 down the grid and you win after getting him to the bottom. Puzzle is just 200 set puzzles you solve 
 with tetris pieces, somewhat challenging. In mission mode they will ask you to complete certain 
 tasks. For example clear 2 lines with a certain piece, etc. Catch mode I don't even understand. 
 Haha, sorry.
  
  The best part of all this is you get to play Standard and Push modes online or against a CPU. The 
 CPU is ridiculous. I have barely beaten a lvl 4 out of 5 one time. Online play is incrediblely 
 fun. Part of this is because tetris is an easy game to pick up and learn so everyone knows what 
 is going on. In the standard mode when you play against someone, clearing lines will move some 
 of the line on to your opponents grid. So if you clear 2 tetris' that puts 8 lines of blocks onto 
 opponents grid and his stack will shoot up. 
  This can makes things extremely hectic and tense. This in turn makes the game highly competive 
 a lot of fun
  
  In retrospect, Tetris DS is a great puzzle game that anyone should pick up and I highly recommend 
 it to those wish to play it online.
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Juno54
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 16, 2006 7:10 pm PT
Review:  Tetris is probably one of the oldest puzzle games of all time and now it has returned to the DS 
 along with its addicting gameplay. The game has standard Tetris mode and it also has a bunch of 
 other game modes as well. The best part of this game (and in any wi-fi enabled DS game) is the 
 online multiplayer gameplay. Tetris will always be around for generations and generations. It is 
 a simple, fun, and very addicting puzzle game. Simply put, this game is an old school game remade 
 with lots of extra features. Tetris DS is a must have for puzzle fans. Its very simple to play 
 and it constantly makes you want to play again and again. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Phil709
Rating: 9.4
Date: Apr 16, 2006 6:22 pm PT
Review:  Tetris was addicting then and this game proves tha it still is now. It is the best puzzle game 
 out there and I doubt it will get beaten. It is back with colour, new music, and plenty of different 
 game modes that you will play and play for hours until you beat them. Even after you beath them 
 you will try to beat your old records.
  First of all, this game is like drugs. It is hard to let go. you will be staring at your screen 
 for hours on end trying to beat the slow, then fast, then slightly faster game. You will play this 
 and won't regret buying it.
  Second of all, Mario, Zelda, Donkey Kong and Samus all make an appearance. Their theme music as 
 well. :D
  Third of all, it offers different game modes such as "Push" where you have to clear lines to force 
 your opponent into a small space. Their is also "Puzzle" where you have to figure out how to clear 
 ALL the lines.
  This game is way more addicting than Metroid Hunters and even though its an old yet classic game, 
 it will capture your attention once again. If you haven't played it before, you will have lotsa 
 fun! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nightphantom64
Rating: 7.3
Date: Apr 15, 2006 9:38 pm PT
Review:  This is one of the most old school games there is. Amazingly simple yet a total brain game. I still 
 remember playing the old black and white tetris on my big clunky gameboy, good time. But things 
 have changed since then. There are alot of new modes, 6 to be exact, some are alot better then 
 others though. Also the Wi-Fi cappabilitys add to the value and the amount you play.
  
  The graphics are bright and colorful, and the touch mode looks alot better than the others. The 
 old animated sprites add a cool touch to it too. Also, I like how on the top screen most of the 
 time there will be mario or some other retro NES game up there.
  
  The Gameplay is the same as is always was. Get the block, make lines, clear lines, get points, 
 block fall faster, you lose. The push mose is interesting. The more lines you clear the further 
 it pushes your opponet down. I like the concept of it. The puzzle mode is hard as anything. I got 
 up to around 126 and gave up. There are a total of 200 puzzles in all. The touch mode is my personal 
 favorite. The touch mode implies the properties of gravity for once! And its also pretty hard after 
 the 3rd level.
  
  The sound is all re-mixes of old school NES music. It's alright, not the best though.
  
  The 
 value is lacking. Once you finish the single player, your done. You can try to beat your friends 
 high score, but it doesn't last long
  
  Well, take this in to consideration before you buy it. Personally I like it, but I wish they could've 
 added a little more to the single player. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Nalanji
Rating: 6.5
Date: Apr 15, 2006 8:05 pm PT
Review:  Tetris, the original classic, EVERYONE has played Tetris, so why should you be buying this game? 
 Well, the thing that really shines about this game. THE MULTI-PLAYER! It is absolutely flawless, 
 it is the back bone of this whole game, without it, it would be a bargin bin game. Truely, not 
 too much fun to play alone. So make sure you find someone to play with, or this will hit the dumpster. 
 But, to set things up... this game is pretty cool, but remember it is the Multi-Player and WiFi 
 that totally make up this game. Otherwise, its just Tetris which has been on every console and 
 made every year, over, and over, and over.... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Bluejay64
Rating: 8.9
Date: Apr 15, 2006 10:50 am PT
Review:  I could write a really cheesy tagline like "Prepare to be infected with Tetris Fever. Consult your 
 doctor now," but I'm not going to. Tetris is too dignified, too respected for that. Instead, I 
 will just confirm that Tetris DS is just as addictive as it was all those years ago.
  
  Tetris DS adds 5 new variations to the classic Tetris gameplay and fortunately, while these do 
 variate quite heavily from this perfected formula, the fact that they are separated completely, 
 prevents them from butchering the classic play that Tetris fans adore.
  
  Of the 5 new modes, (Touch, Mission, Catch, Puzzle, Push) personally I favour Push mode, although 
 Touch is surprisingly fun, even if the only relation it bears to the original Tetris, is the blocks 
 they both use. Puzzle and Mission are enjoyable too but I don't feel they are as good as my favoured 
 modes. I cannot, however see the attraction of catch mode, but mode preferences vary ith the player.
 
  
  Each mode carries a classic Nintendo theme, (e. g Catch is Metroid) and has NES music to suit. While 
 some may find the old-school beeps of the NES annoying, I find them suitable and catchy, although 
 in six months time I'm not sure I will say the same. The one tune that does annoy for me is the 
 Donkey Kong theme that accompanies Push mode. Thankfully, the classic Tetris music is included 
 on Level 20 of the Standard mode.
  
  The only fault I can find with Tetris DS is the difficulty, the addition of "ghost drop" and "infinite 
 rotate" make the game significantly easier to play. While this makes the game more accessible to 
 Tetris novices, it does make it possible for the more advanced players to hit the 999 Line cap 
 with relative ease.
  
  Overall, Tetris DS is the best Puzzle game on DS and also my personal favourite for Wi-Fi play. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: OllieBrown
Rating: 9.2
Date: Apr 14, 2006 11:08 pm PT
Review:  I think the GS reviewer was way to harsh. I can find little to complain about other than the lack 
 of a classic tetris theme. Meta-tetris!! And how can you not like the music from Balloon Fight?! 
 That alone is enough reason to use it as a theme even if not may people remember it ... I do.
 
  
  The different game modes are all challenging in their own way. Both catch and touch modes put a 
 spin on tetris enough to entirely change the strategy and gameplay. I think the mission modes are 
 fun and I never had trouble figuring out what to do next.
  
  This may not be a reason to own a DS in itself but it is a must buy if you have one! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: RedPanther95
Rating: 8.8
Date: Apr 12, 2006 10:43 am PT
Review:  Tetris DS is the fifth DS game with the Nintendo Wi-Fi Connection. Now here is the list of them 
 and what I rated them.
  Mario Kart DS-9.3
  Animal Crossing Wild World-9.4
  THASL-N/A
  MPH-9.5
  Tetris DS-8.9
  Here is my review!
  Gameplay: Tetris DS has the best gameplay of 
 any puzzle game for DS yes I hate to admit it but it is better than Meteos. Plently of modes just 
 a great gameplay. The multiplayer is good also.
  
  Graphics: Not so good but they are the same as the NES. An eight.
  
  Sound: Great. Great. Great. 
 Really good. But not as good as Meteos.
  
  Value: Lives up to the Tetris name.
  
  Tilt: Satisfied. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Creapy_team
Rating: 8.8
Date: Apr 12, 2006 6:50 am PT
Review:  You all know what Tetris is about. Well, put the orginal Tetris formula in a mixer. Mix it with 
 great 8-bit Nintendo titles and the Nintendo DS.
  You get this.
  
  It is just regular Tetris with 4 new modes and that retrosmelling NES style.
  You will face games 
 like Super Mario Bros, Metroid, Legend Of Zelda, and so on. They all have there own remixed theme 
 music in the game so you will jump around in happines when you see that this game has a Sound Test 
 mode. Wee.
  
  The new modes is Puzzle, Touch, Push and Mission.
  Mission is basicily missions with Tetris with a time limit. You will need to "Make 5 lines" and 
 such things.
  Push is a two screened battle between two players, which they try to "push" each outer out of the 
 game.
  Puzzle is just Puzzle Tetris, try to defeat the games 200 puzzles! And they aren't ease-y.
  Touch 
 is like Tetris with all the blocks standing in a towerlike postion and you drag them around with 
 your stylus to make rows.
  All these new modes is really timespoiling and fun.
  
  Wi-fi modes are really fun too. This is the first game where you can play 10 Players on DS. With 
 just ONE CARD! OMFG!
  Online goes too, 4 players online.
  
  Buy this, now.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: jcheek13
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 11, 2006 10:28 pm PT
Review:  After watching gamespots video review of Tetris DS I was kinda skeptical on picking it up, but 
 I am a die hard Tetris fan so I decided to give it a shot. I played the original marathon mode 
 and enjoyed it, IK love the colors and the sound very very nice, then I did the VS mode against 
 the CPU and it was so much fun, the AI is great and its so good to have a VS mode in a Tetris game. 
 Well after playing the cpu for a bit I jumped on the WIFI for a bit, The people that play on wifi 
 are so good but it was fun and a great challenge, I really enjoyed the 4 player mode and push mode. 
 I have been playing Tetris DS for hours now, I cant put it down this is Truely the best Tetris 
 game ever and a must have if you own a DS. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MattyMaggs
Rating: 8.7
Date: Apr 10, 2006 3:26 pm PT
Review:  Yes this is Tetris, with a blatant Nintendo twist. Is it a bad thing? No. Is it a good thing? Not 
 really.
  
  Basically, if you like Tetris and have a DS, you should buy this game. Otherwise, why would you 
 even bother looking at the review? I would have appreciated more classic Tetris music, but quite 
 frankly, being able to play this game online at a moments notice kicks the crap out of having the 
 old Tetris jingles to clear lines too. 
  
  Bottom line: A must have addition to your DS is you are a fan of Tetris. Pretty much for Tetris 
 fans only. Wifi multiplayer is an amazing addition. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dcl1993
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 10, 2006 7:09 am PT
Review:  If your hesitating to decide if you want to buy this game get it.
  This game offers a "new level" of Tetris with the dual-screens.
  Graphics are great,
  Sound 
 great,
  Gameplay great,
  Value worth your money!
  
  This game has everything you want and expect in a Tetris game.
  This game is not to hard or easy, 
 it's a bit hard but,
  they show you what your next piece will be and you are able
  to lock one block at a time. You can unlock the piece and use it.
  After that, you can lock another 
 piece.
  It's obviously the next gen. of Tetris. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Seffora
Rating: 9.1
Date: Apr 13, 2006 10:02 pm PT
Review:  Tetris is a game that needs no introduction. If you are a gamer you know tetris. If you don't where 
 ahve you been for the past 20 years? Some argue the only reason the classic Game Boy stayed on 
 shelves long enough to become the behemoth it is was because of the classic monochrome Tetris pre-packaged 
 in every box. Now, almost 20 year later, Nintendo releases it's newest version of tetris. How does 
 it stack up to the coulntless other versions? Well here's how I felt after a few good hours testing 
 out each mode and online play.
  
  First of all there is more to the package than just Tetris. Well, it's all tetris, but in a variety 
 of different "flavors" some don't really feel like tetris at all, but that's not really a bad thing. 
 
  First is Standard Mode, which is Tetris in the purest form possible. This one is themed in a mario 
 Bors. skin. It's as close to classic Tetris as you're going to get but has some of the new "rules" 
 added. The most infamous of which is the "spin-till-you-win" rule. Yes the Tetris World "glitch" 
 is used as an officla rule now which means even when the tetrimino hits the bottom of the bin it 
 won't lock into place untill you stop rotating it. It may feel like they dumbed it down a bit in 
 a sense but it will auntomatically lock if you press up on the DPad. That brings me to the second 
 rule added, if you're in a rush you won't have to wait for the tetrimino to land. Just press up 
 and it will auntomatically lock in right where it is, which can speed things up but before you 
 use it make sure it's lined up right. Aside from those two rules it's classic tetris with a Mario 
 style to it. Additinally this mode can be played in single player, against AI, on local wireless 
 or online.
  One of the strangest new modes is the Touch Mode. This features a tower of tetriminos with a cage 
 at the top. Thois one is a little more obscure to those who don't have a deep Nintendo history 
 as it's set in the world of Balloon Fighter, a unique NES game that never really made it to the 
 legendary ranks of Maro Zelda or Metroid. Bassically for this game you shift the Teriminos with 
 they stylus to make lines. when you make a line they dissapear as always but the goal is actually 
 to reach the cage on top and open it. It feels a little awkward and simply isn't as much fun as 
 the other modes, but it's still an interesting new take on the game mechanics. 
  Push Mode is the Donkey Kong themed game that is sort of a mix between tug-of-war and tetris. You 
 drop tetriminos on the centre of the screen and each time you exacute a combo of two or more lines 
 you push the opponent towards the back wall. Whoever hits thier wall first loses. This is a little 
 tougher than the other modes if you don't really know what you're doing. You can play it either 
 against AI, local wireless or online. 
  Catch Mode is another unique mode added set in the Metroid universe. You have a Tetrimino core 
 that you navigate though Zebes. As you float along you'll come across drifting Tetriminos and Metroids. 
 Drift your core into the floating tetriminos to add them to your core. Once you make a solic 4X4 
 (or larger) grid made from tetriminos you have a few second before it detinates. You're goal is 
 to take out the floating Metroids with the explosion. If you miss any tetriminos or metroids you're 
 life gage will take a hit. 
  The last two modes are interesting variations of challenge modes. Puzzel is the first one. Set 
 off the Yoshi Cookie game you are given a pre-determined set of blocks and you have three tetriminos 
 to use. there is no time limit. You simply choose which tetriminoes to use in which order with 
 the stylus. You mush clear all the blocks on screen with the three to move on. There are 200 puzzels 
 to solve in all.
  Fibnally is Mission Mode which is the Zelda themed game. It is sort of a combonation of Puzzel 
 Mode and Standard tetris in that you are playing Standard Mode but the top screen will have a spasific 
 gaol to fill before the timer runs out. If you fail the gaol you will have a pile of junk added 
 to the screen and you have to move on to the next mission. This was one of my favorite modes along 
 side Standard. 
  Overall the new rules don't hurt it, espcially online. There is lots of variety and even if you 
 don't have any friends who have the game as long as you have a hotspot, wireless router or wi-fi 
 connector you can play multiplayer with anyone anytime which is a big plus since the big draw to 
 tetris is multiplayer.
  Graphically, it's not much to look at but the classic NES themes do add some flavor to it, although 
 only true oldschool Nintendo fans will appreciate them and the music can be a bit on the repetitive 
 side. 
  Overall, this would have to be my pick for THE Puzzel game not only on DS but any handheld (sorry 
 Lumines & Meteos fans) . there are a lot of modes of play and the best multiplayer around with 2-10 
 players local or 2-4 player world-wide. if you enjoy a good puzzel game tetris is still the game 
 to play and this could possible be the best version of it yet, overall. Even with all the Meteos 
 and Lumines of today Tetris is still the king after 20 years. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: VarsityGamer
Rating: 8.7
Date: Apr 8, 2006 9:02 am PT
Review:  For me this was the first Tetris game I actually played a lot of, Ive played previous versions 
 of Tetris but this is definitely my favorite for a few reasons. first the old school Nintendo look 
 may not have much to do with gameplay but for most puzzle games nailing down a good look and feel 
 is vital and this games takes the cake. Second I really enjoyed the new modes even thought they 
 are not the original Tetris and may not have the same longevity I thought they provided a good 
 break from the rigorous action of the original and some of the modes like touch and catch mode 
 provided enough gameplay to be a game on their own. What makes me most satisfied with Tetris ds 
 is the online modes. being able to play up to ten people on one game pack is something I didnt 
 think I would ever see and the inclusion of wifi play and individual rankings also makes the game 
 that much more addicting. Coming away from Tetris ds I find that it seems to do everything right 
 and even if its not a groundbreaking new entry into the puzzle market its still an extremely solid 
 remake of the game that started it all.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: pcebdan
Rating: 8.2
Date: Apr 7, 2006 4:31 pm PT
Review:  Tetris DS is a great game. FIrst off, you have the classic standard formula we all know and love. 
 But, Tetris DS offers 5 new modes to play.
  
  First is Push mode. Push is sort of like standard Tetris, but you play it against another person. 
 Your goal is to clear lines of 2 or more to 'push' your opponent to the end of a red line. The 
 first person to do it, wins.
  
  Next is Touch mode. You use your stylus to move tetriminoes left or right. In the normal mode, 
 you must clear tetriminoes until a cage of balloons reaches the ground. In puzzle touch mode, you 
 clear objectives on pre-made levels. 
  
  Puzzle mode is where you must choose the right shape to go into the 'missing space'. If you make 
 the wrong move, you must start all over. In some ways, this is sort of east because yo uwill evntually 
 get the right combination.
  
  Standard, is the original Tetris, but you can choose to play with or without items. The items are: 
 star, lightning, red shell, banana, boo, and mushroom. Mushroom makes a random opponent's blocks 
 fall faster for a short period of time. The star makes you invulnerable to other items and gives 
 you only 'I' tetriminoes for a sort period of time. The Banana randomly scrambles an opponent's 
 placed tetriminoes. The Boo covers an opponent's 'next' blocks, lowering strategic maneuvers. The 
 red shell clears the bottom 2 rows of your already placed tetriminoes. The lighting paralyzes your 
 blocks so that you can't move them!
  
  In mission mode, you also have to clear objectives in a certain amount of time. If you don't clear 
 it fast enouh, you will lose hearts. 
  
  Finally, there is catch mode. Probably the the most 'different' form of Tetris, thismode has you 
 catching tetriminoes as they fall. You objective is to make a 4 by 4 square and then detonate it 
 by pressing the 'X' button. Metroids fall down also, kill them to score big points.
  
  Overall a great game to have and enjoy. With 10-player single-card multiplayer and Nintendo Wi-Fi 
 connection, this game is a must have for multiplayer fans. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mastercid
Rating: 9.8
Date: Apr 3, 2006 7:50 am PT
Review:  Graphics: Although tetris is a puzzle game I must say Nintendo went above and beyond what is required 
 for tetris knockoffs. Not only did they include 6 gameplay modes, but, they made the enviorments 
 fit every nintendo character perfectly. My particular favorite was Catch mode which has an awesome 
 Metroid theme to it. Overall this game looks good.
  Sound: Okay now I know sound isn't a big thing in most puzzle games so I will leave this short. 
 The sound is great and if you love your old school nintendo games then you will love the music.
 
  Gameplay: This is where tetris ds shines and is not thrown to the side with all the tetris knockoffs. There 
 are 6 gameplay modes that are all diffrent enough to where you will be busy for some time. But 
 to add to that is the fact that there is online play and 3 game modes online. This elevates tetris 
 to an all new level of fun.
  Replay: Its Tetris people, need I say more?
  Overall: If you can pry yourself away from MP hunters long enough this will be in your ds for a 
 while. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ShenlongBo
Rating: 7.8
Date: Apr 11, 2006 9:56 pm PT
Review:  Twenty-something years, and more remakes than you can shake a stick at, and the gaming masses still 
 haven't tired of Tetris' simple, addictive gameplay. And since that famed gameplay was made so 
 popular on Nintendo's original GameBoy back in the eighties, it's only fitting that Tetris should 
 finally find itself back at home on Nintendo's latest. Tetris DS doesn't change much about straight-up 
 Tetris, and it even fails to best the original masterpiece in some areas, but one simple fact remains: 
 Tetris DS is the best reiteration of Tetris we've seen in a long, long time. 
  
  What makes Tetris DS special among the crop of other Tetris remakes comes down to three distinct 
 features: cool alternate gameplay modes, huge single-card LAN play, and cost-free online playability 
 right out of the box. Far be it from me to forget the simple fact that Tetris is already a fun 
 game anyway, even without extra features. Among the new modes is the addictive, adrenaline-pumping 
 Push mode which is playable against a friend or against the AI. The idea of Push mode is that two 
 players are using the same 2D plane to stack their blocks; one player on top, the other on bottom 
 (each player sees his own progress on their top screen, though) . As theTetriminos are dropped and 
 lines are cleared, the entire mishmash of blocks is pushed towards the end of the opposing player's 
 screen. It's not as confusing as it sounds. In fact, it's just like having your stack of blocks 
 reach the top of the screen in regular Tetris, only in Push mode the top of each screen is riddled 
 with spikes. Spikes that are on fire. Obviously, your goal is to make your opponent get poked by 
 the fiery spikes before you do, and awesome goals like that just don't come in your everyday puzzler.
 
  
  Mission mode is another mild deviation from textbook Tetris wherein the player tries to achieve 
 set goals as they clear lines. A good example is when the game prompts you to "clear a lines with 
 piece 'X'," or "clear three lines at once." It doesn't seem like much, but it's a great way to 
 break the monotony of Standard mode if nothing else. Catch mode is yet another unique spin on Tetris 
 that resembles a top-down shooter. The idea is to catch falling Tetriminos with your "ship" until 
 you form a four-by-four block that you can detonate for big points. The ship can be rotated as 
 a whole in order to align the falling pieces with their ideal resting places on the bulging mess 
 of Tetriminos. If your ship runs out of energy by colliding with approaching metroids, or if either 
 side of it touches the bottom or top of the play area, it's game over. Eventually the pieces and 
 metroids start falling faster, and your ship gets much, much bigger (see also: harder to control) , 
 which makes for some frantic puzzle gaming.
  
  But as good as these new modes are, WiFi play might well be the key selling point of Tetris DS. 
 There are three available modes of online play, including the pulse-pounding Push mode as well 
 as two- or four-player versus mode competitions. Besides the available use of items in the four-player 
 contest, not much differs between the two versus modes. The premise when playing versus mode online 
 is easy enough to grasp. Simply outlast your opponent in a more-or-less typical game of Tetris. 
 The catch is that when playing against someone, anytime you clear two lines or more with a single 
 piece, a pile of grey "garbage blocks" materializes underneath the blocks of your opponent's play 
 area, which pushes their stack to the top of the screen towards defeat. 
  
  The stat-tracking system for WiFi play is workable, if only a bit shallow. Every player starts 
 off with 5000 points for their rank that will increase with every victory, and decline with every 
 loss. A tally for wins is also kept, alongside the player's overall rank, but no losses are accounted 
 for at all. It really amounts to not necessarily knowing much about the person you're about to 
 go up against. Maybe they have a very low rank. That doesn't mean they're a bad player though, 
 because maybe they've just played loads of games against highly skilled players. On the flip side, 
 a player may have a terrific rank and win record, but for all you can tell they've only been matched 
 up against easier players. The greatest benefit to the system is that since losses are not tallied 
 up and put on display, players tend to be willing to play against the same opponent over and over 
 even when they are getting beaten, and with the persistence of poor sports and disconnectors still 
 prevalent in WiFi play in other games, this is a welcome gesture towards improvement.
  
  Whether you choose a random match with a player from across the globe, or a player registered on 
 your friends list, getting connected and into the action is a cinch. The only crippling part of 
 playing with a randomly selected opponent is that there is no way to communicate with them or to 
 add them to your friends list. So, if you spend an evening battling it out with someone you particularly 
 enjoy playing against, once you disconnect, there's no way to invite them back later. The best 
 bet is to get involved with online gaming hubs like the one at nintendowifi. com and get some people 
 registered on your friends list. Not only will that allow you to play against people you know you 
 like, but you can also use the site to check out where you and your peers stand on a variety of 
 Tetris DS scoreboards.
  
  Graphically, Tetris DS is a bit of a mixed bag. Each mode is thematically decorated in accordance 
 with a given classic Nintendo character. Push mode is designed to recall the original Donkey Kong 
 game. Mission mode makes thematic use of Zelda's world, and so on. And in each occurence, the pixelated 
 images of beloved Nintendo characters are left intact for stylistic effect. Still other nifty touches 
 prevail. As you begin clearing lines on the bottom screen in a single-player marathon, for example, 
 Mario makes a run through level 1-1 of the original Super Mario Bros. on the top screen. He'll 
 pretty much just goof off, walking back and forth and jumping around a bit until you actually start 
 clearing lines. As you do, you'll not only go up in level, but Mario will progress through his 
 stages and eventually enter new areas of the Mushroom Kingdom. Level two of Tetris on the bottom 
 screen, for example, is accompanied by a top-screen show of Mario bobbing through level 1-2 of 
 Super Mario Bros. More classic Nintendo titles make cameos on the top screen as you progress in 
 level, each of which has been touched up and refined just slightly to accomodate modern tastes. 
 Your willingness to risk error in-game to enjoy those updated visuals, however, puts into question 
 their total relevance. 
  
  And that's where the problem is, really. The top screen is kept vibrant and lively with terrific 
 recollections of Nintendo classics , but it comes at the cost of any appreciable variety on the 
 bottom screen. Twenty years ago, each time you achieved a new level in Tetris, all the blocks would 
 change colors. On Tetris DS, only the backdrop outside the actual play area changes, and even then 
 the alterations are mostly subtle. Had more attention been given to enlivening the actual gameplay 
 visuals, Tetris on the DS might have been a graphical marvel. Instead, the lack of all-around attention 
 to detail prevents Tetris DS from being meaningfully better to look at than the original or any 
 other Tetris remake to date. 
  
  It's a similar case with the aural showcase as well. Tetris DS hits hard with a killer techno beat 
 rife with Nintendo sound effects and samples right off the bat, then continues to impress as each 
 gameplay mode flaunts its own similarly impressive sound set. The bulk of the songs combine frenzied 
 tempos and serious sampling of Nintendo's effects archive to bring Tetris' gameplay to life, and 
 they do an admirable job of it. The only downside is that, once again, there is no real variety 
 to speak of. Tracks are relatively short, and they're set on auto-repeat. What starts off as a 
 cool melting-pot of Nintendo balladry eventually becomes a tad monotonous at best, and utterly 
 grating at worst. The original Tetris came with three very distinct song choices when it hit the 
 market decades ago. It seems logical, then, that since Tetris DS introduces its own brand-new musical 
 backdrop, it could at least feature four song choices some twenty years later. 
  
  All the visual and audio upgrading and remixing in the world can't hide the fact that Tetris DS, 
 at its core, is still just Tetris with an attractive new coat of Mushroom Kingdom paint. An annoying 
 lack of variety in some areas is what ultimately prevents Tetris DS from being a must-have title. 
 If you can live without playing Tetris online, and if you're not particularly enthusiastic about 
 playing a few cool reinventions of the game, then Tetris DS probably isn't worth your wampum. On 
 the other hand, if you're looking for yet another way to enjoy Nintendo's budding WiFi service, 
 or if gameplay twists like Challenge or Push mode are enticing to you, then Tetris DS is sure to 
 satisfy.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: GaMa729
Rating: 9.3
Date: Apr 1, 2006 9:45 pm PT
Review:  Gameplay: 9
  Well the gameplay is great. You all know how to play tetris and if you dont i guess you cant call 
 yourself a gamer cause every one has to have played tetris. Maybe some tetris games can bore you 
 but not this one. In this game there are some NES characters Such as Mario and Zelda which turns 
 boring tetris to a Nintendo Packed Tetris.
  
  Graphics: 10
  The graphics in this game are perfect. While you are playing you can see some NES characters in 
 their classic style version of themselves. There is nothing much more to say about this.
  
  Sound / Music:10
  The music is perfect. The music in this game is remixed versions from some 
 classic games such as Mario, which give you a beat while playing tetris so that you cannot get 
 bored.
  
  This game is a great game to play but after you beat the game then you wouldnt want to play over 
 and over again. Some games come with that feeling and some dont unfortunatly this game doesnt. 
 Also this game is great with Wi-Fi, and then the Wi-Fi version of this game is the only way it 
 will make you want to play again. you should go buy this game especially if you have Wi-Fi. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: xBlitzerx
Rating: 8.3
Date: Mar 29, 2006 10:54 am PT
Review:  Since Tetris needs no introduction, I'll jump right into my review.
  
  Gameplay: A ton (8) of gameplay modes including multiplayer and wi-fi internet play make this game 
 worth every penny. The whole presentation is done well. The touch features of the DS are incorporated 
 enough to make it a point to mention, but it's also not to much of a gimmick.
  
  Sound: The music consists of remixed classic Nintendo themes. All are sound great. The sound effects 
 are also nice and again Nintendo themed.
  
  Extras/Unlockables: The only real goodies to unlock or complete are the puzzles in the similarly 
 named mode. Also you get something for clearing 200 lines in marathon mode. I would have liked 
 a more rewarding style of game, but really I can't complain too much.
  
  To sum things up, this is a great Tetris game. Since I first got my DS I've been waiting to play 
 Tetris, and with the inclusion of online wi-fi play; this game is everything I could have hoped 
 for. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jamesz25
Rating: 8
Date: Mar 29, 2006 10:11 am PT
Review:  tetris tetris tetris lol what a fun packed game full of the usual things its a game that when you 
 go to the shops especially games shops and you find it in the store you have to take into account 
 whether or not you actually want this game if your a good fan then there would be no doubt but 
 if your just loking for a good game to play and dont really know about the game tetris then i advise 
 you to buy this puzzel game because i can guarrentee you wont be dissapointed if you like puzzel 
 games... have fun gaming 
::::::

::::::
UserName: OmataSSKKorosu
Rating: 9.6
Date: Mar 27, 2006 9:32 pm PT
Review:  Tetris DS is designed by Nintendo. It is intended to be played on the Nintendo DS.
  
  The basic gameplay is quite simple: You have a big tall rectangle screen in which various falling 
 shapes called "Tetriminos" fall from the top part of the screen. When you line up the tetriminos 
 in one horizontal line through the whole screen, they will disappear. The objective of the game 
 is to line up as many times as you can to get a high score. You can also save a shape for later 
 use. Be aware that you can only save one and switch only once after switching with the previous 
 tetrimino.
  
  As you progress through the game, the game starts to speed up, making you think even faster where 
 to put those blocks. When you have no more room to drop the next tetriminos, the game is over.
 
  
  The last two paragraph are, as mentioned before, the basic gameplay and objective in Tetris DS.
 
  
  Tetris DS has 6 modes in which are adorned with classic Nintendo Entertainment System characters 
 and themes. Below is a description of each mode and it's theme.
  
  Standard mode is basically the basic old school Tetris with the same basic gameplay and objective. 
 Within this mode, you have Marathon, in which the objective is to clear 200 lines. It is primarily 
 themed as Super Mario Bros, but it will change to different themes as you clear 10 lines. In Line 
 clear, you will choose the level and height, then clear the specified amount of lines. The faster 
 and harder they're done, the more points you will rack up. Vs CPU is simply a versus match against 
 the opponent. If you clear more than two lines at once, you will send "garbage" at the opponent, 
 which is put below the player's field.
  
  Push mode is played by two players only and only that amount of players. In this case, both players 
 are sharing the same field. Your area is the top screen while your opponent's the bottom screen. 
 By clearing at least two lines at once, you will push your opponent down the field. If you can 
 push your opponent down enough, you will win. This goes for the opponent as well, obviously. This 
 mode has the Donkey Kong Arcade theme riding along.
  
  Touch mode is used only with the stylus. It's decorated in Balloon Fight sense. In this mode, shapes 
 are stacked up like a tower. You have to move and rotate the blocks with your stylus, clearing 
 them in the same fashion of lining them up. To win, you must have the cage of balloons on top of 
 the shape tower to hit the ground. This mode is called Tower. In Touch Puzzle, you must improvise 
 as you have to solve the tower with the limited and specific blocks that you have at your disposal.
 
  
  Puzzle mode is played in the same way Touch Puzzle is played, only it must be solved in the original 
 Tetris manner. This mode consists of 200 puzzles to solve, however. Also, this is based off Yoshi's 
 Cookie.
  
  Mission mode is easier said than done. You're given a specific task that you must accomplish within 
 the allotted time. Your time is measured with hearts. They drain as you try to finish the mission. 
 If all hearts are depleted, you will be given garbage as consequences. Missions usually consist 
 of clearing a line with a certain shape. Some missions can be as simple as that, and then some 
 could be pretty tricky to finish. This mode also has an endless mode and Time trial mode, in which 
 you must finish a specific number of missions as fast as you can. This mode has the Legend of ZELDA 
 theme.
  
  Catch mode is the last mode I will describe in the main game. You control a core of a Tetrimino, 
 catching falling shapes to fuse together with. The objective is to create a 4x4 set of blocks in 
 order to make it explode to hit the Metroids (hence the Metroid theme) lurking about in the field. 
 Keep in mind that the core will explode after 10 seconds once it's activated. You will lose energy 
 if your core hits the Metroids. The game is over once you run out of energy or your core stacks 
 to the bottom or top of the screen.
  
  All these modes are for the Single Player mode. As for multiplayer, you can link up with 7 more 
 friends (which would be 8 players in total) and play standard versus.
  
  If you don't have anyone nearby, you can connect to Nintendo's Wi-Fi Connection and play with other 
 people worldwide. In WFC, you have 3 modes to play with others. Standard 2 player Tetris; Standard 
 4 player Tetris and Push mode. The only real difference is that Standard 4 player Tetris has items 
 in which can make your victory a reality.
  
  The graphics are very well neat. Every block is identified with a different color so you would 
 know what's next without much trouble. Nintendo hopes you think of the classics as you play through 
 the modes of the game, and it's done right, what with the NES interface and it's own game's theme 
 and the great remixed music that accompanies the gameplay.
  
  A game as simple as this is mighty addicting, as you may either want to get a high score, play 
 against some others or just play to pass the time. It's playability is guaranteed to be long.
 
  
  To conclude: Tetris DS is a special treat for those who like both Tetris and the old NES games. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ghostku1
Rating: 9.7
Date: Mar 26, 2006 7:25 pm PT
Review:  Amazing game regardless of what anybody says. Just get it. And playing against 9 people? Thats 
 pure awesomeness. You use items. New play modes. Everything about it screams Awesome. Wifi? Awesome. 
 And the music brings nostalgia. And when you're playing single player you watch mario play through 
 Super Mario bros. The gameplay is addictive especially with friends.
  Don't rent it because theres a high chance of wanting to play it more. Marathon has also gotten 
 significantly harder. 200 lines?
  I only got 137! T_T
  
  Aside from all i said it will get boring after a while if you have no friends to play with. Probably 
 beating the game will be your thing. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dandymarsh
Rating: 9.4
Date: Mar 26, 2006 1:38 am PT
Review:  I've Played Tetris on my old, clunky Game Boy. I've Played Tetris via its many clones on the Internet. 
 I've played Tetris on a Plane as In-Flight Entertainment. But playing Tetris on Dual Screens with 
 6 cool modes, that's something new...
  The Little Blocks of Four are back on the DS, wasting away time as you waste away lines of blocks. 
 The old-skool puzzler may seem simple and boring with the complicated games of today, but fans 
 of Tetris and newbies alike will surely get addicted and enjoy the game.
  A Touch of Nintendo adds to the glamour. NES characters like Mario, Zelda and Donkey Kong are lavishly 
 sprinkled onto the different game modes. The Music is also something to enjoy as remixed versions 
 of familiar tunes are played as you, well, play!
  The Standard Mode has the additional non-turn-offable HOLD function which is annoyingly tempting 
 to use, but for those who grew up without it, it shouldn't be much of a difference. The 5 other 
 modes (Push, Puzzle, Touch, Mission, Catch) are interesting as they're fun, but it'll take a while 
 to get used to.
  Adding to the game is another great Feature. Multiplayer, which can connect to a staggering 10 
 DSes with a single cartridge and Nintendo WIFi Connection, which links you with players around 
 the world.
  Nintendo has done a great Job with this Title and I recommend it to everyone who knows Tetris, 
 or has 10 friends with DSes. Bravo. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: fearthekitsu
Rating: 8.8
Date: Mar 25, 2006 7:20 pm PT
Review:  So what is so interested about a bunch of blocks? Well ask all of the millions of gamers that have 
 been addicted to the shape spinning insanity from Russia.
  
  Sure there is TONS of Tetris games out there, so what makes this one the one to pick up? 
  Well 
 heres some points to look at.
  
  - Its portable without having to stare at that tiny cell phone screen.
  - Retro Nintendo music 
 makes it very interesting.
  - Inventive new game modes keep you coming back for more.
  - Great visuals.
  - Wonderful controls.
  - The Dual screen makes it so much better.
  -Dude.... its 
 Tetris..
  
  If your a Nintendo fan, and just happen to be addicted to Tetris, this is a god send. If you are 
 a classic nintendo fan and have YET to experience Tetris, get out from under the rock you leave 
 under and pick up a copy.
  Even if you are a die hard Tetris fan and have seen it all, this is defiantly worth picking up 
 because of the new game modes. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: T_Magdi
Rating: 8.8
Date: Mar 25, 2006 3:59 am PT
Review:  Tetris is one of the most absorbing and entertaining games man has made. Just look at the blocks, 
 dropping down and down, being such a classic... now it's back with WiFi (and a twist) ! You can play 
 loadsa players online with the WFC and they all seem to... lose!! Myahaha! (Is it just me or the 
 players anyway?!?)
  
  Tetris is a must buy for puzzle fans! The graphics rock from the previous games, since they have 
 some cool Zelda/Mario thing on the top screen. Just get it if you like the sound of it. Sheesh.
 
  
  It's BETTER than: Meteos
  It's WORSE than: The original, of course.
  
  Gameplay:
  + Tetris. The best game ever made! With a twist. A good one.
  - Hate puzzles? You'll get annoyed.
 
  
  Graphics:
  + Improved with some Mario/Zelda movies on the top.
  - Nothing very special for the actual blocks.
  
  Sound:
  + Average music.
  - Flawed. It's 
 so annoying - is Katamari Damacy bothered?
  
  Overall, this game rocks. Get it if you like the sound of it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Canuuk
Rating: 9.6
Date: Mar 24, 2006 8:12 pm PT
Review:  Since the original NES was released in North America, Tetris was and still is one of my all-time 
 favorite games. The gameplay is simple enough and often very challenging. This is no different 
 with the latest version of the game; Tetris DS for the Nintendo DS.
  
  This version is even better since you can choose between six modes of gameplay and also have the 
 option of using the touch screen to place yours blocks. You can either beat your own score, accomplish 
 missions or just play endlessly. But the best feature for this game is, without a doubt, the Wi-Fi 
 gameplay. 
  
  For the first time ever, you can play Nintendo's classic against other players around the globe 
 via Internet. Everything is done quick as you connect and play almost immediatly. This game will 
 make you play for hours.
  
  Overall, I simply adore Tetris DS. One of the best for DS out there, for sure. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gersh100
Rating: 8.8
Date: Mar 23, 2006 6:53 pm PT
Review:  I personally am a big fan of Tetris and a big fan of Nintendo. A game so simple but so fun and 
 addictive its crazy and I mean crazy as in Krazy Kool. Some people think the music is annoying 
 well I have two things to say about that 1) there's a crazy switch located at the bottom left hand 
 corner of the DS called the volume switch *crowd gasps* 2) I dont find the music annoying its 
 basically a more jazzy versions of the original NES versions of the games music. There are also 
 many different versions of the original Tetris. Normal-self explanatory, mission- tells you what 
 you need to do (i. g. clear 3 lines at once) , Push mode- 2 sided where the bottom of your stack 
 is the bottom of your opponents com or human, Puzzle mode-drop the pieces were they need to go 
 in other words you dont have to be so quickly on your feet or in this case your thumbs *crowd 
 laughs* catch mode- instead of you controlling the pecies you control the base, and touch mode- 
 use the stylis (or in my case a Q-tip with the cotton ripped of) and navigate and move the pecies. 
 Any way that about sums it up so enjoy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nickscho
Rating: 8.4
Date: Mar 23, 2006 5:17 pm PT
Review:  This is Tetris, one of the most mindlessly addicting games in history. Many people dream of falling 
 blocks after playing this game, it's quite scary.
  
  There are many different modes of play here. Nintendo has taken the classic Tetris formula, and 
 tweaked it. There is a normal mode, a puzzle mode, an upside down mode where you play against an 
 opponent, and so much more! 
  
  The multiplayer is VERY addicting, especially if you play online. Although you may have some trouble 
 finding a 4 player match online, it is still fun! One of the problems with the online play though, 
 is that there are only 3 modes you can choose from, and they are very very limited: 2 player regular, 
 4 player with items, and 2 player push. The 2 player regular is very straightforward, clear lines 
 (2 or more at once to hurt your opponent) . The 4 player game is very fun, because you get items 
 you can use against opponents (VERY FUN!) , but like I said, finding a 4 player game, as of now, 
 can take a while. Unfortunately if you want to play 2 players with items, or another mode not listed, 
 you are out of luck. There is not much variety for online play and that is dissapointing.
  
  If you like Tetris, various forms of it, and you like addictive multiplayer, just go out and 
 get this game now. It is a no-brainer. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: emm333
Rating: 8
Date: Mar 22, 2006 4:33 pm PT
Review:  I have to admit that I wasn't a fan of this game when I purchased it yesterday and began playing 
 it. It seemed too old, too worn out, not worth the 35 bucks. But I was riding the subway home from 
 work playing the touch mode -- the one with Ballon Fight for a backdrop -- on a brighter screen, imported 
 DS Lite and the man sitting next to me said, "That's a nice game. Bright. Use it in the real world." 
 Those two comments (about the game, not the one about the DS Lite) about sum up this game. Tetris 
 DS is the classic puzzler with some nicely done new modes that challenge your grey matter and permit 
 some nostalgia, particularly with the flashy/sometimes annoying Nintendo retro designs. Nothing 
 stands out as exceptional, but everything plays well and provides some good fun and subliminal 
 thinking. If you're played Tetris before, you're love it, especially some of the new modes. I'm 
 addicted to the Catch mode now as it seem like vertical Lumines with bad 80s music and a different 
 set of rules... ok, it's nowhere as good as Lumines, but it's still fun.
  Anyhow, listen to the man on the subway: it's a nice game, it's got stuff that you can use in the 
 real world. That's way Tetris is a casual gamer's delight, and a hardcore gamer's break. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: CasualKillla117
Rating: 8.9
Date: Mar 22, 2006 12:49 pm PT
Review:  Now, I must, admit, I'm not much of a Tetris fan. I had the Game Boy version and that's pretty 
 much it. I am, however, a diehard Nintendo fan, and when I heard about Tetris DS's focus on old 
 Nintendo games, I figured the nostalgia would be too hard to pass up. 
  
  First of all, there are about six gameplay modes, each putting a different spin on Tetris, with 
 a Nintendo theme. My personal favorite was Catch mode, where you control a block of Tetri and try 
 to make a square that explodes. This one is Metroid themed. There is also Mission mode, one I liked 
 mereley because of the Zelda theme.
  
  The graphics, are abstract. It dosen't use any major power of the DS, and it's certainly no Meteos 
 killer in this department, but the old-school charm will be the driving force for most buyers. 
 The Super Mario Bros. theme mixes up the Mario look by putting a picture of real grass hills and 
 the backround and the didgitized hills have eyes instead of the clouds. It's a bit funny to see 
 the tiny changes here and there in Tetris DS.
  
  The multiplayer is fun, but it's nowhere near the levels of customization of Metroid Prime Hunters, 
 whch is dissapointing, especially since they released on the same day. Instead, you have two or 
 three modes of online play. Fun? Sure. Deep? Not exactly.
  
  The sound is something I could never hate, even if I wanted too. Mario, Zelda, Ice Climbers, Excite 
 Bike, Metroid, and more are all there, and the old Russian Tetris music is unlockable, but I prefer 
 my Nintendo noise.
  
  All in all, if you're a puzzle or diehard Nintendo fan, then this game is for you. If you got bored 
 of Tetris and want a fresh spin on things, then Tetris DS is for you. This is an essential game 
 for Nintendo lovers. It has small flaws, like the lack of online customization, but it makes up 
 for it in what it has in style, nostalgia factor, and fun. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mlwillin
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 22, 2006 10:49 am PT
Review:  I can't remember the last time i played Tetris but this game is as good and then some as the original. 
 Few puzzle games are worth buying this is one. So many different modes and it works with WI-FI 
 so if you see me on get ready for a beating. But seriously this game is what a game should be... 
 FUN and you can play with others even if they're on the other side of the world. This game was 
 wronged with a 7.5 from GameSpot and I'm beginning to think how you rate your games is a little 
 questionable. I mean com'on 7.5 this game rocks and how many times must i say it IT'S ALSO WI-FI 
 COMPATIBLE. It brings retro and new age together for NINTENDO FANS buy this game you'll thank me. 
 This game also brought a little bit of sunshine back into my world of NINTENDO i mean is NINTENDO 
 putting out good games again could the prophecy be true! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: eman781
Rating: 7.3
Date: Mar 22, 2006 9:42 am PT
Review:  This version of tetris features several new and innovative modes, but somehow the graphics have 
 not improved significantly in 20 years. Also, instead of being able to hear classic tetris music, 
 or new and innovative music of any sort, the game only features mario music in classic mode AND 
 YOU CANNOT CHANGE THE MUSIC!?! It is the same annoying mario theme over and over again that I have 
 already heard 8 trillion times and don't care to hear again. The other modes also feature old school 
 nintendo music such as zelda and metroid, but you cannot interchange them. I mean, come on nintendo, 
 where is all this imagination and creativity you keep attributing to yourselves?? the utter hypocrisy 
 of recycling the same old stale mario characters and themes from over 20 years ago and then turning 
 around and bragging about how creative they are makes me sick to my stomach. But still, if you 
 love tetris and feel the need to have it on the ds, you can always turn the volume down. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: flinnha
Rating: 9.8
Date: Mar 22, 2006 8:16 am PT
Review:  I know what you're thinking, "It's just tetris!!" I've heard it a thousand times or more. But that's 
 just the thing, yes it's Tetris, but it's MORE than that boring version you get for your cell phone.
 
  There's so many modes to choose from, it's like having 3-4 games in one. You've got your classic 
 style, push mode, one where you manipulate the mass of blocks at the bottom rather than the falling 
 piece, items, puzzles, missions... and more! Not to mention the WiFi play (only 3 modes are available 
 here, but they are the three best for multiplayer) . 
  It keeps the concept of storing one piece off to the side for later use from TetrisWorlds, and 
 adds some delightful themes and music from your favorite old school Nintendo games. You actually 
 get to watch Mario make his way through the original Super Mario Bros as you play classic Tetris. 
 The more lines you get rid of, the faster along the level Mario moves.
  To all you negative nancys who think Tetris is boring, you don't know what you're missing! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sergioalb64
Rating: 8.8
Date: Aug 25, 2006 9:30 pm PT
Review:  Wow, what a surprise; to be honest, I thought I would like Metroid Prime Hunters better, but I 
 haven't even played that one; Tetris DS has sucked an entire battery charge of my Nintendo DS.
 
  This game is nothing but Tetris with the Nintendo touch, and trust me, it doesn't get any better 
 than that. You can play in six different game modes, including Standard, Push, Mission and others. 
 You can find specific explanations for each on gamespot's review or preview, but all you need to 
 know is that they all play very similarly to Tetris, but each with its own flavor. You will be 
 switching from one mode to another frequently; this game will keep you busy for a while. 
  Graphically it isn't jaw-dropping, but it doesn't need to be. Nintendo-themed menus and modes, 
 such as Mario Bros., Metroid, and Zelda, are well welcome into the mix, and should appease Nintendo 
 fans and others very well.
  The sound is excellent; old-school Nintendo songs remixed to give the game that special boost. 
 Sure, we have all listened to those classic songs.... a lot, but it doesn't get boring.
  And of course, there's multiplayer. Local Wireless connection for up to ten players with one game 
 card, or the Nintendo Wi-Fi connection. You can go online and play Standard Tetris for 2 or 4 players, 
 or Push mode. Not much, but once you start playing, it's very hard to stop.
  The game is very addictive, pick-up-and-play experience. Puzzle fan or not, give Tetris DS a try, 
 and you'll see how the game card will get stuck on your Nintendo DS for quite a while. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: way2funny
Rating: 8.8
Date: Mar 21, 2006 6:18 pm PT
Review:  An old school puzzle game, with a DS Style face lift, obviously a must get.
  
  *Gameplay
  -Its simple, and fun. Nothing more to say. Anyway, it did feel a bit awkward at first, the standard 
 mode, but the difference-once you get use to it, makes the gameplay a lot quicker and more intense. 
 The touch mode was also a bit awkward, but ot still gets the job done.
  
  *Graphics
  -What can i say, its simple, and I do regret giving it a 7, but its simple, and thats the it could 
 have been better, as in more effects. Elaberate effects would have been nice, but nothing too much 
 to complain about.
  
  *Sound
  -Great remixes of old classics. I just wish the had the original Tetris music, maybe they do, but 
 i havent unlocked any of the music so far. They should have added more Mario mixes, and even some 
 Zelda music, the windmill song would have been so awsome.
  
  *Value
  -Many modes to choose from, but not enough for 35 dollars. Don't get me wrong, I tihnk its worth 
 it, but as Gamespot said, it could have been more, and should have, but their review is overally 
 underatted. Multiplayer is really fun as well, offline and online.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: DoubleDragon
Rating: 9.4
Date: Mar 20, 2006 10:09 pm PT
Review:  What can I say? This is quite possibly one of the greatest games ever. I love how Nintendo was 
 able to take a 20 year old game and make it new and exciting again. I love the touch screen game 
 mode where you have to move pieces around to form lines and clear out all of the blocks. Obviously 
 you have the standard mode where you play to make lines and the game gets faster etc. etc. The 
 catch mode is great as well where you collect pieces that fall from the screen to make 4x4 set 
 of blocks to make them explode, the game gets faster as well as you progress. I love also how nintendo 
 has represented each mode with a classic nintendo game. For example , the standard mode is represented 
 with the classic NES super mario bros backdrop, the touch mode is represented with the NES classic 
 balloon fight game, the catch mode is represented with NES great Metroid. You get the idea. Some 
 people may say all these features may be just filler or just to add some nostalgic value, but I 
 say it's a nice addition to an already great game. This is easily the best puzzle game for the 
 DS just for the fact of the many game modes, the online play, and the fact that you can play with 
 so many people (up to 10) on one cartridge makes this game highly recommendable to anyone. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ghangiskhan1
Rating: 8.4
Date: Mar 20, 2006 2:53 pm PT
Review:  It's Tetris, you gotta love it. Well except for Tetris Worlds. Tetris DS makes you relive the old 
 days with it's old school Nintendo backgrounds, and music in it. That is one of the coolest new 
 addition. It proves that you can make a sequel to a game as simple as Tetris.
  
  Graphics are just average. Most of the stuff is just 8-Bit but it stays true to Nintendo. Music 
 is awesome. It's remixed versions of those old Nintendo games you used to play like Super Mario 
 Bros. and Legend of Zelda. Not much detail in the visuals but they have nostalgia.
  
  Gameplay is basic but very addictive and just plain fun. New four player WiFi matches are a blast, 
 and even improves th ereplay value more but there should be more variety and more than up to four 
 players in the DS WiFi battles. It's still a great game despite its flaws.
  
  And it's Tetris. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tigga24540
Rating: 9.1
Date: Mar 20, 2006 9:33 am PT
Review:  this is one of those games that I like a alot. this is simple for the ones who don't play games 
 much, but very complex for those who are intense gamers. the use of the touch screen is also very 
 good for all types of gamers. if U were a fan of it then, U are a fan of this one. BUT, the game 
 also has some draw-backs. but if U are a true tetris fan, then U wil get over it. All in all, the 
 game is good enough for U to want to play it, and U will have a good time wit this one. I suggest 
 that U buy this one. I love it with all my heart, and U will too. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
