-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: The Chronicles of Narnia: The Lion, The Witch and The Wardrobe
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/ds/action/thechroniclesofnarnia/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 Nice, 3D graphics and character models.
 Great music.
 Simple but fairly flexible character-development system.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 Combat is clumsy, slow, and repetitive.
 Major slowdown evident when more than a handful of characters are onscreen simultaneously.
 Repetitive sound effects get annoying.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Dec 19, 2005
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 6.3
Critic Score: 6.9, 24 Review (s)
User Score: 6.9, 170 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Buena Vista Games
Developer: Griptonite Games
Genre: Fantasy Action Adventure
Date: Nov 14, 2005
ESRB: Everyone 10+

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
The storybook charm of Narnia quickly fades away, leaving a fairly average game that doesn't do 
 much to complement the movie. 

  The Chronicles of Narnia: The Lion, The Witch and The Wardrobe has already proven to be hugely 
 successful in the realms of literature, television, and film. Coinciding with the recent movie, 
 C. S. Lewis' creation has moved into the world of handheld video games with the aptly named The 
 Chronicles of Narnia: The Lion, The Witch and The Wardrobe, an action adventure game for the Nintendo 
 DS. The game is developed by Amaze Entertainment, a company that has a history of bringing blockbuster 
 fantasy films to life on the small screen with such licenses as The Lord of the Rings and Harry 
 Potter. The relationship is evident in the design of Narnia on the DS, as the game shares the same 
 brand of simple action and light puzzle-solving as its cousins. Unfortunately, tedium sets in quickly 
 in Narnia, and you're left with a fairly average game that doesn't do much to complement the license. 

          Now you can carry the Pevensies in your pocket, which is cool, sort of.     

  Narnia on the DS plays like an introduction to hack-and-slash role-playing games. You play through 
 the story as the four Pevensie children from the movie. The main objective in the game is to defeat 
 the White Witch and save the troubled fantasy world known as Narnia. This involves crisscrossing 
 the rather small world on foot, battling enemies such as wolves, rats, giants, polar bears, dwarves, 
 minotaurs, and white tigers. As you fight, your characters earn experience and eventually level 
 up. With each level a character earns a virtue point, which can be applied to one of four stats 
 to increase health points, defense, strength, and willpower, which determines how often a character 
 can use a special skill.  

  You control one of the children while the rest tag along and provide some basic support, depending 
 on how you set the artificial intelligence for each character. You can have a character heal, attack, 
 or defend, depending on their strengths, weaknesses, and abilities. Each child has unique abilities, 
 and you can switch among characters in your party with a press of one of the shoulder buttons. 
 You can have a maximum of four characters in your party at a time, but you can gain the ability 
 to summon familiar creatures who will help out in battle. The story rarely allows you access to 
 all four of the children at the same time, so you don't have any say over who gets to come along 
 on each quest.  

  As you go from dungeon to dungeon and battle to battle, you'll meet various friendly creatures, 
 who will assign side-quests that usually involve menial tasks such as finding an item or clearing 
 an area of a specific type of enemy. If you complete a side quest, the assigning animal will teach 
 you a valuable skill. Some skills, such as passive stat boosters, can be learned by any character. 
 Other skills are specific to each character. Peter can learn combat skills such as a shield bash, 
 Lucy can learn magic and play panpipes to cast healing spells and summon familiars, and so on. 

  All of the characters in your party share the same health gauge, which sounds odd, but it's actually 
 convenient in practice. If a character takes a hit when the health gauge is empty, he or she will 
 get knocked out for a few seconds. When none of the characters are left standing, you have to start 
 over at the last checkpoint, which is never very far away. After you learn how to exploit this 
 system you can often just let your melee characters keep fighting, dying, and recovering while 
 keeping one character out of danger, thus keeping the party alive. In addition to keeping your 
 characters conscious, you have to keep them warm. Narnia is pretty much frozen solid, after all. 
 There's an icon in the upper left of the screen that tells you if your characters are warm or cold. 
 If they're warm, they'll earn more experience and perform better in battle. If they're cold, you 
 can enter a shelter to warm them up. There's also a day and night cycle in Narnia, which affects 
 your characters' warmth as well as what types of enemies you'll encounter.  

  Despite all the little bits of detail, the game comes down to running around and beating up enemies 
 over and over and over again. Since the world is fairly small, you'll have to do a lot of backtracking, 
 and since each area resets when you reenter, you'll have to fight the exact same enemies each and 
 every time you go through any given area. This is handy because it provides experience fodder, 
 but you always end up feeling like you're running around in circles. That wouldn't be especially 
 bad if the combat was fun, but the combat in Narnia is clumsy and slow. The characters all have 
 the same couple of stiff animations in battle, and they move pretty slow. Landing a hit isn't satisfying 
 either, because there's no sense of impact. The only way you know you hit a character is by looking 
 for a little yellow spark that tells you that your hit landed. It often feels like you're swinging 
 right through the enemies as if they aren't even there. The same goes for when enemies attack you. 
 When you fight a giant, he'll just jerkily sweep his club through your characters and they'll fall 
 over, even if it looks as though they're well out of striking range. The combat is simple too, 
 consisting of only an attack button, a block button, and a button to activate special abilities. 
 Because a lot of the abilities aren't worth the trouble to use, you'll mostly end up repeatedly 
 tapping the A button to do the same three-hit combo until your enemy finally falls. The four children 
 all behave similarly, except for Susan, who has a ranged attack. As a result, you won't often find 
 yourself needing or wanting to switch characters very often. Lucy can use magic and play songs, 
 which is handy because she can heal the party, but you have to use the touch screen to draw symbols 
 or tap notes, and that just isn't practical in the midst of battle.  

  Aside from the magic, the touch screen is used only to navigate menus, which are always displayed 
 on the lower screen of the DS. The menus are awkward and not at all intuitive, and since a lot 
 of the selection areas are quite small, you'll have to use the stylus or a very precise finger 
 tip, which makes the entire act of navigating menus much more work than it should be. Other than 
 the menu issue, there's glaring flaw with the presentation of the game: the crippling slowdown 
 that occurs whenever there are more than six characters on screen at a time, which happens often. 
 The characters are all fully 3D and they're nicely detailed, with different skins for your characters 
 depending on what they're wearing. Unfortunately, though, the animations are pretty stiff, there's 
 only one model for each type of enemy, and there aren't all that many enemies in the game. However, 
 if you're able to look past those few rough spots, you'll mostly enjoy the presentation of the 
 game. The environments are full of details that make them feel like naturally occurring landscapes -- frozen 
 streams, icy cliffs, and plenty of plants and small woodland creatures such as squirrels and birds. 

  The sound in the game is a blend of great music but annoying sound effects. The music sounds like 
 it was taken straight from the movie, and it fits the theme of each area perfectly. The sound effects, 
 on the other hand, sound bad to begin with, and after you hear the same grunt or clank a thousand 
 times you'll want to mute the noise. There are some nice ambient noises, like birds chirping and 
 wolves howling, but for the most part the sound effects don't do much for the game.  

          The combat in Narnia just isn't satisfying enough to carry a 12-hour game.     

  The 
 Chronicles of Narnia: The Lion, The Witch and The Wardrobe takes about 10 or 12 hours to finish, 
 and you can play cooperatively with up to three other players as long as each player has a copy 
 of the game. You can import your saved characters into a multiplayer game, and although other players 
 can't quite jump in on the action at any time, you can choose to start a multiplayer game at one 
 of the specific story points that you've reached in the single-player campaign. Whether playing 
 solo or with friends, Narnia offers a decent, if somewhat tedious, adventure while it lasts, and 
 the simplicity should appeal to young and casual players who are fans of the movie. But it's difficult 
 to recommend this game, especially since there are so many better ways to spend time with your 
 DS.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (15 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: Jamez634
Rating: 5.5
Date: Jul 7, 2008 5:24 pm PT
Review:  Amaze entertainment have given us a Narnia DS game that brings a frown to our faces. This game 
 totally wrecks the Narnia experience.
  
  STORY
  Obviously the Narnia DS game has the same story line as the movie. Peter, Edmund, Susan and Lucy 
 are sent away because of the war and Lucy finds a wardrobe that leads to a magical world called 
 Narnia. I could go on forever with this, so if you want to know the story line you might as well 
 see the movie. In this game, there are a lot of different places you didn't see in the movie that 
 you can explore, so there's more to it than the movie story line.
  
  Story: 9/10 (concerning the movie)
  
  GAMEPLAY
  The gameplay is as slow as ever. You're in 
 a 3D enviroment and it feels terrible. You use the arrows to move, A to attack and B to block. 
 While your playing the game, you're bassically controlling all the kids. You use the R and L buttons 
 to switch your characters (I prefer Peter, as he has the best attack ability) . While you're one 
 of the kids, the others just follow you. The stupid thing is that everywhere you go, enemies are 
 there waiting for you (you'll be lucky if you can escape them) that you have to beat for no reason 
 at all. Everyone runs really slow and you wish you could jump over ledges, but you can't jump, 
 so you have to search the whole valley for a way to get over. It's a button masher with a stick 
 for a weapon (you have to buy a sword from "the squirrel store") . On the touch screen there's a 
 map and some other handy little things you need on your touch screen (this is good!) .
  
  Gameplay: 4/10
  
  GRAPHICS
  The graphics are pretty neat. There's a starting movie with the 
 wardrobe opening which looks like it was taken from the movie with no glitchy bits! But, I can't 
 say the same for when your playing the game. Sure, it's alright for the DS. Everything is pretty 
 clear. But, I can assure you, you won't be thinking about the graphics in this game. It's too annoying 
 with the gameplay.
  
  Graphics: 8/10
  
  SOUND
  You will know when you've been hurt as your character is always making an "Ooof!" The music is 
 so annoying and infuriating and repetitive that it'll make you feel like you want to slam your 
 DS at the ground. The music is very clear and well done for the DS, but it's too clear!
  
  Sound: 6/10
  
  Overall, Narnia DS is a disappointment to all Narnia fans because it is as annoying 
 as ever.
  
  RATING: 5.5 
::::::

::::::
UserName: randomrings
Rating: 4
Date: Jan 27, 2008 4:44 pm PT
Review:  So you have every Sonic Team game for the Nintendo Gamecube excluding all the Phantasy Stars but 
 including Billy Hatcher. You've been playing Sonic since the second for Genesis and another movie-based 
 game comes along. Not only is the game based off of a movie, but the movie is based on a book. 
 On top of all that good stuff, the book and the movie are no good, and that's only the second book 
 anyways. Give me a good reason why you should care about this game. You don't. The reason I got 
 this for Christmas was because the big war in the movie was very nicely done, and DS games cost 
 Santa less than console ones. As long as you don't put in cheats, the character upgrades and some 
 of the action are actually decently done and then the beginning (like in the movie) is pretty 
 boring even when you get to play as Mr. Tumnus. There's also a new chill thing that if you stay 
 in the cold too long you start losing health (good side) but the exploration and eventually the 
 combat get very boring and horrible too. Don't think about thinking about getting this game. Better 
 DS games include Super Mario 64 DS, Sonic Rush Adventure, and Mario Kart DS. Enjoy those, not this, 
 unless you want to see why I gave it away. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: CM101
Rating: 4.5
Date: Feb 17, 2007 6:37 am PT
Review:  This game could have been great but, sadly, it's only reached an ok in my books. Just like every 
 other game created after a movie, it lacks the style and escence.
  
  Of course I cant exactl badmouth the graphics because they where up to DS standard, or where they. 
 I've discovered that the graphic system is quite good on the DS and yet, Narnia comes with blurred 
 vision and bad handling. It uses the touch screen to what could be expected. Using the pen to look 
 through inventory and solve the odd riddle. Its not used to it's fullest ability but, it works. 
 The controls are average layout and would be terrible if they where set out any differently. I 
 think there are many better games out and, unless you want to waste some money, I recommend you 
 to not buy it. It's just like the Harry Potter games, it's horrendous compared to the movie.
  
  Do not buy it, it belongs in the bin. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Kratos_Obsessed
Rating: 2
Date: Jun 28, 2006 1:05 pm PT
Review:  First off, you can see the graphics look fine with the changing characters, and the regular view, 
 but as it progresses, you start to get confused. When talking to others, they look cubic and sloppy. 
 If you stay on the same line for an hour, their mouths will continue to move. For awhile it is 
 fun, running around and hitting creatures with sticks that you can upgrade to swords, but there 
 are practically no instructions, so you have no idea how to get powers. The fact that the children 
 get cold is realistic, but very stupid, as they slow down, at very inconvenient times.
  Lucy: She is only good for healing her siblings, her dumb dagger only gets upgraded to a gold one 
 or something, not a great idea.
  Edmund: The idiot isn't there for half the game, and you've already spent most powers on him when 
 you don't use him.
  Susan is practically powerless, as enimies come up to her and stab her while she tries to shoot 
 them with an arrow (very hard to aim)
  Peter: The only capable fighter in the group.
  The game is absolute crap. Don't waste your money.
  
  My conclusion:
  The movie was spectacular, 
 but the game is so much less. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ozland
Rating: 8.3
Date: Apr 23, 2006 5:57 am PT
Review:  I was realy looking forward to this one, i read the book when i was young, and i always wondered 
 what it would be like wandering around narnia and meeting all the magical creatures, and then i 
 bought narnia for the DS.
  
  First of all i must say that i realy like narnia camera perspective, i like games that has that 
 kind of view, its like harry potter and more, so i was happy to see that narnia follows that kind 
 of game view.
  The graphics are good, the places are detailed enough. and you have little nice things like when 
 you walk on icy waters you slide or you leave footsteps on the ice, so its nice. The characters 
 and other creatures are detailed and good animated and there are some special graphical features 
 that looks great on the DS like when you kill a creatue or when you have a power shot you see flares 
 and sparks.
  
  The gameplay is good, you have your main mission and side missions you can take on your self or 
 not. The good thing is that you have a lot of side missions so the game lasts. The bad thing is 
 that the gameplay is a little repetitive after a while and you find your self fighting and trying 
 to find stuff to upgrade your characters. The fighting mechanism is good and the enemies ui is 
 good.
  
  Finaly, i think its a worth buying game, that can keep for hours. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: poohbear12
Rating: 5.8
Date: Mar 28, 2006 9:22 pm PT
Review:  OK, so I'm not really a fan of the whole Narnia thing. Never read the books, found the movie mildly 
 entertaining but also mildly annoying.... why did I buy this game, you ask?
  Well, I am a total sucker for a hack-n-slash, level-up while questing RPG, that's why. So, figuring 
 GS was erring on the side of snidely dressing down another film-based game, I found and bought 
 a copy of it used.
  
  Now, again, I love this type of game. I spend hours happily levelling up to uber-strong, in order 
 to face the big boss that is bound to be around the next bend. So.... why is this one that I cannot 
 seem to get into?
  
  It has all the correct trappings for the genre: traits that increase as you level up through experience, 
 numerous quests that span numerous areas in Narnia, various weapons and armor upgrades available 
 from the squirrels.... I should be spending day and night playing this game.
  Instead, I pick it up, play for about a half-hour, then get bored and put it down again. Most of 
 the quests are either extremely simple and obvious (get rid of the baddies at these coordinates) , 
 or completely unclear as to what you need to do ('rescue my brother from some unknown place') . 
 The fighting is basic button-mashing for the most part, so that if you have levelled sufficiently 
 you should have no trouble getting through. Saving the game is a touch-screen away (no need to 
 find save points or anything) , and a log book keeps track of stuff you've done or still need to 
 do. It has all the mechanics, but is lacking in terms of enjoyment. It's kind of like eating what 
 looks like a pizza, but turns out to be a cardboard cutout with a picture of a pizza on one side. 
 Looks good, but as bland as it can be. What with the repetitive fights, and constant backtracking 
 to complete quests (returning to the person who handed you the quest, which involves remembering 
 exactly where said person was, and hacking through the same baddies to get to them) , the entire 
 time felt like it was spent doing chores for characters... necessary, somewhat mind-mushingly dull, 
 and repetitive.
  
  In actual fact, I think this game will likely appeal to younger audiences (at least younger than 
 me) , while us....'mature'.... gamers are left high and dry.
  So, if you are reading this review and thinking 'who's this old fart?', then you will probably 
 like this game. 
  If, on the other hand, you fondly recall playing the first Diablo when it first came out, you will 
 not be impressed.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Zionwingcroff
Rating: 8.6
Date: Jan 22, 2006 7:32 pm PT
Review:  It was a good book. It was a great movie. It was an even better game! If you value the Stick to 
 the show type of game Play this. The battle systems good, the leveling system is good and it is 
 hours of Fun.
  
  The major downs were the fact that trough half the game u lose edmond, so u might want to build 
 him up alot to survive when he gets back. Another annoyance was all the side quest. Theres a large 
 amount of diversity in the types of quests but its mostly find this go get that, you now the whole 
 fetching game. But some are cool because all you heave too do is deafeat him . you get great bonuses 
 for doing them though. so its all worthit but it gets pretty tedious after awhile. 
  
  Also theres alot of dungeons there fun butn there also hard to find witsh is annoying because most 
 of the time there the main quest. 
  The difficulty is Tricky because athough it starts out easy it increases rapidly so you usuly need 
 alot of building up.
  
  One big bounus is that your healh is all combined so if it runs out u still got a chance as lng 
 as u avoid being nocked down witch uslly implys a lot of wait-till-your-team-gets-up tactics or 
 hit-and-run tactics.
  
  all in all it is a fantastic game but theres still some room for improvement.
  
  May All Your 
 Games Be Good
  Zion 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MASTERCHIEF55
Rating: 1.3
Date: Jan 8, 2006 10:18 am PT
Review:  wooooooooooow........... what a stupid game............. i don; t get the game at all!!!!!! First 
 lucy jumps on the stupid ogre then lucy gets captured!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!! WHAT'S THE WHOLE POINT OF 
 MAKING LUCY GET ON THE BACK OF THE STUPID OGRE WHEN SHE'S JUST GOING TO GET CAUGHT?!!!!!!!!!!!!!!
 
  I HAVE NEVER SEEN A GAME THIS RETARTED BEFORE!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!! WHY, EVEN BARBIE IS BETTER THAN 
 THIS GAME!!!!!!!!!!! ATLEAST I CAN SEE THAT BARBIE IS TRYING TO DO SOMETHING WHILE THESE STUPID 
 KIDS DO ABSOLUTLY NOTHING EXCEPT TAKING A STICK AND WACK SOME WOLFS THAT BARELY POSESS ANY THREAT 
 AT ALL!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!! I'M REALLY MAD CAUZ I WENT BROKE CAUZ I THOUGHT THAT THIS GAME WAS WORTH 
 PLAYING AND BOUGHT IT BUT INSTEAD IT SUCKS!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!! I WANT A REFUND!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!! 
 BUT THE GAME SELLER SAID NO, YOU GOTTA HAVE YOUR RECEIPT TO DO ANYTHING WITH THAT GAME. BUT THEY 
 NEVER DID GIVE ME A RECIEPT AND I TOLD THEM TO GIVE ME A RECIEPT BUT THEY SAY NO!!!!!!!!!!!!! THE 
 POINT IS THAT THIS GAME ISN; T WORTH IT. DON; T BOTHER SAVING YOUR MONEY TO BUY THIS GAME EVEN IF 
 YOU LUV THE BOOKS OR THE MOVIE CAUZ THERE'S A BIG DIFFERENCE BETWEEN THE GAME AND THE MOVIE. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GreenFreak27
Rating: 6
Date: Jan 6, 2006 3:34 pm PT
Review:  The Chronicles Of Narnia ia actually an o. k. game. I have never really payed much attention to it. 
 I think some of the parts there are really retarded.
  For instance, the part with the ogre. What's up with that?
  My little sister, who is 8, really 
 likes the movie, so she bought the
  game on ps2, and is playing it non-stop. It gets really annoying. I especially hate the little girl, 
 Lucy. The only good thing she is used for is healing her siblings. That's it.
  Another reallyannoying part of the game is when you have to hide from the professor or ogre. I 
 mean, come on, they can't be that dumb. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: 990
Rating: 8.7
Date: Jan 3, 2006 7:41 pm PT
Review:  awsome graphics good if you like bloody games you start off as 4 pathetic chidren and turn them 
 into killing machines  buy it its great 
 i t s a w e s o m e a n d its cheap peter is good at combat lucy can heal susans a archer edmund 
 can climb stuff its 100% GOOD THE AGE GROUP IS 8-16 BUY IT BUYIT S S S S S S SS S S O O O O O O 
 O O O OO OO B B B B B BBU U U U U U UU UYY IT 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hitman_killer7
Rating: 8.8
Date: Dec 17, 2005 9:20 pm PT
Review:  This game for the DS is outstanding, great storyline, the graphics arent half that bad, I can deal 
 with a few glitches here and there. This game kinda reminds of Chapions for the PS2, its hack n 
 slash like it. this game is really amazing and I recommend this game to any ds fan out there. if 
 they are looking for a game they should get this one, it will keep you busy for hours and hours, 
 youll collect magic and such, and use it against enemies and look pretty cool also. this game is 
 worth the money, or if you dont wnat to spend your money, ask for it for christmas or hunika or 
 whatever 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gamekid15
Rating: 8.6
Date: Nov 27, 2005 2:21 pm PT
Review:  This is a fun game, some might like it some might not but I say its GREAT! 
  
  Graphics: 7/10 Good but could be better pictures online dont do it justice!
  
  Gameplay: 8/10 
 Not really hair pulling because you get to take a break from it all and run quests for other creatures 
 and get skills.
  
  Controls: 10/10 Very easy to use, not for a 5 year old but still, what 5 year old plays the DS?
 
  
  Sound: 8/10 you have all the fighting noise but personally I dont listen to the music through out 
 the game so yeah!
  
  Replay value: 6/10 better than average because you can forget some things and remember others.
 
  
  All in all: 10/10 so far the best DS game I have played! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: zcds
Rating: 7.5
Date: Sep 22, 2007 1:08 pm PT
Review:  This is a good game. This is the first hack n slash to come to the ds and it does a good job to 
 show that the ds can handel it. Now fighting can be shalow. But you get upgrades. Thanks to the Ds 
 clock narnia changes to what ever seson it is. Even the time of day. Its not level to level game. You 
 get to go about narnia freeley. Takeing on main and side quest. Side quest will teach you new talents. 
 You can aslo play with 3 other friends. But sadley they each need the game. So if you read the books 
 are looking for a hack n slash for your ds i say get this. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Gh3tt0_Xiao
Rating: 8.8
Date: Nov 25, 2005 12:32 am PT
Review:  This game is a challenging adventure/RPG type that while may be boring at first, gets harder and 
 more addictive. If you liked Super Mario 64 DS, this is practically the same (except Mario doesn't 
 have swords, daggers, arrows, and beasts) . It starts with an in-game tutorial showing you the ropes 
 and giving you a basic idea of what the game will be like. Most of your time will be spent finding 
 your way around, fighting battles, and plenty of side-quests. By killing various creatures you 
 obtain experience points, gain levels and ice crystals (the form of money in the game) . With these 
 crystals you can buy armor, weapons, poisons, and food to heal yourself. While I've spent countless 
 hours playing the game, there is a total 16 hours of gameplay (awesome considering its a hand-held 
 game) . The sound of the game is incredible! the opening music is just awesome, not to mention the 
 in game sound. If you were a blind person sitting next to someone playing this game, your ears 
 would be filled with sounds of swords clashing, beasts roaring, and grunts of strength. The main 
 idea of the game is to go around trying to restore peace to Narnia and defeat the wicked witch 
 that put the land in an eternal winter. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jynx6258
Rating: 4.3
Date: Nov 21, 2005 1:23 pm PT
Review:  this game looked excited when i first saw it i thought it would be like some kind of age of mythology 
 game i rented it first and it was ok then i got further in the game and they talked way to much. 
 the graphics were like any old console game graphics. the sound was like just old violin harry potterish 
 birds chirping sound the value $40 for the game i thought was actually horrible its a bad game. 
 you might as well put thoughs 8-bit games for $40 too. over all i give this game a 4.2 out of 10.0 
 i thoght it would be a whole lot better. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
