-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: The Legend of Zelda: Phantom Hourglass
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/ds/adventure/thelegendofzeldads/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 Gorgeous visuals.
 Touch-screen controls work wonderfully.
 Lots of nifty puzzles to solve.
 Great boss fights.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 A few pacing problems make certain sections of the game a bit of a drag.
 Some experienced players might find the game a touch easy.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Oct  1, 2007
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 9
Critic Score: 8.9, 72 Review (s)
User Score: 9.1, 7,141 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Nintendo
Genre: Fantasy Action Adventure
Date: Oct 1, 2007
ESRB: Everyone

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Phantom Hourglass wraps the standard Zelda formula in an innovative and fun control scheme that 
 gives new life to several of the series' age-old concepts. 

  It's kind of shocking when you think about it, but despite the Nintendo DS's nearly three-year 
 lifespan, The Legend of Zelda: Phantom Hourglass is the first Zelda game to hit the system. The 
 good news is that it was worth the wait. Phantom Hourglass is essentially a sequel to the GameCube 
 Zelda adventure The Wind Waker. It retains the art style, surrounding world, and plot of that game, 
 but it revamps the mechanics for DS use. The result is a game that is unmistakably Zelda, with 
 its perilous dungeons, tricky puzzles, and engaging boss battles; at the same time, Phantom Hourglass 
 is a unique and innovative entry in the series due largely to its exclusively touch-screen-based 
 control scheme. Everything you do in the game involves taps and swipes of the stylus, from traditional 
 fights and puzzles, to new and specialized functions that really change the way you think about 
 playing a Zelda game.  

           There aren't very many proper sequels in the Zelda universe, but Phantom Hourglass directly 
 follows up on The Wind Waker, and does a great job of it, at that.      

  Phantom Hourglass picks up almost directly where Wind Waker left off. Link is sailing the high 
 seas with his pirate pals, including Tetra, who has forsaken her Zelda namesake and returned to 
 her roguish ways. At the moment, the crew is on the hunt for a fabled ghost ship, one that purportedly 
 contains a great treasure but also has a nasty habit of making people disappear. Of course, the 
 ship magically appears, and Tetra bounds off to search it. Unfortunately, a shrill scream signals 
 that something's gone wrong, and the ghost ship departs into a thicket of fog. Link leaps after 
 it but ends up in the drink, and he eventually washes up on the shore of a populated island. This 
 is how the game explains away the absence of Link's abilities and items, despite the fact that 
 the game takes place just after Wind Waker chronologically.  

  Upon awakening on the island, you're greeted by an amnesiac fairy who takes you to a kindly old 
 man who explains a thing or two regarding the ghost ship. Though he warns you away from getting 
 into such business, minutes later you've got a sword in your hand and you're learning the basics 
 of combat. Not that there's a ton to learn, mind you. To make a Zelda game on the DS work, the 
 control mechanics have been simplified to rely only on taps and movements via the stylus on the 
 touch screen. Moving Link requires you to simply drag the stylus in the direction you want to go. 
 You tap an enemy to lunge at it with a slash, do a quick swiping movement to execute a broader 
 slash, and draw circles around Link to perform the spin attack. You also have the ability to roll 
 by drawing small circles at the opposite end of the screen. All of this sounds pretty simple and 
 works about as well as you'd hope, apart from a few moments when you may roll in the wrong direction 
 (and off a cliff) , or accidentally slash something when you're just trying to turn around. However, 
 most of these small gaffes are relatively harmless, and by and large, the responsiveness of the 
 controls is spot-on.  

  The game probably wouldn't be very interesting if all you did was run around and tap on bad guys 
 to kill them. Fortunately, there's a great deal more to it than that. Apart from your basic sword 
 combat, you'll also find yourself messing around with some other DS-centric mechanics, like blowing 
 or shouting into the microphone for various reasons. Additionally, you will pick up many of Link's 
 trademark items throughout the game -- such as bombs, bombchus (which are little mobile bombs that 
 scurry around) , the bow and arrow, the boomerang, and the hookshot -- and you'll often have to use 
 them to set up various enemies for the kill. These items behave just as you remember them, though 
 with a number of DS-specific mechanical twists that give them whole new life. For instance, with 
 the boomerang, you can now draw with the stylus the path you want it to take. The same goes for 
 bombchus, who will follow your exact drawn path to any target. The hookshot can be used like normal 
 to help Link leap across open crevices, as a tightrope to walk between two ledges, and as a slingshot 
 to launch Link across wide gaps or repel enemy fire.  

  These items all tie directly into the game's dungeon and puzzle design. Though not as markedly 
 complex as some of Link's previous adventures, Phantom Hourglass contains several challenging and 
 fun dungeons to traipse through, all of which contain a number of tricky puzzles that require some 
 creative item usage. Experienced Zelda fans may find Phantom Hourglass' dungeons to be less of 
 an endeavor than other games in the series, simply because these dungeons don't rely as heavily 
 on elaborate bouts of backtracking and generally aren't enormous in size. That doesn't mean the 
 dungeons aren't fun to solve, mind you. They might not be quite as epic as other Zelda games, but 
 there are plenty of engaging and periodically perplexing puzzles to solve along the way, as well 
 as some truly exciting boss battles that often make stellar use of both screens on the DS.  

           The stylus controls might rub a few people the wrong way initially, but over the course 
 of the game, you'll see how truly innovative they are.      

  Dungeons would probably be even tougher to deal with if it weren't for the fact that you can now 
 write notes and draw pathways on your dungeon maps. It sounds like a small addition at first, but 
 as you play, you'll discover it's actually one of the most revolutionary features in a Zelda game 
 since, well, ever. Simply being able to sketch pathways over invisible platforms and keep a detailed 
 track of which doors you've hit, which switches need to be hit in what order, and the like, is 
 a huge boon and eliminates a lot of aimless wandering from the equation.  

  Interestingly enough, you get your dungeon and island maps from the very moment you step foot in 
 or on them, though you do have to track down sea charts to open up new areas of the world. Given 
 that this is a Wind Waker sequel, you will be doing a fair amount of sailing from island to island, 
 but unlike Wind Waker, it's not quite as involved a process. You simply draw a route on your map, 
 and the ship sails there automatically. Over time you'll gain a cannon to fight off sea creatures 
 and pirates (and the occasional sea monster boss) as well as a grappling arm to salvage treasure. 
 Picking up treasure is actually a minigame in itself, in that you have to guide the arm down to 
 the depths and back again without hitting mines that are scattered about.     

  Sailing was the big thing that some folks felt dragged down Wind Waker significantly. It's much 
 easier and less time-consuming here, so that issue is pretty much nonexistent. However, that doesn't 
 mean the game is totally devoid of pacing problems. The main culprit is the Temple of the Ocean 
 King, the very first dungeon you enter, and one that you will have to come back to several times 
 throughout the game. It's not a bad dungeon by itself, and in fact is probably the most overtly 
 challenging of them all due to the fact that the phantoms that walk its halls are invincible and 
 the temple itself will literally suck the life out of you. To make it through, you need to stand 
 in a safe spot or have the Phantom Hourglass handy (an item that protects you for as long as there 
 is sand at the top of the glass) .  

           The battle mode isn't exactly going to set the world on fire, but it's a fun little diversion. 

  The problem is that each time you come back, you have to bust through the same levels you beat 
 the previous time around to get to the next section of the temple. Items you acquire later in the 
 game, such as bombs and the hookshot, make getting around a bit easier on subsequent visits, and 
 at the halfway mark of the game, you do get a save point that lets you bypass the first half of 
 the temple and skip down to the second half. Regardless, you'll still be replaying those later 
 levels as the game goes on. It's just one of those tedious things that feel like artificial lengthening 
 of the game more than anything else.  

  Nevertheless, apart from that one fault, Phantom Hourglass' main quest is a deeply engaging adventure 
 that gives you plenty to do throughout. You can probably finish the quest in about 14-15 hours 
 if you don't hunt around for all the various uncharted islands and sunken treasure chests scattered 
 about the world, but you should, because there's some neat stuff to find.  

  Once you're done with the game, there is actually a multiplayer mode you can check out. If you 
 ever played Pac-Man vs. on the GameCube (or, more recently, on the DS in Namco Museum DS) , this 
 mode might seem slightly familiar to you. One player controls Link, and the opponent has control 
 over several phantoms that can be guided by drawing paths for them with the stylus. Link has to 
 try to collect as many triforce shards as he can and bring them to his base, though he slows down 
 considerably while carrying shards. If a phantom reaches him, his turn is up, but if he reaches 
 a safe zone, the phantoms lose sight of him. This goes back and forth with players taking turns 
 on each side for multiple rounds, and the player with the most shards at the end wins. It's not 
 a spectacular mode by any means, but it's amusing enough as a distraction, and it can be played 
 online against players worldwide. In the few games we tried against mostly Japanese players, performance 
 seemed quite solid, with no noticeable lag.  

  The graphics, on the other hand, are extremely noticeable. It might be hard to believe that Nintendo 
 would be able to shrink down a game as gorgeous-looking as The Wind Waker, but that's just what 
 it has done here for the DS. Of course, some sacrifices have been made. Character models aren't 
 quite as sharp or colorful, and the world itself isn't nearly as large. But you still inhabit a 
 sizeable world, and everything in it looks spectacular. From the goofy animations and facial expressions 
 of the characters, to the beautiful scenery as you sail around the ocean, this is top-tier work 
 as far as graphics and artistic design on the DS are concerned. One thing to note is that when 
 you're wandering through islands and dungeons, everything is handled with a sort of top-down perspective, 
 not unlike some of the older Zelda games. All the characters and environments are 3D, but the fixed 
 camera angle does a great job of framing the action.  

           There really isn't a better-looking DS game than Phantom Hourglass.      

  There isn't 
 any voice acting in Phantom Hourglass, but you do get plenty of funny and enjoyable text dialogue 
 to read through. There are lots of memorable characters in the game, and the lack of voice samples 
 isn't much of a hindrance because the expressions on their faces and the great dialogue get the 
 point across. The soundtrack isn't exactly the most memorable of all Zelda scores, but there are 
 plenty of familiar-sounding tunes to accompany each sequence that fans are sure to appreciate. 

  Ultimately, The Legend of Zelda: Phantom Hourglass is a superb effort and pretty much what you 
 would want from a first entry in the series on the DS. It's got a few pacing problems, and those 
 who demand traditional control schemes will probably be turned off by this game's control methodology. 
 But really, even if you're convinced you hate the notion of touch-screen controls, you owe it to 
 yourself to give this game a try. Phantom Hourglass implements its control mechanics so seamlessly 
 into the standard Zelda game design that it's hard to imagine anyone not appreciating it on some 
 level. There are few games on the DS that take advantage of the touch-screen technology as well 
 as Phantom Hourglass does. It's a must-play for any DS owner.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (524 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: sagax03
Rating: 9.5
Date: Apr 15, 2009 12:55 pm PT
Review:  One thing about PH is that its the first portable 3d zelda title, and it has windwakers story charm 
 and everything cute, but lets see my review into why I think this is the 2nd best portable zelda 
 game (First being minish cap) , so lets go!
  
  Story-After windwaker when hyrule has been locked toon link is sailing with tetra/toon zelda in 
 the seas on adventure, on there way they encounter a ghost ship where Tetra/Toon zelda is captured 
 and is being held captive, link tries to get onto the ship but falls and becomes unconsius (Funny 
 how to pirates didnt save him) and lands on a small island, there he meets the 4th brand of navi 
 (First being the navi in OOT the other being in MM and the well not really a navi, but the menu 
 screen navi in TP, also keep in mind that this is toon links first navi) this navi talks like the 
 first two and is even thought of as a humen being that navi has a grandpa which has a sword hidden 
 in a cave link goes gets the sword buys a shield after meeting after saving this pirate guy called 
 uh.. i forgot :P well hes sort of a coward he has a boat which you go on and after saving a fortune 
 teller link goes throw diffrent islands until he goes back to the temple of the ocean king where 
 he gets the phantom hourglass and the story continues from there. Its awsome and unique but lacks 
 some depth to it.
  A-Superb-9.5.
  
  
  Gameplay-The dungeons are very easy in PH mostly because miyamoto wanted players to get into the 
 zelda franchise the dungeons do lack challenge the most hardcore zelda fan can beat them in 10-20 
 minutes unlike other zelda games where dungeons take like an hour to beat.... while new players 
 will be able to clear them in roughly 30 minutes (Trust me my little cousin whos 8 can do it) the 
 exception is the temple of the ocean king which you will be returning to get varius items and progress 
 in the story, know in my opionion for a game for dungeons so easy i think there shouldve MORE backtracking 
 seriously the ocean king gets repetitive after a while and i really wish the other dungeons had 
 more of a purpose, and really i really wish there actually WAS an ocean king -_- what a let down...... 
 other than that you get a fair amount of items for link AND your boat in Windwaker you used the 
 red lion boat to JUST sail around, but HERE you need the boat to jump obsticles destroy HUGE boulders 
 and other things which is awsome. The control is ALL touch, which is what i actually wanted. SOOO 
 in short PHS gameplay is basscily pick up and play and it is AWSOME!
  A-Superb-9.5.
  
  
  Music/Sound-no voice acting like in EVERY zelda game..... which is okay, and like well the music 
 is well done and very catchy nice nintendo.......
  a-Superb-9.5.
  
  
  Multiplayer- One suprising element is the extremly funa AND addicting multiplayer, when its your 
 turn you have to move link around to get the triforce shards and get them to your side, when its 
 the other players turn you move the phantoms to catch the player, its fun, and theres an online 
 mode as well, but the bad thing about the online is.... that if you get paired up with a 10 year 
 old kid it would be kinda... unfair..... my rank is at A by the way ^^.
  A-Superb-9.5.
  
  
  Graphics/Desgin- For a 64 bit game it definitly DOESNT look better than the windwaker... well 
 windwaker is the best looking zelda game but... anyway for a 64 bit game this looks nice there are 
 some rough textures here and there and link looks a tad to the wierd side (At least he doesnt look 
 like a girl like he did in TP) .
  A-Superb-9.0.
  
  
  Overall-Legend of zelda: Phantom hourglass is a worth edition to any DS owners libary its fun, intoative 
 and smart, though i say pick up minsh cap before this i think its still excellent!
  A-Superb-9.5.
  Overall-Superb.
  
  Next review: Halo 3
  Last Review: Yoshis island DS. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DMLSLAT
Rating: 9.5
Date: Apr 13, 2009 5:54 pm PT
Review:  The Good: Excellent graphics; all-new music; the most revolutionary control scheme in years on 
 a handheld; a refreshingly unique story among Zelda games; a cool new map system that completely 
 changes puzzle solving; a huge world to explore; fun new multiplayer.
  
  The Bad: Pacing is awkward, especially with level design; the Temple of the Ocean King is just 
 plain annoying, and there's no way around it.
  
  Zelda's come a long way. A 1987 classic with just a couple buttons, a kid wearing green and a funny 
 hat, and a giant world called Hyrule with secrets waiting to be found launched one of the biggest 
 gaming franchises in history. More recognizable than any Nintendo character save Mario, Link's 
 new quest to save the princess always sells millions of copies and each is eagerly anticipated.
 
  
  American gamers didn't appreciate Wind Waker as expected, because many thought the game looked 
 too 'childish.' The fact is that gameplay and fun, not graphics, make a good game. So Wind Waker, 
 the first 3-D Zelda Eiji Aonuma, the new Zelda director, had the time to put his heart and soul 
 into, went underappreciated. Because of the 'disappointment' of his first big Zelda game, Nintendo's 
 fanbase slowly disintegrated, despite how good the game actually was, not to mention the strong 
 Metroid Prime franchise, Super Smash Bros., and Capcom's support.
  
  So, while it was a natural decision to make the next console Zelda look more mature, and in the 
 fashion of the famous Ocarina of Time, Aonuma still wanted to go back to the new world on the sea 
 he'd created. This leads us to the DS sequel to Wind Waker, Phantom Hourglass.
  
  The game begins by going over the story arc of Wind Waker, as this game occurs not long after its 
 conclusion. Tetra the pirate was revealed to be Princess Zelda, and the young-yet-heroic Link saved 
 her from the clutches of Ganondorf. Now they're out at sea with the other pirates, when Tetra tries 
 exploring what appears to be a Ghost Ship (looking for treasure) , but screams when she gets on 
 the boat. Link chases after her only to fall into the sea, where he gets lost.
  
  When Link comes to on Mercay Island, he sets out on a quest to save Tetra from the Ghost Ship, 
 which can only be done with the help of the three Fairy Spirits of Courage, Wisdom and Power. Only 
 after finding and rescuing them and reviving the power of the Ocean King, protector of the sea, 
 can Link face the monster controlling the Ghost Ship: Bellum. This giant squid monstrosity controls 
 Phantoms that are patrolling the Temple of the Ocean King, which houses in it directions to the 
 spirits and sea charts that can guide Link.
  
  The hero must journey into this temple multiple times to find his course, utilizing the Phantom 
 Hourglass to do it. This weapon allows him to survive the insides of the temple for a limited time 
 so he can hunt down a weapon powerful enough to fight the Phantoms and Bellum and finally save 
 Zelda.
  
  The graphics in the game, as expected from a first party Nintendo title, are some of the best on 
 the system. The quality, in fact, will remind you of Ocarina of Time and Majora's Mask from the 
 N64.
  
  The cartoon art style from Wind Waker is back, and despite the complaints of American gamers, these 
 are wonderful. I certainly have no issues with them, as said, because it doesn't matter what age 
 group the game is shooting for, it's whether it's any good or not. And it's certainly good.
  
  The music is as high quality as you'd expect from Zelda. Many tunes sound familiar, especially 
 if you've played Wind Waker, but not in a bad way. They're still all fun and, as far as I know, 
 completely new.
  
  The sound effects are all great, and Ciela, your fairy (and also the cursor for your stylus) speaks 
 in the same voice Navi did, but probably won't bug you as much. Other characters don't have any 
 voice acting going for them, but Zelda's been like that for awhile... 20 years, actually... and 
 it's not expected on a handheld.
  
  Still, as mentioned in most Twilight Princess reviews, voice acting needs to come soon to keep 
 Zelda gaming modern. Link, on the other hand, is at his best as a heroic mute.
  
  The gameplay is where Phantom Hourglass truly shines. The control scheme doesn't utilize a single 
 button. Instead, you can hit a couple menus on the screen and equip items with a button in the 
 top of the screen, but moving Link, using all those items, talking, and every other function is 
 stylus-only.
  
  Nintendo's new plan to make games that can appeal to hardcore and new gamers simultaneously is 
 clearly involved in this game. The game's puzzles are still challenging and there's plenty to do 
 outside the main quest that's even more difficult, but the control scheme can be gotten into by 
 anyone. Yet that's not a bad thing, as it's easily the best control scheme I've ever used on a 
 handheld.
  
  Zelda is known for this type of revolutionary ideas, and pulling them off without flaw. The first 
 Zelda invented the bird's eye view perspective, Ocarina of Time invented the targeting system to 
 add fun and less complication to battle, and Twilight Princess was the first to execute aiming 
 with the Wiimote, well. But this is one of the biggest revolutions in gaming history, not even 
 using one button.
  
  The story is still all about saving the princess, but it's not a run-of-the-mill Zelda story either. 
 While most old Zelda titles followed the same plan, the games are fortunately changing things up. 
 Wind Waker used the sea and a host of unique new characters to mix up the plot. Twilight Princess 
 involved the Twili and focused on an entirely new species, and a new main enemy, and changed Zelda 
 and Ganondorf's positions in the story.
  
  Phantom Hourglass is more of a reminder of Majora's Mask. Neither follows the traditional plan 
 of battling Ganondorf, both are a sequel, and both do things no one would expect. Phantom Hourglass 
 does have saving the princess to it, unlike Majora's Mask, but it uses a completely unique plot. 
 The Triforce isn't incorporated, and neither is anything involving the Sacred Realm, the Master 
 Sword, or Sages, which are generally Zelda staples. Instead, the legend of the Ocean King and Bellum, 
 his adversary, creates a fresh new plotline for the game during your quest for the girl.
  
  It's this originality that I focus on so much because Phantom Hourglass is chalk full of it. You 
 can now customize your ship, and control it by charting a course, than shoot bombs at enemies while 
 you go. You swing your sword by slashing the screen, aim your bow with the stylus, chart your boomerang's 
 path while holding the stylus on the screen, and make a path for your bombchus. It all makes the 
 game tons better.
  
  The multiplayer isn't as good as Four Swords, but it's definitely fun. Competing for Force Gems 
 against your friends, or on Wi-Fi, and controlling three Phantoms simultaneously is a big change, 
 even from Zelda multiplayer, which there isn't much of.
  
  In fact, since the game is extremely long with all the sidequests (especially making the best ship 
 you can) , there's not much to complain about.
  
  The only major gripe is, infamously, the Temple of the Ocean King. It involves a lot of sneaking, 
 you're timed, and you'll be chased by invincible Phantoms all but the last time through. Well, 
 there are some ways to kill them or stun them before then, but it stills gets tiresome since you 
 go in either five or six times, going through the same part over and over. However, the game will 
 teach you to use the map effectively by doing this, which is an important aspect to it.
  
  I can't call it a good part to the game, but it's not as awful as generally believed. It's easy 
 to fly through it up till the new parts, and get ship parts on your way, if you do your best with 
 the map. You can even skip one of the trips through (you can get the third and fourth sea charts 
 at the same time) . But it is more bad than good.
  
  The other levels are also very short, to balance out that the Temple of the Ocean King is repeated 
 so often. That's unfortunate, because the other levels are a lot of fun. They have tons of unique 
 puzzles and often involve species that are either familiar or never before seen in the Zelda franchise.
 
  
  So generally, the level design is unevenly paced, a moderately large complaint, and makes the game 
 feel like it was rushed to store shelves a little bit.
  
  But really, it's the only complaint to be had. The game is still tons of fun. The Temple of the 
 Ocean King often makes people want to lower the score, but the point is that it's easy if done 
 right, and it comes back to bite you if you mess up.
  
  I'm not saying it's a good part of the game, it's certainly the worst, but it's not as awful as 
 believed. Plus, there's so much else to do outside of the temples, and in multiplayer, that it 
 can give you a break from that particular issue. Phantom Hourglass has the right to be called one 
 of the best on DS for a reason, and the best handheld Zelda game ever made. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sh811a
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 12, 2009 6:54 pm PT
Review:  The Zelda video game series is my second favorate video game series ever, as time goes on it always 
 keeps getting better and better, once again the Zelda series doesn't disappoint me. 
  
  The story is pritty much your standard Zelda adventures story but the series was never entirely 
 know for plot and story in fact it's never entirely concerned about it, it always about just the 
 journey itself and what a journey it is.
  
  The graphics some people may disagree with me personal I think their actually great, the way the 
 characters are animated reminds of graphic novel art and I think really helps give the game the 
 right atmosphere. But most of all the real highlight in that is in both the enviorment and dungen 
 level designs which always create a sense of vastness and mystery. I always can't wait to explore 
 or go though that area I haven't ventured to yet, or uncover the next new secret or solve a certain 
 puzzle. 
  
  But what really makes this Zelda game different from the others is in it's new control scheme which 
 is in using the touch screen function. The controls are amazingly solid, they might seem a little 
 awkward to some at first since most of us Zelda veterans are use to playing Zelda on the usual 
 standard D Pad and buttons in this game you use the stylus. But trust me you'll be an ace at the 
 controls in fact I felt it made the game better than ever in fact fit like a glove when you think 
 about the nature of the series; because it's more interactive from how you move the character, 
 handle inventory, interact with your enviorment, using certain tools; or even in a few of the boss 
 battles the best kind for me were when two of the screens were involved this might also take some 
 time to get use to but trust me you'll master it in no time and I though it made the battles all 
 the more interesting. This game just makes the best use of all of the DS systems functions which 
 is why Zelda truely translated well for this system.
  
  I really have nothing bad to say about the game, though I did feel that it had a little of that 
 same fundamental problem some of the GTA games I felt had sometimes had where you would sometimes 
 have to backtrack from point A and B in those ship parts I though sort of slowed things down a 
 bit mainly due to the distance it took to get there first time around. But that's a minor problem 
 I can get past and it doesn't happen much so not much to complan about.
  
  This game has became one of my favorates in the series, it was it's first DS outing and I hope 
 it won't be it's last. Zelda: Phantom Hourglass truely has the touch. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Brianfox1
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 12, 2009 11:28 am PT
Review:  The Legend of Zelda: Phantom Hourglass
  The Legend of Zelda Phantom Hourglass isn't addictive but it sure is fun. It is the sequel of one 
 the best Zelda games The Legend of Zelda: Wind Waker. One thing this game has that no other Zelda 
 game has is Wi-Fi. You can battle other people in battle mode. You can battle friends by download 
 play, multiplayer, or Nintendo Wi-Fi. You have to place power gems onto your colored area of the 
 floor. There is one problem that will make some people mad is that all Zelda games let you have 
 three saves this one only lets you have two. This is one of the Zelda games that are portable so 
 no matter where you go you'll be able to play this. You can buy this game for a good price it is 
 $34 like most DS games. Bottom line is that you should just go out and buy this game. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Qwikman
Rating: 8.5
Date: Apr 3, 2009 11:21 pm PT
Review:  Just a few years ago, I was introduced to the Legend of Zelda by Super Smash Bros. Melee. So, I 
 bought the Wind Waker. Just plain Amazing. Then, the sequel came out in 2007, and I had VERY high 
 expectations. (FYI, this is the sequel for u ppl who don't kno, but I assume you knew that.) This 
 game met most of them, but not all of them. 
  
  PLOT: After the events of WW, Link and Tetra (Zelda) are having the time of their lives with the 
 pirate crew, just cruising the sea. Apparently, they come across a Ghost Ship, which sends Tetra 
 and Link to a different dimension, or something. So, Link starts his adventure again- this time 
 to find Tetra. Unfortunately, Tetra's alter ego is never mentioned in the game's plot. Eventually 
 Link finds some valuable allies like a ship captain and gorons and an old man. Like all handheld 
 Zeldas thus far, there is barely any mention of Ganon or his goonies. (gotta like that word) 8/10
 
  
  GAMEPLAY: This is the game's high point. PH utilizes ALL of the DS/ DS Lite's capabilities, even 
 using the DS's closing mechanism in one point of the game. All of the action is done by using the 
 stylus. And surprisingly, it works. Very well, actually. Except the ability to roll, the game's 
 controls are smooth and superb. My only complaint is that the game is a little short compared to 
 games like Twilight Princess and Wind Waker. The boss fights are a little easy too. There are also 
 a few illogical things in the game. One example is that in Twilight Princess, you must use the 
 bow and arrow to cut far-away ropes to open new paths. Ironicly, in this game, you must shoot an 
 arrow at a your grappling rope, which then bounces off it to hit some shy eye-switches in the ice 
 temple. (What I mean to say is that arrows bounce off ropes rather than cut them in this game) 
 Great gameplay, though. 9/10
  
  MUSIC: This is where the game needs improvement. The music is usually of high quality in recent 
 Zelda games. This game is an exception, and big one at that. The music is the same for EVERY dungeon, 
 which gets irritating VERY fast. The only score that is appreciable is the one that plays when 
 out at sea, which sounds a bit like Wind Waker's music. The sound effects are also a little irritating, 
 too. 5/10
  
  GRAPHICS: This is another of the game's high points. The graphics and cutscenes are truly amazing 
 for the DS, and top-notch. The game is presented in classic top-down perspective, but rendered 
 in 3D, just like how they did with Final Fantasy for the DS. 10/10
  
  It's a great game, but could use improvement in the music and plot departments. Nevertheless, it's 
 one of my favorite games for the DS, still. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bonvoyage10122
Rating: 8.5
Date: Apr 2, 2009 9:48 am PT
Review:  Many review sites (including gamespot) are saying Phantom Hourglass is "great" and has "intuitive 
 controls"... I would only agree with the intuitive controls bit. Yes, it is great they made a Zelda 
 for the DS, but it isn't very "great" compared to the rest of the series. Also, the cell-shaded 
 art style get old really fast. Towards the end of the game I just got fed up and wend to play Twilight 
 Princess. I know you can't really compare a DS and Wii game... but Phantom Hourglass could have 
 fixed a few things in the almost bland look of the characters and environments. Everything just 
 seemed to be copied and pasted for EVERY DUNGEON with just a different layout and puzzles. Many 
 PH fanboys will probably get all defensive with their PH cell-shaded crap, but whatever.
  In my opinion, PH is good for someone who is bored and doesn't care if the graphics look like s*it. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: JebranRush
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 18, 2009 12:56 pm PT
Review:  The Good: 
  Great controls, Great puzzle and dungeon design, Great graphics and artistic design, Fabulous sound 
 quality and good soundtrack, Balanced difficulty level, Nice attempt at multiplayer
  
  The Bad: 
  Multiplayer is a nice distraction but not much else, Sailing can be a bit tedious 
 sometimes, Temple of the Ocean King isn't much fun the 3rd or 4th time going through it
  
  
  The Legend of Zelda: Phantom Hourglass is the acclaimed sequel to the publicly mixed received 
 Wind Waker (although well liked by critics) . Although Wind Waker was an incredible game, it's art 
 style that was so different turned people off immediately and some say the games difficulty and 
 some other minor problems make the experience less of what it could have been. Despite those feeble 
 complaints, Nintendo made a sequel to it. Only, they made it for the DS instead of the Gamecube 
 or Wii. Why they did this? It's to really have some fun with the series and mix it up a bit. With 
 all touch controlled actions, great technical power, and a good plot, Phantom Hourglass delivers 
 in almost every aspect.
  
  The game starts you off sailing alongside the pirate Tetra, who you discovered in Wind Waker was 
 Princess Zelda. The quest they're on is trying to uncover the mysteries of the Ghost Ship that 
 haunts the seas. You finally find it, and through a short series of events, you find yourself in 
 a different world. Tetra is gone, you've washed ashore a strange island, and an odd fairy named 
 Ciela wakes you. From here is where the game starts.
  
  Because of the game's very short learning curve, this game is accessible to just about anyone. 
 You soon find yourself learning how to run around, roll, swing a sword, and interact with different 
 objects and people. The touch controls are smooth and fluid and quite comfortable to use. That's 
 not to say the D-Pad and other buttons are rendered useless because they aren't, although they 
 serve a small purpose. The buttons on the DS can be used to quickly open up the items bar, menu 
 bar, or map. It's fairly convenient but all of this can be accessed almost just as quick through 
 the touch screen, but it's a nice touch anyway.
  
  The dungeon and puzzle design continues the Zelda franchise's trademark genius. The puzzles are 
 all quite clever. Some of them can be a bit difficult but some can also be quite easy. Each puzzle 
 in dungeons uses items you collect very nicely. There's not really an inconsistency to the difficulty 
 though, which is good. Nintendo seems to have found a great balance of easy and hard so as not 
 to alienate anybody. Both casuals and hardcore gamers will likely continue to play this game without 
 giving up in frustration or walking away because of the incredible ease.
  
  Even though the puzzle and dungeon layouts are great, there's one dungeon in particular that is 
 a bit irritating. This temple, known as the Temple of the Ocean King, is one where you will continue 
 to come back several times and repeat puzzles again and again while further delving deeper into 
 it each time you come back. This is quite tedious and seems a bit unnecessary. This specific dungeon 
 is also the only one where there is a time limit to it. This adds a nice bit of strategy and urgency 
 to it. This will also challenge players to come back to the dungeon and beat their time, although 
 they probably won't want to.
  
  Also, sailing around the map can be a bit tedious at times. While there are some monsters that 
 pop up that you must blast with your cannon, it isn't always all that fun. Even so, you can later 
 gain the ability to warp to certain points on the map which make traveling easier and more fun. 
 Besides, the scenery is quite nice.
  
  The graphics are a technical showpiece for the DS. The game continues to use the same artistic 
 view as Wind Waker but, since it's on the DS, it looks a bit worse. Still, it seems to fit so perfectly 
 on the DS. Everything leaks of charm and quality. The game is not afraid to use lots of bright 
 colours that really are a true feast for the eyes. Everything just seamlessly blends together very 
 nicely and it does this without any slowdown.
  
  The sound quality is no less than the graphical quality. You will hear some familiar chimes and 
 tunes from Wind Waker and other past Zelda games, but you will also hear some new tunes and sounds 
 that are both catchy and fresh. 
  
  So, in the end, the game is still essentially a Zelda game but with new game play elements and 
 some all new features, this entry into the Zelda series is a very welcome one. The all touch based 
 controls are great and the whole game makes full of the DS's power and capabilities. There is little 
 reason not to get Phantom Hourglass. It's got lots of extra's and excellent replayability, great 
 graphics and sound quality, clever and ingenious puzzles, and a good story with some memorable 
 characters.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Nintend0-BuDDy
Rating: 8.5
Date: Mar 16, 2009 5:23 pm PT
Review:  The Legend of Zelda: Phantom Hourglass is the first Zelda game to come out for DS. It also happens 
 to be a "sequel" to Wind Waker for Gamecube. Why do I have sequel in quotes? Because it hardly 
 is. 
  
  STORY:
  The Legend of Zelda: Phantom Hourglass is a sequel to Wind Waker for Gamecube, as mentioned above. 
 But, as a sequel it really fails miserably. The only characters that return are Link and Tetra. 
 In fact, Zelda is only mentioned in the opening cut scene, which is a poor, half-untrue, recap 
 of Wind Waker. Ganon, The King, and just about every other important character from the previous 
 game are completely left out. So technically it's a sequel with Wind Waker's Link and Tetra still 
 intact.
  
  So let's get on with the real story. Link and Tetra are on their Pirate Ship looking for... who 
 knows what, when they stumble upon the mysterious Ghost Ship, which Tetra want's to check out. 
 So she tries to jump onto it, and falls. Link dives in to save her, only to realize that she has 
 been sucked in by a dark force. Ooooh. So Link drifts of to a far away island, and is awoken by 
 Navi's alleged offspring, Celia (fanboy's that is not true, and don't flame me) . And they go off 
 on an adventure to rescue Tetra. So they go find a sailor named Linebeck and set sail to find the 
 Ghost Ship. Overall, the story is good, even better if you look at it after forgetting that Wind 
 Waker happened, which is really what Nintendo plans for hardcore Zelda fans to do, if they want 
 the full effect of this game's story. I had to "tisk, tisk" at Nintendo for one thing. Whenever 
 Link tells anyone about Tetra he never refers to her as Zelda. I'm sure that people would have 
 taken him more seriously if he, er, Ceila told people that "Princess Zelda has been obducted by 
 the Ghost Ship", ugh, whatever.
  
  GAMEPLAY:
  
  The game is entirely played on the touch screen, and it plays well. Actually, I believe that Phantom 
 Hourglass may have the greatest touch screen controls on DS. Exploration in dungeons and at sea 
 is top notch, I should also mention that compared to Wind Waker's ocean, Phantom Hourglasses is 
 much smaller, which is good. The touch screen weapon abilities are very well designed, never did 
 I feel cramped while throwing the boomerang or firing the bow. Sailing on the ship is also very 
 fun, drawing a path is a a great way to navigate, and its WAY easier to salvage treasure from the 
 bottom of the sea (the Salvage Arm mini-game is awesome) . Overall, every gameplay aspect of Phantom 
 Hourglass is flawless.
  
  Music:
  
  Alright, so usually Zelda games are well known for their music. Phantom Hourglass is an exception. 
 The soundtrack is very bland, every dungeon has the same tune, and the Zelda theme can only be 
 heard in the multiplayer game (by the way, multiplayer is great, addictive fun.) . The music is 
 a let down.
  
  Overall, Phantom Hourglass is a great attempt for Nintendo to place Zelda on DS. The gameplay is 
 terrific, with great exploration and top notch touch screen movement and puzzles. Phantom Hourglass 
 is good fun... considering you forgot your love/didn't care for Wind Waker's story :)
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: mikeian2014
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 15, 2009 6:40 am PT
Review:  People accuse this game of being to short and I agree but the gameplay and graphics especially 
 for a DS game is awesome and the story is one of the best so far! But I gave this game a 9.5 because 
 it is to short. Sadly that's what keeps this game from being perfect while for some people this 
 game provides months of entertainment I got mine 3 months ago and find myself beating it for the 
 6th time in a row! But I never do get sick of it link never ceases to amuse. I've collected every 
 single ship part and treasure in the game. So this is what I think about zelda: phantom hourglass. 
 I would suggest this is in everyones game collection! It is highly entertaining. So go out and 
 get yourself a copy today. As far as bosses go I counted probably around 12. but don't get me started 
 on the ocean king's temple that pisses me off no matter how many times I play it still frustrates 
 the hell out of me so much I want to chuke my DS. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mastersword101
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 12, 2009 4:04 pm PT
Review:  Zelda games have never failed to impress me. However, I feel that anyone who plays this game will 
 become attached to it, and fascintated by its creativity. It is unlike any other Zelda game I have 
 ever seen. I have not played the Wind Waker but I heard that it is fairly similar to this game. 
 From what I heard, The Legend of Zelda: Phantom Hourglass ds is a step-up from the Wind Waker based 
 on the time it takes to sail from island to island. 
  
  One of Phantom Hourglass's distinct features is that you can customize your ship and play against 
 over players over wifi connection (which can be lots of fun, but a lot of people stop playing against 
 you when they find out that they are losing, which can get annoying)
  
  The boss battles are cool considering that they include both screens of your ds. For me, personally, 
 the boss battle on Goron Island was my fav. because you can control a goron and use it to help 
 you in your fight.
  
  This game should be bought by anyone who is a Legend of Zelda fan.
  
  This game should have been longer, but I still think it deserves a 10/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Amazement
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 11, 2009 1:21 pm PT
Review:  The story starts off basically where Wind Waker left off. Link and Tetra are on their ship, and 
 the crew starts telling
  stories about a rumored 'Ghost Ship' that's been making ships dissapear across the seas. However, 
 rumor also has it that a
  huge treasure lies in this Ghost Ship. Tetra, the person that she is, doesn't believe the stories 
 of this haunting, but is
  excited that there could be treasure on board.
  
  While they were sailing, they happened to come across the Ghost Ship. The Ghost Ship pulls up to 
 Tetra's ship, and Tetra
  climbs on board. A few seconds later, Link and the crew hear her scream. Link heroically jumps 
 onto the Ghost Ship before
  it has time to sail off again, but ends up slipping and falling into the water. The last thing 
 that he remembers before
  waking up is Tetra calling him for help.
  
  When Link wakes up, he finds himself on the shores of a mysterious island, which he's never seen 
 or heard of; Not to mention a dainty fairy is flying around trying to awake him. He learns this 
 fairy's name is Celia, and together the dynamic duo
  venture off on their journey to rescue Tetra from the Ghost Ship.
  
  
  
  The graphics of 
 this game are fairly impressive, the game has the same graphic style as Wind Waker for the Game 
 Cube did.
  ( (Yes, the same squishy marshmellowy Link from WW~) ) The game's graphics are also as good as the 
 Game Cube's, 
  except for being slightly more pixelated. But in the heat of battle, you're really not going to 
 notice that.
  
  
  
  For somebody that isn't used to the DS' touch screen controlls, the first hour or two might be 
 a bit tedious for you, as moving
  and swinging your sword, and almost everything else, is all done with different touch screen motions. 
 Once you get the hang 
  of it, the touch screen controlls become fun to use and definately put the game apart from the 
 classic  action.
  
  
  
  The game has a pretty decent story line -- it's one of those story lines that will keep your fairly 
 interested, but you 
  really don't need to pay much attention to if you're not for the role-playing vibe. It's similar 
 to many Zeldas in the
  sence that you need to collect 'Wisdom', 'Courage' and 'Power'. ( (I'm desperately trying to explain 
 this without spoiling
  anything = =;;) )
  
  And there's the dainty little ( (Often annoying...) ) addition of the Ocean King's Temple, which 
 is where the Phantom Hourglass
  really comes into play. You'll find yourself facing challenges here often, and they get harder 
 as you advance in the story.
  
  
  
  If you're not interested in advancing in your quest for whatever reason, you can play different 
 mini-games that are scattered
  around on different islands on your map. You just need to find them first. 
  
  Or, if mini-games 
 are too infuriating for you, ( (Which would be my case...) ) once you have your salvage arm, you 
 can go treasure hunting to get money and parts to customize your ship with! Your ship is now customizable, 
 you can collect a variety of parts in a variety of themes, and if you collect a nice set, your 
 ship's stamina will increase. ( (Which is really usefull, especially for the battle against the 
 Ghost Ship) )
  
  
  
  This game isn't perfect by any means, but I really didn't find much wrong with it aside from the 
 puzzles and battles being easier than those in most other Zelda games.
  
  This game is admittedly too easy for a person that's played even a few other Zelda games, but it's 
 a game that almost anybody of any age can pick up and enjoy. So I definitely recommend it. :D 
::::::

::::::
UserName: aagarcia100996
Rating: 8
Date: Mar 8, 2009 6:45 pm PT
Review:  Well, this game is pretty good, don't get me wrong, but I still say that the "Wind Waker"is better. The 
 graphics are slightly chunky and the story is great. Now the story goes like this: you start as Link (or 
 whoever you call your character) , a young boy who is a friend of Tetra (or in other words, Princess 
 Zelda) and has been traveling with her for a while and decide to enter waters that are said to have 
 a ship called the ghost ship. When the ghost ship appears Tetra will, of course, bravely board the 
 ship and will be taken away. Then you try to board the ship as it leaves and then end up falling 
 in the waters. Later you'll find yourself lying on a beach with a fairy floating above your head 
 named Ciela. And that is just the start of the great adventure! Anyways, this game is enjoyable and 
 I say that you should buy it. It's just like every other game that it starts to get old and boring 
 sooner than a lot of people like. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Kiro1201
Rating: 8.5
Date: Mar 4, 2009 3:41 pm PT
Review:  I didn't know if the transition to the stylus would be a good move or not but it turned out much 
 better than i thought it would. It is like most of the other zelda games. You run around trying 
 to save the princess and end up having to save the world. First you collect the fairies then the 
 three sacred metals then you get to beat the boss. It's like most other Zelda games. It is set 
 right after windwaker. It has the same classic feel as the others and your basic arsenal of weapons. 
 The puzzles you have to figure out are challenging but fun. So this game isn't for the dumb and 
 dopey. I like being in control of the ship and its cannon. The story was pretty good and the characters 
 were the usual. However the captain of the ship, Lineback, was my favorite character of the game. 
 He was laid back, lazy, and didn't want to get involved in any fighting. He was only interested 
 in treasure. Then in the end he sacrificed himself to save the world. He rocked. But nothing extrodinary 
 really happened. The only real problem i had in the game was when you have to open the door in 
 the ocean temple by putting the crystals in just the right order. How in the world are you supposed 
 to know that unless you look on the internet? I took me a while to figure out but i finally did. 
 The game was good overall. End of story. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: miller278
Rating: 9.5
Date: Feb 28, 2009 10:18 pm PT
Review:  This game is really good. You take control of link (der) and explore this new world as you look 
 for your friend Tetra. The gameplay takes place entirely on the touchscreen, with buttons only 
 being used for shortcuts. Because there is so much touchscreen use, i recommend a screen protector. 
 The dungeons and puzzles are good and the way you use weapons is also really cool, like the boomerang 
 with which you draw its path. the game is a decent size and you'll spend heaps of time with it 
 even after you finish the main game. you can go look for all the fairy gems, all heart containers 
 and complete all the games side quests. The only bad things about this game are continuous trips 
 back to the ocean king temple and a lame final boss. otherwise, its great, make sure you play it 
 if you have a ds. It's a must buy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: matthova
Rating: 8
Date: Feb 28, 2009 9:57 pm PT
Review:  First let me say i am a big zelda fan, so i bought this one without hesitation. The game looks 
 great. Its 3D and all that, its kinda like Link to the Past but only in viewpoint. I like the controls, 
 they're okay once you get used to them. However you kinda wish they would have included another 
 control scheme: without the stylus you cant play. 
  
  The game features some pretty easy dungeons for the most part, with semi challenging boss fights. 
 THen there's my biggest complaint about the game; the temple of the Ocean king. Its straight up 
 annoying. Its basically a stealth aspect b/c you go threw stages with enemies you cant beat and 
 its timed on top of that! To make matters worse you have to go back after beating other dungeons, 
 making it worse. It just seems to me that they didnt really play through that part of the game... i 
 say that because on one trip to the temple you compleete your standard zelda puzzle but those damn 
 phantom enemies get in the way and make it next to impossible.
  
  If you want a fun game with major drawbacks get this game. It doesnt suck at all, just has bad 
 gameplay elements. Also the sailing parts are pretty fun, and the game takes full of advantage 
 of DS's features. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kirby2198
Rating: 9.5
Date: Feb 27, 2009 2:12 pm PT
Review:  This game is very enteraining, enough to keep you distracted for hours. There is a very good story 
 line and controls seems to fit it just right. 
  
  The gameplay itself surly was a new and uniqe thing, enable to use Link, and his weopens with the 
 touch screen. Makeing weopens such as boomerangs easier to aim with. but this game dose have a 
 turn off that is also in Wind Waker, the constant travaling from island to island that are great 
 distant apeart, makeing travaling a bit unbearable at times. 
  
  There is also the Temple of the Ocean King, being forced to repeat the place time and time and 
 time again from the very beginging. Not only is to over done, it is also annoying and time cuncuming. 
 trying to replay the game for the second time may not be worth it. 
  
  ---
  
  The music in the game is actually good, its not annoying and oviuslly matches the theam of certain 
 islands, the traveling music also makes traveling from island to iland a bit bearable. 
  
  ---
  
  The graphics of this game really isint all that great. Nintendo could of done better, 
 insted of useing 16-bit graphics. It's to jagged, the games graphics should of been more Wind Waker 
 looking, Not Ocarina of Time or Majoras mask. 
  
  --- 
  
  The game over all is good and it should be recomended to any huge Zelda fan. The game is simple 
 to use, but also has its own unqie challenges, not to easy, but also not horible difficult. IT 
 also makes an excilent siqual for Wind Waker. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: twilightlullaby
Rating: 8.5
Date: Feb 26, 2009 12:49 pm PT
Review:  Before I begin I will say one thing, I have not totally finished the Wind Waker. Right before the 
 final boss my save corrupted. Sigh. Now I'll begin.
  
  Zelda: The Phantom Hourglass takes place after the Wind Waker when Tetra (aka Princess Zelda) and 
 Link take to the seas. Like most Zelda games, you are able to name your character due to the lack 
 of voice acting. But while sailing, the crew runs into a malevolent "Ghost Ship" who kidnaps Tetra. 
 From there, you'll have to find out the rest.
  
  Graphics: Good gravy! This game has pretty good graphics for a DS game. Pretty much identical to 
 the Wind Waker. And facial styles range from hilarious to shocked. Overall, pretty good.
  
  Sound: The sound effects are the same as the others in the series. Your standard "Item Fanfare" 
 and "Heart Container" are along with others. The music... some was good and others... well, I don't 
 even want to start on the dungeon music. In every dungeon the music was the same. Ditto caves and 
 islands. I only really liked the final boss music. It was just disappointing.
  
  Story: Your standard Zelda plot except without Ganondorf. A new villain comes in this time. Pretty 
 much nothing that interesting. Well, there was this one sidequest with finding the ship captain's 
 old flame but other than that, it falls a little short of what I would have liked.
  
  Overall this was a decent game. I would reccomend borrowing it first though. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dsgba
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 26, 2009 5:02 am PT
Review:  So what if this is my first zelda game. In my opinion I think Zelda is the second best ds game. 
 Jump Ultimate stars is my first. The controls are nice. The gameplay is amazing. Puzzles and tricks 
 are amazing as well. The bosses, bombs, swords, maps, graphics are really really good. This is 
 the best zelda game ever. What you basically try to do is slay monsters with your sword. The graphics 
 are 3-d. Oh yeah the ship is awesome. You actually ride on a ship fire cannons and navigate through 
 weathers, fogs, tornados. Its really fun believe me. The good part is its really really really 
 long!!!!!!! The game took me about 45 hours to complete. You might do it faster if you have played 
 other zelda games or use the walkthrough. I had to use the walkthrough a few times. The sword combos 
 are cool too. Too bad there is only 3. Oh well the rest of the game makes it up for that. If i could 
 give me score above 10 with more sword combos i'd give it a 12 but the sword combos cut it to .............12. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Ycheez
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 18, 2009 10:40 am PT
Review:  A Zelda game on the DS may not sound like fun, man your wrong! even though phantom hourglass has 
 little replay value, the bosses are amazing, screen-filling brutes, each with their own special 
 methods of defeat. The game kicks off after a well-animated cutscene of young Link, and his girlfriend, 
 Tetra, on their not-so-scary pirate ship, after some diolauge, Tetra, jumps on to the ghost ship, 
 a creepy pirate boat where it has fog follow it everywhere it goes. And poor little Link falls 
 into the sea He later washes up on shore to see a fairy flying above him. THis is where the game 
 ofifcially starts. The game featrues reference from the windwaker, and has similar graphics. The 
 ability to customize your ship is a real plus. You will do a lot of your traveling by your trusty 
 ship, the S. S. Linebeck. Overall, the game is definetly worth buying, the wi-fi battles, are very 
 creative, and, well, its another Zelda game!
  
  The final verdict: Buy it 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Asagea_888
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 31, 2009 8:31 pm PT
Review:  If I told you I wasn't a fan of the Legend of Zelda series, you'd have thought I was lying. And 
 you'd be right. My first game in the series was Ocarina of Time, but I have played nearly all of 
 the subsequent entries in the franchise. It's been on every Nintendo platform, so you shouldn't 
 be the least bit surprised about it landing on the DS in the form of a direct sequel to a GameCube 
 favorite -- the Wind Waker. Phantom Hourglass keeps in step with the charm and fun gameplay of its 
 various cousins and introduces an entirely new way to experience it. 
  
  The story picks up where Wind Waker left off. Tetra's gone missing, and this time around, it's 
 the dastardly work of an omniscient ghost ship. Long story short -- our hero Link is separated from 
 his pirate friends, meets a memory-lapsed fairy, meets a cocky ship brigadier, and sets off on 
 the dangerous task in finding the elusive Ghost Ship to save his dear friend. This sets off a chain 
 of events that will lead to much bigger things within the story.
  
  The game is pretty much the same formula you've come to expect. You will explore various dungeons, 
 clash with monsters, collect rupies, gather necessary items; all the things that make Zelda what 
 it is. However, you'll be playing this game exclusively in a way that makes the DS what it is as 
 well -- the Stylus. Using the Stylus and the touch screen, you'll move Link around in a fully 3D 
 world, and you'll also use it to pick up objects, swing your trusty sword, open doors and interact 
 with people. When you're using certain items like boomerangs, you can even draw the boomerang's 
 path of flight. It might take some getting used to, especially when you're forced to fight, but 
 you'll find it works generally well. And you'd better get used to it because there is no option 
 to switch to the traditional control scheme.
  
  Because this is a direct sequel to Wind Waker, you will be navigating a great ocean world peppered 
 with little islands. Your captain Linebeck commandeers an engine-powered boat that will serve as 
 your mode of transport. And sailing the high seas has never been easier on the DS -- you simply draw 
 a path to wherever you want to go on a map, and the boat will take you there -- provided you don't 
 run into obstacles or forced to use a cannon against the ocean's ne'r-do-wells. 
  
  The game also makes liberal use of a unique note-taking system, allowing you to jot down important 
 clues and stuff on a game map that you call on using either the directional pad or by tapping an 
 icon on your lower screen. This is extremely helpful especially if you don't want to fumble with 
 a separate piece of paper or thumb through a strategy guide. Sometimes the game will indirectly 
 remind you to jot down notes, so keep your eyes open when reading important dialog. All in all, 
 you're almost never alone.
  
  The graphics are brilliant, especially considering the limitations of the DS. The quirky visual 
 style is taken directly from Wind Waker and, for the most part, Link and everybody else look just 
 as good as their GameCube counterparts. Dungeon and world designs are a slight departure from previous 
 Zelda games, but by no means are they less interesting. 
  
  Combine all of this with some perplexing challenges, and you have a game totally worthy of the 
 Zelda tradition. If you can deal with only using the stylus to play the game, then you should have 
 no problem breezing all the way through it. If anything, it'll make you appreciate the touch screen 
 a little better than you thought. Overall, Phantom Hourglass is a worthy addition to your DS library, 
 and one I faithfully recommend to you.
  
  
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: kyle12271
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 26, 2009 4:06 pm PT
Review:  I don't know how to start! This is a very good game, from its graphics, to its gameplay. You can 
 finish it in 10-15 hours, so it's pretty easy. But, if you collect all of the spirit gems, and 
 heart containers, plus, get the maximum for your items, then it can take awhile. 
  
  The touch screen has a massive impact for Zelda's first game on the DS. It makes the game 10 times 
 as fun as before, because now you can direct where everything goes, which makes things a little 
 more fun. Also, the attack techniques are more fun, now that you can tap on enemies to defeat them.
 
  
  The items consist of the boomerang, bombs, arrows, bombchus, the grapple, the hammer, and, finally, 
 the shovel. The boomerang is easier to control, since the touch screen is now available, you can 
 now draw a path for your boomerang to follow. The same follows for the bombchus. Most of the items, 
 you receive in dungeons, but some, not.
  
  Yes, this is another sea-type game, like Wind Waker. Although, the sailing is a lot easier. You 
 can draw a path with your stylus to command where you ship goes. Also, you can fight enemies later 
 on once you get the cannon. You also encounter a couple of semi-hard bosses in your ship. Another 
 thing you can do with your ship is to customize it. Once you get a ship part, you can go to a guy 
 in a store, and he will let you customize your ship, free of charge! Later on, you also get a salvage 
 arm that lets you dig up treasure from the bottom of the sea.
  
  I would give the dungeons in Zelda: Phantom Hourglass, a 10/10. They have very good concept, and 
 are semi-tough. The bosses are fun, and challenging. There are also a lot of puzzles in the game. 
 Boy, are some of them hard!
  
  The last part of my review is the online battling. Over Wi-Fi, you can connect to some of you friends, 
 or strangers, and battle. While one person is link, someone is a phantom. The point is for link 
 to get as many gems as possible without time running out or getting hit by a phantom. I wouldn't 
 recommend it unless you play with friends, because usually people quit playing.
  
  
  That concludes my summary and review of Zelda: Phantom Hourglass. I hope you buy it, if you haven't 
 already! Believe me! It is a very good game.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: S10Bleach
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 21, 2009 5:18 pm PT
Review:  At first the game was a little slow, and was kind of boring, but the more you play it the better 
 it gets then when the plot seems generic it completely turns and the plot gets extremely deep, 
 and the difficulty of the minor enemies is kind of easy, but it makes it up with the higher difficulty 
 of being timed to get through a bunch of floors then on top of that you have to solve puzzles to 
 get to te next floor. And then the bosses and fairly difficult and you have to do something specific 
 for one boss to another. Then you have the confussing puzzles, that you think you can figure out, 
 but it has a twist with levers of fires that need to go out. Plus the ship that you can battle 
 creatures with a cannon and have enemies board your ship to fight. The only problem is that you 
 can hold no more than TWO potions at a time, but there might be a time when you need more. All 
 in all, it is a good game that high addictive and a must buy to experience the fun of it all. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: regnellr
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 19, 2009 6:01 pm PT
Review:  With this game being a direct sequel to the famous game, Legend of Zelda : Wind Waker, it starts 
 right where the GameCube left off. Link and Tetra are traveling as a band of pirates on the open 
 sea. You see a quick cutscene, and then you begin playing on an island called Mercay Island. There 
 you meet Oshus, and start your adventure. Meeting many interesting characters along the way, you 
 travel around in search of treasure, sea charts, and big hunks of metal called Pure Metals. Doing 
 all of this leads up to the final battle, where you defeat Bellum and restore peace to the sea.
 
  
  Some of the very good things about this game is its innovative features exclusive to the Nintendo 
 DS. This includes its draw on maps and sea charts feature. This allows you to take notes on the 
 dungeon maps so that you don't have to drag your sorry but across the dungeons over and over again 
 making sure that you have found every nook and cranny possible. You can also draw on the sea charts 
 that you find in the Temple of the Ocean King to mark down treasure locations, hidden islands that 
 you wouldn't have found otherwise, and much more. Along with this touch screen feature, you have 
 to ability to draw out your course on the sea chart to make the ship go in any direction you wish. 
 This knocks out the boring sailing of the Wind Waker, where you had to keep changing the wind's 
 direction. That was one of the parts of the Wind Waker that annoyed me the most, so I am very glad 
 that they have changed Zelda to fit the capabilities of the DS.
  
  
  Some boring things about the game is that it was too simple to figure out some of the puzzles. 
 In the other Zelda games, it would take me about fifteen minutes to figure out the most complicated 
 puzzles. In Phantom Hourglass, the puzzles are more self-explanitory than they are puzzling as 
 they should be. Even though the puzzles are easy to figure out, the way the puzzles are made is 
 what I love about them the most. They take full advantage of the DS's abilities, and make them 
 very enjoyable. This includes having to plot the course of your boomerang to hit targets behind 
 walls, using your hookshot to grab onto far-away objects, making a tightrope with your hookshot 
 and walking across it to reach the other side of long trenches.
  
  Next to the adaptibility of the DS, the storyline of this game is one of the more memorable. Phantom 
 Hourglass features all-new characters, as well as characters that are from other stories as well. 
 Tetra and the crew are back from Windwaker along with Link. This game pretty much carries out the 
 main idea of Wind Waker, sailing around in search of treasure and the islands that will lead to 
 the final boss. There is Linebeck, a sea dog that is only in the journey for the gold on th Ghost 
 Ship; the ship that steals Tetra in the beginning, and the reason for the entire journey. After 
 you find Tetra, you notice that she has had her Life Force sucked out of her. In the end, Tetra 
 returns to normal, and they all live happily ever after.
  
  The game has some very glorified spots, but the simplisticness makes me give it a 9/10. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ZanarkandTidus
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 17, 2009 6:32 pm PT
Review:  
  
  The Legend of Zelda: Phantom Hourglass reminds me of A Link to the Past, except the graphics have 
 a little bit of 3D effects added to them and are brigher and more colorful, and you use the stylus 
 for control and there is great looking cutscenes to tell story elements and you can even sail across 
 the seas!
  
  The stylus control works great, and I think is much better and more fun than using buttons and D-PAD. You 
 just touch enemies you want to kill and maneuver Link by guiding him with the stylus.
  
  You can even write notes on the top touch screen, where you see a map and draw paths.
  
  The 
 typical LOZ puzzle solving is there to make you feel like you're a true adventurer trying to move 
 through a dungeon, and for a sense of realism you will need to actually blow out candles or speak 
 by using the microphone on the DS.
  
  Link once again has the sword, bombs, bombchus (bombs that follow enemies) boomerang, as weapons and 
 the nookshot to get to higher areas. You can use the stylus to direct where you want the boomerang 
 and bombchus to go.
  
  Once again the world is fairly open, you hae  to visit whenever you 
 feel like, and you can travel the ocean via ship and you even see the navigation done (although you 
 can draw a path for the ship to follow) it's still fun as it adds a sense of realism, and you can 
 be attacked by sea monsters and pirates and you can fight them off using the cannon and you can 
 search for treasure!
  
  This is one of the best portable adventure games I've played. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Annimation
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 17, 2009 11:26 am PT
Review:  An absolutely brilliant game. It's packed with challenges, mini-games and puzzles to figure out. 
 Addictive and absorbing, it's responsible for more than a few late nights/early mornings and I 
 can't wait for the sequel.
  
  I've got to thank GameSpot for the walkthrough though. I used it when I couldn't remember how I'd 
 gotten down to a particular floor in the Temple of the Ocean King. I'd obviously forgotten something 
 'cause I'd been there twice before - turned out I'd forgotten... nah! I'm not gonna say. Don't 
 want to spoil it for anybody else but could have spat when I realised what it was I'd forgotten 
 - so many thanks GameSpot or else I could still be there now. Also gotta thank wer199 for the chicken 
 tip (I just knew they had to be there for a reason) . Again, I won't say anymore, as I don't want 
 to spoil the game for anybody 'cause it's absolutely brilliant and in short, I thoroughly recommend 
 it to anybody.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: MadSomeone
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 15, 2009 11:27 am PT
Review:  Shall we just get the formalities out of the way right now then? Because, when it comes down to 
 it, there's no denying the facts - Legend Of Zelda: Phantom Hourglass is brilliant. Or, rather, 
 it's brilliant written in 16-foot high neon letters, placed on top of a mountain with speakers 
 fitted that shout "Brilliant!" at a deafening level, just to ensure that everyone gets the point. 
 And we'd even suggest that it's not just the best Zelda game in recent years, but it's also the 
 best one since Zelda: Link To The Past first revolutionised the series back on the SNES. Yes, really.
 
  
  Before you go off on a rant about us spouting rubbish though, we're well aware that such things 
 shouldn't be said lightly. Indeed, it's an opinion we've taken ages deliberating over while playing 
 the game to completion and, with this particular reviewer being a staunched zealot of the Zelda 
 franchise who knows the games inside out, it's been difficult to say the least. But the thing is, 
 no matter how much we think about it, there's no getting around the fact that it's true.
  
  
  Best Of The Best
  When Link To The Past came out 15 years ago, it totally rewrote the Zelda 
 book by adding an in-depth plot and loads of elements like a world map, enhanced side-quests or 
 subtle guidance of where to go next that we take for granted today. Just as that was a revolutionary 
 step for the series then, so too is Phantom Hourglass - over and above Ocarina Of Time which, despite 
 taking Hyrule into 3D, didn't actually change the dynamic of the series that drastically beyond 
 the obvious. Controversial? Perhaps. But, like we said, there's no denying the facts.
  
  Effectively then, what we have here is the next evolutionary step in the Zelda series; something 
 that becomes apparent not just through the unique control method, but also in the way that the 
 game makes use of those controls to subtly alter the logic of the adventure. Yes, it's still the 
 familiar style of Zelda gameplay that you've grown to adore over the years but, equally, it's different 
 enough that even we couldn't breeze through it without having to put ours brains into gear. Unsure 
 about the solution to a Zelda puzzle? Us? It's unheard of, we tell you.
  
  Remote Control
  That's not to say that Phantom Hourglass 
  is difficult, however; it's just 
 different to what you're used to. Undoubtedly, the biggest hurdle you'll need to overcome are the 
 controls but, as you've no doubt heard us say several times before, they're extremely easy to understand. 
 Using the stylus to move Link, make him attack enemies, use items like the Boomerang or Bombs and 
 interact with the environment becomes second-nature after only a few minutes of practice, leaving 
 you free to concentrate on completing the quest. 
  
  
  
  Should there have been a D-pad/button alternative? No. Not only would it not work in the same way 
 with traditional controls, but most of the clever changes that make the game such a joy to play 
 would be lost...
  
  And, ultimately, it's these seemingly minor changes that elevate the game to the pedestal upon 
 which we've placed it. Again, it's an evolution of what you've come to expect from Zelda games 
 - not a complete overhaul requiring you to relearn everything from scratch, but rather a collection 
 of subtle tweaks that enhance the game without being discouraging.
  
  Having to remember places you can't pass due to a lack of equipment is a fact of Zelda life (and, 
 indeed, most Nintendo adventure games) . Now you can scribble notes to yourself so you don't forget, 
 because there's that much more to remember. Using items now requires more thought - like choosing 
 the path for your Boomerang or using the Grappling Hook as a slingshot to throw Link over gaps. 
 Even solving puzzles is that much more cerebral because you've got the option to write stuff down. 
 With a focus on counting and patterns over the more obvious solutions of its predecessors' conundrums, 
 Phantom Hourglass is certainly the thinking man's Zelda game.
  
  I'm So Pretty
  And then, of course, you've got the wonderful visuals. The screenshots here don't do it justice, 
 because you need to see it running - and, as a result, watch the way Link responds to walking a 
 tightrope, skidding on ice or even just listening to someone talk - to appreciate how much the 
 DS is doing. Pinching the art style of Wind Waker was genius enough, but to have realised it so 
 amazingly on the DS is a feat Nintendo can be very proud of.
  
  
  
  So, yes - it's gushing praise all the way. But are there flaws? You'd think we were being blas 
 by saying no, but... well, there aren't. Not really. True, it would have been nice to see a few 
 more dungeons but that's just us being greedy. The eight provided are more than sufficient and 
 that's before you factor in the side-quests and additional things to collect outside the main adventure. 
 So is Phantom Hourglass really that perfect? Yes... yes, it is. And you wouldn't believe how happy 
 it makes us to say that. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nintendo4ever25
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 11, 2009 7:10 pm PT
Review:  From the outstanding multiplayer, to the immersive storyline, The Legend of Zelda: Phantom Hourglass 
 (LZPH) is the best, not ONE of the best, but the absolute best game on the Nintendo DS. I have 
 spent hundreds of hours on this game, 75% of which on the highly addictive multiplayer alone, and 
 haven't played the single player mode in a long time. Not saying that it is not good, but ever 
 since I bought the game and found out how to do the multiplayer setup for it (It was my first WI-FI 
 enabled game at the time) I haven't been able to put it down.
  
  The multiplayer is a mix of 8 stages ranging from small to huge, which adds a lot of variety to 
 the game. The multiplayer battles involve you getting as many force gems from the middle ground 
 into your base on the offense. On the defensive side, you are to defend your gems, and attack link 
 to kill him. You can also steal the other person's gems and put them into your base. For complete 
 instructions there is a tutorial that explains it out.
  
  The single player is long and engaging, but most of the puzzles are easy to solve and won't take 
 much time to think about, the foes as well, are ranged from extremely easy to mediocre. If you 
 are a hardcore Legend of Zelda fan, you will find this game easy, but engaging and immersive. If 
 you don't like the single player mode, just switch over to the multiplayer and play that.
  
  Overall, this game is worth $34 just for the multiplayer alone, and the single player is an 
 added bonus. I highly recommend this game to hardcore and casual gamers alike, as long as you have 
 an internet connection and lots of time on your hands, because you are gonna need it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ojayosc
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 10, 2009 8:25 am PT
Review:  Phantom hourglass is truely an amazing game its highly addictive puzzles and levels will keep you 
 hooked for hours and its immersive story will keep you highly entertained.
  
  I think i shall start this by telling you about the beauty in this game its so great even the opening 
 when you first insert your game into your ds the way you see bright blue waves splashing up against 
 the side of your boat and the amazing differences in environments from sunny beach's to cold icy 
 northern islands. The character design is brilliant too how link is made to look along with the 
 other great characters and companions. 
  
  The story behind the game is that link has to go off and find his friend who has been captured 
 by an evil sea demon who has thrown down the ocean king and taken control of the oceans which you 
 will explore during the game. As you can imagine your job is to go and find your friend on a great 
 journey across the oceans. I can't explain the story fully because it is difficult to explain and 
 i definately don't want to give any spoilers away so i will just say that you have to go through 
 alot of hard sometimes annoying levels to complete your tasks and i wont lie these levels can be 
 incredibly difficult but if you want to carry on you will push forward and when you have completed 
 a level it feels really good and satisfying. However the levels are only on the islands and the 
 islands are only one half of the game the other is when you are in your boat with your companion 
 who is the captain and you can navigate wherever you want to go and he will take you there the 
 boat is a great addition to the game you can fully customise it to have a cannon and even a salvage 
 arm so you can salvage treasure marked on your map.
  
  The touch screen brings this game to life you can do anything you want by touch from navigating 
 your character to slashing baddies with your sword. Which brings me to weapons, you can get a variety 
 of weapons in phantom hourglass but all of them have to be earned you can get a sword , boomerang, 
 bombs, a giant hammer, a grappler and a super sword and as you can imagine once you have found 
 these weapons your next mission will need you to throw your boomerang at something you can't reach 
 to get a door open or bash something big with your hammer which really helps you to figure out 
 how these weapons work my personal favourite was the boomerang it got me out of some really sticky 
 spots.
  
  I know i must have missed something out but there is so much to phantom hourglass i can't possibly 
 fit everything into one review. All in all phantom hourglass is a truely incredible game although 
 the ending left me and many others scratching our heads saying ... ''EH'' but it all comes together. 
 Anyone with a ds who hasn't even played a zelda game before should get this and play it its a beautifull 
 game full to the brim with excitement and emotion and it should always be remembered as one of 
 the best games to ever come to the ds because that's what it is. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: julianozuca
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 7, 2009 10:54 am PT
Review:  The Good: Full touch screen control works pretty well; beautiful graphics that will become a standard 
 in the DS; remarkable dual screen boss battles; more 'puzzling' gameplay brings some fresh air.
 
  
  The Bad: A little short.
  
  Fans can complain about many things in a 'Zelda' that follows The Wind Waker (Game Cube) , since 
 it was one of the most controversial games in the series; but they can't complain about some producer 
 afraid of changes here.
  What these two games hold together is an option for the sailor version of Link (maybe based upon 
 Tolkien's predictions for the Elves in The Lord of the Rings) , what results in a different way 
 to explore the world: boarding a ship.
  
  The game splits the action between the land front (exploring dungeons, fighting enemies, using 
 a wide variety of items - all of these just like any other 'Zelda' before) and the water front, 
 where you'll find yourself tracing routes to find new islands, talking to floating merchants, looking 
 for treasure chests, fishing, and even fighting (but now handling a cannon instead of a sword) .
 
  These separated fronts were the main cause behind the frustration of players venturing themselves 
 into The Wind Waker: the brake in the game fluency, cranky controls of the ship, and the simple 
 fact that it wasn't 'Zelda' at all. But things work pretty fine here, and I think the action is 
 perfectly well balanced.
  The time we spend in the ship can be very interesting here. Sailing is easier than before because 
 the only thing you must do is to trace a route in the sea chart - the boat will do the rest of 
 it alone; fishing through the touch screen feels great pulling the rod and winding the fishing 
 line (although some Rumble Pak support would be appreciated) ; and we can almost say the same about 
 salvaging treasure chests, if the axis used to control the crane wasn't so close to the bottom 
 border of the screen, what makes it a little uncomfortable. Another good thing when playing in 
 this 'water front' is customizing your ship. We can switch its parts (anchor, cannon, prow, etc) 
 and aside changing the appearance of the ship it will give it more resistance depending on how 
 you combine those parts.
  But despite all this renovation in the sailing mechanics the real deal here is in the 'land front': 
 the game is fully controlled through the touch screen.
  
  The biggest stake of the producers here was eliminating buttons and D-pad from the controls. It 
 would be a lot easier to take advantage from the stupendous The Minish Cap (Game Boy Advance) and 
 achieve guaranteed success, but someone there really wanted something new.
  You're in control of Ciela, the fairy that guides Link throughout the adventure; in fact she acts 
 as the pointer, and where she goes Link gives chase. If she (the tip of the Stylus) is near him, 
 he walks slowly; if she's away from him, he runs; you tap an enemy, Link attacks it automatically; 
 quick scratches in different directions will result in stabs and slices with the sword; a circle 
 around Link makes a spin attack; and so on with all the other character's controls. It takes a 
 little time to get used to it, but after that you'll start thinking that some items like the boomerang, 
 the hook or Bombchus were created having a touch screen in mind. Boomerang and Bombchus both follow 
 a route you draw in the screen and the hook can even place a rose that links two separated places 
 allowing you to walk from here to there. And I must say that all those features play an important 
 role in puzzles. Aside that all, you can finally make appointments in your map, and that's a dream 
 coming true to all Zelda players (some 'undo' button wouldn't do any harm here, though) .
  The first impression you get is that the game will be easy because of this 'tap-auto-attack', but 
 it's not true. You'll see it in a boss fight when you need to change a weapon without pausing the 
 game  you must do it by tapping an icon in the bottom of the screen. (In fact you can pause the 
 game by opening the 'collectibles' window, but there's not much there to help you in a fight.)
 
  
  That reminds me of talking about the bosses: I really think that these boss battles are among the 
 best of all time. The camera angle descends a little to show the action in both screens and the 
 battles ask for more technique and ratiocination power than ever  besides being beautiful and 
 remarkable (see the two-headed dragon, the sand monster, the giant golem and the last boss at the 
 temple and you'll agree) .
  
  Another step towards innovation was to make the ordinary gameplay a little more... puzzling. Zelda 
 series has always been famous because of its extraordinary puzzles, but this attribute was reinforced 
 here with some changes inside the dungeons.
  There are moments when you must take some Triforce pieces or crystals in different shapes here 
 and there; but these items don't go to your inventory, what means you must carry them above your 
 head through the rooms. That makes you more stealthy than noisy. The same goes for the Master Keys, 
 recalling the gameplay of Mario vs. Donkey Kong (Game Boy Advance) or from its underappreciated 
 grandfather Donkey Kong (Super Game Boy) . The whole thing reaches its limits inside the Ocean King's 
 Temple, where you must return several times digging deeper and deeper to find the boss. There inside 
 is a dark force that drains your healthy if your hourglass (the one from the title) runs out of 
 sand, and strategy is necessary to make it to the end.
  There's also the excellent use of the DS's hardware, but not much can be said without spoiling 
 you.
  
  About the presentation, everything is OK. Graphics are an interesting hybrid of 3D modeling/cel-shading 
 with a soft contour in the objects, pushing the hardware to its limits. Visual effects are beautiful 
 (the same with the animation scenes) and I think here is an awesome solution for creating graphics 
 in the DS (despite the fact that Link is the ugliest character in the game) .
  Sound is OK too, good SFX but music is not that inspired.
  
  If we must point some major problem 
 in Phantom Hourglass it is its shortness. There's not much to do after the end: a few heart containers 
 (not split into heart pieces) , a short variety of fishes, a good item change system taken from 
 Link's Awakening (Game Boy) and a fair amount of ship parts to collect. Maybe the only thing that 
 can ask the player a little more dedication is the collection of all the gems that raise the fairies' 
 powers (up to 60, 20 to each fairy) . Multiplayer is funny - based upon the seek-and-hide play between 
 Link and the Phantoms that appear inside the Temple  and it helps to extend the life of the cart 
 through the Wi-Fi connection.
  And the game's difficulty is not that big for those who are used to play other Zelda games, despite 
 the high difficult level found in some side quests as the bow & arrows/cannon games and Maze Island 
 objectives.
  
  In the end we can say that Nintendo has done it right choosing the innovation path, and Phantom 
 Hourglass ended being a superb game. And it's a game that could only be conceived to work in a 
 system like DS. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DSFanaticNerd
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 5, 2009 1:41 pm PT
Review:  The game is interesting and I am still working on beating it.
  
  The Good:
  1. Good Gameplay
  2. Nice Controls
  3. Fun Multiplay
  3. Downloadable Multi-Play is good for 
 fun with friends
  
  The Bad:
  1. Slightly Repetitive
  
  The game can get annoying as right now I am stuck on one part, but the multiplaying is a big hit 
 for me and my friends. They don't even need the game to play. But if they do it is even more fun, 
 but annoying because you take each others points. However, the fact that they include the multiplayer 
 game in the actual game by giving you prizes is the fun part of being a big winner.
  
  Repetition is only hardly an issue. I mean after you beat a temple you have to go back to the first 
 one, and redo that until you beat it again. Which to me was just SOOO annoying. But to some people 
 it's no big deal, just a thing you have to do. 
  
  The fact that it's a role-play caught my attention. I personally love role-playing and it's just 
 fun. So that's one of the the things that I like about it, some people may not, but hey it's an 
 individual thought.
  
  The multiplayer is what I've been ranting about so, it's just fun! You have to find a friend with 
 a DS and ask them if they want to try a game with you and try it! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: xSmiLeZx
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 4, 2009 9:55 pm PT
Review:  Here is a quick overview of this brilliant game.
  
  Wi-Fi 8/10
  
  Semi-entertaining game. The Wi-Fi consist of a game were one player plays as Link and the other 
 plays as a Phantom, when you are playing Link your objective is to get as many Triforce pieces 
 back to your area as possible before the Phantom player catches you. After Link is caught the players 
 switch roles.
  
  Graphics 10/10
  
  These graphics are simply amazing on the DS. This is the best 3d I've ever seen on a handheld.
 
  
  Sound 10/10
  
  Excellent sound. The boat noises are pretty realistic and there are still those catchy tunes that 
 will get stuck in your head.
  
  Gameplay 10/10
  
  The gameplay in this game is simply amazing and one of a kind. This game utilizes the touch screen 
 for every action in the game, and does it very well at that.
  
  Story 10/10
  
  Great story. You won't be able to put it down, and will always be wondering what will happen next.
 
  
  Length 9/10
  
  I felt that this game could have been a little longer, but I am still satisfied with it.
  
 
  Overall 10/10
  
  If you are wanting a new game for your DS that utilizes the touch screen controls and is just simply 
 amazing I definitely recommend this game. 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: mechatac
Rating: 6
Date: Jan 2, 2009 4:36 pm PT
Review:  While the worst Zelda games will almost certainly be the horrid messes that graced the CD-i and 
 make us laugh on youtube, this has been, by far, my least favorite Nintendo-made Zelda title.
 
  
  I liked Wind Waker, it was the reason I bought the Gamecube and it's still a favorite. I really 
 don't have anything against the graphics or it being a handheld, as Minish Cap was my first Zelda 
 experience and it also used the Wind Waker graphics (although less noticeably than it's used here) . 
 It's not even that it failed to live up to my expectations, it is simply that Phantom Hourglass 
 isn't a very good DS game.
  
  Pros:
  some inventive, DS function based puzzles
  improved (less boring) sailing
  being able to draw on the maps
  music
  
  Cons:
  the sailing 
 is still there
  the starting temple
  controls and inability to use standard control buttons
  control swapping in the goron dual character 
 dungeon
  controlling the stupid goron
  graphics
  
  The one pro that I want to elaborate on (since I think the other ones are a bit easy to understand) 
 is that the game actually used all of the functions of the DS appropriately, which I'd like to 
 see Nintendo do with their waggle on the Wii. The functions that I mean are the ever annoying voice 
 recognition and the DS's ability to be put to sleep, which made for some clever puzzles. While 
 the forced need to use the voice recognition was embarassing, it was used sparingly and appropriately, 
 which is ok in my book.
  
  The cons for me were the very things that they should not be: the controls. Everything is handled 
 through the touch screen. While this resulted in a few things that would have been good additions 
 had we been able to use standard controls, such as boomerang and grappling hook control, it was 
 mostly a bad idea to only be able to use the touch screen overall. Slashing and moving can be hectic, 
 while the game will pretty much do what you expect to overall, just controlling Link feels like 
 a chore and not really all that much fun. It's not that the controls didn't work, it's just that 
 they would have worked a lot better with standard controls. At one point in the game, you have 
 to control a goron kid, and his controls are just awful. To top it off, you have to switch between 
 this goron kid and Link during the boss battle, which turns into a hideous mess of frustration 
 very quickly. The goron kid-Link control switch was the worst control in the entire game and one 
 of the worst control schemes I think I've seen on the DS.
  
  Controls aside, which aren't fabulous, but aren't unplayable, the biggest flaw in the game was 
 the starting temple. I'll just quote Zero Punctuation, because he sums it up pretty much the way 
 I would:
  **From Zero Punctuations review of Zelda: Phantom Hourglass over at the Escapist. com**
 1) 
 It's on a completely unnecessary timer
  2) It's full of un-killable baddies creating that death-nell of enjoyment "the forced stealth section" 
 which I kinda hoped gaming had grown out of by now
  and 3) every time you return you have to go through all the rooms you went through last time to 
 get to the new area"
  The temple was just a poorly designed idea from the beginning for the reason that Yahtzee mentioned 
 above in his review. This temple isn't just a bad idea in the Zelda games, but in any game. It 
 is, without a doubt, one of the worst ideas I've ever seen in an action-adventure game and it prevented 
 me from even considering a re-play of this game and it is half the reason why it is my least favorite 
 Nintendo Zelda title.
  
  It's not that the graphics are bad, but Wind Waker was one of the most stylish 3D Zelda adventures 
 ever and Phantom Hourglass just looks like a terrible port of good graphics. It's not gameplay 
 breaking, but I found them to be pretty hideous.
  
  overall: 3/5
  It's a pretty average game with the Zelda logo on it. There's tons of better action adventure and 
 Zelda games, if you're not a huge fan, skip it. If you are a fan with a DS, odds are you've already 
 played it. for those looking to get into Zelda, there are too many other better games to call this 
 a recommend. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Aireannaiel
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 6, 2009 11:46 am PT
Review:  Phantom Hourglass: A Happy Note in Zelda's History
  
  *A quick note. I have tried not to be a spoiler, though the game HAS been out quite some time. 
 I feel that I have succeeded in my task, but for courtesy's sake I felt all should know that I 
 used a few vague examples from the game and covered new game play mechanics.
  
  Introduction
  At this point, I think it's far too impossible for me not to rank a Zelda game 
 a 10 for posterity's sake alone. By now, elements that I can't help but enjoy have been plunked 
 into place and the character of Link has become like the star character of a television show that 
 I continue to tune into to find out what will happen next. The storylines, the items, the dungeons, 
 everything has that element of familiarity with it. Playing a new Zelda game is, for the most part, 
 like putting on an old glove.
  Perhaps that is why I am so ecstatic about my enjoyment of Phantom Hourglass. Sure, you can talk 
 about the long-established things such as brilliant elemental dungeons or collecting pendants or 
 pearls, I'm not saying they aren't a lot of fun, because they are. But those things are part of 
 that "old glove" metaphor, they will always happen. But there was a precious new enjoyment with 
 PH: the enjoyment of new.
  Its been awhile. Not since yelling expletives at Link my first time through Ocarina in certain 
 dungeons have I talked so intently at my Zelda game. But PH was so funny and so bright that I couldn't 
 help myself. I can't really explain it. By now, I've read many reviews, both positive and negative 
 about Hourglass. All I can really say is that, for me, this game was exactly what I was looking 
 for in a handheld Zelda. It just clicked. It tickled my funny bone. I simply had fun.
  About two decades ago, The Legend of Zelda came out and became a milestone. About a decade ago, 
 Ocarina of Time burst onto the scene and Zelda games were never the same. In this decade-jumping 
 phenomenon, I put forward my opinion that for me, Phantom Hourglass' new elements put it squarely 
 into the new decade marker. The things Phantom Hourglass has done will help shape the new direction 
 of Zelda in a major way. Throughout my review, I have underlined those elements that I believe 
 deserve to be placed into the decade place-holder of Zelda. Obviously, they are debatable. 
  The great Zelda game of recent years. It could have been Twilight Princess, but it wasn't. It was 
 Phantom Hourglass.
  
  Graphics & Gameplay
  For a start, I enjoyed the Wind Waker graphics on a handheld system. I really did. I was never 
 one of the people that freaked out when WW graphics made their appearance, but I think that they 
 really just worked for a handheld better. One of the greatest parts of this Cel-da was the big 
 bright everything. It was like walking through a cartoon. The bold colors painted a very "adventure" 
 theme of sailing on the ocean where other color schemes would have altered the vision (for good 
 or for bad) . The dungeons and puzzles were (again) extremely entertaining and the DS capabilities 
 made getting fed up and closing my DS the most "DUH." moment I've ever had.
  It's not to say that other games haven't had this bright quality: Minish Cap was extremely bright 
 as well, for example. However Hourglass, with its unique style, lent itself to all of the important 
 parts of the game that were new for this DS adventure.
  The gameplay mechanics flowed like a dream. Moving the sword was something I did myself, but didn't 
 have to literally slash a whole sword with my arm as in TP. Previews trumpeted how easy it was 
 to pick up the DS controls for Link, but it wasn't until I started the game myself that I saw how 
 actually easy it really was. Amazingly, everything made sense! The sword slashes were extremely 
 responsive and accurate, and picking up the items from the bottom of the screen was a smooth motion 
 that was easy to remember. And though the spin attack was the only thing that gave me some trouble 
 (you know, I got the hang of it in the field, but I was useless against stumps) , it was not the 
 fault of the game, and the motion itself made sense as well.
  An added note on the use of the items: The items, once collected, displayed across the bottom of 
 the screen, making my lazy life just a little lazier. It was so easy to switch items or even just 
 to take one out in the nick of time by simply touching them. A good game, in my opinion, will sometimes 
 let you fix your mistakes if you can out-think the game itself, and PH let you whip out items in 
 many a "No sir, YOU are going to die!" moment. Which is always amusing.
  
  
  Innovations
  Innovations with the DS were enough to prove its capabilities, but not enough to 
 feel contrived or forced into a Zelda game. Blowing out a candle, wiping dirt from a screen, and 
 (Here's my dreaded "DOH!" moment!) transferring a graphic from top to bottom screen were extremely 
 creative without being the answer to every single puzzle in the game. The use of drawing symbols 
 was great too: a particular instance that stands out is a certain door that opened to two different 
 locations depending on what symbol you drew on its face.
  And of course drawing brings us to my favorite update in the Zelda of the DS world. 
  
  Map 
 Drawing
  A quick back story on my obsession with this element of PH:
  My first memory of any video game was resting against a couch in the family T. V. room, large sheets 
 of paper spread at my feet and my father playing Adventure of Link on the screen. My father was 
 an avid player and enjoyed the Zelda series because it allowed him to meld button pressing in Bit-Land 
 with complex map drawing and logic seeking in Real-Land. My hands were just steady enough at this 
 stage of my vocabularily-challenged life to be allowed to hold the ruler as he lovingly drew the 
 current room out, enemies, secrets, and all. Massive maps, that had to be folded over and over 
 again to be stored in the closet.
  This is something that has stuck with me through my whole Zelda career. Even when player's guides 
 came out with lavish and official looking maps, I have always spread my poster board or taped together 
 paper out; pausing every few feet through my first excursion to pencil in my own maps on the floor. 
 To me it seemed obvious, and I never understood why the Zelda franchise never picked up on it.
 
  But finally, they have. PH marked a huge milestone for me, and perhaps many more. Here was the 
 first insertion of drawing your own maps. It wasn't totally sophisticated; the parameters of the 
 map were already put in for you and there was only certain places that you could map. However, 
 it was a glorious start. Notes and the ability to erase were valuable additions to the game.
  I hope very seriously that map drawing is being included in future major console games. I see a 
 lovely online future where maps become like the "build your own stage" in Super Smash Bros. Brawl, 
 able to be traded and used by others; a new way for all of us to play Zelda together.
  
  Storyline, Characters, and the Rest
  Storylines in fantasy have a lot of allowances. Zelda stories 
 can take you to fight a pumpkinhead, take a pet Chain-Chomp for a walk, or bring eye drops to a 
 mountain sized rock creature (thankfully, all of which have actually happened in the Zelda series) . 
 It's not always hard to think up silly or outlandish elements for a fantasy storyline; you yourself 
 can think up anything that might take place along the way by being creative. A tap dancing bunny? 
 Sure. A love-struck flower? Why not. 
  The important part in fantasy storylines is the ending. The way the story goes from point A to 
 B to C, and just when you thought it would end with D, actually ends with G. Because almost anything 
 and everything can happen in a Zelda story, I'm going to focus on where it ended up taking me.
 
  The storyline made some interesting choices in the end as well. It was nice that they didn't wrap 
 up their storyline in a bow. It didn't need to be spelled out. It was an ending that I wish rather 
 heartily to talk about here, but keep deleting my text for fear of spoilers.
  This. THIS is the kind of attachment I want to my characters. I wanted to gasp at who I had to 
 fight in the end. I even found myself rooting for the more generic characters in the game. Never, 
 with the exception of my Phoenix Wright games, have I talked so happily with my characters, rooted 
 for them when they were down, and felt sad when they were gone.
  
  Ending Conclusion
  I think this enjoyment of characters and innovations really made a difference. While stubbornly 
 sloshing my way through The Temple of the Ocean King, I never got bored. I was determined to figure 
 it all out and see this story to its ending. I was steadfast anytime I ran out of time and had 
 to start over. I was purely invested in my game and burned through its Gem collections and minigames 
 and sea charts faster than I may have ever done (even in Ocarina) . 
  And for a little port on the DS with a lower graphic quality than Wind Waker, I think that's really 
 saying something. 
  Phantom Hourglass: Zelda Game of its Year. 
  For me: Zelda Game of the Decade.
  
  
  Aire
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: GameBlender
Rating: 6.5
Date: Dec 20, 2008 2:05 am PT
Review:  As a Zelda game, Phantom Hourglass is not great. It just can't hold up when compared to say, Ocarina 
 of Time or A Link to the Past. In fact, compared to a lot of DS games, Phantom Hourglass isn't 
 great and contrary to what a lot of people have said, the game quickly becomes very tedious and 
 boring.
  
  Firstly, the story. It's not bad, certainly not by Zelda standards. Sure, it follows the "go rescue 
 the princess" cliche, but that's pretty much a standard in every Zelda game. It does break from 
 tradition a bit because the game isn't set in Hyrule, but rather a unnamed bunch of islands. The 
 dialogue can be seen as a bit too "childish" for some people's tastes, but it suits the characters. 
 The characters themselves are likable, and while there isn't a whole lot of character development 
 they don't annoy you with shouts of "Hey!" or "Listen!" every couple of seconds. The ending is 
 just plain bad though. I won't spoil it, but chances are you will have seen this ending before 
 anyway. Another break from tradition is the fact that Ganon isn't in this game at all. While again, 
 I won't spoil the (bad) ending by revealing who the main villain is this time around, it seems 
 incredibly lame and not particularly menacing in comparison to the pig-like king of evil. At least 
 Tingle isn't in this game, so that's a positive.
  
  All of the action in the game takes place on the bottom screen of the DS. Link and all of his actions 
 are completely stylus controlled, but I'm not going to complain about this because they work surprisingly 
 well. It does take a bit of getting used to but once you get the hang of using the stylus to perform 
 various sword strokes every other Zelda game seems clunky and slow in comparison. You can also 
 bring down a map from the top screen which you can freely draw on and annotate as you wish. This 
 is necessary to do for some puzzles and is generally used to great effect. I wish more games would 
 use the DS's technology to such an extent as this game. Of course, some actions, such as shouting 
 in the microphone to stun enemies aren't such a great addition - especially if you're playing in 
 public.
  
  The sailing from Wind Waker returns, only a bit less hands on. Considering the rest of Link's adventure 
 this time around seems more hands on than previous entries this is a puzzling change. Anyone who 
 didn't like sailing in Wind Waker certainly won't enjoy it this time around and even if you didn't 
 mind the sailing portions (like me) you'll most likely find sailing in Phantom Hourglass to be 
 excruciatingly tedious. Basically, all you have to to is draw a path on the touch screen and your 
 ship will follow it - even if it means hitting every rock along the way. You can equip your vessel 
 with a rocket and use it to hit the occasional enemy or randomly blast at seabirds but this doesn't 
 really help to make the really long and drawn out sailing sections any less boring. It's a welcome 
 change when you finally gain the ability to warp between places in the ocean. Later you can fish 
 or salvage goods while sailing across the ocean through fun yet repetitive minigames, but to get 
 to these parts you have to sail there first...
  
  Graphically the game looks amazing. It takes the beautiful cel-shaded style of Wind Waker and somehow 
 manages to fit it all on the DS Console. Link's movement is nice and fluid and the game is definitely 
 one of the best looking on the console. It's a shame that the environments all look so sameish 
 though. You travel to a wide variety of islands on your journey, but they all seem to look the 
 same. Same trees, same grass, same bushes, same rocks. It all looks great, but I would have liked 
 to see a bit more variety with the enviroments. The sound effects are all sound (ugh) , but the 
 music isn't, especially compared to the high standard we've come to expect from the Zelda series. 
 Sure, there are some decent compositions - Linebeck's theme and the sailing theme are good (even 
 if it does sound a bit too much like the sailing theme from Wind Waker) , but the rest just sound 
 awful. I'm glad that it doesn't just recycle music from previous games (the only piece I could 
 recognize was the shop music) , but they could have put a lot more effort into the music in this 
 game.
  
  Another part of the game which pales in comparison to other Zelda games are the actual environments 
 and how they are set out. The series is generally known for having great dungeon design, but not 
 one of Phantom Hourglasses' dungeons were memorable, except the Temple of the Ocean King which 
 was memorable for all the wrong reasons. Basically, it's a massive temple with floors well into 
 double digits. You can't explore this temple all at once though, and you have retrace your steps 
 through it several times throughout the game in order to advance the story. I wouldn't mind this 
 if the temple wasn't so annoying. For starters, it is infested with creatures which will send you 
 back to the start of the floor if they catch you, so you have to use stealth to get through the 
 dungeon. On top of that, the game throws a time limit at you in the form of the titular Phantom 
 Hourglass. Combine irritating stealth sequences with unnecessary time limits and you have a recipe 
 for cheap difficulty. The rest of the game is incredibly easy, but the Temple of the Ocean King 
 parts are a challenge - and not in a good way. You'll be relieved it's over, and then you'll have 
 to go back there and do it all again.
  
  Many Zelda purists will also be annoyed a few "necessities" of the series which have been removed 
 in this game. Pieces of Heart and Bottles are gone, but to be fair you can still collect heart 
 containers and "spirit gems." These gems can give Link extra abilities such as the classic "shooting 
 beams from the tip of your sword" trick, or to an incredibly cool and overpowered flaming sword 
 attack. I honestly don't really care about things being taken out of the series - in my opinion 
 the series was getting a bit tired, so it's good that Phantom Hourglass tries to freshen it up 
 a bit.
  
  Zelda fans should check this out anyway. It's not even close to being the best in the series, but 
 it's certainly the most unique. It looks and controls like a dream, but it's a shame that most 
 of the gameplay is taken up by either the tedious sailing or the tedious stealth/time limit sequences 
 leaving not much left to enjoy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Hoodedrouge
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 12, 2009 8:26 am PT
Review:  Amazing game. Wi - Fi 10/10
  
  Amazing Wi - Fi, Its a new sort of game they put into action here, get the triangles to your side 
 taking turns one player is link one is phantom.
  
  Graphics 10/10
  
  These are amazing DS graphics, its prolly the best 3d ive ever seen on a handheld.
  
  Sound 
 10/10
  
  Amazing sound, catchy music, realistic boat noises, The sound in this game is great
  
  Gameplay 
 10/10
  
  Ok this one I wish could go higher because these controls are amazing, I think every control is 
 touch screen, I realy think this zelda embraced the touchscreen.
  
  Story 10/10
  
  Great story, keeps you glued to it, you may need a walkthrough at times, but usualy your fine.
 
  
  Length 10/10
  
  Talk about long DS games, its gonna take a long time to beat this one!
  
  Overall 10/10
  
 
  If you are considering a new DS game this is a amazing choice. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: katman252016
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 13, 2008 11:06 am PT
Review:  Games like this come along maybe just once in a lifetime. This game is SO MUCH DIFFERENT then your 
 average videogame. The touchscreen controls are so ground-breaking, that i'm wondering why anybody 
 hasn't thought of this a LONG, LONG time ago!!!! The control scheme for this game is most likely 
 to be copied and incorporated into many more "Legend of Zelda" and other games for a VERY LONG 
 TIME!!!!
  
  Well enough small-talk, This game overall weighs in at a ten out of ten, Because of its great story-line, 
 pretty rock-solid background music and sound effects, its difficultly level is hard, but not so 
 hard that I wanted to throw my Nintendo DS against a brick wall in frustration (sidenote: During 
 the final boss fight with Bellum, I did have a little bit of trouble using the spirit of courage's 
 ability to control time, but after a little while (Meaning four days...) of trying I was finally 
 able to defeat Bellum in the end though!!!!) , and the games grab-n-go touchscreen controls, pretty 
 much add up to a pretty darn good videogame. (I just had to get one of my friends to defeat Jolene-"The 
 She-Pirate" while Zeus was forging the "Phantom Sword")
  
  Great Game!!!! :-) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: EuroMafia
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 11, 2008 7:35 am PT
Review:  As you may know, Phantom Hourglass is the sequel to Wind Waker, and is set in a similar world, 
 utilizing a similar graphical style. The game world consists of many islands scattered throughout 
 the Great Sea, and you play as Link on your quest to rescue your friend Tetra from the clutches 
 of the Ghost Ship.
  
  The first thing you will notice upon starting out upon your adventure is, of course, the graphics. 
 The visual style in Phantom Hourglass is quite similar to the cel-shaded style of Wind Waker. Suffice 
 it to say, it looks phenomenal. It is remarkable how Nintendo seems to have been able to take Wind 
 Waker and cram it onto the DS with very little difference, besides a lower resolution, of course. 
 The environments are colorful and gorgeous, and despite some muddy textures when up close, the 
 game as a whole is beautiful.
  
  The very next thing that you'll notice are the controls. Link is moved by placing the stylus at 
 any point on the screen, at which point he will run towards it. This can be likened to the method 
 of movement in Animal Crossing: Wild World. Your attacks are handled using one of two methods; 
 you can either tap an enemy, which causes Link to attack it, or you can make a swiping motion across 
 the touch screen, at which point Link will swipe with his sword. Link's trademark spin attack is 
 accomplished by quickly drawing a large circle around Link, and drawing a loop-de-loop or zigzag 
 at the edges of the screen results in a roll or somersault. The controls were no doubt a point 
 of apprehension for longtime fans of the series, but I can safely say that they work impeccably. 
 At first it may seem that the spin attack and roll are not quite as responsive as they should be, 
 but after a little practice it becomes apparent that this is not true.
  
  The gameplay manages to feel fresh and new, yet at the same time retains all the qualities that 
 make Zelda "Zelda." The game is layed out vastly the same as all previous Zelda titles; Link must 
 rescue Zelda, so he journeys through dungeons, fighting a boss at the end of each, and acquiring 
 weapons and items that get him closer towards his goal. Those who believe that the Zelda series 
 is getting formulaic, and those who found Twilight Princess stale are probably groaning at this 
 point, but fear not! While the core design of Phantom Hourglass hasn't changed, the experience 
 as a whole feels incredibly fresh and new. A good illustration of this point lies within the weapon 
 set of this game. While all the weapons in the game will feel familiar to veterans of the series, 
 the ways in which you use them are completely unique, and utilize the DS's touch screen controls 
 in a marvelous way. For example: I don't feel I spoil too much when I say that Link will acquire 
 a boomerang in this game. However, the ability to draw out the exact path the boomerang will follow 
 on the touch screen gives rise to some far more complex puzzles than were possible with the boomerang 
 before.
  
  Of course, no Zelda game would be complete without a plethora of puzzles to solve, and no review 
 of a Zelda game would be complete without discussing said puzzles. I personally feel that the puzzles 
 in this game are the strongest puzzles the Zelda series has ever seen, and arguably the best puzzles 
 in any game, period. They are absolutely brilliant, and some of them are pure genius. No puzzles 
 in the game are as simple as "hit this switch" or "push this block." Although you will do plenty 
 of block pushing and switch hitting throughout your quest, all of these activities are part of 
 a larger puzzle that almost always requires you to think harder than most recent Zelda puzzles. 
 Some of the puzzles in the game require you to think far beyond the traditional limits of video 
 game puzzles, and leave you scratching you head until you figure it out, at which point the sheer 
 brilliance of the design hits you.
  
  An element that goes hand-in-hand with puzzles in Zelda games would obviously be the bosses. Phantom 
 Hourglass has some of the most memorable boss fights of the series. I don't want to spoil any of 
 them for you, but I will say that almost all of the boss fights use both of the DS's screens in 
 some very interesting ways. None of them are particularly hard, but this can be forgiven because 
 of the pure ingenuity and singularity of these fights.
  Another facet of Zelda games is the map. Usually it's nothing too remarkable; just a device to 
 help you know where to go. Thanks to the unique features of the DS, however, it has been completely 
 rethought. Rather than simply looking at your map for direction, it becomes an integral part of 
 the gameplay. You are able, at any time, to bring the map down from the top screen and scribble 
 anything on it that you wish. At first it may seem like a mere distraction, until you realize just 
 how vital it is. The vast majority of the puzzles in the game require that you write something 
 down on the map for use later.
  
  A first for the Zelda series is the inclusion of a two player multiplayer mode. It is no more than 
 a distraction, although it certainly is a fun distraction. In this mode, one player takes the role 
 of Link, and the other plays as the invincible Phantoms. Link must try to get Force Gems back to 
 his base, while the Phantoms attempt to stop him. There is a good bit of strategy involved, and 
 it's worth trying out. Nintendo Wifi Connection multiplayer support is also an added bonus for 
 this mode.
  
  As you would expect, the production values are through the roof. The entire game is impressive, 
 and sailing around on the Great Sea, blasting seagulls out of the sky (yes, you can shoot the seagulls) 
 accompanied by a great musical score can't help but bring a smile to your face.
  
  The main game is fairly lengthy, and will most likely take the average gamer around 15 hours to 
 complete, although there are a fair amount of collectibles and minigames to go back to once the 
 main quest is finished. It's a shame that they aren't more compelling though; there is little reason 
 to go back to them besides novelty (which isn't a bad reason for this game) .
  
  There are, of course some small flaws in the game. One of the negative views you will probably 
 hear most often is in regards to the Temple of the Ocean King. This temple is one that you frequently 
 visit, around five or six times throughout the course of the adventure. The problem lies in the 
 fact that each time, you must go through the puzzles and areas of the dungeon that you went through 
 before to get to somewhere new. It is also timed, so you won't have all the time in the world to 
 navigate this dungeon. Fortunately, it's not all that bad. There are numerous shortcuts you can 
 find that allow you to go through much quicker each subsequent time than you could the first, so, 
 although the temple isn't that terrible, it is redundant, and I believe another, more streamlined 
 solution could have been found.
  
  Also, your arsenal of weapons in this game is really on the small side. Although all of the weapons 
 are unique, none of them are new. I believe that Nintendo could have incorporated some brand new 
 weapons that demonstrate the touch screen controls of the DS just as well as the old mainstays.
 
  
  None of the islands you come across are very large either. This may seem like a minor complaint, 
 and, indeed, it is, but personally, I would have liked some meatier islands to explore.
  Don't allow these few flaws to discourage you, as this is certainly one of the best games that 
 the DS has to offer, which is a considerable statement considering the systems vast library of 
 great games.
  
  Overall, the game is awesome. Great pacing, level/dungeon design, bosses, controls, graphics, and 
 production values make this one of, if not the best games on the DS, and nothing should stop you 
 from purchasing it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: OmegaCookie7
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 8, 2008 7:06 pm PT
Review:  The Legend of Zelda: Phantom Hourglass is probably the most innovative Zelda game to be released 
 to date. It features some of the most creative puzzles in any Zelda game, and videogame for that 
 matter, that I've played, combined with new and interesting ways to use some of the series staple 
 items and cartoony Wind Waker style graphics.
  
  Unlike other Zelda games, Phantom Hourglass is the first title to complete revamp it's control 
 scheme. Rather that using a control pad, the entire game is played solely with the stylus. Everything 
 from attacking, to movement, to using items - everything is done via stylus. And surprisingly well, 
 too. With the exception of some mildly irritating attack motions, the controls are easy to learn 
 and give a breathe of fresh air to the slowly stagnating Zelda format.
  
  In addition, these new controls allow for some new puzzles, which often involve forms of charting 
 maps and other interesting things - such as one puzzle which involves you closing your DS in order 
 to imprint a part of a picture onto one of your maps.
  
  There are also some pretty interesting bosses. Some of the best bosses on a handheld game.
  
 
  Overall it's a new and exciting way to experience the Zelda franchise. Worth a play.
  
  Gameplay: 9.5/10
  Graphics: 9.5/10
  Sound: 8/10
  Replay Value: 7.5/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dinniedraco
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 3, 2008 11:35 pm PT
Review:  Zelda is the only game that I think uses the DS just as the desginers probably wanted it to be.
 
  
  First of all, the game kicks off with a typical start, where Tetra is captured. Link would begin 
 and embark the journey to save her.
  
  I love how the dungeons are built and I have hours and hours of fun solving those puzzles. There 
 are a few temples that we have to go through, which is really fun. However, the Temple of the Ocean 
 King became repititive when I had to go through it for the Nth time. Still. it is bearable as I 
 had new floors to venture into.
  
  Sailing was a breeze with the drawing on the map.
  
  There are plenty of islands to explore and some sidequests. You would be able to wo through the 
 game pretty fast if you ignore those.
  
  The game has plenty of different mini-games, if you count the boss fights as well.
  
  The save 
 function only enables you to return to the entrance, so I had to finish a complete dungeon before 
 switching it off, which is rather troublesome if you are playing outdoors.
  
  My only complain was that it ended to fast. And there wasn't much post-game content.
  
  I am 
 looking forward to the next game!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GamesMaster4Evr
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 29, 2008 3:44 pm PT
Review:  Zelda Phantom Hourglass is really gooooood...... Good graphics, good puzzles, good gameplay, tough 
 bosses. Perfect.
  
  Good
  --------
  * The Gameplay Difficulty gets harder as you go along
  * Cool Unlockable weapons and powers
 
  * Puzzles are hard but nice
  * Nice Storyline
  * Good 3-D Graphics
  
  Bad
  -------------
  * NONE NADA NOPE ZERO ZIP ZILCH
  
  Good game, worth money............. Characters 
 grow on you.........
  GAME IS GOOD........................
  UHhhhhhhhhhhhhh..........
  Typing to fill minimum AGAIN............. OMG STILL MORE BLOA BLABLABLABLABLA BLA BLA BLA BLA BLA 
 BLABLOA BLABLABLABLABLA BLA BLA BLA BLA BLA BLABLOA BLABLABLABLABLA BLA BLA BLA BLA BLA BLABLOA 
 BLABLABLABLABLA BLA BLA BLA BLA BLA BLABLOA BLABLABLABLABLA BLA BLA BLA BLA BLA BLABLOA BLABLABLABLABLA 
 BLA BLA BLA BLA BLA BLABLOA BLABLABLABLABLA BLA BLA BLA BLA BLA BLABLOA BLABLABLABLABLA BLA BLA 
 BLA BLA BLA BLABLOA BLABLABLABLABLA BLA BLA BLA BLA BLA BLABLOA BLABLABLABLABLA BLA BLA BLA BLA 
 BLA BLABLOA BLABLABLABLABLA BLA BLA BLA BLA BLA BLABLOA BLABLABLABLABLA BLA BLA BLA BLA BLA BLABLOA 
 BLABLABLABLABLA BLA BLA BLA BLA BLA BLABLOA BLABLABLABLABLA BLA BLA BLA BLA BLA BLABLOA BLABLABLABLABLA 
 BLA BLA BLA BLA BLA BLABLOA BLABLABLABLABLA BLA BLA BLA BLA BLA BLABLOA BLABLABLABLABLA BLA BLA 
 BLA BLA BLA BLABLOA BLABLABLABLABLA BLA BLA BLA BLA BLA BLABLOA BLABLABLABLABLA BLA BLA BLA BLA 
 BLA BLABLOA BLABLABLABLABLA BLA BLA BLA BLA BLA BLABLOA BLABLABLABLABLA BLA BLA BLA BLA BLA BLABLOA 
 BLABLABLABLABLA BLA BLA BLA BLA BLA BLABLOA BLABLABLABLABLA BLA BLA BLA BLA BLA BLABLOA BLABLABLABLABLA 
 BLA BLA BLA BLA BLA BLABLOA BLABLABLABLABLA BLA BLA BLA BLA BLA BLABLOA BLABLABLABLABLA BLA BLA 
 BLA BLA BLA BLA 
::::::

::::::
UserName: blooddog28
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 25, 2008 6:11 pm PT
Review:  This was the first game I got for my nintendo ds and I loved it! I got a ds last christmas along 
 with this game and the stradagy guide! It is so different from the zelda games for gba! I love 
 getting to have my own ship and upgrade it! The story is great and the fighting is really cool. 
 It also has online and keeps track of your wins losses and ect. The game will last you at least 
 a week and if you are a zelda fan then maybe 3 weeks! the graphics were amazing and the game ran 
 as smooth as butter! You can upgrade your attacks and the weapons you can get are so cool! You 
 can tell they spent a lot of time making this game. Like I said if you can get online or your friend 
 has it then play multiplayer! There is a decent chart of chalanges you can do online or with your 
 friends! I have beaten all but 6! Oh, lol I am getting carried away! They made really good use 
 with the touch screen! 10/10 for that! You use the touch screen for everything! walking, fighting, 
 writing on your map... want me to go on? lol If you have the money then go out and buy this amazing 
 game! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lucario234
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 25, 2008 5:06 pm PT
Review:  Alright to start thins of I love Zelda games so love Zelda games. When I first got thhe game I didnt 
 play it that much (busy playing new super Mario bros.) but whenI did play it I amazed by the the 
 controls and story. I totally loved the touch screen countrols and the story pretty much starts 
 of from where wind walker left of. The story is technacly that lots of earth quakes are hapenning 
 because monsters are comming to there land. Now that some phantom took over the ocean king he cant 
 do anything and tetra was taken away by a mystirious ship the ghost ship. most of the bosses arent 
 to hard but they do some what get harder somewhat. your usual partner Celia (oh no) and there is 
 also Lineback who I persanaly realy thik is acool partner who really is all in it for the treasure 
 but as the game goes on he gets coler and cares about the situatin. but any way I would deffinatly 
 suggest this game. And sorry theres problly lots of miss spealed words I was in a hurry. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MajorKane11
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 19, 2008 8:40 pm PT
Review:  Yes, this game is very addictive. Here's my history with it:
  I got it along with my Ds. I played it, because it was the only game I had. In fact, I didn't play 
 it that long. I got stuck somewhere, got frusterated, and left my ds in the dust. After I got Cod4 
 ds, my ds was much more fun. It was just the MOON craze that got into picking up my ds. I played 
 it (with help from gamefaqs) and beat it. I was so addicted to it, I was playing for hours every 
 day.
  graphics: the cell shaded graphics look very, very good. Even the non cellshaded 3d things look 
 very clear and amazing. 7.5/10
  Gameplay: Very addictive, yet challenging. Lots of fighting, but lots of puzzels. What I didn't 
 like was the tick tac toe type puzzels. Come on, nintendo, are you running out of ideas? 9/10
 
  Sound: No real music during gameplay, except in bosses, but still sound effects are ok. 7/10
 
  Replay: Haven't tried it, but it doesnt look that great.
  My problem with this game: difficulty!!! Its easy in the start, and its easy until you reach the 
 temple of the ocean king. Then your timed. Are you kidding me??? Also, if you die in the temple, 
 you have to start on floor 1, until you get to f.6, (thats were you spawn the rest of the game) 
 Then, the bosses are so EASY! Every one! The last boss was a little harder, but come on. After 
 you find out what to do, it is so easy! Except for one boss, the sea monster thing. That is so 
 ungodly hard I can't even say. It fires balls at you, and in a split second, you have to tie a 
 rope to shoot it back. HARD. I threw my ds at the ground i was so pissed. Oh well, good buy, fun, 
 wierd difficulties, and addictive. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Slyfur
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 19, 2008 12:03 pm PT
Review:  Like I said in most of my other Zelda ratings, Great game!!!!! I'm still working on getting a bomb 
 bag. no bomb bag no bombs, no bombs no cannon, no cannon no competing game, it's so very simple. 
 Someone please help me in getting a bomb bag, if u know how.
  This game is a great addition to the Zelda series, very additive and fun to play. My opinion is 
 that it's the best Zelda game and if you could only get 1 Zelda game then get this. And I also 
 think the console is great too. It's just basically a great game for the DS and Zelda fans. 
  In this game Princess Zelda is taken by the Ghost Ship and it's up to Link to find the three spirits, 
 defeat the bosses and rescue her. This game is just great to play, I'm still playing it. But if 
 i can't get the bomb bag i can't complete the game, help me!!!!! Message me how to get the bomb 
 bag please! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: R2Shelby2
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 19, 2008 8:24 am PT
Review:  The story and gameplay are great fun, and the well-done control scheme makes the game even more 
 enjoyable. The touch screen action is so much fun! I really enjoyed the clever use of the microphone 
 as well. 
  It's quite a bit on the easy side, which means younger players can enjoy it more throroughly, though 
 more experienced gamers might be upset. However, the game was enough fun that I myself wasn't bothered 
 by the low level of difficulty. The only remotely challenging parts were in the timed areas, but 
 it was more of a frustration than a challenge.
  Collectables and whatnot can keep you playing the game even after you've beaten the story, and 
 the download play isn't bad either. Though I can understand why many people would want to trade 
 this game in after a week or so, I myself am going to keep it and play it over and over again. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nmjkl22
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 1, 2008 5:50 pm PT
Review:  This is the best game ever! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! great wi-fi, awesome ,graphics ,sweet game play, great 
 sailing, and the best idea for a game. It is a total 10 out of 10. if you have a DS you should get 
 this game. The story is about somebody kidnaping your best friend and you have to rescue her by 
 geting new swords and bows and arows and bombs and stuff like that. Why get this game because it 
 is the best game that's why duh! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! If you don't have this game you are 
 a LOSER ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! so if you have a DS tis is the game to get.! ! ! ! ! 
 ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! it is even better than most of the wii games ! ! ! 
 ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! so don't get a Play station 3 or PSP get 
 a DS Lite ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! by Nicholas 
::::::

::::::
UserName: wii-boy1
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 9, 2008 10:57 am PT
Review:  this is game is almost perfect.
  i dont undestand why many are saying that the game
  are easy and short, beacause thats WRONG.
  its a great storyline about saving tetra. and listen 
 to the stupid exsuses to linebeck for keeping away from anything dangerus is sometimes a litle 
 fun.
  and its very good graphic for a ds.
  searching for gems or treasure might be a little boring.
  you can set together parts for your 
 ship, BUT you have to search for them. its great and hard puzzles.
  looking for secret island is boring, but its always useful stuff to do ther.
  the phantoms is 
 iritating, and you cant kill them before you get the phantom sword that you get in the end of the 
 game.
  the minigames are really bad.
  at the start you wont feel its very smart to buy at beedle, but trust me it is, you get point for 
 every single item you buy, and with more points you get higher rank, and with higher rank your 
 items get cheaper.
  and you can buy ship parts there.
  this game is almost perfect 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Taggerung66
Rating: 8
Date: Nov 1, 2008 11:26 am PT
Review:  I've always been a fan of hand held Zelda games. From Links Awakening to Oracle of Seasons/Ages 
 and Minish Cap. I, however, didn't feel like I was ever playing Zelda with this game. Sure it was 
 entertaining, but the dungeons were short and not really that creative. Nothing really stumped 
 me and I could finish most within a 20 minute period. I found going back to Molinda (sp?) isle 
 to go to the Temple extremely tedious. Also, my other big qualms with the game were the controls. 
 For the most part they worked fine. But often it was difficult to cancel an attack if you accidently 
 hit the wrong button, link often ran off ledges when you didn't want him to, and volleying power 
 orbs back at the poes was extremely hard with the touch screen input. Now that being said, this 
 game is still enjoyable, just not your traditional Zelda game. Its got plenty to do and lots of 
 things to collect. The weapons are pretty fun to use to, though I was disappointed on the variety. 
 Most of your favorites make an appearance from the bombchu, to the grappling hook. You'll get about 
 10 to 15 hours of fun outta this and probably won't regret it. Just don't expect anything traditional. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Rallen6
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 30, 2008 6:28 am PT
Review:  I have been a zelda fan for a long time, but when i heard it was released on DS I wasn't so sure. Zelda 
 is better with button controls. I decided to buy it, which i did, and i enjoyed it greatly. The way 
 you draw on the map is great, because now i can remeber things easily. And customizing your ship 
 is great. In the Sea moving your ship is great, and shooting with the cannon, and finding lost treasures 
 with the salvage arm is fun, and you grasp the way to do it quickly. The graphics are not the detailed 
 stuff you'd find in FF but it's cute and cool. And even though its a tiny bit too short, all the 
 different things you can do. The way you walk, Throw the boomerang, set the course for a bombchu, or 
 how far you chuck a bomb is all upto your skill with a stylus. And how every boss has a different 
 way to beat it is magical.
  
  Overall score:9, Graphics, Gameplay and story. It has it all 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 12345987651
Rating: 2
Date: Oct 22, 2008 4:25 pm PT
Review:  I liked this game but it was too short and easy. It was start, almost nothing, end. I think the 
 Zelda games are good but.... This game's graphics were flat out, plainly bad PERIOD! I would buy 
 a totally remodeled, redone and remade version but I'll sell this one in a heartbeat. I think if 
 they remade it it should have many, many changes. I think it should be redone, but that is my opinion. 
 The ship and first part were good, but how is it possible to find all the spirit gems? I mean this 
 game is just boring. There is no other way to say it but B - O - R - I - N - G. Not to hurt any 
 of you that like it but the only good part is multiplayer and that is pretty bad too. I think that 
 it could be a longer storyline and a stronger one too, it is way too short. That is all i have 
 to rant about.  : { Thank YOU 
::::::

::::::
UserName: supersmashgamer
Rating: 8.5
Date: Oct 21, 2008 12:15 pm PT
Review:  I was a bit critical on this one, thinking that this would ruin the Zelda series but it was great! They 
 managed to make all the controls work and many are impressive. The sequel to Wind Waker was indeed 
 a success. The story felt a bit short though because i managed to beat it within two weeks. The online 
 play is ok, but it lags sometimes so i prefer not to play online. Now there's a new legendary sword 
 to add into Zelda history called the Phantom Sword which you get late in the game, which is disappointing. In 
 this Zelda game you find heart containers now and not heart pieces which takes the challenging 
 part of the game out, but at least it's easier to get all 20 hearts, which should put relief on some 
 gamers. Overall game is great i just wished it was a bit more challenging and longer too. So basically 
 this falls maybe the middle of the great series but almost at the top of all Zelda games as well. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Bylsma
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 20, 2008 7:44 pm PT
Review:  As you may or may not know, The Legend of Zeda: The Wind Waker was my least favorite Zelda game. 
 With boring temples and slow travelling, i hoped that the sequel would be much better. And to my 
 surprise, it was! All the iritating stuff from the first game has been fixed and new stuff has 
 been added!
  
  --Graphics --
  
  For the DS, PH has great graphics. The cartoony, Cel-Shaded type of graphics they used for Wind 
 Waker is perfect for the DS. The backgrounds are nice and the enemies look cool. Like most games 
 i've commented on, this game has great graphics.
  
  9/10
  
  --Gameplay --
  
  The new Touch Screen controls work almost perfectly. Sribbling on your screen swings your sword, 
 tapping people makes you talk to them, items work fine... everything is great! Now, the two main 
 factors that they fixed in this game from the previous is more exciting temples and a smaller ocean. 
 Compared to the temples in Wind Waker, PH's temples are smaller but they are a lot more fun to 
 play. Some of the puzzles are easy but walking around slashing enemies with your stylus is just 
 plain fun. The boss battles are also a lot better then the Wind Waker ones. Now the ocean has been 
 made into a lot smaller version compared to Wind Waker's. And that's what it should've been the 
 whole time! Ocean was a bad idea to begin with and I was dissapointed they brought it back, but 
 at least they made it better! Not as much time is spent on the Ocean so it actually makes you feel 
 ike your playing a Zelda game. Overall, HUGE IMPROVMENT! But... they did add the Temple of the 
 Ocean King, which was kind of annoying to go back and forth from there, but it's not really a big 
 deal.
  
  8/10
  
  --Music --
  
  It's Zelda? What do you expect? Enough said...
  
  10/10
  
  --Story --
  
  Ignoring the fact that I don't like Wind Waker, I liked how PH's 
 story followed right after. It starts off with Link and Tetra sailing on the ocean (ugh...) looking 
 for the Ghost Ship. When they finally find it, Tetra hops aboard. She then yells a few seconds 
 later and Link jumps in to save her. However, the boat starts to sail away and Link falls into 
 the ocean. He wakes up on a beach with a fairy. She introduces him to her "grandfather" who tells 
 him tales about the ghostship. Later on, Link meets a shipowner named Linebeck and agrees to help 
 Link on his journey to find the Ghost Ship (only to get the treasure in return) . I'm not going 
 to go into full detail, but I will say this, the last boss is an enirely new villain.
  
  9/10
  
  --Overall --
  
  Phantom Hourglass is just a lot more fun then Wind Waker. Most people 
 will disagree, but this is my opinion. Any DS owner should definetley BUY the game, because even 
 once your done playing the adventure, you still have the new Online features to try out.
  
  9/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: G6games
Rating: 4.5
Date: Oct 6, 2008 9:14 pm PT
Review:  this may of been a good Zelda game if it wasn't for the stupid touch screen controllers. First 
 off the castles were way to short and there wasn't even that many puzzles. Another annoying thing 
 is you will have to play the same temple over and over and over and over and over and over again. 
 Its hard to describe but you have to walk though this purple smoke that takes away time from your 
 hourglass. Your being timed to beat it and being pressured to stay away from the knights that can 
 kill you and one go. There is other castle but they are way to short. This game can really damage 
 your DS screen having to slash through emenies with your sword, Another annoying thing is when 
 your on the ship this girl will chase you and stop you maybe like ever 5 minutes. It gets very 
 annoying. I wish I can say something postive about the game but there isn't much. Some of the boss 
 battles are fun but thats it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: chainpaladin
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 4, 2008 5:00 pm PT
Review:  must i say more? hit up a bit and your screen will show you everything you need to know. seriously. 
 it does. i mean this game is flawless and i think that this is the best ds game ever, and the best 
 zelda game ever except for twilight princess, but seriously, how is anyone going to make a better 
 game than that? is it even possible? maybe LONG AFTER I'M DEAD THEY'LL MAKE SOMETHING BETTER but 
 since i won't be around then for very obvious reasons why should i even care? i guess i'll have 
 to stick with what we have now... bbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbb bbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbb bbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbb 
 bbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbb bbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbb bbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbb bbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbb bbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbb 
 bbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbb bbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbb bbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbb bbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbb bbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbb 
 bbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbllll llllllllllllllllllll llllllllllllllllllll llllllllllllllllllll llllllllllllllllllll 
 llllllllllllllllllll llllllllllllllllllll llllllllllllllllllll llllllllllllllllllll llllllllllllllllllll 
 llllllllllllllllllll llllllllllllllllllll llllllllllllllllllll llllllllllllllllllll llllllllllllllllllll 
 llllaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaa aaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaa aaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaa aaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaa aaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaa 
 aaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaa aaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaa aaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaa aaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaa aaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaa 
 aaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaa aaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaa aaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaa aaaaaaaaaaaaaaa 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Flightofdragon
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 3, 2008 2:20 pm PT
Review:  This game ROCKS!!! There's plenty of material to be played here, it wasn't too hard or easy, and 
 the story is absolutely awesome! This was the sequel to Windwaker which I've barely played since 
 I don't own it but this game makes me wish I could've played more Windwaker. People are saying 
 that it was too easy... I didn't think it was too easy (but maybe that's just me) . The only thing 
 they probably should have done is throw in a button control but the touch-screen is fine too; there's 
 no complaint about that. There's actually another bad thing; the FREAKIN' Temple of the Ocean King! 
 They should have made a stopping point after every level so people don't have to repeat the level 
 they've just beaten to get to the next level! Still... this game is awesomely fun though and is 
 a must-get for all ds fans. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mygame-spotfile
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 30, 2008 11:25 pm PT
Review:  Legend of Zelda Phantom Hourglass is altogether an awesome game, very good touch screen capabilities 
 for example when you have to actually close the DS I was stumped that made me think that the game 
 was really smart in some of it's attributes. I have heard many people complain about the Temple 
 of the Sea King, how you have to keep returning to the same place this did bug me despite how i 
 loved this game. If they didn't put in a checkpoint i might have given up on this game like so 
 many others did but i still think its well worth the play. The graphics are very good for DS standards 
 and once again the puzzles are genius and mind-boggling the wi-fi play is fun for a good-laugh 
 and the ability to create your ship has interested some people. The bosses are somewhat different 
 to those that have been in the last games that was a nice thing to see, even though the four poe 
 sisters was similar since you had to attack the magic blasts it was fun to control it with my stylus. 
 The storyline was very amusing, at the end they return to the ship as if nothing had happened then 
 they see linebeck's ship. So in total i was forced to give this game a 9, i wanted to give it 10 
 but the Temple of the Sea King does knock the game down a few pegs. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: robertsol
Rating: 8
Date: Sep 29, 2008 2:06 pm PT
Review:  this is my first review! i love this game, but it could've been a lot better.
  
  This game is enjoyable in many ways. The new stylus controls are simple and fun to use. Graphics 
 for the ds are not that great. Damn nintendo!
  The music keeps repeating over and over and over and over again. It's so annoying!!!!!!!!!!! Damn 
 nintendo again!
  You can complete phantom hourglass in about 7 hours tops. Not including the side-queast.
  
  
 This is a little play about Link's head:
  Me: Holy crap! Look how big that is!
  
  Sean: What! This is the 100,000,000 time you called me!
  
  Me: It's .... Link's big bulggy head! Come 
 look!
  
  Sean: [walks over to the ds] Oh my god! You can land a plane on that thing!
  
  Me: Let's put it on Youtube.
  
  Sean: good idea.
  
  This is a good game, but rent it first. Take 
 my advice for it. If you rent it, you wouldn't have to look at Link's big head again. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: xbox4life76
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 29, 2008 7:41 am PT
Review:  Ok, this review comes to you from a gamer who has never in his life played a Zelda game... ever. 
 Don't ask why or how, all i can say is that I've been a sports gamer since birth and thought as 
 I get older it was time to try some of these other games that I've heard over the years... so i 
 grabbed this one for the DS. Ratings were high for this game, reviews came back decent so i thought, 
 why not. 
  
  My first impression, wow, these graphics are great for a DS game... moving the character throughout 
 the game using the stylus took a bit geting used to but after a while it was fine. For someone 
 like me who is new to the series, I found the story line interesting and kept me amused. Don't 
 care how good a game looks, no story line and i tune out over time.
  
  Then the graphics, and boy was i impressed with that for a DS game. Fairly clear, not too grainy 
 and lots of colors. The action scenes were done very well too.
  
  I've only played this a for a short time but I can say that this game is well worth it even if 
 you're not a fan, cause after you play this, you will become one. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: FelisLeo1980
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 26, 2008 11:11 am PT
Review:  Phantom Hourglass is a perfect choice for people who consider themselves serious DS gamers.
  
  The Legend of Zelda for the Nintendo DS has been long in development and it seems that guys 
 in Nintendo EAD have been busy: Phantom Hourglass is a fully featured Zelda adventure that takes 
 advantage of every aspect on Nintendo DS including its microphone and two separate screens. Unfortunately 
 game also includes one annoying flaw that hinders it from achieving the status of masterpiece.
 
  
  Story starts just where the story of GameCube's Wind Waker ended. This means that Phantom Hourglass 
 may be the very first Zelda game that is a direct sequel to a previous title in this series. If 
 for some reason you missed Wind Waker on GameCube there's no need to worry: key events in that 
 game will be straightened at the beginning of Phantom Hourglass. Pirate captain Tetra takes out 
 to sea with Link and her crew in order to find Ghost Ship, which has been presumably abducting 
 sailors and also some local people living in the islands of Great Sea.
  
  Graphically Phantom Hourglass resembles very closely to its GameCube predecessor up to cartoonish 
 style and light hearted feel overall. Cutscenes are surprisingly plenty and they are rendered in 
 3D, but the actual gameplay happens in 2D environments while the characters are still modeled in 
 3D. This means that the style is the same as in Nintendo EAD's previous title New Super Mario Bros. 
 To modern High Definition standards Phantom Hourglass may be too blocky and crude, but considering 
 DS's hardware it's a great graphical achievement.
  
  Music is also heavily inspired by Wind Waker and especially during sailing sequences the music 
 seems to be a direct copy from a GameCube game. The amount of different sound effects is impressive 
 and I urge you to play it with headphones on so you can listen the whole sound design in all its 
 glory: even the sound of Link's footsteps differ depending on what surface his walking on. I've 
 long been hoping some real voice acting in Zelda games, but in Phantom Hourglass everything is 
 told with text boxes and a few grunts from characters. All this reading works, but it would still 
 be nice to listen instead of reading when playing a videogame.
  
  Controls are all based on the touch screen, although the left shoulder button also sees some intense 
 duty. Pointing with the stylus is very intuitive and you'll get used to it quickly. I hope that 
 after this more and more games are played by using just the touch screen and stylus. Unfortunately 
 there is a small problem: controls are not quite as accurate as you would need them to be in a 
 couple of times during Link's quest. Luckily these instances are few and far between and you'll 
 always get through with a few tries. I will make an assumption that Phantom Hourglass inspired 
 Team Ninja's great work Ninja Gaiden Dragon Sword, of which I've already made a review.
  
  Although Wind Waker's influence is heavily present there are also some subtle differences. Most 
 obvious change is the navigation of Link's boat: instead of waving a stick to wind the course is 
 now drawn to map by using the stylus and then sailing happens automatically. In my opinion this 
 is a nice addition, since it allows player to focus on what's important: traveling from point A 
 to point B. Quite surprisingly the boat also includes some light RPG elements: parts of the ship 
 can be changed and upgraded as you progress the story.
  
  While touch screen has been reserved to controlling the actual action, the upper screen shows a 
 map just like in DS's Castlevania games. Link is forced to solve a number of puzzles so it's mandatory 
 to make notes to your map in order to proceed. DS's microphone is also used both in puzzles and 
 in combat. To sum it up I must say that pretty much every feature of DS is in active use and this 
 means that Phantom Hourglass is a challenging game: despite its small size it's a fully featured 
 Zelda adventure.
  
  Unfortunately there's one big flaw in otherwise fantastic package. Link is forced to return over 
 and over again to one specific place, which is called Temple of the Ocean King. Catch here is that 
 you are supposed enter deeper into the temple each time you visit it. Problem is that you can't 
 start where you were last time and this means that you need to go through those same places over 
 and over again. Frustration rises even higher, because all of this needs to be done under a time 
 limit. About half way through you get a warp so you don't need to start in the beginning, but still 
 this kind of unnecessary extra work in order to proceed is a serious flaw that should not be in 
 a Nintendo game.
  
  Game also includes a light Wi-Fi Battle Mode. You may try it a couple of times, but that's it. 
 In my opinion a game like this doesn't need to have online play in it.
  
  The Legend of Zelda: Phantom Hourglass is a quality game with very few flaws in it. It is a must-buy 
 for anyone, who considers himself to be a serious DS gamer or a Zelda fan. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: flamer400
Rating: 7
Date: Sep 27, 2008 5:54 am PT
Review:  This game is great at first very fun and addicting with chanllenges a things to unlock but some 
 how it stops at the 3 boss you battle and it gets extremly hard and frusturating after a while 
 you have to look for walkthroughs and Action Replays to help you beat the game. You can easily 
 get stuck in the game and have to start all over agian. The part I got stuck in is where you battle 
 a pirate and she is suppoused to be vunerable when she uses a special attack and when you try to 
 attack her she defends herself right away so it is immposible to beat her! It's not a very good 
 game but in some parts it is. It's good but sometimes it's just like My Pokemon Ranch posibly the 
 most boring and most horrific game ever for Wii Ware. I know this is my opion and you may say it's 
 good but it realy is bad! It also has not very good 3-D graphics that is all cuby on circlur 3-D 
 images. Well that concludes my review thanks for reading! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: robingoose
Rating: 8.5
Date: Sep 25, 2008 7:44 am PT
Review:  I like to keep my reviews short and sweet so let me start off with saying I'm a HUGE Zelda fan 
 so this review will cmpaire PHG to old Zelda titles.
  
  The same great adventure is here only the free roaming that the series invented has been, purposely, 
 raped. No more exploring.. There trying to pass it off as free roaming but its not. THe conrtrols 
 are ok but you dont want this sort of thing in your bowl of Zelda cereal.
  
  This is a failed attempt that didnt fail, since people are hailing this game. But I just couldnt 
 get over some of the changes. 
  
  OK this game is still good, even a bad Zelda game is still better than most games. Phantom Hourglass 
 only looks bad campaired to other zelda titles, and i have to admit as much as a masterpice as 
 Twilight princess was i still deen it a dissopointment.
  
  In my opinion the last great Zelda was Windwakerm they havent gotten it right since. Well Minish 
 Cap was fine. 
  
  Play this game, it seems like im bashing it but its still great, or passable. Its a good game but 
 just an "ok" Zelda game, if that makes any sence? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Lycentia
Rating: 9.5
Date: Sep 23, 2008 9:32 am PT
Review:  This game was awesome! It was just like any other Zelda game. Zelda seems to never really change 
 just get better graphics, newer stories, and more fun. 
  
  I absolutely love the use of the stylus in this game! It was so easy to use and so fun. Being able 
 to take notes on your map was great! 
  
  I love the inventiveness for some of the puzzles in this game. I actually had to blow into the 
 mic to blow out some candles to open a door. Brilliant! I also had to close my DS to make an imprint 
 of a map on the wall. More games need to have puzzles like this!
  
  This game has plenty to do other than follow the story and finish the game. Of course as in all 
 Zelda games you can try to get all the hearts in the game. You can also collect power stones and 
 try to power up your fairies. You can collect ship parts and make differnt ships. And you can play 
 against other people in battle mode. There are also some fun mini games like archery and a ship 
 bomb game. 
  
  The story was good and the game had all those Zelda elements you have gotten to love over the years. 
 A+++ go buy this game now if you haven't! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Dragon66116
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 13, 2009 8:12 pm PT
Review:  WARNING MAJOR SPOILERS AHEAD
  
  Wow. This game was epic. It was really fun! This game is a sequel to the previous Zelda game: The 
 Wind Waker.
  
  The game starts out with Link and Tetra (Princess Zelda) on a ship. There have been rumors of the 
 mysterious Ghost Ship sailing around. Tetra finds the ship and gets kidnapped. Link tries to jump 
 on the ship to rescue her but he falls into the ocean.
  
  When Link wakes up he finds himself on an island with a spirit/fairy. She says her name is Ciela. 
 Ciela takes Link to her "grandpa", Oshus. Oshus gives Link a sword and that's when the adventure 
 begins. Later in the game you meet Linebeck, who sails your ship. Your ship in this game is cool. 
 You get to customize it with many different ship parts later in the game. A bad thing comes next: 
 The Temple of the Ocean King. AKA the worst temple in the game. Each time you go in there are these 
 things called Phantoms. When they attack you, you lose time from your Phantom Hourglass. The Phantom 
 Hourglass lets you survive in the temple.
  
  Once you get to the Ghost Ship you will have freed all 3 Spirits (Ciela is one of them) . Once you 
 beat the boss on the Ghost Ship, you find Tetra trapped in stone. Oshus walks in and tells Link 
 the truth. Oshus is the Ocean King. He says you need to kill an evil Phantom known as Bellum. Oshus 
 says you need to kill him with a sword called the Phantom Sword. You get this by going to different 
 islands and collecting metals.
  
  Once you get the Phantom Sword you go back to The Temple of the Ocean King for the last time. On 
 the final floor the battle with Bellum begins. Once you "defeat" him, Tetra returns to normal. 
 But then Bellum is still alive! He kidnaps Tetra once again. Bellum then possesses the Ghost Ship 
 which you must destroy.
  
  After the Ghost Ship is gone for good, Bellum strikes again. He grabs Link and Tetra with his tentacles. 
 Linebeck shows some bravery when he grabs the Phantom Sword. Bellum drops Link and Tetra and absorbs 
 Linebeck and transforms into a super powerful Phantom. Once Link kills Bellum for good Oshus returns 
 to his true form: a whale. He takes Ciela and the two other spirits and returns to the Great Sea. 
 Link and Tetra return to their ship. Link looks from on top of the ship and sees Linebeck for the 
 last time.
  
  Pros:
  Great Story
  Online mode is good
  Good use of the Touch Screen
  AWESOME BOSSES
  Great Graphics
  Interesting Characters
  Some 
 neat Temples
  Cool Mini-Games
  Side-Quests
  Some cool islands
  VERY cool weapons
  
  Cons:
  Temple of the Ocean King
  Can't save after beaten the final boss
  People disconnect 
 in online mode too often
  
  In my opinion this is a very good game. I recommend this to anyone. Even if you haven't played 
 a Zelda game you will love this one.
  
  I give The Legend of Zelda: Phantom Hourglass a 10/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: airdude35939
Rating: 10
Date: Sep 17, 2008 1:57 pm PT
Review:  this game is awsome!!!! if you didnt buy this game yet then what are you waiting for this game 
 rocks!!!!
  
  PS: this game is hard and you will need help with it. 
  
  this game  game  
 game  game  
 game  game  
 game  game  
 game  game  
 game  game  
 game  game  
 game  game  
 game  game  
 game  game  
 game  game  
 game  game  
 game  game  
 game  game  
 game  game  
 game  game  
 game  game  
 game  game  
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Quinzark
Rating: 8.5
Date: Sep 15, 2008 7:11 am PT
Review:  Legend of Zelda! That written on the cover is enough to make me want a game. The only reason I 
 have a DS is because I wanted this game. So now I've passed Phantom hourglass what is my verdict? 
 Do i still hold the same love for the series? Does that small corner of my heart still have a little 
 sword wielding elf chucking a boomerang adorably at it?
  
  Yes... Yes it does. 
  From the perfect use of the stylus for controlling weapons & moving to the mini game like boat 
 travel (which can be skipped by finding the frogs if you don't like it) & all the other mini games 
 it has hidden away, this game is as close to perfect as any game since ocarina of time. Add to 
 that the bonus of Battle mode & it only serves to add a cherry to the top of this wonderful cake. 
 
  If you own a DS & like semi-platform RPG's this is the game for you. If not, why are you reading 
 a Zelda review? Go find a Gears of War page & bring me back a chainsaw bayonet. 
  
  so where did the other 1.5 % go? well you'll know when you find it. 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Miicrox
Rating: 7
Date: Sep 10, 2008 5:22 pm PT
Review:  The first thing I'm going to bring up is the most annoying thing about the game. The classic handheld 
 Zelda formula is still there but the game can be 100% controlled by the touch screen if you want. 
 You can press buttons to bring up menus and such, but you move around and attack with the touch 
 screen. You touch close to Link to make him walk and far away from him to make him run. Walking 
 is something you can't do in previous handheld Zeldas and there are a few of them I think could 
 use it *cough minish cap and link to the past cough*, so it was a nice touch. Attacking in this 
 one is sort of dicey too. You touch enemies to directly attack them, and swipe your stylus to do 
 a horizontal slash. You also roll by make little circles on the touch screen, but that's what's 
 dicey about it. Sometimes when you try to roll it'll register it as an attack and stop Link, slash 
 his sword and keep moving. That was annoying and one of the bigger flaws. There's only two quest 
 logs in this one instead of the usual three, but that isn't the end of the world unless you share 
 your game with a lot of people. The other thing I found slightly annoying is the item menu doesn't 
 act as a pause screen anymore, it's just a little bar on the bottom that you touch to bring up 
 the items, and you equip them one at a time a la Link to the Past. It's pretty annoying because 
 for some enemies you're gonna need two items to beat, and it's hard to equip the other item with 
 the enemy wailing on you mercilessly. Phantom Hourglass is a direct sequel to The Wind Waker for 
 Gamecube, which is my favourite Zelda game next to Twilight Princess and so I bought this one thinking 
 it would be just as good as Wind Waker. I'm not saying the game is BAD. I think the touch screen 
 navigation is more fun than just moving around with the dpad, and it gives you a little bit more 
 control of your movements. I just think there's too many flaws than its worth.
  The game starts with a cute slideshow of the events of Wind Waker (but I won't get into that) , 
 then Link, Tetra, and the pirate gang are on the boat. After some chatter, a ghost ship pulls up 
 next to them and takes Tetra. That's your objective in the game, pretty much, you run around this 
 place (I think it's the Great Sea, humour me though) and find a bunch of stuff in order to save 
 her. I always liked the exploration aspect of Zelda, there's always lots to do after you beat the 
 game, and this one's no different.
  
  Another annoying aspect is the super duper, incredibly annoying, makes you wanna rip your hair 
 out Temple of the Ocean King. You have to go there after every main dungeon and get a part of your 
 sea chart so you can explore more of the sea. But you have to go through everything you went through 
 during your previous visit to get back to where you were, and then there's a couple more rooms 
 after that. I think it could have been designed a little bit better, but it's required to progress 
 through the game so you can't really complain a whole lot.
  
  Anyways, my advice to all players thinking of purchasing this game is you might not get too far 
 if you're easily frustrated. It's all around fun, and a good purchase nonetheless. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Aires457
Rating: 9.5
Date: Sep 10, 2008 9:02 am PT
Review:  The Legend of Zelda: Phantom Hourglass for the DS was outstandingly fun. The story mode wasn't 
 very fun and was pretty hard at times but the mini side mysteries were hecka fun to solve. The 
 game is very short and I beat it really quickly the just tried to get all the upgrades and all 
 the treasure chests. The multiplayer is very fun but I don't have wifi for my ds so I could only 
 play it with my sister or my brother. Also the game was very funny like there was this old man 
 who saw a mermaid and for the rest of his life he hunted that mermaid and I met the mermaid and 
 she told me she wasn't really a mermaid but she was just dressing up as one to go swimming and 
 then I told her about the old man and she went to live with the old man and I talked with her afterwards 
 and she said I'm only staying here with him cause he's a fisherman and he catches me salmon I love 
 salmon so much. There are a bunch of islands and one of them is called dee ess island (DS) and 
 as you approach it, it looks like a DS and when you get there you can walk around and step on the 
 buttons and you can walk on the screens and there is a minigame there which is pretty fun and can 
 earn you awesome items and rupees. Thanks for Reading! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Shy_Guy_Red
Rating: 10
Date: Sep 9, 2008 6:08 pm PT
Review:  Until recently, I thought that the DS was all about new IPs, that franchises couldn't use the DSs 
 features to its fullest and that they had to stick with the same formula and add a little touch 
 controls here and there and maybe a little 2 screen thing or something. That was what happened 
 with NSMB, MKDS, Pokemon D/P, and Kirby: Squeak Squad. Kirby Canvas Curse gave me hope, but no 
 franchise since then had really used the DS to make an installment that could be called as good 
 as its predecessors. That is, until I played The Legend of Zelda: Phantom Hourglass.
  
  Phantom Hourglass doesn't just use the touch screen to its fullest, which surprised me. It also 
 uses the 2 screen feature as well as the microphone many many times and it doesn't feel pushed 
 on, it feels great and it's always fun to shout into the DS (just make sure there aren't any people 
 around) . =P
  
  Getting into detail about this, the touch screen is used to control all of Link's movement as well 
 as all of his items, and it works great! I really hope to see a sequel for the DS or the next handheld 
 that is like this because it is really fun. You touch enemies to have Link swing at them which 
 seems easy, but enemies will have shield and blockers much earlier in the game and you have to 
 figure out how to kill each one. To sum it up, the controls mean you can't move while using items 
 and it's easier to attack fast, so the enemies were made more difficult and the dungeons were made 
 slightly more linear then past installments, although I didn't notice it. Also, using the touch 
 screen to sail is a blast! It makes sailing easier, and the islands were made shorter away from 
 each other so you won't be sailing for a while like you did in Wind Waker. The sailing is nice 
 and smooth here.
  
  Also you will use the microphone at certain parts of the game but not much. However, midway through 
 you will find enemies in which the only way to beat them is to scream into the microphone slot 
 while facing them. O_o I know, it's actually real cool and I wish we saw the enemies a lot more 
 then just in 1 dungeon. This is really the only points you use it and I wish it was used more but 
 I guess Nintendo doesn't want you to only play the game when no one is around. =P
  
  The 2 screens are used to hold a map which you can switch to at any time and use to draw notes 
 on. You will be using this note taking method a lot throughout the game and it's real neat and 
 I also hope to see this feature return in later Zelda games. It's real cool. You'll constantly 
 be referring to it and using it. But the best part is that during every boss battle you'll have 
 to use the 2 screens in some way to beat the boss. This makes almost every boss battle memorable, 
 the way they use the 2 screens and figuring out how to beat them. It's just so fun and cool and 
 it really makes you love each boss battle. 
  
  Another great new addition this installment has is multiplayer! Yes, a Zelda game with multiplayer 
 and it even has Wi-Fi. And the best part is that it works! It's fun, challenging and you and your 
 friends won't want to stop playing it. It's a Pac Man like game. but with safe zones and a slightly 
 different objective, as well as items. I haven't played online yet but plan to. It's really fun 
 and you should try it out, since it's single pack compatible.
  
  Aside from all the great new features this game has, the graphics are great, the story is good, 
 and surprisingly, it is long and the difficulty is good. Some may find it easy, but I found it 
 to be just right. The only problem this game has is the music. There are I think only 10 at the 
 most songs in this game, which is horrible. I really wish Nintendo put more great songs into this 
 masterpiece, so that I could give it a 10.
  
  To sum things up, LoZ: PH uses the DS features to its fullest and it is one game you won't forget. 
 Not only that but it has flawless multiplayer and really the only problem is the music. If you 
 have a DS, this is the game to buy.
  
  Actual Score: 9.75 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Il_Exile_lI
Rating: 6.5
Date: Sep 7, 2008 9:54 pm PT
Review:  Why Nintendo, Why? Why must you always force feed us, the loyal consumer, these gimmicks and ridiculous 
 attempts at innovation? 
  The Legend of Zelda Phantom Hourglass would be a worthy addition to any Zelda fan's collection 
 if not for one basic flaw that hinders the entire game to the point where it doesn't even resemble 
 a Zelda game. 
  I'll preface my following review by saying that I am as big a Zelda fan as anyone will ever meet. 
 When I buy a Zelda game, I tend to play through it anywhere from 3-15 times. That being said, I 
 could not even bring myself to finish Phantom Hourglass. The controls in this game are absolutely 
 atrocious. The worst part about this is that they were completely unnecessary. Why not just let 
 the player choose to use buttons or the touch screen. Why was I forced to use only the touch screen 
 for every single action?
  This game was so disappointing because the same attention to detail and quality you will find in 
 games like Ocarina of Time and Twilight Princess are present in this game as well, but are overshadowed 
 by the terrible controls. It was very refreshing to see them take a new twist on the classic Zelda 
 format by mixing up the story a bit and adding a new and unique cast of characters. I loved Wind 
 Waker and was eager to continue the story, and this one was good as well and kept the same cartoony 
 vibe as Wind Waker, and I loved that. However, all of these possitives have to be taken with the 
 disclaimer that if you don't like touch screen only controls, you will not like this game.
  Despite the fact that this game has all the ingredients required for a top notch Zelda game, it 
 is not one because of the controls. Moving a pen across a screen just does not feel like Zelda 
 to me, and I still fail to understand why Nintendo forced this upon us. Why not just give us an 
 option when choosing a control scheme. I highly recommend this game to any Zelda fan that like 
 touch screen only controls, but everyone else avoid at all costs. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Crystal_Command
Rating: 10
Date: Sep 5, 2008 3:35 pm PT
Review:  Ahh a game of puzzles, great but some areas are a letdown, e. g. only 2 swords in the game. However 
 with a few letdowns comes a lot of positive ideas. I like the control system for this handheld 
 because every feature is used, including closing your DS and opening it again.
  
  Considering the Adventure it has unique improvements espicially on sailing as Wind Waker and story 
 twists galore. I like the phantom Sword it kills phantoms but you must be a backstabber, although 
 its pretty funny.
  One other aspect I like is The "Resetting Dungeon" or The temple of The Ocean King. its great cause 
 each time you come back theres something new everytime.
  
  Multiplayer is wicked I just love cornering Link in a small area and moving in slowly, nice touch 
 with Item Trading, helps get 100%
  
  Overall the game posseses many new things and old (Classic theme remix from Ocaria of time/ Wind 
 Waker) and now to get more Battle points on Wi-Fi. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Marrium1
Rating: 9.5
Date: Sep 1, 2008 11:31 am PT
Review:  Zelda, Nintendo's greatest standby, always grand in one way or another. In this Zelda game you 
 play as the cartoony wind waker link. This time though the adventure is totally different. I don't 
 like to spoil though so I won't be telling you much. Basically Tetra and Link find the ghost ship 
 so they board it to get the treasure inside. Then tetra is captured. Later you find yourself on 
 an island with a fairy. You tell the fairy what just happened to your friend Tetra and the adventure 
 begins
  
  Gameplay- This games controls are amazing. To move your character you use the stylus kinda like 
 you would control a computer character. To use your sword you tap or "slash" in a direction or 
 to use Link's signature spin move you make a circle around your character. Items have been changed 
 to make this game different from the others. Your boomerang is controlled by the stylus and is 
 very good for hitting levers and collecting items out of your reach. You also get many other items 
 some of them never seen in Wind Waker like a shovel (obvious on what it does) and a bomb you can 
 control using the stylus. You will also find in this game that some of the items have been added 
 to such as the grappling hook can now act as a tightrope or a slingshot or even bounce back projectiles. 
 The temples are extremely creative. There is a temple you must go back to all the time using your 
 phantom hourglass once the hourglass runs out you will take damage over time. There are also guards 
 that are impossible to defeat until you get the phantom sword. In this temple you must get the 
 sea chart so you can explore the sea. there are 4 sections of sea each with 1,2, or 3 temples. 
 
  
  Graphics: You cannot argue that Toon Link's games have always had solid graphics (mostly because 
 there has only been two.) Also his games have much more expression. Faces can be hilarious in this 
 game not even words are needed for you to laugh.
  
  Value: HOW CAN YOU REFUSE TO BUY THE GREATEST DS GAME OUT THERE!!! Even 35.00 is a small price 
 to pay for such a great game!!! 
  
  Sound: Classic music = Classy Sound the sound is great as it is in all Zelda games noting special 
 though...
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: ARMonkey57
Rating: 10
Date: Aug 29, 2008 12:10 am PT
Review:  This game is AMAZING! It brings in tons of new characters into the Legend of Zelda series, not 
 to mention the game play i exciting and revolutionary. And, as if the game wasn't amazing enough, 
 they've added wi fi so hard core Zelda fans can compete to see who is truly the biggest fan and 
 the best player. This game has received great reviews, which makes many people disappointed when 
 they finally play the game for themselves, but this game will not disappoint, I promise. With the 
 Nintendo DS's touch screen, it becomes a truly hands on experience. No longer do you have to move 
 an analog stick, all you have to do is swipe the screen, and Link performs the intended action. 
 I give this game a 10/10 ('Cause it's just real stupid when people say things like 11/10) . So my 
 advice to you is to get the game and worship my mad reviewing skills. Thank you for reading! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: thebrainyflip
Rating: 10
Date: Aug 28, 2008 11:33 am PT
Review:  The Legend of Zelda: Phantom Hourglass is one of the most amazing games I have ever played on DS. 
 I believe that there are five factors that make a game a classic one or one that should be forgotten 
 instantly. Graphics, control system, audio/music, game play and originality. 
  The graphics, as many Zelda fans will know, are very much like those in Wind Waker and I can only 
 describe them in one word. Stunning. Never have I seen such stunning graphics for such a small 
 console.
  If ever there was a prize for the most innovative and easy to use controls for the DS, it would 
 have to go to Phantom Hourglass. Running around is nothing new but at least it's better than using 
 the directional pad. Sword usage is where Phantom Hourglass comes into its own. The ease of using 
 your sword to fight enemies is simply perfect. It's easy to learn and easy to use. The items Link 
 uses have great control mechanisms also. The boomerang is inventive yet simple to use, just like 
 the bow and arrow and the grapple hook. Controlling the bomb-chus has to be my personal favourite. 
 Also, the controlling of your boat around the seas is also very easy and bombing is fun too. 
 
  When designing a game, it's not all about the game play. If there's rubbish music in the background, 
 then the game just loses its magic. Phantom Hourglass has excellent music, to say it bluntly. Boss 
 battles are so much more interesting if there's great music on that helps you pummel them.
  Game play is similar to other Zelda games. You fight your way through the temples or dungeons to 
 beat the boss at the end. Simple yet addictive. By the way, I love the temple designs and some 
 of the puzzles are fantastic. The search for the Aquanine in the Northeastern Sea has to be my 
 favourite.
  Originality is where Phantom Hourglass comes into its own. Developers seem to have forgotten that 
 the DS has a microphone but Phantom Hourglass uses it marvellously. Whether it's shouting to a 
 Goron to step on a switch or blowing out candles, the microphone is used well. The control system 
 is original and that makes the game just so easy to play. It's not a chore like some other games 
 seem to be.
  In conclusion, the Legend of Zelda: Phantom Hourglass is one DS game every DS owner should have. 
 And if you like Zelda, you'd be a traitor if you didn't pick up this one. Just one question remains: 
 Will the next Zelda ever top this?
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: ardyfardy
Rating: 10
Date: Aug 26, 2008 6:02 pm PT
Review:  I am a huge Legend of Zelda fan and like playing games on my DS. This combination of touch screen 
 and classic Zelda gaming turned out totally awesome!! This game was so fun I couldn't put it down 
 until I beat the whole thing and when I did I was sad it was over. Hopefully there will be more 
 games ilke this one and of coarse more Zelda games. This is by for my favorite game for the DS 
 so far. It incorporated just about every function of the DS. I liked drawing on you map to make 
 tips for when you went back to that spot or to circle chests etc. Even using the microphone to 
 blow out fire was awesome. Any Legend of Zelda lovers should and will like this game and will love 
 how they made it touch friendly. This game is similar to the Wind Waker graphic wise and isn't 
 as hard as some of the other ones which makes it great for all ages. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BigBadMatty
Rating: 9.5
Date: Aug 26, 2008 2:07 pm PT
Review:  This game presents an awesome new way to envision the Zelda franchise. You go after three different 
 spirits aided by Captain Linebeck, Oshus, and his little ''fairy friend''. This outstanding game 
 sends around all the corners of the ocean navigating a customizable ship on your touch screen. 
 You must fight evil dark forces as you struggle to find the spirits of Power, Wisdom and Courage 
 to save Tetra who really is Princess Zelda. You may be tempted to give in as you fight numerous 
 destructive creatures, such as phantoms, but Link never gives in. It is rare that DS games really 
 have good graphics (although they are improving) but The Legend of Zelda: Phantom Hourglass really 
 delivers it also has great controls and sound. The only annoying thing that has been carried on 
 from the other games is when Link finds an item and does this dance that wastes otherwise valuable 
 time. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: acc2379
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 26, 2008 11:31 am PT
Review:  This game was very fun to play, not only was it a good DS game... but a good game in general. Takes 
 excellent advantage of the stylus controls (although at times I wish you could just move around 
 with the D-pad when my hand gets tired) . Dungeon puzzles are quite fun and involve a bit of thinking 
 at times.
  Story is ok, not fantastic but probably won't notice because of how fun it is.
  Music and sound effects are top notch as well.
  
  My only real complaint is a lot of the battles 
 are too easy (whether it be boss or otherwise) , but I guess this isn't really anything new for a 
 Zelda game. Honestly the hardest parts I found were when I was attacked unmercifully in my boat.
 
  
  Have not played the multi-player that much, but it appears to be better than most games that just 
 have wifi modes just to claim that they have a wifi mode. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Nikki-S
Rating: 9.5
Date: Aug 26, 2008 11:17 am PT
Review:  What I love about this game is that unlike alot of adventure/puzzle style games on the DS, you 
 control everything with the pen. To walk you point the pen where you want Link to move, to attack 
 you swipe at or tap the enemy and so on. Not only that but it also makes use of the other DS functions 
 such as the mic, for example there are times when you need to shout out to people through it (and 
 let everyone in the same room as you question your sanity!) , or blow out candles. Obviously as 
 its the DS it makes use of both screens too, usually the top one being a map but in boss fights 
 to show either the boss or their point of view which is a nice touch. Another funky feature is 
 that you have to sign for some items/letters you receive through the post, you can write things 
 you might need to remember on maps etc. So yeah its some of the little things in the game which 
 I think makes it that more charming n awesome!
  
  As for the story, well honestly I haven't played all of the Zelda games so I don't know much about 
 the previous. One of the good things about the game is you don't really NEED to have played th 
 others to enjoy it. It gives a brief summary of its predecessor at the start too so your not really 
 left in the dark if your not a dedicated Zelda fan already. Could be a bit longer is all I can 
 say about it I guess. Other than that yeah its great. 
  
  Comes with the basic Zelda style gameplay of having to journey through a number of dungeons and 
 eventually kill the bad guy but even though its a common theme for the games, its still not boring. 
 That being said, having to run through the temple of the Ocean King so many times can be a bit 
 frustrating.
  
  Graphics, same style as The Wind Waker. Sort of cartoony. I love them though, so crisp and colourful. 
 Even though its cel-shaded also comes with some pretty nice effects too. A win again.
  
  There are also some things you can do which arn't vital to the story as well, such as collect treasure 
 maps and do side quests or collect power/wisdom/courage gems to make you stronger etc. So replay 
 value is there if you wanna try n get anything you've missed.
  
  Overall its a brilliant game, provides entertainment as well as giving an all around Zelda and 
 DS experience by making use of pretty much all of the DS's functions. Best of all, it works well 
 with the classic Zelda gameplay. Definitely worth a go even if your not a fan of the series already. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: graffiti14
Rating: 10
Date: Aug 26, 2008 6:13 am PT
Review:  Ever played any of the original Zelda games on the old gameboy colours?
  Well you're in for a shock
  In this new zelda game zelda has gone cartoon!
  
  The storyline 
 is the normal zelda one, the princess is trapped, quick go save her!!
  
  The controls are based entirely on the DS' Touchscreen, you move, attack, jump, anything you can 
 think of is pretty much done with a movement of your stylus.
  The graphics are amazing for our lil DS' system, the cartoony style may put old Zelda fans off 
 at first, but don't worry you'll soon fall in love with them. The sound is varied and of a high 
 standard. Although the main story can be slightly tedious at times it is full of class, and with 
 all the other little side bits, like finding un-mapped islands and getting ship parts etc the length 
 of time you'll be playing this for is doubled at least.
  
  Sound: 10/10
  Graphics: 10/10
  Playability: 10/10
  Fun: 10/10
  Overall: 10/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: PHANTOMCLOCK
Rating: 10
Date: Aug 21, 2008 8:55 pm PT
Review:  It's kind of shocking when you think about it, but despite the Nintendo DS's nearly three-year 
 lifespan, The Legend of Zelda: Phantom Hourglass is the first Zelda game to hit the system. The 
 good news is that it was worth the wait. Phantom Hourglass is essentially a sequel to the GameCube 
 Zelda adventure The Wind Waker. It retains the art style, surrounding world, and plot of that game, 
 but it revamps the mechanics for DS use. The result is a game that is unmistakably Zelda, with 
 its perilous dungeons, tricky puzzles, and engaging boss battles; at the same time, Phantom Hourglass 
 is a unique and innovative entry in the series due largely to its exclusively touch-screen-based 
 control scheme. Everything you do in the game involves taps and swipes of the stylus, from traditional 
 fights and puzzles, to new and specialized functions that really change the way you think about 
 playing a Zelda game 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DannyRice
Rating: 9.5
Date: Aug 19, 2008 8:25 pm PT
Review:  The Good: Excellent graphics; all-new music; the most revolutionary control scheme in years on 
 a handheld; a refreshingly unique story among Zelda games; a cool new map system that completely 
 changes puzzle solving; a huge world to explore; fun new multiplayer.
  
  The Bad: Pacing is awkward, especially with level design.
  
  Zelda's come a long way. A 1987 
 classic with just a couple buttons, a kid wearing green and a funny hat, and a giant world called 
 Hyrule with secrets waiting to be found launched one of the biggest gaming franchises in history. 
 More recognizable than any Nintendo character save Mario, Link's new quest to save the princess 
 always sells millions of copies and are each eagerly anticipated.
  
  American gamers didn't appreciate Wind Waker as expected, because many thought the game looked 
 too 'childish.' The fact is that gameplay, not game rating and graphic style, makes a game good. 
 So Wind Waker, the first 3-D Zelda Eiji Aonuma, the new Zelda director, had the time to put his 
 heart and soul into, went underappreciated. Because of the 'disappointment' of the first big Zelda 
 game, Nintendo's fanbase slowly disintegrated, despite how good the game actually was, not to mention 
 the strong Metroid Prime franchise, Super Smash Bros., and Capcom's support.
  
  So, while it was a natural decision to make the next console Zelda look more mature, and in the 
 fashion of the famous Ocarina of Time, Aonuma still wanted to go back to the new world on the sea 
 he'd created. This leads us to the DS sequel to Wind Waker, Phantom Hourglass.
  
  The game begins by going over the story arc of Wind Waker, as this game occurs not long after its 
 conclusion. Tetra the pirate was revealed to be Princess Zelda, and the young yet heroic Link saved 
 her from the clutches of Ganondorf. Now they're out at sea with the other pirates, when Tetra tries 
 exploring what appears to be a Ghost Ship (looking for treasure) , but screams when she gets on 
 the boat. Link chases after her, but falls into the sea, and gets lost.
  
  When Link comes to on Mercay Island, he sets out on a quest to save Tetra from the Ghost Ship, 
 which can only be done with the help of the three Fairy Spirits of Courage, Wisdom and Power.
 
  
  Only after finding and rescuing them and reviving the power of the Ocean King, protector of the 
 sea, can Link face the monster controlling the Ghost Ship: Bellum. This giant squid monstrosity 
 controls Phantoms that are patrolling the Temple of the Ocean King, which houses in it directions 
 to the spirits and sea charts that can guide Link.
  
  The hero must journey into this temple multiple times to find his course, but must utilize the 
 Phantom Hourglass to do it. This weapon allows him to survive the insides of the temple for a limited 
 time, but without being turned into a weapon, Link can't fight the Phantoms and Bellum and finally 
 save Zelda.
  
  The graphics in the game, as expected from a first party Nintendo title, are some of the best on 
 the system. The quality, in fact, will remind you of Ocarina of Time and Majora's Mask from the 
 N64.
  
  The cartoon art style from Wind Waker is back, and despite the complaints of American gamers, these 
 are wonderful. I certainly have no issues with them, as said, because it doesn't matter what age 
 group the game is shooting for, it's whether it's any good or not. And it's certainly good.
  
  The music is as high quality as you'd expect from Zelda. Many tunes sound familiar, especially 
 if you've played Wind Waker, but not in a bad way. They're still all fun and, as far as I know, 
 completely new.
  
  The sound effects are all great, and Ciela, your fairy (and also the cursor for your stylus) speaks 
 in the same voice Navi did, but probably won't bug you as much. Other characters don't have any 
 voice acting going for them, but Zelda's been like that for awhile... 20 years, actually... and 
 it's not expected on a handheld.
  
  Still, as mentioned in most Twilight Princess reviews, voice acting needs to come soon to keep 
 Zelda gaming modern. Link, on the other hand, is at his best as a heroic mute.
  
  The gameplay is where Phantom Hourglass truly shines. The control scheme doesn't utilize a single 
 button. Instead, you can hit a couple menus on the screen and equip items with a button in the 
 top of the screen, but moving Link, using all those items, talking, and every other function is 
 stylus-only.
  
  Nintendo's new plan to make games that can appeal to hardcore and new gamers simultaneously is 
 clearly involved in this game. The game's puzzles are still challenging and there's plenty to do 
 outside the main quest that's even more difficult, but the control scheme can be gotten into by 
 anyone. Yet that's not a bad thing, as it's easily the best control scheme I've ever used on a 
 handheld.
  
  Zelda is known for this type of revolutionary ideas, and pulling them off without flaw. The first 
 Zelda invented the bird's eye view perspective, Ocarina of Time invented the targeting system to 
 add fun and less complication to battle, and Twilight Princess was the first to execute aiming 
 with the Wiimote, well. But this is one of the biggest revolutions in gaming history, not even 
 using one button.
  
  The story is still all about saving the princess, but it's not a run-of-the-mill Zelda story either. 
 While most old Zelda titles followed the same plan, the games are fortunately changing things up. 
 Wind Waker used the sea and a host of unique new characters to mix up the plot. Twilight Princess 
 involved the Twili and focused on an entirely new species, and a new main enemy, and changed Zelda 
 and Ganondorf's positions in the story.
  
  Phantom Hourglass is more of a reminder of Majora's Mask though. Neither follows the traditional 
 plan of battling Ganondorf, both are a sequel, and both do things no one would expect. Phantom 
 Hourglass does have saving the princess to it, unlike Majora's Mask, but it uses a completely unique 
 plot. The Triforce isn't incorporated, and neither is anything involving the Sacred Realm, the 
 Master Sword, or Sages, which are generally Zelda staples.
  
  Instead, the legend of the Ocean King and Bellum, his adversary, creates a fresh new plotline for 
 the game during your quest for the girl.
  
  It's this originality that I focus on so much because Phantom Hourglass is chalk full of it. You 
 can now customize your ship, and control it by charting a course, than shoot bombs at enemies while 
 you go. You swing your sword by slashing the screen, aim your bow with the stylus, chart your boomerang's 
 path while holding the stylus on the screen, and make a path for your bombchus. It all makes the 
 game tons better.
  
  The multiplayer isn't Four Swords, of course, but it's definitely fun. Competing for Force Gems 
 against your friends, or on Wi-Fi, and controlling three Phantoms simultaneously is a big change, 
 even from Zelda multiplayer, which there isn't much of.
  
  In fact, since the game is extremely long with all the sidequests (especially making the best ship 
 you can) , there's not much to complain about.
  
  The only gripe is, infamously, the Temple of the Ocean King. It involves a lot of sneaking, you're 
 timed, and you'll be chased by invincible Phantoms all but the last time through. Well, there are 
 some ways to kill them or stun them before then, but it stills gets tiresome since you go in either 
 five or six times, since you go through the same part multiple times. However, the game will teach 
 you to use the map effectively by doing this, which is an important aspect to it.
  
  I can't call it a good part to the game, but it's not as awful as generally believed. It's easy 
 to fly through it up till the new parts, and get ship parts on your way, if you do your best with 
 the map. You can even skip one of the trips through (you can get the third and fourth sea charts 
 at the same time) . But it is more bad than good.
  
  The other levels are also very short, to balance out that the Temple of the Ocean King is repeated 
 so often. That's unfortunate, because the other levels are a lot of fun. They have tons of unique 
 puzzles and often involve species that are either familiar or never before seen in the Zelda franchise.
 
  
  So generally, the level design is unevenly paced, a moderately large complaint, and makes the game 
 feel like it was rushed to store shelves a little bit.
  
  But really, it's the only complaint to be had. The game is still tons of fun. The Temple of the 
 Ocean King often makes people want to lower the score, but the point is that it's easy if done 
 right, and it comes back to bite you if you mess up.
  
  I'm not saying it's a good part of the game, it's certainly the worst, but it's not as awful as 
 believed. Plus, there's so much else to do outside of the temples, and in multiplayer, that it 
 can give you a break from that particular issue. Phantom Hourglass has the right to be called one 
 of the best on DS for a reason, and one of the best Zelda games ever made, on any platform. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ZookGuy
Rating: 9.5
Date: Aug 16, 2008 9:56 am PT
Review:  Although the DS's strong point isn't adventure games, The Phantom Hourglass is one of the DS's 
 best games. Let me start with the graphics, wow I thought the PSP was the only handheld that could 
 do this. Turns out I'm wrong, although one won't mistake the graphics for the PS2 or home consoles, 
 there still good. The artwork and character designs are excellent. Probably the best handheld of 
 2007, I might even go far enough to say the best game of 2007 if it wasn't for Super Mario Galaxy. 
 The stylus controls are very smooth and simple to learn so expect to give the stylus a workout, 
 not the buttons. Story: Although it is as old as the hills, they make it feel fresh, if it wasn't 
 for the long and rater dull cutscenes I would be giving this game a ten. Overall, in a year without 
 many good games, The Phantom Hourglass is a breath of fresh air. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ffmotorsports51
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 15, 2008 5:56 pm PT
Review:  I got this game for Christmas last year. I enjoyed it. The touch features using your stylus are 
 a great addition to the game. You can control Link a little easier, and you can even control the 
 boomerang path! That's really cool. I liked the story in this game. It's really cool traveling 
 The Great Sea. The thing that's annoying though is that monsters pop up out of nowhere really annoying 
 you. Your ship does not have much health, so if your ship gets destroyed, you have to sail all 
 over again to your destination. I wish that they would have put a monster blocker in this game, 
 so monsters in the sea do not appear. The gameplay is amazing, but a tad easy. The bosses are good 
 to battle. I had a great time with this game. Overall, great game for the Nintendo DS, added touch 
 features are a bonus, good gameplay, good story, and lots of mini games to do. A good game to add 
 to your DS collection. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TissueShoe
Rating: 9.2
Date: Aug 14, 2008 5:16 pm PT
Review:  Positive: - fun, reliable touch control scheme - great graphics - lots of stuff to collect - makes 
 use of (literally) every DS function imaginable - dungeons are pretty fun - boss battles make clever 
 use of both screens - writing on the map is a great feature - multiplayer and online features are 
 nice -
  
  Negative: - the adventure is short and pretty easy - going through The Temple of the Ocean King 
 several times throughout the game can be pretty repetitive -
  
  The Legend of Zelda is a series famous for its consistency in great games, whether it be the revolutionary 
 Ocarina of Time on the Nintendo 64 or the Wii launch title Twilight Princess. Zelda's 3-D games 
 aren't the only ones that have been praised, however: fans still rave about SNES classic A Link 
 to the Past and 2005's Minish Cap on the GBA was also well-liked. Now, the series takes a natural 
 move onto the DS. Phantom Hourglass is a real winner in the series and on the system, making use 
 of every DS function imaginable and delivering that same old Zelda experience we've all come to 
 love.
  
  Phantom Hourglass is a follow up to The Wind Waker, and the story takes place pretty soon after 
 its predecessor. Link, Tetra/Zelda, and the pirate crew are on an adventure to find new lands when 
 they encounter the ghost ship, and Tetra is taken aboard. Link tries to jump onto the ship to save 
 her, but falls into the water and wakes up on Mercay Island, where he meets a fairy, Ciela. Link 
 soon finds out what he must do to save his friend and later becomes involved in an even more important 
 adventure to stop the evil monster Bellum. The story is pretty good, and many memorable characters 
 such as Linebeck make the dialogue interesting.
  
  Phantom Hourglass is played in the style of the 2-D Zelda games with a bird's eye view, but everything 
 is in 3-D. Essentially, it's a new definition of 2.5-D. You move Link by directing him with the 
 stylus, which works very well and is almost as reliable as a regular control stick or D-pad. You 
 attack by touching an enemy or swiping the touch screen, and you roll by drawing circles on the 
 edge of the screen. All the action is there on the bottom screen, but the map on the top screen 
 is incredibly handy and useful, and you can even write notes on it! There are also a handful of 
 nifty button shortcuts that make equipping items and bringing down the map all the quicker, and 
 they're nice to use when you figure them out.
  
  The regular Zelda gameplay is evident in the game as you go through a dungeon and find your way 
 to the next, but the game's huge world is traversed on a boat, and that's where Linebeck comes 
 in. Although your reluctant helper can prove annoying on the journey for the hero, he provides 
 transportation, which is essential to getting anything done. When you set sail, you draw your route 
 on the touch screen and the boat proceeds to move along your set path. As you go along, you can 
 shoot bombs with your cannon or salvage for treasure. 
  
  Of course, the bulk of Phantom Hourglass is, like in all other Zelda games, the dungeons. This 
 time around, the dungeons are really fun but almost disappointing at the same time. Of course, 
 going through a dungeon has always been great fun, but in Phantom Hourglass, most of the dungeons 
 present little to no challenge. They're generally really easy. I hardly broke a sweat getting through 
 the first five dungeons or the game and I normally am in need of a guide right off the bat in a 
 Zelda game. While the lack of challenge is a bit disappointing, the puzzles are still great and 
 extremely clever. Of course, you also have your arsenal of items to help you, and the touch screen 
 is put to good use when you're using these items, like drawing a path for your boomberang or bombchu 
 and aiming your bow or grappling hook. 
  
  The biggest challenge the game presents is in one dungeon you constantly revisit throughout your 
 adventure: The Temple of the Ocean King. After almost every sub dungeon, you go through a little 
 more of this one big dungeon to get a sea chart leading you to the next area of the sea or getting 
 some information that'll help you get to the next place you need to go to. The main concept of 
 this dungeon is the Phantom Hourglass, the game's namesake. While in the Temple, your hearts will 
 be constantly drained when outside of safe zones, but only if your hourglass is out of time. As 
 long as the hourglass has some sand of hours left in it, your life won't be sucked out of you. 
 The sand can be charged up by going outside the Temple. 
  
  The dungeon is also home to Link's most formidable enemies: the phantoms. They roam the corridors 
 of the Temple and chase Link when they see him. If they hit you, you'll lost a minute's worth of 
 sand and start back at the beginning of the floor. Unfortunately, you will have to go through the 
 same floors several time before the game is over, and you'll get pretty tired of doing them over 
 and over. This is the game's biggest issue, and there isn't anything else that really hurts the 
 game aside from the mild difficulty.
  
  Phantom Hourglass displays some very nice DS graphics. They're viewed from above, but they're 100% 
 3-D. While you play they look very nice, but when you go up close in the main story parts, they 
 don't look quite as good. Still, the cel-shaded graphical style is a winner yet again. The sound 
 is also great with nice effects and good music.
  
  Thre is also a nice multiplayer feature available. You can use local wireless or Wi-Fi. One player 
 plays as Link, and the other commands three phantoms. The Link player moves around the dungeon 
 floor bringing force gems back to his area while the phantom player draws paths for the phantoms 
 with a map and tries to catch Link. It's pretty fun to do, and it involves quite a lot of strategy 
 to succeed. There is also a ranking system for this as well as achievements. 
  
  Aside from the main adventure, there's quite a lot to do. There are the gems to collect that power 
 you up, there are heart pieces, bomb bags, arrow quivers, treasures, sea charts, and... well, more. 
 If you want to get all the stuff, you'll take quite a long time to do it, but have fun as you go 
 just because of how enjoyable the game already is.
  
  To sum it all up, Phantom Hourglass is an excellent game. It provides a great Zelda experience, 
 albeit an easy one, and shows us even more of what the DS is capable of. It's easily one of the 
 top games for the system and is worth a spot in any Zelda fan's collection. 
  
  Gameplay: 9
  Graphics: 9
  Sound: 9
  Value: 9
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: hotreat
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 14, 2008 1:48 pm PT
Review:  Zelda phantom hour glass is great on the ds the tough screen controls are fun and feel fresh the 
 puzzles are hard although the combat is to easy and the graphics are the best on ds. The first 
 thing you will notice is the style is cartoon like and fit for all ages, and the game is very colorful, 
 and the bosses are huge. The puzzles are thought but the combat is to easy, a tap on an eneminy 
 could kill them.
  The bosses are also a bit to easy once you figure how to kill them and what to do, and the game 
 is a bit to short for some players.
  their is also a two player mode witch is good, it a bit like capture the flag, one player gets 
 a flag and troughs it on a another players bace it is both offline and online.
  small issues aside overall Zelda on ds is a great game and a must buy for any one who owns a ds. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: wukepingu
Rating: 9.5
Date: Aug 10, 2008 10:04 am PT
Review:  If you take an already awesome game, and give it touch controls you end up with Phantom Hourglass. 
 In Phantom Hourglass you play as well loved character Link, You'll hack and slash your way through 
 well designed dungeons. But there are a few minor flaws like the temple of the ocean king, which 
 you'll find you self dreading to go back that accursed place. At some times the story feels like 
 filler, and it seem a little short. But all and all it is an awesome game (If you have the time 
 for a 10 hr. game.) ;-) It a great buy for 30 or so bucks. . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: drummer131
Rating: 8
Date: Aug 7, 2008 2:41 pm PT
Review:  GAMEPLAY: 9
  GRAPHICS: 10
  SOUND: 7
  VALUE: 7
  TILT: 8
  
  ROUGH SCORE: 8.2
  FINAL SCORE: 8.0
  
  ----------------------------------------
  
  The Good:
  - Excellent, 
 non-gimmicky use of the touch screen
  - Fun boss battles
  - The return of Bombchus
  - You get to shoot down seagulls with cannonballs
  
  The Bad:
  - Incredibly linear (especially 
 in the dungeons)
  - Limited replayability
  - Pales in comparison to certain past Zelda games (LttP, OoT, heck even the Oracle games) 
  
 
  ----------------------------------------
  
  From the very beginning, this game did not directly interest me. I found out about it, but got 
 excited about it only because it was news of a Zelda game for the DS. I like Zelda. So this was 
 great news. I followed the game's development as closely as I could, and my interest did not waver. 
 I asked for it last Christmas and received it... and then it sat on my shelf for half a year. Even 
 with all the critical acclaim from both the critics and other gamers, I still did not feel like 
 I HAD to play the game ASAP. Perhaps this is why the game disappointed me even more when I finally 
 got around to playing it. I may be giving it an 8.0 (8.2, technically) , but that's mostly because 
 Nintendo's painstaking attention to quality in its first-party products saved it from the pitfalls 
 of mediocrity.
  
  GAMEPLAY:
  I never played Wind Waker, though I own it (I thank my brother for that) . I just refuse to play 
 it. I don't like the character art. Toon Link bothers me. I prefer the OoT/MM Link, the OoS/OoA 
 Link, even the TP Link, to Toon Link. But for some reason, I looked past that for Phantom Hourglass. 
 If you have played WW, then you'd be familiar with the basics of this game. The world map consists 
 of a multitude of islands, and over the course of the adventure, you visit each one for whichever 
 reason, getting there with the help of a boat. Besides that, PH proves to be classic Zelda, with 
 a tactile twist. You control everything with the stylus: Link, your items, your map, your course 
 on the seas, everything. It works very well. I never had any issues with enemy/item detection or 
 anything. 
  The problem comes with the game's general straightforwardness. The game tells you where to go all 
 the time. Even in the dungeons, it's not like the 3D dungeons of OoT and MM, where you could wonder 
 around the places and not have a clue what you need to do. You could actually get lost in those 
 dungeons. Here, each time you enter a new room, you know that you've just got to make your way 
 through the room to progress to the next one, until you eventually get the Boss Key and head practically 
 next door to the Boss itself. This really bothered me. Sure, it takes a little bit of time to figure 
 out the puzzles, but I did not like the fact that the dungeons were set up like this. I don't remember 
 the Oracle games being like this. 
  
  GRAPHICS:
  There isn't much to say here. The game is beautiful. I can't fault Nintendo at all here. Great 
 work, guys.
  
  SOUND:
  The music suits the game well. My beef with it, though, is that much of it is not memorable. The 
 only song that stuck with me after my DS turned off was the song that played while you were out 
 on the seas, sailing. Everything else was just okay. Considering I can recall quite a bit of OoT's 
 soundtrack from memory, there is a difference in quality.
  
  VALUE:
  The game does take quite a bit of time to get through, even with its outright linearity. However, 
 the possibility that you'd want to play through it again is not that high, unless you really really 
 enjoyed it. Equally unfortunate is the lack of postgame content. I can't remember whether that's 
 the norm for Zelda games or not, but it's certainly the case here, with only the minigames scattered 
 on particular islands to provide some fun after the main quest is done (sorry, rhyming was unintentional) . 
 There's value present in Phantom Hourglass, it's just not lasting.
  
  TILT: 
  Don't get me wrong, this is not a bad game. Not by a long shot. It's just that if you're going 
 into it thinking it's going to play like OoT, you'll be very disappointed. After a few hours, I 
 came to consider the game as a fusion of games like the Oracle series with games like OoT. But 
 even then, that's not what this game plays like. You'd think it falls somewhere in the middle, 
 but it doesn't.
  So, the bottom line is that the game is good, but perhaps not as good as all the hype made it out 
 to be. I would still recommend this game to any Zelda fan or to anyone else interested in the title, 
 but I would not recommend getting it at full price. Find it marked down somewhere and it will probably 
 be more worth it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Reeper42
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 7, 2008 9:46 am PT
Review:  this game story is one of the best things about it. the action the wepons the chacters all great. 
 this game is not impossible but it does have some very confusing puzzles. this game kept me interested 
 in many ways the puzzle the enemys and story. this is a fun game for the styles (how ever you spell 
 it) you do every thing with the stylus which makes theis game very unique. the puzzles in a this 
 game are incredible there was one where you had to close your ds and open it again to get a map. 
 the combat is fun you use your stylus in the direction and it is very iddicting. there is also 
 sea combat and even some sea bosses. the bosses in the game are all unique and very fun when you 
 take them down. there are many items that help you like a grapling hook a hamer and the bow and 
 arrow is fun to use and the bombs and a new bomb you mark its bomb and it follows it and all the 
 items are used in puzzles to help you get used to them. this game is worth the money 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dcj21
Rating: 9.5
Date: Aug 4, 2008 5:09 pm PT
Review:  this story takes after the wind waker. even after killing gonandorf. this tme a bunch of ghosts 
 take tetra and theres your adventure using the stylus like never before attack move sail everything 
 is in the palm of your hand so its your duty to get her back so you and others go on an adventure 
 for her but who knows what lies in links path monsters guols and you also get to build your boat 
 to sail with island to island this game is the best game you will play for the ds until ff 4 comes 
 out so if your looking for a game thats a big adventure game then this is the game for you. 1 1 
 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 
 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 11 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 
 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 11 1 
 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 number 1 babey 
::::::

::::::
UserName: game_fan_003
Rating: 1.5
Date: Aug 4, 2008 4:36 pm PT
Review:  This is not a Zelda game!!! this is not worth playing . i played this through in about two hours! 
 Nintendo finally came up with a D. S. Zelda game, and it's a real let-down. but even though this 
 was a hunk-a-junk-game, if Nintendo comes out with another D. S. Zelda I'll try it anyway. I was 
 always a Zelda fan but now I'm not so sure. and moving with the touchscreen just isn't appealing 
 to me. the only O. K. part of the game is the two player mode and D. S. download compatible. and 
 even then the game takes a dive. I have noticed that my review is negative, while most others are 
 positive, but i don't think it matters. this game is definitely not what i expected. as of now 
 I'm just letting it go and I'm going to end my review here. I may choose to edit this later, but 
 I'm done for now. keep on playing. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Bleachfreak7
Rating: 9.5
Date: Aug 3, 2008 2:40 pm PT
Review:  Zelda: Phantom Hourglass (ZPH) is unlike any other Zelda game. First of all, no other Zelda game 
 is for the DS. This game has way different graphics than the others too. I had never seen graphics 
 like these. These are the strangest graphics ever made but they are really cool too. At first they 
 seem weird but you get used to them very fast.
  The gameplay is great. You use the stylus throughout the whole game. It's one of the first games 
 like that. You use it to move, attack, control items, etc... They game is also pretty long. It 
 has it's similarities and differences to the other Zelda games, but there is nothing ever made 
 quite like this.
  The controls are pretty basic. I mentioned them up above. You just use the stylus. Some of the 
 cool stylus features are cool. Draw a circle around Link and he spins in a circle. 
  The game has good sound too. The music is very... interesting. It's different, but so is the music 
 in every Zelda game.
  Time for the good and the bad!!!
  The Good: This game is very unique. All stylus action. Cool music and interesting graphics. Overall, 
 a very likeable game.
  The Bad: (Don't let this change your mind about buying it though) . The only bad thing is that most 
 of the bosses' challenge level is very underwhleming. The last boss was easier than the second 
 boss. It just needs to be a little harder.
  The weapons are cool. You get a bow and arrow, hammer, bombs. But there are some pretty sweet items 
 too. I don't want to ruin it though. Buy the game to find out.
  The wifi has great play. It never gets glitchy and is always fun. You can get ranked anywhere from 
 rank H to rank SSS. Rank SSS are extremely rare to see. The wifi is great too. I don't wat to ruin 
 what the wifi is either so buy the game if you want to find out. (Or you could just read a diferent 
 review) . It has insanely fun wifi!!!
  This last paragraph concludes my review. Overall, this is a very good game. 9.5/10. Definitely 
 worth buying. Have fun and enjoy, Zelda: Phantom Hourglass, the most Unique game in the world! 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: arbiterspartan
Rating: 10
Date: Aug 3, 2008 1:32 pm PT
Review:  Have you ever been playing a Zelda game and realize you've got a dentist appointment in half an 
 hour and wish you could just bring it along. Well, obviously you can't pack up your your 10 lb. 
 gaming system, so that's why Nintendo developed The Legend Of Zelda: Phantom Hourglass. It packs 
 a whole gaming adventure into a little card to bring along. You're probably thinking this is either 
 to good to be true, or I'm full of crud. Well, my friends I'm not and this actually is true. With 
 the series being out for close to 15 years and the D. S. being out for 3, it's pretty hard to believe 
 this is the first to enter the D. S. The graphics obviously aren't top-notch because it's the D. S. 
 but they're suprisingly good. 
  You'll play as everyone's favorite little green dude in an adventure to rescue none other than 
 Princess Zelda herself, in her favorite pirate form known as Tetra. You may know her from the prequel 
 on the GC, The Wind Waker. Unlike Wind Waker, however, you will be able to customize your ship 
 to put on new parts. But collecting all of the ship parts will not be an easy task. You are probably 
 still in awe that Ihaven't written "April Fools!" or something like that because this game is real. Real 
 good! It's the regular D. S. game price of 35 dollars, so it's not taking a huge 60 dollar chunk 
 out of your wallet like new 360 games. 
  
  Bottom line: Get this game ASAP.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: mos333
Rating: 5
Date: Aug 3, 2008 7:28 am PT
Review:  Phantom Hourglass is a bore. It takes the same tired gameplay we've been seeing for 20 years and 
 throws some touch-screen functionality on it. Does the touch screen add much to the game? Not really. 
 For every way in which it helps the gameplay, it also hinders it. For all but the most die-hard 
 Zelda fans, Phantom Hourglass will be a long, boring trial to keep yourself awake. Eventually, 
 Zelda: PH doesn't feel much like a Zelda game at all.
  
  First, there's no plot. Yes, Tetra gets kidnapped and Link embarks on a vaguely defined adventure 
 to rescue her. On his way, Link travels through many dungeons collecting several magical objects. 
 Not only does it sound horribly familiar, it's also very dull. After all these years, the plot 
 has seen no change whatsoever. Link is still a mute and the story never really picks up.
  
  However, Zelda has never really been about the plot, and most people play it for the gameplay itself. 
 The significant change here is the control scheme. The game is fully controlled through the touch 
 screen; every action requires a pattern input such as tapping, drawing circles, rubbing, etc, etc. 
 You're left with what feels like a very buggy, frustrating interface. If you want Link to pick 
 up an item, you tap it, simple. However, Link may choose to attack it for whatever reason. It just 
 feels very gimmicky and seems a good excuse to remove many of the essentials that made the older 
 Zelda games so great.
  
  Even with the shoddy touch controls, some of it does help. For example, throwing a boomerang or 
 using a rope is more accurate than ever, usually requiring you to draw a line accross the screen 
 in the desired direction. However, it's not enough to compensate for the overall poor feel.
  
  The game has defenitely been dumbed down, and this is sure to dissapoint proper Zelda fans. 
 It overloads you with a bunch of boring, repetitive tasks which you must complete to progress within 
 the game. Take sailing for example. It was boring in Wind Waker and it's boring here. You draw 
 a route, and your boat will follow it... very slowly. You sit there, occasionaly tapping on a pop-up 
 enemy to fire your cannon at it. It dies, and after repeating that for a good 10 minutes, you've 
 reached your destination.
  
  You start scouting the island for clues, occasionaly making conversation with the locals to progress. 
 Wait- Islands? Locals? What happened there? You enter a dungeon, grab the map, and embark on another 
 snorefest of a sailing trip to another island. Repeat until you've completed the game, which without 
 the long sailing sequences may take you about 5 hours to complete.
  
  There are many little additions such as stealth elements in some stages and some touch screen or 
 microphone requirements, but none of it really adds to the experience and it only feels like a 
 showcase for what the DS can do.
  Zelda games were meant to be played like Zelda games. In changing a much loved formula and keeping 
 a tired, overused plot, Nintendo haven't done much good to formulate a true handheld Zelda experience. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ffgothic
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 2, 2008 12:08 pm PT
Review:  The Legend of Zelda has its fair share of handheld gaming glory, but none can match Link's latest 
 adventure on the Nintendo DS. In fact, it is one of the best Zelda games period. Playing Phantom 
 Hourglass on the DS is a refreshing Zelda experience at its core. This is largely due to the creative 
 gameplay capabilities of which the DS encompasses and how well the developers at Nintendo utilize 
 them for the game.
  
  The most notable mechanic with Phantom Hourglass is how the player controls Link. It is all done 
 with the stylus, while the d-pad and face buttons are alternatively in use to access the map and 
 inventory menus. Additionally, the stylus serves to control Links attacks and other maneuvers. 
 The motion replicates the action: make a line for a slash or stab, a circle around Link for a 360 
 spin attack, a circle motion at towards the edge of the screen for a diving roll, etc. The weapons 
 and items found throughout the game all have their distinct applications with the stylus. For example, 
 the hero of green attire has an effective boomerang which requires the player to draw a line and 
 even shapes of direction for the boomerang to strike or activate. The beautiful thing about Phantom 
 Hourglass' gameplay is that it works so intuitively well, and becomes a comfortable control scheme 
 very quickly.
  
  The overall game design compliments the gameplay mechanics also. The player will be using each 
 of Link's special items and abilities. The dungeons all utilize the stylus' control scheme cohesively 
 as well as the capabilities of the DS. There are certain actions the player will have Link perform 
 throughout that game that will guarantee a smile or a quote of, "Ah, that's cool!" Like any Zelda 
 title, there are sure to be boss battles, and Phantom Hourglass surely does not disappoint in quantity. 
 Not only that, but each boss battle is uniquely fun and memorable.
  
  The only grievance of the game's design is the Temple of the Ocean King. Throughout the game, Link 
 must return to this dungeon a number of times after completing missions to advance the story. Each 
 successful visit expands the length of the dungeon until Link reaches the final point. The problem 
 that can persist for some players is revisiting the temple on several occasions only to start from 
 the beginning each go-round. Additionally, there is an existing time limit to complete a section 
 of the dungeon.
  
  The main story of Link's adventure at sea roughly can take twenty to thirty hours to complete. 
 This adventure alone is well worth the play-through for the most part. However, the multiplayer 
 mode is a nice little treat that gives the game some extra legs. Essentially, it's one on one capture 
 the flag Zelda style; so the triangle gems substitute for the flags. While it is the only existing 
 multiplayer mode it entails a lot of frantic fun; the only true problem is that very little people 
 populate the Wi-Fi servers.
  
  Being the first direct Zelda sequel, specifically to the Gamecube's Wind Waker, Phantom Hourglass 
 holds up a very good presentation. Since it stays in the realm of the 2003 classic, the cel-shaded 
 graphics translate nicely on the DS. The musical score is what one can expect from the Zelda universe; 
 which in most cases includes memorable tunes. The story holds up well, especially with the references 
 to Wind Waker. Additionally, the characters alongside Link are memorable, for example the treasure-hungry 
 navigator Linebeck who is truly a selfish coward on the inside. Due to the light-hearted look of 
 the game a lot of the dialogue contains quirky humor, which is surprisingly executed well.
  
  The Legend of Zelda: Phantom Hourglass is a great and unique addition to the franchise. With 
 intuitive and accessible gameplay, it can be enjoyable for mostly anyone. It's a great addition 
 to the DS library.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: SSBFan12
Rating: 9.5
Date: Aug 1, 2008 2:15 pm PT
Review:  In the game it shows that Tetra is falling in a dark portal and you are washed ashore on a island 
 and a fairy wakes you up. Then the fairy takes you to his grandpa and you get a sword and you have 
 to take a cave to get to the village because the bridge is destroyed. So you meet this guy with 
 a boat and he takes you along with. Then really the story begins with you going to islands and 
 defeated easy bosses. The whole game is on water really but you do go on land to find clues. Your 
 partners are the fairy and his grandpa and Linebeck. You are not in the Hyrule Kingdom or back 
 anywhere near your home land. The good of this game is that there are puzzles you can solve. The 
 touch pad is easy to use. The bad is that some parts of the story adds the game to be a bit of 
 a drag. Really the game is fun and easy but after you defeat the last boss and it is not Ganondorf 
 the ending of the story is not the best. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ZzZaAaNnNtTt
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jul 31, 2008 6:01 pm PT
Review:  Phantom Hourglass is an action-adventure game, and its gameplay is structured similar to other 
 games in the The Legend of Zelda series. The player controls the protagonist, named Link, as he 
 explores the world to find new items, information, and allies to free Tetra and defeat the evil 
 of Bellum within the game. As the game follows chronologically after The Wind Waker, the game is 
 primarily divided into two major game play sections: sailing between islands, and exploring the 
 islands and their dungeons on foot.
  
  
 
  
  The game's story focuses on Link as he travels on a journey to save his best friend, Tetra, from 
 Bellum, by forging the Phantom Sword and defeating him. a awesome Game........ but its a hard game 
 on my opinion 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Desulated
Rating: 9
Date: Jul 28, 2008 11:14 am PT
Review:  The Legend of Zelda: Phantom Hourglass is currently the newest Zelda game up to date for the DS, 
 and Link returns in an all new adventure following the events of Wind Waker for the Gamecube. In 
 this new adventure, Link's friend is taken away by phantoms while they are searching for treasure, 
 and his attempt to save her is futile, and he ends up falling into the ocean where he gets washed 
 up on a beach shortly after. This is where you come in.
  
  This Zelda game is unique from the other games (apart from TP, which uses Wii controls) becuz instead 
 of using the classical directional pad and the A and B buttons, you use the stylus to move Link 
 around and attack enemies. Apart from that, you get to explore different islands in your search 
 for three so-called "spirits" (which are strangely associated with the three pieces of the Triforce) 
 and later in the game, three pieces of special metals. Overall, the story is well done, although 
 it is a bit too short. The bosses are also very fun to fight against, because each of them requires 
 strategy, precise timing and a certain weapon to defeat. Even though they're a bit too easy compared 
 to the other Zelda bosses, they are still worth fighting against since they'll give you something 
 very worthwhile in the end.
  
  Overall, this game does a nice job at presenting itself on the DS. Even though the multiplayer 
 mode won't blow everyone away in terms of levels of fun, the story itself is very well done. A 
 must have for any Zelda fan, and newcomers are also recommended to try this game out. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: woohooboogoo
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jul 27, 2008 6:23 pm PT
Review:  Some of the best Zelda graphics of all time have come out onto the ds and recreates my favorite 
 form of link: his toon form. Plus i am glad to inform you that the game is mostly stylus and uses 
 barely any buttons. Speaking of the stylus, when you acquire the sword, the stylus becomes your 
 weapon. Speaking of weapons, many of the other items from twilight princess (except for the clawshot) 
 have gone into the legend of zelda phantom hourglass. And they don't call it phantom hourglass 
 for nothing. The name of the game resides in this temple which in later of the game pisses you 
 off. And there is a new world and a new evil to try and take it over. Well not unless Link saves 
 the day. The game even has a multiplayer mode where you become either link or three ugly phantoms 
 trying to take out The graphics are incredible and the gameplay being awesome, any zelda fan should 
 have this game if they own the ds. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: blaxax
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jul 27, 2008 5:12 pm PT
Review:  If you are one looking for a direct seaquel to the wind waker, look no further! this is exactly 
 what you would expect from the zelda sieries, amazing gameplay, chalenging puzzels, jucy boss fights, 
 and most of all, powerfully rewarding.
  
  
  the game starts off as where windwaker left off, when you and your pirate crew arer setting sail 
 to isles unknownwhen all of a sudden, somthing knocks you out, and you wake up pushed on shoar, completely 
 unconshous to what just happened. there is when you find celia, the little magical fairy who will 
 help guide you threw your journey. but there is one little delema.... you cannot start your adventure 
 without the propper tools to embark on your quest....... this is where Oshus comes in... your "mastermind" 
 of of your adventure. many were disapointed when they heard that the king of red lions isnt in the 
 game.... as was I. i guess the people at nintendo thought that it was getting old. but hey, its not 
 the end of the world.
  
  
  the controls are simple, and work extremely well. your move links sword with your stylus, as well 
 as with your other tools. the d-pad and face buttons are not used at all in the game. the microphone 
 can be used to blow away dust, yell at people, or blow out candles.
  
  
  there is one drawback though. in order to get all of the seacharts, and continue onto the other levels, you 
 will have to revisit the temple of the ocean king...... lover........... and over........ and over 
 again. each time you revisit the temple of the ocean king, a new level will open, new items can be 
 used, and different things can be unlocked. its just so incredible tedious that it sucks all the 
 fun out of the temple (and its also the reason im giving is a 9.5 insted of a ten) . this is where 
 the Phantom Hourglass comes in. it will let you cut have the temple to go right to the part where 
 you need to. i couldnt imagine this game without it. literely.
  
  
  
  this is also the first Zelda game to have wi-fi. the online wi-fi isnt all that special, but it 
 is as addictive as heck to say the least. and like many other wifi games are known for, it actually 
 keeps track of your stats, so you can try to beat your high score just to keep you buissy.
  
  
  this game would take you about 20 hours to beat, but to find all of the extras, it would 
 take you about 50 years........... without the internet.
  
  
  
  over all i give this game a 9.5 out of 10 for amazing gameplay that draws you in, great story, wifi, 
 and PHONOMONAL GRAPHICS!!!
  
  thank you for reading this review, and as always, dont forget to check out my channel. im blaxax, and 
 im out. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: FriendlyCrono
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jul 25, 2008 8:57 am PT
Review:  Graphics: 9.5/10
  
  The characters and background all look very good and retain the "cartoony" style of LOZ: Wind Waker.
 
  
  
  Sound: 9/10
  
  All your standard LOZ jingles are here like when you find treasure or unlock a secret area. The 
 new music is very good too. Still no dialogue.......
  
  
  Gameplay: 8.5/10
  
  One of the easiest LOZ games. Unlike every other game in the series, there is little reason to 
 explore. Here, there are NO heart pieces. You can only find full hearts (excluding the ones you 
 get from bosses) . And you can buy heart containers. There is very little treasure to find from 
 exploring, and that was one of the best parts of playing a LOZ game.
  
  The game is fully touch-screen, except for a few times you have to blow into the mic. The touch-screen 
 controls are excellent and never feel cumbersome or annoying. The dungeons are great and so are 
 the bosses. Sailing is back, but they made it more fun and very easy to navigate (you draw a course 
 with your stylus beforehand, and the ships sails automatically) . The game's length clocks in at 
 14 hours, more if you explore everything.
  
  The only major problem is you have to return to this one dungeon 5 times throughout the game. Granted, 
 it IS slightly different each time, but it's still a little annoying.
  
  
  
  
  
  Overall, this is one of, if not the best, action/adventure game for the DS. If you have a DS, do 
 you 
::::::

::::::
UserName: widdowson91
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 17, 2008 2:04 pm PT
Review:  The Legend of Zelda: The Phantom Hourglass is the first Zelda game on the DS and for a first try 
 it is great. It is a direct sequel to The Wind Waker and takes place not long after, with Link, 
 Tetra and the Pirates on the search for a mysterious ghost ship said to be full of treasure. When 
 they find it, Tetra jump on the boats hull and gets kidnapped, so Link, rather like the Wind Waker, 
 Link decides it's his duty to save someone again.
  In Phantom Hourglass, rather like in Majora's Mask and Ocarina of time, Link finds a guardian fairy 
 who does on occasions give Link useful hints.
  
  The entire game is played on the touch screen, you can't even more with the d-pad, so be prepared. 
 In fact if you press down on the d-pad it brings the top screens map down to the touch screen so 
 you can make notes on it. It may get some taking used to but when you start to play the game you'll 
 notice more that control scheme works very well. In fact, it's the first Zelda game EVER with this 
 control scheme, so in a way it's revolutionary.
  To attack simply tap on an enemy or draw a quick line on the touch screen to swing your sword.
 
  With the boomerang just get it out then you can draw the path it can take, and the same with the 
 Bombchu, just get it out and draw a line to use it.
  For other items such as the Spade or the Hammer to use it just tap on the screen where you want 
 to dig or attack. Also with the bomb tap the screen where you want to throw it. It is a good control 
 scheme but sometimes the controls can be a bit uncreative and they might not work first try.
  Also, there are no empty bottles on Phantom Hourglass; you just buy potions already in bottles. 
 In my opinion, Nintendo have taken a step back with this game, as on other games like Ocarina of 
 Time or Majora's Mask it was difficult to get all the empty bottles, so there was a challenge. 
 But the fun you get from finding them all has been lost in Phantom Hourglass.
  
  You have to, yet again sail on Phantom Hourglass. Don't worry, because the sailing is better than 
 it is on the Wind Waker.
  On Phantom Hourglass, you just plot your course and the boat goes by itself, which means you can 
 concentrate fully on using the canon.
  
  Although you have to sail around, you have to unlock parts on the World map before you can visit 
 them. To do this you have to get sea charts.
  To do this you have to go to a place called the Temple of the Ocean King and work your way through 
 it. The Temple of the Ocean King physically sucks the life out of you and to stop it you have to 
 enter safe zones. You do get something called the Phantom Hourglass and as long as there is time 
 in the top, you're protected. The time doesn't go down if you're in a safe zone. It's easy to get 
 the first chart, but to get the second you have to start the temple again from the beginning and 
 do the puzzles again that you just did to get the previous chart. This is extremely annoying and 
 you have to do it more than once because there are a total of 4 sea charts you have to find.
  Also the first part of the Last boss Bellum is played at the end of this temple so you have to 
 go through it AGAIN to reach the last boss. You do get a warp point half way through it, but even 
 if you warp here you still have to do the part of the dungeon after the warp point. It's not that 
 the temple is hard, in fact it's very easy, but you have to do it over and over again, and it does 
 get extremely boring. But once you reach the end of the dungeon, you open up a teleport pad which 
 enables you to skip the dungeon and reach the end of it, so if you reach Bellum, don't be scared 
 to leave the dungeon thinking you'll have to go through the whole thing again, because you won't. 
 To be honest the only thing that is difficult about this dungeon is the enemies in it called Phantoms. 
 It is impossible to kill them, instead you have to trick them or distract them to get passed them. 
 On some occasions, they are carrying keys and you have to hit them so they drop the key. If they 
 hit you, you'll loose time from your hourglass but this is the only threat they pose. Later in 
 the game you get a sword called the Phantom Sword and if you hit a Phantom in its back using this 
 sword, it kills them in one hit so if you found them difficult to avoid, once you get this sword 
 you'll have no more worries.
  
  To go straight to the point all the dungeons in the Phantom Hourglass are extremely easy. So easy 
 in fact you could finish the game quicker then you finished the Minish Cap. It's not that the dungeons 
 are rubbish, no, if fact they are designed brilliantly, with noticeable DS style puzzles, but experienced 
 Zelda fans like myself will find them too easy and just breeze through them. I have to admit that 
 the later puzzles in the game are a bit challenging but they are nothing compared to previous Zelda 
 puzzles.
  As I am a Zelda fan, although they are designed very, very well, I was a bit disappointed with 
 the dungeons.
  
  The main quest should take you no more than a maximum of 20 hours. There are some good side-quests 
 to do, but none of them are that difficult. There is a side-quest in which you have to become the 
 greatest fisherman in the sea, by catching the legendary Neptoona. It took my brother 24 times 
 worth of fishing to catch it, but it only took me 14, so it's not to difficult.
  There are no heart pieces on this game; you have to find complete heart containers instead. This 
 is a bit disappointing, because with the fact that there is an ocean to explore, Nintendo could 
 have made you have to get pieces of heart from Treasure maps. But they didn't so it's not worth 
 complaining about to much.
  
  If you're looking for a fun Zelda adventure, get Phantom Hourglass. There is no doubting that this 
 is one of the best games on the DS and well worth picking up whether your a Zelda fan or not.
 
  
  Gameplay - 10
  Graphics - 9
  Sound - 8
  Value - 8
  Design - 10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: wehuntjoe
Rating: 9
Date: Jul 24, 2008 9:09 pm PT
Review:  The legend of Zelda phantom hourglass is the best handheld Zelda game ever. It totally trounces 
 all of those others especially the minish cap. I love the controls and how to work the sword and 
 other weapons. I only did not like a couple of things. One, why is Zelda still acting like a pirate 
 even after she knows she is the princes. Two, the game is to short. 11 hours is enough to beat 
 it. But it does not fall short of any other Zelda games. It has 7 dungeons including the temple 
 of the ocean king. There are no heart pieces only containers. It still has the some puzzels that 
 can drive someone insane and you got to love the twists only a Zelda game can have. The only real 
 annoying thing is the fact that you have to keep returning to the same dungeon. It has the same 
 cell shaded graphics that wind waker has but at the same time this is 10 times more fun then wind 
 waker. 9/10. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Zageroth
Rating: 9
Date: Jul 24, 2008 3:19 pm PT
Review:  The start of the phantom hour glass is quite difficult to get into, sure like most games they try 
 and capture you from the very beginning, and in keeping with the great Zelda tradition, it does. 
 In this game you're given your basic Zelda equipment, Nothing. You get your sword, you get your 
 shield, and then you have to get a whole lot more stuff to get to the end, although I am an avid 
 fan of the Ocarina of Time way of looking at graphics, while I had a problem getting into Windwaker, 
 eventually, it grew on me. I enjoyed the game, although, I wish you could have the option of using 
 either the D-Pad or the Stylus. You're stuck with the Stylus. Its fun and all but I'd like to have 
 the option of using either. 
  
  All in all, i think that the game is good and i would recomend it to anyone.
  even if they have 
 never played any of the Zelda games. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: boulderboybuddy
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jul 21, 2008 9:28 pm PT
Review:  It has actually been a while since I played this game, but from what I remember, it was enjoyable. 
 The game starts off with you as link, washed ashore on a tropical island after unsuccessfully infiltrating 
 the alleged "ghost ship". You are awaken by a fairy, and the game picks up from there. You will 
 very quickly learn the touch screen controls, which are surprisingly easy to use, if simple. You 
 move by pressing to the edges of the touch screen, roll by making a small, quick circle, and slash 
 your sword with a swipe across the screen. There is even a quick auto-targeting system that makes 
 your life a bit easier by pulling you to your target, and hitting it with a jump attack, or a jab. 
 In all of this, it felt good using the stylus, if innovative. As enjoyable as it was, I cannot 
 feel but that it was lacking. There were no complex maneuvers to perform like those of Wind Waker, 
 it's rough prequel, but this may be all for the better as those might be more difficultly performed 
 with a simple stylus.
  
  In Phantom Hourglass, the game takes full control of the touch screen and some of the other abilities 
 of the DS that I had not seen before, such as closing the clam shape to press two objects together, 
 or the great ways that the small but useful arsenal are used. Experienced Zelda players may find 
 this game on the easy side, but it is still worth the buy, because of all the features it possess. 
 One of the issues that will probably be discussed is the fact that there is an element of repetitiveness 
 in one of the dungeon's you must face, the Temple of the Ocean King. It surprised me because I 
 heard many groans about it's repetitiveness, but I found it actually somewhat pleasing, as every 
 time you return, you come bearing new tools, which shorten or change the path you take to descend 
 deeper into the temple, so I felt it intelligent, to say in the least, if still missing the mark 
 a bit. 
  
  Every Dungeon is as brilliant as ever, even if they are on the short side, taking a half hour to 
 complete at max, excluding the rare parts that you get stuck on. The boss fights take full use 
 of both screens, executing some very intuitive battles. 
  
  The story seems to be a bit lacking, as of the fact that is a little too linear. There are only 
 a few surprises that catch you off guard. After defeating the spectacular final boss, like Minish 
 cap, it puts you just before the last boss fight, as if it never happened. This formula is a little 
 annoying if you got really into the plot, as you may feel as if you were cheated by in a way not 
 counting your progress, though it does. There is still some replay value, but not all too much 
 to get overly exited about. There are minigames splattered over the islands here and there, and 
 some hidden treasures and fully upgradable fairies to obtain, but it still seems to be a bit lacking, 
 like a game that you would feel a need to finish, even if it does not affect anything.
  
  All-in-all, the game is a pretty good fit. I admit to coming to the game as a suspecting non-believer, 
 but I found out quickly that a touch screen based Zelda game CAN be achieved, and a good one at 
 that. Still, I was a little disappointed in the fact being that there is lacking complex combat, 
 and that the Ocean King's Temple can be repetitive. It was linear and basic, and still had a competent 
 enough story that it captured my attention. The Ship Building is alright, although you feel a low 
 level of initiative to finish it, as it affects little of the game value. Still, even if it looks 
 bad, or you feel repelled by pushing link around of a top down 3D map, it's still worth a try. 
 How much value you get out of this game is really your choice. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Gregdawg08
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jul 22, 2008 2:20 pm PT
Review:  When I finished playing Phantom Hourglass, I was happy, but I knew something was missing. Here 
 are my ratings:
  
  Controls:7.5
  The controls are innovative, but akward, because you have to point to where you want to go. Boating 
 is pretty boring and tedious, and the cyclone slate you acquire doesn't help much. You have to 
 hunt gold frogs to learn the signs. After you learn the signs, you must remember them and then 
 flawlessly draw them out on your slate to get to where you want to go. Also, to swing your sword, 
 you must swipe the stylus across the screen. Not too bad. The worst part was drawing things. Aiming 
 the boomerang and bombchus are fun, but having to draw logos like the Phantom Hourglass and the 
 Triforce is frusrating. You have to connect the drawings without any flaws, otherwise it erases 
 your work. The final boss battle can become tedious, becuse the hourglass you have to draw is invisible. 
 This makes it hard to draw it right, because it only works if your perfect. Nonetheless, the contols 
 are basic and innovative,
  
  Graphics:7.5
  It's not the cel-shaded that bothers me, it's how rigid it looks. I loved how the Wind Waker's 
 graphics were done. But in PH they are rigid and sharp. It looks like Link's eyes are floating 
 off his face, and his hair looks wierd. Everything looks like it is out of place. The enemies also 
 look kinda fake looking and scratchy. The sea even looks a bit different,
  
  Story: 9.25
  The story was the high point of the game for me. It was not as good as Twilight Princess'es, Wind 
 Waker's, Ocarina's or Majora's stories, but it was pretty good. The ghost ship was cool, and having 
 a new enemy was a good move. It had some good surprises, but wasn't too deep. It also was wierd 
 not saving "Princess" Zelda. Technically Tetra is Zelda, but she isn't in her attire and is refered 
 to as Tetra. The worst part of the story is the ocean king dungeon. After every dungeon, you had 
 to return to a huge 13 level dungeon and find some item. You have 10-25 minutes in non-safe zones 
 in the dungeon, depending on how much progress you have in the story. If you go over the timelimit, 
 the dungeon wilI suck the life out of you and you die. It wasn't hard, but it was reptetive and 
 annoying. The story was still good though.
  
  Sidequests:8.5
  The sidequests are fun, but there are barely any and they are short. There are no Heart Pieces, 
 just heart containers. There are 16 to find, over 1/2 of which you get from bosses and from the 
 start. That was a huge difference from TP, in which you have to collect 45 heart pieces compared 
 to 8 or so heart containers in Phantom Hourglass. The item collecting and trading is good though, 
 and the upgrades for your spirits are cool. Collect 10 gems for that type of spirit, and you upgade 
 it to level one. Colelct 20 gems for that type of spirit, and you upgade to level 2. Depending 
 on which spirit you have in use, you will have enhanced attack damage, defense, or attack range. 
 You also can customise your ship by finding ship parts around the sea. If they follow the same 
 theme, your ship has more defense.
  
  Online:6.75
  For being the first online Zelda game, PH wasn't bad. It is very repetitive, because there is only 
 one mode. Here is what you do. It's basically a capture-the-flag type game. There are 8 battlefields. 
 On each battlefield are a varying number of force gems, yellow triangle-shaped objects that are 
 the key to victory. Each one varies in value depending on size, the biggest being worth the most 
 points. There is a red base and a blue base, which act as safe zones when you are in them. When 
 you get a force gem, you must run with it, put it in your zone (which gives you points) , before 
 your opponent's phantoms strike you. When you are caught or time runs out, you go on defense and 
 try to defend the other force gems using your Phantoms. After 3 rounds the game ends, and the person 
 with the most points wins. Depending on who you beat by how many points, you get battle points 
 which upgrade your status. The more points, the better you are in the online mode.
  
  Sound: 7.75
  The music is good and enjoyable, but not memorable. The DS's speakers are pretty 
 lame, and have scratchy audio. The sounds Link makes are nausiating because they are the same as 
 Wind Waker's. The weapons sounds aren't too bad, but could be better. It was pretty good sound 
 effects for the DS though.
  
  Overall: 8.25
  This game lacks in some areas like online play and graphics, but it is still a great game. It is 
 a must play for the DS and is fun to complete. The dificulty is pretty easy for a Zelda game, so 
 you should be able to play whether you are a good gamer or not. I think it is about 7th or 8th 
 in the Zelda series, but I think everybody should play it. It is a blast, and pretty innovative. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: maverick_41
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 11, 2009 7:45 am PT
Review:  Story
  
  This game's story begins where the Wind Waker left off. You are traveling through the sea when 
 you unexpectedly run into a deep fog. Suddenley you see a eerie looking ship ahead. Tetra goes 
 aboard and then dissappears. Link attempts to follow her but ends up adrift in the see. He is later 
 woken up bye a fairy looking thing named Celia, and then your journey begins.
  -----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
  
  Gameplay
  
  Phantom Hourglass is an action-adventure game, and its gameplay is structured similar to other 
 games in the The Legend of Zelda series. The player controls Link as he explores the world to find 
 new items, information, and allies to free Tetra and defeat the evil of Bellum within the game. 
 As the game follows chronologically after The Wind Waker, the game is primarily divided into two 
 major game play sections: sailing between islands, and exploring the islands and their dungeons 
 on foot.
  -----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
  
  Graphics
  
  This game has the same 3-D cell shaded graphical engine as the Wind Waker but a little more watered 
 down. Overall this game has great graphics for a DS game.
  -----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
  
  Control
  
  You whole adventure is controlled by the touch screen. Tap on enemies to attack, draw routs for 
 you ships, draw routs for you boomerand and bombchus, mark your maps with important information, 
 etc. Some controls are a little unresponsive.
  -----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
  
  Sound
  
  It's The Legend of Zelda for you!
  -----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
  
  Overall
  
  Well what can I say, if you are a true Legend of Zelda fan and you have a DS you need to get this 
 game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: luislb88
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jul 18, 2008 1:02 pm PT
Review:  The Newest Zelda game to date in my opinion is one of the best to come out in a while not since 
 The Minish Cap have i been completely in love and addicted to a Handheld game. Phantom Uses the 
 touch screen to its max. u use it to move, trace the path of your boomerangs or bombchus and a 
 bunch of other goodies that help reinvent the aging yet not stale zelda formula. the gameplay (however 
 linear) and graphics are well done and flawless the classic zelda tunes are back but no VO's still 
 annoy me. the game is lengthy and cantake about 15-20 hours to complete but the abundant amount 
 of creative, addictive and rewarding sidequests will keep u playing. overall Phantom Hourglass 
 is one of the best zelda games to have ever come out and in my opinion the best DS game available. 
 pick it up and enjoy the magic! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BIGGDOGG91
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jul 16, 2008 12:48 pm PT
Review:  The Newest Zelda game to date in my opinion is one of the best to come out in a while not since 
 The Minish Cap have i been completely in love and addicted to a Handheld game. Phantom Uses the 
 touch screen to its max. u use it to move, trace the path of your boomerangs or bombchus and a 
 bunch of other goodies that help reinvent the aging yet not stale zelda formula. the gameplay (however 
 linear) and graphics are well done and flawless the classic zelda tunes are back but no VO's still 
 annoy me. the game is lengthy and cantake about 15-20 hours to complete but the abundant amount 
 of creative, addictive and rewarding sidequests will keep u playing. overall Phantom Hourglass 
 is one of the best zelda games to have ever come out and in my opinion the best DS game available. 
 pick it up and enjoy the magic! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Firefly00
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jul 13, 2008 10:48 am PT
Review:  The Legend of Zelda is itself an impressive series and this release only delivers excellence as 
 far as I'm concerned. It's a perfect addition to anyone's DS and I throughly enjoyed it. Although 
 at times the puzzles left me a little frustrated once you stop and think they clearly make sense. 
 
  
  One thing about this game that was very pleasing was the controls. This game was made for the DS 
 and the controls clearly weren't an afterthought. The ease of access controls made it easy to interact 
 with the surroundings and the enemies. 
  
  Another element that impressed me was the graphics. For a release on a handheld I honestly didn't 
 expect much, but the quirky graphics really did impress me. For a DS game I found them quite something.
 
  
  Then again, a games brilliance doesn't just rely on good controls and graphics, it's about the 
 gameplay too. Honestly, the gameplay is superb. The delights of the individual characters, the 
 humour and of course the puzzles all deliver.
  
  I really would go as far to say that this game is a must-have for all DS owners. 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: mkDSpro63
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jul 12, 2008 3:47 pm PT
Review:  The Legend of Zelda series is introduced to the DS with Legend of Zelda: Phantom Hourglass. The 
 game returns to the cel-shaded, cartoony Link that everyone loved and hated in Wind Waker. But 
 does a DS Zelda game mean a much more easier game? Let's find out!
  
  The story opens up pretty much summarizing the events from Wind Waker (since this is a direct sequel 
 of Wind Waker) . Your quest this time is to rescue Tetra again when she gets captured by a mysterious 
 ghost ship. In order to do that, you must find three imprisoned spirits and use their help to find 
 the ghost ship. The story extends more than that, getting deeper into things like the Ocean King 
 and your main villain. I'm gonna stop there for spoiler reasons. Not the most cinematic way to 
 open a story, I know, but it seems appropriate to the cel-shaded theme.
  
  As you know already, the entire game is controlled by the stylus, and it works very well. Combat 
 is fairly simple. You simply tap for a stab, slash for a side slash, and draw a circle for a spin 
 attack. The toned down combat system made fighting enemies more of chore than actual fighting. 
 Also, boss battles are fairly easy, unfortunately. Don't get me wrong, they're still fun for the 
 most part. The difficulty on them could've been harder though. The stylus is pretty much used for 
 everything else: moving around, accessing menus, jotting down notes on your map, etc. etc. But 
 the way the stylus gameplay was implemented was very well done. It makes aspects like accessing 
 menus and combat fast and easy.
  
  All in all, Phantom Hourglass is one of the greatest DS games I've played so far. The main gripe 
 I had was the issue of difficulty. Most of the puzzles are usually easy to figure out, boss battles 
 are push-overs, dungeons are short, and, well, do I need to say more? But don't be mistaken. The 
 Zelda quality is still there. This IS one of the best Zeldas out there. You'll spend at least 20 
 hours through the whole thing, and slightly more if you stop to collect everything. All the way 
 through the end, I was very satisfied with Phantom Hourglass. Things like the Temple of the Ocean 
 King gave the game at least some sort of challenge. Although this game appeals more to newcomers 
 to the series, don't get me wrong. It's still Zelda and it's still great!
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: sc_ajk29
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jul 11, 2008 2:36 pm PT
Review:  The Legend of Zelda: Phantom Hourglass is the first game in the hit adventure series The Legend 
 of Zelda for the DS. Following the events that took place in the Wind Waker, Link sets off with 
 his friend Tetra to chase after the Ghost Ship, which is rumored to be loaded with treasure. When 
 they catch up with the Ghost Ship, Tetra disappears. Link jumps onto the Ghost Ship to rescue Tetra, 
 but he falls off and gets washed up onto a distant island. He then meets Ciela, a fairy who agrees 
 to help him rescue Tetra. Before he realizes it, Link goes on another adventure, in which he not 
 only sets out to rescue Tetra, but to banish all evil from the Great Sea.
  
  One of the main things that sets Phantom Hourglass apart from other Zelda and DS games is that 
 the control scheme is based entirely upon the touch screen. For example, to swing your sword, you 
 swing the stylus. To roll, you draw circles on the screen. To walk, you drag the stylus across 
 the screen. This control scheme worked very well, although it still has some problems. For example, 
 it is very hard to roll, since when you draw circles with the stylus, you often end up swinging 
 your sword or just walking to the area instead of rolling. This was annoying, but the controls 
 were still pretty cool.
  
  The graphics in the game were great for the DS. Although they have a slightly childish look to 
 them, don't let that fool you. This game is great!
  
  As with many other Zelda games, Phantom Hourglass has a great soundtrack. However, one weak point 
 of the music is that in dungeons, every dungeon has the same music. This doesn't seem right, since 
 every Zelda game from Link's Awakening onward had unique music for each dungeon. Other than that, 
 I give the soundtrack a thumbs up.
  
  I do agree with one criticism that most people are saying: Temple of the Ocean King. You have to 
 dive into the temple not once, not twice, but six (6) times! And each time you have to go deeper 
 into the dungeon and go through the same floors that you went through into on previous runs. What's 
 worse, you have a time limit to clear the dungeon. If you don't make it in time, you will start 
 to lose health. AND there are enemies inside called "Phantoms," which are invincible until you 
 get an item near the end of the game. True, the items you find in your quest will help you go through 
 the dungeon faster (one allowing you to kill the Phantoms) , but it was still VERY tedious, annoying, 
 and could have been done better.
  
  The Legend of Zelda: Phantom Hourglass is my second favorite DS game (after Advance Wars: Dual 
 Strike) , my third favorite Zelda game (after Ocarina of Time and Minish Cap, in that order) , and 
 the best DS game of 2007 (screw Pokemon D\P) . It is a game definitely worth the money.
  
  Gameplay: 10
  Graphics: 10
  Sound: 9
  Value: 8
  Tilt: 9
  
  Final score: 9.5\10 (superb)
 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: rjgamefreak
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jul 9, 2008 7:47 pm PT
Review:  This is my first DS game and one of my most favorite games for a Nintendo console. The first thing 
 I love about this game is how interactive it is. For example you need to use your stylus pen to 
 move around, then you can use the microphone on the DS to shout out to people or to blow out flames 
 when you need to. Because of using the stylus pen there isn't much in the way ofcontrols. By pressing 
 the arrow down you can mark locations or write notes on the map to help you through the game, then 
 when you recieve the boomerang you can draw where the boomerang goes, such as trying to reach far 
 away switches or objects. The graphics are very good for a hand held console. It's very easy to 
 see where you are going and what you need to do, and the difficulty is quite hard. At first it's 
 confusing to know what you need to do, such as walking and moving. Playing a game like this one 
 you would pry expect to use the D-pad to move, but in this game you need to use your stylus pen 
 to have your character move. That in the begging is very confusing, and the opponents are very 
 difficult some times. Besides all that it's kinda hard to figure out where your going. I was playing 
 for an hour and I was going around in circles and not knowing. If you like challenging games and 
 are a big Zelda fan and own a DS then this game should be in your collection. The overall game 
 is very fun and is a true masterpiece.
  
  Overall rating, 9.5 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rockbandlife
Rating: 10
Date: Jul 9, 2008 2:24 pm PT
Review:  wooooo hoooooooo, Zelda comes back again with this amazing sequel, Zelda phantom hour glass, this 
 game is amazing, i cant stop saying amazing, where do i start, well it starts out your an aventurer 
 with a girl named tera, or something, (i forget) on a ship, and on the seas, the news is about 
 a ghost ship where all you went on, never came off, and your courageous friend jumps on the ghost 
 ship, and in your atemp to stop her, you fall out of your boat and wake up on an island, that all 
 i will tell you about the story, i story is an amazing story by the way, what else i found amazing 
 was the controls, its all touch screen, nothing else, and also battles at sea, every thing is amazing, 
 you just have to get this game, you'll be playing it for hours, its an amazing, game. and i'll 
 leave it at that, get the game to find out the whole story, and after you get the game, you'll 
 be saying amazing all the time. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: LK9988
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jul 9, 2008 11:54 am PT
Review:  My review title is true. This WAS my first zelda game and it was plain fun every part of it. The 
 puzzles are fun and innovative like using the boomerang to hit stuff and the whole game is innovative 
 thanks to the touch screen! ( and pen) the graphics are the best i've seen for a DS game and maybe 
 one of the best i've seen altogether for a handheld console! The gameplay is innovative and awesome 
 and also has a very good storyline.
  
  The game would be too easy though for those who have been playing zelda games for quite a while 
 though but many good things cover this up!
  
  overall: with excellent graphics, awesome and innovative gameplay, a maybe epic storyline, good 
 sound and much more if you have a DS and like zelda games then... BUY  
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: EvilLemon45
Rating: 9
Date: Jul 9, 2008 8:50 am PT
Review:  Some may think that a hand-held Zelda meant a smaller, and therefore worse game. Well think again. 
 It may be a little short for hard-core DS gamers such as myself, but more casual gamers will get 
 a blast out of this.
  
  This is the sequel to the Wind Waker [GC] , which was an incredibly enjoyable adventure with a tonne 
 of replay factor and Phantom Hourglass delivers no less. In fact, it improves on the original in 
 more ways than one. The most significant one, is that the game is played entirely with the stylus, 
 which works incredibly well.
  
  For starters, the amount of sea in Wind Waker was ridiculous, taking an incredibly long time to 
 go from island to island, making it the wrong game for a quick 10-minute blast. Well, Nintendo 
 have listened to the criticism, making the ocean many times smaller, making it much easier to get 
 from place to place.
  
  There's more than 10 islands, and most of them have some kind of dungeon on, but one temple, The 
 Temple of the Ocean King, you will keep coming back to, for reasons I won't display here. Each 
 time you return delving deeper into it's mysteries. You can go back through these dungeons once 
 you've done them too, but treasure chests and bosses won't come back, which is a bit disappointing 
 and also leaves practically no drive to enter dungeons that you've done before unless you've missed 
 treasure.
  
  But there are also tonnes or hidden treasure to find, whether it is Spirit Gems to give your sword 
 special powers, or heart containers to increase your maximum life. Another thing that keeps it 
 alive is the inclusion of Multi-Player. Even though it isn't an extra in the story, allowing two 
 Links to play at once through the story, the game is rather enjoyable. When you're playing against 
 your friends. Even though it has Wi-Fi, and even though that has friend connect, it just doesn't 
 give an incentive to play apart from a few treasures that you can get in game for playing online. 
 When you're playing against a friend in the same room however, the game becomes strangely addictive; 
 with 9 maps to play on, you either have the task of collecting Force Gems as Link, or the Phantoms 
 who are trying to kill Link. After about 2 minutes, you swap over. You do this 3 times and the 
 person with the most points at the end of the 3 rounds wins. Link is controlled with the touch 
 screen like the single-player mode, and the 3 Phantoms are controlled by drawing their path on 
 the map with the stylus.
  
  +LEMON LOVES+
  +The smaller ocean
  +The Multi-Player (With Friends)
  +The low amount of lag on Online
  ++The great story
  ++The 
 sheer diversity of the dungeons and the monsters
  +++The stylus controls
  
  -LEMON LOATHES-
  -The slightly short story
  -Multi-Player (With Anyone)
  -The lack of incentive 
 to do previous dungeons
  --The fact that there is no option to fight previous bosses.
  ---There's not enough important treasure to hunt down,
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: HappyGamingNerd
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jul 8, 2008 10:57 am PT
Review:  The Legend Of Zelda Phantom Hourglass is a nice game to add to your DS collection. This is a sequel 
 to the wind waker zelda game, wich i havent played, and that doesent matter cause it tells in the 
 beginning of the game what happend in wind waker in a nutshell.
  
  The Story is very long (i think) , and there are some cleverly done Puzzles and minigames. Some of 
 the puzzles were so hard to me that i actually had to take a look at walktrough. The visuals are 
 nice to look at. The boss fights are also pretty awesome to fight.
  You move with the stylus pen Link and slash with links sword by drawing quickly a line in front 
 of him and. You can also customise your ship with diffrent parts that you find at the sea bottom 
 or the shops.
  Theres also a online battle Mode wich is kinda cool. You have to take your crystals and take it 
 back to your own base IF your link, but when you play as the knight then you have to stop link from 
 taking his crystals back to the base by moving near him with the stylus pen, its pretty cool.
  
  Overall i had fun playing this game from the beginning to the end, when you finished the game 
 you can still try to find diffrent kinds of treasures from the island and ship parts. I think this 
 was to easy. Its a good game but not as good as The Legend of Zelda a link to the past /four swords 
 for the gba, wich i think is far more superior.
  
  Thank you for reading -HappyGamingNerd 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mapleleafs10
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jul 7, 2008 4:16 pm PT
Review:  LoZ is a game where you use stylus for everything. Walking, Running, Rolling, Sword, boomerang, 
 throwing bombs. EVERYTHING. But dont worry, it doesnt take away from the fun one bit. When you 
 first play this game, you will be hooked. Just like the other LoZ games, there are many little 
 puzzles that you need to figure out to get to the next room/area. The bosses are still unique, 
 fun, and challengeing. There are down sides to this game too, unfortunetly. Every time you go out 
 and beat a dungeon or temple, you need to come back to the ocean king temple, where you are timed 
 to beat one floor at a time. This gets very repetitave, and very annoying. Once you get about half 
 way through, you lose a bit of intrest. Personally, when i got half way through i had no intrest 
 left for this game, and stopped playing. About a month after that I started it up again, and beat 
 it. Overall this game is fun, but repetative, and after a while, boring. I would suggest renting 
 this game first. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Jamez634
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jul 7, 2008 12:31 am PT
Review:  As soon as I saw Alex Navarro's video review on this game I quickly went out and got it and it 
 was worth the rush! But let me just say, it's not as good as you think it is. It just seems so 
 different to the gameplay videos you find on the net. But it still makes an amazing DS game!
  
  STORY
  Phantom Hourglass is a sequel to the Wind Waker that you might have played on the 
 Gamecube. It starts off with Tetra, Link and their crew sailing the open seas. They have heard 
 legends about a mysterious ship called the Ghost Ship and start talking about it. Tetra supposes 
 that the Ghost Ship is just a myth or some naughty pirates up to no good. Suddenly, their ship 
 is surrounded by fog and a crew member says he can see a ship. Yep, you guessed it. It's the Ghost 
 Ship, but Tetra still doesn't believe it and boards it to explore. Then there is a scream and Tetra 
 is gone. The Ghost Ship then begins to sail away, Link jumps aboard but slips and falls into the 
 ocean below . . . 
  Link gets washed up onto Mercay Island where a fairy called Ciela finds him and wants to join Link 
 on his quest to find Tetra. Through the adventure you will meet an old man called Oshus who has 
 a secret that you will find out at the end of the game and a sailor called Linebeck who heps Link 
 get from island to island. The story is fantastic! You'll never expect what happens at the end. 
 It's amazingly lovable!
  
  GAMEPLAY
  As if you don't know, the whole game can be controlled by the stylus! You slide your stylus across 
 the screen to move Link. Draw lines and circles to swing your sword and draw a path for your boomerang 
 and lots of other things! I am very impressed with how much this game can suit the DS.
  The world is HUGE. There is so much places to go to and clever puzzles to solve that even after 
 finishing the game their are heaps more stuff to do. It's very unlikely that you will have done 
 everything in the game before finishing it. There is just so much to do! But there is one thing 
 in it which is why I have rated it a 9.5 instead of 10. In the game there is a temple called The 
 Temple of the Ocean King. You will be forced to go back there again and again and again. You just 
 don't want to do it. And quite commonly you will die in it when you're almost at the end which 
 is just torture. I just wish the Temple of the Ocean King didn't have to ruin it.
  
  GRAPHICS
  The graphics aren't as good as you would have hoped. The levels are beautifully designed 
 but the cutscenes just aren't that entertaining to watch.
  
  SOUND
  The music just makes you want to grab some headphones and listen to it louder! It's great! It sounds 
 like there's an orchestra playing some of it!
  
  Overall, The Legend of Zelda: Phantom Hourglass is a FANTASTIC game that everyone should get!
 
  
  
  
  
  
  
 
  
  Check out my blog for other reviews on other great (and not so great!) DS games! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Amm795
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jul 5, 2008 5:22 pm PT
Review:  The Legend of Zelda Phantom Hourglass is definitley a memorable game as well as one of the best 
 of the series. It includes a completley new storyline, a whole different way to control Link, but 
 of course the same creative and fun dungeons and tasks that make the game great.
  The storyline is very important to a game. Phantom Hourglass contains an interesting story but 
 it seems that it takes longer to reach the big goals than previous games in the series. However 
 it is still a great story.
  The controls are very fun and are a new turn for the series. I wasn't too excited when I first 
 learned Phantom Hourglass would be controled completley by the lower screen of the Nintendo DS 
 but once I got this game I was very pleased. It is fun and allows you to do many things you could 
 never do in the series. 
  The gameplay however is the same as normal. There are many fun dungeons with great bosses that 
 require you to do lots of things with your nintendo DS like looking above the top screen to see 
 where the boss is or sometimes even where you are. There is also a level where you must control 
 a hole other character which is also very fun (i hope this will be permanent in the future games 
 of The Legend of Zelda) .
  Overall the game is fun and is definitley not a letdown. It is almost completley perfect other 
 than the slow story and the fact that you can seen other rooms while your in another in dungeons. 
 The game is great and a must-have.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: VGobbsesser
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jul 5, 2008 3:19 pm PT
Review:  When it comes to pushing the envelope in game design and quality, few other franchises match the 
 prowess of The Legend of Zelda. With each game following the patented "a Link to the Past" formula, 
 it seems like every Zelda title tries to change and differentiate itself from the rest of the franchise, 
 and Phantom Hourglass is no different in this respect; inside the little DS game card lays an innovative 
 game that, predictably enough, pushes what you thought the DS could handle, both technically and 
 in utilization of the system's unique features. As a Zelda game, however, Phantom Hourglass falls 
 a bit short of its pedigree. It appears as if the game is suited more towards the newcomer than 
 the long-time Zelda fan, as the game lacks substance in certain aspects of its gameplay design. 
 While you will certainly be impressed by the presentation or its groundbreaking control scheme, 
 its oversimplified feel dulls what is an otherwise innovative Zelda title.
  
  Phantom Hourglass breaks from tradition a bit by being a direct sequel to 2003's The Legend of 
 Zelda: The Wind Waker, but much of the story is exactly what you'd expect from a Zelda title; Link 
 is traveling with Tetra and her band of pirates, in search of the Ghost Ship known to be haunting 
 the Great Sea. Upon running into it, Tetra climbs aboard, only to disappear into the fog and scream 
 in terror. Link chases after her, but slips, and falls into the sea. After awakening to the eerily 
 familiar shriek of "Hey!" Link, stripped of all his weapons, meets with his new fairy companion 
 on a small island, and a new adventure begins.
  
  The first thing that will immediately strike you upon firing up the game will undoubtedly be its 
 presentation. It would be no exaggeration to say that Phantom Hourglass is the best-looking game 
 the DS has to offer. In a brilliant move for the relatively weak system, Phantom Hourglass forgoes 
 the idea of a realistic art styIe and a full 3D adventure, and opts for the Wind Waker cell-shaded 
 styIe and a 2.5D perspective, using 3D models on a 2D plane. This gives the developers a lot of 
 room to decorate and detail the game, and it certainly shows. 
  
  The models and landscapes are surprisingly well detailed, and much of the game conveys a true 3D 
 feel. Cutscenes are wonderfully done, sometimes taking place on both screens, and are oftentimes 
 dripping of charm, as the character models show a great deal of emotion and expression, which results 
 in some pretty funny moments throughout the game. Traveling across the Great Sea may never cease 
 to impress you, as Phantom Hourglass reaches a near Gamecube-level of graphics in these moments. 
 That isn't to say the graphical presentation is perfect, however, but many of these issues are 
 easy to overlook considering the capabilities of the system. The textures appear very blocky in 
 cutscenes and there are some bouts of slowdown when too much comes on screen at once (this occurs 
 on the Great Sea more often than not) , but these imperfections do little to take away from the 
 moments you will spending gushing over the graphics.
  
  The soundtrack will probably not impress you quite as much as the graphics will, but it does convey 
 a similar sense of "epicness." The sound and clear quality of the composition almost match that 
 of its console cousins, but the lack of varied or stand-out tracks make the audio portion of the 
 game just a bit weaker than the graphics. The sound effects, like a bomb exploding, don't sound 
 quite as loud as you would expect them to be, but this could be attributed to the illusion of having 
 a true 3D adventure in the palm of your hand.
  
  Of course, the meat and potatoes of any game would have to be the gameplay. Phantom Hourglass remains 
 to true to the formula established by A Link to the Past, revolving around the typical "enter a 
 dungeon, get new item, defeat boss with item" convention and the usual puzzles the franchise is 
 known for, but the main change (s) of Phantom Hourglass would be the new means of input and player 
 control. 
  
  Much like Phantom Hourglass serves to be a showcase for the audiovisual capabilities of the system, 
 it also serves to be a game that cleverly uses nearly all of the features of system, from the microphone, 
 to the dual screens, and especially the touch screen.
  
  In an unheard-of decision, Nintendo reduces the entire game to be controlled by the touch screen, 
 rendering the buttons as "hotkeys" for menus and such, and with good results. Movement is handled 
 by sliding the stylus across the screen to guide Link, with rolling being handled by quickly "shaking" 
 the stylus on the top of the screen. Combat is handled by tapping an enemy or by drawing a line 
 in between you and the enemy to swing your sword, with the trademark spin attack done by drawing 
 a circle around Link.
  
  Puzzles are also tackled in some new, interactive ways. The handiest change would have to be the 
 ability to scribble and draw on your map, which is almost always displayed on the top screen. This 
 grants you a great deal of versatility. Certain numbers and switches, for example, which would 
 previously have to be memorized or written down externally, can quickly be jotted down on the screen 
 above to make the experience a bit more enjoyable. Similarly, drawing certain lines on the map 
 may help you determine where exactly you need to be looking for, as a handful of puzzles require 
 you to intersect certain points on the map to reveal a certain secret. The clamshell design of 
 the dual-screened system is also used one step further in a memorable puzzle, requiring you to 
 close your DS to gain the desired affect.
  
  The microphone is utilized fairly frequently. There are moments in the game where you will have 
 to blow into the microphone to, sayblow out a flame. Or perhaps, you may have to scream into the 
 microphone to lower the price of a certain item to your liking. The latter example, however, can 
 be very frustrating and potential embarrassing. The game may not always respond to your actual 
 speech pattern or yelling, which may leave you literally screaming into the system to get what 
 you want. Considering you may be always around a few people while doing so, or even in a crowd 
 considering the handheld nature of the game, this feature isn't as welcomed.
  
  Items are handled in a new manner, and the touch screen goes a long way to make them feel fresh 
 again, despite some being used for over two decades. The boomerang, for example, is controlled 
 by drawing the desired path on screen. The bow and arrow gains a slightly higher degree of accuracy 
 with the ability to guide it exactly to where you would like using the stylus. The bomb-chu (a 
 little moving bomb) is guided by drawing a path on the map, and many other items, nearly all of 
 which are reoccurring, gain a new feel to them with Phantom Hourglass.
  
  While it may seem like such a drastic change to only permit touch screen controls, it works smoothly 
 and intuitively. The learning curve in the game is extremely quick, as tapping and drawing on the 
 screen should come naturally to anybody whom has been using the DS for a while. But overall, it 
 would be hard to say they are necessarily better than the convention D-Pad controls. There are 
 a couple moments (specifically near edges) where you may desire the "rigid-but-precise" movements 
 of the D-Pad, and it may be a bit tiring to some to constantly tap and draw across the screen without 
 end. Frustration can occur when the game responds to a small movement interpreted as an attack 
 if you even lift the stylus a bit when trying to move. At the same time, the new controls are groundbreaking 
 in their own right. At best, it can be said that the touch screen-only control scheme is on par 
 of that of a normal control scheme, if just a smidge better.
  
  The entirely new mean (s) of interaction was a bit of a gamble, yet it stands as a mostly successful 
 effort; the touch screen controls and other bells and whistles of the game give a lot to the game, 
 yet also take away just as much. 
  
  Because the entire game waters down the standard Zelda formula to simple taps and strokes, Phantom 
 Hourglass carries an uncomfortable oversimplified feelat least to "veterans" of the franchise. 
 Games like Ninja Gaiden: Dragon Sword and Kirby Canvas Curse, both of which are controlled exclusively 
 by the touch screen as well, managed to bypass this feeling by delivering an entirely new gameplay 
 formula, with their normal conventions mixed up or briefly used, but in the case of Phantom Hourglass, 
 which takes a well-known formula and reduces its control to the use of an admitted pen, it feels 
 "dumbed down," so to speak. Fans of the franchise may take note, while those unfamiliar with the 
 franchise probably won't. 
  
  The dungeon designs also exude of a simplified feeling. While all the dungeons are good, they lack 
 a great deal of complexity. Most are comprised of multiple floors, filled with a number of fun 
 puzzles, but there are little links or interactions between them. The game usually drives around 
 each section of the floor, in an almost complete circle, and then leads you to the next floor, 
 with very little backtracking. Each dungeon always seems to lead you back to the beginning of the 
 dungeon while leading you on, somehow embracing the fact that you may quit at any time as typical 
 of a handheld game. However, the inherent nature of the Zelda formula may keep you playing each 
 dungeon to the end without quitting, which leaves the continuous paths back to the beginning nearly 
 useless. Certain dungeons have puzzles that may leave you scratching your head for a couple of 
 minutes, but these do not go far enough to add the needed complexity to the dungeon designs.
  
  The bosses, which appear in every dungeon, however, are some of the star moment of Phantom 
 Hourglass. While the Zelda clich of "use the dungeon item to defeat boss" stands here, the game 
 keeps each of the boss battles fresh and inventive, requiring you to think outside the box quite 
 often. The boss battles make use of both screens, giving them a large, cinematic feel. One boss 
 requires you to fly into the air and hit certain points on its body that stands tall on both screens. 
 Another requires you to see from the perspective of the boss on the top screen. The biggest criticism 
 about them would be their length; nearly all of the bosses can be defeated in a matter of a couple 
 minutes, but the memory of them will certainly linger in your head until the end of the game.
 
  
  Sailing once again returns, and mostly for the better. Rather than manually controlling the ship 
 as was necessary in Wind Waker, all you need to do is draw the path on the map, and it will guide 
 you to the next port. The game keeps you busy by throwing enemies and hazards to you quite often 
 (with a bomb cannon being your main means of offense against them) , and the small size of each 
 quadrant of the map keeps each journey from winding out too long, making each square foot of the 
 sea have a bit more meaning, which could not be said about the barren overworld of Wind Waker. 
 The controls are basic, with only a tap required for an attack, and the camera adjusted by sliding 
 the stylus across the screen. The lack of discovery or ability to get off the ship at any time 
 contributes to the game's watered down feeling, but the change of pace is much appreciated.
  
  That isn't to say that Phantom Hourglass is completely free of pacing problems, however. Serving 
 as a "master dungeon" of sorts, you will be constantly be revisiting a dungeon called Temple of 
 the Ocean King throughout the game. While the multi-floored dungeon itself is well designed and 
 is quite challenging in comparison to the rest of the dungeons, coming back to it every so often 
 feels a bit unnecessary. The game forces you to play through every section you did before, with 
 only a midway point to palliate the frustration. Adding to the frustration, the dungeon is filled 
 with invincible enemies (referred to as "Phantoms") that can only be stunned, and a time limit 
 that prevents you from taking your time or making any mistakes. There are safe zones that will 
 prevent the enemies from seeing you and stops the counter in your timer briefly, but if your timer 
 does run out, you will take damage unless you are in a safe zone. The dungeon itself is good, but 
 it is mucked up with some poor design choices, and you will dread returning to it.
  
  Phantom Hourglass delivers a healthy dose of length and replay value, taking somewhere between 
 ten to fifteen hours to finish. The game is filled with a number of amusing mini-games, and the 
 game's lengthy trading sequence will certainly keep you busy. There are a few types of gems you 
 can collect throughout the game to upgrade certain parts of your character, and you can collect 
 parts to upgrade your ship, but in a rather odd choice, there are no pieces of heart in this installment, 
 contributing to the simpler feel.
  
  There's also an online mode, requiring you to carry force gems to your base while the other player 
 guides three Phantoms to kill you, similar in idea to part of the Temple of the Ocean King. This 
 mode isn't as engaging as the single player campaign, but it can be fun in short bursts. The game 
 rewards you with certain items in the single player adventure if you accomplish certain objectives, 
 but the game is a complete package with just the single player alone, and you can skip the online 
 mode altogether; you aren't missing much.
  
  For all the things Phantom Hourglass does right, it lacks one thing that undermines the entire 
 experience: substance. As a showcase for the DS, Phantom Hourglass is absolutely fantastic, pushing 
 the DS to its absolute limits, but as a Zelda game, it delivers a good, but oversimplified experience. 
 The game clearly isn't geared towards the "veteran" of the franchise, as the game lacks much of 
 the complexity and depth of its predecessors, but newcomers will certainly be comfortable with 
 its accessible design. If you thought the previous installment in the franchise, Twilight Princess, 
 was a bit too familiar for your liking, you may enjoy Phantom Hourglass a bit more, but the rest 
 may be left a little disappointed.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: kbplayer
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jul 5, 2008 7:55 am PT
Review:  Toon Link returns from Wind Waker! You just have to love that toonish look! The game starts out 
 as Tetra being kiddnapped by a ghost ship! Toon Link tries to jump on the boat but he falls in 
 the sea. Then he is found lying on the beach by a fairy! It turns out that the ghost ship has dangerous 
 evil powers and no one has ever ecsaped it! Toon Link doesn't care about it and starts his adventure. 
 The graphics in this game are a bit scratche compared to Wind Waker but you'll get over it. This 
 game has the most use of the stylest on the D. S. You touch the screen to move Link and you sort 
 of drag it to where you want him to go. You simply touch enemies to do a homing attack, and draw 
 a strait line to slash, and draew a circle to swing your sword around. You also have a map to draw 
 on to make notes which makes things easier to underatand. Great boss fights, use of stylist, and 
 a great story line! This is a must get! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: futtii
Rating: 9
Date: Jul 4, 2008 4:52 pm PT
Review:  This game features of the Zelda series and is the first Zelda game to hit the DS. It has a very 
 unique control system usuing the stylus and is simply a great game. You go around as Toon Link 
 fighting monsters and throwing bombs and using your handy boomerang everywhere. It is a stylus 
 type moveement and you can pinpoint locations usuing your stylus. Everything is revolved about 
 the stylus, hitting, moving etc..
  
  You also have a ship handy to do whatever you want with! Shoot bombs, jump obstacles and more. 
 Your main character which you use is Linka dn you have to go rescue a princess named Zelda.
  
  This game is not easily thrown away, I assure you will be coming back to it again and again! 
 It is a difficult game and can get frustrating so watch out :D!
  
  I give this game a 9.0 simply because it is fabulous!
  [9.0]
  futti ;) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: zikimaru88
Rating: 9
Date: Jul 3, 2008 10:08 pm PT
Review:  The Legend of Zelda Phantom Hourglass is the sequel to the Wind Waker which I never got to play 
 through the whole game but it is a great game that actually won handheld game of the year for 2007 
 for a good reason. Its awesome controls make a giant impact to the game making it innovative and 
 it makes you feel like your actually in the game.
  
  
  Gameplay: Exploring dungeons, killing phantoms, and saving Princess Zelda. Gee, I wonder what game 
 this could be. OK I give up, The Legend of Zelda Phantom Hourglass. The game features Link and 
 Tetra (Zelda) at the beginning of the game. Tetra gets kidnapped by a mysterious Ghost Ship and 
 Link trys to save her. He falls off the ship and crashes into the ocean. He is awoken by a fairy 
 named Celia. He also teams up with a greedy ship captain named Lineback. He then must venture to 
 save Tetra. The game overall is pretty short but fun while it lasts. The controls are excellent. 
 You use the stylus for everything. Its pretty complicated to go to in depth, but its awesome. The 
 multiplayer also is fun and very competitive. If you dont have this game and you have a DS, go 
 buy this game know!!!!!!!!!!! The only complaint that going back to the temple of the ocean king 
 gets so repetitive, and really kills the games awesome concept.
  
  Graphics: The best 3-D graphics the DS has seen.
  
  Sound: Really good music and sound effects.
 
  
  Unlockables and Extra Content: Not too much once you beat the game.
  
  Replay Value: Moderate
  
  
  
  Final Summary: An awesome game but I have to knock off a 
 whole point for repetitive gameplay.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: amo_lang123
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jul 3, 2008 2:43 am PT
Review:  When I got this game I knew it would be fun. I didn't realize just how fun. Of all the ds games 
 this is the best.
  The controls are sweet. It is one of the few games that you don't need any buttons. Just the stylus. 
 That alone made me interested. But you have to be careful because there are times where your screen 
 gets scratched a bit. There also are some difficult areas where rolling gets hard and things like 
 that. But overall I thought it was great. Truly revoulutionary.
  The story was good. It was longer than I expected and had lots of hillarious characters and scenes. 
 What was really annoying was that there was often parts that u would have to do over and over again (like 
 the temples) when you needed to go back to certain areas.
  The graphics were really good to me. They definetely were not realistic but fun in their "cartoony" 
 way. There were a few areas where stuff looked ruff or Link would walk through small sections of 
 wall. But nothing more.
  Online play was really the worst part. Yuk. Basically it's like pacman or something of that style. 
 It was fun one or two rounds but otherwise... lame. The best part of online was that it had a pretty 
 good ranking system. (That was the only reason to play: to rank up)
  Overall, I think that this game was worth the money and time. By the time I was done I was hoping 
 that it wasn't done but that it would continue. Now my wish is a sequel! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mikester15
Rating: 10
Date: Jul 1, 2008 9:26 pm PT
Review:  This was a very cool game than expected. There's plenty of adventure to it with new characters, 
 new movements, and new items and stuff. What makes the game so interesting is that you can use 
 the stylus to move Link instead of having to use the left controls. Another cool part is that you 
 can write your notes on the bottom screen, but sometimes it can be a bit tricky to do so. Even 
 at that, I think I would recommend this game to players that are interested in adventure more than 
 anything else! I even made it through that game despite having difficulty with the final boss. 
 Lol! Another cool thing is that you can talk to other people by touching them instead of pressing 
 B, which makes it easy to do. So with a game cool like this, I think I'll try out a few Legend 
 of Zelda games and see if they are cool like Phantom Hourglass. I uploaded my own gameplay of the 
 game as well. Just visit my profile page and click on the video located to the bottom right of 
 the screen after scrolling down. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: eliotie
Rating: 9
Date: Jun 30, 2008 8:27 am PT
Review:  like i said it a great game with great graphics and gameplay the only thing that makes it less 
 interesting is that same level that you have to pass again and again and the level is precisly 
 the hardest most chalenging one in the game. the level is the temple of the ocean king each time 
 you need a new sea chart you have to go back and go deaper . whats annoying in it ill tell you 
 one it sucks the life out of you and the only way to stop it is to have the phantoum hourglass 
 which has limited time two the enemies cant be killed and kill you in one blow three the puzzles 
 are hard to solve when you have them scouting around looking for you. but this only level doesent 
 take away the hours of fun in the other levels boos fights are superbe i just want to batlle every 
 boss again and again .one of the great things in the game is that it uses the full potential of 
 the ds you play with almost everything the mic the stylus andyou even have to close you ds to solve 
 one of the puzzles . in the end its a great game that i recomend anybody to buy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mariofan2008
Rating: 9
Date: Jun 27, 2008 5:33 pm PT
Review:  Heres most of the things you'll need to know about The Legend Of Zelda: Phantom Hourglass:
  
  1. Graphics
  Great graphics! Cartoon-like characters and great use of color!
  
  2. Controls
 
  Use your stylis for most things. Doesn't ask if your a righty or lefty, but still works fine.
 
  
  3. Story-line
  Exellent story-line that continues where Wind Waker leaves off. Tetra boards the ghost ship, pirates 
 come to rescue her, Link helps big time.
  
  4. Fun?
  Very fun and very interesting. It gets hard sometimes but it still is a fun game.
  
  5. Requirments
 
  Fast hands, working brain, lots of interest in Zelda games, good eyesight.
  
  6. Important stuff
  Zelda is a princess, Tetra is a pirate, Link is a swordsman, Linebeck is 
 a sailor, the sea is made up of water, cannons have unlimited cannonballs, sometimes it gets tricky.
 
  
  Thats pretty much all I need to say. Hope you like my review! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Nighthawk89
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 25, 2008 12:03 am PT
Review:  My review of The Legend of Zelda: Phantom Hourglass can be nothing other than gushing endorsement. 
 A magnificent accomplishment for Miyamoto and his team, this is so far the only game I've ever 
 rated a 10.0 on Gamespot, and the rating comes with good reason.
  What can I say about PH? It starts with the classic Zelda formula: a nuanced battle system, puzzle-based 
 gameplay, varied item collecting, and a fairly interesting and invested storyline. What brings 
 it above and beyond the fold of an average Zelda is the new implementation of its control scheme 
 on the DS. Almost the entire game can be controlled with the DS pen and either the L or R button. 
 Every action on screen is mapped to a movement of the DS pen, and the system is surprisingly easy 
 to use, yet deep in its set up. The pen is extremely responsive and Link's movement flows smoothly 
 in accordance with wherever you direct him. Battles are fun and the new gameplay system brings 
 new, interesting life to old items such as the bow or boomerang. One of the items you require late 
 in the game, the grappling hook, is a particular pleasure to use, doubling as a battle item, it 
 can drag you by attaching to numerous surfaces, across lengthy gaps and up seemingly insurmountable 
 heights. The boomerang, with its new ability to be directed in any path you choose, becomes one 
 of the best long range weapons you require, though each item brings a new and innovative way to 
 challenge you.
  The landscape you are given to explore in PH is implemented in a much better fashion than its predecessor, 
 Wind Waker. While that sailing adventure could get boring because of the tedium brought by sailing 
 across vast waters, PH keeps sailing interesting in a number of ways. First, you constantly meet 
 enemies to dispatch with your cannon. You can also come across other sailing ships, or even new 
 islands that don't appear on your map at first. Because you draw the path before setting sail, 
 you are free to pan the camera around the landscape, catching sights and dealing with anything 
 in your path. Setting a new course is also easy with a quick trip to the sea chart. As to the islands, 
 there are plenty to explore for a hand held Zelda, and plenty of side quests on those islands to 
 try out; not necessary to the gameplay, but by no means worth missing.
  As to the storyline, it's fairly average for a Zelda, but what truly makes it great are the characters. 
 Linebeck, Grandpa, Ciela, Jolene; they're truly unique characters who you can get emotionally invested 
 in and care about. Linebeck's endgame actions are particularly heartwarming, and memorable on par 
 with the final scene with Zelda and Link in Ocarina of Time.
  All in all, I really am at a loss to post any complaints about PH, except one: The Temple of the 
 Ocean King. This was the one annoying thing in PH, repetition just isn't that fun, and having to 
 do this temple five times over is just cruel. What saves it from being utterly horrid is how it 
 changes each time you play, either adding new levels or allowing you to circumvent levels to get 
 to deeper levels more quickly. It doesn't completely relieve the frustration, but this one blip 
 on the game is just not enough to reduce my opinion of the overall package. A worthwhile, superior 
 sequel to Wind Waker, Phantom Hourglass is the best hand held, and one of the best Zelda games 
 ever created. No DS owner should be without a copy of this masterpiece. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Nikki-No-Credit
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jun 26, 2008 8:20 am PT
Review:  Well... what can i say, Fab! that's what i can say! what a game.
  
  It has a great story line which isn't just 'something happens then you go make it right' this is 
 a 'something happens, lots of other stuff happens and then something else happens which makes you 
 go :O' game which is my favourite kind.
  
  it's really intense going through the temple of the ocean king and running away from the phantoms, 
 and when you're against the clock (well.. the phantom hourglass) it just adds to the whole atmosphere 
 of the game.
  
  the graphics are really good for a ds game, my favourites being the different temples and the light 
 from the flames on the torches and the candles.
  
  this game makes good use of the touch screen such as drawing a circle around link causes him to 
 spin his sword when surrounded by enemies.
  
  the only problem i have with this game is that the boat journey's are a bit dull especially before 
 you get the cannon
  
  also, this game really distracted me from my biology homework, you have been warned! :P 
::::::

::::::
UserName: vanderbruggen
Rating: 9
Date: Jun 22, 2008 7:47 am PT
Review:  Finally a Zelda game came out to the Nintendo DS. And this game will rock your socks off!!!
  
  Gameplay:
  Everything in this game is controlled with the stylus, which works surprisingly 
 good, it's easy to use and makes this Zelda game a unique experience. The combat and puzzles is 
 very great and rarely gets frustrating. One of the best things about this game is the boss fight. 
 In these fights the DS's dual screens will be used, and it works very well. The microphone is also 
 used to complete some tasks. Overall the gameplay in The Legend of Zelda: Phantom Hourglass is 
 very innovative and works perfect.
  
  Graphics:
  This game looks very good, the characters are well made and the environment is colorful and beautiful. 
 It's definitely one of the greatest looking games for the NDS. 
  
  Sound:
  Well again this is also very good. Typical Zelda music I would say, but it's a good soundtrack. 
 Maybe some voice acting could have made this game a bit better, but I was satisfied with the audio 
 in this game.
  
  Value:
  The game has some 25 hours of game play. There is some wifi battling, but it's not very good. I 
 don't think there is that much replay value to this game, but the game is long enough to keep you 
 busy for some time.
  
  Overall Zelda Phantom Hourglass is a great action adventure game, which will keep most NDS owners 
 entertained for some time. This game can easily be recommended to anyone who owns a Nintendo DS.
 
  
  Gameplay: 10
  Graphics: 9
  Sound: 8
  Value: 8
  Tilt: 9
  
  Total: 9 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: fellowbetrayed
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jun 17, 2008 3:27 pm PT
Review:  When I considered buying a DS, Phantom Hourglass was the big game I was most looking forward to. 
 After having played through it, I would easily encourage anyone who had the same inclination to 
 follow their instincts and pick this game up.
  
  As you may know, this game is a direct sequel to Wind Waker for the Gamecube. Having never played 
 it, I was somewhat worried that some of the story elements in Phantom Hourglass would be lost on 
 me, but I'm happy to report that this game achieves it's own singularity despite being a 'sequel'. 
 The world created is full of life and adventure, and the characters stand out and become important 
 and more enjoyable the further you advance through the game.
  
  If you've enjoyed playing any Zelda games in the past, you're bound to enjoy Phantom Hourglass. 
 It has all the elements that make the previous games classic, along with many touch-screen exclusive 
 additions that really take this game to another level. The ability to make notes on your map and 
 trace the flightpath of your boomerang are nifty little additions, and controlling Link's movement 
 with the stylus is very smooth and easy (despite the occasional wrist cramp or blind spot created 
 by your stylus-hand.) In addition to the control-related stylus additions, the creators of this 
 game came up with some very creative and enjoyable uses of the dual-screen abilities of the DS. 
 I won't spoil them here, but they really did a great job at making both screens feel vital and 
 necessary throughout the duration of your journey.
  
  As I said, the game is a bit on the easy side as far as Zelda games are concerned. Gone are the 
 days of being absolutely sure to stock up on potions and trapping faeries in jars to bring you 
 back to life. The lack of challenge may only be missed by the 'hardcore' gamers, however, because 
 despite it's lack of significant challenge, this game is just plain fun enough to make up for it. 
 The dungeons are a bit on the small side, yet still remain satisfying, and many of the boss battles 
 are some of my favorite to date. The majority of the enemies are not particularly out of this world, 
 but the bosses really pull up the slack and make completing a dungeon feel fulfilling.
  
  If played straight through from front to back you could likely finish it in 15 hours or less. As 
 is par for the course with Zelda games, however, there are lots of little extras to be had which, 
 while not being necessary to complete the game, are worth taking time to dig into, even if just 
 briefly. The main quest is obviously the draw here, but you can extend that out by taking time 
 to find the various uncharted islands, uncover various buried treasures, trick out your ship, etc.
 
  
  Had this game been on a traditional console, I likely would have scored it closer to a 7. It at 
 times feels a bit familiar and that, in addition to the lack of significant difficulty, would have 
 the effect of turning this into something of a 'diet' Zelda game. However, with all of the touch-screen 
 additions and the new life in which they breath into the formula, this game is right on the cusp 
 of being a classic, one which I would easily encourage anyone to pick up and play if they are a 
 fan of Zelda in general or even just have a curiosity about this game... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Kirby-fu-
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jun 11, 2008 7:57 pm PT
Review:  The Legend of Zelda Phantom Hourglass is a great looking game that is equally as good in gameplay. 
 This game will amaze, it doesn't push any limits but it possibly makes the best use of the DS's 
 touch screen.
  
  Gameplay-
  The gameplay in Phantom Hourglass is easy and fun and you'll be begging to be ambushed so you can 
 use your spin attack and flick your stylus across the screen. It' makes all aspects of fighting 
 fun but unfortunately after a long while it gets repetitive, but honestly I'm not complaining as 
 I still like it a lot. the puzzles in the game are as confusing as ever but I'm not complaining. 
 Expect to break out the walkthrough at points as these get complicated, they still give you the 
 biggest feeling of accomplishment in the gaming world with the famous jingle.
  
  Story-
  The story if very well put together but after a while you may lose sight of what your main goal 
 is as you go through loads of different things like the ghost ship, temples, power gems, etc. 
 
  
  Graphics-
  The visuals in the game look tremendous. The cartoony style is fresh and different and the direct 
 style hasn't been seen since Wind Waker. they never seem to slip up but at parts there are small 
 glitches you either have to see many times of be looking for them to catch.
  
  Overall this is easily one of the best on the DS and a must own for any fan of the series or person 
 looking for a great game, and trust me after this game you'll become a fan anyways.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: SpiritOf
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jun 9, 2008 4:27 pm PT
Review:  The Legend of Zelda: The Phantom Hourglass is latest entry in the very long line of the Nintendo 
 adventure franchise, and although this game doesn't fundamentally break much new ground, when it's 
 all over you're not going to care that much. The same old "if it ain't broke, don't fix it" mentality 
 is there, but it's such perfect formula and executed with such flair that you'll barely notice 
 that PH is the same game that we've all been playing for the last 20+ years.
  
  You play as Link (shocking, I know) and the story picks up right after the events of the Wind Waker 
 game. Link is at sea with the pirates of the previous game and that ships captain, Tetra. The crew 
 is on the look out for the "Ghost Ship", a ship that is said to contain massive amounts of lost 
 gold. In adventure game fashion the crew does run into the fabled Ghost Ship, and in adventure 
 game fashion things don't exactly go as planned. Tetra is kidnapped, Link is tossed overboard, 
 and he wakes up on the shore of an unknown island. If you know Zelda games, then you know the rest. 
 Link must track down Tetra *cough*Zelda*cough* by unlocking and exploring various towns, dungeons, 
 and mini-games, freeing her, and destroying the ultimate evil that is terrorizing the world.
  
  Where this game sets itself apart from it's elders is, of course, the DS touch screen. Everything, 
 and I do mean everything, is done thru the touch screen. Combat involves tapping and slashing the 
 enemies on screen, opening menus involves touching boxes at the bottom of the screen, walking/running 
 involves holding the stylus down in the area you need to go, and throwing objects (like the eventual 
 boomerang) involve drawing the path you wish it to take. There's also moments where you'll need 
 to rub the screen or draw objects, and all of this is handled incredibly well. Movements and actions 
 are super intuitive, almost to the point that it feels like as if it blunts some of the challenge. 
 The puzzles are still there, and are still uber-fun, and use the new DS control scheme very well, 
 but the combat gets kind of stale after awhile. Battles end up being very point-and-click, with 
 very few (none for me actually) that felt like I was in a "do or die" situation.
  
  Where the game truly shines though, and is the one thing I loved about Wind Waker so much, is the 
 art direction and overall charming look. I don't care what anybody says, I love the cartoonish 
 cell shaded look of Wind Waker and Hourglass. It jives much more with the franchise and I never 
 really understood how anyone could look at a Zelda game and think or want a "super hardcore, realistic, 
 D&D fantasy". I like my Zelda's light, fun, and with a little self referential wink here and there. 
 I hope beyond hope that Nintendo will at least keep this look and style for the DS iterations of 
 the Zelda franchise. Maybe we can have the cartoon Zelda in the handheld world, and the darker, 
 more serious Zelda in the console world. That way everyone is happy. Right?
  
  If there's one thing that kind of puts the breaks on this game being truly phenomenal I think it 
 might have to be the game's final dungeon. This is where you learn why the game has Phantom Hourglass 
 in the title. The dungeon involves unlocking all its mysteries, but under the restriction of a 
 time limit. The hourglass gives you a certain amount of time to accomplish a set of objectives. 
 There are additional ways to add time to the hourglass as the game progresses, and for the most 
 part you won't find yourself ever truly pressed for time, it's just that you'll be visiting, and 
 revisiting, and rerevisiting this dungeon many times. The structure of the game is such that you'll 
 only be able to go so far within the dungeon at certain points in the game. Either Link won't have 
 the tools to move on or he must explore a new section or island on the world map before he can 
 move on. By the end of the game Link will have all the tools he needs to blast thru that dungeon 
 in just a few minutes, but there's a real hardcore tediousness to having to take on the same floors, 
 traps, and enemies (that reset every time you exit) over and over and over again.
  
  All in all though, if you're a fan of the Zelda series, you're probably going to love this game 
 regardless. The game's formula hasn't changed much over the years, but that's due to the fact that 
 the game's formula is damn near bullet proof. It's fun and challenging when it needs to be, the 
 controls work fantastically, and the art direction has a real sense of charm and uniqueness. I 
 may have essentially played this game several times already over the yaers, but it's pretty hard 
 to hate on a proven war horse like Zelda, and I often wonder what it would be like if Phantom Hourglass 
 were my first Zelda game ever. I would imagine that it would feel a lot like playing the first 
 Legend of Zelda on the old and dusty NES, and that can't be a completely bad thing. Can it?
  
  +Intuitive controls
  +Fantastic art direction
  +Tried and true gameplay formula
  
  
 -Fundamentally not much has changed
  -Combat is a little too easy
  -Final dungeon gets mucho tedious 
::::::

::::::
UserName: chinoasian
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jun 8, 2008 5:36 pm PT
Review:  This is the sequel to Wind Waker for the gamecube. You use Toon Link who happens to be a different 
 Link from the original. This take place after you beat the game for Wind Waker. You are riding 
 on Tetra's pirate ship until suddenly some evil entity abducted her. Tetra is also known as princess 
 Zelda if you have already played the prequel Wind Waker to find out about that. Your main enemy 
 is now the phantoms and your goal is to race though dungeons within the time limit. The clock ticks 
 within the hourglass as you race to several checkpoints within the dungeons. When you reach checkpoint 
 you can pretty much go back to that point in time and continue on with your progress through the 
 rest of the dungeons. You have to make returns to previous dungeons since there are more that you 
 need to unlock in there in the future. The control works great with the cartoonist graphics because 
 they implement each other properly. They also even included a multiplayer mode but it isn't like 
 you just go and knock out your opponent just like that. You will see when you check it out but 
 the Legend of Zelda series is best off to be known as a single player adventure then a multiplayer 
 game. For the first time in the legend of Zelda series the control with the stylish work great 
 on the ds. Phantom Hourglass is for the ds only and on the ds only straight from Nintendo peeps. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GamerDude911
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jun 7, 2008 11:22 pm PT
Review:  I admit i wasnt too sure about this game but i decided to go for it and get it. Heres what i thing 
 of it:
  
  You are the young hero Link. You are sailing the seas with a band of pirates in search of the Ghost 
 Ship, when you finally spot it, Tetra a young brave and rash girl and also the ship's captain (she 
 is also actually Princess Zelda) jumps on board the Ghost Ship to investigate, when suddenly the 
 ship sets sail all on its own. You (Link) jump up on the rails of the Ghost Ship just as its sailing 
 away but you slip off, and crash into the waters below. Hours later you wake up on an unfamiliar 
 island where you are discovered by a fiesty little fairy named Ciela, this is where your adventure 
 begins.
  
  This game has a powerful and lush visuals, and is very good for the age the DS is in. The story 
 is a powerful, engaging and intrigueing one. The characters are very charming and funny. This game 
 makes very good use of the Nintendo DS's capabilities. The stylus is a very, very very big part 
 of the game, as you need it to move everywhere, strike enemies, use other weapons, and some clever 
 things needed to complete a 'mission'. The game's missions are very cleverly made and designed, 
 there are a few mini games you can discover and play. You also have a ship (not really yours but 
 anyway) which you can customize and sail around with, you can also discover some islands that arent 
 charted on your map and explore them! It also allows you to draw and take notes on your map which 
 is a HUGE help throughout the course of the game and also da da dada!! NO GLITCHES WOO-HOO!!
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: J-man45
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jun 7, 2008 9:05 am PT
Review:  I am a huge fan of Zelda games, so I was really excited when I heard about Phantom Hourglass. I 
 bought it the day it came out or close to it. The all stylus control was very interesting to me 
 because it provided something new and using the full capabilities of the DS. The graphics were 
 a good crisp 3D and had a nice opening cutscene.
  Gameplay. The game was a little easy, although they threw in some challenging parts towards the 
 end. The Temple of the Ocean King was a good idea, but having to play over the levels you've already 
 done completely killed the purpose. The save point was nice but it really got tiresome for me after 
 a while. The regular dungeons were a little short, but fun, and the bosses, although easy, were 
 fun to fight and left me in amazement. 
  Sound. This game provided some good new songs, but there wasn't any that really stood out for me.
 
  Graphics. Nice 3D graphics that showed a bunch of different colors and textures.
  Extra features. For the first time ever in a Zelda game, Phantom Hourglass features a second mode 
 besides adventure mode called battle. A fun little diversion that you can play over Nintendo WFC. 
 It's two players and for the most part, the system runs smoothly on WFC, but sometimes there is 
 lag.
  Lasting Appeal. I am still playing this game, mainly battle mode, but this game will fully satisfy 
 you if you are a Zelda fan. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jbs87
Rating: 9
Date: Jun 1, 2008 1:40 pm PT
Review:  First off, I got the game YESTERDAY, so don't expect this review to be 100% accurate. That being 
 said, The Legend of Zelda: Phantom Hourglass is pretty impressive for a DS game. The graphics are 
 the best I've seen on the DS and the game uses EVERY FEATURE ON THE DS, including sleep mode (Yes, 
 you heard me correctly!) , wi-fi, and the mic! Anyone who played any of the 2D Zelda games (ie Zelda, 
 Zelda 2, LttP, etc.) will love this because it has the 2D gameplay, but with cel-shaded graphics 
 (just like its predecessor, Wind Waker, but slightly blockier and more 2D, gameplay-wise) . Plus, 
 the multiplayer "Battle" mode is pretty fun too! If you don't have this yet, go buy it RIGHT NOW! 
 I give this a 9 out of 10 'cause it's awesome, but with a few minor ticks, including some pacing 
 problems and a clone of Navi, named Ciela, who is almost as annoying as the OOT version. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rockwii13
Rating: 9.5
Date: May 31, 2008 7:10 pm PT
Review:  The Legend of Zelda: The Phantom Hourglass is my favorite DS game, and it's tied with Twilight 
 Princess for Wii to be my favorite Zelda game. The touch driven controls are awesome and make the 
 action more exciting. It has quite a difficulty level, and some might find the touch controls and 
 challenging puzzles a bit too much. This is definately one for the Zelda fan, and for those of 
 you who have yet to enjoy the Zelda experience, I'd play some of the past Zelda games before this 
 one.
  
  
  Gameplay: 9/10
  
  The gameplay of this game is the best I've played on a handheld system. The touch driven controls 
 are great, and make the overall experience much more fun! You swipe your stylus toward something 
 to slash at them, and tab to stab at them. You tab objects to pick up or read them, and you tab 
 to talk to people. The combat is fun, but the puzzles are very challenging. I've had to go to the 
 Gamespot guide plenty, mainly for the Temple of the Ocean King parts, which can be pretty hard. 
 The sailing in the game is really fun too. The boss battles are awesome; what else would you expect 
 from a Zelda game? It also features a fun multiplayer game in which one player trys to get as many 
 Force Gems as they can to their base, and the other controls Phantoms to try to stop them from 
 getting them. This can be played with one card via DS Download Play, or on Nintendo Wi-FI Connection.
 
  
  
  Graphics: 10/10
  
  The graphics in this game are amazing! You'll see nothing like it on the DS!
  Vivid, colorful, 
 clear graphics make for real eye candy! THe toonish Zelda style is also very cool, and I hope it 
 continues for the Zelda hand held and console titles!
  
  
  Music/Sound: 9/10
  
  The sound in this game is great too. It has nice, peaceful music, and great sound effects. The 
 only complaint I have is the dungeon music, which can be a tad depressing.
  
  
  Value: 9/10
  
  After you've completed this game, there is still plenty to do. You can go get 
 all the ship parts, find all the Power Gems, get a lot of treasure, and other stuff. Plus, you'll 
 probably play through the game again!
  
  
  This is one of the best installments in the Legend of Zelda series, and one of the best DS titles 
 around! The Legend of Zelda: The Phantom Hourglass is the perfect action/adventure game!
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: ArmyGuy0628
Rating: 8.5
Date: May 28, 2008 7:09 pm PT
Review:  I love the Legend of Zelda series and i no doubt love this game. This game brought back the adventures 
 of Cel-Shaded Link from the Gamecube to the Nintendo DS. Touch controls are very responsive and 
 versitile. The touch scree ncan be used for anything from using Link's sword to leaving hints drawn 
 onto your map so you dont forget important places or objects. The one objection about this game 
 I have is that there is now Ganon/Ganondorf and no Master Sword. What kind of Zelda game doesnt 
 have those? While the gameplay was a tad easy from time to time, I will admit that a few dungeons 
 had me stumped for a while. This game has excellent boss fights, which some of which utilize both 
 screens. This game also brought back sailing from Wind Waker. It also added new features to sailing 
 such as fishing and salvaging for treasure. While its not a "true" Zelda game in my eyes, due to 
 the lack of certain key elements, i would still recommned this game to any DS owner 
::::::

::::::
UserName: iSpeak_InClicks
Rating: 9.5
Date: May 23, 2008 4:08 pm PT
Review:  I'm not the biggest Zelda fan out there. I've never beaten a Zelda game before. But I've gotta 
 say, this game is awesome!
  
  First off: Controls.
  
  The controls are, in a word, perfect. I have had ZERO problems with the controls. You move by touching 
 and holding the touch screen. You attack by slashing on the screen. Your extra tools are controlled 
 on the touch screen. Basically, you can play the whole game without any buttons at all. However, 
 you can use the buttons as shortcuts if you want. It helps.
  
  Next: Graphics.
  
  The graphics are beautiful. Everything looks fantastic, flows smoothly. Once in a while, when you're 
 on the sea and fighting enemies, the frame rate slows a little bit. But that's not a problem really. 
 You'll get a few cutscenes, like when you open a door or meet a boss. Door animations are generally 
 the same, but good.
  
  And: Sound
  
  Link sounds great, enemies dying sound great, music sounds great. Link doesn't say anything, he 
 just shouts when he attacks and goes "oh!" when something big happens. Some familiar music. Not 
 much to say about sound, it's good.
  
  Next: Gameplay.
  
  Ok. You know about movement and fighting. Every temple you go to (I think there are about seven) 
 is PACKED with puzzles. Puzzles, puzzles, puzzles. In between puzzles, you find puzzles. Between 
 those are some closed-in battles, which are generally easy. You'll fight many cool bosses, which 
 aren't difficult, but they're fun. Some of them are on the sea, too. You'll meet many funny people. 
 You'll collect much valuable treasure. You'll draw lines to steer your ship.
  
  Interesting things.
  
  This game has quite a few oddities and quirks. You'll use your microphone 
 a few times (don't worry, you don't have to yell or make yourself look foolish) in interesting 
 ways. You can WRITE ON YOUR MAP!! So useful, you have no idea. Also, you have the awesome ability 
 to customize your ship. Along your quest, you'll run across Ship Parts, which can be attached to 
 your ship to make it look different. This is free (to you of course, but also to Link -- no Rupee 
 charge) . If you get enough Ship Parts of the same set, your ship can take more damage. Which is 
 good because fixing your ship costs you. The game gives you a random set of Parts, but not all 
 at once, you have to find them all. You also get Parts that aren't in your set. You can sell these, 
 or...
  
  Multiplayer.
  
  You have the ability to trade Ship Parts and Treasures with your friends. Each friend has to have 
 a copy of the game. You can play a Battle Mode. i can't comment on the Battle Mode, as I haven't 
 played it, but it requires 2 copies of the game and it's 2-player. You can play it online too. 
 Anyone you play against, you trade with. There's a place to choose what you want to trade, but 
 you never know what you're going to get.
  
  Breakdown.
  
  ---PROS: ---
  -Great gameplay
  -Solid extras (I didn't mention any, because I didn't want to ruin it for you, 
 but they're pretty cool.)
  -Great lines from the characters
  -Good story
  -Nice classic music
  -Usually you aren't at a loss for what to do.
  ---CONS: ---
  -It's kind 
 of short (but it's fun!)
  -The boss battles are surprisingly easy. Easier than everything else.
  -You might get annoyed 
 at having to go deeper and deeper into this certain temple.
  
  Overall, I would strongly suggest The Legend of Zelda: Phantom Hourglass. There's nothing to ruin 
 your experience with it and lots of good things to keep you going.
  
  NOTE: There is one glitch on one island in the NW Sea. You don't need to go there, but if you do, 
 you might get confused, as the directions ARE NOT RIGHT. I suppose if you're stuck there you can 
 PM me, but you'll probably get it through trial-and error. Try that first. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: JGram33
Rating: 9.5
Date: May 21, 2008 8:40 am PT
Review:  alright i just finished Zelda last night, and i must say that it was worth the time and effort. 
 i got this game back for Christmas, and i played on and off for a few months until deciding that 
 i wanted to play it through. the game gives help and tutorials onto how to play it, so game play 
 will not be difficult to learn. if you have read other reviews, they talk about how the temple 
 of the ocean king can get tedious and boring, and while it was a little tedious, it was also expanding 
 so you were never really always in the same spots. in the game you have to travel to different 
 islands and do things for the inhabitants. sailing on the seas can be a little frustrating especially 
 if you need to go across the map for just one thing, but it was a fun break up i the game play 
 and it also awarded you with enemies that drop money. i would have to say that it took me about 
 20-25 hours to beat this game. i spent a lot of nights playing it, and once you sit down and start 
 time will pass very quickly. sometimes i would say i was only going to play for an hour and in 
 the end i played for four hours. i will spare you the background of the story because you can read 
 that in the official reviews, but this is definitely a game to pick up. i would say right now its 
 one of my top games on the ds, and i was very disappointed when it ended yesterday. the ending 
 clears up everything you want to know, and leaves you very satisfied. go out and buy this game, 
 you wont be disappointed. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: betsyfay
Rating: 9
Date: May 18, 2008 11:47 pm PT
Review:  The legend of Zelda: twilight princess came out in 2006 as a wii launch title and was a truly amazing 
 experience. Now another zelda game has come and it is a fine peice of software.
  
  Gameplay: You play as Link. You explore islands and dig up treasure chests as well as fight bosses. 
 You use the stylus to move Link and simply tap on an enemy to make him attack. There are some things 
 that the controls could have done without like having to blow onto the screen which you do not 
 have to do very much but it is kindove frustrating when you have to do it. Also there is the temple 
 of the ocean king which you have to keep going back to over and over again and it gets kindove 
 frustrating and can make a game that flows very nicely for the most part end up lagging a bit. 
 The dungeons themselves where you solve puzzles and fight bosses are very fun and uniqe. There 
 are, of course heart containers to get and deafeating each boss gets you more sand for the phantom 
 hourglass, which is used to have more time to get deeper into the ocean kings temple. The dungeons 
 do feel a bit short and the enemies are not the most chalenging but the game itself has a nice 
 lentgh and has neat side quest. It also has multiplayer which is nice and it is pretty good.
  
  Graphics: It uses wind wakers art style and it looks spectaculer on ds. The developers took 
 time to model the charecter and enemie desighns and it is beutifall to look at. It has some nice 
 touches and it has breathtaking cutscenes for a ds game.
  
  Sound: Like any zelda game, it has a great musical score with quite a feuw new melodys as well 
 as some more familiar ones. There are many nice spots.
  
  Presentation: it has a great storyline and some spectaculer graphics and sound. Some parts seem 
 to lag though, but otherwise it is superb.
  
  The legend of zelda: phantom hourglass is a great installment to a series that has stood the test 
 of time and deliverd so much. It is far from the best Zelda game, but it is a great experience 
 for a true die hard Zelda fan. Being a true die hard zelda fan I think there are many good reasons 
 to get this game if you own a ds. It will deliver.
  
  Gameplay: 8.9
  Graphics: 10
  Sound: 9.0
  Presentation: 8.5 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DeathScape666
Rating: 9
Date: May 17, 2008 9:55 pm PT
Review:  The Legend of Zelda: Phantom Hourglass is an experience unlike any other. For one, you control 
 the game entirely with the touch screen. You don't use any buttons at all, aside from opening up 
 menus and such. For the most part, this works really well. It doesn't make the combat as deep as 
 past installments, though, seeing as for the most part, you just have to click on enemies to kill 
 them. Knowing when and where to click is the challenge. 
  
  Speaking of challenge, Phantom Hourglass is seriously lacking in this department. Ocarina of Time, 
 Majora's Mask, and The Wind Waker were all considerably hard games. Twilight Princess, on the other 
 hand, was pretty darn easy. Phantom Hourglass is a cake walk. I am horrible at Zelda games and 
 often have to refer to a guide almost every ten minutes. For Phantom Hourglass is not the case. 
 For the most part, the temples seem somewhat linear, the battles probably will never kill you, 
 and figuring out where to go next isn't a challenge at all.
  
  The game doesn't have much relevance to The Wind Waker, other than the sailing aspect and some 
 other things. If you didn't play The Wind Waker, you'll still understand the storyline. It isn't 
 deep or compelling. Tetra basically turns into stone, and you have to save her. It isn't the most 
 groundbreaking story told in a Zelda title, but it isn't horrible by any means. The dialogue can 
 also be surprisingly funny from time to time.
  
  A nice feature of the game is the ability to jot down notes on the map. It's such a useful feature 
 and it's fun, too. For example, you might have to hit five switches in this order: 3, 4, 2, 5, 
 1. You can then write it down so you don't forget it. You'll also have to write down where locations 
 are on the map. This is a lot more exciting than it sounds.
  
  The sailing returns in this game, unfortunately. This time around, it's even more frustrating, 
 since you can't teleport ever. You just draw a line to where you want to go, and then sail. The 
 islands are closer together this time around, luckily. Don't think you can just go off to do whatever 
 it is while you are waiting to arrive to the island, because you can't. On the way, ships will 
 attack you and other things will just annoy the crap out of you, so you'll pretty much have to 
 be there. You can also pick up treasure to customize your ship to make it look "cooler," but it 
 isn't an exciting feature that you'll come back to time and time again.
  
  The worst part of the game is returning to The Temple of the Ocean King over and over again. You 
 have to do this about seven times. It gets even longer each time you go through. Sure, you can 
 break things apart when you get more items to make it shorter, but it's still a pain in the butt. 
 There are some guards patrolling the area, and you have to avoid them while doing the necessary 
 tasks to move down to the next floor. You can't attack these guys. It's sort of like Metal Gear 
 Solid, except it's more frustrating and boring. This is just artificially lengthening the game, 
 which isn't needed. I'd rather have an extremely fun experience that is short rather than a long 
 experience that has some dull moments here and there.
  
  The graphics and sound are awesome for the DS. I couldn't believe that my DS was capable of this. 
 The music is just as good, and it'll have you humming tunes in your head all day long. These don't 
 compare to The Wind Waker, but they are good for what they are.
  
  The multiplayer is a nice distraction from the main game, but you aren't going to spend loads of 
 hours on it. You can play offline or online, with a maximum of two people. One person controls 
 three guards using the stylus and another person is Link. Link tries to get points while avoiding 
 getting hit by the guards by collecting triangles and other objects, while the guards try to hit 
 Link. Once Link is hit, the players switch off. There are safe zones where the guards can't get 
 you. It isn't as compelling as you want it to be, but it's better than you'd probably expect it 
 to be.
  
  In closing, Phantom Hourglass utilizes the DS's capabilities to its fullest ability, taking advantage 
 of the microphone, wi-fi capabilities, graphics, and most importantly, the touch screen. Nintendo 
 has made a really interesting control scheme. At times, the controls get in the way of the game 
 play. To run, you just move the stylus where you want it to be. To roll, you draw a little circle 
 in the corner. This is where the problems begin. Sometimes you run when you don't want to roll. 
 This is a minor flaw, but it does get quite annoying. Some gamers may not like the control scheme, 
 but it is a nice change of pace. This isn't the best Zelda game, but it's certainly one worth experiencing.
 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: xxscammersxx
Rating: 9.5
Date: May 17, 2008 9:45 am PT
Review:  Just for starters, i normally review games i hate, but i'm gonna make an exception here. This game 
 is great. It uses only the touch screen, which makes combat and puzzles more fun. It innovates 
 classic items, like the boomerang, and lets you use the stylus to control where it flies. The graphics 
 are excellent, wind waker style, and the cut scenes are nice. The gameplay is classic zelda dungeons 
 with fun ship combat in between. The boss battles are fun and creative, and always involve whichever 
 item you acquired in that dungeon. I'm not going to lie, i really didn't like having to go back 
 into the Temple of the Ocean King multiple times, but the other dungeons and exploring make up 
 for it. Ship combat is fun, as is treasure hunting and finding hidden islands. There are fun distractions 
 and minigames, with nice rewards if you beat them. I would recommend this game to everyone. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: maj911
Rating: 9
Date: May 17, 2008 7:06 am PT
Review:  evevn if it was a bit easy its fighting system was incredible,
  graphics has definitly changed but..... its no longerold-school
  aymore has to be one of the best 
 they made!!!!!
  what i liked was the puzzeles and boss batteles because theyer put together. Boss battle and a puzzel 
 put together its a must buy!!!!!! Yes it does have a bit of a hard puzzeles
  but its stiil worth buying!!!!!! I may have not FULLY finished the game but the story line is one 
 of there best they made!!!!!!!!! It sorta had a part of LInk to the past in the beggining start 
 so it makes more scence
  for zelda fans!!!!! If you are a collecter of zela fans then this is a must buy for Zelda fans and 
 Gamespot collecters!!!!!
  everyone with gooooooood taste in games such as this shold get it!
  Trust me its worth the money 
 and if you can than you should buy the case because it gives you the game sticker to put on youre 
 nentendo DS Light!!!
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Metamorbis
Rating: 8
Date: May 10, 2008 3:20 pm PT
Review:  The Legend of Zelda: Phantom Hourglass is a direct sequel to The Legend of Zelda: The Wind Waker 
 and is the first game in the series on the DS. It is also the first game in the series to offer 
 a multi player aspect, which will be addressed later in the review.
  
  From the opening cut scene, a few things are made apparent. First, the cell shading graphics are 
 back from Wind Waker and they look pretty good, as far as the DS goes. Second, and probably the 
 most annoying part of the game, the dialog is written as if the player was about 5 years old. This 
 continues throughout the game and bothered me continuously.
  
  The most noticeable change is the new control scheme, which is controlled almost entirely by the 
 stylus and the touch screen. You run by touching which direction you want to go, swing your sword 
 by drawing lines on the screen, and make notes on a map (which is another thing that bothers me 
 about this game, as most of the puzzles that require it feel tacked on) .
  
  By this point, you probably are asking yourself, "if there are these many problems with the game, 
 why did this guy give it an 8?" The answer is simple, the core Zelda game play remains. Throughout 
 the game, you have to travel across the Great Sea, searching for items and going through dungeons 
 in order to save your friend, Tetra, from the evil Ghost Ship (see what I was talking about when 
 I mentioned the dialog?) It is a blast to solve the handful of dungeons scattered throughout the 
 game, although none of them are particularly challenging (the game is pretty easy overall) .
  
  The game should take about 15 hours to complete, depending on skill level, and has a very confusing 
 ending (just warning you) .
  
  The multi player feels extremely tacked on and is not that much fun to play. The Wi-Fi connection, 
 however, is very stable and matchmaking does not take too long usually.
  
  Overall, The Legend of Zelda: Phantom Hourglass is a... good, solid game. It can be very frustrating 
 with the control scheme at the beginning, but it still remains a fun game to play and recommended 
 for all DS owners. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mikeyboy1350
Rating: 6
Date: May 10, 2008 3:36 am PT
Review:  As my first Zelda game, i didn't really know the story, but after playing about 70% of the game, 
 i still didn't really understand anymore of it than i did before.
  
  Gameplay; The main part of the game is going from sailing on the sea, to a dungeon, to the sea, 
 to a dungeon that you have to do many MANY Times, which is basically the reason why i stopped playing 
 it.
  
  Graphics; Can't complain they are good for the ds.
  
  Sound; Alright, but you will hear the same noises and grunts a lot throughout the game.
  
  
 Overall; Alright game, i gave up because i hated doing that same boring dungeon over and over. 
 Basically the game is so-so. :] ]
  
  If you are a fan of the Zelda games, then this might be more appealing but might i remind you that 
 it truly does get boring, but hey, if you dont mind repeating the same dungeon after every other 
 dungeon then this is the perfect game for you ;]
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: NeoFalconHavok
Rating: 2.5
Date: May 7, 2008 6:48 am PT
Review:  Ever since Windwaker, Zelda hasn't been on top of the world since OOT (or Ocarina of Time/Zelda 
 64 for my sister's understanding) and it's all because of the friggin art style. THATS IT! And 
 then we had Twilight Princess, which was a decent offering, but Windwaker was waaaaaay better. 
 Because of this, Zelda is becoming a decaying franchise in the eyes of many. And trust me, this 
 title isn't helping it one bit.
  
  Story: 4/10
  
  As a sequel to WindWaker, I was thrilled for all the wrong reasons. It deels with some wierd Octopus 
 that kidnaps Tetra (good lord zelda doesn't catch a break [/spoiler] ) and it's up to link to save 
 her... in a nutshell. He joins up with some jackass sailor and go on a quest to find 4 stones I 
 think, and to save tetra and defeat that squid! The story is that bad.
  
  Music/Sound: 1/10
  
  Sweet jesus, the horrible music is reused for every dungeon.
  
  Gamplay: 
 5/10
  
  For god knows reason, and I mean this, nintendo decided to be innovative to the point where they 
 become too smart by half, and configure EVERY control to the stylus. Ever since the harrowing events 
 of Metroid Prime Hunters, i've hated the stylus. Every use of it pisses me off. And this game taunts 
 me in every wake of the word. You have to do EVERYTHING with the damn stylus! WTF!? I think nintendo 
 is trying to hard to live up to their rep of most innovative bastards in the industry. You have 
 to hold it in a direction to walk, slash across the screen or tap an enemy to attack them, talk 
 to people, and use weapons with it. Though the weapon usage is pretty neat for the first ten minutes. 
 walking with the stylus is the worst idea. Nobody should have to play a game where you have to 
 walk without the use of the FRIGGIN D-PAD IN HAND! Not only that but just walking will do random 
 crap all over the screen. You attack randomly or just roll when you don't want to, adding insult 
 to injury. This makes combat hellish as trying to avoid attacks is handicapped because your damn 
 hand takes up half the screen TRYING to avoid attacks! Jumping platforms isn't any easier. The 
 standard zelda gameplay is crippled by these horrible controls. Speaking of which, the gameplay 
 hasn't changed (not that i'd want it to anymore, seeing this game now) you still have to go through 
 dungeons, searching for weapons, and killing the boss. But now you have a temple of the ocean king 
 which is THE WORST PART OF THE GAME! First off, the place is poisoned. You have to use the phantom 
 Hour glass in order to survive it, but you have a limited time until you perish (yes, thats the 
 hour glass, a friggin time limit) Not only that, but the temple itself is retard difficult. Through 
 out the temple lies safe zones and phantom knights who can decrease the amount of time you have 
 by FIVE OR SIX MINUTES! Along with the fact that they are hard to avoid (thank you you stupid stylus!) 
 and have gimmicks that set you up JUST to be captured by the enemies, AND some puzzles require 
 you place 3 tri stones and picking one up SLOWS YOU DOWN, means that this place was needlessly 
 hard as hell. And these are transition levels that you have to go through SIX #$%@ING TIMES?! That 
 you have to START FROM THE BEGGINING ALL THE TIME!? What the hell was nintendo thinking!? I swear, 
 it's like they got pissed at the people who said zelda games were too easy or some ish and made 
 this game tedious as hell. Plus the sailing parts in this game are stupid. You have to use a screen 
 button to move and stop, plus having to draw lines just to TURN. This makes avoiding enemies at 
 sea hard as hell, and defeating them harder, because even if you tap the enemies, chances are you 
 will miss plenty of friggin shots! Then they have the fog parts, where you can't see a damn thing, 
 then having to redraw your own path to get back on track. This is stupid as hell! Speaking of drawing, 
 you have to draw a lot of things to memorize spots on maps, and then you have parts where you have 
 to scream at the screen like an ass just to get to your next destination. Only two bottles and 
 enemies that hardly give you health? What the hell? There's also some weird multiplayer mode that 
 no one plays on.
  
  
  Replay Value: 0/10
  
  There is NOTHING you can do after the game. No ending bonus are anything. Oh you can get ship parts, 
 if you actually give a damn to waste your time with it.
  
  Overall
  
  Good god... I have never been frustrated with a zelda title as much as Minish Cap. Honestly, stick 
 to the Orcale series for portable Zelda action. These new games are crap. Period. Phantom Hourglass 
 is NOT the true sequel to windwaker that we've been waiting for. Instead, it's a piss poor game 
 with horrible controls, stupid gimmicks, and cheap and tedious difficulty because of the horrible 
 controls. This is junk! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: -shmelo-
Rating: 8
Date: May 5, 2008 5:26 pm PT
Review:  This is a difficult review for me, I'm going to have to get negative about a Zelda game. I don't 
 want to but I'm bored right now, and do want to.
  
  Aw heck, its Zelda theres great things. For starters it picks up from the Wind Waker which I thought 
 was a fantastic game. This has more customization to your ship, sacrificing controls though. You 
 set a route, it goes along, and you shoot enemies as its going so you can't just set the DS down 
 have a drink and come back and be at your next destination.
  
  The Zelda tunes are fantastic as always, as are the whole production values period. Except for 
 the graphics which aren't that great...
  
  Theres a stupid dungeon that has to be revisited time and time again, and it has a time limit (again 
 with the time limit... it wasn't great the first time around!) . The top down action is ok, as it 
 is a hand held, but its given them an excuse to not put detail into the environments. Its all basic 
 walls, some plants here and nothing to further any visual joy.
  
  Controls are ok when shooting arrows and at times the boomerang, but using the sword is a horrible 
 task and gives the player a handicap right from the beginning adding a very unnecessary difficulty. 
 Some puzzles are ridiculous too, requiring that you think of closing your DS to copy a map...
 
  
  Characters are annoying except for Link, controls are a chore and the game doesn't look that great. 
 By now I'm pretty pissed going into some pretty sub par dungeons, and one with a time limit. No 
 thank you Nintendo, no thank you.
  
  I'm going to suggest you get this for your DS anyways, theres some good parts amongst all the muck, 
 although right now with FFXII RW out and some other DQ and FF games you could spend your money 
 a little wiser. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: supersmashllama
Rating: 9
Date: May 3, 2008 11:52 pm PT
Review:  A tomboyish pirate lady, a courageous hero, and their crew of strong sailors guide their ship along 
 through the waves of a massive sea, sharing mighty tales of how the hero rescued the pirate woman 
 and the world from the ultimate darkness, when suddenly a ship enshrouded in mist appears. The 
 lady jumps across to raid this ship for treasure, but is captured. The hero tries to reach out, 
 but falls into the ocean! It almost sounds like a movie pitch, but no, it is the basis of Phantom 
 Hourglass' plot. Yes, Tetra has been captured by the Ghost Ship and Link tries to save her, but 
 falls into the ocean. He is rescued by an old man and a sparkly white fairy. Of course it turns 
 out that a great evil captured Tetra and the world will collapse if she isn't saved. So Link and 
 the fairy, Ciela, companioned with the coward of a pirate, Linebeck, set out to stop this evil, 
 otherwise known as Bellum (the Latin word for "war") . Along the way, they face fairly simple puzzles, 
 a strange gay man who calls himself "The Man of Smiles", a dead king who can still send postcards, 
 and a dungeon that becomes very repetitive, even on the verge of annoying the 4th time you go through 
 it. However they also get a chance to switch characters so we can FINALLY play as a Goron! But 
 don't worry, that isn't the only upside. In this game, the whole sea is uncharted to begin with 
 until you go inside the Temple of the Ocean King to get the first sea chart. Then the second. And 
 the third. And the fourth (if you can't tell this was said annoying temple) . There are only four 
 plotted sea charts, so the sea isn't exactly vast. But it's not exactly small. I'm pretty sure 
 there are 4 uncharted islands. And we can still use cyclones to fly around! And the touchscreen 
 controls are fairly simple. And the fact that we can write on the map is very helpful, in fact, 
 almost necessary in one part of the game. Of course it also keeps the humor of Wind Waker while 
 incorporating some  
 moments. So all together, even though the game is pretty easy, the dungeons are still fun and... 
 well, it is a Legend of Zelda game, and that in itself, makes it awesome. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: The-Pov
Rating: 9.5
Date: Apr 29, 2008 5:35 am PT
Review:  When you start playing Phantom Hourglass, the first thing that you notice is the snappy control 
 scheme. I mean you can't help but be sceptical when they say that ALL of the controling is done 
 with the stylus. However, it works extremly well and just feels like the natural way to control 
 link. The stylus controls make it effortless to wander around, which is good considering the amout 
 you do. The only problem with this controling is when you are in battle. Although attacking works 
 very well, the same can't be said for defence. For instance when you need to attack a foe from 
 behind, or wish to move back in order to avoid a defistateing blow, you have no choice but to turn 
 your back on him and run, rather than being able to jump back or to the side whilst stull facing 
 him, as you could in previous games. This makes you unnesisarily suseptable to attack.
  
  The legend of Zelda series is known for its dungens and puzzles that make players think outside 
 of the box. However, the makers of Zelda take this to a new level with Phantom Hourglass. Not wanting 
 to ruin the experiance by giving the secrets away, but there is one puzzle involving a map on a 
 wall, that isn't beaten by using standard controls. The solution was unbelievably abserd, whilst 
 making so much sense I couldn't believe I had to look the answer up!! 
  
  The main annoyance is the Temple of the Ocean King, which you have to go back to again and again, 
 although the new items that you collect, helping you to get through faster each time make it slightly 
 more bearable. And as always items and gagets that you collect in various dungeons add a lot of 
 excitement and intresting twists to the puzzles.
  
  The sailing aspects are also quite fun, although can get quite frustrating when you are ambused 
 by pirates nearly every other voyage, and you have the choice between running and having your ship 
 blow to the bottom of Grandpa's locker, or stop, have your ship only slightly smashed up, and let 
 them board.
  
  The music in the game is very lighthearted for most of the time, and carries the games atmosphere 
 nicely. The sound effects are about par for the series, but still work just as good as always.
 
  
  The thing that blew me away most in the game was the awesome boss battles. I'm not usually one 
 for raving about bosses, but the ones in Phantom Hourglass were always interesting and challenging, 
 although not too hard that you wanted to pull your hair out. The most interesting one was an invisible 
 monster, whose point of view you could see in the top screen, allowing you to fire an arrow into 
 his eye before smashing him with your sword.
  
  Overall I found PH to be a highly addictive game, that did the series proud. A must buy for all 
 DS owners. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Its_a_me_luigi
Rating: 7.5
Date: Apr 25, 2008 2:31 pm PT
Review:  Wow, I've been waiting for this game for a year now, and now that's it's out, I wish it never existed.
 
  
  Gameplay:
  The Gameplay is decent but REPETITIVE! There's this one dungeon that you have to go to again and 
 again and again! It's so annoying! Also, the sailing is so much worse than Wind Waker, which was 
 an amazing game. The controls are sometimes unresponsive, and there aren't very many items.
  Gameplay=7
  
  Sound:
  This is classic Zelda, no voice acting and terrific music. Wait. What's 
 that? there isn't awesome music? Seriously, Zelda has the greatest music in a game.
  Sound=10
  
  Presentation:
  Not very many items, dungeons, etc.
  SHORT
  Presentation=5
 
  
  Graphics:
  These actually save the game from getting a 5, these are beautiful! The environment is fully 3D 
 and it is an open world! These are some of the best graphics available for the DS
  Graphics=10
  
  Value:
  Not worth 35$, as you're only gonna play it for 10 hours. Maybe if 
 you find it for 25$, but it's overpriced.
  
  Overall: This has the classic Zelda formula, but it doesn't feel right. It's always going to stand 
 out as the one Zelda game that didn't live up to the name (other than the CD-i Zeldas)
  Overall=7.5 
::::::

::::::
UserName: chilledcactus
Rating: 3
Date: Apr 24, 2008 9:53 pm PT
Review:  The Legend of Zelda: The Phentom Hourglass. Maybe its just me, but this game is terrible. Link 
 isn't supposed to look like a construction paper person built on a bad program on a computer by 
 an unskilled artist. And guess what, so does the rest of the game. It might just be me, but I really 
 dont like that style of artwork for link or the zelda franchise. zelda always seemed like a serious 
 type game. Kinda like a more serious mature form of mario games. Not that mario games are bad, 
 they are just more of a basic story, have fun and win game, while zelda games are more deep storywise, 
 graphics wise, and combat wise. Or, mario is a game for simple fast paced fun, while zelda is more 
 of a slower more rewarding game with underlying messages. Right from the beginning everyone said 
 this game would be amazing. I hoped they would be right and this wopuldn't be an insult to the 
 series i recently learned to love with twilight princess. But I was greatly dissapointed. The whole 
 plot is revealed from the beginning leaving nothing to figure out plotwise except the specifics. 
 For twilight princess you dont know the plot at the beginning and more gets revealed to you as 
 you play through and accomplish things. For Phantom hourglass, the graphics can never get serious 
 enough to really impress a point upon you when something truly dark happens. Since those moments 
 aren't very good, the good moments when you are successfull aren't as meaningful. The game in general 
 I have no problems with because i just couldn't get myself to play it enough to find any real problems 
 with the actual game. This game could be worked on and developed into a new series that isn't zelda 
 or mario and it would be a great game probably. Currently though, Phantom Hourglass is just a terrible 
 hybrid between Mario's nonstop fun, and Zelda's truly serious rewarding gameplay. Mario and Zeldo 
 don't mix (except in ssbb) . This game should be taken by nintendo and developed into its own franchise 
 seperate from both mario and zelda. If nintendo did that, a new big franchise could be developed, 
 this game could be forgotten, and new games that are amazing could be developed. Phantom Hourglass 
 could have been something great if it was part of its own series or if it had a better storyline 
 and real zeldo graphics (twilight princess) . Unfortunately, that didn't happen and people thought 
 the game that very well could have been amazing was amazing because they had convinced themselves 
 it would be. People didn't see what it could have been. They didn't see how great it would have 
 been. They said that zelda is an amzing franchise and so this game must be amazing. People didn't 
 bother realizing what this game could have been. Overall this game gets a low score from me. Because 
 It Was Such A Waste Of A Possible Great Game That I Couldn't Even Finish It.3.0Worse then eragon. I'm 
 sorry, but a wasted game is worse then a bad game. It only got that high because, although presented 
 terribly, the story was good. And the music was alright. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MGshade
Rating: 9.5
Date: Apr 23, 2008 3:53 pm PT
Review:  The Legend of Zelda is one of Nintendo's best game fanchises. Definetly the best adventure games 
 you can find across any platform and, in recent years, have gone into new terretories with new 
 innovative controls. Twilight Princess introduced Zelda to Wii motion control, and Phantom Hourglass 
 introduces you to touch control.
  
  Phantom Hourglass picks up exactly where The Wind Waker left off. You're sailing with Tetra through 
 the seas. After a breif recap of the last game, you find of Tetra's intentions. She wants to find 
 the feared Ghost Ship and expose it for the fake it is. After a serious of strange events, all 
 rendered in some of the best graphics on the DS, Link ends up in the ocean on a strange island. 
 He is then woken by a small fairy named Ceila who encompanies you through the entire adventure. The 
 story isn't the deepest, but it'll keep you interested.
  
  The newest thing in Phantom Hourglass (obviously) is the touch control, which has a slight learning 
 curve to it. You touch an area to move in that direction. You tap any enemy to have Link leap at 
 it and you draw small slashes on the screen to attack. Draw a circle around Link and he does a 
 spin attack and draw little circles at the edge of the screen to make him roll. It takes getting 
 used to, but it works in the end.
  
  The new items (well, mostly your old ones that you "lost" in the ocean) all take advantage of the 
 touch screen. You draw the path your boomerang, you touch grappling hook targets and more. Some 
 are more innovative than others, but it still works out great.
  
  The dungeons in PH are innovative at heart, but very common and boring on the outside. You can 
 stick by the "defeat every enemy, activate every switch and push every block" to get through a 
 majority of the game, although there are different puzzles some may never have seen before.
  
  The main dungeon, the Temple of the Ocean King, is one of the best dungeons in the game, but 
 it is very tedious. The concept is simple. There are many floors in the dungeon and you have to 
 return many times to find maps and charts to the game's dungeons. Sound simple? Well, then the 
 fact that the temple sucks the life out of you makes everything more difficult.
  
  That's why we have the Phantom Hourglass, a device that stops the temple from sucking any life 
 from you for a certain amount of time. THEN, there are the different puzzles on each floor to be 
 solved. Lastly, there are the Phantoms, unbeatble monsters that stalk you when they see you and 
 try to attack you. If one gets you, you lose thirty seconds off your time and you're sent back 
 to the start of the floor.
  
  This is a great concept and can be very frustrating at times. The worst part? Everytime you leave, 
 you have to do it all over again. Midway through you get a half way point, but it can still be 
 very tedious.
  
  The overworld in this game is very big. With many different islands to explore (some of which you 
 must discover on your own) , treasures to unearth and enemies to shoot, it's very fun. Instead of 
 piloting your boat, you draw it's course on your map. There were a few problems, but nothing that 
 can'y be over looked.
  
  Overall, Phantom Hourglass is a great game. With an innovative multiplayer, a great overworld, 
 new controls, a customizable ship and more, Phantom Hourglass is one of the best DS games available. 
 If only it was a bit harder.... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gotomah
Rating: 4
Date: Apr 21, 2008 5:34 am PT
Review:  The less fun adventure in the life of Link. I know they sort of changed people on the design team 
 but please make sure it delivers what it used to do.
  
  Could someone explain me why do I have to repeat completed levels in order to advance in the game? 
 That's not exploration. That's a weird way to engage baby players to realize that there were more 
 things than they could access before. They were worthless things, anyway.
  
  Could someone don't switch off the console after loosing in online mode? Is the rank all that counts? 
 Anyone for some fun play? C'mon
  I still haven't been able to play this weird online mode without thinking about ripping off some 
 kid's guts off. This is not a violent game, why do you allow people to become enraged by allowing 
 that?
  
  Conclusion: the audience of this game has an average age of 10 years old. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: icehawk022
Rating: 9.5
Date: Apr 20, 2008 5:48 pm PT
Review:  Its my first review so don't get on my back if I miss a few important points.
  
  Visuals: Perfect, everything looks amazing. People and monsters are quite detailed, the environment 
 is quite clean and fresh looking espically the water (which is good, since you see a lot of it)
 
  
  Gameplay: Addicting. I was skeptical wtih Phantom Hourglass being the first Zelda game for the 
 DS, but they implemented the touch screen controls with great care and precision. Phantom Hourglass 
 was a little on the easy side for a Zelda veteran like myself. The puzzles and dungeons were well 
 thought out and interesting. The boss fights were fun and original, but again, a little on the 
 easy side.
  
  Sound: Good but nothing really stood out to me.
  
  Multiplayer: Fun in short bursts. I had more fun playing with my brothers over DS Download. The 
 WiFi is, like I said earlier, fun in short bursts. I got too frustrated with disconnectors after 
 a few hours so I stopped playing and haven't played since.
  
  Replay Value: There isn't much of an incentive to go back and play through again, but I assume 
 it would still be fun.
  
  Overall: Great game, and one that any DS owner should have. It was a blast while it lasted, a great 
 addition to the Zelda collection
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: killip
Rating: 9.5
Date: Apr 20, 2008 10:52 am PT
Review:  Zelda games have always been an important part of gaming history. Zelda was the first one of the 
 first games to sucessfully convert from 2D gaming to 3D and threwout its 20 year career pushed 
 gaming even further while still keeping to the same goals it always has. Now with the newest installment 
 Phantom hourglass it has disappointed. It looks just like the crisp looking wind waker and pushes 
 the DS handheld to the limit both with gameplay and graphics. The storyline is set right after 
 where the wind waker finished.
  
  Graphics: I think its fair to say this is prob one of the if not the best looking game to date 
 on the DS bright colourful and i wouldnt go far of saying looking like its gamecube brother.
  
  Sound: Amazing sound still no voice acting (in my opinion a good thing) and the SFX are great.
 
  
  Gameplay: State of the art think of everything you can do with the DS and then think of the stuff 
 you thought the DS could never do. Some of the puzzles on this game make the history books. The 
 game is also freeroam-esc as with all zelda games you can travel threw 4 large sections of sea 
 maps and even find uncharted islands. The general gameplay (find 3 parts to so and so etc) remains 
 the same .
  
  **** Well they only thing that stops this game from its perfect score is the damn phantom temple. 
 Its sheer hell to get threw and you begin to dislike the game if you get stuck on it. Its a shame 
 because if they'd worked on a slighty diffrent formula to it, it could of brought this game even 
 further to a complete score. Its also a tad to short.
  
  Overall: If you have a DS you MUST buy this game it is an essential beyond anything. Its fun its 
 got humour to it. it looks and sounds great but most importanly it has the most unique puzzles 
 and gameplay seen in a game to date. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: chakkerz
Rating: 7
Date: Apr 17, 2008 4:34 am PT
Review:  I'll keep this short:
  1) Controls work surprisingly well, but are not terrific;
  2) Graphics, sounds and everything production value wise is awesome;
  3) By and large the game 
 is terrific;
  4) Gets boring and frustrating rather quickly, even though there is plenty of variety, there will 
 be puzzles / dungeons that are ... odd ... thus hard, thus you fail, thus you keep having to do 
 them over and over (this doesn't happen until about half way through) .
  5) This discouraged me to the point of not caring anymore, and i gave up.
  
  6) At this stage 
 i'm playing Final Fantasy Crystal Chronicles instead. It has better (non touch screen focused) 
 controls, is overall more simplistic, and doesn't look quite as good, but so far is nowhere near 
 as frustrating.
  
  7) The touchscreen controls work surprisingly well (don't let the nay sayers get you down, the 
 controls are decent) ... mostly 
::::::

::::::
UserName: blankshore
Rating: 9.5
Date: Apr 16, 2008 1:57 pm PT
Review:  This is the best game for the ds. Period. I have never had more fun playing a game on the ds then 
 when I'm playing this. It takes full use of all the ds' features, (touch screen, mic, etc.) and 
 graphically no game on the ds looks better. The biggest new feature- besides touch screen controls- 
 is the note taking system. Tired of forgetting where the heck that locked door is? Or where you 
 saw that treasure chest you couldn't get to? Well put those days behind you because with the new 
 note-taking feature you will never get lost again. Pressing down on the control pad will bring 
 down the map of the dungeon you are in (available from when you walk in the door) and using your 
 stylus you can write down any info you need. This leads to some interesting puzzles involving marking 
 places on a map, and connecting them to reveal treasure, and the like.
  The game also supports wifi multiplayer which is very fun.
  
  The only down side is there isn't 
 a whole lot to do after you beat the game.
  All in all this is a top three zelda game shoo-in, and is a must have for any ds owner. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bwlchck
Rating: 9.5
Date: Apr 14, 2008 4:24 pm PT
Review:  For all of you how are considering buying this game I will rate it into 3 catagories Visual Gameplay 
 and overall. 
  
  Visual 8
  
  This game's graphics are about the same as the gamecube. For the ds they are pretty good however 
 i have seen much better. Small things jump out at you that could use some work and others are amazingly 
 good.
  
  Gameplay 10
  
  This is were the game really shines. Nitendo did a great job on making the ds really apart of this 
 game. Using your stylist a ton and making you feel like the game was disigned for the systum not 
 a cheap remake of the ever so popular Zelda games. My favorite feature was the writing of the map 
 itself. It really did help me not forget little things i did on other Zelda games.
  
  
  Overall 9.5
  
  This game is a great game. However it will get anoying ever now and then and 
 thier are parts that make you want to crush the game over and over again. And then thier are time 
 were the game cannot leave your own hands without you screaming out in agony. If you were a Zelda 
 fan to begin with this is a must have. If not it is still a great action adventure game but thier 
 will be little jokes in thier that only a Zelda fan can pick up on just so you know. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: eeveefan93
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 13, 2008 5:40 pm PT
Review:  This Is A Zelda Game For The DS With The Good Old Toon Link! And This Game Is About A Temple That 
 You Have To Come Back To When You Beat A Doungon! You Can Costomize Your Ship! This Game Is Soposed 
 To Be A Sequel To Wind Waker! THERE LYING!!! If This Game Was A Sequil To Wind Waker, It Would 
 Be Relesed After Wind Waker! Well You Travel In The Sea! And You Can Play With Anyone Even People 
 Who Has A Ds But Dosen't Have Phantom Hourglass! But You Can't Play With People Who Dosen't have 
 A DS! But You Can Trade Ship Parts And Worthless Treashers! The Multiplayers Are Fun!
  
  What I Like About This Game: Costomizing Ships, Fun Muliplayers, It's Wi-Fi Compatable, YAY TOON 
 LINK, And Great Sound Tracks!
  
  What I Dislike About This Game: Linebeck, Boy I Can't Stand Him!
  
  So This Zelda Game Is Great 
 Exept For Abysmal Linebeck! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jman_55
Rating: 6.5
Date: Apr 13, 2008 1:11 pm PT
Review:  this game is... well to me i found it easy
  the boss's not a challenge
  and the puzzles a sinch
  ive been playing legend of zelda for a wile now and this one wasnt that 
 great to me
  the graphics were ok for the DS but the long boat rides the long and annoying text every 5 minuets 
 from the new navi character
  
  the fun thing is that you can find new islands
  pretty good battle with enemys
  
  to me this wasnt a ggreat zelda game but id rather play major 
 console zelda games
  
  dont let this one persons reveiw to stop you rfom buying this game because the wifi is fun
  
 
  and the treasure hunts are fun and so is the fshing so those are also good reasons to buy it
 
  
  so i hope you will like this game if you buy it but first i sugest you rent it then if you like 
 it buy it because i assure you the wifi can be a challenge with other players 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Cradleofbodom
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 11, 2008 11:29 pm PT
Review:  I didn't know if I should get this game at first, but boy, I'm glad I did. The game is really adictive, 
 and I love how you can use the touchscreen for everything in the game. The graphics are ok, not 
 the best for DS, but good. The gameplay is simpily amazing, you walk, attack, dig, draw path for 
 boomerang, chuck bombs, draw teleport symbols, blow out candles, dust off map, and more just with 
 the touchscreen, you never have to use the buttons on the ds. The game really uses everything the 
 hds has to offer, I was suprised that you have to yell into the mic for the one part. The puzzles 
 are very entertaining, some are a bit to easy, but they almost all are enjoyable. The storys a 
 bit cheesy, like most zelda games, seems aimed for a younger range, but it's ok. I dont really 
 care for the online play, its not really gripping like metroid or mortal kombat ds, but its ok 
 I guess. Good game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: STRANGER_11
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 9, 2008 8:56 pm PT
Review:  This game has pasted what the DS has done before in all it's history. The Game makes great use 
 of the Stylus, it has made ever other DS games controls look silly, and why wasn't this invented 
 before?! When I First picked up the game and saw that you could only control Link with the Stylus 
 I said "Why Can't I Use The D-Pad?" Well I was Proven very wrong, because after a few minutes I 
 realized that these controls are the BEST ever made! Like I have just stated the controls are THE 
 BEST! they really are like nothing I've ever seen and they are all I want to use from now on. Well 
 if you want to know the story is very good, and has lots of funny moments. The levels are very 
 fun, and there are lots of hard challenges in it too. Well all in all the game is very good and 
 I would say to any one who has a DS to go and buy it right away, because if you don't have it your 
 missing out on a very good adventure. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Wima5ter-134
Rating: 8
Date: May 20, 2008 5:09 pm PT
Review:  Phantom Hourglass.... ah where to begin...
  the good:
  great controls
  good story/characters
  quirky dialogue
  great boss fights
  good collectibles
  OUTSTANDING 
 puzzles
  
  the bad:
  easy
  dungeon that you have to go back to again and again and again
  small variety of weapons
  
 
  Phantom Hourglass is like a rare stone. You don't find them often, but when you do, you are really 
 happy about it. 
  
  GAMEPLAY: 9/10
  The game plays fairly like the other Zelda games, but most like the wind waker. You find yourself 
 again as Link traveling the seas with Tetra in search of the mysterious Ghost Ship. When they find 
 it, Tetra jumps aboard and becomes prisoner of the ship. Link is then knocked off the boat and 
 washed up on an island. There he meets Ciela, a fairy that has lost her memory, and you set off 
 to save Tetra. The gameplay is the same, you travel around and sail around to islands and various 
 temples to unlock powers to help you in your ultimate quest. It is a bit on the easy side though. 
 One mechanic I did not like was the Phantom Hourglass itself and the Temple of the Ocean King. 
 The temple drained the life out of you and you could only stay alive if you had the phantom hourglass, 
 which drained your life if it ran out of sand at the top. To make matters worse, there are knights 
 called "phantoms" that are in the temple that cannot be killed until the very end of the game. 
 If they touch you you die and you lose 30 sec. on your hourglass. To make it EVEN worse, you have 
 to go back multiple times and go through floors you have already gone through. This brings the 
 game down. I wonder who thought of the idea of a life-sucking temple you have to back to over and 
 over again!! Also for you collectible people, PH has a boat collectible thing where you can collect 
 different parts for sets of a boat. It is really fun and keeps you wanting to get new parts
  
  CONTROLS 10/10
  All of the controls are mapped to the touch screen, which easily could have 
 turned into a disaster, but they pulled it off very well. You touch in the direction to walk (and 
 run) and make lines along your enemy to slash, With a few button controls for pulling up maps. 
 For the boomerang, you draw the path it will take and it will go unless disturbed. For the bow, 
 you point in the direction you want to shoot. It is a great use of the touch screen and works out 
 very well.
  
  GRAPHICS 9/10
  The graphics are great coming from the DS. It is top notch except for certain areas where the screen 
 looks extra pixelated and less sharp. But there are few of those times so all is well.
  
  ATMOSPHERE 9/10
  The atmosphere and characters are great. There is a good amount of characters 
 to talk to in the game and much of that text is funny and quirky, adding to the enjoyablility level. 
 The expressions are also great, in one scene, Linebeck (your captain) shakes link silly and then 
 gives him something, so the classic lifting of the item in your palm occurs but his eyes are swirling 
 and he's hobbling about. In another, when you get a negative rupee, the music tones down and his 
 face turns to a sad suprised look. It really adds to the game.
  
  PUZZLES 9/10
  THE PUZZLES ARE AMAZING!!!!! They make total use of all of your items and controls. In one, you 
 make a rope going through two pipes and then walk into it and use it as a boomerang. In another, 
 you throw a bomb in between two rows of bomb plants and they detonate the plants hitting two switches 
 at the same time. They are very creative and don't lack at all.
  
  Overall this game is Great. A must buy for DS owners and even more for DS owning Zelda fans.
 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Hikaru_Isamu
Rating: 8
Date: Apr 5, 2008 8:55 pm PT
Review:  This game is fun, and kept me immersed in the story the whole way through. It was quirky and cartoonesque 
 enough to be comical, but still serious enough to have an actual story line.
  
  The game controls surprisingly well. As a DS owner, I absolutely hate the touch screen, and I almost 
 refused to buy this game when I learned it was almost 100% touch screen controlled. However, you 
 rarely encounter any problems. A hand cramp at most from holding the DS for a few hours.
  
  I have one major complaint though, that stops this game from being nearly perfect: The Temple of 
 the Ocean King.
  
  I have no idea who came up with this concept. Who at the brainstorming party threw in, "Hey, let's 
 make a temple where you have a time limit, and you have to go through it multiple times, and do 
 the same exact tasks each time."
  
  The final part of the game more than makes up for it, but the Temple of the Ocean King really subtracts 
 from the game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Legend-of-Evil
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 2, 2008 2:49 am PT
Review:  Watching the footage released before the 11th of October '07, I was ecstatic to get my game going 
 with Phantom Hourglass, since I got many hours of pure bliss out of both it's prequel, Wind Waker, 
 and the most recent Zelda game, Twilight Princess. I bought it the day it came out, the day after 
 my 17th birthday, and sat down, blasting through the first few hours with a huge grin on my face. 
 Though something wore thin.
  
  The graphics have since been downgraded from Wind Waker (obviously, I mean it is a handheld game) , 
 but once again, any continuous play of this cel-shaded blur of a game, and you are bound to make 
 yourself violently ill, if not, just ill. However, regardless the beautiful animation put to every 
 aspect of this game will blow your mind, nostalgia of the Wind Waker era popping up a good deal. 
 Bright outfits, huge eyes and expressions not of this world? That's Phantom Hourglass for you. 
 
  
  The sound is the same as you will remember from Wind Waker, similar tunes popping in here and there, 
 but the biggest similarity to any new-age Zelda game is the amazingly orchestrated soundtrack put 
 to all the different settings. Sure, the consistently happy music can get on your nerves when you 
 are at a difficult or irritating point of the game, but the work put into the audio quality and 
 composition in this game deserves more credit then can be truly given to a handheld game.
  
  Now the game-play is the big difference in this Zelda installment. Most of the action in the 
 game happens on small islands situated at random points of the ocean, which is split up into bearings, 
 being four seperate sea charts (NW, SW, NE, SE) . On top of this, a classic item has been added 
 back into the mix, the shovel! What a flashback. You cruise around in a ship owned by a mysterious 
 treasure "hunter" named Linebeck. Through the game you can collect treasures (money makers) and 
 ship parts, which you can deck your ship out in, with their being many sets, such as the Demon 
 Ship, the Tropical Ship, the Mermaid Ship, and a lot more then that. There are even means of repetitive 
 methods of obtaining as many ship parts as you could want, without spending a single Rupee (hint: 
 have you noticed you can change the date on the DS?) . You can also unlock fun things to do like 
 fishing and countless mini-games dotted about the sea, making this game the type of game you can 
 play for hours on end (if the animation doesn't make you ill before you get bored) . 
  
  Overall, damn does this game have flare and a half added to nearly every nook and cranny of the 
 wide-spread ocean or what? If you are a fan of Zelda games, this is a MUST-BUY! Any Zelda nut will 
 be gasping at the astonishing ways Nintendo have harnessed the mighty abilities of the DS. If you 
 don't like Zelda, buy it, because it is a whole heap of fun, which differs from the rest of the 
 series in huge leaps at a time, but somehow manages to keep its beauty that the Zelda installments 
 have always kept since the beginning.
  
  Graphics - 8/10
  Sound - 9/10
  Gameplay - 9/10
  Overall - 9/10
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: insomniac_dog
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 28, 2008 4:01 pm PT
Review:  After massive successes, Phantom Hourglass had a lot to live up to. Ocarina of Time, Wind Waker 
 and A Link to the Past all were incredible games, one of them gaining the prestigious Gamespot 
 10/10. Shrinking such an incredible and revered series down to the DS would be a feat, however 
 Nintendo has surpassed all expectations and created arguably the best DS game on the market. Ladies 
 and Gentlemen, this is Phantom Hourglass.
  
  A direct sequel to the Wind Waker, the game begins with Link and Tetra happily exploring the seas 
 when they encounter the mysterious Ghost Ship. Tetra leaps onto the unknown vessel to investigate, 
 however the ship sails away with Tetra on board. Link falls into the ocean and awakens on an island 
 in the middle of the ocean. There he meets Ceila, a fairy who has lost her memory. Together, they 
 set out to rescue Tetra, regain Ceila's memory, find the Ocean King and eventually to save the 
 world from Bellum, the evil Phantom King.
  
  The story is both engaging and clever, and goes to show that handheld games can keep you on the 
 edge of your seat (even if you're on the train...) . Along the journey, Link meets the sailor Linebeck. 
 With the trio established, Link across the ocean to continue his quest. This is where the ship-sailing 
 mechanism comes in. The controls are effortlessly simple, and a joy to use. Navigation is easy 
 and there are tons of things to do in the deep blue: nab treasure; fish; teleport; battle enemies; 
 and shop for goodies. You'll love ship-sailing.
  
  However, the main gameplay is on land. Using the stylus you can move, attack, spin, roll and use 
 weapons easily. Throughout the game, you'll pick up new items, all of them controlled by touch 
 controls. The controls are magnificently implemented. In the game, there are countless amount of 
 things done by the stylus, and its simply incredible. I never used the buttons once in the game, 
 and I'm glad I didn't. It's just fantastic.
  
  Graphics are some of the best on the DS. Water physics are solid, and all of the bells and whistles 
 are gorgeous to look. Expressions on characters' faces are well done and animation is superb. There's 
 alos some great humour in the game, something an Asian-made game is often hard to produce (meaning, 
 Americans like American humour) . 
  
  Inside the dungeons, you'll use your thoroughly enjoyable tools and gadgets to solve the puzzles. 
 These puzzles are the highlights of the game, and they're all so very ingenious and clever. One 
 memorable puzzle must be solved by closing and then opening the actual DS. The main dungeon, entitled 
 the "Temple of the Ocean King" requires you to use the power of the Phantom Hourglass. These sections 
 are time-limited, however standing in areas of protection time can be stopped. The enemies in this 
 Temple are indestructable at first, but you'll eventually be able to kill them. 
  
  This brings me to the boss battles. Only Shadow of the Colossus has better boss battles. Honestly. 
 All of the battles are highly original and unique, and they're all hugely entertaining. Some you 
 battle on land, some at sea. I loved them to death... literally. The game is also quite challenging. 
 Some puzzles will stump you, and certain sections will need a few retries.
  
  Sound is all top-notch. Music is repetitive but catchy, especially the well-known Legend of Zelda 
 main theme. Ambient noise is spot-on, and though there's no voice-acting, the sound effects will 
 supply the dialogue, in a way. The length of the game is something to be astonished by. It'll take 
 you a good 15-20 hours to complete the main quest, however there's a monumental amount of odd-jobs 
 and minigames to complete. Uncharted islands to explore, treasure to be discovered and people to 
 help. You can even levle up your powers.
  
  There are some small niggles, mainly regarding the Ocean King temple. Here, you'll revisit the 
 same places over and over again, completing the same puzzles the last time you were there. Sure, 
 there's a half-way point checkpoint, however when you ie you get taken all the way back to the 
 start, and every time you re-do the temple you must get past the same levels you already got past. 
 It's very frustrating. Also, puzzles sometimes get too frustrating, and conversations can sometimes 
 go for too long.
  
  However, apart from the annoying Temple of the Ocean King, the game is nigh on a masterpiece. The 
 controls and innovative, the story is engaging, th graphics are wonderful and gameplay is some 
 of the best ever seen in the Zelda franchise. Value for money is also there, just because the game 
 is very long, and almost unlimited amount of side-quests and things to do. If you have a DS, you 
 must buy Phantom Hourglass. Now. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Leakybubbles
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 26, 2008 9:47 pm PT
Review:  ~The Legend of Zelda: Phantom Hourglass for the Nintendo DS~
  
  CONTROLS:
  PROS:
  The controls of the game are very unique and it works really well with the stylus. They get you 
 more into the game.
  CONS:
  They can at sometimes be frustrating to determine which move you want to use. Sometimes you do 
 a slash and it does something else entirely.
  
  GAMEPLAY:
  PROS:
  The game works pretty well. It keeps the same formula of other Legend of Zelda games and keeps 
 the magic with it.
  CONS:
  Can be slow at times. Not loading times, just the fact that you gotta walk everywhere.
  
  GRAPHICS:
 
  PROS:
  Shell-shaded goodness. The houses, the characters, all good.
  CONS:
  There really isn't any.
  
  The game is fun, chalenging and has great temples and controls. 
 Great graphics and weapons. It's The Legend of Zelda portable with touch screen controls. You have 
 to test it out for yourself. Its just plain fun. Unique. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Octochomp_5
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 26, 2008 1:18 pm PT
Review:  When I first bought this game, I was skeptical because it was the first time I played a Zelda game. 
 I was amazed. Truly.
  
  I never knew how good a Zelda game was until last Christmas when I got it. It's challenging but 
 fun, sweet but sometimes sour. The sweet stuff is that it have a good story, it has as much action 
 as much as they have puzzle solving, you get more weapons and upgrade them using the spirits of 
 the Triforce (Wisdom, Courage and Power) as you progress further into the game. You can only upgrade 
 your sword though but you can wield fire, confuse (not very intelligent) enemies if you run into 
 them and shoot shock waves. The sour stuff is Linebeck (who does literally nothing but act as transportation) , 
 the difficulty of the puzzles some times and to a lesser extent, the multiplayer mode (enjoyable, 
 but they could have done so much more with it.) Of course, there are more stuff to do than beat 
 up bad guys and save Tetra ( she's really Zelda ) . For those who like to ride on their ship in 
 style, there's a place where you can customize their ship. For those, who like to search for treasure, 
 after you purchase your Salvage Arm you can salvage treasure where the red Xs are located on your 
 sea chart. For those to like to power up their sword go to spirit Island (it's a hidden island 
 so keep your eyes out or listen to that boingy thingy on Molida Island) for those who like to fish, 
 go to the old man on Bannan Island and for those who like collecting rupees go to Spirit Island 
 (try not to get banned) . Another must get for the DS. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cheesemonkey199
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 25, 2008 5:30 am PT
Review:  that title really does sum up this game, it's full of charm, dungeons and classic Zelda gameplay, 
 but with a new twist.
  
  I haven't been playing Zelda games for long, I think I started with Wind Waker and with Phantom 
 Hourglass and it's "amazing new touch controls", I thought that it would be really difficult having 
 got used to the game pad way of playing it but my unease was put to rest as soon as I played the 
 game.
  
  The touch controls are fantastic! they really did get it spot on and I don't think a Zelda game 
 has ever been this easily accessible before. Almost every action from the console games has been 
 somehow mapped onto the touch screen of the DS and it just works so well.
  
  As well as the brilliant new controls there is new dungeons to explore, new bosses to beat, new 
 secrets to find as well as all the old things that have been retained from previous installments 
 like the weapons, most of which are now easier to use. Also the sailing returns having been seen 
 earlier in Wind Waker except it is so much easier now, you draw a route to where you want to go 
 on the map and hit GO, the ship follows the route automatically letting you fire the cannons and 
 do other things like jump over obstacles.
  
  The graphics are easily some of the best on the DS and the sound is great too, the atmosphere and 
 characters are superb and everything just feels so perfect in this stunning game. I still haven't 
 finished it yet but so far the story is gripping and makes you want to keep playing. I can't seem 
 to find many flaws either in the technical aspect or any other section of the game too.
  
  Like I said before the best DS game of 2007 and if you have a DS then you should already have this 
 game, if not then go and buy it! also have any interest at all in the Zelda franchise or are just 
 looking for a great new adventure game, this is the one for you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: vickersfan
Rating: 8
Date: Mar 24, 2008 10:49 pm PT
Review:  Phantom Hourglass is easy on the eyes and even easier on the thumbs with gameplay being centered 
 around the stylus and touchscreen. The game plays as a classic top-down SNES or GB zelda game full 
 of color. It features familiar characters, well rounded cell-shaded graphics and a good storyline. 
 The game is meant to be a direct sequel to the Wind Waker but also a throw-back to Link's Awakening. 
 The game's controls are a bit akward at first but in time become relitavely smooth. However the 
 games simplistic boss battles, lack of enemy variation, and constant backtracking makes gameplay 
 quickly become tedious and repetitive. The addition of a wifi compatible multiplayer mode is a 
 nice touch considering the fact that the game has virtually no replay value. Despite its flaws 
 Phantom Hourglass manages to stay true to itself and the Wind Waker and is well worth the time 
 spent beating it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TheAcejoel99
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 23, 2008 4:22 pm PT
Review:  The game is great, the controls are great, the vusuals are amazing (if a little grainy) And very inventive. But 
 I'm sad they kept sailing and the temples are very well done..... except one of them.... the temple 
 of the ocean king, this temple will proably make you cry, for you repeat it again and again I think 
 you play though it 6 or 7 times if I remember correctly, each time you go a little deeper into the 
 temple and each time you get a sea chart. This is realy the games ONE BIG flaw.
  
  good: controls are oddly good.
  gameplay is fantastic.
  most of the temples are fantastic.
 
  puzzles are smart and witty.
  I like that the temples are shorter then normal, so you can finish them in one sitting pretty easily 
 and not have to play though a temple in multipl sittings.
  Mini games are fun, but there arn't meny.
  
  bad: sailing.
  The temple of the ocean king will 
 make you cry, or even cause you to stop playing the game.
  To few mini games.
  
  This game realy is a great game, and if you can stand the temple of the ocean king then you will 
 enjoy this title alot. There are tons of thinjgs to collect as well. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MeanPirate
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 23, 2008 4:30 am PT
Review:  This game uses all of the Nintendo DS's abilities to their full potential. I think many other adventure 
 games will follow in Phantom Hourglass's footsteps, forever changing games for the DS. This game 
 is easily my favorite for both console and portable games in the Zelda series. If you don't believe 
 me check the vital stats on the right, it's ranked 5 out of 1,639 games for the DS at the moment. 
 I highly suggest you pick up this game.
  
  Strengths: Amazing controls take no time to get the hang of.
  Plenty of story for a hand held 
 game.
  Graphics look great, Wind Waker style is not a favorite for everyone but it lends itself to the 
 game very nicely.
  Music is great as always.
  
  Weaknesses:
  Hourglass Temple can get repetitive.
  Travel at sea is slow
  Several puzzles are too simple.
 
  Stylus use can be less accurate while moving, making it less ideal for road trips. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mircea_calarasu
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 22, 2008 3:37 am PT
Review:  There is no way I could have been disappointed with the game. I was anticipating a real classic 
 for the DS system!! And here it is! I loved Wind Waker, it's probably my favorite of the series. 
 And so I'm ecstatic to have PH as a sequel. The plot is intriguing and the adventure is awesome, 
 with more pirate flair!
  
  The touch-screen controls aren't bad at all, it is simply that my hand cramps up after a few hours. 
 The stylus controls are very smooth & responsive, which surprised me. It's actually quite simple 
 once you get the handle of it. PH takes full advantage of the DS, and it's good to finally see 
 a game that uses all of it's features to the best of its abilities. It's a great example as to 
 how awesome the DS really is. The sound is crystal clear and excitingly reminiscent. The graphics 
 are absolutely excellent, despite the black outlines. I'd say it's very close to being the best 
 looking DS game out there, as of yet.
  
  The game, overall, is amazing. I recommend it to anyone who wants a good adventure RPG full of 
 cool puzzles, interesting plot details, character development, and new innovative controls. It's 
 an awesome addition to the pile of games for DS, and it's a top favorite of mine. It's well worth 
 the money, and if you have some extra cash, the Collectors Edition Game Guide is of great quality 
 with gilded pages, a snazzy bookmark and poster map. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dman712
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 19, 2008 4:36 pm PT
Review:  This game kick butt! I just want to grab it and squeeze it till it pops! It's the second cartoon 
 Zelda game and in my opinion the best. It has outstanding graphics for the DS. Also the controls 
 are spot on! But one bad thing is ALL actions are used on the touch screen. I give it a ten 10.0! This 
 game kick butt! I just want to grab it and squeeze it till it pops! It's the second cartoon Zelda 
 game and in my opinion the best. It has outstanding graphics for the DS. Also the controls are 
 spot on! But one bad thing is ALL actions are used on the touch screen. I give it a ten 10.0! This 
 game kick butt! I just want to grab it and squeeze it till it pops! It's the second cartoon Zelda 
 game and in my opinion the best. It has outstanding graphics for the DS. Also the controls are 
 spot on! But one bad thing is ALL actions are used on the touch screen. I give it a ten 10.0! This 
 game kick butt! I just want to grab it and squeeze it till it pops! It's the second cartoon Zelda 
 game and in my opinion the best. It has outstanding graphics for the DS. Also the controls are 
 spot on! But one bad thing is ALL actions are used on the touch screen. I give it a ten 10.0! This 
 game kick butt! I just want to grab it and squeeze it till it pops! It's the second cartoon Zelda 
 game and in my opinion the best. It has outstanding graphics for the DS. Also the controls are 
 spot on! But one bad thing is ALL actions are used on the touch screen. I give it a ten 10.0! This 
 game kick butt! I just want to grab it and squeeze it till it pops! It's the second cartoon Zelda 
 game and in my opinion the best. It has outstanding graphics for the DS. Also the controls are 
 spot on! But one bad thing is ALL actions are used on the touch screen. I give it a ten 10.0! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: CokaColaKid
Rating: 7
Date: Mar 19, 2008 5:42 am PT
Review:  It seemed to me that this game had a little bit of everything in it, capitalizing on all the DS 
 capabilities. But it still didnt have that epic feeling. I felt like I was playing a version of 
 pirates of the Caribbean, too generic. So I lent the game to a friend at work, he played it through, 
 then I asked him what he would rate it out of 10 he gave it a 6. I said Id give it at least a 7 
 because the boss fights were the best part of the game and over the top. If your looking for an 
 adventure game that will keep you busy for a while this might be for you. You can throw everything 
 and the kitchen sink into a game but if its not fun it doesnt make for a better game. Sometimes 
 it pays just to stick to the basic formula and build on that. As an adult Phantom hour glass felt 
 too child like for me. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SlorgieNel
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 18, 2008 8:37 am PT
Review:  As a fan of the Zelda franchise who had played and failed at almost every other Zelda game, I was 
 skeptical about buying this game, but I decided to do it anyways. I'm so, so glad I did because 
 it is -amazing-, plain and simple.
  
  When I started, I was disappointed about it being all touch-screen cause I had the urge to button-mash 
 monsters to death, but the touch screen system is actually ingenius! Between the boss battles, 
 dungeons and all those awesome tools like the grappling hook and hammer, it just feels like any 
 other method would have been... awkward! Not only that, but I felt like it had just the right amount 
 of difficulty. I followed a guide religiously because of my past failures, but I'm playing it again 
 solo and it's just so much fun! It's definately built to be clever, that's for sure.
  
  Not only that, but the characters and story are amazing. Link is adorable as ever, Ciela and Oshus 
 are great additions and then there is Linebeck, who is possibly the best character of all time. 
 The story also had moments (mostly Link-based) that just had me killing myself laughing XDD And 
 the ending is so great that I've played through it tons of times already!
  
  Bottom line, this game is definately one that any DS owner must check out, and for those who are 
 pondering buying a DS just for this game, you definately should. It has tons of replay value and 
 just overall awesomeness. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: RachetandClank
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 14, 2008 3:19 pm PT
Review:  The areas I will be reviewing are:
  
  presentation (visuals, audio)
  gameplay (controls, how you play)
  value (Is it fun?)
  
  ___________
  Presentation: The visuals 
 in this game are great. The new "toon" link looks better than ever, with many new and different 
 looking characters with him. It is one of the best looking games on the ds, and its cartoony style 
 fits the ds like a glove. The audio is awsome. With the always phenominal musical that we expect 
 from a zelda game, and the classic in-game melodies like the familiar "da da da da da!" you hear 
 when you acquire a new item, this games presentation is top notch. But I could go with less of 
 link "hiya!" every time he uses his sword. 
  _________
  Gameplay: The gameplay in this game uses all of the ds's many functions to their fullest abilities. 
 Between drawing symbols on doors and yelling into the mic to get another character's attention, 
 you will be itching to find out how to solve the next puzzel. The only controles in this game is 
 the touch screen, witch provides a challenge to veterans gamers and a new, fun way of playing video 
 games for beginners. This game defins the gameplay expected from the ds.
  _____
  Value: I have never had so much fun playing zelda, and this is definitly the best game i own for 
 my ds. With a captivating story and trickey puzzels, this game will make it hard for gamers to 
 stop playing. Although, some of the puzzels prove to be extremly hard to figure out, and you will 
 be doing a lot of back-traking to find more treasures. But if you like that kind of stuff, I recommend 
 this game to anyone up to the challenge.
  
  presentation: 10
  gameplay: 10
  value: 9.5
  overall: 9.5
  
  Recommended: Definitely! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: edpeterson
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 11, 2008 5:18 pm PT
Review:  This game is GREAT! Enough said.
  
  But this is a review so I guess I'll point out the stuff that made this game great but not Awesome. 
 Well, for one thing this game actually makes good use of the stylus. You use the stylus for everything 
 (which is kind of bad if you loose your stylus but if you take good care of it then you won't have 
 this problem) you draw the path of the boomerang, you pick what kind of attack you do (spin or 
 slice) , you draw the path of your ship, and you even use it to pull up treasure from the depths 
 of the sea. Another great feature is the smaller seas. If you played the first game in this toonish 
 series (Wind Waker) you know what I'm talking about, spending more time at sea then on land. But 
 now with the DS version the seas are a lot smaller (yet they still are a little annoying) so you 
 can actually spend more time on land then at sea! Also there are so many cool bosses in this game 
 it's hard to pick a favorite. I actually did pick mine because he reminded me of one of the coolest 
 bosses in Star Fox 64) . It's this guy who you smash to pieces (first the outer part showing where 
 to hit him next) . And now it's time to review the Multiplayer. The multiplayer game is OK but after 
 a while it gets kind of boring. I liked the fact that you can earn metals (or whatever they're 
 called) for doing different things in a 'battle'. Actually you don't really fight in the multiplayer, 
 all you do is walk around and try to get as many tri-force pieces as you can. When you get hit 
 by the other player (who is controlling the phantoms, a new enemy in this game, with his stylus) 
 you switch sides and now you're the phantoms and he's link (until you hit him) . 
  
  
  Now for the bad stuff (there's really not much to say here) . The worst part of this game is drawing 
 the hourglass, for some reason it took me around 15 minutes to get it right (how hard is it to 
 draw a perfect hourglass?) and when I finally finished drawing it I didn't even know what I did 
 different. Also It's so freakin' hard to find all of the ship parts without trading with friends. 
 Since very few of my friends have this game (or a DS) I could't trade, so I don't have all the 
 ship parts. Also unlike the original (Wind Waker) game there are very few uncharted islands to 
 travel too. I loved that feature but now there's less then 15, it doesn't even have an island that 
 you can own : ( .
  The last peice of bad news is that you always have to return to a crappy temple that sucks a lot, 
 it's so boring and repetitive.
  
  OK well I told you the good and the bad now here's the recap (if you're too lazy to read above 
 or if you want to make sure that you want this game) .
  
  +Good+
  + A heck of a lot of weapons
  + Smaller seas
  + A lot of very cool bosses
  
  
  +OK-
 
  + The stylus controls everything-
  + Multiplayer = fun but repetitive -
  
  -Bad-
  - Hard to draw the hourglass
  - Hard to find all the ship parts
  - You have to keep going back 
 to the repetitive hellish temple
  
  Bottom Line: Get this game if you have a DS, you'll LOVE IT! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: joeythemachine
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 10, 2008 6:32 am PT
Review:  After hearing Yatzee blast this thing on Zero Puncuation, I was a little skeptical over the legitimacy 
 of the great responses some of the larger game sites were having to this game. Forget him. He's 
 wrong.
  
  If you loved the first Legend of Zelda game for the NES or a Link to the Past for the SNES and 
 have been waiting for another great top-down perspective adventure game with the same charm and 
 wit that this franchise is known for, look no further.
  
  I'm not saying that the 3-D adventures aren't worthy of the title. Ocarina of Time, Wind Waker 
 and Twilight Princess are all brilliant, extremely strong games. But they don't quite hit the same 
 spot as the classic top-down style that the games originated with. Seeing each sliding board like 
 a maze on a paper placemat at your local diner or the back of your cereal box evokes a timeless 
 sentiment from the most simple of adventure games. AND YOU EVEN USE A PENCIL!
  
  And therein lies the strength of the DS. It's simple to the point where game designs for the platform 
 must also be very simple, which is something you don't get out of games anymore on the major platforms 
 or the PSP. Side-scrolling, sometimes 2-D adventures. Castlevania just does not translate into 
 3-D. Zelda can, but man, is it gratifying to relive some of that vintage glory.
  
  Drawing is fun. Bright colors are fun. Playing a Zelda game on the train or in the bathroom or 
 at your sister's wedding is fun. Shooting seagulls with a customizable cannon is fun. Boarding 
 ships and digging for treasure is fun. Don't worry about the repitition of the Temple of Time. 
 I'll let you in on a little secret: It's FUN! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: wael_rajab
Rating: 7.5
Date: Mar 9, 2008 11:26 am PT
Review:  This game was really fun with its new bosses and everything. I liked how u play with the stylus 
 like controlling link. Also the good thing about this game is that their was alot of puzzles and 
 you would get into traps. It was really fun when you get to the part when you get your boomerang 
 that is the best weapon in the game how you control it.
  
  This game also includes multiplayer and that is really fun if you got somebody to play it with. 
 This games story line is like any other zelda you play beat ganon and save Zelda which in this 
 game is really fun.
  
  But a problem with this game is alot of glitches happened to me while play the game other then 
 that the game is perfectly fine.
  
  I recommend this to Zelda fans This one is a good one in the sereis. also i hope you have fun with 
 the game and try to beat it... :) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: -Zills-
Rating: 8
Date: Mar 9, 2008 10:52 am PT
Review:  Considering the quality of games the Legend of Zelda franchise has produced its tough not to grade 
 this with rose colored glasses. The game has beautiful graphics and uses the DS's features extremely 
 well the boss fights are great the levels are great and they do make sailing a bit more enjoyable 
 with constant enemy attacks around every corner. The game does lack control customization as it 
 would have been nice to have the option to control with the buttons. The temple of teh Ocean King 
 is also a negative point. I have never felt so bored during a video game in my life. Its repetitive 
 and being on a timer makes its all the less enjoyable. The inability to use your shield was also 
 a disapointment for me its an automatic sheild which takes away from the combat action. The game 
 does have daily changing shop items and the ability to customize your ship whihc I found really 
 enjoyable. Overall the game is still great and like I said carries the torch passed down by windwaker. 
 Its got beautiful music, graphics, and gameplay but a few horrible points really brought down its 
 score. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: RPGamer1215
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 4, 2008 3:58 am PT
Review:  I am sure that there are other people out there that have never played a Zelda game before and 
 are curious as to how good they really are. As a matter of fact that is exactly how I was feeling 
 before I bought the game at my local GameStop. I was very very excited about playing it when I 
 got home. I had heard many things about The Legend of Zelda: Phantom Hourglass before I bought 
 it. The most promising of which was the touch-screen-only controls and the fantastic puzzles that 
 you must solve.
  Now, I must say that these graphics are by far the best I have ever seen on the Nintendo DS. They 
 have really done good on pushing the DS to the limits. Now I was a little concerned that the touch 
 screen only controls were not going to work that well, but they do!! The controls scheme for this 
 game is absolutely perfect. The way that you can trace the path of your boomerang or ship is fantastic. 
 When fighting monsters on the DS in many other games it is very drawn-out and unexciting, but this 
 game is always fun. 
  There are only two things I can sy about this game that could improve, number one being that I 
 personally hate clearing the same dungeon four or five times. But for some people it is fun because 
 then you can test your best time, so I guess that part is up to you the reader. The 2nd thing is, 
 while fishing is fun... Having to chase around a black fish shaped school of fish on the map, just 
 so you can catch a fish makes no sense at all. I mean, ITS A SEA!!! Why can't I fish anywhere?? 
 And with that, I totally recommend this game despite its very very few flaws. (lol)
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: pc1oad1etter
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 3, 2008 10:07 pm PT
Review:  This game definitely showcases what the Nintendo DS can do. Interesting puzzles, smart game play, 
 and engaging characters will leave you wanting more with this addition to the Zelda series. 
  
  When I say "leave you wanting more" it's because the game is too short in my opinion. The game 
 feels longer than it is due to the filler provided by sailing around the oceans from point A to 
 point B. The trips between islands or treasure points are a little to long. I would rather have 
 been progressing the story a bit more than spend all the time at sea jumping "sea traps". 
  
  Don't get me wrong, the ship is a great addition and it definitely adds some fun, but after 
 the novelty of it wears off, it can be a bit tiresome. The easy fix would be to make the ship just 
 a little faster. So you still get the change of scenery, but not so long that it feels like filler. 
 
  
  The story is interesting enough and the game play is fantastic. I love the stylus controls and 
 found them very intuitive. The boss fights were lots of fun as well.
  
  All in all this game is one of the better ones out there and even with my nitpicking I had a fantastic 
 time playing this game. I just wish there had been a bit more to it before it was over. Either 
 that or I wish they would come out with another Zelda game already! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: windmaster42
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 3, 2008 1:09 pm PT
Review:  This game follows after Wind waker and take all the great stuff out of it and adds more. This game 
 allows you to play as the toon version of link
  (toon link) . The game is great, the way they made it so you can do everything by just using the 
 stylus. The amout of weapons in this game are smaller than in wind waker but they make it so much 
 more fun to use.
  Now in wind waker the dungeons seemed a bit over the top but in
  Phantom hourglass they made them so much more fun , plus the bosses
  were so great and fun to 
 kill. With the new apperance of the final boss
  Bellum it gives the game more mystique since no one knows 
  anything about bellum. all and all 
 Phantom hourglass has fun level,
  interactive weapons and a hell of a lot of other stuff you definatly want to 
  see and play on 
 the legend of Zelda : phantom hourglass. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TheIndianChild
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 2, 2008 2:31 am PT
Review:  
  My first Zelda and I am not disappointed .
  
  The Legend of Zelda Phantom Hourglass is one of the shining gems of the DS library of games . First 
 , about the visuals , all I can say is "wow" . This game has a beautiful art-style that's a real 
 treat to your eyes . Considering that it's on the DS makes you appreciate the graphcis even more 
 . The character models have a real nice "charm" feeling . 
  
  The music , again , great . Gamespot says it has the best music to ever grace the DS , and I completely 
 agree . It's a pity , though , that Nintendo could'nt pack in voiced dialogues into the game .
 
  
  The gameplay of Phantom Hourglass , is the one aspect of this game that really makes it shine . 
 The controls are all done with the help of the stylus , from moving , to swinging your sword , 
 to rolling over . I admit , I had no idea how they could make the controls of this game work , 
 but after trying them out , I must say , I was really impressed . 
  
  The game has a great story , and the ending is very predictable . Gameplay is packed withover 
 the top, fantastic boss battles , which you will remember for a very long time , although they're 
 are'nt that challenging either . The puzzles were also really fun to solve , but once again , they 
 could've kicked up the difficulty a notch . 
  
  Uptil now , all that I have done in my review is praise the game . So let me begin stating it's 
 cons now . 
  
  Replayability factor is a thing which this game lacks . After you're done with the main adventure 
 , there's really not much else to do . And the feeling to start the game all over again , is a 
 feeling you will never get , regardless of the fact that the adventure mode is really amazing . 
 
  
  Another con , like i've statd before , is that the dialogues are not voiced . It's not exactly 
 a pain to read the dialogues , but I would appreciated voiced dialogues a lil more .
  
  The game is also not that challenging , and the adventure mode will last you only about 13-15 hours 
 , which is not that long , considering it's a Zelda game .
  
  But overall , this is a must own game for all DS owners and truly by far , one of the best DS games 
 you'll play for a very long time . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: goodbyethumbs
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 2, 2008 5:37 am PT
Review:  Phantom hourglass is the only Zelda game currently available on the DS, it takes place shortly 
 after the Windwaker game and follows the same theme. Until now i never really was a fan of the 
 Zelda series but i have to say, this game will have you hooked within minutes of pushing the start 
 button.
  
  The game controls are something fantastic, the DS touch screen alone is the control scheme for 
 the game, with the exception of using the D-pad and Trigger buttons on top (which is still optional) . 
 In some games this could be a huge problem but Zelda pulls it off really wel.
  
  The story is fantastic with lots of colourful characters to keep you entertained. (but we dont 
 want to go into that to much to spoil the plot for you do we :P )
  
  The game's difficulty is fairly low with the exception of a few puzzles and the occasional tricky 
 boss battle, this however does not make the game less enjoyable as there is plenty of side quests 
 and mini-games to keep you entertained for not just hours, but months. This game could be re-played 
 again and again and would still maintain its charm, a game any DS owner would be proud to have 
 in their collection.
  
  Let's pray Nintendo bring us another Zelda DS wonder. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BlazeHenry767
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 1, 2008 2:21 pm PT
Review:  Legend of Zelda Phantom Hourglass is a fun innovative game that any Zelda fan can join on the go. Phantom 
 Hourglass takes place after Wind Waker on the GameCube. Tetra is kidnap by a Ghost Ship and its 
 up to Link to Save Her with the Help of a New character named Linebeck.
  
  Gameplay: What makes the game innovative is that you use the Stylus to move, attack, draw, and solve 
 various puzzles. The controls of the game are excellent in way that you can do that action as soon 
 as you do it. The items in the game also help produce how the game is innovative like how the boomerang 
 is for example. The game delivers Interesting Bosses that require to use a certain item to use before 
 attacking it so it makes boss battles from becoming shallow. On a negative note, it softens up the 
 difficulty on the game.
  
  Graphics: Even thought the graphics are cell-shaded you have to admit that the visuals of this game 
 push the DS Graphics to the limit. In short the graphics in this game are amazing.
  
  Sound: The Music is mostly original while some of the music is remixed if you hear it well enough. For 
 sound some of it is from Wind Waker. For example, when you attack Link does same grunt like from 
 Wind waker. The Sound and Music is great to say the least.
  
  Phantom Hourglass takes a turn in Gameplay but goes in a excellent direction. This game is must 
 own for a Zelda fan and Gamer fans for the DS. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: frogloe
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 1, 2008 10:38 am PT
Review:  Back when the gamecube was young and popular a Zelda game was released. It was Zelda Wind Waker 
 the first cell shaded Zelda game! This new style of Zelda brought controversy and more along with 
 it. However Phantom Hourglass may just solve this problem because this game rules!
  ---Now normally you might say that having a game entirely based on touch screen controlls was a 
 terrible idea. Well Zelda does a great job of averting this crisis by making the games controlls 
 feel naturall. Now if you have a scratched up touch your pretty much done for and I feel bad for 
 you. Your fault though because you had to have known that the DS was gonna revolve around the touch 
 screen.
  ---This game brings back a bunch of familiar game traits such as mind bending dungeons, exploration, 
 and massive bosses. I'll say that the game may be a tad bit to easy but otherwise everything came 
 out great! The dungeons are creative and take advantage of the touch screen. The bosses are probably 
 the best I've seen so far. The exploration leaves you with plenty of things to do.
  ---For all you DS owners out there this is an instant classic that your not gonna wanna miss. So 
 go and fix that mistake that you don't own the game. This is gonna prove how good cell shaded can 
 be! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Nehine
Rating: 6
Date: Feb 29, 2008 10:21 am PT
Review:  the one thing that got me the most was the difficulty. there was none. the game practically handed 
 you everything. comparing it to other zelda games it's not the greatest. revolutionary controls, 
 they are excellent. the main thing for me was just how plain easy and short it was. in the previous 
 zelda games (ie. ocarina of time) you go find a heart PIECE. so you have to search long and hard 
 to get a whole heart. in PH however, you get a highscore in a shooting game, you get a heart. you 
 talk to this person you get a heart... not a challenge at all. you don't get new swords or shields 
 til the end of the game and i dont think you get a new shield at all. zelda games should be lengthy, 
 fun, and challenging. this is just fun... that's it. the customization of your boat is great... 
 if you feel like spending countless hours in the mini game getting boat pieces. i found myself 
 playing this over and over... countless hours getting boat pieces. i had perfected that mini game 
 and kept getting the same pieces. finally i asked myself "what am i doing with this game? i am 
 getting boat pieces... how... fun?" so i had the game for about 2 weeks and sold it. its a fun 
 game but its a bad zelda. by handing you everything so quickly the game is too easy and short. 
 if you were able to get a better sword, shield or tunic and had more pieces of hearts instead of 
 whole heart pieces, this game could have been a lot better IMO... therefore i give it a 6.0 at 
 most out of 10. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Bruuin
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 29, 2008 8:29 am PT
Review:  'The Ocarina of Time' was considered a monumental achievement upon it's release in 1998. It set 
 the tone for what could be accomplished with the new technology of it's generation and laid the 
 groundwork for the way we'd play 3D adventures for years. Receiving accolades from critics and 
 fans both, it reinvented the way we think about video games, pushing the gameplay envelope to new 
 levels. Through several following releases the console adventure game remained true to the formula 
 while the handheld counterparts embraced gameplay mechanics more in harmony with 'A Link to the 
 Past.' While these have aged very well, the arrival of the Phantom Hourglass nearly a decade later 
 is bringing about a change in the wind for one of Nintendo`s hottest properties.
  
  The new (er) technology of the DS has somewhat resulted in the melding of the two styles of gameplay 
 and added some pretty significant twists to the formula. Choosing to mimic the friendly and more 
 simplistic look and animation of the Wind Waker was a no-brainer given the technical limitations 
 of the DS. The game uses a similar top-down mechanic from previous handheld installments but make 
 no mistake, the game is fully rendered in three dimensions. The camera will make slight adjustments 
 when necessary but the standard camera perspective usually remains locked. It`s not exciting, but 
 it works.
  
  What should excite gamers is the fresh control scheme that has been invented specifically for the 
 DS. In game, Link is controlled completely via the stylus pen and while different it feels completely 
 natural. The only exceptions to the pen control are holding the bumper buttons to quickly access 
 a secondary weapon such as a bow or boomerang. It`s been nearly a decade since the series took 
 a risk this significant and results speak for themselves. Even hardcore traditionalists will be 
 hard pressed to find issue with the new level of control that the gamer has over Link. With perhaps 
 the exception of executing a roll, all of the running, sword swiping and jumping is so accurate 
 that the chances of in missing the old controls are slim-to-none with the likelihood of none being 
 the most true.
  
  All these new additions are all fine and great, but they wouldn`t mean anything if the game that 
 they`re attached to wasn`t something special as well. The Phantom Hourglass manages to tell a simple 
 story picking up where the Wind Waker left off. It blends it with some stellar level design, clever 
 puzzles and interesting and familiar characters. The one complaint that gets worse as the game 
 goes on is the Temple of the Ocean King. This dark and annoying dungeon is perhaps the only thing 
 that stands in the way of the Phantom Hourglass receiving the sort of across-the-board acclaim 
 that the Ocarina of Time did. Returning to this dungeon multiple times will have gamers in fits 
 trying to figure out why they're being punished for progressing through the game rather than being 
 rewarded. I'll be honest and admit that it was enough to make me put the game down for days, rather 
 than inviting me to continue on playing. Adventure games are about exploring new area's and discovering 
 newer places. 
  
  All the backtracking seems counter-intuitive and cheap and only adds a frustrating longevity to 
 a game that is otherwise well paced. While there are new tools that you acquire along the way that 
 help you get through it quicker than previous visits and even a midway point that lets the gamer 
 skip over the first half of the dungeon once you get to it, it's still a real pain. It puts into 
 sharp contrast the dungeons and boss battles that immediately precede these visits. These gameplay 
 elements are outstanding, creative examples of good puzzle solving and use of the DS technology.
 
  
  Despite the presence of this one ever-looming dungeon, it isn't enough to overshadow the fact that 
 the rest of the game is so enjoyable. It shows a polish in design that is unrivaled by it's peers 
 for the most part. The main quest is a blast to run through (with the one aforementioned exception) 
 and the side quests, exploration and treasure hunting add some depth to the game. While these side 
 quests don't directly effect the main storyline, the do serve to enrich it by adding small touches 
 to it that never feel out of place or tacked on. Gamers can rest assured that despite the fact 
 that the Phantom Hourglass is a handheld, it crams all the value of a full blown console game into 
 the package and at $29.99 cdn, you'll be hard pressed to find better value for the money on ANY 
 system.
  
  However, it's entirely possible that one of the things that this installment of Zelda does best 
 has nothing to do with the Phantom Hourglass at all. With the reinvention of the DS specific gameplay 
 elements, Nintendo has shown willingness to take risks with some of the basic fundamentals of the 
 property. It makes for not only an exciting game, but an exciting future for the franchise that 
 at this point lacks ground-up creation for Nintendo`s console counterpart, the Wii. Link's past, 
 present and future are all looking very bright. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bluej33
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 26, 2008 12:06 pm PT
Review:  The Legend of Zelda is one of the longest-running and most popular video game franchises ever to 
 be created. It's spanned tons of games, almost ten consoles, and more than 15 years. And yet still, 
 we keep getting them. And, for the most part, they remain good. Yes, it's true that Zelda games 
 of late have been somewhat disappointing. Twilight Princess, released for the Wii at its launch, 
 was fun, but criticized by fans as being too simple and easy, and too similar to past Zelda games. 
 Wind Waker, on the contrary, was criticized for just the opposite. It also was far too short and 
 simple, but it's graphical style in particular was a huge departure from the Zelda norm.
  
  And now we get Phantom Hourglass. It's supposed to be a sequel to Wind Waker, so this in itself 
 arises some controversy. What about that "kiddie" art style? And what about it's length and difficulty? 
 Are the Zelda games just going downhill from here? Well, you can assuage your fears, because Phantom 
 Hourglass is, in my opinion, the best Zelda game since Majora's Mask.
  
  Like I mentioned above, Phantom Hourglass is a sequel to Wind Waker. It takes place not long after 
 the events of Wind Waker, and the game begins with a quick rehash of Wind Waker's plot. And with 
 that, you are thrust into a world that bears no resemblance to anything you've seen in a Zelda 
 game before. There's no Hyrule -- there's not even any hint at Hyrule. Instead, the game takes 
 place over a huge ocean, spotted with a myriad of islands.
  
  But those islands are of no interest to you at the beginning of the game. Because you, Link, are 
 currently on a pirate ship, with Tetra (who happens to actually be Zelda) , searching for the famed 
 Ghost Ship. Atypical of Zelda games, the search is a short and easy one; it's almost as if the 
 Ghost Ship has come searching for you. Tetra, brave soul that she is, immediately jumps aboard 
 to investigate. But once she sets foot upon it, the Ghost Ship sets sail, with Tetra on board! 
 Link tries to rescue herbut to no avail.
  
  Once you wake up, the game really begins. You've washed ashore upon a strange island. A mysterious 
 fairy named Ciela and an enigmatic old man named Oshaus help you get back on your feet and agree 
 to help you find Tetra. After locating a Jack Sparrow-esque treasure-crazed captain to help you 
 navigate from island to island, the adventure begins!
  
  As with every Zelda game, the crux of Phantom Hourglass's game play lies with progressing through 
 dungeons. As you discover more and more about the secrets of the Ghost Ship and the evil that has 
 spread throughout the world, the deeper and deeper you need to delve into the secrets that the 
 game offers.
  
  At first, you simply progress through a myriad of dungeons to collect spirits, which will supposedly 
 help you defeat the evil being responsible for the disintegration of the world. As the plot progresses, 
 however, the dungeons will not only become much more difficult and involved, but you'll also be 
 hunting around for far more important and potent stuff.
  
  Dungeons all pretty much consist of the same basic elements, but they still all manage to stay 
 very fresh and unique. Essentially, there are tons of rooms, usually over multiple floors, which 
 are filled with enemies and puzzles. Defeating enemies is never a hugely difficult task -- it usually 
 just involves using a particular item that emphasizes a weakness in your foe (for example, if he's 
 wearing armor, use the boomerang to circle around and hit him in the back) , then bashing the crap 
 out of him with your sword.
  
  The many puzzles throughout the game, though, are an entirely different story. While they're not 
 quite as difficult as those of past games, they are still very well done. They're difficult and 
 all very unique (no ideas are recycled throughout the game) , but they're not so difficult that 
 they become frustrating. You may have to flip switches in a certain order, or solve a riddle to 
 unlock a door. As the game progresses, the puzzles become more and more involved and intricate 
 -- but at the same time, they also become so much more rewarding.
  
  I'll admit that I was very skeptical of Phantom Hourglass when it first came out. My biggest concern, 
 along with countless other gamers, was how the touch-screen controls would turn out. Well, I'm 
 happy to say that it really does work well -- it's quite possibly the most intuitive and unique 
 use of the DS touch screen yet. Moving is simple; simply tap to one side of the screen to walk 
 in that direction. Targeting is a matter of just keeping your stylus on a foe, and then tapping 
 him when you get close enough. You can also perform a sword strike by making a quick slash across 
 the screen with your stylus.
  
  Items are also controlled completely via the touch screen. To place a bomb, simply tap where you 
 want to put it. To fire an arrow, tap where you want to fire. The boomerang is one of the coolest 
 items in the game, because you can actually draw out the path that you want it to take. Overall, 
 the items, while not new, are sort of "remade"; while you've probably seen all of them before, 
 they are perfected in terms of how they are controlled in Phantom Hourglass.
  
  As is typical of all Zelda games, you obtain items simply by progressing through dungeons, solving 
 puzzles, and opening chests. Once you find in item, the puzzles that you'll meet in the near future 
 usually require you to use that item. It's actually quite surprising how many uses of any given 
 item the developer's have crammed into the game; while you may be using the same item four or five 
 rooms in a row, it's not at all repetitive.
  
  And then, of course, come the boss fights. They're arguably the most fun aspect of any Zelda dungeon, 
 and the same holds true in Phantom Hourglass. While the bosses are not quite as epic as they have 
 been in past Zelda games (the first one is truly disappointing, but don't worry: they get much 
 better) . As per usual, you'll be required to utilize an item (or in some cases, items) to come 
 out on top against a boss. But aside from that, what makes the boss battles really great is that 
 the touch screen is very well-utilized. In one battle, the fight spans both screens. In another, 
 your foe is invisible. However, the top screen is from his perspective, so you can use this to 
 gauge his location and engage him. It's really neat, it's really fun, but at the same time it's 
 also very distinctly Zelda.
  
  The DS's hardware capabilities are brought into play many times throughout the course of the game. 
 You can use the touch screen to make notes on your map. Use the microphone to blow out candles 
 to clear puzzles, or stun enemies by blowing on them. And arguably the coolest puzzle in the game 
 requires you to shut your DS to transfer a symbol from the top screen to the bottom. These sorts 
 of puzzles aren't the bulk of the game, so they don't feel gimmicky, but they are occasionally 
 thrown in, and really keep the game feeling fresh and innovative.
  
  Graphically, this game is one of the most impressive works on the DS. Graphics run very smoothly, 
 and are just overall very nice looking. Textures and backgrounds look great on the DS, and the 
 graphics particularly come alive during boss battles. One minor flaw, though, is that in cutscenes 
 when there is a zoom-in on anybody's face, you will definitely notice some blockiness and roughness. 
 Aside from that, though, everything looks fantastic. The music, also, is very well done. Sadly, 
 there's not a whole lot of original music; however, the little that is present is fantastic. The 
 vast majority of the sound in the game comes from remixed Zelda music, which is nonetheless great. 
 The sound effects, though (which consist mainly of Link shouting "Hy-aah!" over and over again) 
 can get very annoying. Still, for the most part, you will play this game with your volume switch 
 all the way to the right.
  
  One of Phantom Hourglass's biggest problem arrives in form of its difficulty level. Clearly, Phantom 
 Hourglass has been geared toward the casual gamer, one who is not necessarily willing to solve 
 hugely complicated enemies or take on near-invulnerable foes. The game's difficulty has been geared 
 down, and it really shows. Puzzles, while unique, are not very difficult. The exploration factor, 
 which in past games has provided prizes to only the most creative adventurers, is also made far 
 easier. Another staple of Zelda games, pieces of heart, have been taken out. Zelda fans will be 
 angry, but they've now been replaced with full heart containers. Yes, that's right: rather than 
 finding a piece of heart for completing a side-quest, you'll now receive an entire heart. This 
 one fact is possibly the biggest compromising item in terms of difficulty in Phantom Hourglass.
 
  
  Yet despite that fact, Phantom Hourglass provides a surprisingly lengthy adventure. You'll encounter 
 the Ghost Ship after less than ten hours of play; it seems that you're nearing the end, only to 
 find out that you're in fact less than halfway through. It provides a lengthy, entertaining adventure, 
 and isn't the kind of game that you're going to be able to breeze through in a day. And still, 
 I'm willing to forgive the fact that Phantom Hourglass is fairly easy, simply because it is such 
 an overachiever in nearly every other aspect of the game.
  
  Phantom Hourglass also offers some multiplayer, which is surprisingly fun. It's a kind of game 
 of tag, where one player is Link and must take Triforce pieces from around the dungeon and deposit 
 them in a safe zone. The other player takes control of three Phantoms -- invulnerable, armored 
 monsters -- and draws their paths on the map in an attempt to capture Link. There are a number 
 of different courses to play on, and you can play either with download play, multi-card play, or 
 even on Nintendo's WiFi connection. It's nothing as fun and engaging as, say, Four Swords, but 
 it's still a fun little diversion. Adding on to the online experience, users can trade treasures 
 and ship parts with other people who own the game.
  
  Overall, Phantom Hourglass really does offer the quintessential Nintendo DS gaming experience. 
 The controls are flawless, and the graphics are pushed to their limit. The story is well-done and 
 innovative, and the dungeons are very well-designed. Admittedly, the game is disappointingly easy, 
 but I'm willing to overlook that fact just because of the sheer brilliance of game play and the 
 fact that DS functionality is so seamlessly incorporated into the game. The Legend of Zelda: Phantom 
 Hourglass is a must-have for any DS owner. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jann_101
Rating: 8.5
Date: Feb 24, 2008 9:17 pm PT
Review:  
  I admit that Zelda PH got me because of its gimmicks..
  
  Blowing candles through the Microphone, Blowing the Dusts away, Shouting for a cheaper price, Closing 
 the DS to trace maps, etc..
  
  I mean all of these are new in the the handheld gaming industry and I guess it had a lot to do 
 to make Zelda PH reach the top..
  
  The Characters are also one of the factors that made this game so endearing..
  Linebeck, Link, 
 and the fairy' s script was so well written that it gave this game a touch of life..
  
  
  But then on the negative side, all the sailing in this game removed the "exploration" factor found 
 in most Zelda games.. 
  
  Zelda PH is way different from its predecessors that the Gimmicks are the only ones that that made 
 me love it.. 
  
  The storyline is even awful.. But again, the gimmicks and the characters are the ones that compensated 
 for PH's lacks.. 
  
  Bottom Line is: Zelda PH can still be improved and could have been a better game if the storyline 
 is improved and classic Zelda Exploration was not removed..
  
  I'm now playing Zelda Minish Cap on my DS hoping that it would be better than PH.. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: vatterott
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 14, 2008 2:43 pm PT
Review:  THE LEGEND OF ZELDA
  PHANTOM HOURGLASS
  
  
  
  The Legend of Zelda: Phantom Hourglass is like dark chocolate. I was tentative about getting it, 
 but as soon as I did I was happy; I didn't want it to end.
  
  Good:
  -Some of the best graphics on the DS
  -Mind blowing puzzles
  -Great controls; use of touch 
 screen, mic, dual screens
  -Fantastic music
  -Funny dialogue
  -Amazing boss battles
  -Plenty more to do than just play the story
  -Functional multiplayer
  
  Bad:
  -A bit too 
 easy
  -Some pixilation makes it look bad
  -It ends
  
  Phantom Hourglass's graphics are just plain awesome. They are perfect for the DS. The only limitation 
 is the size of the screen. Smoke particles will look squarish, and object in the distance, too. 
 Bosses look great, as well as various people and enemies. The style of the world also had a kiddy 
 feel, like legs that were too small, and colorful sprites. Cut scenes were great. Everything in 
 the world was real, but it had an almost humorous air to it.
  
  Graphics: 9/10
  
  In every Zelda game there is great music, and Phantom Hourglass definitely honors that. From the 
 pirate/sailing tune forsailing, to the 3rd to last boss battle, its there. Whether funny, intense, 
 or relaxed mood is trying to be conveyed, the music usually takes the lead. Sound effects, like 
 the springing of a board, are present. They add little blips of humor, too. Somehow the DS' tiny 
 little speakers transmit all of this emotion.
  
  Sound: 10/10
  
  The combination of the puzzles and controls is what amazes me. I am still in awe of some of the 
 puzzles. THEY ARE INGENIOUS. One you have to make a rope between two points, and use it as a giant 
 slingshot. Another, you have to launch a rock several stories, just to break another rock. The 
 controls take about 20 minutes to pick up, and the single player sets is up perfectly. The map 
 thing, now that is cool. So much of the game would be going back to that one sign if the map system 
 weren't present. It is so cool. The DS' extra features also get used. From blowing out candles 
 with the microphone, to drawing symbols with the touch screen. You could play this with one hand, 
 as long as you have something to set it on.
  
  The story is too easy, though. I don't mid breezing through the game, but only one boss battle 
 required multiple tries. If someone wanted to, this game could be beaten in under three days. I 
 must have beaten the first half over Christmas break. The single player is awesome. I don't know 
 how someone could not like it.
  
  Single player/story/gameplay: 9.5/10
  
  Most Zelda games take a while to beat. Phantom Hourglass is shorter than most Zelda games, but 
 makes up for it. There are so many extra things to collect, quests to complete, and people to battle. 
 If you were to get everything in the game, twenty hours may be covered. The addition of multiplayer 
 does add some. Not only is there single card, but there is also Wi-Fi. While the multiplayer isn't 
 going to change the world, it does add some fun if you have connections. 
  
  Value: 8.5/10
  
  The Legend of Zelda: Phantom Hourglass is a great game. Not only is it intuitive, 
 it is highly polished. Things are put in that would make the game boring otherwise, like funny 
 dialogue, and sound effects. It is not the best Zelda game, but a phantasic DS game, and a darn 
 good game anyway.
  
  Overall: 9.0/10
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mysticgray
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 22, 2008 2:56 am PT
Review:  I adore this game!
  The gameplay is pretty addictive and being a Zelda fan anyway I was not disappointed with this 
 game.
  The graphics are brilliant it really shows what the Nintendo DS is capable of and the characters 
 are sooo cute. I like the puzzles in the game and not being a puzzle person I didn't find them 
 too hard and was able to complete them pretty easily (if I can do em anyone can lol) . Being a huge 
 RPG fan I found that this game has enough in it to keep you occupied and would appeal just about 
 everyone. 
  If you've never played a Zelda game before then I highly recommed playing this as it has a lot 
 of the original Zelda aspects and enough new stuff to make it a game to enjoy. It should keep even 
 the hardest to please players happy!!
  All in all its a pretty great game. Go Zelda! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: onanman
Rating: 9.5
Date: Feb 21, 2008 10:54 pm PT
Review:  First of all, I didn't think that playing with the stylus should be so fun, but it is geniusly 
 made for easy gameplay with good controls of link and the possibility of making notes on the map 
 inspires me to play more.
  
  I think that the games in these days have moved further and further against meaningless games without 
 any "soul". I have been with Nintendo since 1989 with their first stationary console NES. I think 
 that the games for the NES and SNES still is the greatest. Nintendo had a long period of making 
 games and consoles that gave you only action and excitement, but no satisfaction. Now, Nindendo 
 is moving back in time, making consoles that have regained their soul again. The games are made 
 for you to wanting to play them. Not making you to feel that you have to play them.
  
  "The Legend of Zelda: Phantom Hourglass" is a good example of a game that you don't have to play, 
 but you play it because you want to. The gameplay compared to one of their old, but very good games 
 "The Legend of Zelda - A Link to the Past", is very similar. This is a good concept, because it 
 is made simple, but fun. In this game though, they have compared old-style playing with new-style 
 playing. You get a better opportunity to explore in a fast, easy and entertaining way with sailing 
 on the sea and finding treasures, secret islands etc. You can even upgrade your ship by visiting 
 merchants. The trade in this game is a lot cooler than in the older games.
  
  I'm not experienced with the 3d Zelda games for Gamecube and Nintendo 64, because I didn't like 
 these games. I have Zelda for Wii, which is a lot better than these games, but still it is not 
 the same. Maybe it is me gettin' old fashion, because these games are good to. But not that good.
 
  
  Anyway, I strongly recommend "The Legend of Zelda - Phantom Hourglass". It is worth spending a 
 lot of time with :-) . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: thattotally
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 20, 2008 9:04 pm PT
Review:  One of Nintendo's most successful franchises is on the DS. How does it compare? well dont believe 
 everything you hear. Nintendo has done it again to provide innovative control and enjoyable gameplay. 
 A sequel, in fact a direct sequel to the award winning Wind Waker game, Phantom Hourglass takes 
 place... no where near the gamecube game. hehehe
  
  A rather bland story (though interesting to the younger folk) is not what you should really be 
 reliant on for this game. Other than that, the graphics look purdy enough, the gameplay works out 
 perfectly, and the sound is catchy enough. A big win is the fact that sailing has become less tedious 
 (though that's to be expected) and it really makes you interact more with the environment. Basically 
 it's a game that has great factors on all sides, and even the infamous "phantom dungeon" can be 
 eventually looked over... at the very near end of the game
  
  All in all a great addition to the series, and a great reference can be found to stubborn D-pad 
 players... that certainly made me lol out loud 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TechDresdain
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 20, 2008 6:08 am PT
Review:  The story of The Legend of Zelda: The Wind Waker continues as Link finds himself lost and alone 
 in undiscovered seas in a new adventure. Featuring intuitive touch-screen controls and innovative 
 puzzles, The Legend of Zelda: Phantom Hourglass offers new challenges and puzzles to solve for 
 fans of the series and an introduction for gamers new to The Legend of Zelda. But time grows short, 
 and only the Phantom Hourglass can buy Link the minutes and seconds he'll need to resist. The following, 
 makes the game enjoying. The stylus makes controlling Link easier than ever. Tap on the screen 
 to make Link move, or sweep the stylus around him to swing the sword. Players can even draw a path 
 for his boomerang and send it flying into hard-to-reach targets. Isn't that cool? Players can stash 
 the map on the top screen for quick reference or drop it to the touch screen to make notes , put 
 clues, study enemies, or chart a path for their boat to follow while they man the cannons. You 
 can even sail with your boat and you can also change parts of the ship. he game action takes place 
 primarily on the touch screen, with a map on the top screen. However, the player can inspect the 
 map on the touch screen and make notes using the stylus. The notes on these maps are saved for 
 review on the top screen during game play. Players use the map to chart courses for their ships, 
 too. Using the stylus to draw a path through the islands, players set their ships' courses. Then, 
 as the ships automatically follow the paths drawn, players can control their ships' cannons to 
 target oncoming enemies. In dungeons, players can use the touch screen to draw paths for boomerangs, 
 sending them flying around corners or into otherwise unreachable areas. Isn't that cooler? Now 
 are you satisfied? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: altenter
Rating: 9.5
Date: Feb 19, 2008 8:13 pm PT
Review:  The Legend of Zelda: Phantom Hourglass is very fun adventure game for the ds. This Zelda game was 
 built perfectly for the ds, (if on wii it would not sell) . this game (conclusion of wind waker) 
 starts out with a pirate ghost ship that kidnaps Petra (aka princess Zelda) and you later get washed 
 ashore to some island which you find a sword, a ship and begin your adventure. the customized ship 
 parts is very cool to work out, the more one type of ships parts the more chances you'll survive 
 on the water or you could just make the ship cool looking. the styles control moves make the game 
 more interesting, (charting a course for the ship, navigating the boomerang around and slicing 
 your enemies around. going back and forth to go through the timed maze with the phantom hourglass 
 was very dull they could of at least added tiny islands or something to make you not go to the 
 same place every time for a new sea chart. catching fish in this game using the touch pad seemed 
 almost like the real thing but twilight princess for the wii beats this fishing mini game. picking 
 up treasure from the bottom of the sea was fun to see what mystery thing you got in the chest. 
 the multiplayer game for Zelda is really boring, (be better attacking a whole bunch of links in 
 a arena type map) . the first stage fighting the final boss was a pain to draw an hourglass sideways 
 on the touch screen there was like only 19 percent of getting the sign drawn really fast in the 
 correct order, (took me over 100 try's to get it down) . 
  
  Overall this Zelda game for the Nintendo ds will have you playing it until you get all golden ship 
 parts, hearts and spirit gems.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Nintendoguy325
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 19, 2008 2:46 pm PT
Review:  Phantom Hourglass was a title many Zelda fans waited for, and turned to be a worthy play. 
  The story isn't much different from other Zelda games, except it's based in the middle of the ocean, 
 and it's not Zelda who goes missing. You're traveling along in your boat with a pirate crew, and, 
 from out of nowhere, a ghost ship appears. Next thing you know, Tetra (the girl on the ship) gets 
 kidnapped, and then you have to save her. You spend the hours travelling from island to island, 
 finding Spirits and new weapons and sand (yes, sand) to get through a labyrinth to find Tetra (or 
 at least a clue) .
  The graphics are pretty well for a DS game. Everything is 3-D and cartoony, like it's predecessor 
 Windwaker. Again, the characters communcate via moving their heads and waving their arms, which 
 can be entertaining sometimes. The music is also classic Zelda.
  Combat in P. H. takes a little getting used to; instead of button mashing, you bring the stylus 
 across the screen to swipe. The stylus also works pretty well for the other weapons as well. Admittedly, 
 enemies are a little easy to the seasoned veteran. And the boss fights become a little too straight 
 forward when you figure it out.
  The puzzles make a comeback. Most of the puzzles will be easy to figure out, while some will make 
 you scratch your head in thought. A few will even have you screaming, because some will seem difficult, 
 but have aggravatingly simple solutions.
  Getting from place to place is a downside in this game. Like in Windwaker, you get around via boat. 
 An upside to this is that you don't manually drive. Instead, you plot your course on a map, and, 
 after a few minutes, you arrive. The boat is also customizable, so you don't have to look at the 
 same steam boat for the duration of the voyage. An to use the cannon, just tap the screen.
  Overall, Phantom Hourglass is a must play. While you will probably spend most of the time sailing, 
 and easily chopping down the monsters, any Zelda fan will enjoy it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: LokTinChiu_1993
Rating: 9.5
Date: Feb 18, 2008 8:00 pm PT
Review:  It doesn't matter wheather your a fan of the series or not, Phantom Hourglass is a terrific game 
 and will satisfy every one of your needs. it uses the mechanics of the DS really well, has great 
 graphics, sounds and storyline. Once you start playing this game, you won't want to stop until 
 you finish. If you've played any of the other Zelda games, you'll be familiar with the weapons, 
 puzzles and other things in this game. Also, if you've played other Zelda games, you'll find this 
 one quite alot easier and a bit shorter. One thing that gets frustrating, is that you have to go 
 down the temple of the ocean king every time to get a new sea chart. The game makes you repeat 
 any previos puzzles. After a while though, it lets you jump a couple levels, but you still have 
 to repeat the puzzles after that. Over all though it is a great game and a must have for the DS. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: waelzleb
Rating: 9.5
Date: Feb 18, 2008 12:05 pm PT
Review:  One might think of the cel -shadedness of WindWaker and Phantom Hourglass childish before playing... 
 but its really as good as they come.
  
  If you like the semi-easy puzzles and great adventures of Link in many last installments then this 
 is the 'must own' DS game 4 u.
  Now im not saying that the DS doesnt have any other good games but this in my book is numero uno.
 
  
  Well first off the bads:
  Um... the Ocean Kings castle was crap !
  you would have 2 go threw it every time u would beat a temple.... which in my case was like once 
 ever like 2-3 hours TOPS ! Now I also found ways 2 intertain myself so it wasnt AS BAD but it got 
 REAL boring REAL quick.
  
  Other then that there was the occasional roll or slash that didnt work (most likely just my DS 
 that made it like that) . And the last bad wasnt even that bad, but 4 some resome i had a semi big 
 problem with the damn sharks in the final sea chart. I just couldnt hit um !
  
  I mean i was carrying 1500 ruppies or more at a time just because I was obsessed with digging. 
 I mean there was a time when i had 7000+ just because i saved up 2 buy crap.
  
  I mean in the end u'll thank urself 4 buying this game.
  Its worth EVERY cent ! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mother_Brain
Rating: 9.5
Date: Feb 18, 2008 11:36 am PT
Review:  THIS GAME IS GREAT. LINK I LONG TO THE DAY WE'LL MEET AGAIN! THIS GAME IS GREAT. LINK I LONG TO THE 
 DAY WE'LL MEET AGAIN! THIS GAME IS GREAT. LINK I LONG TO THE DAY WE'LL MEET AGAIN! THIS GAME IS GREAT. LINK 
 I LONG TO THE DAY WE'LL MEET AGAIN! THIS GAME IS GREAT. LINK I LONG TO THE DAY WE'LL MEET AGAIN! THIS 
 GAME IS GREAT. LINK I LONG TO THE DAY WE'LL MEET AGAIN! THIS GAME IS GREAT. LINK I LONG TO THE DAY 
 WE'LL MEET AGAIN! THIS GAME IS GREAT. LINK I LONG TO THE DAY WE'LL MEET AGAIN! THIS GAME IS GREAT. LINK 
 I LONG TO THE DAY WE'LL MEET AGAIN! THIS GAME IS GREAT. LINK I LONG TO THE DAY WE'LL MEET AGAIN! THIS 
 GAME IS GREAT. LINK I LONG TO THE DAY WE'LL MEET AGAIN! THIS GAME IS GREAT. LINK I LONG TO THE DAY 
 WE'LL MEET AGAIN! THIS GAME IS GREAT. LINK I LONG TO THE DAY WE'LL MEET AGAIN! THIS GAME IS GREAT. LINK 
 I LONG TO THE DAY WE'LL MEET AGAIN! THIS GAME IS GREAT. LINK I LONG TO THE DAY WE'LL MEET AGAIN! THIS 
 GAME IS GREAT. LINK I LONG TO THE DAY WE'LL MEET AGAIN! THIS GAME IS GREAT. LINK I LONG TO THE DAY 
 WE'LL MEET AGAIN! THIS GAME IS GREAT. LINK I LONG TO THE DAY WE'LL MEET AGAIN! THIS GAME IS GREAT. LINK 
 I LONG TO THE DAY WE'LL MEET AGAIN! THIS GAME IS GREAT. LINK I LONG TO THE DAY WE'LL MEET AGAIN! THIS 
 GAME IS GREAT. LINK I LONG TO THE DAY WE'LL MEET AGAIN! THIS GAME IS GREAT. LINK I LONG TO THE DAY 
 WE'LL MEET AGAIN! THIS GAME IS GREAT. LINK I LONG TO THE DAY WE'LL MEET AGAIN! THIS GAME IS GREAT. LINK 
 I LONG TO THE DAY WE'LL MEET AGAIN! THIS GAME IS GREAT. LINK I LONG TO THE DAY WE'LL MEET AGAIN! THIS 
 GAME IS GREAT. LINK I LONG TO THE DAY WE'LL MEET AGAIN! THIS GAME IS GREAT. LINK I LONG TO THE DAY 
 WE'LL MEET AGAIN! THIS GAME IS GREAT. LINK I LONG TO THE DAY WE'LL MEET AGAIN! THIS GAME IS GREAT. LINK 
 I LONG TO THE DAY WE'LL MEET AGAIN! THIS GAME IS GREAT. LINK I LONG TO THE DAY WE'LL MEET AGAIN! THIS 
 GAME IS GREAT. LINK I LONG TO THE DAY WE'LL MEET AGAIN! THIS GAME IS GREAT. LINK I LONG TO THE DAY 
 WE'LL MEET AGAIN! THIS GAME IS GREAT. LINK I LONG TO THE DAY WE'LL MEET AGAIN! THIS GAME IS GREAT. LINK 
 I LONG TO THE DAY WE'LL MEET AGAIN! THIS GAME IS GREAT. LINK I LONG TO THE DAY WE'LL MEET AGAIN! THIS 
 GAME IS GREAT. LINK I LONG TO THE DAY WE'LL MEET AGAIN! THIS GAME IS GREAT. LINK I LONG TO THE DAY 
 WE'LL MEET AGAIN! THIS GAME IS GREAT. LINK I LONG TO THE DAY WE'LL MEET AGAIN! THIS GAME IS GREAT. LINK 
 I LONG TO THE DAY WE'LL MEET AGAIN! THIS GAME IS GREAT. LINK I LONG TO THE DAY WE'LL MEET AGAIN! THIS 
 GAME IS GREAT. LINK I LONG TO THE DAY WE'LL MEET AGAIN! THIS GAME IS GREAT. LINK I LONG TO THE DAY 
 WE'LL MEET AGAIN! THIS GAME IS GREAT. LINK I LONG TO THE DAY WE'LL MEET AGAIN! THIS GAME IS GREAT. LINK 
 I LONG TO THE DAY WE'LL MEET AGAIN! THIS GAME IS GREAT. LINK I LONG TO THE DAY WE'LL MEET AGAIN! THIS 
 GAME IS GREAT. LINK I LONG TO THE DAY WE'LL MEET AGAIN! THIS GAME IS GREAT. LINK I LONG TO THE DAY 
 WE'LL MEET AGAIN! THIS GAME IS GREAT. LINK I LONG TO THE DAY WE'LL MEET AGAIN! THIS GAME IS GREAT. LINK 
 I LONG TO THE DAY WE'LL MEET AGAIN! THIS GAME IS GREAT. LINK I LONG TO THE DAY WE'LL MEET AGAIN! THIS 
 GAME IS GREAT. LINK I LONG TO THE DAY WE'LL MEET AGAIN! THIS GAME IS GREAT. LINK I LONG TO THE DAY 
 WE'LL MEET AGAIN! THIS GAME IS GREAT. LINK I LONG TO THE DAY WE'LL MEET AGAIN! THIS GAME IS GREAT. LINK 
 I LONG TO THE DAY WE'LL MEET AGAIN! THIS GAME IS GREAT. LINK I LONG TO THE DAY WE'LL MEET AGAIN! THIS 
 GAME IS GREAT. LINK I LONG TO THE DAY WE'LL MEET AGAIN! THIS GAME IS GREAT. LINK I LONG TO THE DAY 
 WE'LL MEET AGAIN! THIS GAME IS GREAT. LINK I LONG TO THE DAY WE'LL MEET AGAIN! THIS GAME IS GREAT. LINK 
 I LONG TO THE DAY WE'LL MEET AGAIN! THIS GAME IS GREAT. LINK I LONG TO THE DAY WE'LL MEET AGAIN! THIS 
 GAME IS GREAT. LINK I LONG TO THE DAY WE'LL MEET AGAIN! THIS GAME IS GREAT. LINK I LONG TO THE DAY 
 WE'LL MEET AGAIN! THIS GAME IS GREAT. LINK I LONG TO THE DAY WE'LL MEET AGAIN! THIS GAME IS GREAT. LINK 
 I LONG TO THE DAY WE'LL MEET AGAIN! THIS GAME IS GREAT. LINK I LONG TO THE DAY WE'LL MEET AGAIN! THIS 
 GAME IS GREAT. LINK I LONG TO THE DAY WE'LL MEET AGAIN! THIS GAME IS GREAT. LINK I LONG TO THE DAY 
 WE'LL MEET AGAIN! THIS GAME IS GREAT. LINK I LONG TO THE DAY WE'LL MEET AGAIN! THIS GAME IS GREAT. LINK 
 I LONG TO THE DAY WE'LL MEET AGAIN! THIS GAME IS GREAT. LINK I LONG TO THE DAY WE'LL MEET AGAIN! THIS 
 GAME IS GREAT. LINK I LONG TO THE DAY WE'LL MEET AGAIN! THIS GAME IS GREAT. LINK I LONG TO THE DAY 
 WE'LL MEET AGAIN! THIS GAME IS GREAT. LINK I LONG TO THE DAY WE'LL MEET AGAIN! THIS GAME IS GREAT. LINK 
 I LONG TO THE DAY WE'LL MEET AGAIN! THIS GAME IS GREAT. LINK I LONG TO THE DAY WE'LL MEET AGAIN! THIS 
 GAME IS GREAT. LINK I LONG TO THE DAY WE'LL MEET AGAIN! THIS GAME IS GREAT. LINK I LONG TO THE DAY 
 WE'LL MEET AGAIN! THIS GAME IS GREAT. LINK I LONG TO THE DAY WE'LL MEET AGAIN! THIS GAME IS GREAT. LINK 
 I LONG TO THE DAY WE'LL MEET AGAIN! THIS GAME IS GREAT. LINK I LONG TO THE DAY WE'LL MEET AGAIN! THIS 
 GAME IS GREAT. LINK I LONG TO THE DAY WE'LL MEET AGAIN! THIS GAME IS GREAT. LINK I LONG TO THE DAY 
 WE'LL MEET AGAIN! THIS GAME IS GREAT. LINK I LONG TO THE DAY WE'LL MEET AGAIN! THIS GAME IS GREAT. LINK 
 I LONG TO THE DAY WE'LL MEET AGAIN! THIS GAME IS GREAT. LINK I LONG TO THE DAY WE'LL MEET AGAIN! THIS 
 GAME IS GREAT. LINK I LONG TO THE DAY WE'LL MEET AGAIN! THIS GAME IS GREAT. LINK I LONG TO THE DAY 
 WE'LL MEET AGAIN! THIS GAME IS GREAT. LINK I LONG TO THE DAY WE'LL MEET AGAIN! THIS GAME IS GREAT. LINK 
 I LONG TO THE DAY WE'LL MEET AGAIN! THIS GAME IS GREAT. LINK I LONG TO THE DAY WE'LL MEET AGAIN! THIS 
 GAME IS GREAT. LINK I LONG TO THE DAY WE'LL MEET AGAIN! THIS GAME IS GREAT. LINK I LONG TO THE DAY 
 WE'LL MEET AGAIN! THIS GAME IS GREAT. LINK I LONG TO THE DAY WE'LL MEET AGAIN! THIS GAME IS GREAT. LINK 
 I LONG TO THE DAY WE'LL MEET AGAIN! THIS GAME IS GREAT. LINK I LONG TO THE DAY WE'LL MEET AGAIN! THIS 
 GAME IS GREAT. LINK I LONG TO THE DAY WE'LL MEET AGAIN! THIS GAME IS GREAT. LINK I LONG TO THE DAY 
 WE'LL MEET AGAIN! THIS GAME IS GREAT. LINK I LONG TO THE DAY WE'LL MEET AGAIN! THIS GAME IS GREAT. LINK 
 I LONG TO THE DAY WE'LL MEET AGAIN! THIS GAME IS GREAT. LINK I LONG TO THE DAY WE'LL MEET AGAIN! THIS 
 GAME IS GREAT. LINK I LONG TO THE DAY WE'LL MEET AGAIN! THIS GAME IS GREAT. LINK I LONG TO THE DAY 
 WE'LL MEET AGAIN! THIS GAME IS GREAT. LINK I LONG TO THE DAY WE'LL MEET AGAIN! THIS GAME IS GREAT. LINK 
 I LONG TO THE DAY WE'LL MEET AGAIN! THIS GAME IS GREAT. LINK I LONG TO THE DAY WE'LL MEET AGAIN! THIS 
 GAME IS GREAT. LINK I LONG TO THE DAY WE'LL MEET AGAIN! THIS GAME IS GREAT. LINK I LONG TO THE DAY 
 WE'LL MEET AGAIN! THIS GAME IS GREAT. LINK I LONG TO THE DAY WE'LL MEET AGAIN! THIS GAME IS GREAT. LINK 
 I LONG TO THE DAY WE'LL MEET AGAIN! THIS GAME IS GREAT. LINK I LONG TO THE DAY WE'LL MEET AGAIN! THIS 
 GAME IS GREAT. LINK I LONG TO THE DAY WE'LL MEET AGAIN! THIS GAME IS GREAT. LINK I LONG TO THE DAY 
 WE'LL MEET AGAIN! THIS GAME IS GREAT. LINK I LONG TO THE DAY WE'LL MEET AGAIN! THIS GAME IS GREAT. LINK 
 I LONG TO THE DAY WE'LL MEET AGAIN! THIS GAME IS GREAT. LINK I LONG TO THE DAY WE'LL MEET AGAIN! THIS 
 GAME IS GREAT. LINK I LONG TO THE DAY WE'LL MEET AGAIN! THIS GAME IS GREAT. LINK I LONG TO THE DAY 
 WE'LL MEET AGAIN! THIS GAME IS GREAT. LINK I LONG TO THE DAY WE'LL MEET AGAIN! THIS GAME IS GREAT. LINK 
 I LONG TO THE DAY WE'LL MEET AGAIN! THIS GAME IS GREAT. LINK I LONG TO THE DAY WE'LL MEET AGAIN! THIS 
 GAME IS GREAT. LINK I LONG TO THE DAY WE'LL MEET AGAIN! THIS GAME IS GREAT. LINK I LONG TO THE DAY 
 WE'LL MEET AGAIN! THIS GAME IS GREAT. LINK I LONG TO THE DAY WE'LL MEET AGAIN! THIS GAME IS GREAT. LINK 
 I LONG TO THE DAY WE'LL MEET AGAIN! THIS GAME IS GREAT. LINK I LONG TO THE DAY WE'LL MEET AGAIN! THIS 
 GAME IS GREAT. LINK I LONG TO THE DAY WE'LL MEET AGAIN! THIS GAME IS GREAT. LINK I LONG TO THE DAY 
 WE'LL MEET AGAIN! THIS GAME IS GREAT. LINK I LONG TO THE DAY WE'LL MEET AGAIN! THIS GAME IS GREAT. LINK 
 I LONG TO THE DAY WE'LL MEET AGAIN! THIS GAME IS GREAT. LINK I LONG TO THE DAY WE'LL MEET AGAIN! THIS 
 GAME IS GREAT. LINK I LONG TO THE DAY WE'LL MEET AGAIN! THIS GAME IS GREAT. LINK I LONG TO THE DAY 
 WE'LL MEET AGAIN! THIS GAME IS GREAT. LINK I LONG TO THE DAY WE'LL MEET AGAIN! THIS GAME IS GREAT. LINK 
 I LONG TO THE DAY WE'LL MEET AGAIN! THIS GAME IS GREAT. LINK I LONG TO THE DAY WE'LL MEET AGAIN! THIS 
 GAME IS GREAT. LINK I LONG TO THE DAY WE'LL MEET AGAIN! THIS GAME IS GREAT. LINK I LONG TO THE DAY 
 WE'LL MEET AGAIN! THIS GAME IS GREAT. LINK I LONG TO THE DAY WE'LL MEET AGAIN! THIS GAME IS GREAT. LINK 
 I LONG TO THE DAY WE'LL MEET AGAIN! THIS GAME IS GREAT. LINK I LONG TO THE DAY WE'LL MEET AGAIN! THIS 
 GAME IS GREAT. LINK I LONG TO THE DAY WE'LL MEET AGAIN! THIS GAME IS GREAT. LINK I LONG TO THE DAY 
 WE'LL MEET AGAIN! THIS GAME IS GREAT. LINK I LONG TO THE DAY WE'LL MEET AGAIN! THIS GAME IS GREAT. LINK 
 I LONG TO THE DAY WE'LL MEET AGAIN! THIS GAME IS GREAT. LINK I LONG TO THE DAY WE'LL MEET AGAIN! THIS 
 GAME IS GREAT. LINK I LONG TO THE DAY WE'LL MEET AGAIN! THIS GAME IS GREAT. LINK I LONG TO THE DAY 
 WE'LL MEET AGAIN! THIS GAME IS GREAT. LINK I LONG TO THE DAY WE'LL MEET AGAIN! THIS GAME IS GREAT. LINK 
 I LONG TO THE DAY WE'LL MEET AGAIN! THIS GAME IS GREAT. LINK I LONG TO THE DAY WE'LL MEET AGAIN! THIS 
 GAME IS GREAT. LINK I LONG TO THE DAY WE'LL MEET AGAIN! THIS GAME IS GREAT. LINK I LONG TO THE DAY 
 WE'LL MEET AGAIN! THIS GAME IS GREAT. LINK I LONG TO THE DAY WE'LL MEET AGAIN! THIS GAME IS GREAT. LINK 
 I LONG TO THE DAY WE'LL MEET AGAIN! THIS GAME IS GREAT. LINK I LONG TO THE DAY WE'LL MEET AGAIN! THIS 
 GAME IS GREAT. LINK I LONG TO THE DAY WE'LL MEET AGAIN! THIS GAME IS GREAT. LINK I LONG TO THE DAY 
 WE'LL MEET AGAIN! THIS GAME IS GREAT. LINK I LONG TO THE DAY WE'LL MEET AGAIN! THIS GAME IS GREAT. LINK 
 I LONG TO THE DAY WE'LL MEET AGAIN! THIS GAME IS GREAT. LINK I LONG TO THE DAY WE'LL MEET AGAIN! THIS 
 GAME IS GREAT. LINK I LONG TO THE DAY WE'LL MEET AGAIN! THIS GAME IS GREAT. LINK I LONG TO THE DAY 
 WE'LL MEET AGAIN! THIS GAME IS GREAT. LINK I LONG TO THE DAY WE'LL MEET AGAIN! THIS GAME IS GREAT. LINK 
 I LONG TO THE DAY WE'LL MEET AGAIN! THIS GAME IS GREAT. LINK I LONG TO THE DAY WE'LL MEET AGAIN! THIS 
 GAME IS GREAT. LINK I LONG TO THE DAY WE'LL MEET AGAIN! THIS GAME IS GREAT. LINK I LONG TO THE DAY 
 WE'LL MEET AGAIN! THIS GAME IS GREAT. LINK I LONG TO THE DAY WE'LL MEET AGAIN! THIS GAME IS GREAT. LINK 
 I LONG TO THE DAY WE'LL MEET AGAIN! THIS GAME IS GREAT. LINK I LONG TO THE DAY WE'LL MEET AGAIN! THIS 
 GAME IS GREAT. LINK I LONG TO THE DAY WE'LL MEET AGAIN! THIS GAME IS GREAT. LINK I LONG TO THE DAY 
 WE'LL MEET AGAIN! THIS GAME IS GREAT. LINK I LONG TO THE DAY WE'LL MEET AGAIN! THIS GAME IS GREAT. LINK 
 I LONG TO THE DAY WE'LL MEET AGAIN! THIS GAME IS GREAT. LINK I LONG TO THE DAY WE'LL MEET AGAIN! THIS 
 GAME IS GREAT. LINK I LONG TO THE DAY WE'LL MEET AGAIN! THIS GAME IS GREAT. LINK I LONG TO THE DAY 
 WE'LL MEET AGAIN! THIS GAME IS GREAT. LINK I LONG TO THE DAY WE'LL MEET AGAIN! THIS GAME IS GREAT. LINK 
 I LONG TO THE DAY WE'LL MEET AGAIN! THIS GAME IS GREAT. LINK I LONG TO THE DAY WE'LL MEET AGAIN! THIS 
 GAME IS GREAT. LINK I LONG TO THE DAY WE'LL MEET AGAIN! THIS GAME IS GREAT. LINK I LONG TO THE DAY 
 WE'LL MEET AGAIN! THIS GAME IS GREAT. LINK I LONG TO THE DAY WE'LL MEET AGAIN! THIS GAME IS GREAT. LINK 
 I LONG TO THE DAY WE'LL MEET AGAIN! THIS GAME IS GREAT. LINK I LONG TO THE DAY WE'LL MEET AGAIN! THIS 
 GAME IS GREAT. LINK I LONG TO THE DAY WE'LL MEET AGAIN! THIS GAME IS GREAT. LINK I LONG TO THE DAY 
 WE'LL MEET AGAIN! THIS GAME IS GREAT. LINK I LONG TO THE DAY WE'LL MEET AGAIN! THIS GAME IS GREAT. LINK 
 I LONG TO THE DAY WE'LL MEET AGAIN! THIS GAME IS GREAT. LINK I LONG TO THE DAY WE'LL MEET AGAIN! THIS 
 GAME IS GREAT. LINK I LONG TO THE DAY WE'LL MEET AGAIN! THIS GAME IS GREAT. LINK I LONG TO THE DAY 
 WE'LL MEET AGAIN! THIS GAME IS GREAT. LINK I LONG TO THE DAY WE'LL MEET AGAIN! THIS GAME IS GREAT. LINK 
 I LONG TO THE DAY WE'LL MEET AGAIN! THIS GAME IS GREAT. LINK I LONG TO THE DAY WE'LL MEET AGAIN! THIS 
 GAME IS GREAT. LINK I LONG TO THE DAY WE'LL MEET AGAIN! THIS GAME IS GREAT. LINK I LONG TO THE DAY 
 WE'LL MEET AGAIN! THIS GAME IS GREAT. LINK I LONG TO THE DAY WE'LL MEET AGAIN! THIS GAME IS GREAT. LINK 
 I LONG TO THE DAY WE'LL MEET AGAIN! THIS GAME IS GREAT. LINK I LONG TO THE DAY WE'LL MEET AGAIN! THIS 
 GAME IS GREAT. LINK I LONG TO THE DAY WE'LL MEET AGAIN! THIS GAME IS GREAT. LINK I LONG TO THE DAY 
 WE'LL MEET AGAIN! THIS GAME IS GREAT. LINK I LONG TO THE DAY WE'LL MEET AGAIN! THIS GAME IS GREAT. LINK 
 I LONG TO THE DAY WE'LL MEET AGAIN! THIS GAME IS GREAT. LINK I LONG TO THE DAY WE'LL MEET AGAIN! THIS 
 GAME IS GREAT. LINK I LONG TO THE DAY WE'LL MEET AGAIN! THIS GAME IS GREAT. LINK I LONG TO THE DAY 
 WE'LL MEET AGAIN! THIS GAME IS GREAT. LINK I LONG TO THE DAY WE'LL MEET AGAIN! THIS GAME IS GREAT. LINK 
 I LONG TO THE DAY WE'LL MEET AGAIN! THIS GAME IS GREAT. LINK I LONG TO THE DAY WE'LL MEET AGAIN! THIS 
 GAME IS GREAT. LINK I LONG TO THE DAY WE'LL MEET AGAIN! THIS GAME IS GREAT. LINK I LONG TO THE DAY 
 WE'LL MEET AGAIN! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Dannyp845
Rating: 9.5
Date: Feb 18, 2008 10:30 am PT
Review:  The best of the best I belive, is what it should be subtitled. The graphics are amazing for a DS 
 game and the game play is very organized. The touch screen action gives it the ultimate experience. 
 The only flaw is its difficulty level. I wish it could be a bit more challenging. The best part 
 of the whole game is the bosses. Its just plain fun to kick butt with a touch screen. My favorite 
 boss to beat is the phantom soldier that Linebeck becomes. But again, it's just too easy. In a 
 videogame you challenge yourself to beat the game at a hard level but if it's easy, what's the 
 point? If this was the first time that I had ever played Zelda, I would say "Its the best gamed 
 i ever played". Zelda has realy moved to the next level. Ever since the 2D Zelda became a hit in 
 the 1990s the fire has never really died. I can't wait for the next Zelda game to come out. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Leruw
Rating: 9.5
Date: Feb 17, 2008 5:37 pm PT
Review:  Back when I was a kid, my favorite game of the fabled SNES was Zelda: A Link to The Past. Nothing 
 hyped me up more than seeing the world change, and make me roam on another gigantic world, filled 
 with new puzzles, riddles, dungeons and secrets. That's the kind of surprise that really makes 
 you scream "Yeah!" (Well, sorta, if you're like me, that is.) .
  
  The last Zelda games made for the portables, however, have always presented the same flaw, for 
 my eyes at least. The game always seem to end much earlier then I hoped, and never really showed 
 a decent difficulty.
  
  The Legend of Zelda: Phantom Hourglass for the DS, presents you in a world similar to the Wind 
 Waker, for the Cube. There's a huge sea out there to be explored - and the bottom of the same to 
 be scavenged! - a customizable ship to be shaped into the form you want - that is if you're lucky 
 to find the right pieces. 
  
  The characters are really charismatic, as they usually are. You are presented a new fairy to be 
 your partner, and over the game you discover several mysteries regarding not only her, but everyone 
 you meet seems to have a past that is presented on the game, what is a great addition.
  
  Gameplay. Oh my. Everything is stylus-based. I do mean everything. While you are in land, you move 
 by dragging the stylus around, you attack drawing patterns, you roll drawing circles, you design 
 the route for your boomerang, and while you're at the sea, you draw the route of the boat on the 
 map, making the ship roam the drawn line, while you control it's cannon. It's simply beautiful!
 
  
  The graphics and the art is amazing as well, every bit of color is well put, the story is told 
 in a cartoony way that is really really cute.
  
  All-in-all, TLZPH is an incredible game that is really hard to find flaws except for it length. 
 Although there are many points of the game where you think it is gonna end badly, and it surprises 
 you, eventually the game ends, leaving you with a taste in the mouth, wanting for more. And if 
 you are a fan of the series however, you really are gonna miss a Hard mode, since the difficulty 
 of the games maintain itself throughout the game. That however, may be just a problem with me.
 
  
  Extremely recommended. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bloodbore8
Rating: 8
Date: Feb 15, 2008 7:00 pm PT
Review:  Finally! The Legend of Zelda: Phantom Hourglass is one of the first games to take advantage of 
 the DS's full potential! It delivers a solid experience that you might want to check out.
  
  First and foremost, the controls sound stupid at first but you will agree that it actually 
 makes the game worth playing. I don't think that I could have experienced this game any other way. 
 The game world is vast and you'll constantly be discovering new uncharted islands. The combat is 
 fun and simple. The game takes a long, long time to beat. We have another winner on our hands!
 
  
  However, there is one major flaw. Why do I have to keep visiting that Temple of the Ocean King???? 
 While I'm constantly introduced to new gameplay additions in the game, some parts get kind of repetitious 
 (you have to do parts you've already done in that one temple over and over and over again throughout 
 the course of the game) . Also, some of the puzzles difficulties are too tough and you may find 
 yourself stuck for a while in some areas.
  
  Here's an unexpected new feature: The multiplayer is a lot of fun. However, to get the most out 
 of it, play it with a friend who's sitting right next to you. It's not much fun online. A lot of 
 people drop out, there's some lag, and there are very few opponents willing to challenge you. So, 
 it's best to play people you know sitting right next to them. It's tons of fun, fantastic, "OMG! 
 THAT WAS SO CLOSE!" moments. There is also a way you can trade items with other places in the singleplayer 
 mode but it is nothing major.
  
  Regardless of whether or not you love multiplayer or singleplayer games, this is one legend that 
 is definetly worth checking out. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Ericshawn4u
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 15, 2008 3:08 pm PT
Review:  Phantom Hourglass is the best game I've played on the DS to this day. Zelda games are my favorite 
 games to play so when a new one comes out I have to try it out. At first, when the Windwaker came 
 out I felt a little uneasy about the art style, until I spent alittle time with it and fell in 
 love with the way it looked. So finally when I went out and bought a DS the first game I had to 
 get was Phantom Hourglass and it was great!!! The fun of exploring never gets old and there is 
 alot to explore in this game. All the different gadgets you use to solve puzzles with are one of 
 the game highlights. The controls are tight as well so there is no problem running around, or using 
 any tools with the stylist, and its good for right handed and left handed people too, which is 
 great because I'm lefthanded : ) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: WebmasterCR
Rating: 5.5
Date: Feb 14, 2008 2:31 pm PT
Review:  O. K., this game was fun at the begining, but then it git boring. Between each dungeon there is 
 a Puzzle. The first two are easy but it's like BAM the third is really hard I am a pretty good 
 Zelda gamer. And a lot of games come easy to me. But this one is hard. Anyway the goods thing about 
 it in that you use the stylus when you play. Like the wii remote in Twilight Princess. Like when 
 you throw your boomerang you make the path. Anyway it is a pretty good game but don't spend more 
 than 20.00$ on it. :) It depends on the type of games you like. If you like puzzle games. This 
 is the way to go. If you like action, this is not the way to go. It also ISN'T the best in the 
 series. The best will have to be Twilight Princess or Ocarina of time. So if your looking for your 
 first Zelda game this isn't the way to go. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Aang007
Rating: 8
Date: Feb 14, 2008 12:06 pm PT
Review:  Ok so like i said my first zelda game, so here i go.
  This game makes me think of puzzle, RPG , adventure and action in one game the interesting part 
 with this game is the riddles youll often find yourself solving riddles to where to dig or where 
 to go. But my favorite feature is that you can draw on your map to mark places where you need to 
 be or where a secret island is or treasure or anything and its not gimmicky you will be using it 
 alot in the game, i mean ALOT. But the bad thing about this game is the combat not much to it poke 
 with the touch screen, slash kill its not really exciting.
  
  This game could appeal to you if you where 5 or 50 its just that kinda game. Although ship travel 
 can get repetitive, once you get the cannon it will be better but it will still be a drawn out 
 process, though not as long as you would think. The ability to go back to islands is a cool one 
 also it gives you that free roam kinda feeling that fits well with this game, especially after 
 considering this world is 80% water.
  
  however there is one part about this game that is very... challenging everyone knows what im about 
 to say, THE TEMPLE OF THE OCEAN KING is so hard to get through you will have fun with it the first 
 few times but after a while it will just make you mad, after coming to it about 6 times.
  
  but all in all get zelda PH if your a fan of the series or if your looking for a deep ds game to 
 get your hands on. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Waffle_Fish
Rating: 8
Date: Feb 12, 2008 3:30 pm PT
Review:  Back when the Wind Waker was released on the game, many people criticized it and wanted a more 
 mature zelda title. Well when Twilight Princess came out, many people found that they missed the 
 "Celda" title. So Phantom Hourglass is just what those Celda fans wanted, a return to the world 
 of the Wind Waker, however, it isnt what you may of hoped for. 
  
  Phantom Hourglass takes place directly after Wind Waker, Link and Tetras pirate crew are sailing 
 the seven seas when they stumble upon a ghost ship. Tetra leaps on board and is heard screaming. 
 Link rushes onto the ship to make a rescue attempt but fails. Link is washed up on shore of a new 
 island and must save Zelda. Pretty much it is the same plot as every other Zelda title.
  
  The game plays a bit differently though. This is the first Zelda on the DS so of course, it uses 
 all touch controls. Now this may sound sort of frightening but the controls are pretty good for 
 the most part. You drag the cursor in the direction you want to got in and tap enemies to attack 
 them with your sword. You can also manually swing your sword by swipping the touch screen vertically 
 but you will rarely use this. To use tools or gadgets, you simply select them, press the icon in 
 the top right corner to take them out (or press L or R) and then use them. Most gadgets are indifferent 
 with the touch controls, some though are enhanced such as the boomerang where you draw its path. 
 
  
  Now the rest of the game is pretty much standard Zelda, you go to a dungeon, get a gadget, move 
 on to the next. Although Phantom Hourglass adds a new twist to it to give the game its biggest 
 flaw. After each dungeon you complete, you must return to the main dungeon and get the next map. 
 Every time you return though you must go through each and every floor that you went through last 
 time. Even if you solved that floor before, guess what, you gotta re-do it! You also must take 
 the role of solid snake again and avoid and sneak past invincible enemies. You can also only be 
 in the dungeon for as long as your "Phantom Hourglass" will let you, otherwise you start to rapidly 
 loose health. This is extremely aggravating and unnecessary. Not only are you on an annoying time 
 limit but you are facing an onslaught of invincible enemies. This flaw is so big that you may end 
 up putting the game down half way through, which is a shame because it deserves to be played through.
 
  
  Another flaw in the game is the sailing. Remember the tedious sailing in Wind Waker (I enjoyed 
 it when you got warp points) ? Think it could get worse? Well it does. Now you get a steam boat 
 and rather than having control with the boat, you must draw the path and wait for your boat to 
 get to your destination. The boat is so slow that you could probably get up and make a sandwhich 
 before you got there. BUT dont think you can! Nintendo has made sure that there will be plenty 
 of annoying enemies to piss you off along the way.
  
  The graphics in Phantom Hourglass are outstanding, possibly the best 3D rendering the DS has ever 
 seen. Yea sure, it is in uber low res, but you wont notice or care. The game also has the same 
 amazing character design Wind Waker have, producing some of the best and most entertaining characters 
 in the Zelda series. The game also has an immense amount of sheer style, just watch the opening, 
 you'll see what I mean. 
  
  However I must say that the dungeon design in Phantom Hourglass is dull, and unoriginal. The dungeons 
 lack diversity and character. They are way too simple, and each dungeon feels the same, with little 
 creative kinks in each one. Even the bosses at the end of the dungeons are terrible, some even 
 look like normal Zelda enemies, not bosses at all why in fact *SPOILER ALERT* The final boss is 
 just a spruced up darknaut from wind waker, honestly. *SPOILER END* 
  
  My only other complaint about the graphics are you characters faces. They seem odd to me, for example, 
 links eyes seems freaking huge. Other than that, and the dungeon design, the game looks great.
 
  
  
  The game doesnt have a very good soundtrack, it feels like the same song is played for each island 
 and the same song is played for each dungeon. I would of appreciated more of a variety. Sound effects 
 are perfectly fine though.
  
  Phantom Hourglass is roughly around 10 hours long, and once your finished with the main quest, 
 there isnt much left to do. Phantom Hourglass is about the size of four squares in wind waker, 
 meaning there are little side quests to do. There is a interesting little multiplayer, but it isnt 
 good enough to really play more than 10 or 12 times. 
  
  If you are looking for a decent DS game, pick up Phantom Hourglass, however if you are a Zelda 
 fan, be prepared to be disappointed. The game is pretty lengthy and it is fun, so anyone who has 
 a DS and the money to waste should consider The Legend of Zelda: Phantom Hourglass 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: gary18
Rating: 8.5
Date: Feb 27, 2008 6:49 am PT
Review:  When the 2-D Zelda formula was getting tired -actually is semi 3-D- Nintendo creates a whole new 
 action and adventure control scheme using only the touch-screen feature and making what it would 
 be playing another good -and maybe repetitive 2-D Zelda game- a whole new fresh and excitement 
 adventure .
  
  The control became extremely intuitive and easy after playing for a few minutes: exploring, fighting, 
 using items and doing some new tasks like writing on your maps -clues or sailing routes-, writing 
 an specific symbol on stones or tablets to open a door or pass through some place and blow or scream 
 at the mic to solve a puzzle .
  
  The game follows the colorful and nice art and graphic style from WW in a semi 3-D perspective 
 with some camera angle changes in certain key points like talking with another character or entering 
 a house and while some terrains -stony or grassy- look a bit plain some other like houses look 
 quite detailed .
  
  The new and easy control worths all the game experience while being the second installment in the 
 Pirates of the Hyrulean franchise: Death Ship's Chest . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: faden45
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 11, 2008 5:27 pm PT
Review:  this was a shortish game that put a a S (satisfactory) in DS it was fun and attentive and very 
 stratigical i recommend this to most DS players out there if you want a game that only uses the 
 stylus choose this for the sequal to Zelda windwaker i give this game an A+++++++++ without any 
 regretsi loved this game and all my friends that have the DS have this game they say to post what 
 they say and they say it was AWSOME. i have no doubts that this will revolutionize the zelda trilogy 
 and will be an exiting game for all who want a fun time with a gamesystem. i love zelda it is an 
 awsome gameplayi have no regrets on all the zelda games and will post on every new one until they 
 stop wich i hope will be never. I have one thing to say to the makers, bring it on, give me all 
 you got and make it very much harder it will be twice as good and we will be happy 
::::::

::::::
UserName: vonnie03
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 9, 2008 11:06 pm PT
Review:  Yet another great Zelda game to add to the games already released. A perfect blend of classic Zelda 
 game play and puzzles mixed with the new features made possible by the DS (such as the interactive 
 features where you must speak) . The new more advanced interactivity brought something totally different 
 yet totally enjoyable to the game. This being my first game on the DS, it was a bit of a surprise 
 to me when I had to actually interact by speaking or blowing into the mic to complete an action 
 in the game. 
  
  I wasn't very thrilled about the animation style (the squat design of the characters) , but overall 
 I can't complain. In many ways it took me right back to playing the Zelda games on the Nintendo 
 64 as a kid, especially during the boss battles. 
  
  Length wise I feel that the game is perfect. It goes back to the same idea that Ocarina Of Time 
 did, almost making you think you are finished when you have this whole new set of tasks that open 
 up for you. For once it was refreshing to play a game where you weren't exactly trying to save 
 Princess Zelda in the most traditional manner. 
  
  All in all, it's is definitely worth the money. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mariosonic91
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 8, 2008 6:19 pm PT
Review:  The Legend of Zelda: The Wind Waker changed the series with a new cartoony look and delivered a 
 fresh experice to the zelda series. The series continues once again with this enjoyable look and 
 once again with a fresh experience thanks to the touch screen.
  
  
  Story 10/10: For both newcomers and veterans, the game 1st reminds you of where link left off; 
 saving the pirate tetra who turned out to be princess zelda. You continue your journey searching 
 for treasure as you come across a ghost ship. Eager to find treasure, Tetra jumps aboard only to 
 be kidnapped as the ship starts sailing away. Your attempt to rescue her fails and you find yourself 
 washed along the shore of a small island. With the help of an elderly man and a fairy, you set 
 off on your adventure to save her. For what sounds simple can become epic as many of the characters 
 have more than what meets the eye. The new item calledThe phantom hour glass" plays an important 
 role as you seek clues to tetra's whereabouts and to gain help from the ocean king. The game delivers 
 a epic, enjoyable and sometimes humorous storyline as you sail off once again.
  
  Gameplay 10/10: To bring new life to a particular old formula, phantom hour glass is completly 
 touch screen controlled. Holding the stylus on the screen will cause link to run, slashing it will 
 make link unleash sword attacks, and tapping the screen makes weapon changing quick and easy. You 
 go around fulfilling small quest along with traveling through dungeons solving puzzles which are 
 some of the most creative that have been seen in the series. To get around you sail which is done 
 by drawing a path on the map and as you sail you can tap to fire your cannon at enemies making 
 even a long sail a smooth sail. You can even draw on your map for reminders and memorization to 
 get the secrets of place later on. You'll fight bosses, play minigames, customize your ship, the 
 whole game is played by the simple movement of you hand. Playing an adventurous game is more than 
 just easy with the stylus, its also incredibly fun.
  
  Graphics 10/10: Though the system's graphic capabilities are weaker than its gamecube predeccesor, 
 Nintendo has done a nice job having detials from the island as you sail towards it to the bosses 
 as you're farthest into a dungeon. Stylish designs and nice shaded cutscense flow through the game.
 
  
  Sound 10/10: A powerful yet freindly soundtrack gives the game its attitude during your several 
 different situations. A sound of exploration as you sail, an intense thrill as you fight the bosses, 
 an the kindness of the simple towns when you take a break from all the action. is placed at the 
 right time to create the adventerous feel that zelda games have delivered.
  
  One of the best games their is on the ds, and one of the best series that has stayed strong after 
 all these years. The legend of phatom hour glass will give you a devine, epic adventure that portable 
 systems have been wating for.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: skreetpreacha
Rating: 9.5
Date: Feb 8, 2008 6:17 pm PT
Review:  The Good: Beautful graphics for the DS. Puzzles and gameplay overall is fun to play. Touch screen 
 controls really work well. Sailing and treasure hunting is actually fun now. Dialogue is the most 
 humorous of any other Zelda. 
  
  The Bad: The story isn't as in-depth or dramatic as other Zeldas. Having to go through the Temple 
 of the Ocean King 5 times. 
  
  Review: This game plays like a mix between Link to the Past and Wind Waker. It's art style and 
 gameplay elements have alot to do with Wind Waker obviously with the whole sailing thing. Thankfully, 
 sailing is made easy, short, and fun this time around. You draw your own route on the touch screen 
 and you're good to go. The islands are MUCH closer here than compared to Wind Waker, and the shortcuts 
 are easier to access. There are periodic enemies in the sea you must shoot down with your cannon 
 also. This actually makes me interested in the sailing parts. Same with when you pull up treasure. 
 Pulling up treasure now has it's own minigame where you guide the grapple thingy (that goes down 
 to get the treasure) in between water mines and the like. 
  
  The action here is similar to Link to the Past in that the view you have on land is almost a top 
 down view like LttP, but it's obvsiouly a little more 3D here and a little closer to the action. 
 
  
  You will not use a single button in this game. EVERYTHING is controlled by the stylus, and it's 
 actually REALLY fun that way. I won't waste time with details, just trust me on it, lol. Or try 
 for yourself at one of the many displays of this game at Walmart or Gamestop. 
  
  There are only 6 dungeons technically, but there are a few other places that sure feel like dungeons 
 that have bosses at the end (like the Ghost Ship sequence) . 
  
  I'd guess the game took me about 15 hours or so to complete, maybe a little more. Which to me is 
 pretty perfect for a DS game. 
  
  The biggest flaw that people complain about is having to revisit the "Temple of the Ocean King" 
 multiple times. Yes, it's true, you have to go through this temple like 5 times, BUT... there is 
 a save point halfway through, and as you gain new inventory items (like bombs, arrows, hammer, 
 hookshot, etc) , the temple is designed so that you can take shortcuts with your next inventory 
 upgrade. Because of that and because you do go deeper in each time, it didn't feel that repetitive 
 to me. I didn't necessarily LOVE doing it over each time, but I personally didn't find it as annoying 
 as others say. It CERTAINLY is nothing compared to the sailing marathon at the end of Wind Waker 
 where you have to find all the triforce shards. 
  
  As for the story, it's VERY lighthearded and kiddy. A little too much for a Zelda game if you ask 
 me. Now Wind Waker was pretty much like that, but I still thought Wind Waker had a great story. 
 This one is much more shallow, which was the biggest flaw to me. 
  
  All in all though, this is definitely the flagship game for the DS, I'd guess the best seller, 
 and deservedly so. The puzzles you know and love from the Zelda games are all here, and while some 
 are kind of simple, most of it is medium difficulty IMHO, very similar to previous Zelda games. 
 Anyhoo, that's all for the review, cya. 
  
  PS. Oh yeah, and this game has online multiplayer on it too, where you can basically play one of 
 the minigames presented in the main game. And to play it against others is actually pretty fun, 
 though I've only done it twice so far. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MMAKing623
Rating: 9.5
Date: Feb 8, 2008 3:38 pm PT
Review:  I recieved this game for Christmas and I found myself playing it for hours on end! This is everything 
 I wanted in a "Legend of Zelda" game. The game is fun, innovative, and user friendly. The game's 
 use of the stylus only controls makes controls easy! The levels are creative, and the places are 
 colorful which puts you in a good mood when you play it. The thing that distinguishes the cell 
 shaded "Zelda's" from the original Zelda's, is the brightness. The thing I didn't like about "Ocarina 
 of Time", "Mejora's Mask", This game is more friendly. But... before I got it I thought that's what 
 was going to be its downfall. I thought the game was going to be "kiddie". Anyways if you own a 
 ds and you liked "Legend of Zelda: The Windwaker" you'll LOVE this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tikiz
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 8, 2008 1:58 pm PT
Review:  The Legend of Zelda: Phantom Hourglass is here, and all that I can say is that it was worth the 
 wait. Some people might not like the new control scheme, and some hardcore gamers might find the 
 game a bit easy, but to people like me who enjoy games that aren't extremely difficult, this game 
 is wonderful. This game is a perfect example of what the DS can really do. The graphics are so 
 3D and so beautiful, they could be mistaken for a PS2 game.
  
  The controls are pretty simple, though they're very original. You move by dragging the Stylus in 
 the direction that you want to go, and you have a few attack styles: To simply attack an enemy, 
 tap it. To swipe with your sword, rub the screen. To spin, make a circle around Link with the stylus. 
 You can also roll by tapping the edge of the screen, or by drawing circles at the edge of the screen. 
 These controls sound like they make take getting used to, but you'll actually pick them up very 
 quickly. 
  
  The puzzles are still here, and they're still a lot of fun to solve. Most of the puzzles involve 
 using your items in strange ways. Speaking of items, how about I tell you about those. You've got 
 the boomerang, which is used by making lines in the direction you want the boomerang to go. You've 
 got the hammer, which Ciela holds, and you can attack with it by tapping where you want to hit. 
 There are more items, but I won't mention them all.
  
  The storyline is pretty simple, although it's not the usual "Save Zelda from Ganondorf" plot. Actually, 
 Ganon isn't even in this game. The story is that Tetra, Link, and Tetra's pirates are on their 
 ship exploring the sea when they find the Ghost Ship. Tetra jumps aboard to explore it, and when 
 Link trys to rescue her, he falls into the water and wakes up on an island where he's found by 
 Ciela, a little fairy.
  
  The sea is obviously back, (AAAAARGH!) and it really isn't much better than before. you won't have 
 to control the ship, but that actually makes it more boring than before, because, you're just ridin' 
 waiting for something to happen, and nothing happens until you get a cannon, and it's still not 
 fun after you get it. To spice things up, you can get new parts for your ship, which can be found 
 by solving puzzles. You can also find treasures throughout the seas that will usually give you 
 Sand of Hours and ship parts.
  
  The biggest problem in the game is the annoying Temple of the Ocean King. You'll be coming back 
 here after just about every dungeon, and it gets old, because you CAN warp to certain places, but 
 it will take some of the sand from your hourglass, so you'll probably be going through the same 
 rooms over and over again, and you're timed. The first and second trips to the Temple of the Ocean 
 King aren't so bad, actually, they're quite fun, but after a while, it gets frusturating.
  
  The boss fights are without a doubt some of the best parts of the game. They're so original, 
 and they're so much fun to beat. You won't get bored of these, and you probably won't get frusturated 
 either, because before every boss, you get a portal to bring you back there if you die. Most of 
 the bosses are pretty easy, but oh well, they're fun anyway.
  
  The characters are really cute, and the levels are really pretty. The ocean doesn't feel as big 
 as in Wind Waker, but that's because it's the DS. The ocean looks pretty though. Pretty much everything 
 is either pretty or cute, even the Phantoms are cute, you know it's true. There are obviously some 
 jagged edges, but those are really the only flaws in the graphics.
  
  The game also has multiplayer, this isn't especially interesting, but it's something else to do 
 once you beat the game. Basically, you play as Link, trying to collect Force Gems to earn points, 
 and another player plays as a Phantom, trying to hit you. Once you're hit, you switch sides, and 
 so on and so on. This is a nice way to pass time if you're bored.
  
  Pros: Excellent, excellent, excellent, excellent, excellent graphics. Wonderful boss fights. Enjoyable 
 puzzles. Some of the ship parts are pretty cool. Really nice and easy to use controls. The items 
 are as cool as ever. Really cute characters. Finally, a new storyline!
  
  Cons: Not especially long, or challenging. Traveling the ocean is still boring. The Temple of the 
 Ocean King is fun at first, but it gets repetetive. You can't replay boss fights or dungeons, which 
 is a tragedy. Some not-so- fun puzzles that you've gotta solve.
  
  Phantom Hourglass is one of the best Zelda games to date, and that's saying something. The graphics, 
 sound, level design, puzzles, boss fights and controls are all excellent. Most of the cons are 
 small things that don't do much to mess up the game, except for the Ocean King's Temple. It's easy, 
 but if you're planning on going back through to get everything, then it can get challenging. Bottomline; 
 if you're looking for an awesome action/adventure game, then look no further than Phantom Hourglass. 
 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: imthe1st_crysis
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 7, 2008 10:13 pm PT
Review:  this game is it is very fun because you get to slice things up and challenging at the same time 
 because the temples require you to think about how you go through it.
  
  As most of you know this game takes place after wind waker and involves link saving tetra. The 
 graphics in this game were really well done apart from link's Gigantic head The sound was like 
 any other Zelda game it draws you in and at some points it had me yelling out as link does.
  
  The game play was done very well with the ds's touch screen how different movements did different 
 attacks.
  
  The story is ok it could have been a bit more involved but it is still a good story
  
  This 
 game is lots of fun and i would reckon about 12 and up would like this game it might be a bit hard 
 for younger gamers
  
  Great game if you like Zelda but it is easy to play if you haven't played it before
  
  Ok now 
 for my pros and cons 
  
  Pro's: Fun, Great game, Easy to pick up, Good graphics, 
  
  Con's: Link's head is to big and the story isn't that long 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Ccooldudecool
Rating: 8.5
Date: Feb 8, 2008 7:39 am PT
Review:  The Legend of Zelda: Phantom Hourglass is a sequal to Wind Walker on the DS. The game starts out 
 where tetra ( aka Zelda ) gets on the ghost ship and you hear a scream you jump on the ship and 
 you wake up with a fairy on this island. Your mission then is to go and find the ghost ship and 
 save Tetra! 
  
  Your main Alli's are:
  Cielia: A girl fairy whom has lost her memory but can protect you with tips and is talkative. Outgoing 
 person for now.
  Oshu: Cielia calls him Grandpa and he has secrets but won't tell you just yet. Mysterious person 
 for now.
  Linebeck: A guy called Linebeck who owns a ship named after himself: S. S Linebeck. He steers the 
 ship to get you place to place which is needed.
  He's a HUGE chicken though making sad exscuses not to do stuff....
  
  Fighting: The fighting 
 system is fun and unlike other games which you use the D-pad. In this game you use the pen drawing 
 circles to use a spin slash. Tapping on enemy's to slide cut. And jabbing foward.
  
  Sound: Very good and the music doesn't get annoying, I just love the ocean music which makes it 
 even more fun to sail the ocean!
  
  
  Graphics: Very good for a DS game you can see a few pixels out of place sometimes but other then 
 that the good graphics overpower it.
  
  Strategy: Okay man this game is all about strategy going through caves takes time and you might 
 need to write ideas down. This also brings me to another part you can draw on your map by pressing 
 down on the D-Pad you can start drawing, giving you hints for later! Don't expect to just run up 
 and ace the traps or switches it may take you awhile going to another area in the cave just to 
 find a clue! I really think this is one of the best strategy games out there!
  
  Enemys: Not too many so it does get easier to fight the regular type enemys but each has a special 
 type. Like-Likes are a type of monster which suck you up and there's also crows which steal some 
 rubies ( currency ) from you. Depending on what type of enemy's it also has a different strategy. 
 There's Phantoms that you cannot kill for now but they can hurt your hourglass to make your life 
 drain.
  
  Mini-Bosses: A few ( very few ) Mini-bosses each once again has a special strategy but it's interesting 
 how they look and one even has a mini- storyline with "It".
  
  Bosses: Okay yeah they take the most strategy out of everything! Such as seeing your opponenets 
 view from the top screen and trying to dodge his raid. Or having to find another person to help 
 you fight the boss. Don't excpect most of the time to just run up and kill the boss in less then 
 a minute, it takes time and once again A Lot of strategy! Boss designs are cool and i enjoy how 
 each one looks.
  
  Wi-Fi: the Wi-Fi is awesome gaining a rank if you win and points, and losing points if you lose. 
 There's only 1 battle mode in Wi-Fi but 8 courses to choose from to plan what your better at!
 
  
  Storyline: Good story that will keep you wondering through the amass twists and turns of the game.
 
  
  Length: The game time isn't that long sadly probably will only last 15 - 25 hours... But really 
 once you finish the game your kinda done with it...
  
  Sailing: Yes you get to sail on the S. S Linebeck and salvage, fight for ruppes, hit tornado's. 
 You can also customize your ship to increase it's life and coolness look.
  
  Difficulty:
  Strategy: Med- Hard
  Fighting: Easy - Med
  Overall: Med.
  
  Overall: I'm not going to say 
 it's one of the best DS games ever it is one of the better ones. Price range i would say $35 - 
 40 would be worth it. Normally comes with the rare gold DS Lite. I suggest it if you want a core 
 strategy game. If your a zelda fan then buy this. If you've never played a zelda buy this. 
  
  This was brought to you by another Ccooldudecool review taking opinions of others. To make 
 a request go to Ccooldudecool's blog and post what game you want to be reviewed or if you have 
 a comment. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: JAB991
Rating: 7.5
Date: Feb 5, 2008 4:39 pm PT
Review:  First off, this is my first review so my apologies if it sucks. I',, make it quick though. Phantom 
 Hourglass is a kick-ass game. It's more enjoyable than the great Minish Cap and at times rivals 
 some of the great console Zelda games.
  However, there's one drastic flaw that made me flat-out stop playing this game: The Temple of the 
 Ocean King. You need to go to a temple 6 times, and during my 3rd time I just got so bored and 
 fed up I stopped playing. In all, I would recommend Phantom Hourglass for its 10 hours or so of 
 awesome gameplay I got out of it, but I can't call it great based on the fact I couldn't actually 
 finish it. Absolutely great while it lasts though.
  The controls and visuals are phenomenal. PH competes among other great DS game for the title of 
 best graphics and it easily wins best controls. Again, though, these parts are great but the fact 
 I couldn't bring myself to beat it shows that some flaws are much greater than these great aspects 
 of the game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Vindictae
Rating: 8
Date: Feb 5, 2008 7:57 am PT
Review:  Being the first Zelda to appear on the DS, 'Phantom Hourglass' is bound to clash with high expectations. 
 Don't get me wrong; the game is thoroughly enjoyable. But it's still not as good as you might expect.
 
  
  The graphics, to start with. are solid. "Phantom Hourglass' features the same cartoony graphics 
 you may remember from the Gamecube's 'the Wind Waker'. This works great on the DS, since it doesn't 
 have a lot of detail, but still looks nice. The sound is great as well, with neat sound-effects 
 and music varying between 'nice' to 'awesome'. Particularly, the Ghost Ship theme was one I really 
 enjoyed.
  
  The game plays nearly completely with the stylus, leaving the buttons mostly for opening menu's. 
 You control Link's movement and attacks by clicking and dragging your stylus on the screen. Some 
 people can't get used to it, and instead want the game to go back to old-fashioned button-mashing. 
 I, on the other hand, love the new gameplay. The sword combat is great, and controlling Link is 
 smooth. The stylus gets especially fun with additional weapons, like the Boomerang, where you need 
 to draw a path for the Boomerang to go. You also get to sail around the ocean, which works smooth 
 as well. You draw a path on the seachart, and the boat will follow that path. 
  
  There are some downsides though. First off, the game is easy. It can get annoying and frustrating 
 at times, but it's never actually hard. Most enemies die fast, and most have vulnerable spots that 
 are really obvious. Also, most puzzles are quite obvious. Besides the difficulty being quite low, 
 there's also a dungeon you will visit, and revisit, and revisit, and revisit. And revisit. That 
 can get boring quite fast. 
  
  Other than those two aspects, it's all good, though. You can roam the ocean, find shipparts and 
 treasure and even trade those with a friend over WFC. Also there's a multiplayer mode, which is 
 surprisingly addictive and fun. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Vexx88
Rating: 8.5
Date: Feb 9, 2008 7:43 pm PT
Review:  Windwaker Link is back in another adventure about petrified women, hourglasses and magical metal.
 
  
  Well for a DS game it looks pretty good. I would have to say it is one of the better look DS games 
 up there with advance wars for sure. Anyway you tap or swish (?) your stylus across the screen 
 to swing your sword and at the same time you move this way also. This isn't a pure 3-d Zelda game 
 so don't expect any lock on ability. Going around in your boat is fun and actually a good amount 
 of monsters to fight. So as a Zelda game you really can't got wrong with this but, on the other 
 hand it does have it share of problems.
  
  Rolling, you know Link's rolling move right? well back in the old days that would be you A button 
 or Jump attack button but as I stated above you attack with the touch screen. So the question remains 
 how do you roll. Well you have to scratch *the game tells you tiny circles but it doesn't really 
 matter* at the tiny edges of th screen now don't get me wrong its fine at first but when your in 
 fierce battle and need a little boost it has the potential to fail. Now that wasn't the thing that 
 stopped me from giving this a 9 oh no.. Its for the fact that you have to go back to the same temple 
 6 times! Not only that it is timed! Yeah you heard me A TIMED dungeon that you have to go to SIX 
 times. I mean yeah it the main story line and all and yes you eventually find shortcuts and stuff 
 but really it makes Metroid Prime's backtracking sound like a joke. 
  
  Anyway if you can get passed the backtracking like I did then you will love this game. If you can't 
 well your in for a rough one. Then again it is still Zelda
  
  8.5/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Bandallarian
Rating: 6.5
Date: Jan 31, 2008 6:12 am PT
Review:  Let's take a look at what we have here : A brand new ''The Legend of Zelda'' game I bought last 
 week. Finished it yesterday after a *coughs* big 25 hours of gameplay. Now comrades, you must wonder 
 : How is a zelda game 25 hours long? Well, I will answer your confusion:
  
  It's simply too easy. The bosses and the temples along with the sea-traveling. There's not one 
 single piece of hard content in the game. I hear now, comrades : how did a game THAT easy lasted 
 25 hours ? Simple answer : The Ocean Temple. You have to return to that temple, I believe, correct 
 me if I'm wrong, around 5 or 6 times.
  
  Now, I would like to compare BELLUM to "The Legend Of Zelda: Ocarina of Time" 's Shadow Temple 
 boss. Either you lacked mana or arrows, and you'd end up dying. However, for Bellum, I managed 
 to kill him with 3 hearts and a half, untouched for the entire battle.
  
  The only great point of the game is most likely the feeling of adventure (the same one I got from 
 "The Legend Of Zelda : The Windwaker") when you're exploring the sea on your ship.
  
  In conclusion, I would say that this game is not worth the money (35$ bucks here) that you'll pay 
 for it, even if you are a great Zelda fan. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Death2Sports
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 30, 2008 9:46 pm PT
Review:  This game is absolutely the best nintendo DS game ive ever played. A majority of DS games dont 
 even use the stylus at all!!! (Marvel nemesis, super mario bros) This game, is all about the stylus, 
 its really fun and you'll get the hang of the controls in about 30 min. The animation of the game 
 comes from the Legend of Zelda game, WindWaker. The story in this game shares almost the same storyline. 
 A pirate named Tetra and a little boy named Link go out adventuring, and suddenly, Tetra is captured 
 by a Ghost ship, and now you how to use Link and save Tetra. There are alot of hidden areas, easter 
 eggs, minigames, and a lot of secrets. The level of puzzles you have to solve throughout the game 
 are really cool and fun, it makes you crave for the next challenge. 
  The multiplayer section is awsome, you play a game with a Phantom and Link, throwing force gems 
 into coresponding home base fields. The minigames are just awsome, especially because you get to 
 use the stylus to play them. The only real problem about the game, (well its not much of a big deal) 
 is that the entire game difficulty can be pretty easy, and getting through levels in less than 
 40 minutes is really dissapointing.
  BUT, if you will NOT be dissapointed if you buy this game, it is just exhilerating. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pspitus
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 29, 2008 1:39 pm PT
Review:  (? out of 5) Story: The Legend of Zelda: Phantom Hourglass has the same story like any other Zelda 
 game. Princess Zelda, whoops I mean Tetra, gets taken away by a ghost ship. You try to get on but 
 your clumsiness makes you fall of the boat, silly Link. You wash up on beach, meet amnesia fairy 
 Navi I mean Ciela, sorry about that they both look exactly the same, and go on a quest to save 
 Tertra with the guidance of an old man named Oshus. Pretty much your basic Princess, I mean TETRA, 
 to hero tale. The day Nintendo begins spicing up their story plots in their games is the day I 
 become President of the United States, which is most likely, NEVER! I'm not even going to bother 
 with the story for this game, if everyone judged the Zelda series based on story then every Zelda 
 game (besides Ocarina of Time) would get very bad ratings.
  
  (4.5 out of 5) Gameplay: Phantom Hourglass pushes the DS to its innovative limits. The entire game 
 is played using the touch screen, what kind of crazy game does that and does it well, I'll tell 
 you, Phantom Hourglass. The game has such simple controls yet it is very innovative. You can guide 
 your boomerang using the stylus, make tight ropes with your grappling hook, set a ridiculously 
 long course for you ship to take, but it offers even more. The game lets you use the mic to do 
 things like call someone over, or yell at a filthy stinkin cheap merchant until he makes the price 
 of your Salvage arm go down. (you will understand eventually) The dungeons/puzzles in the game 
 are not so difficult that you would want to flush your DS down the nearest toilet, but at the same 
 time it is not too easy that you would find yourself drooling on top of your DS. The boss battles 
 are fun, unique, but they can be pretty easy; good or bad, that depends on you. What is also great 
 is the note taking in Phantom Hourglass; I can't imagine playing the game without it. If you have 
 read or watched other reviews then chances are you have already heard this; the dungeon you return 
 to like 6 times is the most major flaw in the game. The dungeon plays perfectly well but the thought 
 of redoing it over, and over, and over, and over, and over again drove me mad. I would normally 
 be fine with it, but the sad truth is every time you leave the dungeon all the dreaded traps, and 
 puzzles get reseted. What would drive Nintendo to do something like that, I guess it is their ways 
 of making the game seem longer, I don't know. Aside from the dungeon of mass returning, the game 
 plays excellently.
  
  (4.5 out of 5) Graphics: The game looks beautiful, vast and vibrant, well for a DS game at least. 
 There is a great cast of characters, from treasure finding weirdoes, to good looking she pirates 
 (well not really) . Your ship is fully customizable; you can spend plenty of time scouring the islands 
 for ship parts. 
  
  (4.5 out of 5) Sound: Phantom Hourglass may not have as much catchy music like the previous games, 
 but it still stands firm with its own unique taste for in-game music. Link still screams a lot, 
 and isn't that all gamers need for sound when playing Zelda games, hahaha. The sound effects are 
 done nicely, but don't expect it to sound like something from an action packed movie. 
  
  Overall: The Legend of Zelda: Phantom Hourglass makes a worthy entry in the Zelda franchise; first 
 of its kind on the DS and hopefully it won't be the last. Now lets all put on a GREEN TUNIC!
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sharvie
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jun 21, 2008 3:18 pm PT
Review:  After the enormous commercial success of previous Zelda games, it was only a matter of time before 
 a Zelda game would be developed for Nintendo's DS. The result is a unique and immersive game that 
 will tingle your gaming senses.
  
  While The Legend of Zelda: Phantom Hourglass may seem like the same old Zelda game, there is something 
 refreshing about the game that ultimately reinvigorates the series in a brilliant way.
  
  One thing Phantom Hourglass is excellent at doing is making you feel like you are in your own adventure. 
 If you're not making charts, you're picking up clues or jotting down directions via your stylus 
 for later use. It doesn't take much to figure it out, but the illusion is impeccable, and will 
 drive you onward to the next challenge.
  
  The controls for the game have been reformatted for use on the DS. Directing Link to wherever you 
 want to go is as simple as pointing or dragging the stylus in your desired direction. Attacking 
 is as simple as jabbing and slashing your enemies on the screen. The way the controls are applied 
 across the game world to solve puzzles is enthralling in totally new ways.
  Even the most obvious things - like realising you can activate a switch around the corner by drawing 
 a line for your boomerang to travel along, or blowing into the microphone to put out candles - 
 will put a subtle smile on your face.
  
  The ability to draw on your map is a simple yet effective method to keep track of what you have 
 and haven't done, the order to pull switches, or the best path to take. When you are annotating 
 the map, it efficiently sits on the top screen so it is always on show.
  
  You would expect the game to have shrunken down graphics for the DS but this is not the case with 
 Phantom Hourglass. Despite the game's lack of graphical prowess, the simplistic animations and 
 artistic nature of the game make it outstanding to look at. It may not have graphic you would expect 
 from the PSP, but it offers something colourful and fun.
  
  You don't have to have played Wind Waker to get into Phantom Hourglass's story. The story revolves 
 around Link searching for the mysterious Ghost Ship which has kidnapped Tetra. To find the ship, 
 you must search for clues amongst the six main dungeons, which are alive with puzzles and monsters 
 to battle, along with a boss to destroy at the end of each dungeon. Each boss is different and 
 you have to be resourceful and use your weapons and environment to defeat them and progress.
  
  One of Phantom Hourglass's issue is it's almost stubborn reluctance to let you figure out the 
 quest for yourself. For experienced Zelda players the game may be a bit too easy. The clues are 
 too bold, and the fairy who guides you have a chest full of giveaway tips that it dishes out, and 
 is omnipresent through the game. The illusion of being in an adventure is quickly threatened due 
 to the suppressing need for the game to 'hold your hand' through the experience.
  
  Forgiving these flaws are easy, though, and not just because everything is such a delightful riddle, 
 but because it's just as charming and as humorous as all the other games have been. From when Link 
 extravagantly finds a new important item; from the upbeat music; to when a new fairy friend bounces 
 around you playfully. The whole mood of the game is something that would put a smile on the face 
 of even the grouchiest man.
  
  When the single player is over, you're left to a surprisingly engaging multiplayer game, where 
 a player plays as Link and collects Force Gems and the other plots the path for roaming Phantoms 
 to stop the other player. It may be in a whole other world from the superb singleplayer experience, 
 but it is a fun little add-on to occupy your time.
  
  Even among Nintendo's best games, Phantom Hourglass manages to capture your imagination and catapult 
 you into a quest that you will never forget about anytime soon. It may be over sooner than you 
 expect, but you won't wish that it had lasted longer. You'll wish more games were tuned the way 
 Phantom Hourglass is. This game wasn't made for the DS, but the DS was made for Phantom Hourglass. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: neoprime33
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 29, 2008 5:39 am PT
Review:  I beat it! Ok, turn off your dirty minds, think about video games and re-read the subject. "I beat 
 it!" means I beat The Legend of Zelda: Phantom Hourglass! Woo Hoo! It only took me 3 months to 
 do that. To put it into perspective, I bought my son the same game for Christmas. He got the game 
 at my parents Christmas Party on December 22nd and he came to me on January 5th to tell me he beat 
 it. lol ... Ahhh, the good old days of being able to play video games for hours on end!
  Any way, I do have to say, I enjoyed the game immensely. The last Zelda game I took the time to 
 beat was "A Link to the Past" for the SNES. Don't get me wrong, I have played the other games between 
 the two; however, the other games didn't give me the same feeling as I got from "A Link to the 
 Past". Zelda's "Minish Cap" came the closest; however, I still didn't feel "in to it".
  As I said before, I enjoyed "Phantom Hourglass" immensely. There where so many innovative ideas 
 happening through out the game that it kept the game fresh, but it still felt like a Zelda Game 
 to me. I thought I would get board of playing it because of the traveling on the boat like in "Wind 
 Waker", but I wasn't because I felt the game balanced it well. 
  The other aspect of the game I liked was the Multiplayer battles. I have only battled my son a 
 few times on it and I could battles others via Wi-Fi; however, I was very focused on beating the 
 game. Another kool thing that my son showed me about the game is it's tag mode. There is a spot 
 in the game that can be unlocked to open up tag mode, where you can leave some items in three boxes 
 for trading with anyone you may walk by who may have their tag mode on as well. If you have tagged 
 each other, the items you had in your 3 boxes will be traded for someone's items in their three 
 boxes.
  Well, I guess I rambled on enough about this game. Time to go find the items I missed and move 
 on to my next game to beat. :)
  If you have a Nintendo DS and tLoZ: PH, let me know. Maybe we can tag up or battle sometime. :)
 
  Timmay!
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: quatoe
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 28, 2008 1:49 pm PT
Review:  I am sure many of us had anticipated the release of a new handheld Zelda game since the Four Swords 
 Adventure/A Link To The Past was released, I know I did. The wait is finally over, the newest Zelda 
 installment is here and quite possibly one of the best Zelda's there is. 
  
  Phantom Hourglass is a direct sequel to The Windwaker, so it includes story elements, characters, 
 and pretty much the same game altogether. The only real difference here is that the game implements 
 new controls for the first time since the first 3-D Zelda was released almost 10 years ago. You 
 now use the stylus for everything, you control your attacks with it, you draw on a map where you 
 place hints, you also use to it guide your ship. Yes the sea sailing is back, but don't fret my 
 brothers and sisters, no longer do you have to constantly change direction to reach your destination, 
 you now draw a course for you ship to undertake and away you go. I know how most people hated the 
 sailing part of Windwaker (I was one of the few who enjoyed it) because it was boring and also 
 very bland, but now you can just sit back and relax while sailing, unless of course enemies shoot 
 you from a blindside. The only real problem with the stylus controls is that sometimes it may recognize 
 that you have the stylus on the touch-screen or it just may not do what you want it too, but who 
 cares, it works so well that these little complaints can't stop you from enjoying this amazingly 
 crafted game.
  
  As all DS owners know, the DS is capable of producing some sleek graphics with games like Metroid 
 Prime Hunters and New Super Mario Bros. Phantom Hourglass sets the standard for DS graphics with 
 beautifully crafted characters models and lush environments. Although there is some problems with 
 the graphics, such as how some characters look better then others, and little things like that, 
 nothing to much too really worry about. When you are sailing you will notice the sexy water and 
 far off islands, just like Windwaker the area of the game is vast and quite amazing in what the 
 designers have done. One of the best graphical differences between this and most DS games is just 
 how close they got to a GameCube title with Phantom Hourglass. It is rarely known for a company 
 to make an already beautiful almost as beautiful on a handheld, which I think is quite an unmistakable 
 feat Nintendo is known for. If you didn't like the graphics in Windwaker then you might just be 
 in a little bit of luck my friends, the graphics aren't so much cel-shaded as they are beautiful, 
 but if you loved the graphics for WW then you will definitely love this games art and world.
  
  We all know Zelda will probably never have voice-overs, but it is made up for with a beautiful 
 soundtrack, and Phantom Hourglass is no exception. Just like previous Zelda's, Nintendo has had 
 the best music team working on their games, and if you can't tell just by listening to the in-game 
 soundtrack then quit reading now. Zelda highlight (next to game play) has always been its beautiful 
 soundtrack. In Phantom Hourglass the music is still unbelievably melodic and believable, there 
 isn't one island that has the same music as another island, it is so diverse and refreshing that 
 is just makes you happy listening to it. Just like every other Zelda you know you are in for an 
 amazing ride with melodies and just about every other musical premise.
  
  Overall the game exceeds expectations, it gives the gamer what he/she wants and then some. Who 
 would've thought a tiny little handheld could have (in my opinion) the best game of 2007. Just 
 like every game in the series I enjoyed and can't stop playing it, it is addicting, fun, and most 
 of all innovative. I am amazed that they packed so much into a little cartridge, but that's Nintendo 
 for you, always pushing the envelope to bring gamers into their happy places. But thank you for 
 reading this, I hope you enjoyed this game as much as I did, so my minions of the night.. ATTACK!
 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: grndyfn19
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 27, 2008 6:47 pm PT
Review:  Recommend ---ANYONE!!! IT"S ZELDA!!!!
  
  Not Recommend ---People who absolutely hate Zelda games (shame on you)
  
  For those who don't 
 know, my favorite series of games are the Zelda games. This is the first one I'm reviewing here 
 on GameSpot, and although I'm giving it a 10, it really deserved something in between a 9.5 and 
 a 9.9. But this rounds up to 10 since GameSpot changed their reviewing system, so just to let you 
 know this isn't my favorite in the series (I'll be giving out 10's to almost every Zelda game in 
 the series in the future) . Anyway, The Legend of Zelda: Phantom Hourglass is the last game I completed 
 all the way through, and it has been really fun. It is a sequel to Wind Waker, which is another 
 classic. It doesn't matter that the sequel is on the DS, because it's still AMAZING. The entire 
 game you control Link using the stylus, which is a first in the series. At first I thought I'd 
 hate it, but it's works so naturally and is THE BEST use of the touch screen on the DS. Even though 
 nothing new was really added gameplay-wise, this new control scheme changes the way you would ordinarily 
 play it. Simple things like shooting arrows or throwing the boomerang are so new to me now because 
 of the touch controls. If anything was added gameplay-wise, it's the way you steer the boat. Instead 
 of letting the wind sail you where you need to go (as you did in Wind Waker) , you draw lines on 
 a sea map showing the course you want to take. After this, the boat takes you there automatically. 
 All you have to do is shoot monsters in the sea and avoid hazards. This is the only thing I would 
 take points off, though, because after a while it's a hassle to sail everywhere because it takes 
 a good amount of time. Other people have complained about the Temple of the Ocean King being too 
 long to navigate, but I didn't mind it all. In fact, I though it was a smart addition. It only 
 bothered me a tiny bit towards the end, but if I had to pick I would still keep it in the game. 
 So besides all this, it's a normal Zelda adventure. You explore the 8 dungeons in the game (which 
 are actually much easier than other Zelda games) , fight the awesome bosses, and collect rupees. 
 You get cool weapons and gear along the way, too. A little addition that was added are these 3 
 fairies that follow you. As you collect enough special gems (Wisdom, Power, and Courage; each for 
 the type of fairy) , you can upgrade a fairy so it gives you minor powers, such as a better defense 
 or a small flame shooting out of your sword. They don't really help that much, but they can in 
 some situations and it's still something to do as a side-quest. Mini-games are also present that 
 are addicting due to the touch controls. A shooting range is in the game, there's fishing, and 
 there is also a bombing course you do while driving your ship. You might think these are small 
 things compared to the overall grand adventure, but when you complete the entire game and all the 
 side-quests (which I have, thanks to the strategy guide) , you will be coming back to these mini-games 
 time and time again. Another new thing in the game that I forgot to mention are treasures and ship 
 parts. You can change ship parts to: 1) make it look better, and 2) to raise your ship's stamina. 
 Treasures are things you will find randomly with your Salvage Arm, and they serve no purpose other 
 than selling them for a lot of rupees. As long as you have a lot of treasure, you will have all 
 the money you need. This game is also really long, and took me HOURS to complete. It's worth every 
 minute. I don't know how to go into any more detail, but if you've played a Zelda game before, 
 you know this game will be good. There's also multi-player in the game called Battle mode, but 
 this isn't that fun at all. You can play it over Nintendo Wi-Fi if you want, but I guarantee you 
 no one will be playing it online. The only reason you might play it is because you can unlock special 
 ship parts only by completing certain tasks in Battle mode. I didn't do this, though, and i don't 
 intend to. Since when was a Zelda game multi-player, anyway (forgetting Four Swords [Adventures] 
 lol) ? So yeah, it's Zelda and it's good.
  
  Overall ---Like I said, it's Zelda and it's good. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: AlmightyMax
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jan 27, 2008 8:25 am PT
Review:  When looking for a great quality game on a Nintendo console, thoughts almost immediately turn to 
 the Zelda franchise; and with good reason. For more than twenty years, you could always count on 
 Zelda games to deliver an excellent adventuring experience with tight controls and some great head-scratching 
 puzzles. Zelda has a tendancy to stick with the familiar... maybe tweaking one or two gameplay 
 elements at the most. Phantom Hourglass, however, looks to deviate from the golden formula, and 
 manages it wonderfully.
  
  What really sets Phantom Hourglass apart from prior games in the series is the method of control; 
 as you probably know, Phantom Hourglass is controlled nearly entirely with the stylus. While there 
 may be the odd puzzle that requires you to blow or shout into the mic, and some commands are mapped 
 to the D-Pad for easy access, Phantom Hourglass is a touch-only game. Fortunately, the touch-screen 
 controls work phenomenally.
  
  Let's start with the basics: Link is controlled by holding the stylus down in the direction you 
 want him to move. Rolls are performed by scribbling small circles on the edge of the screen. Once 
 you obtain the sword, enemies can be attacked by simply tapping them and then moving your stylus 
 up and down in a slashing motion. Combat in Phantom Hourglass may seem a bit shallower and easier 
 because of this; and really, it is. But it can be accepted, or at least overlooked, when compared 
 to some of the game's more promising controls, like the item usage. This absolutely rocks; every 
 item in the game has been given a really cool touch-screen function; for example, you can now draw 
 the paths for the Boomerang and the Bomchus, which completely changes the way the game is played. 
 Other items have less awe-inspiring uses, but they still feel loads better to use than if they 
 were mapped to buttons, as per Zelda tradition.
  
  But by far the coolest use of the touch screen is the very cool ability to draw on your map; a 
 feature other DS adventure games need to make note of (no pun intended) . This leads to some excellent 
 puzzles that require you to find a certain path, make note of it, and follow it so you don't fall 
 to your certain death. You may have to find the order to pull switches, or remember a symbol for 
 a later point in the game. The map is also incredibly easy to use; one tap of the down button (or 
 B button if you're a lefty) will bring it up and let you doodle to your heart's content.
  
  The touch-only controls do take away a lot of the game's difficulty, in return for a more casual, 
 user friendly interface. This will be evident to all longtime fans; dungeons are shorter, combat 
 is simpler, and the backtracking has been greatly lessened. While some people may shudder at this 
 prospect, others will rejoice; it all depends on your personal tastes. I've never really been a 
 fan of grinding so I can accept the simpler design of Phantom Hourglass.
  
  The best part of Phantom Hourglass, however, is the great dungeon design. There are eight dungeons 
 total in the game (one which you must revisit constantly) each with their own theme, and all containing 
 some of the best Zelda puzzles in recent memory. A favorite for me is the Goron Temple, where you 
 and a young Goron who was captured work in tandem to help each other progress. While it's not the 
 first time we've played as a Goron in a Zelda game (see Majora's Mask) , it definitely is the best; 
 the co-op puzzles are simply phenomenal. Another brilliantly constructed temple takes place in 
 the ruins of the Cobble Kingdom, where Link faces numerous Indiana Jones-esque traps and progresses 
 by changing the water level. 
  
  The best dungeon of all, however, is the Temple of the Ocean King, the soul-sucking temple on Mercay 
 Island that holds numerous clues and maps to help you find the next dungeon. Early on in the game, 
 Link gets a hold of the magical Phantom Hourglass, a device that will keep the temple's curse at 
 bay as long as there is sand in the top. The dungeon plays sort of like a timed Metal Gear solid; 
 while progressing, you encounter a number of invincible enemies called Phantoms that will drain 
 your time if you are caught. You need to avoid them to progress in the dungeon, and you can distract 
 them by being noisy (hitting stuff with a sword etc.) . The puzzles themselves are extremely well 
 crafted; I might go out on a limb and say they're the best puzzles in Zelda history. The only real 
 complaint for this temple is that the puzzles do not stay solved after you exit, but this can be 
 overlooked because the new weapons you get throughout your journey open up numerous new shortcuts, 
 making the descent mostly painless.
  
  At the end of every temple, in classic Zelda fashion, you will face off against a larger-than-life 
 boss. These bouts, which usually take full advantage of the two screens, are wildly imaginative; 
 they are easily the best on the DS and some of the best bosses of any game this year. While every 
 boss is quite unique, they are all similar in that they make you use the skills you needed for 
 the dungeon as well as your new weapons in creative ways. One may face you off against a crab-like 
 monster that can turn invisible, and you'll need to figure out his location using the top-screen, 
 which is viewed first-person from the boss's perspective. The final boss bouts (which are undoubtedly 
 the best) will give you the ability to stop time and have you wait for the opportune moment to 
 do so. Like the rest of the game, however, the bosses are too easy, and while still a blast will 
 probably leave the more hardcore wanting more.
  
  After finishing the main quest (which should take around fifteen hours) , you can come back for 
 the robust Battle Mode, a 2-player game heavy on strategy but not much in the way of fighting - 
 what's up with that, anyways? Instead of the action the name implies, Battle Mode is a sort of 
 capture-the-flag game inspired by the Temple of the Ocean King which pits you against an opponent 
 in a race to capture as many Force Gems as possible. Player One controls a completely defenseless 
 Link, who scrambles around the field picking up Force Gems and returning them to his base, and 
 P2 manages three Phantoms, drawing paths for them in hopes of stopping Link from claiming the gems 
 as his own. Other little quirks, like some cool power-ups, map mechanics and more are great benefits 
 for the design, and the end result is a quite enjoyable experience. The game can be played online 
 or via local wireless, and while not being a Four Swords caliber multiplayer, it's still quite 
 entertaining and will greatly lengthen the games replay value.
  
  One thing evident about Phantom Hourglass from the get-go is that it really feels like a console 
 game, albeit one on a four-inch screen. The game offers full-motion cutscenes which bring the majestic 
 Zelda tale to life, a stellar achievement as many console games are still evolving past slideshow 
 cinemas. Hourglass also offers graphics which look simply phenomenal for a DS game, which keep 
 with the Wind Waker trend of extremely expressive characters, and beautifully animated bosses and 
 other NPCs. Despite some slightly pixilated backgrounds, this is easily the best-looking game on 
 the DS. The score is also quite good, remixing classic tunes to make them fit the extremely lighthearted 
 feel of the game. The opening tune is my favorite; a remix of all the notable tunes from Wind Waker 
 done on the flute.
  
  Phantom Hourglass is truly a game of console quality; but just happens to have been built from 
 the ground up for the DS. While longtime fans may dismiss it as too easy or casual, it can stand 
 tall with the Zelda greats as one of the best games of all time. The great touch-screen controls, 
 excellent visual design and wildly imaginative boss bouts make it an obligatory purchase for DS 
 owners, and one of the best games of the year. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Yoshi286
Rating: 4
Date: Jan 26, 2008 9:39 pm PT
Review:  First off I want to say that I love Zelda games, but not this one, why: combat is way to easy. 
 I hate stealth in zelda games, i did not mind it in wind waker but this one is a no no. to many 
 unkillable enemies. And yes i hate the fact that you need to go back into the same dungeon over, 
 and over again, and go though to same parts over and over again and again. so yea it's pretty much 
 a repetitive zelda game....... sad, and it is on a timer, so that you just hate this game even more. 
 remember people i dont hate zelda games just this one, and if you liked it then good for you, i 
 would rather eat some cheese or something.
  
  Lets look and the good parts. Drawing on the map is fun. sailing is funish, it has good graphics 
 for a ds game. changing what your boat looks like is pretty cool, ok so it was not much
  
  dont buy this game just read the story on the internet, and you will save $35 w00t. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sub-Zero_SUCKS
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jan 26, 2008 7:39 pm PT
Review:  I must admit, this is easily the most fun I've had with my DS in a while, and this game is easily 
 the best handheld, but the replay value is almost non exsistant. Once you're done here, there isn't 
 much left to see. Finding the islands not on the map can be a blast, but there isn't much to do 
 there. Please disregard all Wi-Fi gameplay, as it is almost nonexsistent. A must buy for DS owners, 
 but don't expect to be playing this one for as long as you did previous Zelda games in the series. 
 The other thing that makes this Zelda game unappreciated by me is the fact that the puzzles are 
 a little too zany, as they don't make as much sense as "fire burns ice" but more like "bounce an 
 arrow off a rope to change the course of the arrow" and makes the game feel like it could have 
 had overall better puzzles. The artsyle is amazing, the animations and characters are funny, and 
 the controls work (and work well at that!) The ending is a awful, and will leave you disappointed. 
 All in all, this is a great DS game, but it will leave you longing for something else FAST. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: frozenleaf
Rating: 7
Date: Jan 26, 2008 7:58 am PT
Review:  I was really excited about this game. I have tried playing it, but in just a few hours, I passed 
 it to my brother.
  
  It started off okay, fun, nice graphics and even exciting. The longer you play, the more I got 
 tired of playing the game. It didn't get me through the whole day, which a good game should do 
 in my point of view. 
  
  To me the game became a bit 'dull'. To me, it seemed like it was only solving puzzles, with the 
 clues you get. How could I think of closing the DS & opening it again? Basically, I wouldn't have 
 get through that part, without a walkthrough. (It made me pissed to use a walkthrough, because 
 I seriously wanted to discover it on my own, but it's impossible. Unless you got pissed & close 
 your DS by accident)
  
  Perhaps I gave up on the game to soon, we'll see if there's going to be a second attempt.
  
 
  (PS. I won't deny that the boomerang wasn't cool.) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: leafdragon88
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 25, 2008 8:05 pm PT
Review:  This game will be the perfect addition to your Zelda collection. If this is your first Zelda game, 
 it will really get you hooked on to the series. Don't rent this game, buy it. You'll probably end 
 up buying sometime so why not right away? 
  
  The storyline's pretty good, even though you don't really learn much about Bellum. The graphics 
 are probably the best on the DS that I've seen and it's the perfect combination between the 2D 
 and 3D Zelda games. The controls are rather fun. The only bad part was the Temple of the Ocean 
 King.
  
  It's work of art and it's still fun to play even after you beat it. It's definitely worth it. Despite 
 being a direct sequel, the graphics, and the fact that you're on an ocean, it's really not anything 
 like Wind Waker. It's unique and you should definitely check it out. You'll be hook on to it quickly 
 and the ship parts are fun to collect. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MaRiOmAtTiC
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 24, 2008 3:51 pm PT
Review:  This game's different cause you only use the stylus, which has pros & cons.
  It's pretty annoying at some parts of the game, like when you want to roll but you swing your sword, 
 or when you want to fight but its not sensing it. 
  
  Previous zelda games had heart pieces and is you got max hearts, you'd have 20, but here theres 
 less hearts and no heart pieces, which feels weird cause I'v been playing zelda games with these 
 things for about 8 years.
  
  Then there's the Ocean King Temple which can get really, REALLY, annoying sometimes. They should've 
 put 2 checkpoints instead of just one, because if you have to close the game or run out of battery, 
 like half of your work is gone.
  
  The game also has a little multiplayer mode you can play that's actually really fun to play with 
 a friend. It's fun because you can be Link or the guards.
  
  Even though the game has it's cons It's still an awesome zelda game that I recommend buying for 
 anyone owning a DS.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Quadraxis1809
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 24, 2008 10:16 am PT
Review:  wow i was shocked in awe when i played this game but it wasnt from the first time i played it because 
 i thrown off by the whole stylus movement control scheme but then i realized that it was actually 
 better to have it like that than to lets say move with the d-pad. it took time to get used to but 
 it was for the better, using the whole wind waker style of graphic design and the whole atmosphere 
 brings the personality to the game like the facial expressions and the wackyness the game delivers 
 at those times. but for a ds game it is long and longer is better especially for a zelda game. 
 the storyline is very good probably one of the best due to its unique approach and how its told. 
 the puzzles are good in the temples and outside as well and the game utilizes the touch screen 
 very well in most aspects of the game from using the boomerang to making routes to taking notes 
 in dungeons. the better addition to the game as well is that it has multiplayer and wifi which 
 is way cooler for a handheld zelda game giving it much more value than the game already has. the 
 boss battles are very epic the best ive seen in a handheld LOZ game and the music just brings up 
 the fight atmosphere too and the music in general throughout the game has that wind waker feel 
 to it. there are many cool things to do as well like customize your ship and trade parts and the 
 minigames are there too you just gotta look for them. overall the game is magnificent and anybody 
 who owns a ds should play it, the game is just very good probably the best zelda game ive played 
 on a handheld. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mathwizard09
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 24, 2008 2:37 am PT
Review:  Well, so much for a second DS game, but this one was awesome, but insanely hard. Too tough to do, 
 you'll ALWAYS need a FAQ for this.
  
  I can't imagine that this game hated, because it is awesome, just too tough and puzzling and requires 
 a keen eye and a fast brain, two things I'm too tired to have.
  
  It's about Tetra who was taken by a ghost ship, and a boy searches for her, and braves many perils 
 with the help of the annoying and cowardly Linebeck.
  
  This game is simply cool. I totally recommend this to anyone looking for a DS game. So much mystery 
 and logic, you'll get addicted and used to that sort of thing. 
  
  And I'm so glad this game has two files, my c. lassmate can have a whack at it, too. And I was so 
 glad he liked it.
  
  Although he himself really needed help on what to do, 
  Since he didn't have a clue. 
  And after I ate,
  I realized him liking it was fate.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Alpha789
Rating: 8
Date: Mar 6, 2008 1:08 pm PT
Review:  The good:
  
  + Great touch screen controls
  + New way to sail the sea's
  + Fun Bosses and puzzles
  + Bits of comedy acts all around
  + Ways to teleport around the sea
 
  
  The Bad:
  
  - The temple of the Ocean King sucks at first
  - Sailing the sea's regularly is ridiculously slow
  - No originality in terms of new weapons
 
  - 35 bucks is a heavy price tag for this game's length
  - Only about 18 hours of things to do
  
  
  If you are a veteran hardcore Zelda fan, chances 
 are good that you will find this game to be exactly what you expected. However if you're like me, 
 and you think Zelda has it's moments and it's problems, then you might want to listen to my opinion 
 of this game. The touch screen controls are practically flawless, they work almost perfectly. If 
 you hated sailing in this game, it is different, but better is another story. Almost all the bosses 
 in this game are great, they have noticeable boss strategies, and are fun to fight. 
  
  This game is GREAT, but the problems with this game are somewhat unforgiving. One of my friends 
 insists that there's nothing wrong with the temple of the ocean king, and my comment to that is 
 "B***S***. At first this temple is really annoying, and it was the last thing I wanted to do after 
 I beat a temple. Fortunately it does get easier as you progress through the game, and find new 
 routes to get to new places. Also getting new weapons is always fun, but when nothing is original, 
 it kinda ticks me off, even if they are integrated with touch screen controls. Now the sailing 
 is different, but I'd almost think it was better in Wind Waker. It's just way too slow most of 
 the time, and the cannon battles are more of a pain than a joy. If you know the reputation of most 
 portable games, there's a point where the fun stops, and in this circumstance, unless your a hardcore 
 gamer who likes to replay Zelda games, it will end in about 16-18 hours. Finally my last complaint 
 is the price tag, I did trade this game from a friend who didn't like it, but I would of been somewhat 
 unhappy if I had to pay 35 bucks for this game.
  
  Thank you for reading my review. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: IamaFreakygamer
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 22, 2008 9:11 am PT
Review:  ... The legend of zelda phantom hourglass...
  
  ... Now, Ive heard of lodes of zelda games but ive never ownded one so I desided to buy this one!
 
  
  ... Its amazing! one of the best games ive got because its combined with WEAK FIGHTING, ACTION and 
 ADVENTURE. Also PUZZLE and EXCITMENT!
  
  GOOD THINGS :)
  
  Good graphics,
  Good use of the touch screen,
  Amazing free roaming!,
  Great story line,
  Some puzzles you 
 encounter are cool and tricky!,
  Great boses,
  Multiplayer and wi-fi is great,
  Great replay vaue!, 
  and some games you do the same but with this your totaly doing different 
 this to do with the touch screen.
  
  BAD THINGS : ( 
  
  Can drag along somtimes, 
  but theres not much else to say!
  
  ... but at the end you know how much Link loves zelda because 
 you spent the whole game trying to save her, but that doesn't spoil the game one bit!...
  
  ... I love this game and I think you should buy it!... TY for reading my review!... 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: ezzat30
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 22, 2008 12:13 am PT
Review:  The problem is that each time you come back, you have to bust through the same levels you beat 
 the previous time around to get to the next section of the temple. Items you acquire later in the 
 game, such as bombs and the hookshot, make getting around a bit easier on subsequent visits, and 
 at the halfway mark of the game, you do get a save point that lets you bypass the first half of 
 the temple and skip down to the second half. Regardless, you'll still be replaying those later 
 levels as the game goes on. It's just one of those tedious things that feel like artificial lengthening 
 of the game more than anything else. 
  
  Nevertheless, apart from that one fault, Phantom Hourglass' main quest is a deeply engaging adventure 
 that gives you plenty to do throughout. You can probably finish the quest in about 14-15 hours 
 if you don't hunt around for all the various uncharted islands and sunken treasure chests scattered 
 about the world, but you should, because there's some neat stuff to find. 
  
  Once you're done with the game, there is actually a multiplayer mode you can check out. If you 
 ever played Pac-Man vs. on the GameCube (or, more recently, on the DS in Namco Museum DS) , this 
 mode might seem slightly familiar to you. One player controls Link, and the opponent has control 
 over several phantoms that can be guided by drawing paths for them with the stylus. Link has to 
 try to collect as many triforce shards as he can and bring them to his base, though he slows down 
 considerably while carrying shards. If a phantom reaches him, his turn is up, but if he reaches 
 a safe zone, the phantoms lose sight of him. This goes back and forth with players taking turns 
 on each side for multiple rounds, and the player with the most shards at the end wins. It's not 
 a spectacular mode by any means, but it's amusing enough as a distraction, and it can be played 
 online against players worldwide. In the few games we tried against mostly Japanese players, performance 
 seemed quite solid, with no noticeable lag. 
  
  The graphics, on the other hand, are extremely noticeable. It might be hard to believe that Nintendo 
 would be able to shrink down a game as gorgeous-looking as The Wind Waker, but that's just what 
 it has done here for the DS. Of course, some sacrifices have been made. Character models aren't 
 quite as sharp or colorful, and the world itself isn't nearly as large. But you still inhabit a 
 sizeable world, and everything in it looks spectacular. From the goofy animations and facial expressions 
 of the characters, to the beautiful scenery as you sail around the ocean, this is top-tier work 
 as far as graphics and artistic design on the DS are concerned. One thing to note is that when 
 you're wandering through islands and dungeons, everything is handled with a sort of top-down perspective, 
 not unlike some of the older Zelda games. All the characters and environments are 3D, but the fixed 
 camera angle does a great job of framing the action
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: jouvjouv
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 21, 2008 9:46 pm PT
Review:  When it was announced that it was going to be full stylus controlled, some thought it was going 
 to be frustrating to play this way. To me, this was a great idea. When I first started playing 
 it, I do admit that it was a little hard to get used to. But when I did, it was great. It's controls 
 were very well handled, and it was actually fun to play. Some riddles gave me a hard time, but 
 over time, they can be solved. I still didn't beat it, but I really like how the game is presented 
 so far. There's lots of things to do than just killing monsters. The multiplayer is fun as well, 
 but it's just a simple tag game. It's still fun to play, but some might be disappointed. Overall, 
 it's a great game. Unfortunately, there isn't very much to do after you beat the game. Other than 
 that, it's a fun game to play, and I high recommend it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dubser
Rating: 8
Date: Jan 20, 2008 7:31 pm PT
Review:  The thing i ddn't like about this game when i first played was i couldn't get used to the stylus. 
 They really want you to use it and there is no option not to use it. One part i really liked about 
 it was what the storyline of the game was although some parts probably might be a bit childish 
 overall it's a pretty good game. There are also some beautiful graphics in the game which really 
 stand out they look really good. Some parts of the game you can get easily stuck like the part 
 where you have to sail up to the second map (the cyclone part is really annoying) with linebeck. 
 The music might n ot be the correct selection in some parts but it does match up with other parts 
 to. Although after a long time you get used to using the stylus it is still pretty annoying in 
 some parts. Overall it's not a bad game but i really don't believe it is as good as some make it 
 out to be. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kbaily
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 20, 2008 11:02 am PT
Review:  Despite some of its shortcomings, I loved the Wind Waker. Compared to Twighlight Princess it did 
 have a stronger story and I liked the idea of ancient Hyrule buried beneath the sea and a pirate 
 girl being the heir to Zelda. Now The Legend of Zelda: Phantom Hourglass picks up where Wind Waker 
 left off.
  
  The game begins by recaping the events of Wind Waker. We find Link, Tetra and the Pirates sailing 
 the high seas in search of adventure. Suddenly a mysterious ghost ship appears and takes Tetra 
 away. Link tries to save her but falls into the water and washes up on a beach where he meets a 
 fairy (yep the annoying "Hey" sound is back) who offers to help Link rescue Tetra from the ghost 
 ship.
  
  First and foremost, all controls are done wtih the stylus which seems daunting at first but soon 
 becomes second nature. Sliding it along lets Link run and tapping on enemies lets you attack as 
 well as tapping on items lets you pick them up and tapping on people lets you talk to them.
  
  The stylus also is used for your items. You can draw a path with the boomerang and aim your 
 bow and arrow. It even makes a path for bombchus now so they're no longer useless deathtraps. Though 
 at times this weapon changing system can lead to cheap shots as it takes time to select the weapon 
 then draw the path. Like you're trying to aim your boomerang at a switch and enemies are attacking 
 and messing up your path. This gets to be an annoyance.
  
  One of the major Wind Waker complaints was sailing and it's back however this time instead of constantly 
 having to change the direction of the wind, you simply draw a path on the sea chart and sail in 
 your steamship. Link meets a sailor named Linebeck who's sort of a jerk but he drives the ship 
 for you. Even better, you can find and customize parts for your ship to help its stamina. Also 
 the square mileage of PH is shorter than WW so sailing to one island to the next isn't as long.
 
  
  Aside from the wonderfully designed dungeons full of puzzles and rewarding boss fights, there's 
 plenty to explore and some fun games and sidquests. There's even an island shaped like a DS. Treasure 
 Hunting takes on a new challenge as when you reach a spot and lower your salvage arm you play a 
 mini-game where you have to manuver around octorocks in order to get the treasure. You can also 
 fish but I found the controls for that impossible.
  
  The only major gripe I had with this was the same gripe you hear from everyone... The Temple of 
 the Ocean King. The final boss, a sea creature demon named Bellum resides at the bottom, but throughout 
 the game you have to constantly return here over and over again going a little further each time 
 and having to do the same puzzles over and over again. With the Phantom Hourglass, you have a set 
 amount of time to complete the area and when it runs out you start taking damage. Even worse the 
 place is populated with these annoying Phantoms that you can't defeat until near the end of the 
 game. I don't know who thought going back to the same place over and over again was fun, but hopefully 
 they were fired.
  
  Even better Phantom Hourglass breaks up the complacency that I felt with Twighlight Princess. In 
 the dungeons there's no need to search for a map or compass. You have those when you begin, nor 
 do you have to hunt around for the bottles. If you want to buy potion, just buy it. It comes in 
 a bottle already. Though despite some changes, the game still feels a bit on the easy side. Still 
 given the lack of AAA DS games in 2007, Phantom Hourglass is easily the best one and worth buying.
 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: bball_playa010
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 19, 2008 9:34 pm PT
Review:  This game is absolutely amazing, especially the use of the touch screen and its graphics. It starts 
 out almost like every Zelda game. You have to rescue someone with Link. The touch screen is mostly 
 used throughout the game to move, open treasure chests, and talk to people. The graphics are probably 
 the best for the DS.
  
  This game will instantly hook on to you. Even if you beat it, you will want to play it over and 
 over again. It never ends! There are lots of puzzles and mazes to go through. There are also some 
 very innovative islands, including the Dee Ess Island. There are many characters in the game that 
 are new to the story. The Temples are very hard at first, but you will get use to them later on. 
 Like every Zelda game though, you can't save it once you beat it. I would recommend this game to 
 all Zelda and non-Zelda players. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jtgamespot
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 19, 2008 7:57 am PT
Review:  Yes, the touchpad only action first made me question why I bought the game, but it quickly a pleasurable 
 growth that you'll feed until the very end. Give it a good 4 hours before giving up on it though 
 or you might disagree... Also, you'll have to accept the child like cartoon graphics as nostalgic 
 if you played the original Zelda like me as a youth. The microphone is used to blow out candles 
 and defeat a few enemies, which is another sign of innovation. The items, swords, and puzzles brought 
 be back to the classic zelda with a new twist. Off topic, but if they would just remake the arcade 
 game Tournament Cyberball, I'll be complete. 
  
  The fact that Nintendo is focused on fun game play in an innovative way with the Wii and DS makes 
 me wonder what they'd do with the power of a PS3 or x360. Give it a shot! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Master_Blaze
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 19, 2008 7:52 am PT
Review: The Best Game In Nintendo DS history "
  
  This is my official review ofLegend of Zelda: Phantom Hourglass ". As you can see by the above 
 sentence, I believe this is the best game in DS history. For those of you who disagree, this is 
 my reasoning:
  
  This game is not only great for veterans of the series, but it is also the best game to buy as 
 your 1st DS game. The first reason for this is that it has easy to use controls. Not only does 
 button configuration make the game easy, but touch screen functions utilize all of the DS's functions 
 like never before. Drawing weapon paths and aiming a grappling hook makes the game feel like a 
 strategic masterpiece. Always finding new weapons and new ways of battling monsters keeps the game 
 from turning into a simplekill-and-grabgame.
  
  Secondly, the story of this game is very well written and easy to understand even for those new 
 to the series. All the twists and turns of the game take your attention away from the fact the 
 story is just asave the princess" senario. The backstory and deep personalities of the characters 
 set the standard for all games. Listening to Linebeck's constant sarcasm and horrible jokes keeps 
 the gamer interested in the games dialouge and it goes smoothly alongside the storyline. In every 
 aspect, the story is perfect.
  
  And we can't forget about the amazing graphics that are unusual in a DS game. Constantly encountering 
 customized characters makes the game feel like there is never a shortage of things to do. The shading, 
 intricate designs , and unique features of the landscapes and characters makes the gamer feel like 
 they are exploring many different worlds. It's hard to concentrate on killing a boss while admiring 
 theie detailed features.
  
  And perhaps the most important aspect of the game is post game activities. Digging and diving for 
 treasure keeps the game from getting boring after the main story ends. And playing mini-games on 
 Dee Es island and others makes enjoying the game's features just that much funner. Rolling around 
 like a ball and shooting targets never gets old. And customizing Linebeck's ship makes you feel 
 very unique.
  
  In all, Phantom Hourglass makes every gamer smile. So here is my overall score:
  
  Graphics: 
 10 
  
  Controls: 10
  
  Storyline: 10
  
  Post Game Fun: 10
  
  Enjoyability: 10
  
  Overall Score 11/10 [ not a typo ]
  
  I wish you a good day and a pleasant 
 life. FIGHT ON!
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: raziellich
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 17, 2008 9:30 am PT
Review:  It took a couple of years, but NIntendo finally graced us with a new Zelda game for the DS, and 
 it was well worth the wait. 
  
  Phantom Hourglass is more or less a sequel to Windwaker for the gamecube, although you needn't 
 have played the aforementioned game to appreciate this one. The basic premise is that Tetra (Princess 
 Zelda) , is taken by the evil Ghost Ship that haunts the waters of Hyrule. Link, the everly green 
 clad warrior, jumps after her, but falls short and crashed into the ocean. You wake up on a stranged 
 island (sound familiar?) and begin your adventure to save her and ultimately rid the world of a 
 dark evil known as Bellum. 
  
  While its story is typical Zelda fare, the gameplay is not. All of your actions are done by using 
 the stylus. You tap an enemy for a targeted attack, trace out a path your boomerang (which never 
 gets old) , and even move around the world. This is all done splendidly well, and never once will 
 you wish they'd gone with a control pad scheme. Not to mention, the dungeons you'll come across 
 have some great puzzles and mazes to solve, and plenty of epic boss fights. You can also jot down 
 notes on the map, which is essential for some of the puzzles, less you have the memory of a god. 
 
  
  Of course there are a few problems with this game. First off, its easy. Very easy. Most enemies 
 can be taken down with one or two hits, and each boss fight is generally regulated to using whatever 
 shiny new weapon you found in his lair. You'll hardly ever die, and if you do, it'll probably be 
 your fault and no blame can be placed on the game or its design. Its also a much shorter Zelda 
 than you're used to. The main quest won't take you more than 10-15 hours, and the side quests are 
 hardly worth finishing, as you won't need all of those heart pieces or rupies. The dungeons in 
 particular are exceptionally short. Most won't go over half an hour, tops. In fact, usually it 
 feels like the dungeon is just heating up, and then all of the sudden you've got the boss to fight 
 and its all over. 
  
  The biggest problem is the Temple of the Ocean King. You'll visit this temple no less than six 
 times during the course of the main quest, and each time, you have to replay through the upper 
 floors to get to the lower floors where the sea chart you need is hidden. The worst part is that 
 you're on a timer, and the level is filled with unbeatable baddies that will downright annoy you. 
 Each time you have to go back, you'll feel more and more that this was merely a cheap way of extending 
 the game time. 
  
  The presentation is beautiful. Everything looks significantly better than almot any DS game out 
 there. The worlds are brightly lit, the characters are wonderfully animated, etc. The sounds are 
 also top notch, with the music being classis Zelda fare. (I. E. Awesome) 
  
  All in all, this is one of the best games on the DS and features the best overall use of the stylus. 
 While it may not hold up to some of the other, larger adventures, Phantom Hourglass is another 
 outstanding game in the Zelda lineup and a must have for any DS owner worth his or her salt. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: catmen122
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 16, 2008 9:41 am PT
Review:  the good and the bad are some what the same and the fact that the 3d game play is better then the 
 game is shelf the good and the bad 
  
  the good
  
  great story and sound the and the game play is prefect to play 
  
  the bad when playing on 
 Wi-Fi the person that you are playing with will leave the game and the fact that the game could 
 have more play people instead of just the bad guy and link then the game could be better then any 
 outer game 
  and at the point that the time people spent on playing the game is more then what than any outer 
 game on any outer system on the market today 
  and the fun you can have playing with your friends the more in idea is that the temple at the start 
 of the game is when you get all the metals to make the sword then you can go to the temple and 
 have infinite time that you can get a chest for kill the phantoms on each floor of the temple and 
 you can do it over and over so have fun playing the game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ReL0aDed
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jan 16, 2008 8:17 am PT
Review:  The Legend of Zelda is a game series that came as a breath of fresh air in the adventure genre. 
 I have beaten a whole lot of Zelda adventures, and that's namely; Links Awakening DX (GBC) , A Link 
 to the Past (GBA) , Minish Cap (GBA) , Wind Waker (NGC) , Ocarina of Time (NGC) , Twilight Princess 
 (NGC) and just moments ago Phantom Hourglass on the DS.
  
  I had very high expectations for this game, with Minish Cap and Wind Waker in mind. Both game were 
 very memorable, and featured a cartoon ish young Link. Too bad PH didn't reach up to the shoulders 
 of MC or WW, and if you ask me, theres plenty of reasons for that.
  
  What I enjoyed with the Wind Waker, was the sailing. The sailing made a comeback to PH, but it 
 weren't the same on the tiny DS displays compared to a television. Also you had to draw a line 
 were the ship was going to sail with the stylus, and thereby follow your preset course. This became 
 kind of boring, just waiting till the boat reached from point a to b on that line. Eventually some 
 annoying monsters came, and you could just point them away with the stylus.
  
  The idea of using the stylus in combat, made combat be a bit too easy if you ask me. All I had 
 to do were to click on the monsters, and they were easely defeated.
  
  The puzzles were quite frustrating at some times. Remember that Ghost Ship with all the levers 
 on on that floor? That was the dumbest puzzle I've ever solved in any Zelda game (I even had to 
 use a walkthrough to solve it) .
  
  The areas in the games were too similar, the soundtrack was nothing campared with the rest of the 
 Zelda games, and the games was very short.
  
  Don't misunderstand me, it was a fun game to play, but not a game I would ever play through again. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: i_am_game99
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jan 16, 2008 12:34 am PT
Review:  If your prepared to get pissed off, then grab your ds and insert this anooying game into ur catrige 
 slot. I tell you now that this game will take you to all the limits of your self-control. Phahtom 
 hourglass is decent game when it comes to sailing around and bashing the crap out of baddies but 
 the puzzels in this game are disterioues. The whole game is a puzzel. You will fight a couple of 
 guys sail somewhere then have to figure out using some lame clues what to do. If you can be bothered 
 printing and 100 page guide of gamefaqs or keep on going back to the computer to see what to do 
 then yes, get this game. But when you progress in the game and the puzzels get risky meaning you 
 lose health trying to go back and figure stuff out this game becomes pissy. The puzzels are unlike 
 god of wars and previoues zelda games but they use your accual brain. Near the start of the game 
 their is a part when the ask you to do something about all these adjacent and special types of 
 line. Ok. But if you arnt some maths geek but a gameguy ur stuffed.
  
  An average game all up. Annoying, but can be fun with good action and use of the touch screen. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: luke141eels
Rating: 8
Date: Jan 15, 2008 9:50 pm PT
Review:  Zelda phantom hour glass does seem like a really great game to start off with you will find the 
 controls off the game really fun and to new users of the ds you will love it anyway here is my 
 reveiw i hope you like it. It may be deriffent to other zelda LOZ ph reviews but it needs to be 
 this way.
  
  game play
  the game playing in this game is quite amazing you will find at the start no wonder this ds game 
 is ranked second but then after the temple you will find it very boning.
  
  storyline pretty good story line you will find a bit more about tetra you will find more about 
 links past in here like in windwaker it will be suprising to link fans
  
  Graphics amazing you will be suprised it looks better then excepted
  
  overall a great game 
 but needs to be a bit better because it can get boring you will get what you asked for at the start 
 but you will not be that impressed after that 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Blueguy93
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 14, 2008 4:01 pm PT
Review:  Phantom Hourglass; it's a cool and amazing game, but does it stay that way? Simple; it is very 
 addicting, and is really amazing and such.
  
  
  The graphics are the best on the DS so far, and are very cool outside of the DS world. The problem 
 with other DS games, is that, they don't have the kind of amazement that Phantom Hourglass has, 
 and therefore, are sloppy.
  
  The sound has a few flaws in it, but that shouldn't make it a disaster. In fact, it is very unique 
 and superb.
  
  The control is great, and nothing should mess it up. However, a tiny flaw is that you have to tap 
 the fairy in 1 direction to move.
  
  The camera is one of the best of the year, and therefore not a disaster. Phantom Hourglass's camera 
 is very, very, sweet, one of the flawless points of the game.
  
  This is one of the best Zelda games to date, and is very addictive in this case. Phantom Hourglass 
 is one of the first games to be a classic on the DS and stay that way. If you have a DS, and you 
 don't have this game, buy it! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: helium_flash
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 13, 2008 9:28 am PT
Review:  The Legend of Zelda: Phantom Hourglass final arrives on the DS, to much fanfare and celebration. 
 This Zelda series starts right where the Wind Waker left off. Link has joined Tetra in her pirating 
 adventures and are currently trying to hunt down Ghost Ship- a mythical cursed ship that had claimed 
 sailors lives and holds riches beyond belief. After they find the Ghost Ship, Tetra boards the 
 ship, and Link falls of the boat in his attempt to follow Tetra.
  
  Link later comes to conciousness on a foreign island. He meets up with a Spirit named Ciela, who 
 has lost her memory, and her grandfather Oshus. They decide to help Link reunite with Tetra, and 
 enlist Captain Linebeck and his ship after saving him from the Temple of the Ocean King, a cursed 
 temple that drains the life from people who don't possess the Phantom Hourglass.
  
  So Link, Ciela, and Linebeck start their adventure searching for the Ghost Ship. Upon finding the 
 ship, they discover that Tetra has been turned into a statue by the power of Bellum, the source 
 of all evil and the cause of the Ghost Ship. Their new task is to destroy the evil Bellum, rid 
 the world of the Ghost Ship, and rescue Tetra from her petrofide self.
  
  The game is entirely touch-screen controlled. This was one of the main controversies of the game 
 when it was released. Everything from swinging your sword to throwing your boomerang is done efficiently 
 and without troubles. To walk, simply press your stylis near the edge of the screen and Link will 
 follow where you touch, a al Animal Crossing. To throw your boomerang, you simple draw the path 
 for it to follow and let it fly. It will follow the path exactly as you draw. The control of your 
 boat is also doesn via touch screen. Just draw the path that you want to follow and your boat will 
 follow it exactly. To fire your cannon, just tap the enemy on the screen and it will shoot in that 
 direction.
  
  With the new controls comes many new possibilities. As in every Zelda game, the puzzles are one 
 of the main focuses in the gameplay. Puzzles now can be solved in ways never imagined before. The 
 boomerang takes front stage in many puzzles, as its ability to follow the path you draw is very 
 useful. The activation of switches and buttons is quite common. However, later in the game, you 
 begin to see reaccuring themes in puzzles, but overall they are quite enjoyable.
  At first the controls may seem a little uncomfortable and daunting, but by the end of the game 
 i began to prefer Phantom Hourglass' control scheme over the traditional Zelda control scheme.
 
  
  The graphics in Phantom Hourglass are terriffic. The game has adopted a cell shaded look, exactly 
 like its predecessor. Phantom Hourglass sports some of the best looks on the DS. Like The Wind 
 Waker, all of the characters have their own personality and show it via facial expressions. The 
 charm of Wind Waker has returned, and so has its humor as well. The anime-like humor is shown often, 
 and can bring about a smerk or a smile.
  
  Overall, the graphics are exceptional, some of the best on the DS to date.
  
  Like all Zelda 
 titles, Phantom Hourlgass brings both retro, new, and remixed sounds. There is not much to mention 
 about the sound, except that it does it's job. They are nothing exceptional, and i believe this 
 is the one area that Phantom Hourglass lacks.
  
  However, unlike most other Zelda titles, Phantom Houglass actually sports good replay value. There 
 are many items to find and Heart Pieces to collect. Somethings are only able to be achieved by 
 going through the Temple of the Ocean King multiple times after you beat the game.
  
  For the first time ever, you can have a two player battle where you race to collect the most Triforce 
 pieces. One player controls Link, and the other controls 3 Phantoms, evil beings that you mean 
 in the Temple of the Ocean King that are invulnerable to normal attacks. The player controlling 
 Link has to collect the Triforce pieces and bring the pieces back to his/her zone area. The player 
 controlling the 3 Phantoms has to try to stop Link from collecting the Triforcepieces. This is 
 done using the Touch Screen. One draws the path for the Phantom and the Phantom will follow the 
 path exactly as drawn. Once the Phantom catches Link, the round ends and the players switch roles. 
 This is also WiFi enabled, so you can play with people all over the world!
  
  After nearly 3 years, the DS finally receives a Zelda game. Many fans were hoping for a traditional 
 2D, isomentric, top-down view. Others were hoping for an Ocarina of Time remake. However, Nintendo 
 had different plans. They decided to return to the controversal cell-shaded graphics and introduce 
 a control style that noone expected. Fortunately, everything turned out fantastic, and Phantom 
 Hourglass will be remembered as an innovative, standing out title in the Zelda universe. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bill22y
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 12, 2008 10:30 am PT
Review:  legend of Zelda phantom hourglass was the best adventure game that I have ever played you are a 
 boy who is the decendent of a great hero who has saved the princess of hyrule and the legend at 
 the beginning of the game says that your friend that you are trying to rescue is the decendent 
 of that princess the princess Zelda during the first half of the game you are trying to find your 
 friend tetra (aka zelda) the quest takes you to the edges of the world in your ship that you can 
 modify so this game is one of the best games I have ever played and you shold try to get it if 
 you can it is definatly worth the money that you will spend because you cango anywhere and find 
 new and uncharted islands also the multiplayer is fun too and the varity of the wepons is amazeing 
 it is a must have game !!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: IpodHero176
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 11, 2008 8:41 pm PT
Review:  Story: The story isn't as mature as Twilight Princess, but it's still good. It takes a few years 
 after Winder Waker, starting out with link and Tetra riding the ocean, seeking adventure. They 
 soon find the legendary Phantom Ship, which takes Tetra captive after she boards it (Why would you 
 board a haunted ship by yourself? ) . Link goes in to save her, but misses the boat and falls into 
 the ocean. he winds up on a shore with a navi named Ciela, who has no memory of her past. After 
 talking to her grandfather, Oshus, you find out that Bellium, a fiend from the depths is plaguing 
 the oceans, and as always, only you have the power to stop it. The plot is done very well, despite 
 being a plot that has been done in all the other Zelda games too. I like how the game gives you 
 a recap of Wind Waker in the beginning, which is good for those who haven't played it (me) or forgot 
 what happened in the game. The characters are good too. I like Linebeck who's greedy and cowardly, 
 but caring too. I also like how he fights with Ciela on everything (literally) .
  
  Graphics: The game has the visuals of the N64, but I really didn't mind at all. It looks smoother 
 than Orcarina of Time, but not by much. I think Nintendo did a good job cel-shading the game.
 
  
  Sound: The sound was composed very well. The music fits the area you're in, and changes flawlessly. 
 The sound of clashing your sword with an opponent was done well. I like how they arranged the Legend 
 of Zelda theme in the beginning of the game, from a renaissance theme (the original theme) to a 
 sea-faring kind of theme (the new version in PH) .
  
  Gameplay: This game shines very much in this section, it'll make you blind. This game shows what 
 the DS is capable of. Everything is used with a stylus, so make sure you have one before you get 
 this game. To jab, you move your stylus in a forward motion. For a horizontal slash, you move your 
 stylus in a curved sweep. To do the Spin Attack, Link's signature, you rotate your stylus in a 
 circle motion. Evading is a lot more difficult, since you have to move your stylus to the edge 
 of the screen and do mini-circles. It's harder than it sounds, but you get use to it after awhile. 
 You will also have sea battles, while it sounds cool, it's very tiring after awhile, mainly because 
 of the difficulty of it. The game also uses the mic to blow out flames and to bargain or get people's 
 attention. The downside is that sometimes, it doesn't get what you said right, especially with 
 the bargaining thing. In battles, while wanting a horizontal slash, it will sometimes read it as 
 a jab, which will annoy you, but it might be how the player does their strokes.
  
  Let's recap
  
  Pros:
  
  + Controls are great and comfortable to the player's arm (you won't 
 get sore for a long time, if not at all) .
  + Music is composed very well
  + Story is a light-hearted ride of fun
  + Mic usage is good
  
  Cons:
  
  - Depending on 
 the player's strokes, the attacks might not be what the players wanted to do.
  - The mic might not make out the exact things you say
  - Plot isn't anything new to the Zelda 
 series
  
  Conclusion: The game is very innovative in many aspects, and has a good story to add onto the pros 
 this games have. I think the other companies that are going to put games on the DS should use this 
 game as an example on how to tap the DS' latent abilities. I recommend this to anyone with a DS. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hemadre
Rating: 6.5
Date: Nov 2, 2008 7:59 pm PT
Review:  I'll try to be fair: this is a handheld Zelda game. Looking back on Link's Awakening, the Oracle 
 games, and (mostly) Minish Cap, what we should expect is a short but somewhat satisfying adventure. 
 Phantom Hourglass, as Zelda fans (and anyone who's paying attention) know, this is a sequel to 
 Wind Waker. But where's the King of Red Lions? Yes, he's dead, but shouldn't Link be riding around 
 in the boat? Where's the Wind Waker? Why aren't Aryll or Grandma referenced to even once? Where 
 are the fantastic new creatures like the Koroks and Ritos? What we are given is not a sequel to 
 Wind Waker, but a seperate game with Link and Tetra slapped on. Is it gorgeous? Yes (for a DS game) . 
 Does it feel comfortable? Definitely. Is it a good DS game? No doubt. The real question is, is 
 it a good Zelda game?
  
  Story: This is probably the weakest portion of the game. For being advertised as a sequel to Wind 
 Waker, there are scarcely any references to the game involved in here. You'd expect, in a direct 
 sequel, for most of the characters from the past game to return. There are only three Zelda games 
 that have sequels: Zelda to Zelda II, Ocarina to Majora, and Wind Waker to this. Zelda II takes 
 place in a completely cut off part of the world, whereas Majora takes place in perhaps an alternate 
 reality/universe. In Phantom Hourglass, it's the same ocean, so there should be no reason that 
 we don't see Wind Waker characters return. The badass postman from Wind Waker is replaced by a 
 Pit fxggot wannabe, the King of Red Lions is replaced by Linebeck, a greedy yet (almost) loveable 
 xsshole and instead of Ganondorf, we get some idiot mindless monster thing that has no cause to 
 try to kill you other than "DARKNESS SHALL TAKE OVER TEH SEAS, MYEAAAH" (yes, Ganondorf's gone, 
 but I'll talk about that later) . Apparently, the story here is something having to do with Link 
 saving Tetra from a "Ghost Ship" possessed by Bellum, a big tentacley monster thing that's out 
 to kill you. When you initially try to save her after she's kidnapped, you are stranded on an island, 
 and are joined by (OH FXCK) NAVI. Though it's not Navi; just another fairy. Though for some reason, 
 it returns to the original fairy design as opposed to the more humanoid one found in Wind Waker. 
 Whether the designers felt the human-esque fairies to be a mistake or not, that's for us to ponder. 
 The titular "Phantom Hourglass" is merely a one-use item that basically stops you from being instantly 
 killed in a dungeon (until the sands run out, then you're screwed) . For the title, it's really 
 not all that important. The point is, this story is about as stupid as they get. I mean, in most 
 Zelda games you don't expect too much in the plot department, just something to explain as to WHY 
 you're running into dungeons and fighting monsters, but in this game, all that happens is some 
 old fart says "QUICK, GO HERE, FIGHT A GIANT DEMON, GET SOME SPECIAL THING, DO IT ALL OVER AGAIN". 
 It might be because this game came directly after Twilight Princess, which had a pretty damn good 
 plot, but then again, I also shouldn't be expecting too much from a DS game.
  
  Control: To be honest, I haven't played to many action-adventure games on the DS. Most of them 
 are games like Trauma Center, Phoenix Wright, and Nintendogs, games in which you don't do too much 
 fighting and running around. Some games that have done that, such as Pokemon Pearl/Diamond and 
 Harvest Moon: Rune Factory op to use the D-Pad to walk around, while the touch screen is used for 
 minor gimmicks. Looking at a game like Zelda, seeing completely touch-based controls might be a 
 little frightning. However, they work surprisingly well. You drag the stylus across the screen 
 to move, tap/swipe at enemies to kill them, and tap different areas of the screen to open different 
 menus. It feels smooth and responsive, such as allowing you to control your walking speed without 
 that frustration of pressing the D-pad JUST lightly enough so that you don't screw up. Weapons 
 like the Boomarang and Bombchus take interesting turns with these controls, making it easy to target 
 various enemies or make a specific path for a little bomb-rat to follow. Of all the touch-based 
 action adventure puzzle RPG games out there... hell, this might just be the only one, and it works 
 amazingly.
  
  Graphics: This is probably the greatest DS game graphics-wise to date. When you zoom in closer, 
 you get to see the nasty flat polygons, but from a distance, the game looks really good. Fire looks 
 explosive, water looks natural, and characters look beautiful. On a DS game, you'll usually either 
 see 2D games that people complain are too "retro" for this day an age, or 3D games that have mediocre 
 graphics, then are slammed for trying and failing. There are a few games that have had as good 
 graphics, but this one is pretty high up there. The only DS game that I think has ever had better 
 graphics would be Metroid Prime Hunters. Or Pearl/Diamond, namely cause of the flawless combo of 
 2D/3D graphics.
  
  Audio: Look at some of the Zelda games: the original's music, although 8-bit, brought forth a cult 
 following of the loveable song. Zelda II had a few select good songs, namely the one used in Smash 
 Bros. Melee. Link to the Past had some amazing music, and Ocarina and Majora both had incredible 
 soundtracks all throughout. Wind Waker, though was chock full of awful MIDI garbage. There were 
 a few good songs, but overall it had a nasty, unremarkable soundtrack. Twilight Princess made up 
 for this big time with an epic, unforgettable soundtrack. Phantom Hourglass's soundtrack, however, 
 sometimes makes you want to just turn the sound bar off. It feels like Wind Waker again, only more 
 grainy and more mind-numbing. Even new remixes of old, great songs, such as the Goron City theme, 
 have been trashed to sound like something on Spongebob. There are no unique pieces, as every boss 
 fight has the same song, as do all the dungeons and almost all the islands. The music feels very 
 stale and grotesque. As far as actual NOISES go, sure you get your sword swipes and your clangs, 
 but let's talk voices. Link, of course, will go "HAI! HAH! SHIAAA!", like he should. However, the 
 other characters don't speak whatsoever. Not even a grunt, which has come to be expected. I mean, 
 they don't talk, I can except that, but please, oh please, just give me a damn grunt! That's all 
 I want, I'm begging you!!
  
  Length: Thankfully, this game has more dungeons than Minish Cap. Though, since it only had four 
 dungeons, that's to be expected. When you play a game, you always expect there to be a number of 
 dungeons/temples/whatever you'd like to call them to make it a true adventure. Zelda is no exception, 
 although the temples they give you are short and shallow. From the first temple, we get this sad 
 feeling that the game is going to constantly continue with short, shoddy temples such as this one. 
 Sadly, anyone who guesses this would be right. Each temple can take you about twenty minutes, which 
 is sad, considering that this is where most of the action in the game is. However, piling many 
 of these temples upon eachother is Nintendo's way of making this game seem long. The one most disgusting 
 temple, the Temple of the Ocean King, is just mind-wrenching. You have to go into the temple, then 
 go back again and go deeper, then AGAIN and go even DEEPER, then this repeats AGAIN, and then yet 
 AGAIN. Sadly, each time you go down the temple, all of the traps are reset, the doors are locked, 
 the enemies return, and the anger resumes. I'll admit, it is a long game, but about three thirds 
 through the game, you'll find yourself asking "... why am I still playing this?" The answer is that 
 you want to say "I beat this game." Trust me, it's not much to boast about.
  
  Replay Value: There's really not too much to be obtained from playing a game like this again. You 
 could find the same joy in running around on a field, slashing up monsters over and over again. 
 Believe me; there is absolutely no reason you would ever want to enter the Temple of the Ocean 
 King TEN times.
  
  Multiplayer: This is the first Zelda game to have multiplayer since Four Swords, and yet this one's 
 nothing like it. I'm not saying that Four Swords was bad, but this game's multiplayer isn't too 
 shabby, especially with Wi-Fi and single-card play. Basically it's a capture the flag-esque game, 
 where you swap off between the slow, lunky phantoms, and the quick and wily Link. You try to get 
 points by stealing force gems, and between the chaos of avoiding phantoms and catching Link, the 
 multiplayer in this game is much more enjoyable than one would expect.
  
  Boss Fights: Zelda is known to have incredible boss fights, even the first one. Ocarina has Gohma, 
 the monstrous queen of spiders. Majora's Mask has Otolwa, a terrifying warrior that shoots flames. 
 Then, they upped the ante: Wind Waker had the gargantuan Gohma, which was now a towering flaming 
 centipide, and Twilight Princess had Diabalba, a beautiful and amazing beast that would make you 
 crap your pants. In Phantom Hourglass, we get a little midget magician guy who's just as tall as 
 you are. Then, we get an octorok that just flies around everywhere. Over time the bosses get better, 
 but nothing like you'd find in the console games. Hell, Rune Factory has more terrifying bosses 
 than this.
  
  Final Boss: I mentioned this before, but guess what? No Ganondorf. He's not even referenced except 
 for five minutes in the beginning, where he is merely referred to as an "evil king" in a crude 
 drawing fitting a 4 year old. Many people say "We need more enemies than Ganondorf! He's getting 
 old!" The truth is, Ganondorf is a staple to Zelda. Where would Mario be without Bowser? Where 
 would Kirby be without King Dedede? Where would Samus be without the Space Pirates, Metroids, and 
 Ridley? Ganondorf is needed to make a Zelda game truly a Zelda game. At the very least, the games 
 with Vaati at least give him a personality, while Bellum is just a mindless monster not even worth 
 mentioning in 4 years. On a related note, Tetra never once becomes Zelda; she's just Tetra always. 
 Yet another Wind Waker element that they so shrewdly emitted. I mean, how could they have a "Legend 
 of Zelda" game without Zelda?! Oh, wait... Majora. Fine, let me rephrase: how could they have a 
 Zelda game where they have Zelda in the entire game, except dressed up as someone else? It would 
 be like playing Ocarina of Time, with Zelda dressed as Shiek the entire game! But, getting back 
 on to the topic. Despite NOT being Ganondorf, Bellum is a relatively good final boss. Many stages 
 make it almost resemble Majora in a nice, nostalgic sense. Overall, it's a little dissapointing 
 to not see Ganondorf in all of his glorious polygons, but Nintendo's in charge, not the Zelda fanboys. 
 If they think it's better to have a floating octopus with a mouth for an eye as an epic finale 
 rather than the long saluted king of evil, then that's their problem.
  
  Extras: This game has a few mini-games, but nothing special. The multiplayer was a nice bonus, 
 but it's definitely lacking in the fanservice department. In fact, all of the continuation errors 
 actually DECREASE from the fanservice. But, considering it as a regular game instead of a Zelda 
 game for a moment, it has its share of mini games and side quests, so I'll give it that.
  
  Final Statement: Don't get me wrong; this is a good game. It's one of the better DS games out there. 
 But as far as DS games go, you can do better with Hunters, Pearl, and Rune Factory. And as far 
 as Zelda games go, you can DEFINTELY do better with Ocarina, Wind Waker, Majora, and Twilight Princess. 
 Mechanically, it's an amazing game. But mechanics aren't fun. If I wanted mechanics over fun, I'd 
 buy a PSP and an Xbox. This game lacks what people expect in an "epic" game series like Zelda, 
 Final Fantasy or Halo. It's plot is lacking, it's music isn't pleasing at all, and at the end, 
 you feel somewhat accomplished, but wishing you had spent your time replaying a better Zelda game. 
 The simple truth is, it's a great DS game, but a poor Zelda game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cartoonz14
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 10, 2008 4:21 pm PT
Review:  Zelda is the best game for ds now. This game use all of the ds feature ( i guess) . The difficulty 
 is just right. I LOVE IT! especially when riding the ship its 3D!!
  
  The adventages are
  1. nice story!! Good job!! :D
  2. It uses all the ds feature ( i guess) like blowing candles, 
 and it is needed to use stylus all through the game ( when walk, firing from the ship, mark the 
 maps (LOVE IT) )
  3. nice puzzle. it is not too difficult or too easy
  4. i love extra hearts. they make my game much easier :P
  and a lot more that i cannot think 
 of them right now :)
  
  The disadvantages are 
  1. too short story
  2. the picture/graphic can be better
  3. why do we have to repeat going the same dungeon (and 
 doing the same thing) for 3 times?
  4. It is hard to meet golden frog in the ocean. Sometimes when i met it i miss shot it so it jump 
 away from me.
  I think those are all of the disadvantages :)
  
  In conclusion, I am looking foward for this kind of game :D 
::::::

::::::
UserName: fpsgal
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 10, 2008 9:02 am PT
Review:  the game was great there are thing you have to get use to but other than that its a great game! 
 the story of the game was good and you want to play it for hours! I think this is one of the best 
 ds games ever! (it is the best ds game ever) :D lol there are very tricky things in the game that 
 i like one thing is you have too draw thing on the map and try to figure it out there is wi-fi 
 multi-player were you have to protected your triforse so the other player cant get it. so there 
 lots of things you can do in the game and thats why i love it so much! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DJgummy
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 8, 2008 2:41 pm PT
Review:  The DS has offered up pretty much every kind of Nintendo game before Phantom Hourglass appeared 
 except one: Zelda! The Legend of Zelda: Phantom Hourglass is the warm-welcomed Zelda game that 
 DS fans have been waiting for. Overall, the game caters to all Zelda fans giving them all the gameplay 
 elements they would expect and doesn't disapoint in the least. 
  
  The game starts out with Link and Tetra on board a ship searching for a Ghost Ship that they heard 
 was causing trouble. They finally find it and Tetra decides to hop on board and take a closer look. 
 Tetra cries out and Link tries to save her only to fall into the sea below. Link then wakes up 
 on an island and is greeted by a fairy Ciela. Here, your adventure takes off. 
  
  Your first impression will be a good one. You will be amazed both at the impressive cinematic cutscene 
 and graphics like you've never seen before on the DS. It was really amazing to see the DS pull 
 off such a cinematic and counsel-like production. The characters are full of life and expression 
 and look great. While the environments are so detailed and artistic that you won't believe that 
 you are playing on the DS. 
  
  The gameplay of this game is similar to that of 2D zelda games where the camera is set as an overhead 
 view looking down at the scene below. Although this may sound like it will make the game seem like 
 a 2D-3D hybrid, the game still retains its 3Dness. Even with the overhead view you can still tell 
 that the whole game is 3D except for a few random objects like pots and barrels. When your on your 
 ship traveling to different islands it is full 3D with an active 3D camera. The game also purposefully 
 zooms in and out while talking to various characters and in cutscenes.
  
  The control scheme may turn some people off at first (including me) but once you get used to it 
 you'll notice that how truly innovative it is. You control link by simply dragging the stylus along 
 the screen in the direction you want him to go. This works very well and gives you that feeling 
 of an analog stick like you could never experience on the DS before. Everything else (literally) 
 is controlled by either tapping or swiping on the touch screen. All of it works well but you might 
 find some trouble switching between moving and swiping to attack. You can also draw on the map 
 using the stylus. This pushes up that "adventure" feeling that zelda games give you. It is very 
 useful and is needed in a lot of the puzzles.
  
  The game is just a blast to play through and everything you have to do is all so diverse and fun. 
 The puzzles aren't the most challenging but do require you to think. Although, there are a few 
 puzzles that are just so ridiculously hard to figure out that you might as well look at the guide 
 for it. The story is quite engaging and has very colorful characters and a gripping plot. Although, 
 it isn't the best compared to other zelda games, it is the best compared to anything else the DS 
 has to offer. 
  
  The graphics in this game are quite amazing. The characters are cell-shaded but are very nice looking 
 with volumetric shading and relatively high-polygon count. They might not look as good close up 
 but look great as long as you aren't right up in their face. The environments look great and have 
 very detailed textures. Since the game has a overhead view, in gameplay everything looks high-quality 
 and not blocky or distorted. Overall, this is DS graphics at their best.
  
  If you are at all a Zelda fan or just an action adventure fan, this is a game you cannot miss.
 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: nintendofan659
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 7, 2008 1:34 pm PT
Review:  This awesome game for the ds landed in my hands a few weeks ago and i have bin playing nothing 
 but it since. The game is basically the same as every other zelda game story wise but control wise 
 its soooooo different the game is controled competety by the touch screen which is pretty awesome 
 all the buttons do is bring up menus and stuff. SO this is the direct sequel from the wind waker 
 and you and your pirate freinds are on the hunt for a ghost ship tertra goes on never to come back. 
 you jump on the ship on't make and falls into the ocean next thing you know your on some island 
 with a fairy freaking out that your knocked out. So this doesn't have ganon but well i will not 
 spoil it. So there are seven temple including the twmple of the ocean which if the game didn't 
 make you go back and do the same lvls over again i would of gave it a ten. So pick up the if you 
 have a ds or buy a ds and this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: felipegarro
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 6, 2008 11:45 am PT
Review:  
  
  the all new adventure is only for nintendo DS, it will be a sequel of wind waker, but this adventure 
 will be controlled fully with the STYLUS!!! to move, just put the stylus on the screen and leave 
 it there, link will follow the direction with the stylus so if u move the stylus UP link will go 
 UP, there are two ways of attacking: 1 tab the stylus into an enemy, this will make link automatically 
 go get it! or the second way wich is just drawing a LINE with stylus, this is good for breaking 
 barrels! the spin attack can be performed by making a circle around link, u can roll by making 
 a really small circle at the end of the screen really fast, the map is always displayed in the 
 upper screen and unlike the other zelda's we dont have the need of searching for the maps of the 
 dungeon, when we enter a dungeon or temple, the map goes included! thats not all, u can make notes 
 on your map by simple touching the "MENU" icon at the bottom of the screen, this is very usefull 
 when u need to remember the order of a puzzle or marking a place u dont want to forget, just as 
 in wind waker we will travel among varius island with a boat, in this adventure we can upgrade 
 our boat by purchasing parts at certain shops or getting them doing sidequest, if u combine pieces 
 that are of the same kind (EXAMPLE: cruiser wheels and cruiser bridge) the resistence of the boat 
 goes up, the hearts sistem of the game is great! we will get one more heart when we beat a temple, 
 or by getting them doing sidequest or even buying them!, but thats not all, we dont need four or 
 five pieces to make a new heart, we just need ONE piece (well now they are CONTAINERS, not pieces)
 
  
  the bumeran is a really cool item in here, to use it u must draw a course for it, or just making 
 a simple tap when u dont have time for making a course, the shield sistem is just like in "A LINK 
 TO THE PAST" we cant push a buttom and use the shield, the shield will automatically defend us 
 when we are not hitting, but only from the attacks it can defend like small enemies hits, sometimes 
 the upper screen turns into a puzzle solver or a second camera, for example: if we jump WAY TO 
 HIGT link will dissapear from down screen and will go to the upper screen, the game also counts 
 with mic feature, there are puzzles that must be solved with the mic, the map notes are really 
 important to because we will need to solve puzzles with it, and remember, its a ZLEDA game, u must 
 thing the imposible to complete some puzzles!
  
  the shops of the game are really usefull because sometimes there will be a rare item in their stock, 
 this includes larger quiver, bigger bomb bag, heart container, boat part or a new item called the 
 "gem" this items are like the gold skulltullas in OoT, there is a total of 60 gems in the game, 
 20 for each kind (power, wisdom, valor) when we get 10 or more gems we can upgrade or items like 
 sword and shield, but we need to get to a certain island to do this, if u get the 20 jewels u will 
 power up the item at it full capacity, now getting back at the shop things, there are two shops 
 wich are very special: the beattle boat and the "masked" boat ( i played the spanish version and 
 thats the "translation" of the boat" the "masked" boat is special, it will just appear some times 
 in the game and for a limited time, the objects on it are really valuable, the beedle boat has 
 a special feature, if we buy products here well get "points" if we reach a certain number of points 
 he will make u a special client and that will give u certain benefits, the expensier the item the 
 more the points
  
  phantom hourglass is a... well... name say it, a phantom hourglass, which allows u to become protected 
 of the sea king temple curse, the sea king temple is really large and well need to visit it multiple 
 times, the curse of this temple is that when u enter to it ur life will start to get drained, u 
 need the PH to avoid this, but the PH has sand, if it runs out of sand it will loose it effect, 
 to regain sands u just need to go outside the temple but every time u get out, the puzzles will 
 reset and u will have to make them again, in the sea king temple there are this deadly monsters 
 called especters, they are really big, dont try to hit them cuz u will not make them a thing!, 
 if they hit they will take off a heart from u, thats not much but also they take off time from 
 your hourglass, and the time is valuable
  
  the potion sistem is also new, now we dont have to pick bootles, the 2 bootles come included and 
 we can get the potions at really cheap prices, also the rupee sistem is new, we will get the money 
 a lot more easier, and the rupee limit goes up to 10000 rupees (i heard that, but personally i never 
 reached that much) there are no wallets in the game, u just have one ( thats otehr thing i havent 
 proved so far) a valuable item can cost around 1000 or 2000 rupees, theres also a new feature called 
 the treasures, we can get them at shops or from characters, they are most of the time cheap and 
 as we progress in the game we will meet a character that will buy us the treasures and boat parts, 
 most of the treasure just worth 50 rupees... but those ones cost 20 so u are earning 30 rupees, 
 however, thats not much, but some treasures will even overpass the 1000 value!
  
  the history starts when our hero is enjoying of the seas with his pirate crew, then a black and 
 dense fog cover the seas, the pirates start speaking about a ghost ship and get scared, but the 
 valorfull tetra says she dosent fear it, and speak of the great treasure thats apparently on the 
 ghost ship, the ghost ship appears and tetra jump to it, but something bad happens, link try to 
 save her by jumping to the boat as well but he missed and falled to water.... when he wakes up 
 he is in an island called mercay, he meets a fairy called ciela and they begin to talk... the rest 
 is up for u to discover it
  
  this is a great game, it worth of carrying zelda's name
  
  GAMESPOT CALIFICATION: 9.0
  
  u wont regret on playing it, it even has a multiplayer duel 
 mode, but i havent play it cuz none of my friends have DS
  
  and thats it, my ZELDA PH REVIEW, thanks for reading! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mag3stic5
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 4, 2008 10:16 pm PT
Review:  When we all think about Legend of Zelda , one or two game titles pop in our heads, but now we have 
 a reason to have another one pop in our head when we think about Zelda. Phantom Hourglass is easily 
 the best Hand-held DS game and also the best hand-held Zelda. With it's new control style, it is 
 easy to run and slash through the emerse lands of Phantom Hourglass. A lot of old enemies return 
 to this title along with some new baddies. The main Bad guy in this game a Ghost pirate named Bellum 
 , rides around on the Ghost ship which is where Tetra, or Princess Zelda is at, and through out 
 the game you will find the ship. The is only one downfall for the game and that is the Temple of 
 the Ocean King, every time you defeat a temple you must come back and go through all the levels 
 , but other then that its a solid game and I advise you to go pick it up!!!!
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: ShadowLaguna
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 3, 2008 8:00 pm PT
Review:  Introduction
  The cel-shaded and underappreciated version of The Legend of Zelda returns. But this time, Link's 
 adventure is on the Nintendo DS. The Touch Screen is used for the entire game which is actually 
 quite interesting. Even when attacking, you'll be sketching your attacks with your stylus. This 
 is a spoiler-free review so anyone who hasn't even heard of this game can read this.
  
  THE GOOD
  Touch-Screen features are used very well, it continues from the Wind Waker, a lot of 
 new funny features.
  
  THE BAD
  Dungeons are too easy to figure out, no King of Red Lions.
  
  Graphics
  Well I suppose you 
 all know how brilliant the graphics were in The Wind Waker. Because this is a DS game, they aren't 
 quite as good; But they are still a good sight. Let's just say that it's Wind Waker graphics with 
 a bit of N64 merged into it. And if memory serves, these graphics are probably some of the best 
 i've seen on the DS!
  
  Sound
  The soundtrack resurrects some of the music that came from The Wind Waker, but also has some tunes 
 added to it. The voices (like the grunts and stuff) are pretty good too, and is one of the first 
 portable Zelda games i've played that has voices (although I do recall The Minish Cap having some 
 too) . Sound effects are cool too, especially since it has that classic tone when you finish a puzzle.
 
  
  Gameplay
  If you aren't aware of what the Zelda series is (which would be surprising) , you pretty much go 
 around killing enemies, solving puzzles, tacking dungeons, beating up bosses and finding heart 
 pieces to increase your health. This Zelda formula has spread across the Zelda franchise for over 
 twenty years. And Phantom Hourglass is just like that. However, this one's unique because the gameplay 
 is slightly different. The Touch Screen is used for the entire game, no buttons required. Just 
 a stylus (and I don't recommend using your finger) . While fighting enemies, you will be sketching 
 your attacks on enemies and you can do all sorts of special attacks by drawing different types 
 of attacks. Quite clever actually! The dungeons' puzzles are quite cool too. You get cool tools 
 like the Boomerang, when you can draw your path with the stylus and click on buttons and lure small 
 keys to you. In Dungeons, you get the Phantom Hourglass. If you don't have it, the temple will 
 suck your health away. So the Phantom Hourglass gives you a time limit of about 10 minutes till 
 the temple sucks your energy. There are also safe spots which stop the Phantom Hourglass from going 
 down and it will stop guards from getting to you. Another cool new feature is the map memory function. 
 When you need to remember a certain location or a certain puzzle, you can jot it down on your map. 
 It becomes very useful, especially in dungeons. Like the other portable Zelda games plus the older 
 console Zelda games, the camera is set in a Bird's Eye View. Which I think is suitable. And I don't 
 think it would be if it were like Ocarina of Time, it would be a lot harder to play. Bosses are 
 also fun to fight, like in the previous Zelda titles. And like always, you find a Heart Container 
 once one is defeated. When you're on sea, you're not on the King of Red Lions but instead you're 
 on someone else's boat which you can upgrade. At sea, you can draw your path instead of just making 
 the wind blow in another direction, due to the lack of The Wind Waker. It's a steamboat so the 
 good news is that it can go any direction without problems. There are still obstacles at sea however 
 so you have to use your cannon to blast them away. The Legend of Zelda: Phantom Hourglass has some 
 very entertaining gameplay, despite easy locations.
  
  Character Design
  Just the regular cast from The Wind Waker, plus some new ones.
  
  Storyline
  Tetra has been 
 kidnapped by the Ghost Ship. Link has to find clues to get on the ghost ship and save the captain! 
 Not bad i'd say!!
  
  Overall
  The Legend of Zelda: Phantom Hourglass is so far the best DS game i've encountered and I recommend 
 this to all Nintendo DS owners. It may not be as good as The Wind Waker, but you're still gonna 
 have fun with Phantom Hourglass! If you have the money, i'd say you go for it!
  9/10
  
  MUST BUY!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Polychief
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 3, 2008 2:19 pm PT
Review:  The Legend of Zelda has been a long running series on both consoles and hand-helds, and each new 
 installment is a hit critic wise and commercially. The latest installment on hand-helds for the 
 series is The Legend of Zelda: Phantom Hourglass for the Nintendo DS. 
  
  The game is a direct sequel to the Gamecube's The Legend of Zelda: Wind Waker, and takes place 
 right after the event's in that game. After thwarting Ganandorf's evil plans once again and saving 
 tetra, Link is sailing with her and her pirate crew on her ship. That's when an evil Ghost Ship 
 comes and snatches off Tetra, and just as link goes to save her he is thrust into the ocean, separating 
 him from his ship. That's all the setup you need to start this latest adventure that has you sailing 
 the seven (rather, four) seas in an attempt to thwart whatever evil lies with the Ghost Ship and 
 save Tetra. 
  
  Gameplay in Phantom Hourglass is the same as it has been in every Zelda game before it, you run 
 around different lands helping out different races and people in an attempt to enter the temple 
 in that area, kill the boss inside, and collect a new piece of equipment and treasure item along 
 the way. But the way you do it in Phantom Hourglass is different than any other Zelda game, you 
 control the entire game with the stylus. 
  
  Now, you might be thinking, "Don't Zelda games use a lot of buttons?" Well, yes, they do. But Luckily, 
 Nintendo has found a way to map everything you need on the Touch Screen without cluttering the 
 screen up with UI. The bottom screen displays the game world and the top screen shows a map of 
 the island/temple/cave that you're in. Phantom Hourglass lets you swap the screens at almost any 
 time, allowing you to jot down essential clues and other things on your map or sea chart. 
  
  Since the entire game is controlled with the stylus, things might get a bit confusing, right? 
 Wrong. The game controls so intuitively that you'll wonder why all Action Adventure games on the 
 DS dont use this type of control scheme. You hold down the stylus in the direction you want Link 
 to move in, Tap jars and such to pick them up, then tap where you want to throw them, draw a line 
 to slash at enemies and even draw the path of your boomerang. 
  
  Now, with good controls and good gameplay, all that's left is good sound and graphics. Well let 
 me tell you that Phantom Hourglass excels in those departments as well. The Graphics are the best 
 on the DS and they show what the system can do. They are cell-shaded style like the Wind Waker. 
 The character models are good for a DS game and the environments look colorful and are pretty to 
 look at. 
  
  The sound in the game is also amazing. The music ranges from the dreary music of the caves and 
 temples to the happy music of the towns, and the nostalgic music such as the old Goron theme. Sound 
 effects are also good here, from the sound of your sword clashing with an enemy shield to the ever-present 
 chime of solving a puzzle that's been in every Zelda game to date, sound effects show that nothing 
 was left out of this package.
  
  And with all these good things, its even better that the game is nice and long. 25 hours for the 
 main storyline on your first playthrough, and even more if you do all the side quests that are 
 packaged in here. Theres also mini-games and side quests to keep you busy after you finish the 
 main storyline, as well as online and local multiplayer to keep you playing long after the side 
 quests are done. 
  
  The only bad part about the game is the repetitive Ocean King's Temple that you have to revisit 
 multiple times during the whole game, and going through the same floors over and over, albeit in 
 different ways, does get tiring. But besides that this game is perfect. 
  
  All in all, The Legend of Zelda: Phantom Hourglass is an amazingly well put-together game that 
 does everything great, and falls just short of perfection, and is a must have for anyone who owns 
 a DS. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: HaggisGhillie
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 3, 2008 1:28 pm PT
Review:  My daughter got this for Christmas and I took over her DS to play it :-) The game is really fun 
 to play. The puzzles aren't too challenging and the bosses aren't too tough, but I enjoyed playing 
 virtually all of the game. There was only twice I had to resort to the walkthrough for help, otherwise 
 it was pretty straight forward. I especially enjoyed the old-school looking maps with Link's big 
 head indicating his position. The game offers a variety of tools (boomerang, shovel, grappling 
 hook, etc.) that makes traversing some of the later mazes quite enjoyable. The final boss was pretty 
 easy, but by that point I wasn't looking forward to a 2 hour boss fight. It was challenging without 
 being frustrating. I'd say the entire game was the same way, and that's why I rate it so highly. 
 I'd HIGHLY recommend the game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: -P4R4D0X-
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 3, 2008 1:07 am PT
Review:  There is only two things I can complain about with this game, and that was the method they decided 
 to use in selecting items/weapons, and the dungeons.
  
  In the middle of a battle, if you need to switch weapons for whatever reason, you are essentially 
 a sitting duck as you need to stop running to open up the weapon list and select the weapon you 
 want. In my opinion, this should have been replaced by an OoT style idea, where you set the weapons 
 to the x, y, a and b buttons. 
  
  My gripe with the dungeons is only a very, very minor one. I felt they were a bit too short and 
 straight forward. Despite that, they were fun to play, and stuck with the age old tradition of 
 Legend of Zelda games in their puzzle solving, key finding and item using ways in a good way.
 
  
  Other than that, the game is great. The story worked well, puzzles were innovative and used the 
 DS hardware inside and out, the game mechanics (other than the weapon selection) all work really 
 well. Comedic relief was also present throughout the game, which is always good to see. Also good 
 to see, your new fairy companion is still nowhere near as bad as Navi.
  
  I give it 9.5, considering its only shortcoming is a minor inconvenience. If it wasn't for that, 
 it would be the best you could expect from it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: frostyshorts
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 3, 2008 12:05 am PT
Review:  The Legend of Zelda game series has been around for a very long time, and most every game in the 
 series has been a must have. The Legend of Zelda: The Phantom Hour Glass is no exception. I was 
 skeptical about it at first, being as all of the action takes place on the touch screen, and it 
 will take a bit of time to get used to the controls. To move, you just touch the screen in the 
 direction that you wish to run, and link will follow. To attack, you simply slash the screen in 
 the direction you want to attack, or you can tap the enemy you wish to attack for a good healthy 
 jump attack. One thing that takes a bit of practice is rolling. You simply draw circles at the 
 edge of the screen, and Link will roll in that direction. Unfortunatley, he doesn't always listen 
 to this command, and that makes some tasks, such as rolling into trees, a bit of a chore. The story 
 is exactley what you would expect from the Zelda series. It takes place right after the Legend 
 of Zelda: The Windwaker, and once again, Zelda, a. k. a Tetra, is kidnapped, although this time she 
 is taken hostage by the mysterious Ghost Ship when she jumps aboard to investigate. Link of course 
 persues, but ends up on an island with nothing in his arsenal. Like i said, the bottom screen is 
 used for movement and puzzel solving, while the top screen comes in handy as a map. At any time 
 you can access your map, and draw certain landmarks on it, to remind you of your current mission, 
 or to be able to travel back to that area later on. Since this Zelda game takes place right after 
 The Windwaker, there is of course a lot of sailing action, only this time, you draw the path of 
 which you wish to sail on the bottom screen and the boat will follow it. One problem I had with 
 the game is that in the beginning, you will explore the Ocean Kings Temple to find the Phantom 
 Hourglass. What I find annoying about this temple is the fact that you will be returning here... a 
 lot, to dive deeper and deeper into the temple. This wouldn't be so bad if it wasn't for the fact 
 that you have to redo all of the puzzels, over and over again, each time to re-enter the temple, 
 and after the third time, it will begin to become a bit redundant. This aside, it is probably one 
 of the better games to come out for the Nintendo DS, and a must have for not only fans of the series, 
 but for anyone who owns a DS. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 00KevinMZ
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 2, 2008 5:41 pm PT
Review:  (This review contains spoilers) In Phantom Hourglass, Link (for all intents and purposes) , starts 
 off on a ship with Tetra (Princess Zelda) and her fellow pirates, continuing exactly where WIndwaker 
 left off. However, a mysterious ghost ship quickly results in Link finding himself lost on an island 
 and Tetra trapped in the ghost ship. Essentially, the rest of the game centers around Link's quest 
 to rescue Tetra, while traveling around the world discovering new weapons. I'll spare you the rest 
 of the story, but for the most part it is an engaging plot which contains cinematic and humorous 
 cut-scenes which serve to immerse you in the storyline while keeping the game's mood light. 
  
  First and foremost, immediately upon playing I learned the game's controls are on a touch only 
 basis, with no other alternative d-pad method available. Initially I was a little speculative as 
 to how well it would work in a zelda game, and I did hit a learning curve, but within half an hour 
 I got the hang of it. You touch on the screen where you want Link to go and he'll go in a straight 
 path to where you pointed. You can tap enemies to sword them, slash randomly with stylus for a 
 less precise approach, or draw a circle around Link for a spin attack. Drawing little circles around 
 the end of the screen in the direction you want to go produces a roll, and tapping friends or signs 
 will let you speak or interact with them. For the most part this system works just fine. Occasionally 
 the ds will have trouble interpreting your movements, but after about a half hour or so once you 
 understand what the ds wants for a certain action, it works very well. Where the touch control 
 shines is the innovative use of items. For the boomerang, you simply draw the path you want it 
 to take and it follows, same goes for the bombchu. The game also lets you write notes on the map, 
 draw symbols on doors and tablets, draw your path for the boat to follow, shoot cannon balls, and 
 more. Each is done in a very intuitive way which is fun and works absolutely great. The touch only 
 controls make for a gameplay experience as fun and immersive as any game I have played. The game 
 pokes humor about the touch-only controls by having the ghost of a fallen soldier remark his biggest 
 regret in his life was wishing for a d-pad control, but believe me, you will not spend much time 
 at all wishing for an alternative control method.
  
  From a technical and artistic aspect, the graphics in Phantom hourglass look better than any other 
 ds game I have played. The developers did an excellent job bringing the world of Zelda to life 
 with vibrant colors and clarity. The cell-shading is back and looks just as good as it did for 
 Windwaker. While I still prefer the more realistic look from twilight princess, the cell-shaded 
 world is still a pleasure to look at and explore, and it keeps the mood of the game light-hearted.
 
  
  The Soundtrack for the game, while not as good as say Ocarina of Time, is still excellent. The 
 theme played while sailing sounds satisfyingly epic, and the variation of new themes and nostalgic 
 classics make for a great listening experience. In terms of effects, everybody and everything sounds 
 exactly as they should, which is awesome. My only complaint is the theme when in dungeons and temples 
 is pretty much the same no matter which temple your in, so I got a little tired of hearing it.
 
  
  In terms of total value, Phantom Hourglass is a high value game. The story will take the average 
 gamer 10-15 hours, but wandering around the world beating side-quests could stretch the game to 
 50 hours easily. Overall the game was fairly easy, but there were three distinct moments of frustration 
 where I could not figure out what to do for the life of me. Of course when I figured it out I felt 
 really stupid because it was much simpler than anything I had been trying. I'll save you a lot 
 of time now, when you have to draw a triforce don't overlap any lines or it won't register, I spent 
 a good 30 minutes trying to draw that stupid triforce before it finally registered. With those 
 3 moments, the difficulty averages out to be just right for most gamers, combined with the lengthy 
 sidequests and freedom to explore, Hourglass is worth anyone's money.
  
  Unfortunately, the game is not perfect. There is one temple which you have to visit multiple times, 
 and it has like 12 floors or so. Every time you go there, you are timed, and you have to redo the 
 same things you did the last time. There is a checkpoint about midway through, but if you get there 
 with a bad time you'll have to redo it because time is essential in that temple. If you're familiar 
 with the darkworld from Metroid Prime 2, this temple is the equivolent, because at least for me, 
 I dreaded every time I had to go and deal with the Temple. Also some minor touch related issues 
 contribute to dragging down the game's rating. Since the movements are kind of up to the interpretation 
 of the ds, you might occasionally whiff at an enemy, and accidently jump off a cliff, or roll uncontrollably 
 when you're not trying to, and sometimes your hand will cover the screen. For the most part these 
 were non-issues but I have to account for them. 
  
  Ultimately, Phantom Hourglass stands up the best of the Zelda's (I'd say a little better than majora's 
 mask, a little worse than windwaker) , the innovative gameplay makes for an outstanding game overall. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: okami5436
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 2, 2008 2:20 pm PT
Review:  Awesome, simply.
  
  The story line for starters, is perfectly designed for a sequel of Wind Waker (GC) . LOZ: Phantom 
 Hourglass takes you in one of the most original adventure of the Zelda series. 
  
  The touch screen is the only thing used to move and controls almost all of the actions of the game. 
 There's so many different kinds of things to do, so many side quests, and so much fun to have. 
 The characters are unique along with their very own dialogue; and, the many enemies and areas are 
 astounding.
  
  Multiplayer is very fun. Two players battle against each other taking force gems from the opponent 
 or area, and carry them to their base. While you aren't the one getting gems, you control 3 phantoms 
 that try to hit Link with their swords and stop him from his goal. After, or if, hitting Link, 
 you switch sides, and the one with the most points at the end wins.
  
  Very interactive with a ton of puzzles and great use of the Mic. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Kirvee
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 2, 2008 10:42 am PT
Review:  With the current decline in decent Zelda games, some fans may question what the point is in getting 
 Phantom Hourglass. It's a direct sequel to Wind Waker, a game that was known to cause a huge divide 
 between most of the Zelda fanbase. Yet, even with this fact and its still-cartoony graphics, Phantom 
 Hourglass is actually pretty good. Saying it's the best might be going a little overboard, but 
 it's not all that bad talk makes it seem.
  
  Graphics: There's not much to say here. The graphics are basically a carbon copy of Wind Waker, 
 only smaller to fit the DS screens.
  
  Story: Phantom Hourglass has a unique story... ok it's the basic "Princess is kidnapped and you 
 have to go rescue her!" story, but it has some different twists! For one, like in Wind Waker, you 
 travel on a boat and you're hunting a ship that's simply called "The Ghost Ship" which took Tetra 
 at the start of the game. The story's rarely, if ever, confusing and you mostly know what you're 
 supposed to do next in order to continue along your quest.
  
  Gameplay: Astounding. That's the only word that can describe it. If you don't play this game for 
 the graphics or story, then you should at least play it for the gameplay! The game takes FULL advantage 
 of both screens, mainly the touch screen. Link can now move, attack, and use items ALL with the 
 touch screen! Of course, getting used to the new system of moving might take some time for those 
 D-Pad fanboys, but once you get the hang of it, the experience you get from playing goes up dramatically! 
 
  As I said above, you basically travel around on a boat for 95% of the game (the other 5% being 
 when you're on an island) , only unlike in Wind Waker where you had to rely on the wind to go anywhere, 
 Hyrule has finally figured out how to use steam engines! All you have to do is plot a course on 
 your sea charts and away you go! Just be sure to keep an eye out for sea-only baddies and dangers 
 like gigantic rocks and mines.
  Another unique feature is the ability to make marks and notes on your maps. This is vital and a 
 big help to you later on in the game, especially in a certain Dungeon that refuses to die until 
 the very end ( _ ) . It also helps you to remember certain things that you'd need specific items 
 for in order to activate them; that way you'll know which islands to return to once you get new 
 items like the Bow and Grappling Hook.
  
  Replay Value: There's 31 sunken chests to obtain, one of which is vital to the story. There are 
 a maximum of 60 gems, 20 for each of the three spirits that accompany you, to collect. Not to mention 
 three spirits to power up fully to use in battle. And of course, like all other adventure games, 
 there's something fun about exploring the wide open sea.
  
  
  All and all, Phantom Hourglass is a decent game. It shouldn't dissappoint Wind Waker fans. The 
 only thing people may hate about this game is the fact that the first Dungeon you visit in the 
 game on the island you start on NEVER dies. It's the only dungeon in the game you have to return 
 to a max of six times at different intervals in the story and each time you are forced to go through 
 EVERY floor again.... and again.... and again. Oh, and that dungeon has enemies in there that you 
 can't kill until the final visit, and even then you can only kill them in the most under-handed 
 way possible... yeah... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Gamerreviewer
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 1, 2008 1:49 pm PT
Review:  Legend of Zelda Phantom Hourglass is one of the best nintendo DS games that I have played so far. 
 I had no problems with the game play and the puzzels. Ive heard from most people that going back 
 to the temple of the ocean king is annoying but that doesnt really bother me because you can go 
 back to a certian location of the temple later in the game which saves alot of time but it deducts 
 you time from the Hourglass just to make it fair and possible to get through to the goal point 
 in time. Also you can remeber how you solved the puzzel to open certian doors to make it easier 
 and faster only if you can remeber how you solved it. The bosse challenges are the best part of 
 the game except for the "Goro" boss and the final fight against bellum. The use of tools in the 
 game is phenominal and cleaver use ideas for the puzzels.
  
  The controls between the Goro character and Zelda was a little difficult and the Goro's ability 
 to run/roll was hard to control. On the last boss the sword fight gets a little difficult also 
 but it turned out to be really simple for me once I figured out how to fight bellum. 
  
  You obtain about 6 different tools to help get you through the dungeon or to defeat enemies and 
 it makes life alot easier once you figure out how and what to use them on. Some of the tools are 
 used to kill specific enemies and to help solve a puzzel or a clue. Last , There are some riddles 
 that take some amount of time to solve but if you have the patience then its possible to solve.
 
  
  This game has earned a perfect ten for its story, graphics, and gameplay.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Zeldafan2121
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 1, 2008 11:30 am PT
Review:  Nintendo's Legend of Zelda: Phantom Hourglass was THE best DS game that there was, if I remember 
 correctly it was rated the best DS game as well. It has all of the humor and weaponry that the 
 other Zelda games became famous for, and it keeps the fun cartoony graphics that we loved in Wind 
 Waker. If the graphics for either of these games were changed to the ones in TP, the games wouldn't 
 be played as fun. It wouldn't make much sense without the graphics. Anyway besides that the game 
 play was amazing and I was able to stay up at night and play the game until I fainted from exhaustion. 
 The game took be about 14 hours of actual play to beat, which is outstanding to most of the DS 
 games that are out there. If you get a DS, or if you already have one, then be sure to get this 
 "must have" game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Ztoky
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 1, 2008 5:58 am PT
Review:  With personal I mean that in this game you'll get to use your stylus all the time and also get 
 to blow out lights with your DS mic and it really makes a more personal connection to the character 
 and the gamer in my opinion. This one of the shortest Zelda game in series but I took my time and 
 explored the seas alot and did the mini games and so on so it really took me about 20 hours to 
 complete or more so it's really worth playing. It's the sequel to Wind waker and the story is really 
 neat and classic. This is the only Zelda game that I can accept that Ganondorf is not the last 
 boss. (In Minish Cap I hated it when you didn't meet Ganondorf :S.)
  
  Main Review!
  
  Gameplay: Ok as the graphic in Wind Waker it was all the same with the controller, I HATED IT!!!! 
 It was so frustrating to get the hang of it. But after hours of playing I truly thought the new 
 gameplay was really genious but still the controller had some weird glitches. It was hard to do 
 the somersault that is one of the things I always do in Zelda games but you didn't think about 
 later on. Link slashed with his sword sometimes when you were just running and that was kinda of 
 annoying. But it's all ok and the bosses in the game is all the funniest bosses ever in a game, 
 especially the last boss, LOVE IT!!!!!
  
  Graphic: The same kind of graphic as Super Mario 64 DS, but still it's the best graphic you can 
 make on DS games 'cause some parts of the game when you meet e. t. c. a big boss it lags when it 
 comes alot of things on the screen but it's noting major but still they've pushed the graphic to 
 the very limit and that's good-looking for DS then I suppose.
  
  Sound: Well I'm not fond with the DS sound but if you put in headphones it will be much better 
 and it's the same kinda Zelda sound effects as you usually hear. The only thing was the music, 
 I didn't really get stuck in any nice Zelda songs as I usually do well one song when you were on 
 seas that was pretty nice to listen to. But still there was not any super nice songs but it didn't 
 bother me 'cause I was so in the game :) .
  
  Environment: The same environment as all Zelda games, seas and the nice grass and hills and you 
 know all that Zelda environment, aah what the heck you understand :P.
  
  Glitches: Yeah as I wrote above, the stylus controller can be a bit glitchy but it's nothing major, 
 but that's the only glitch in the game nothing els in what I saw well there was some walls that 
 came up on surface of the sea that you needed to jump over with the boat and you could jump right 
 through them and not get hurt but it was nothing major about that aswell.
  
  Difficulty: Really easy acctualy, the bosses was really easy aswell but the last bosses was kinda 
 okey difficulty for last boss in my opinion.
  
  Value: If you're Zelda fan or really just a DS owner and love adventure games then this is really 
 your choice it will not let your down (I hope) . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ShirkDawg
Rating: 8
Date: Dec 31, 2007 3:56 pm PT
Review:  The Legend of Zelda: Phantom Hourglass features a new control style, similar to Twilight Princess, 
 which was released a year ago. Unlike Twilight Princess, the stylus control doesn't make for a 
 better Zelda. Moving Link is smooth, but it feels like you lose the precision control experienced 
 in previous Zelda games. Certain maneuvers like the roll are difficult to pull off. Luckily, these 
 moves aren't a prominent feature of the game, so it doesn't have a huge affect on gameplay. The 
 stylus does benefit Zelda in some ways, however. All the items, while familiar Zelda fair, control 
 brilliantly with the stylus. For example, not only can you throw the boomerang in this Zelda, but 
 you can control the exact path it takes, and hit multiple targets.
  
  Phantom Hourglass is my least favorite Zelda game in years, but it still has enough enjoyable content 
 to make it worth playing through. The parts of the game that irritated me most were the sea voyages, 
 and a dungeon that you must play through over and over on a time limit. Although controlling a 
 ship gives you a sense of freedom and adventure that Zelda is famous for, the voyages are far too 
 long and mundane. A common complaint with this game's prequel, the Wind Waker, was the long sea 
 voyages. Be prepared to sail even longer on the calm seas of Phantom Hourglass. Even more irritating 
 than these voyages, is the Temple of the Ocean King, which you must enter 6 times and repeat many 
 of the floors you've completed before. In this dungeon, you must be stealthy, solve puzzles, and 
 battle enemies, all in a time limit. If Nintendo would have included a couple extra dungeons instead 
 of this repetitive area, I would have gave the game a higher score.
  
  Despite these annoyances, Phantom Hourglass has some amazing features that make it worth a play 
 through. The dungeons and towns have enjoyable and sometimes mind boggling puzzles that utilize 
 every feature of the DS from the mic to sleep mode. Even though most items you get on your adventure 
 are from past Zelda games, many of the puzzles are unfamiliar, which is refreshing. The boss fights 
 are ingenious and more difficult than their counterparts in the console Zelda games. It is a shame, 
 only one dungeon utilizes an ally you can switch between. The boss' weak points are sometimes easy 
 to figure out, but taking down these huge beasts is another challenge.
  
  The soundtrack in Phantom Hourglass is solid, but it could have used a few more songs. Most songs 
 in the game are repeated multiple times, but at least many of them are of good quality. There are 
 no voices in Phantom Hourglass like previous Zelda games, but there are sound effects for characters 
 voices.
  
  Phantom Hourglass is a stunning DS game graphically. While it is not quite up to par with Wind 
 Waker on Gamecube, the graphics are better than the N64 Zelda games and resemble the Wind Waker 
 in a top-down style similar to past portable Zelda games. Amazingly, this game is able to run the 
 graphics engine on both screens in boss fights. Both screens are needed to tackle these massive 
 bosses.
  
  If you're a hardcore Zelda fan, I recommend playing Phantom Hourglass. If you're a casual video 
 game player, this game may be too difficult or repetitive for your tastes, because of a few factors 
 of the game I mentioned above. I'm excited to see what Nintendo does with the controls for the 
 next Zelda.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Chillinhawk
Rating: 6
Date: Dec 31, 2007 2:37 pm PT
Review:  Going back to the temple get's very annoying and you have to repeat everything you did. They don't 
 let you skip what you've already done. My recommendation is that if you have a freind that has 
 it ask him to borrow it. This game is NOT worth 30$. The combat gets old real fast too. The bosses 
 are really easy and the game is like the old Legend of Zelda. It should have been 3D like wind 
 waker. Don't belive everyone this game was alright. It makes me mad because the ds can handle 3D 
 like wind waker the graphics wont be that good but it will get the job done. And you you make a 
 route for the boat it can be difficult to manuvere it around obstacles. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: stAmbrosius
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 31, 2007 4:18 am PT
Review:  Phantom hourglass is a sequel to the gamecube's Windwaker. It has the same graphic style and much 
 of the same characters. These graphics are the best you have ever seen on the DS. The gamaplay 
 is also perfectly designed for the DS. You move Link around with the stylus and use icons in the 
 upper right corner to select items. It's very intuitive. At times you also have to blow in the 
 microphone or yell something. This may be awkward when playing this game on a bus or something.
 
  Like the windwaker there are these islands in the open ocean which you get to discover and explore. 
 On some of them are dungeons which are filled with puzzles and each of them has a endboss which 
 guards an object you have to obtain, like all Zelda's do. This time you can also use the DS' wifi 
 function to trade ship parts with friends.
  The game takes at most 15 hours to complete, but you can sick around longer if you want o collect 
 every little something. For a Zelda-game this is very short game. I didn't mind since this is a 
 portable Zelda. 
  You might consider lending it from someone who has already finished it, rather then buying it since 
 the replay-vallue is limited. If you feel like replaying a Zelda game, you'll probably choose a 
 longer console game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Excaliburslight
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 30, 2007 8:05 pm PT
Review:  Great game, graphics could be a little bit better but on the bright side great double screen boss 
 play and brings the zelda series back into the the spotlight. I wish there were more tools in the 
 game but a great start for the ds. Unlike minish cap for the gba, you can now get full hearts which 
 is harder. This is one of those games where you never get bored playing it over, and over again. Nintendo, please 
 make more! I have great names for the next 1, age's eclispe (i know it's weird but oh well) , moonlight's 
 flaw, or shadow cloak. I just thought of it on the spot.=) Oh and also Nintendo, you are great same 
 goes for square  
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: coolestkid200
Rating: 5
Date: Dec 29, 2007 4:47 am PT
Review:  Ok, i put this game on my christmas list- from reading all the good reviews about it and i did 
 like zelda on the wii but when i got it it wasnt all i thought it would be...
  
  Firstly, 
  
  its really stupid you have to keep going back to the temple of the ocean king 
 and doing the same levels ALL over again its a drag...
  
  Also, the game in its self is too hard and confusing AND YOU CANT JUMP EITHER (with the exception 
 of jumping on ledges using the stylus) 
  
  but the worst thing i find you have NO choice to use the touch screen or d pad- you have to use 
 the bloody stylus to move, fight talk to people etc, its freaking annoying i'd prefer to use d 
 pad and the other buttons (A, b, x, y) 
  
  Pros: 
  
  Its zelda!
  you can sail around in a ship and customise it.
  there are a couple of easter eggs along the 
 way.
  
  Cons:
  
  temple of the ocean king is repetive
  only three attack moves
  too hard and confusing
  you HAVE to use touch screen 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Pork_Lord
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 28, 2007 6:23 pm PT
Review:  The Legend Of Zelda: Phantom Hourglass is the first Zelda title to follow on from a predecessor, 
 proving a wonderful sequel to the Gamecube's "The Wind Waker" and an ingenious adventure game unrivaled 
 by any other on the DS market.
  
  Set after the events of The Wind Waker and set on a different chart of islands, Phantom Hourglass 
 finds our beloved green Elven warrior Link again facing a set of trials and tribulations to both 
 save the land (and sea) and yet another beloved imprisoned female companion. Coupling with a reluctant 
 sea captain and an amnesiac yellow faerie Link must sail the seas from island to island, discovering 
 the fate of his friends and the power behind the evil.
  
  It's rare that a familiar character base (especially a popular name from Nintendo) can emerge these 
 days as fresh and new as Phantom Hourglass on the DS. While a lot of people have at least experienced 
 one of Link's past escapades, the control system on the DS coupled with the nautical sea-faring 
 is interesting and instantly adaptive right from the start. The feeling of controlling Link via 
 stylus is enjoyable and smooth, and though the odd accident may occur involving our hero leaping 
 into oblivion off a close-by cliff, battles and puzzles are solved rapidly and fluently with nothing 
 but a stylus and great collection of fun items (with a shoulder button in there sometimes) .
  
  There's no doubt that the most interesting appeal of Phantom Hourglass is the control scheme. 
 Hold the stylus against the touch screen and Link will follow, swipe for a sword slash and learn 
 a variety of movements to roll, throw bombs, spin-slash, fire arrows, fling the grappling hook 
 and more.
  
  In fact, Phantom Hourglass feels so comfortable on the DS that it may be a largely contributing 
 factor to the ease of difficulty. While Zelda on DS has massive appeal for many age groups, the 
 older and more experienced players who have been following Link for years may find this adventure 
 a little too easy. Combat is thoroughly enjoyable yet easily accomplished whenever rarely forced. 
 It would have been nice to have a few more epic fights throughout Phantom Hourglass as the combat 
 scheme seems unwarranted against such low difficulty and rare significant battles.
  
  Puzzles are a creative affair, and occur quite frequently on nearly every island. It seems the 
 people of Hyrule enjoy a complicated lifestyle, continually dooming their next generation to the 
 slavery of interpreting several signs, switches, levers, caves, maps and more to do so much as 
 find an old family album. Though I say this in an assumption that puzzle solving will eat a lot 
 of time, it's more the frequency of very easy puzzles that pads out Phantom Hourglass. Most puzzles 
 are easily solvable once presented, to be followed up by a sudden character or sign pointing out 
 what is fairly obvious in the first place. Despite the ease of dungeon navigation and puzzle solving 
 in Phantom Hourglass, it's hard to not enjoy the continual opportunities to combine great items 
 and their touch-screen utilisation to navigate the many dungeons and hidden areas in Phantom Hourglass.
 
  
  By far the easiest puzzles to solve would be that of one particular dungeon - the 3rd time around. 
 While parts of this dungeon introduce some new elements (such as a very strong stealth theme) and 
 variety to the mesh of advancing through Phantom Hourglass - quite literally players are forced 
 to reventure it's many floors several times resulting in some frustration.
  
  Outside of the standard monster slaying and dungeon navigating you'd expect from a Zelda game, 
 some significant elements can really boost the experience. First coming to mind is the utilisation 
 of the top screen as both a map and note pad inside and outside of dungeons, even out at sea. A 
 quick tap of the D-pad will pull the top screen map down, allowing players to draw freely on the 
 map and leave many necessary notes for future reference. Used frequently, other methods of DS manipulation 
 provide new puzzle experiences like you would never think of, as mentioning these could ruin the 
 experience I'll leave it at that.
  
  With the variety of approaches the DS provides Phantom Hourglass, there are a lot of other islands 
 to explore and treasure to find. With some tricky sea navigation, one could even discover "Dee 
 Ess Island", a large rock island in the shape of the Nintendo DS console.
  
  As with most handheld titles a few nags of the DS system can cause embarrassing moments. Like a 
 neglected friend or pet, Phantom Hourglass forces you to talk to it quite a bit. If you're not 
 a fan of chatting with portable gaming devices in public places - it won't take long to realise 
 that the game doesn't actually map any voice patterns so merely blowing into the mic will provide 
 the same result. While I continually slander the DS for it's audio capabilities in general, Phantom 
 Hourglass can actually present some pleasant sound bytes and a lot of familiar Zelda tunes that 
 sound quite nice. Kudos to a DS game that can actually have some appeal to plugging in headphones 
 and humming along.
  
  While Phantom Hourglass has a few nags and is generally quite easy, the expansive and interactive 
 world coupled with a wonderful control scheme and good length creates the best DS game on the market 
 and a Zelda experience to rival it's brethren.
  
  The Legend of Zelda: Phantom Hourglass
  
  92%
  
  The Good -
  
  * A lavish Zelda adventure all in your hands.
  * Unique controls 
 assure continual fun.
  * A lot to explore and do.
  
  The Bad -
  
  * Repeated dungeons.
  * Generally quite easy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: STICK_ON_MARIO
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 27, 2007 10:55 pm PT
Review:  The Legend of Zelda: The Phantom Hourglass is a very challenging, visually impressive, and fun game! 
 I honestly did not think it would be all that fun when I bought it, but when I started playing..... I 
 played until I had to take an ibuprofen just to ease my headache. Anybody who is looking for a 
 reccomendation this game is top notch on the Nintendo DS. It also takes full use of the Nintendo 
 DS's capabilities! For instance you can clean maps by blowing.... Or speak into the mic..... The 
 way you use your weapon and draw paths for your boat is EXTREMELY fun.... This game also is quite 
 high in quality with graphics..... Anybody who is looking for a REAL reason to play your Nintendo 
 DS I would get this game...... Anybody who has played a Zelda game before.... This IS A MUST HAVE!
 
  aAnd to everybody who have never played a Zelda game.... Thsi game is a great way to get into the 
 series!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Dark_sageX
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 27, 2007 2:20 pm PT
Review:  The Legend of Zelda series is to known to be the best or second best game in their respective system, 
 The Legend of Zelda Phantom Hourglass for the DS is no different. The game is an epic adventure 
 and fully takes advantage of the DS hardware.
  The game takes place after The Legend of Zelda The Wind Waker for the Gamcube.
  
  Story: After 
 fending off the great evil, the pirate Tetra and Link set out on an adventure to search for new 
 land. 
  During their journey they heard rumors of a pirate ghost ship that strikes terror on the sea.
 
  One foggy night they stumbled upon a giant ghost ship, Tetra entered the ship in hopes of finding 
 treasure, but was pulled in by an evil force and was sucked in the ship, Link tried to save her 
 but ended up falling in the sea.
  Link wakes up on a beach of an island and meets a fairy by the name of Ciela.
  Being kind in 
 nature Ciala decided to aid Link on his quest to save Tetra and unravel the mystery of this ghost 
 ship once and for all.
  
  Game design: Being a sequel to Wind Waker the game sports back the cel shaded graphics.
  Like 
 every Zelda games there are dungeons, puzzles to solve and bosses to fight. Phantom hourglass is 
 a huge game, and that's saying a lot considering this is a hand held. 
  Like its prequel you will be traveling the ocean with a ship. However this time you will use a 
 steam powered ship so don't worry about changing wind direction.
  You will come across this pirate captain named Lineback (who sports a Jack Sparrowish character) 
 who will let you ride his ship. You will use the stylus to draw a root for the ship to take and 
 the ship will sail according to the course. 
  The ship will also come with upgrades and expansions.
  The story in the game is interesting and 
 you will meet lots of interesting characters along the way and will often help those in need. There 
 are also lots of side quests. 
  
  Game play: This is where this game is probably far different than any other Zelda or DS game out 
 there. 
  The game is completely stylus dependent. You will almost never use any buttons, its just the touch 
 screen and pen. 
  From moving Link to opening chests, everything will be handled with the stylus. 
  Though you 
 might think its gimmicky it actually works really well, you will hardly get frustrated and the 
 learning curve is almost about a few minutes.
  The game also include a multi-player mode using Wi-fi, but its no where near the same as Four Swords, 
 its just a bunch of little party games that hold no reward or meaning.
  
  Sound: The music unfortunately isn't very varied. Some islands you visit will have the same music 
 and Characters will sprout out a little voice as usual, apart from sound effects there is nothing 
 special in the sound department.
  
  The Legend of Zelda Phantom Hourglass is what you would expect from Zelda, great game play, puzzles 
 that will make you scratch your head and awesome story.
  Although the stylus scheme worked out well it would have been nice if they also added functions 
 to the buttons just incase it might get annoying for those who prefer normal buttons.
  Also the multi-player is pretty useless and they should have concentrated more on adding extra 
 stuff for the Adventure mode, also it would have been nice if they used the fairy as a guider (similar 
 to Navi and Midna) because sometimes you might forget what to do or where to go and having nobody 
 to give you a hint it can get sticky.
  Otherwise I strongly recommend this game for both DS owners and fans alike. This is a must have.
 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Puffycloud
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 26, 2007 2:45 pm PT
Review:  The Zelda series has been filled with innovative fun for years across all of Nintendo's platforms... and 
 then there's Phantom Hourglass.
  
  Not only does it continue the tradition, it has raised the bar! Nintendo has managed to use the 
 touchscreen, microphone, and everything that makes the DS great in ways I would never have thought. 
 Even the way you move Link with the stylus in brillant.
  
  Unfortunately I can't go into too many details without major spoilers, but rest assured Phantom 
 Hourglass is well worth the price of admission. Set in a typical Zelda world, fans will find plenty 
 of familiar things such as boomerangs, bombs, and helpful spirits. All your weapons will help you 
 find your way through dungeons to defeat really cool bosses in awesome Zelda fashion. Even little 
 things like fishing, digging holes, customizing your ship are a blast. Great graphics, gameplay, 
 story, music, fun factor and a large dose of innovation easily set this game above everything on 
 the DS. 
  
  Outstanding achievement! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pokemon-7
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 25, 2007 12:56 pm PT
Review:  This game is the best Zelda game for DS it can even connect to Wi-fi. I have it for only 12 hours 
 or so but it's so fun and easy because I have the first faerie or whatever of power I'm going to 
 the Temple of gust or something like that. This game is highly addicted because when you reveal 
 a part you want to keep going. Like the other Zelda games the princess is kidnapped but this time 
 is at the start and you don't know who is it! This game is based on Game cube's Zelda: The wind 
 waker because it has Tetra and the same link!!! Well because it's the first Zelda game that you 
 do everything with the stylus and has new features like you can mak the map to help you remember 
 and the is something very different about it instead of having special stones they have the faeries 
 which is something new about Zelda! Also there are new items like the shovel and you can dig and 
 you can find so many things like 100 rupee and it's very helful!! So i give it a 10!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: darryl_hua
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 25, 2007 12:10 am PT
Review:  The story line seems like a Zelda movie, because the dungeons were challenging and long. The dungeons 
 were challenging, because this was my first Zelda game I've played in my whole life. The DS touch 
 screen had great controls. I liked all of the controls, because they had no movements for the D-Pad. 
 The D-Pad is so easy to use. The boomerang is the most fun item to use to me. You could use the 
 DS touch screen to draw the path of your boomerang and hit items from a long distances. The boomerang 
 also can grab certain items from a long distance and could hit your enemies. The puzzling gameplay 
 made me think a lot in the dungeons. You find clues on signs and other places. Using the boomerang 
 to hit things that can clear fires.
  So you can go through. Sometimes find clues on signs telling you a certain order for you to hit, pull 
 or push something.
  
  I recommend this game for anyone who likes puzzles or Zelda games and for anyone in the ages 9-12. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cavalli
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 24, 2007 5:12 am PT
Review:  Want a great game for your DS this Christmas or really any other time then look no further than 
 Zelda Phantom Hourglass. Zelda Phantom Hourglass sticks to the same formula that made the series 
 what it is and in terms of story telling it is a follow up to The Wind Waker but the mechanisms 
 of this game and the way it is controlled is totally different way from anything in the series. 
 The game makes full use of the DS touch screen technology with amazing controls and very smart 
 use of weapons. The game is very easy to get into with good script between the characters, which 
 at times will make you laugh. The game flows really well and there are great boss fights thanks 
 to the great controls and graphics. For any one who played the Zelda games this has everything 
 they will want and more. And for those who have not then this is a great place to start. 95/100 
 Loving it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: paslaugh
Rating: 7
Date: Dec 23, 2007 9:37 pm PT
Review:  There are a lot of things good about this game, and a lot of things that are bad. Sometimes I feel 
 like Zelda/Mario/Metroid games get a free pass by the gamespot team based on precedent alone.
 
  
  Gameplay: The way that the controls are mapped entirely to the DS' touch screen is really impressive, 
 but leads to a game that is incredibally easy, so much so that you probably wont die a single time 
 as most enemies are killed with 1 or 2 hits. Also because of the touch screen controls, there is 
 hardly any platforming/jumping. Essentially this is a 2D game masqurading with 3Dish graphics. 
 With the lack of platforming, and the ease of fighting, this final aspect of gameplay is the puzzles. 
 None of them are especially challenging, a 6-7 year old will beat this game no problem. 
  
  Graphics: Though the artistic merit of the graphics in this game is great, the execution on the 
 technical side is definitely lacking. This is far from one of the better looking games on the DS, 
 the backgrounds are washed out and grainy (especially in the darker areas) . Also the characters 
 even during cutscenes look pixelated. One graphic that they got right though was the cloud of smoke 
 the enemies dissappear in, its really quite nice.
  
  Sound: The sound is great mixing in old and new themes from previous Zelda games.
  
  Story: 
 The story while not necessarily complex, is actually quite fitting for the complexity and the duration 
 of the game. It is everything that you would expect in a chapter of the Zelda franchise.
  
  Overall: While the control scheme is great, it makes the game way too easy. You will get about 
 10-20 hours of gameplay in completeing the main story, and another 10-20 hours to get 100% completion 
 (which isnt all that compelling as it doesn't really get you much) . The graphics are really grainy 
 and pixelated in parts, and definiely keep in mind that this game is marketed toward a much younger 
 audience. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SuperLinkX
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 22, 2007 6:36 pm PT
Review:  Well to start things off this takes place right after wind waker. You explore the vast ocean in 
 search for the ghost ship that Tetra (Zelda) jumped on. I have to say I was very impressed by the 
 control scheme. It's very fun and easy to use and takes advantage of everything the DS has to offer 
 whether it's blowing into the screen to blow a candle out or directing the path for your boomerang, 
 it's fun! The storyline isn't the best they have had but it's still better than the average story 
 line in a game. Of course the game play is very nice tapping opponents to lounge slash them. It's 
 still puzzle oriented as you would expect and love. Just because it's on the DS doesn't mean it's 
 not a challenge either just in case you were wondering. All around this is a must buy for any DS 
 owner especially fans of the series! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: smootheyes2
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 22, 2007 3:33 pm PT
Review:  When I put this game into my DS and watched the opening movie, I was anticipating what would come 
 next. The movie had great music and cute visuals, I liked it already, and the game hadn't even 
 started! I got to the main screen, and started. The way the story was told was very good, it introduced 
 the plot of it very well, and it was captivating. After that, I got to get used to running around. 
 The visuals are very unique, and very good for a DS game, since it's 3D. The story started to pick 
 up and I was on my own adventure.
  
  Let's break it down. The Visuals are very cute, vibrant and fun to watch. The Music is often just 
 in the background, but you still know it's there, other times it's blaring through the speakers, 
 encompassing the room that you're in. The Musical score is a very good one, and it suits the game 
 really well. The gameplay is fantastic. Getting to know Link i easy, but to master all of his different 
 skills and gadgets is hard. The Dungeons are awesome and so much fun to figure out. They're puzzle 
 style, as well as fighting. The storyline is a really good one, in which a Ghost Pirate Ship captures 
 Link's friend, and you have to gin power, find it and ultimately, destroy the evil beast that controls 
 it.
  
  The only bad thing I have to say, is that this Zelda game lacks in the usual feel of the previous 
 Zelda game. It doesn't feel as if it is a Zelda game which is unfortunate.
  
  Overall, it's an awesome game good on every level, that does lack somewhat in the general feel 
 of the game, which can be easily overlooked if you're happy to. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: the_unknown11
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 21, 2007 7:02 pm PT
Review:  A really great game to get. It has a very good storyline. On line wi-fi play is addicting also. 
 You will want to play more. The game itself is the sequel to the Game cube game The Legend of Zelda 
 Wind Waker. If you liked that game then you will like this game even more. The part I do not like 
 about it is that the game is entirely controlled by the touch screen. That is the only bad part 
 of it. The puzzles in it really get you to think. Even after you beat the game you will have something 
 to do after. In on line you face up against one other player in one of eight different courses. 
 You have three turns to score as many force gems as you can while avoiding your opponents phantoms. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Super-Mario-Fan
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 21, 2007 6:27 pm PT
Review:  The Legend of Zelda: Phantom Hourglass is the first 3-D Zelda game to brace a portable. Like with 
 previous games in the series, you control a swordsman named Link and you fight off evil using a 
 sword and other weapons. This game in particular is a sequel to the Wind Waker, and thus has cel-shaded 
 graphics. The graphics themselves are very detailed for a DS game, and they almost look as good 
 as the Wind Waker. The sounds are of ordinary Zelda fare. No orchestrated tunes, but that's not 
 really needed on a DS game. The controls are what make this game stand out from previous games 
 in the series. Do they work? For the most part, yes. The strokes for sword attacks and the pinpoints 
 for movements work fine. There are times, though, when the game trys to get you to sketch a certain 
 symbol, such as to warp with a golden frog. Trying to nail some of these symbols correctly can 
 be a little frustrating, but that's pretty much the only thing I came across that drags the gameplay 
 down. The game is surprisingly more difficult than the GameCube Zelda games. You can't carry as 
 many hearts on Phantom Hourglass as you can in other Zelda games, and the enemies now hurt you 
 more (half a heart to a full heart per hit) . Add that to the fact that the sea vessel you travel 
 in has a life bar, and it could be possible to have several game overs before you complete the 
 game. Luckily, the game overs aren't that bad. If there were any items you obtained before, you'll 
 still have them. The game is surprisingly long for a portable game, about 18 hours of exploring 
 awaits if you include the sidequests. If you haven't played your DS in a while, and are looking 
 for a great game to play, this should hold you over for several days. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Slightly_Emo
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 20, 2007 10:45 pm PT
Review:  The Legend of Zelda: Phantom Hourglass for the Nintendo DS is a continuation on the Gamecube game 
 of the same series: The Legend of Zelda: The Wind Waker.
  Although it is a direct sequel You don't need to play Wind Waker first, as it fills you in on the 
 end of it when you start up a new game.
  I only played about 10 hours on my friends console and I understood it just fine.
  Wind Waker 
 veterans may find this a little Disappointing at first but should get used to it. They will also 
 be pleased to see some references of Wind Waker shown in this game.
  The basic story is, while sailing across the Sea with Your good friend Tetra,
  You come across 
 a Mysterious Ghost Ship. Tetra insists that she explores but when she hops on board, the ghost 
 ship sails away. While Link attempts to jump onto the Ship, he fails and falls into the Sea.
  He wakes up on an Island and sets out on a quest to retrieve his Friend.
  Accompanied by Ciela 
 the Fairy and Linebeck the Pirate, Link travels over the Sea and through lots of Dungeons and islands.
 
  You use the stylus throughout the entire game, but it works out really well.
  You tap an enemy to attack it, Rotate your stylus to spin attack, Slide it to move. etc.
  You 
 travel to different locations by ship, by drawing a route on your map.
  The main quest should last you about 20 hours or so, more if you choose to do sidequests.
  Although 
 the game is fairly easy it is really enjoyable and will last you a good two or three weeks.
  This game completely takes advantage of the DS's Functions, and that's not just the Stylus.
  
 I recommend this game to any Zelda Veterans or anybody who is looking for a game to fill some time. 
 You can't go wrong. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bowser_breath
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 18, 2007 9:08 am PT
Review:  Touch screen Control. They first tried it in Super Mario 64 DS, yet to no avail. They also put 
 in into Final Fantasy III, which worked quite well. But no one would have thought a Touch Screen 
 control game would ever be perfect. But the Phantom Hourglass came along! When i fist head that 
 Phantom Hourglass would be cntrolled solely by Touch Screen i was worried. I was a fan of the touch 
 screen, but not as the only source of control. I feared tis might put me off the game, but after 
 10 minutes of play PH i was immediately stunned by how natural it felt. The control is absolutely 
 perfect, after completing the game, i now prefer touch screen to D-Pad and buttons. It has the 
 best graphics i have seen on the DS, with only Super Mario 64 DS being a worthy rival. It is overhead 
 in the dungeons and towns, but completely 3-D out on the open sea and some bosses. When i say open 
 sea i am not saying the sea is large at all, which is a relief for some. The map is about 5% of 
 the size of WindWaker, and although that seems far too small, every quadrant is packed with islands 
 and things to do.
  
  No Zelda title has ever made me laugh out loud before but Phantom Hourglass is packed with Humour. 
 I really did laugh at some moments! I think this is very good for the game and proves games don't 
 have to be dark and disturbing.
  
  Long reviews are quite tiresome to read sometimes and if i were to really write a detailed review 
 expressing my true passion for the game it would be a few pages! If you have a DS then i can sum 
 this review into two words: BUY IT!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: firefox10210
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 31, 2007 1:28 pm PT
Review:  The Legend of Zelda: Phantom Hourglass is the first Zelda game to hit the DS. It had been anticipated 
 for a very long time, and upon its release received mixed reactions. Some thought the game to be 
 very intuitive. Some liked the great graphics. Overall, everybody had one comment on the game. 
 It was outstanding.
  Phantom Hourglass is the direct sequel to the masterpiece Gamecube title, known as WW, or Windwaker. 
 It does a great job continuing the story, this time the main antagonist being the beastlike creature, 
 Bellum. (Yes, Ganondorf is sadly dead.) As Link, your quest is to save Tetra a. k. a Zelda who was 
 captured by the ghost ship, and all the heroic deeds as in any Zelda game.
  The control of the game is entirely touch screen based, which gives a unique feel. You slash your 
 stylus to attack, and touch things to interact with them. It all flows really well, and is very 
 responsive in the end. It definitely works better than standard button mashing would have on the 
 DS.
  In looks, the game is definitely the best looking DS game so far. Characters looks awesome, they 
 flow very nicely, and environments are great. There are tons of places to explore, and the world 
 is just, huge. Plain and simple. You will probably only be bored with this game after the second 
 or third time playing through it, due to all the side quests to do. Although the world isn't as 
 big as the great Windwaker world, It's big enough, especially for a DS game.
  Music and sound in the game are average, seeing as some sound effects produced through the DS speakers 
 are pretty cheap, but the music is the great part. Windwaker and Ocarina of Time tunes are found 
 throughout the whole game. 
  Along with those features, another great plus is that characters from Windwaker are in this game, 
 along with new characters. All of Tetra's pirate crew is in the game, and surprisingly, they look 
 almost as good up close as they did in Windwaker. New characters, including the coolest, the Gorons, 
 are also in this game, and Goron island is portrayed very well. Link also has a fairy in this game, 
 like Link did in the classic OoT, who will assist you and your new partner, Linebeck, throughout 
 your journey. 
  The story in the game is not broken or torn in any parts, and ties together as well as a Zelda 
 game's story should. The dungeon and level design is exceptional for a DS game, yet the tedious 
 Temple of the Ocean King is probably the most annoying aspect of any of the Zelda games. This is 
 true because players will have to make constant visits back, any go through the same levels and 
 rooms over and over again. This is definitely the worst aspect of the game. However, the rest of 
 the game's stellar presentation overshadow this by far.
  Overall, Phantom Hourglass is the best DS game out right now, and has set a new standard for all 
 DS games.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: LOZF
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 15, 2007 9:16 am PT
Review:  The Legend of Zelda: The Wind Waker was a zelda game for the Gamecube. Loved by many Zelda fans. 
 The Epic Storyline continues with the Legend of Zelda: Phantom Hourglass. The First Zelda game for 
 the DS and in my eyes tied for the best Zelda EVER. (tied with Ocarina of Time)
  
  Gameplay: This game, like the others has Superb Gameplay. You, of course control the protagonist, 
 Link (though you can name him whatever you like) as he goes on an adventure defeating enimies, Bosses, 
 finding items, exploring, and proceeding through the main storyline. Gameplay:10
  
  Graphics: The graphics for this game haven't changed much from the Wind Waker but if you loved the 
 WW graphics (as i did) you'll love these graphics they are very fun and Creative. Graphics:10
  
  Controls: The controls in this game are unlike any other DS game I've played. you use the Stylus 
 for almost Everything. You use it to move, fight, roll, etc. You basically NEVER use the buttons (only 
 to open your maps and stuff) You use the DS microphone to shout at enimies. And the controls are 
 really creative. Controls:10
  
  Sound: The Music and Sound haven't changed much. The good thing about that is... THE SOUND IS EXCELLENT! 
 Sound:10
  
  Fun: This game is one of the most fun games I've ever played. You will be playing this game for 
 hours when you first glance at it. Fun:10
  
  Overall: Yet again Nintendo has outdone themselves. I bet you this game will make you turn away 
 from your Wii for at least 2 weeks it did to me and it will to you. Overall:10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hebri
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 13, 2007 12:25 pm PT
Review:  Gameplay 10- i dont really need to talk about it, this is the best part of the game. You move, 
 attack, use your items by your stylus. The boomerang is actually fun to use in this game: you draw 
 the path of the boomerang and it follows it perfectly. You can also write notes on your map making 
 the game nicer. The puzzles in the game are just amazing and really fun to figure out especially 
 in the temple of the oceam kinf.
  
  Graphics 10- best looking DS game. PERIOD.
  
  Sound 9.0- really nice songs and sound effects. If you really want to enjoy the songs, put on you 
 headphones and you will really be absorbed into the game.
  
  Valie 9.0- 20 hour story (a good story) is really enough for you to enjoy the game throughly, not 
 to mention the sidequest like collecting treasures, heart containers, ship parts, etc. The online 
 mode is a lot of fun to play so the game is worth your money.
  
  Lasting Appeal 9.5- the game is really fun to play and its really hard to get bored from it. When 
 you'll finish the game, you'll want to play it again and play the on-line mode again and again.
 
  
  OVERALL= 9.5- this game really took my mind. Before i got it i was expecting it to be a fantastic 
 game. When i got it, i found myself enjoying it more than i had expected. The stunning graphics, 
 nice story, perfect controls really make this game the portable game ever to be created. Ninetendo 
 prove it once again that only they can make zelda games right... its a Zelda game after all... so 
 know that what coming for you is more than you're expecting 
::::::

::::::
UserName: slidypitt
Rating: 8.5
Date: Dec 12, 2007 4:05 am PT
Review:  This is the following of Wind Waker and it was great better than Wind Waker. The fact that you 
 use the Ds' pen make the game more difficult, but more fun. The problem is that some moves ( like 
 the roll) are hard to do. There a lot of mini-games too. The story is quite interesting. The bosses 
 makes you some enormous difficulty, but you will like them. The music is a little boring. The graphics 
 are good ( for the DS) . The animations are a little glitchy and not-well do, but in the game, they 
 not have a lot of them so...
  I think i say all the things i have to say. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: RHCPfan24
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 11, 2007 6:27 pm PT
Review:  As a Zelda fan, I was very pleased by this game. Following the events of The Wind Waker, this story 
 of this game is good and Linebeck is an annoying, funny character. The design is the same Wind 
 Waker cel-shaded graphics, and it works very well on the DS.
  
  The controls are actually very intuitive, but they will require some patience to get used to. Somersaulting 
 is difficult to do, but everything else is easy to use, and the boomerang is great using the touch 
 screen. 
  
  Some people are saying bad things about the repeated visits to the Temple of the Ocean King, but 
 I like it and variety is presented in each time you visit. The hourglass' minutes are added if 
 you go and collect sand throughout the world, making visits easier. 
  
  My favorite part of the game is going on the boat and traveling through the ocean. The graphics 
 are amazing for the DS as is the draw distance. I can't really find many complaints for this game, 
 but it could be a little short for experienced players. 
  
  By far my favorite DS game of the year. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MarkedByAshes
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 11, 2007 1:44 pm PT
Review:  First of all, I have to point out that this game was MUCH longer than I had anticipated. When I 
 play a handheld game, I think about it being 6 - 12 hours of gameplay, but not in Zelda's case. 
 Not only do you have a large amount of area to cover with the main game, the side-quests and mini-games 
 keep you playing (and sometimes cursing) for hours more. The amazing amount of content in the game 
 has me wondering how they managed to have room for the spectacular graphics.
  
  I know quite a few people who refused to play LoZ: Wind Waker because of the departure from the 
 Ocarina/Majora's Mask-style graphics. I, however, loved the Wind Waker's art style. Therefore, 
 seeing it almost perfectly recreated on the DS, I was in awe of the beauty of the game. And then 
 on top of that, there were loads of clever uses of the touch screen with the gadgets and great 
 puzzles and mini-games. But this does bring me to one of the game's issues...
  
  The control scheme. I wasn't completely comfortable with using the touch screen exclusively. There 
 were issues that arose like the rolling dodge not working exactly when I wanted it to or running 
 around when I wanted to slash an enemy. These problems aren't enough to drop the score any, but 
 one thing that did get irritating was having my own hand get in the way of the screen while playing. 
 Several times I would miss something because my hand was obscuring a creature or point of interest. 
 Another minor point was that some puzzles had really vague clues, but nothing seemed to get overly 
 difficult to the point of impassable IF you made sure to read all the clues and take copious notes. 
 
  
  Overall, a fantastic handheld adventure with plenty of extra side quests to keep the perfectionists 
 busy for a while, but for those of us who just want to enjoy the main story it's got plenty to 
 offer as well. A must for all Zelda fans and a great adventure for just about anyone looking for 
 a bit of a challenge. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Darkknight313
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 11, 2007 1:40 pm PT
Review:  This game is amazing it is a sequel to Legend of Zelda Wind Waker which was a sequel to Majoras 
 Mask which was a sequel to Ocarina of Time.
  Plot: Link is on the boat of pirates with Tetra (Zelda) and then Link is tired but something bad 
 happens a gost ship kidnaps Tetra and then Link is on shore with an old man and then Link then 
 goe's to the temple of the ocean king to meet a sailer (I forgot his name) and then they use sea 
 charts in order to get the sand's for the phantom hourglass to get to the source of the temple 
 to find the phantom sourd to defeat this beast and save Tetra. This is a awesome game not quite 
 what I expected but I still like it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: JoeGio7
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 10, 2007 3:56 pm PT
Review:  This Zelda doe's look great, I played a demo of it in Wal-Mart a couple of time's and I can say 
 it's pretty good and sweet. It look's like they brought back the Wind Waker and added a few twist's 
 and other cool stuff to it. I did'nt read too much of the story-linebut it doe's look great and 
 all. The control's look kind of difficult to do, but once I get it I'll practice at it. Another cool 
 thing about it, is how it; s on the DS with the pen and two srceen's that's terrific and all. I liked 
 to get it, but I need first to work for the money then I will say more about it, but right now I 
 say it look's sweet another great Zelda title. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: prettygoodatit
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 10, 2007 12:53 pm PT
Review:  At first I had a little bit of a problem with the control method. The stylus would be in the way 
 of what I was trying to see, etc. Once I put a little bit of time into it, I really started to 
 appreciate it. 
  
  The graphics are as good as can be expected. They bring back the pixel shading from Zelda: The 
 Wind Waker. Sound is good, and the game play is enjoyable. 
  
  The story does tend to drag a little bit, just like Wind Waker did. Not quite as much time floating 
 around the sea, but it's still a major part of the game.
  
  The puzzles are really good in this game, if not a little bit simple. I really enjoyed the aspects 
 that are added by the features built into the DS. Movement, sound, etc. 
  
  All in all, a very well done addition to the Zelda series. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Bedheadphil26
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 10, 2007 12:24 am PT
Review:  I have not had the pleasure of playing many of the Zelda games from the past only ( wind waker 
 and minish cap) so i can only base my review on thoese games. From what i have played of it its 
 really good.
  
  Gameplay: What makes Phantom hourglass so amazing is its gameplay. Only making use of the touch 
 screen was truly asome. Everything from running to fighting and throwing your boomerang is done 
 with touch. I really loved the fact you could draw where you wanted the boomerang to go. they also 
 get you to use the mic a few times even when fighting a monster with big ears. As well as geting 
 you to close your DS to print something on a map. unlike wind waker sailing phantom hourglass sailing 
 is really fun to partake in, all you have to do is draw the course you want to take on your map 
 and the ship shall sail there, and killing enemies with your cannon is point and touch. There are 
 a few other goodies you can find them as you play. The boss fights are great tho very original 
 and very fun.
  
  Now you must know this zelda is alot more focused on puzzle type gameplay not fighting, now this 
 could be a good and bad thing depending on what you like more. Ahh almost forgot trying to do rolls 
 with link is a pain.
  
  
  Graphics: Not much to say about the graphics they are top notch fully cell-shaded 3D.
  
  Sound: 
 The music in the game is incredible like all zelda game you will also want to get a headset to 
 hear it better.
  
  Final Verdict: My Final Verdict on this is if you like adventure games or zelda you must play it 
 , it has a very good cast of memorable characters. The puzzles really get your mind working i only 
 wished they are more fighting is all. 
  
  My Score is 9 heart containers out of 10 :D
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: liugeaux
Rating: 8.5
Date: Dec 9, 2007 11:03 pm PT
Review:  Phantom Hourglass has some really unique and innovative ideas, but at the same time it has multiple 
 gameplay mechanics that work against it. 
  
  First, lets air the dirty laundry. The Nintendo DS Lite is the most uncomfortable portable system 
 to have to hold with one hand and unless you plan on playing one of the many games that has you 
 holding it notebook style you hand will tire and probably cramp up. So, excessive touch controls 
 can get tedious if the game your playing doesn't give you a break. Phantom Hourglass doesn't at 
 all. The entire game is played using the touch screen, with very few functions being handled by 
 the systems buttons. There wasn't a good reason for Nintendo not to make Phantom Hourglass a notebook 
 style touch screen game. Had they done this, I literally would not have put it down before finishing 
 the game. Unfortunately the system itself made it hard because my hands kept falling asleep holding 
 the DS up. 
  
  Now with that out of the way, this game was blast... for the most part. The music is wonderful and 
 the production value is stellar. It is set in the universe of the Wind Waker, but doesn't borrow 
 anything from it's story. For the most part it disregards Tetra's lineage in the Zelda world and 
 takes no plot points from Wind Waker. Pretty much the biggest thing it takes from it's predecessor 
 is the art style. The DS does a good job rendering the cell-shading and the colors are very vivid. 
 The touch controls are alarming at first but picking up the gameplay is fairly easy. All the Zelda 
 cliche's that everyone has grown to love are here. The bow, boomerang, bombs, hammer, and grappling 
 hook all have returned but they all have a great new twist thanks to the touch controls. You guide 
 the boomerang with the stylus, you aim the bow and pull back the arrow with the stylus, and you 
 can even bridge gaps using the grappling hook rope as a tight rope. Looking at these huge advantages 
 to the touch controls, they have their disadvantages too. First, its really hard to get Link to 
 do his roll, and during the time you take to switch weapons you are vulnerable to enemy attacks. 
 Also, some of the 3D environments can be difficult to navigate having to have the stylus a few 
 centimeters away from Link. Overall, the touch controls are a huge advancement in the potential 
 of the DS. 
  
  Now, the only real problems with the game itself (other than the previously mentioned control quirks) 
 are that the game is really really easy (any game whose final boss only takes one try is way too 
 easy) and the Temple of the Ocean King is a colossal headache. Having to traverse this dungeon 
 several times gets old really quick. It doesn't help that you are timed and if you run out of time 
 you have to start all the way over. On top of that, the enemies, instead of simply taking away 
 hearts when they hit you, they also deduct 30 seconds from your remaining time. The timed dungeon 
 is a good idea but it would have been more affective if there were several timed dungeons instead 
 of one that you must play a dozen times. 
  
  Don't let that discourage you from picking this one up. The DS is long over due for a Zelda game 
 and if Phantom Hourglass is anything its a Zelda game through and through. No matter how many times 
 Nintendo rehashes the Zelda formula, it will remain a solid play and a must own for all gamers. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Moosechild
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 9, 2007 7:11 am PT
Review:  The Legend of Zelda: Phantom Hourglass is an amazing addictive and clever. throughout the whole 
 game you control Link and slove puzzles and kill baddies. the has a very clever use for the touch-screen 
 having you swipe across the screen to swing your sword and drawing the path in which your boomerang 
 will fly in. you can also draw the path your boat will go in. the game is a good length for a DS 
 game. it has perfect graphics for the DS. the game is worth the time and money. I strongly recommend 
 this to ANY DS owners. you will not be disappointed. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rester
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 8, 2007 11:29 pm PT
Review:  Graphics
  Incredible for a DS. Everything from environments and characters are spot on and impressivley close 
 to the Wind Waker. Sure, there are blurry textures and less polys, but everything moves smoothly, 
 is rich in detailand overall delivers a comparable experience
  
  Sound
  Classic Zelda sound, with usual reanraangee melodies. Sound fx are appropriate, everything you 
 would expect from a Zelda ame
  
  Playability
  Phantom hourglass is a pure delight to play. First of all, the touch only controls work incredibly 
 well and make the whole experience extremely easy to pick up without sacrificing much in the way 
 of the classic Zelda control depth. Eveything is extremely responsive and comfortable and just 
 feels right. Teh gamepaly is not much different from what you have come to expect from a Zelda 
 game. Puzzles start fairly easy and become more and more challanging without ever getting too hard. 
 They also use a lot of the unique touch screen mechanics which is great. The game never has a dull 
 moment, it's never so hard to frustrate you but never so easy to become boring. Boss fights are 
 generally a bit underwhelmnig for a Zelda game. Patterns are quickly recognizable and generally 
 speaking bosses are never a challenge.
  
  Longevity
  The game is around 10 hours long, which is perfect because it gives you enough content to chew 
 on but also ends when you feel like you have had enough. Replayability is very limited
  
  Overall
  I loved PS. It looks great, feels great, plays great, it's just the perfect zelda handheld 
 package 
::::::

::::::
UserName: xNYROCx
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 8, 2007 3:58 pm PT
Review:  A gamer that is highly worth the wait. I just got this game today and im already hooked.
  
  Gameplay: Very well thought out puzzles, EPIC boss battles, good action and other things. The only 
 thing im not so crazy about is the automatic jump. it takes all the risk out of some areas. Some 
 of the fun in other Zelda games was the leap of faith and hoping that you make it, and either wiping 
 the sweat of your forehead when you make it, or sorrowfully watching link plummet to his peril.
 
  
  Sound: Pretty good. NPC SFX can get a bit repetitive however.
  
  Graphics: the lovable storybook-type graphics make another appearance in this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: manhunt92
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 9, 2007 8:36 pm PT
Review:  Nintendo couldn't start the Zelda series in the DS with a remake or a game that would be very alike 
 to the others, it' s a unique console and it must be a unique game. Maybe in a future Nintendo 
 will decide to do a OoT remake but it was a smart move to launch PH first.
  
  Story: (won`t get into details) The story isn't the "big thing" obviously it doesn't match OoT 
 or TP but in my opinion is very comforting and entertaining. Not a long time after Link defeated 
 Ganon at WW with Tetra's help, the two friends embark on a journey to explore the great sea. One 
 day, while sailing a Ghost Ships appears and kidnappeds Tetra, Link somehow ends in a island alone 
 and then begins his journey to save tetra.
  
  Gameplay: the buttons on your DS becomes obsolete the moment you start to play the game, the stylus 
 controls all; of course you can use the buttons to access to the menu or map faster or to use the 
 item faster, too. Point the stylus to the point you want Link to walk, touch the enemy to slice 
 it with your sword, touch something to pick it up or push it, touch someone to talk to him or her, 
 write notes in your map to make your adventure easier, write the route you want the ship to follow! 
 You get the idea.
  
  Graphics: the game uses the same graphic motor of Wind Waker (cell-shade) it takes advantages of 
 the DS' capabilities. Well designed.
  
  Sound: Link' s voice is the same, the music is somewhat related to the one used in WW and sometimes 
 totally new. 
  
  Multiplayer: I didn't like the multiplayer mode too much, is stressing, maybe it's because I suck 
 at it but well it's like this: it ahs a maximum of two players (something bad to start with) one 
 begins being a colored Link an the other is a Phantom guardian. The Link must get a gems and place 
 them in his base while the guardian must stop this at all cost. The round finishes when the guardian 
 hits Link or tilt' the time is up, then the rolls change and another round begins.
  
  At last, after playing and playing Zelda since little, finally it's available the option of selecting 
 the language, I'm from Venezuela so it really makes me happy to see the waiting is worth.
  Resuming it's a great game recommendable for anyone, although I haven't finished it, it's awesome 
 tilt' now! you must at least try it! 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: sugarcandysin
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 7, 2007 12:03 pm PT
Review:  I just got Phantom Hourglass like 5 days ago, and it's really fun!
  
  Gameplay (9/10)
  OK, here's the deal! It starts right after the story of Wind Waker, I believe (my owner's brother 
 played Wind Waker so I knew the storyline) and Link and the whole pirate crew are like, sailing 
 out. All of a sudden, they see a ghost ship. Tetra leaps after it because she wants the money, 
 but then a scream follows after. Link jumps after her to save her, but ends up in the water and 
 wakes up on an island! He woke up and meets a fairy. The fairy helps him on his quest to find the 
 Ghost Ship and save Tetra!
  
  This game, I would say it's very fun and has a great storyline! But I think that it's a bit too 
 short.
  
  Graphics (10/10)
  Chibi graphics rule!
  
  Sound (8/10)
  I recognize that some of these sounds are also in Animal Crossing: Wild World! Really! I'm deadly 
 serious! Now speaking of it, there is a boat that sells stuff and there are points for you everytime 
 you buy sumthin'! Now, in Animal Crossing: Wild World, there is Nook Points everytime you buy something! 
 Weird.
  
  Value (9/10)
  Great, but it doesn't last really long.
  
  Reviewer's Tilt (9/10)
  It'ds basically a good game, just too short, OK???
  
  -TOTAL SCORE- 
 (9/10)
  Great game, just short like mentioned before! Storyline's interesting and some of the ways to solve 
 puzzles are very creative, I have to say! Like there is a map on a stone shaped like a sun (or 
 something) ! There's a map with a mark on it on the sun stone thingy. It says something about transferring 
 the mark to the map and you can continue or something! So you would have to open your map (the 
 sun stone map is on the top screen just to let you know and the map you have is on the touch screen) 
 and close the DS Lid! Then, you'll see the mark on your map! Interesting, huh?
  
  So great game, recommended! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: palomaydarla
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 7, 2007 4:40 am PT
Review:  This game is great!! it has everything you can ask from a hand held game produced by Nintendo. 
 The use of the stylus is great and even though some people may find it boring, I think Zelda PH 
 is one of the best games out in the market to probe and test the abilities of the DS.
  I found the graphics amazingly cute, which it means that for some people the game looks to cute 
 to play it. I didn't like the looks they gave to Link,,, the same ones from Wind Waker... anyway, 
 it's my taste... I know it's weird...
  
  The sound it's amazing. I love the songs, the sounds, etc. I love the fact they fixed the boat 
 driving system. I hated the way of traveling around on the Wind Waker, but this time it's not also 
 not painful, but gratifying to travel around the map. The frog symbols are sooo convenient to jump 
 from one map to the other...
  
  Ok... so far so good... but was I the only one to feel a pain and feeling like you don't want to 
 play anymore the game, every time you have to go back to the stupid ocean temple??? ok, first of 
 all, that temple is horrible, and in top of that, they make us go several times and go deeper... 
 and timed also!! what a torture!!
  believe it or not I haven't finished the game, even if I was one of the first persons to buy it 
 the release date... why?? because I'm at the end of the game and I have to go to the ocean temple... 
 the day I find the courage to go, I'll tell you if the end sucks or what...
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: sikongchen
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 5, 2007 6:10 pm PT
Review:  "Wind Waker" is my favorite one. It's not about wind, it's about ocean. I love the concept of sailing's 
 adventure in the ocean. And this time, Phantom Hourglass keeps this concept in and too many similar 
 factors I can see. Therefore, I feel that it is pretty easy compared with other Zelda's game. Of 
 course, the core reason is the touch-way attack.
  
  What's I like?
  1, Link's lovely image and easy atmosphere. I do love this style but not Twilight Princess's.
 
  2, Easy to control. Absorbing many light players and non-Zelda fans in it.
  3, Traditional scheme and details. Keep core fans in.
  
  What's I hate?
  1, No Tingle and 
 No Canon. I do miss them two very much.
  2, No any new factor in 2nd round. Sigh
  3, Mere the last boss feels like a boss. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Superblob123
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 5, 2007 1:21 pm PT
Review:  At first look, this game might look a little frilly and girlyl, but believe me, don't judge this 
 book by it's cover! Phantom Hourglass is the sequal to the highly acclaimed GCN title LoZ Windwaker, 
 probably my favorite GCN title. This game is definately worthy of being called it's sequal. This 
 game follows Link, a LoZ main character (duh) , and his friend Zelda, er, I mean, Tetra sailing 
 off on a pirate ship off to discover new lands, when suddenly, a Ghost Ship pulls up beside the 
 boat! Without thinking, Tetra hops aboard to search for treasure. Link, knowing this is a bad decision, 
 leaps after her, but falls off the side of the boat! And the story begins!
  The touch-screen controlls are AMAZING! Don't listen to all those people who worried about being 
 100% touch-screen, the controll scheme works! From tapping the screen to shash enemies with a hammer, 
 to drawing a path for your boomerang, the controlls flow smoothly. The only problem I found was 
 rolling (scribbling on the edge of the screen while running)
  The story is good, with plenty of twists and turns in the plot. While it might not be as deep as 
 something such as Halo or Metal Gear, it's plenty for a handheld. The only real snag is that there 
 is one huge temple that you backtrack to throughout the whole game, and gets harder and HARDER 
 AND HARDER!!!!!!!!
  This game is around 16 hours long, enough to beat in three days if you work at it. Overall, this 
 is my favorite DS game. I give it a 9.5 out of 10. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: aduana69
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 4, 2007 7:41 am PT
Review:  I bought this game because i read the gamespot review. I know, I know, I know that some times gamespot 
 made mistakes like Mass effect reiw but this time they nailed it. the gmae story line and the graphics 
 for such mall console are great if not the best jutst seen in th DS.
  
  I bought this system for my daughter but since I paid for it jjajajaja. Not seriusly this game 
 Is a must buy my friends even if you ave a PSP. The Zelda series has grown into a massive adventure 
 for the DS is no exception. And even if you buy the pink DS.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: tjay511
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 2, 2007 3:23 pm PT
Review:  There is one way to describe this game amazing. Best game ever on a portable system. There is absolutely 
 nothing wrong with this games and that is all I have to say. This game has perfect graphics, amazing 
 game play, great sound, some humor, and an amazing story. This is one of the most addicting games 
 i have ever played. If you have a DS you owe it to yourself to buy this game. This game has some 
 of the best graphics of any portable game. I actually played this more than some console games. 
 This game is hands down the best game out there for a DS. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: weddlecm
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 2, 2007 8:22 am PT
Review:  Zelda Phantom Hourglass is kind of a sequal to Zelda Windwaker. For me, I think this game is great. 
 The stylis is kind of weird, I do like how you use it a lot though. It does take a few good hours 
 to get use to it though. Anyways, This game has great graphics, sound, and a great story line. 
 You have to save Tetra on the Ghost Ship. It really blends in good with the rest of the game. There 
 is this one part in the game were you actually have to get this persons attension by saying something 
 into the mic. Also to get to the first dungeon, you have to blow out these one candles to open 
 the door. I stupidly went around for an hour looking how to blow them out. Then I looked online. 
 And I couldn't be more stupid, you acutally blow into the mic to blow them out, which is very, 
 very cool! Also the multiplayer is very fun and interesting. Anyways this is a very good game for 
 the ds and I would most definetly reccamend it for your first game, to get use to the stylus. 9/10 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Bazza28
Rating: 8
Date: Dec 2, 2007 3:26 am PT
Review:  When I saw the screens of this game for the first time in the magazines, I was looking forward 
 playing this one. It looked amazing and the fact that you only have to use the stylus kept things 
 very promising.
  I have been playing this game for a few weeks now and I have to say: I'm impressed! Impressed about 
 what the real potential of the DS.
  But to be honest: I'm a bit disapppointed with phantom hourglass as a Zelda game. Sure the new 
 gameplay style is innovating, but I don't feel the connection with Link like the previous zelda-games, 
 due to the stylus-gameplay. 
  Sometimes playing with the stylus is a bit awkward. I'm right-handed, and when i have to move link 
 westwards I block the screen with my hand. Throwing bombs can be a pain in the ass sometimes. It's 
 pretty hard to do a headroll, because the screen doesn't register the right stylus-move.
  I'm also disappointed with the background music this time. Only one background theme for a dungeon! 
 Very repetitive in my opinion. What becomes very boring is that you have to visit the ocean temple 
 every time you retrieve a critical object, and have to do that dungeon over and over again!
  
  Zelda: phantom hourglass is by no means a bad game however. The quest is huge, characters are 
 very funny, story is good and for a DS game it's doing a lot of things right. I just want to say 
 the next time I play zelda, I surely hope it will be on the Wii! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ThePimpEdwin
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 1, 2007 11:02 pm PT
Review:  this game is a nice sequel to wind waker and is great with the use of the stylus and is either 
 hard or easy depending on how you play it's story is grt and fun and the boomerang is a nice addition 
 but you eventually get tired of going through the same temples over and over again without knowing 
 what to do and you mostly have to figure out everything by yourself and a really bad part is that 
 has no absolute replay value after you pass it you might never play it again all in all it's a 
 good game for new to the Zelda saga! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kadenman123
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 1, 2007 2:48 pm PT
Review:  This is basicly the best zelda game so far! I love everything about it! (Other then the Ocean King 
 Temple.) The graphics are sexy, the controls are pimplishous, and the temples are more fun then 
 ever! There is not one thing I hate about this game! (Other then the Ocean King Temple.) The sailing 
 in this game is even better then Windwakers, it gives you more of a pirate feeling when you hunt 
 for treasure. I dont know about you, but I thought it sucked balls when your ship was attacked 
 in the first one, and to stop them you had to stop your ship and shoot them. Well in this one you 
 can move and shoot! Well yeah, this game rocks! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: yoshi892
Rating: 8.5
Date: Dec 1, 2007 1:50 pm PT
Review:  The Legend of Zelda is considered by many to be the greatest video game series ever made. It has 
 had it's absolute highs with games like Twilight Princess and Ocarina of Time and it's lows with 
 games like the Adventure of Link. Phantom Hourglass is the direct sequel to the excellent GameCube 
 game, The Wind Waker, but does it live up to it's predescesor?
  
  The answer unfortunately is no. Whilst having all of the elements of previous Zelda games it just 
 lacks that little bit of magic which most other Zelda games have. The touch screen controls are 
 implemented brilliantly and the graphics are by far the most colourful (and at the same time beautiful) 
 on the DS. The 3D environments are excellent and all the characters have unique personalites. I 
 am however slighlty dissapointed by the islands. As you approach them they look enourmous, but 
 when you dock they are actually quite small and flat.
  
  The dungeons in the game don't dissapoint either. They have the same Zelda puzzels for you to solve 
 made much better by the DS controls. The big weakness however in the dungeons I found to be, was 
 the Temple of the Ocean King. The levels in this dungeon all feel very samey and tedious, which 
 is a big dissapointment seeing as you spend alot of your time in there. Another problem with this 
 game is that is a tad too easy. You can have this game done and dusted pretty quickly and it's 
 not because it's a short game - it's because it's easy.
  
  The Wi-Fi multiplayer mode however does not dissapoint at all. This is one of the best bits of 
 the games and will provide you with hours of fun. For those of you without wireless internet connection, 
 don't worry as there is a single cart multiplay mode. 
  
  So overall The Legend of Zelda Phantom Hourglass does in away dissapoint. It is however a very 
 good game and I cannot recomend it enough to any DS owner. But if you are expecting "Ocarina of 
 Time DS" then don't hold your breath.
  
  Summary:
  + Gorgeous graphics
  + Excellent dungeon design
  + Wi-Fi battles are fantastic
  - Too Easy
  - Islands slightly 
 dissapointing 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Bojiggles
Rating: 6.5
Date: Nov 30, 2007 5:16 pm PT
Review:  The Legend of Zelda: Phantom Hourglass was a good idea but they ruined it. How? First off the controlls, 
 they work descent and all but come on, get with it. No one wants drag a stylus along a screen to 
 get Link to walk and sling his sword by drawling lines all over the place, it's not even responsive 
 half the time. Rolling or swinging links sword isn't responsive at all. They should have went with 
 a button style control scheme. And for god sakes, what's the point in having a system capable of 
 3-D graphics and never using them? Get rid of the crappy 2-D stuff, it's out of date and no one 
 likes it anymore. But don't get me wrong people, I'm a seriously huge Zelda fan, but really this 
 chapter in the series has some seriously annoying flaws that ruin its goodness. Okay, the biggest 
 flaw about this game that truly ruins it is the Temple of the Ocean king. After every temple or 
 every time you get past one level of the game, you have to go to the Temple of the Ocean King to 
 find out where to go next, again, again.... and again. Why is this so bad? Because it's not just 
 your normal temple, you're being timed the whole time and you cant just freely explore, you have 
 to stay hidden the whole time in safe zones so you dont get captured by guards called phantoms, 
 and so your Phantom Hourglass doesn't run out. If you're hourglass runs out, you're dead. Which 
 is very dumb. Okay now for some pros and cons.
  
  Pros:
  
  It's a Zelda game, and Zelda games rock
  Fun temples (not including the Temple of the Ocean King)
 
  Pretty lengthy
  Lots of items to collect...
  Good follw up to the Wind Waker
  
  Cons: 
  
  Graphics suck
  Not 3-D
  Controlls suck
  Multiplayer sucks
  Online play sucks
 
  Temple of the Ocean King ruins the game
  
  Well there ya go. The game sucks because of a few things. Usually a game's flaws dont ruin the 
 game but I'm sorry, in this case, they do. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Stonetowerghost
Rating: 7.5
Date: Nov 30, 2007 10:11 am PT
Review:  The Good: Touch screen controls are intuitive and fun; Boss fights are easy, yet awesome; There's 
 a good deal of humor; Nostalgia galore...
  
  The Bad: The Temple of the Ocean King is frustrating; The game's too easy; Replay Value's a little 
 flat on the ground; Why is the touch screen the only option?...
  
  The Legend of Zelda series has produced instant classics. There's Ocarina of Time's revolutionary 
 Gameplay, Majora's Mask's dark theme, the brilliance of A Link to the Past, and so many others. 
 While there's a boatload of creativity and fun involved, you'll find that Phantom Hourglass is 
 a bit of a disappointment that doesn't live up to its namesake. 
  
  The game begins in ways that will immediately make you think of Wind Waker, and I enjoy the sense 
 of nostagia involved. Link is with Tetra and the crew (BTW, Link's a HORRIBLE Pirate) , and they're 
 planning to find the Ghost Ship. Right on cue, the ghost ship appears, takes Tetra on board the 
 ship, and Link dives after her. A fairy (Ceila) then wakes Link up, and declares herself his partner 
 and decides to help him in his quest to save Tetra. A little cliched? Yeah, but it gets the job 
 done. 
  
  You'll find that the gameplay is very nicely done, but there are a few gripes to all the creativity. 
 While the sword play is accurate, fighting certain enemies is a downright chore due to the lack 
 of targeting presented in the 3d Zelda games. You'll literally find yourself playing hit and run 
 with certain baddies, and waiting for the opportunity to attack. It's very frustrating. Also, while 
 the touch screen options are cool, I can't understand why it was the only option. It would have 
 been far easier in some areas of the game with classic controls. The handwriting recognition is 
 probably the most frustrating part of the game. If you can't draw a proper Triforce on your Nintendo 
 DS, don't plan on getting much farther. Nintendo seems to be covertly training our ability to draw 
 shapes and write numbers... disturbing, eh? While the ocean parts are improved, that doesn't make 
 them perfect. Taking down enemies at sea gets old after a while, and traversing the ocean still 
 takes quite a bit of time. Nintendo fixes this problem with warp points, but why the hell do we 
 have to draw a shape whenever we want to warp? Not to mention that you can erase markings on your 
 map, so don't piss off a family member or they might destroy your chances of getting around quickly. 
 
  
  The dungeons are neat, but the Temple of the Ocean King was the worst idea that I have ever seen 
 in a video game. You have to keep repeating the dungeon over and over after each dungeon, and I'm 
 afraid that not even shortcuts and a half way point can excuse Nintendo's need to torture their 
 fans. This, combined with the simple nature of other dungeons, the sailing, and odd ways to progress 
 the game just kill the replay value in its tracks. How did I beat Twilight Princess 3 times in 
 one month, when It's been two months since Phantom Hourglass came out, and I can't bring myself 
 to play through again?
  
  The bosses are easy, but neat. They utilize the DS' controls very well, and are a sheer joy to 
 play. The final boss was particularly entertaining, and the game's main villain was pretty neat. 
 Bellum is no Ganon, but I give him credit for getting his evil across without talking. The closest 
 villain to Bellum would be Gaia from Grandia. You'll find that they're very alike. 
  
  The graphics are (obviously) a huge downgrade from Wind Waker, but they're still mighty impressive 
 for a DS game. Phantom Hourglass lookas like the N64 version of Wind Waker, and I see that as a 
 great accomplishment. Nintendo knows how to make a game look great on a technically weak console. 
 The textures can get ugly, but you'll like the goofy character design (Especially everything about 
 that goofball, Linebeck) . This is a powerful acheievement, folks. 
  
  The sound can hurt, mainly because there's practically zero variety between town and dungeon themes, 
 and there's no spoken dialogue. We get a few nice nostalgic tunes (The pirate theme, Zelda's Theme, 
 and lots of stuff from Wind Waker) , but few really stand out. But I must admit, the final boss 
 music was INCREDIBLE. Leave the epic for last, as always. It also doesn't help that the DS' puny 
 speakers make the sound difficult to hear unless you're in a silent room. I hope Nintendo sets 
 their sights higher with the next Zelda installment. 
  
  The game is good, but that's all it has going for it. There are a few familiar and pleasant things, 
 and it can be very compelling, but it doesn't match up to Nintendo's refusal to make revolution 
 from their latest consoles. If they can make Super Mario Galaxy an absolute thrill, why not do 
 the same for Zelda? We need orchestrated music, voice acting, and true REVOLUTION. If they don't 
 get started on making these hopes a reality, I truly believe that the big N's current success will 
 be short lived. I know there's a problem when my favorite franchise does not compel me to play 
 a second round, and it's about time for Nintendo to take advantage of their potential while they 
 still have the lead. 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: FailWithAPh
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 29, 2007 10:14 pm PT
Review:  I bought the Gold Triforce emblazoned DS thinking that it would only be for my brother because 
 he had been bothering me about getting one. After seeing my brother play it a bit, I thought it 
 looked fun and I decided to give it a go.
  I must say that it was ambitious to make a Zelda game controlled solely by the touch screen, but 
 it worked perfectly. I really like the graphics, cut scenes or otherwise. The dungeons prove to 
 be no obstacle in the beginning of the game, but as the game progresses they get better. One aspect 
 of the game that I really like is that you don't know what will happen if you use a certain item 
 at a certain place until you try it out. Boss battles aren't solely dodge, dodge, and strike a 
 whole bunch of times.
  Phantom Hourglass makes great use of both the bottom and the touch screens. One handy addition 
 is the ability to draw on your map as things are revealed like secret islands or the order in which 
 to pull levers. Your notes are displayed on your map which is usually shown on the top screen.
 
  One thing that hindered me from giving the game perfect score is the constant return to the Temple 
 of the Ocean King. The game forces you to constantly return to the beginning island and to trek 
 through the Temple many times throughout the game. Besides the fact that you go through it so many 
 times, I think the Temple is great fun.
  All in all, it's a great game and it's worth the money. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: painter015k
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 29, 2008 12:50 pm PT
Review:  Phantom Hourglass is cannot be described as just AWESOME. The game is absolutely addictive and 
 the humor is actually funny. The graphics are some of the BEST to ever hit the DS and puzzles found 
 in the dungeons are challenging, but the lack of backtracking just makes dungeons feel quicker 
 than usual. The beginning of the game is too easy, but that's all made up for in later dungeons 
 and the infamous Temple of the Ocean King. It's not that I don't like the Temple of the Ocean King, 
 it's just that the time limits bring down alot of pressure towards the end-game and it's one of 
 THE most tedious dungeons in the game. The storyline is perfectly executed and the faster sea travel 
 is a relief. It was ambitious to have a Zelda game rely totally on the touchscreen for controls, 
 but it's nailed! Every inch of this game is perfection. If you don't have a DS... get one! Phantom 
 Hourglass is a must and you won't regret getting it, trust me on that one!!:) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: meowcow22
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 29, 2007 9:05 am PT
Review:  It's a really good game that you can't do easily by yourself the weapons and characters are gr8 
 with an amazing storyline. I'm nearly complete but have still to defeat bellom the 1st time! It's 
 a very good game all the ship parts are a very good idea. But the game needs a lot more length 
 it is a very short game and if you know what your doing it's done in about 8 hours. Unfortunately 
 i was awful at this game and cheated a bit. : ( But the game has funny storylines with good characters 
 gr8 graphics and good bad guys it doesn't lack in any areas but for me it wasn't the fantasticly 
 amazing game I was expecting it to be a great game non-the-less. Frost Island is my favourite level. 
 But the fairy's aren't really good or funny. And the power ups are annoying you want to be Link 
 not some Fire-Sworded loony! 9/10 for me classic Legend of Zelda Game well worth the 30! Meowcow22 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Jon376
Rating: 6.5
Date: Nov 28, 2007 6:01 pm PT
Review:  I am a little dissapointed by this game. Its not the worst game I ever played but I think it could 
 have been so much better. I think my main complaint with the game is the same as everyone elses. 
 I feel the gameplay is repetitive and boring at times while it can be a lot of fun other times. 
 Obviously the temple of the ocean king is the main problem with the games repetitiveness. On the 
 positive side, I feel the game controls work really well and are much better than I expected. The 
 boss fights are also a lot of fun and interesting. I feel that the graphics while good could have 
 been a lot better. If the d. s has the same graphical power as the n64 then this game should have 
 had more of a 3d style to it like windwaker. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DidiCardoso
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 28, 2007 10:18 am PT
Review:  In The Legend of Zelda: Phantom Hourglass, Link is sailing away with his friend Tetra when they 
 discover a portion of the ocean covered with thick fog. As they enter it, they come across a ghost 
 ship. Tetra decides to board it to explore, but she disappears and Link falls in the water when 
 attempting to rescue her, only to wash up on shore of a strange island, awakened by a fairy. From 
 there on, Link's quest is to find the missing girl, aided by fairies with different powers.
  
  The game is entirely controlled via the touch sceen with the stylus, and in some cases, the 
 microphone. Talking to a character or interacting with an object is as simple as tapping it. Touching 
 the screen indicates where you want Link to move while drawing lines and circles makes him swing 
 his sword. 
  
  The boomerang is controlled by drawing a path, the bow is aimed by dragging the stylus in the direction 
 you want to shoot the arrow, even your ship's route is decided by the path you draw with the stylus. 
 You even get to the point of manually steering your ship through the fog. You can even use the 
 mic for things such as stunning foes or blowing out candles. Other items you will find are the 
 traditional fishing rod and a shovel to dig for treasure and hidden passages.
  
  As the title indicates, the Phantom Hourglass is the powerful artifact Link will have to hunt for. 
 The Hourglass is filled with magical sand that gives him the ability to walk through otherwise 
 dangerous areas. 
  
  The action takes place on the touch screen, with the top screen showing your map. You can open 
 area maps and seacharts at any time and write notes on them. Your writing and markings are saved 
 and you can see them on the top screen.
  
  Finding parts for your ship is actually a pretty big thing in the game. Your ship isn't just a 
 means of transportation, it's a defense mechanism against creatures of the sea and a treasure hunter 
 as well. But you need the right parts to customize it with. As you progress, you will come across 
 a cannon to defend yourself and a crane to salvage treasure from the bottom of the ocean. However, 
 you need to find the treasure maps first, so explore everything.
  
  Salvage is a mini-game where you control the crane to pull up whatever treasure from the depths 
 of the ocean. You don't control it directly though, you must touch the button and slide it in the 
 direction you want it to go, avoiding rocks and enemies. Your crane takes damage too, so you must 
 watch out and be precise in your movements. The goodies you retreive are totally worth it, especially 
 the ship part upgrades and power gems.
  
  There are also shortcuts on the ocean charts. If you see a golden frog hopping in and out of the 
 water, stop your ship and shoot it! These frogs represent tornado points that transport you to 
 other spots on the map. For each spot there is a symbol you must draw on a special tablet (another 
 of the many useful items you come across) in order to call the tornado. 
  
  With all the interactivity in the control system and the several items Link can use, there is a 
 lot of clever puzzles to solve. For example, there are eyes that you shoot with arrows, switches 
 that you can hit with the boomerang, buttons to step on, cracked walls to blow up and blocks to 
 push or pull around. Some riddles go as far as requiring you to trace lines on the map. Add to 
 that several enemies to slash and many traps to avoid. 
  
  The game looks and sounds great. The artwork is cute and very colorful, the animations are very 
 smooth, the cutscenes look especially great, while the music and sound effects are all too familiar 
 and fit right in.
  
  The two downsides are the ship's camera control and the saving system. Although you can save anywhere, 
 anytime, if you save your progress inside a dungeon and quit your game, you will come back at the 
 entrance. But everything you did (such as activating switches or opening doors) will be left intact. 
 
  
  But with so many great features packed into a single cartridge, in the end what you get is an action-packed 
 game with plenty of variety in gameplay that will keep the most perfectionist gamer going at it 
 for a very long time. 
  
  Review text part of Grrlgamer. com. Full text and screenshots at http://www. grrlgamer. com/review. php? g=phantomhourglass 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: JSM02C
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 28, 2007 5:38 pm PT
Review:  Quite entertaining, the Graphis are great for a portable game, the controls are easy to learn, 
 its not too easy or to hard to play, the music just like the older games, the characters are well 
 designed, the pulzes are good planned some are easy others not that much, perfect for a starter 
 like me since its the very first time I ever play a Nintendo Game, it was totally worth it to buy 
 its another great addition to the Zelda collection I have seen the other games, but never played 
 them. Now that Im playing it I cant stop since the last seven Hours, that I bought the game and 
 sistem really nice, its seems that I will be playing zelda from now on. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bigguy7786
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 27, 2007 5:15 pm PT
Review:  I have heard the reviews complaining about the handling of the game play, which only takes about 
 1/2 hour to master, if that. The graphics are aesthetically beautiful on the DS. They blew my mind 
 away on how smoothly they progressed. The new characters and world of Windwaker, although was a 
 little off from the usual Zelda games, was still a little linear, but still fun. The game was a 
 little short for my tastes, due to most Zelda games being roughly around 30 hours. The only major 
 complaint i have other than it being a little short, was that the phantom hourglass temple (I'm 
 not gonna give names to spoil) is so repetitive with the tasks needed. I know it also followed 
 the standard ideal of the storyline as well, Zelda (tetra) is stolen or under a spell, find the 
 first set of orbs, then unravel the story plot, then get the main pieces of an objected needed 
 to destroy the final boss. old idea, but still so fun! Buy it and love it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: JazzySax4559
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 27, 2007 12:49 am PT
Review:  The DS is probably one of the most ingenious systems that Nintendo has ever developed (I'm starting 
 to fall in love with the WII) . When the Nintendo said that they were going to be launching Zelda: 
 Phantom Hourglass I couldn't wait. The first few minutes of playing, my love for the Zelda was 
 magnified. I can't think of a better way of playing this game than on the DS. 
  The puzzles, yet challenging, felt very rewarding once you figured them out. Getting to the next 
 levels were very intriguing and not very difficult (There was enough difficulty to make the game 
 enjoyable) . The mini games were fun and if you pay attention, some actually help you with a boss 
 battle... I'll let you figure out which one. 
  The characters, as always, were very captivating. Most of the time you are chuckling to yourself 
 while playing. One of things that really drew me to this game was the graphics. Not too much and 
 not too cheesy. Just enough to really enjoy the gameplay. The music, although redundant, was very 
 classic and memorable from past Zelda games.
  Although this might not be the best among some gamers, I believe that this game is definitely a 
 standard for a lot of DS games coming out. It has the total package and one major contribution, 
 creativity. I have been a Zelda fan for years. I have fell in love with the storylines, the characters, 
 the gameplay. It is what makes this franchise immortal. 
  So if this is your first Zelda game, you will have fun. If this is another notch in your Zelda 
 belt, you will not be disappointed. This is recommended to all who just love using their DS system 
 to its fullest ability and also just have fun playing a very reliable classic. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: indigoAK200
Rating: 8
Date: Nov 26, 2007 4:15 pm PT
Review:  The Good
  
  New controls make the game feel fresher than it really is; the Penguin people are totally cool; 
 There's no end of the universe plot for once; Ganon's on the sidelines.
  
  The Bad
  
  Middling presentation has neither standout visuals nor standout audio; Storyline masks the same 
 Zelda formula that's been used for nearly two decades; Short for a Zelda game; No difficulty whatsoever.
 
  
  Story
  
  It all boils down to the fact that there's nothing really new here in the story department. For 
 those that have traveled roads long worn in the Zelda franchise, Phantom Hourglass is of the same 
 material you've always been used to. Tetra - Princess Zelda's re-imagining introduced in Wind Waker 
 - and her good friend Link have set off to explore the boundless oceans after saving the memory 
 of Hyrule and settling Gandondorf's evil scheme once and for all (well, until he brings himself 
 back from the dead... again. It will happen. Trust me.) . But in typical Legend of Zelda fashion, 
 the duo don't get very far before Tetra is captured by the devious Ghost Ship and Link is forced 
 once again to set off in search of his beloved princess. The story doesn't really get much deeper 
 than this. Unlike previous Zelda games, there's no real plot that threatens the very fabric of 
 the universe. The goal of the game is simply to rescue Tetra from her rather bleak outlook at the 
 hands of the terrifying Ghost Ship. Sure, Link will be thrown around from location to location 
 in search of various objects that will undoubtedly either weaken of reveal some sort of evil power, 
 but if you're looking for something that blazes new ground - you're not going to find it. As for 
 how long the story is... dedicated DSers should be able to finish the game in around six to eight 
 hours. I capped in at just under eight.
  
  Gameplay
  
  Where Phantom Hourglass really shines is in its gameplay. I mean, after all this is the first true 
 Legend of Zelda game created for Nintendo's new generation of systems. The biggest thing you'll 
 notice is that the ABXY buttons don't do anything. You can press them all you want and you won't 
 get anywhere. Nope, that's not how you do things. Instead, you use the stylus. Want to swing your 
 sword? Draw a quick line between Link and his foe and he'll slash. How about that fancy swirly 
 attack that Link is so famous for? To do that you just draw a quick circle around Link and watch 
 him go. To move link, you drag the stylus around the screen which will make Link follow his little 
 fariry/pointer companion. The further towards the edge of the screen you drag the stylus, the faster 
 link will run. Of course, it's not these basic commands that make Phantom Hourglass what it is. 
 It's the items like the Bombchus and the Boomerang. Remember in Ocarina of Time when the Bombchus 
 pretty much went in a straight line? Well, in Phantom Hourglass they follow the path you draw for 
 them on the bottom screen. Same thing with the Boomerang. This adds some twists to the game's puzzles 
 and makes for some interesting challenges along the wall - although these challenges will never 
 be anything to wrack your brain over. Of course, you're probably wondering about all that water 
 you keep hearing about. Well, in true Wind Waker sequel style, Phantom Hourglass takes place in 
 a world filled with islands and a whole lot of water. Fortunately, travelling between islands in 
 Phantom Hourglass is much easier (and faster) than it was in Wind Waker. All you do is simply pull 
 out your sea chart, draw a course with your stylus, and hit the Go button on your ship's little 
 nav panel. Then just let it go.
  
  While all of these touch mechanics may sound like they take a bit of getting used to, there's really 
 no learning curve here. Phantom Hourglass is in no way a hard game and it almost feels as though 
 Nintendo toned down the difficulty in this first touch release so that people new to the franchise 
 could get their bearings without too much of a hassle. Many of the dungeons puzzles are relatively 
 easy to figure out and none of the require any outright notes or backtracking. Phantom Hourglass 
 seems to be designed as smooth sailing from start to finish.
  
  Presentation
  
  There's not much to talk about in this department. In keeping with Wind Waker's art style, Phantom 
 Hourglass makes use of a lot of cel-shading techniques and swirlies. In most cases, the game doesn't 
 different from the presentation given in The Minish Cap - Nintendo's Wind Waker-esque sequel for 
 the Game Boy Advance. Like most of the Zelda handheld adventures, the world looks like it was built 
 for midgets - there's nothing incredibly tall here and the maps are broken up into sections and 
 rarely presented in one continuous screen. The game's color pallete is pretty conservative as well, 
 there's nothing blindinly bright, but nor is there anything seedingly dark. the game kind of middles 
 out in the color department. As for audio, this is your typical Zelda handheld fair. It seems as 
 though Nintendo kind of took most of the basic sounds from Wind Waker and Minish Cap and kind of 
 threw them into the package. There are some new music pieces here and there, but nothing that will 
 wow you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: eygpt99
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 26, 2007 9:49 am PT
Review:  the touch screen's uses in this game are very innovative. When i started playing this for the first 
 time I thought that the touch screens uses for the game would cause it to suck. After a couple 
 battles i was surprised how easy and fun it could be.
  It's a little easy , and in my opinion very short but i think that is only because it was very 
 addictive. I found my self playing till 12 while i have school the next day. 
  If u want a very fun, ( but a little short) ; DS game Phantim hourglass is a your best bet 
::::::

::::::
UserName: towelie892
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 25, 2007 5:16 pm PT
Review:  The Legend of Zelda series has always been known for having cool gadgets, great dungeons and memorable 
 boss fights, and Phantom Hourglass is no different. It combines great, innovative controls with 
 classic Zelda gameplay for a great portable adventure.
  
  The story is a direct sequel to the Wind Waker. Tetra is taken captive on an evil ghost ship and 
 you need to rescue her. You wake up on an island where you meet a fairy called Ciela, who will 
 serve as your guide throughout the game.
  
  The controls in the game are fantanstic. To make Link walk simply touch a point on the screen and 
 he will run toward it; the farther the point is from him the faster he'll run. You can pick up 
 objects by tapping them and throw them by tapping where you want them to be thrown. Swinging your 
 sword is done by drawing a line or tapping an enemy. Plus, all the different items are used with 
 different controls, like drawing a path for your boomerang or pulling back on your bow to shoot 
 an arrow. The controls are so good that just walking around is fun. How many games can you say 
 that about?
  
  Sailing is much better than in Wind Waker thanks to the fact that you don't have to constantly 
 change the direction of the wind. You simply draw a path for your boat and enjoy the ride.
  
  Dungeons are designed well but are also the main annoyance in the game. The puzzles in dungeons 
 rarely span more than one room, making them far too easy. Usually as soon as you get a key you 
 are very close to where you need to use it and you almost never have multiple keys. Also, another 
 annoyance is the note-taking feature. You can write notes on your map for future use. The problem 
 is that the designers seemed to like this idea a bit too much. Far, far too many puzzles revolve 
 around simply reading a sign and taking a note of the order in which something must be done.
  
  The graphics in the game are stunning, with the style just like that of the Wind Waker. If 
 you're not a fan of toon Link however, you'll be disappointed. Sound is good too with great music, 
 but of course no voice acting, although there is a fair amount of grunts and yelps from Link. It 
 really is better off without voice acting though.
  
  Phantom Hourglass is a great game and the first Zelda to appear on the DS. The only problem is 
 the difficulty in that it is far too easy. Don't let this complaint stop you from picking it up 
 though; it shouldn't be missed.
  
  Gameplay - 8
  Graphics - 10
  Sound - 9
  Value - 8
  Overall (not an average) - 8.5 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bajabud
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 25, 2007 10:14 am PT
Review:  This is such an easy game to pick up and play. The stylus-based navigation is a bit different, 
 and some have their issues with it, but I really enjoyed the departure from the D-Pad. The challenges 
 were on the easy side for a game in the Zelda franchise, but I wasn't heartbroken over it. The 
 power-ups and item pickups were familiar as Nintendo sticks with what they know best (Sword, Boomerang, 
 Bow & Arrow, etc...) . Lots of mini-games to play here as side-quests (treasure salvaging, bow & 
 arrow shooting gallery, cannon firing course to name a few) . 
  
  All told, I played this game for 10-15 hours on planes, in hotel rooms, in airports and eventually 
 on my couch and it was enough of a distraction to really make me forget just how small airplane 
 seats can be. A few of my co-workers played this game at the same time and it was really fun to 
 compare notes on our progress. I highly recommend picking this one up! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Maxned
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 24, 2007 9:12 pm PT
Review:  Wind waker was a game which many loved, and many felt very different about. Phantom hourglass will 
 do the exact same thing, with each strange but intuitive control scheme and its non-hyrule field 
 feel.
  
  Graphics - 9.5 One of the best ive seen on the DS
  
  Control - 9 Although there are some issues with drawing things on the the slate and during a certain 
 boss fight, it still surprises me with its unique movement system and awesome way of using items.
 
  
  Gameplay - 9 very fun sailing through the seas with plenty to do and with some great controls along 
 with it, its an extremely fun combo. My only gripe about the adventure was that there was a certain 
 level called Temple of the Ocean King. You had to return here over 5 times and it was INCREDIBLY 
 annyoing. 
  
  Sound - 8 Unfortunately, the music could have been better. Only several tracks existed. However, 
 sound effects were excellent and it really shouldn't wreck the game for you.
  
  Replayabilty - 10 Plenty to explore, treasure to catch, dozens of side quests, fishing, minigames. 
 Its all in Zelda.
  
  
  Overall - 9.3 (not an average, moved to a 9)
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: malachi_27
Rating: 8.5
Date: Apr 5, 2008 7:53 pm PT
Review:  The Legend of Zelda: Phantom Hourglass is, plain and simple, fun. The game is so interactive with 
 the DS's touchscreen and microphone capabilities, it is a blast to play. 
  
  A direct sequel to one of the greatest Zelda game, the Wind Waker. Yes, it is a direct sequel. 
 No, I am not fond of the idea, but it doesn't hold me back from buying it. 
  
  It stinks because I don't have much to type; the game is interactive, you get four ocean locations 
 to explore; map out where you want to go; solve great interactive puzzles; interesting, though 
 not challenging, boss battles. 
  
  The reason why I say it is not perfect is because you constantly have to travel back to the Temple 
 of the Ocean King and find the next sea chart. Every time you enter, it gets harder; harder phantoms 
 and enemies. There is another reason . . . but I just know what it is. It is just missing something. 
 I just think the game could have been a whole lot better. Jeez . . . anyway, I do recommend you 
 get it even if you haven't played Wind Waker. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 510rockyhwd
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 24, 2007 4:39 pm PT
Review:  new zelda game with a twist. you can use the ds pin to move [that is hard for me to do] and do other 
 things to. i do not have this game but i played it=) and it is fun. it is like zelda mixed with pirates. the 
 only zelda game that you can use the screan to move. i know my spelings off but besids that the 
 game is good. most of all its a zelda game and zelda games are allways the best!!! you can check 
 out other ratings and reviews on my profile. if you want you cam send a messege and track me. zelda 
 is the best and this zelda game shows it!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: RedGuy93
Rating: 9
Date: May 7, 2008 5:28 pm PT
Review:  
  
  The Legend of Zelda: Phantom hourglass is an intense, exciting game. It features many exciting 
 places full of depth and gratitude of the Legend of Zelda series. It's one of those games that 
 made my jaw agape.
  
  Control: 8.5/10
  The controls are pretty awesome in the fact that you move around with the stylus itself. It's the 
 first Legend of Zelda DS game that truly focuses movement based on the stylus. Another good point 
 about the controls is that they are all explanatory in matter of how to do them. One thing I don't 
 like about it is that they depend too much on controls on the stylus. Hardly anything relies on 
 the X, B, Y, or A buttons. It is also hard because you do so much controlling at once on the stylus 
 and it is hard to not do more than one thing at once. The AI of the game is somewhat good.
  
  Graphics: 9.4/10
  The graphics are pretty good, and hae good quality. When the story scenes 
 come into action, the graphics look just like The Windwaker or any Legend of Zelda game with Toon 
 Link in it. They are also clear and understandable, and are functionally colorable. Even without 
 contacts or glasses I can depict the exact qualities and comprehend the dimensions of the graphics 
 themselves (sorry, tried to act really smart there, don't no what I just said, also, I don't where 
 contacts or glasses, I'm a jock XD) . The only flaw is at some points the graphics become blurry 
 and glitchy. Also, to add onto that, for a DS game, they're pretty good, but not great when you 
 compare them to other graphics for game made for the DS.
  
  Sound: 9.5/10
  The sound is particularly good and is good for my grandma who doesn't have good hearing (don't 
 worry, my grandma isn't a gamer) . The music is also classic just like the other Legend of Zelda 
 games. I also still love the music when you get something good or powerful or when you open an 
 unlocked door. The sound is pretty good for a DS game, but I've heard better. It's definitely in 
 the top 5, so you deaf people reading this letter could hear it too :) .
  
  Difficulty: 8.8/10
  It's not particularly meant to be an easy game. Phantom Hourglass is designed 
 to screw you. They play you at the beginning to make it look easy, then WHAM it's difficult at 
 the middle to the end of the game. But you gotta give Nintendo credit for not making this difficulty 
 rate a pushover. It exceeded other LOZ difficulty expectations, so that's all that matters.
  
  Gameplay: 9.5/10
  The gameplay of Phantom Hourglass is superb. Using the phantom hourglass 
 is so fun because it depends on your time rate to complete a mission and you can stop time in its 
 tracks with it. Also, the levels are well thought out and fun to play. Using the sword and boomerang 
 is a blast and it is fun to destroy classic monsters. I also like how you can interact with the 
 water and other new places in the game. There are a lot of hidden rupees and items in the game 
 to find and look for. Plus, it's a Legend of Zelda game; you have to give it some prps for that. 
 The only flaw from being a 10/10 for gameplay in Linneaus, the fat lazy hobo that journeys around 
 with you. He doesn't do anything and always complains. He's so dang annoying, a waster of animation 
 and a character. Also, I don't like the fairy that tags along. If he didn't complain to Linneaus 
 all the time in the game, I would be okay with her. But, I'm not. Oh well. Nine point out of ten 
 it is.
  
  Fun: 9.8/10 
  This game is just plain fun, an instant classic. I couldn't drop the DS at first, but then I did, 
 and then I picked it right back up. Besides some minor flaws, this game is a blast. Good job Nintendo, 
 and go Toon Link!
  
  Total Score: 9.25/10
  GameSpot Rounded Score: 9/10
  Grade: A-
  Two Words: Beastly Swordplay
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: skillzdatkillz0
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 23, 2007 3:53 pm PT
Review:  Zelda is one of the few Nintendo staples left that manages to hold up its name with every new game 
 in the series released. It seems that every time a new Zelda is released the bar is raised again 
 and the same can be said of the Phantom Hourglass.
  A continuation of the Wind Waker legend was exactly what I was hoping for and this game has managed 
 to bring back Link, Tetra and even Niko exactly as they appeared on GameCube (well despite a lower 
 pixel count and resolution) . Right from the outset the game feels great to play. A stable frame 
 rate, fantastic ambient sound effects and an innovative control system make it all the easier to 
 pick up and play.
  The game rarely frustrates, despite the touch-heavy system, and only a few times did I find myself 
 throwing a bomb when I wanted to start running or vice versa. These controls serve The Phantom 
 Hourglass well and allow for a whole host of exciting new puzzles and encourage an even broader 
 range of thought for solving them. 
  The ability to draw on your map is a fantastic addition and makes it easier to navigate dungeons 
 successfully.
  The graphics are top of the range. Nintendo has managed to create a game that, while being 3-Dimensional, 
 still looks great and has wide and detailed surroundings. The colours are appropriately bright 
 and appealing, continuing with Wind Waker's "cell shaded" theme and the lower amount of polygons 
 is only really noticeable in the close-up cut scenes.
  The Phantom Hourglass could almost be described as a hybrid of the old SNES and Gameboy style Zelda 
 games and the newer 3rd person games. Many of the enemies from the Gameboy games remain (Crows, 
 Snakes and those erratic Bats all return) whilst more recent additions also make an appearance 
 (Chu-chus are ever-present) . However whilst the older games could be punishingly tough and occasionally 
 difficult to navigate, this game is more appropriate for kids and newcomers to the Zelda series.
 
  
  Overall this game is, to me, the first real "must have" of the DS collection and a worthy successor 
 to Wind Wakers legacy.
  
  sdk 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: mmntw27
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 22, 2007 7:04 pm PT
Review:  Man, oh, man was I waiting in line at GameStop for my copy of this. I got my hands on it when it 
 came out and immediatly locked myself in my room. And what did I come out with? This review!
  
  First Impression:
  Well, being a huge Zelda fan, I knew that I wasn't going to be dissapointed 
 by Phantom Hourglass. And I wasn't. The first thing that's amazed me was when I started the game. 
 This game has some awsome graphics for a DS game. It's amazing what Nintendo is able to pull off 
 with there little system. The only thing that I didn't like was Link looked a little.... big headed... don't 
 know why but he just does... oh well.
  
  Onto the story. This might cause some of you Zelda fans to go into shock and suffer from heart 
 failure, but it doesn't involve Gannon/Gannondorf/Vatii kidnapping Zelda. Phantom Hourglass is 
 a direct sequal to Wind Waker, (which many of you Zelda fans gave horrible ratings, you-) , so if 
 you did beat Wind Waker, good for you. Zelda and Link come across a ship called the Ghost/Phantom 
 Ship, and Zelda decides to climb onto said ship... by herself... (blonde...) and the ships sails 
 away and Link tries to grab on as this is happening. However, Link can't hold on for that long 
 and falls off the ship and floats away to small island off shore. I guess I shouldn't spoil anymore 
 for such a great game.
  
  Lasting Impression:
  Let's see... what to talk about... first we'll talk about the control scheme. It will take a while 
 for anyone to get used to, but by the time you get used to it, you'll be pretty darn happy that 
 Nintendo made it so. It makes the entire game easy to play. The whole game is controlled with the 
 stylus. The first time I heard that you had to move and use your sword with the stylus, I thought 
 that it was going to be difficult. I'm suprised as to how easy it is to do. You can move around 
 by toughing where you want to go, and your to use your sword is as easy as tapping an enemy or 
 quickly slashing your screen. The items you get later on make great use of it as well, such as 
 using the boomerang. It is so much fun to use it. Some of the other items will allow other uses 
 too, such as the grappling hook being used as a tightrope.
  
  Going from island to island in Wind Waker did get... tedious after a while, but in Phantom Hourglass 
 it's fast and simple to go from island to island. You draw your path, and off you go. You can also 
 customize your ship with various parts you find or buy to increase it's stamina. Ship battles are 
 also quite simple in this as apposed to WW as well. You just tap the screen to shoot your cannons 
 at the enemy. Simple, yet fun to do.
  
  This game uses every single function that the DS can pull off, from stylus battles to screaming 
 for a lower price for a tool, to even having to close your DS to ''press'' a seal againest your 
 sea chart (I was confused at first, until I shut my DS there to help my mom, and then opened it 
 back up and, voila!) It is so much fun to do some of the puzzles in the game and figure stuff out.
 
  
  But here's what I thought the biggest problem was: The game was simple. There wasn't one part of 
 the game that I was stuck for more than a minute or two. However, there's so much fun stuff to 
 do that it really doesn't matter how hard it is. It's just plain fun.
  
  Last Words:
  This game is the biggest reason to own a DS currently. It's innovative use of the stylus will captivate 
 you and it makes a wonder collection to any Zelda fan's library.
  
  Graphics: 10/10
  Amazing. Somply amazing what Nintendo has manage to pull off with the graphics. It looks extremly 
 close to WW.
  
  Gameplay: 9/10
  An amazing control scheme, the use of every function the DS has to offer, fun to use items, and 
 minigames make it all the worthwhile. The easy dungeons are very forgivable.
  
  Sound: 9/10
  The music is top notch, and the sound effects match everything perfectly, to the 
 sound of the seas to the echos in caves.
  
  Fun Factor: 10/10
  Extreamly fun to play and easy to get hooked to. You probably won't stop playing for days on end.
 
  
  Overall: 9.5/10
  If you didn't get this when it first came out, by all means, go pick it up now. You'll enjoy one 
 of the greatest games to flow onto the DS. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mao6542
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 22, 2007 6:26 pm PT
Review:  I was skeptical at first with this game only because I knew the continuation for Wind Waker was 
 on the DS. However, I decided to go with it and did not regret it at all. The overall game experience 
 easily keeps the tradition of great Zelda games going. This is one of the few games that truly 
 shows what the DS can do concerning graphics. Very sharp along with a nice flow of movements. The 
 sound was as good as any Zelda game can get with all the traditional tunes included. The game play 
 was very impressive and I enjoyed the storyline as well as all characters included. This game really 
 packs a punch and I would recommend it to anyone including non Zelda fans. It was very addicting 
 and kept me coming back right after I would turn it off. A must play for all Zelda junkies. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: wii -- x360
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 20, 2007 2:29 pm PT
Review:  If there was one word to describe the legend of Zelda the Phantom Hourglass it would be wow! The 
 Phantom Hourglass is the best sequel I ever played. Even though this game is basically the same 
 story as the last game. It still lives up to the Zelda games high standards. The game picks up 
 right were the windwaker left off. The games graphics are great looking for a DS game they almost 
 look exactly the windwaker's graphics which is very impressive. The game also has great dialouges 
 so they are worth reading. The game also makes the best use of the DS's touch screen it almost 
 use no buttons. Sailing is a breeze this time around all you have to do is draw aline to wear you 
 want to go. It also throws in a multiplyer which would be fun for you and your friends to play 
 but nothing special. Great bosses make the game even better than its presider. All and all a great 
 game that anyone with a DS shoul pick up. My score is a 9.5 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mariofan22
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 19, 2007 9:42 pm PT
Review:  Phantom Hourglass, is in my opinion, one of the must-have games for the Nintendo DS. It has incredible 
 graphics: the cel-shaded look that hearkens back to Wind Waker still looks great on the DS. The 
 stylus controls are simply fun to use, and actually really easy. Moving around is as simple as 
 a tap to the screen - so is an attack. It's all so easy, that it almost removes part of the challenge 
 from the game... which can be a good or bad thing, depending on your opinion of previous Zelda 
 games.
  
  This game's biggest change from the traditional Zelda gameplay (apart from the ship, which we've 
 somewhat seen before) is the ability to write on maps. For someone who's largest problem in Zelda 
 games was "remembering the order" of the switches three stories up, it's a godsend.
  
  The sailing has returned from Wind Waker - only this time, it's incredibly fun and intuitive. Simply 
 draw on the chart where you want to sail to. Then you sail to it. On the way, you fire your cannon 
 at bad guys.
  
  ... pretty simple stuff. Which brings us to our next problem - the difficulty of the game. There 
 isn't really a simple climb to harder levels at the end of the game... instead, the game opted 
 to go for an "all over the place" approach. The different dungeons are tons of fun as you go through 
 them, whether they be the ice or fire castles, each one has a unique personality that just makes 
 you smile as you solve the puzzles. The one that ruins the game however, is the Temple of the Ocean 
 King - the first time you go in, it isn't that bad... but by the fifth or sixth time, as you attempt 
 to go further in further in (every floor has invincible guards... just to give you an idea about 
 how idiotic this is) , you just wish it would start you off at the place you ended the last time. 
 In around the third visit, you do get a checkpoint... but it's the third visit. If anything, this 
 is the largest design flaw of the entire game.
  
  The Temple of the Ocean King is what's caused me to dock so many points from this game - other 
 than that, this game is an incredible success, and I recommend it to anyone lucky enough to own 
 a DS. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Cursed_Shadow
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 19, 2007 9:33 pm PT
Review:  The Legend of Zelda: Phantom Hourglass is a new Zelda game that has come out relatively short after 
 the release of the Wii's Twilight Princess. This time a younger version of Link is sailing with 
 a few other people and they come across a Ghost Ship. A girl named Tetra jumps on and this is where 
 the story begins.
  
  Gameplay: Like the Zelda games before this one, it is riddled with puzzles and quests. The puzzles 
 can be rather challenging at times, and you just become so frustrated that you jump onto the computer 
 to check the FAQs, but they're still enjoyable and you'll find that you'll be kicking yourself 
 to some of the answers to the puzzles.
  The game is a long one, with plenty of things to explore. The game does lack things to do after 
 you beat the game however. With only a few minigames that aren't too great, you will find yourself 
 leaving it alone for a while.
  To combat this, there is wifi gameplay... but if you find that enjoyable... your an odd one.
  
 
  Graphics: This game has some of the best graphics of any DS game i've seen! all the 3D looks great 
 and the environments are colourful and attractive.
  
  Sound: The music isn't too bad, i never found myself turning off the sound purely because it was 
 annoying me. The characters don't make many sounds, with some just saying 'HEY!', or nothing at 
 all.
  
  Value: The game is really good for your first run through, enjoying all of its humour, original 
 bosses and good gameplay. The lack of things to do after the game bring it down however, although 
 the wifi does aim to stop this, wifi play gets repetitive quickly however.
  
  All in all: Its a good game, and one simply must play.
  
  The good: good humour placed in, 
 characters have their own obvious personalities, long game, wifi play, customisable boat
  The bad: limited things to do after completion, dissapointing and repetitive wifi play 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Wolflink001
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 10, 2008 10:51 am PT
Review:  
  Released October 1st of 2007 for the Nintendo Ds, The Legend Of Zelda the Phantom Hourglass sparked 
 attention to Zelda fanatics all around the world!
  
  The Storyline takes place right after The Legend Of Zelda~ Windwaker ! After defeating the evil 
 Ganondorf and saving not only princess Zelda but the entire Great Sea, Link, Tetra (she's really 
 princess Zelda) and her loyal band of pirate thugs set off to discover new lands! I guess maybe 
 a couple of months later or a year into their adventure Tetra hears a rumor about a Ghost Ship 
 that could possibly contain vast wealth. Well... being the pirate that she is, she sets sail to 
 another corner of Great Sea. They happen to find the eerie, creepy, and sinister looking Ghost 
 Ship! Or did it find them...? Rumor, tales, and stories say that people who see the Ghost Ship 
 or find it ARE NEVER SEEN AGAIN!!!! MWH HA HA HA HA! Anyhow... The Ghost Ship parks right next 
 to them. Tetra, the savvy and brave girl that she is wants to get to bottom of everything and that 
 leads her into BIG TROUBLE! She hops on the Ghost Ship only to get struck by a bolt of scary lighting! 
 Her crew watch and listen in horror as she screams and vanishes into thin air! They also watched 
 the menacing Ghost Ship as it started to sail off! But Link, having been through enough in his 
 previous adventure trys to make a dash to save her but he sadly falls into ocean and the Ghost 
 Ship simply sails away and disappears back into the fog!!!
  
  Well, getting to the middle review, I liked the storyline. Very creative and different! It's not 
 everyday that a Ghost Ship gets to play a bad guy! Well done Shigeru!
  
  Graphics: Well, not the best compared to other Zelda titles like on the GameCube or 64 but on the 
 DS they are very well done! Everything is colorful and well animated! It's like your playing Zelda 
 Windwaker portable with the same toon shading that make up this series!
  
  
  Controls: A little difficult and clunky if you ask me! At some parts of the game I just wanted 
 to break the stylus and WALK FOR CRYING OUT LOUD!!!! I feel like following fairy who does not know 
 where she is going unless I touch her! I keep getting caught in damn corners at times too! I miss 
 Navi!!!!!!! The damn ship took awhile for me to understand how to navigate it too!
  
  Difficulty: This game I thought was at times too easy but there are parts of this game that give 
 your brain a run for its money! Some riddles like the mouse with key running from you will piss 
 you off! This game was made players to test the full power and throttle of the Ds technology and 
 not to mention the stylus! But could they have at least made a walk feature? Shessh!!!!!! 
  
  Dungeons: .............. C'mon Nintendo! They were kind of too easy! The fire one was walk 
 in the park. The wind one was too. But the Phantom Dungeon really did challenge me! I can now say 
 that I have beaten the game so I can say that dungeons in this one were too easy! I've been a fan 
 of the series for far to long to be teased with an easy dungeon! I want to really enjoy playing 
 the game and not beat it to fast like some gamers I know....
  
  
  
  Music: Not bad but it does not seem to change up a lot! The dungeon music is pretty much the same 
 cave music playing over and over again! They could have at least added frost music to the ice island! 
 Instead it sounds like you are on an island paradise when really you're on a hunk of ICE!!!!!
 
  
  
  
  
  Value: Yes! This game will be worth something one day! So many amazing things on that little bite 
 sized chip!!! Cherish it always! You are a total loser if you sold it already! 
  
  Tilt: Well, overall... I would recommend this game most definitely to a Zelda fan or to someone 
 who does not even have the game but has the Ds to get it! It has one of the coolest openings cinematic 
 on the Ds with the exception of Final Fantasy III. It would make a great gift around this time 
 year since I am typing this review as we near Christmas time! At first I hated Windwaker link with 
 them big 'ol eyes but now that little runt is growing on me! I just think Linebeck is coolest character 
 in the game because he kind of reminds me of myself...! LOL he does! 
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: AEZAC
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 18, 2007 5:25 pm PT
Review:  The Legend of Zelda: Phantom Hourglass is by far one of the best Nintendo DS experiences. You will 
 complete the game in about 10-20 hours and find it quite short for a Zelda game. There are many 
 ups and downs on the game. The main bad things of the game are that you receive no heart pieces, 
 which to me was a classic in all the LOZ games. Your wallet also holds a ridiculous amount of rupees 
 (9999) which impossible to carry. You'll be spending a lot of your rupees on one of my personal 
 favorite options: ship parts. You can get 72 ship parts to customize your "steam boat" in the game 
 and you can receive them in many ways (mini-games, chests, etc.) The games temples were probably 
 the biggest disappointment to me, I competed the average temple in a bout ten minutes! There very 
 straight forward and you will rarely get stuck in the puzzles. Back to the good things, you can 
 finally draw your path you want to sail instead of changing the wind and sailing everywhere on 
 your own (WW) The entire game map is averaged out quite big giving your 4 map pieces for you to 
 explore with numerous islands with mini-games. That summarizes the main things you should know 
 on LOZ: Phantom Hourglass, and of coarse there is a lot more for you to seek out on the game if 
 you get it. I highly recommend this game to any DS owner, the replay value adds up on Wi-Fi battles 
 so you won't be disappointed with your purchase of only $34.99. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 8smokes
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 18, 2007 3:01 pm PT
Review:  The Legend of Zelda: Phanom Hourglass is a very well crafted game and works beautifly with the DS's 
 touch screen capabilities and format. Each dungeon design is unique and you'll find yourself visiting 
 a bunch of cool, exotic locations around this new world. Gamers familiar with The Legend Of Zelda: 
 WindWaker for the Gamecube, will be impressed and grateful that the sequal they've been begging 
 for turned out amazing! Though Legend of Zelda can be easy at some parts, and most of the boss 
 battles not too difficult and relatively easy, the variety of different puzzles and secrets make 
 the game last about 15-20 hours (Pure Fun) . And the story and dialogue: Priceless. All gamers who 
 have DS, this is a must buy! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Willy105
Rating: 7
Date: Nov 17, 2007 8:53 am PT
Review:  THE GOOD: Stunning graphics, spot-on controls, best cutscenes ever, inventive boss fights.
  
  THE BAD: Terrible level design, disappointing story, hard to use online play, lack of excitement 
 during most of the game.
  
  Nintendo wanted to create a brand new Zelda game for the DS that would be controlled entirely by 
 using the touch screen. This is a great challenge, considering you wouldn't think of a Zelda game, 
 which has always had very complex controls, to work on one touch screen. But somehow, they actually 
 pulled it off. The Legend of Zelda: Phantom Hourglass is a full Zelda game that works entirely 
 on touch screen controls, and there is not one glitch in the entire game. But unfortunately, Nintendo 
 should have spent less time working on perfecting the controls, and instead spent some time actually 
 making the game design fun.
  
  When you first start the game, you will be amazed. This game includes the most impressive opening 
 cinematic ever on any system I have played, mainly because it's all in real time and it's running 
 on the DS. It's not impressive because of the huge number of polygons or the high resolution textures, 
 it's because this is the most flawless animation I have seen since a PIXAR movie. Just about all 
 of the main cutscenes are like this, and the one at the end of the game is worth the ticket price 
 alone! You have to applaud Nintendo for being able to pull of something on the DS that has yet 
 to be seen even on the PSP.
  
  But these big budget cutscenes are worth near to nothing when there isn't a good story to tell. 
 This is very true here. The game has probably the most disappointing story I have ever seen. Even 
 the Halo 2 cliffhanger is barely nothing to cry about compared to this game's story. This game 
 is supposed to be the sequel to The Wind Waker, which had the best story in all of the Zelda games. 
 At the end of that game, the story was open for a sequel, as Link, Tetra, and the pirates went 
 off to find a brand new Hyrule. This game completely forgets about that. Instead, the game deals 
 with they looking for a ghost ship [?] , and Tetra gets kidnapped and turned into stone with Link 
 in hot pursuit. Those looking for a continuation of The Wind Waker will find nothing here. This 
 is more of a spin-off than an actual sequel, and it would have been smarter for Nintendo to create 
 a sequel to one of their most touching and well-written plot lines they have ever made instead 
 of this.
  
  But hey, a Zelda game doesn't need a good story to be good. In fact, the original Zelda game didn't 
 even have a story. All you need for a Zelda game is great dungeons and motivation. Unfortunetaly, 
 this game has neither. Controlling Link is near perfection, but that's nothing if the dungeons 
 are so boring. The dungeons on Phantom Hourglass are repetitive, short, and easy. In past Zelda 
 games, you could spend from a day, to a week, or depending on the person, a month on a single dungeon. 
 With this game you could complete a dungeon in a couple of minutes. Sure, we are talking about 
 a handheld game, but even with that in consideration, the dungeons are just way too short and easy. 
 
  
  Boss fights are another story. They are challenging and fun. It's impressive how the controls make 
 each and every boss fight unique. For example, in one of the temples, there is a boss that is invisible. 
 But in the top screen, it shows from a first person point of view what the boss is seeing. Even 
 though you cannot see the boss itself, you can use both screens at the same time to know where 
 the boss is and attack. In another one, you have to use an item you got to create a trampoline 
 that will deflect enemy fire. The boss fights are very nice, but unfortunately, they have no backstory 
 to them. In Twilight Princess, all of the bosses had a backstory, so there was a reason they were 
 there and what they are. But there is nothing of that on Phantom Hourglass. It's very odd going 
 to a boss and wondering why do you have to kill it other than to get the item it's holding.
  
  But the most insulting fact is The Temple of the Ocean King, a huge dungeon that you have to 
 revisit many times during the game. This dungeon is HORRIBLE. Absolutely horrible. Everytime you 
 complete a dungeon you have to go back to this dungeon so you can open the next dungeon. This alone 
 will kill the game for most people. This is because the dungeon resets itself everytime you get 
 out of it. You have to go through the whole dungeon multiple times and it gets frustrating. This 
 literally makes no sense. Whatever possessed Nintendo to put something like this into the game!?! 
 It's frustrating, it makes you cry, and it stops you from liking the game. This is more absurd 
 that Nintendo made this for the casual in mind. If this is too much for a hardcore gamer, how in 
 the world would a casual respond to this? This absolutely terrible level design is the reason this 
 game is so disappointing in every way.
  
  But wait, there's more! This is the first Zelda game to have online play! But it's not worth your 
 time. The multiplayer component is badly designed as well. The rules of the game and what you have 
 to do is ok, but what is bad is how you do it. Connecting to Nintendo Wi-Fi Connection takes a 
 year, and it takes even longer to find an opponent. What's worse, is that the gameplay is a lag 
 fest. Mario Kart DS doesn't have lag, but yet somehow this game does. So much in fact, it makes 
 the game UNPLAYABLE, because the opponent actually disconnects because of all this lag. 
  
  After the near-perfect Wind Waker and the great Twilight Princess, Phantom Hourglass had a lot 
 to live up to, and it did not make it. The story sucks, the level design is terrible, the online 
 play is broken, and the game is overall boring. But the stunning graphics and cutscenes (especially 
 the one in the beginning and the one in the end) and the perfect control scheme makes the problems 
 a little bit less frustrating. It just could have been a lot more. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: eherosparkman
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 17, 2007 5:51 am PT
Review:  Wow. thats all i can say. You go in there thinking, oh its gona be a game ill never pick up after 
 its done. But its not. Dragging the stylus around on the touch screen to move attack and everything 
 as awsome.
  The bosses were some of the best parts of the game. the first boss ( blazz) he was annoying, the 
 second and third, they were fun. But my favorite boss, had to be Eox, thh big rock guy. takeing 
 your hammer and bounceing yourself into the air to destroy the rocks off his body, thats just plain 
 fun. then you hit him in the head a couple of times to kill him.
  Somthing pretty awsome was the boomarang, you draw its path, now i dont think any normal boomarang 
 can do loops in the air, and still kill a few enemies. I couldnt put this game down, when i had 
 to charge my DS i asked my friend if i can borrow his until mine was done charging to play it.
 
  He lived right next door so it wasnt a problem.
  All im saying is that you CAN judge a book by its cover and also a videogame. just play it when 
 they have it on display, and dont look at the cover. just kidding, it has an alright cover. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Hyrule-master
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 16, 2007 8:10 pm PT
Review:  Wow this is THE BEST Zelda game I have ever seen since OoT (of course OoT is way better) . Zelda 
 is such a faultless game because this is almost ressurecting the old OoT days. The only very very 
 minor thing about this game is how the people look. Its Kind of cartoony, but that does not matter 
 the fact that the gameplay is so good and the story is superior makes this an almost perfect game.
 
  
  Well if I were to rate this game from a scale from 1-10 I would rate it a 10 becauseI love how 
 they put in some of the stuff from OoT and WW. Why I think this is so good: Because of the items 
 in it how you use the items, also, the story line of this game is incredible They come across a 
 patch of ocrean covered in dense fog, in which they discover an abandoned ship. Tetra falls into 
 danger when she explores the ship alone, and Link falls into the ocean when he attempts to rescue 
 her. When he washes up unconscious on the shores of a mysterious island, he is awakened by the 
 sound of a fairy's voice. With the aid of this fair, he sets off to find Tetra - and his way back 
 to the seas he once knew. I love that story I am glad that they made a sequel for Wind Waker. Everyone 
 who agrees with me should send me a message because I am happy that they made this game. If they 
 ever make another game similar to this........ I will be relieved.
  
  
  Being that this game is so good (especially when I am a HUGE HUGE HUGE HUGE Zelda fan) I am hoping 
 that they make another game like this. People, this game is worth buying, it is worth to spend 
 your time in this....
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: hugh_g_reckshon
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 16, 2007 7:37 pm PT
Review:  This game is the most fun I've had with the DS to date. Using the stylus to control Link is intuitive, 
 will take minutes at the most to pick up the controls. Combat can get a little repetitive at times, 
 but the boss fights stay fresh. 
  Navigating the sea isn't the chore it easily could have been and there's plenty of tasks on the 
 side to keep things interesting. Salvaging sunken treasure is a good diversion and isn't overused. 
 There's also uncharted islands to be found for the adventurer type.
  The dungeons and boss fights is where this game really shines if you ask me. They're just the right 
 size and the puzzles are fairly clever at times. The repetition in the Temple of the Ocean King 
 is my only complaint with the dungeons. Each boss fight is different from the last and entertaining. 
 
  All in all a great game with a small bit of repetition and a bit on the easy side. A must buy for 
 the DS. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rowzzr
Rating: 7.5
Date: Nov 15, 2007 2:32 am PT
Review:  OVER-ALL IMPRESSION: might be the least of all the zelda games ever out. it appears only to be 
 a gimmicky controllable zelda to sell the touch screen functions of the DS, whereas it is obvious 
 that the touch controls aren't completely necessary - though many times they are a plus. the most 
 repetitive zelda dungeon in it, with uninspired musical scores. this game doesnt bring anything 
 new, other than the controls.
  
  over-all it is boring. although i am pretty sure many would not be delighted upon reading this 
 review, as it is, after all, a ZELDA game.
  
  -------------------------------------
  
  DIFFICULTY: easy. it's so easy that nintendo "casualized" the gaming in this one. oftentimes, the 
 solutions to puzzles and the locations of treasures and other things in the game are spoon-fed. 
 nothing difficult in it at all. but if you like easy games without any challenge whatsoever, pick 
 up this game and you might like it, especially when you play as you travel.
  
  GAMEPLAY: SAILING: sailing through game in a ship feels like a chore to travel around and nothing 
 more. especially in one part of the game, you will find a person through the seas who will annoy 
 you by following you wherever you go, which makes it feel irritating to travel around even more.
 
  
  TEMPLE OF THE OCEAN KING: the most repetitive dungeon in the game. it is everybody's complaint. 
 this dungeon is the dungeon where you will be returning to everytime you finish a dungeon, in order 
 to obtain some sea charts, and other things. as you progress, there will be shortcuts, however, 
 this will definitely peg down a few of the nostalgia for you and turn it into irritation as many 
 others have described. coming back to the same old dungeon over and over makes you feel like you're 
 playing a chore instead of a game that you would enjoy pressure-free.
  
  CONTROLS: the controls in this game takes getting used to. and feels like nothing more than gimmicky 
 and only stressed out to sell nintendo's point in the DS's controls. rolling makes it a confusion 
 task at the start, but, in time will be quite easy. sometimes slashing your sword the way you want 
 can be a problem - especially when you want to do a spin attack, which the DS oftentimes confuses 
 with a curved slash.
  
  GRAPHICS: the graphics look better than anything we've ever seen on the DS. there's not much to 
 say to that.
  
  SOUNDS: the sounds are very repetitive. you go to towns and/or islands and you are to hear the 
 same theme (s) over and over again. and to top it all off, the theme sounds aren't very good on 
 the ears. they are somewhat irritating which waters down the over-all emotion of the game. same 
 with the dungeons and sailing through the waters, which doesn't actually help but make you feel 
 that sailing is nothing but a minute-by-minute type of chore.
  
  what's also there to ponder on is that nintendo seems to use the same old sounds from older versions 
 over and over again. the "listen" from OOT is one of which. i can't stress this any more than enough. 
 however, i would like you to note that the sounds of link and his slashing are top notch. you may 
 want to slash enemies just for the sound it makes.
  
  STORY: the story is about saving zelda once again, as every other zelda game. only this time, it's 
 set in as a sequel to wind waker, in a time of ships and pirates. although it uses practically 
 the same zelda formula for the past decades, it makes you feel like the game is a RPG. personally, 
 the story this time isn't as much engaging as the others, as it is bound to be boring.
  
  COMMON STUFFS: towns in this game feel very dry, where only few people live in towns, and yet, 
 even fewer of them have anything worthy to say or even read about. when you progress through the 
 game, most of them only say the same things over and over, as compared to other games, where NPC's 
 usually say different things as per your progress. in short, it makes you feel like nothing much 
 happens all through-out.
  
  but the good deal is, some characters are very much icing on cake: such as captain linebeck, who 
 will accopany you throughout the story. there might be some humorous moments, if you are of those 
 with lighter humor than others, this character is one of those looking deeper into.
  
  ONLINE: online may be important to many people. but the online in this game is not much fun at 
 all. your battle is a sneaking game. and people only use the game primarily because of the trading 
 of ship parts involved, because you may customize your ship. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: saga_gemini
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 14, 2007 12:34 am PT
Review:  At first i wasnt sure about this Zelda, but after i played it, i loved it.
  The main characteristic of this Zelda game is that you can do everything without touching a button, 
 everything can be done by just using the stylus. 
  
  The use of the stylus in this game was developed perfectly in mix with the gameplay, this as a 
 result gives cool ways to kill enemies and solve puzzles. by drawing the track of the boomerang 
 or shooting arrows. This game has a good storyline which i think follows up the last "Wind Waker" 
 Zelda, and the use of this style of graphics totally matches with the DS casual handheld player. 
 
  
  As every Zelda this game is based on dungeons and its bosses. here the Bosses are the best part 
 of the game, but it doesnt mean that the dungeons are boring, cuz they arent thanks to the cool 
 puzzles you have to solve.
  
  Since in this game you sail in the sea there are several ship parts in different spots where you 
 can go and use the salvage arm to rescue those parts from the bottom of the sea, this characteristic 
 is more like a sidequest since you dont need to do it, but its deffinetly fun and has replay value.
 
  
  there's also multiplayer mode in this game which can be played online, the multiplayer gameplay 
 is actually really creative and fun, which makes you hold on to this game a lot longer than what 
 you spected.
  
  the only bad thing i could find about this game is that it ended.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: ShippudenNaruto
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 13, 2007 7:36 pm PT
Review:  
  
  It's kind of shocking when you think about it, but despite the Nintendo DS's nearly three-year 
 lifespan, The Legend of Zelda: Phantom Hourglass is the first Zelda game to hit the system. The 
 good news is that it was worth the wait. Phantom Hourglass is essentially a sequel to the GameCube 
 Zelda adventure The Wind Waker. It retains the art style, surrounding world, and plot of that game, 
 but it revamps the mechanics for DS use. The result is a game that is unmistakably Zelda, with 
 its perilous dungeons, tricky puzzles, and engaging boss battles; at the same time, Phantom Hourglass 
 is a unique and innovative entry in the series due largely to its exclusively touch-screen-based 
 control scheme. Everything you do in the game involves taps and swipes of the stylus, from traditional 
 fights and puzzles, to new and specialized functions that really change the way you think about 
 playing a Zelda game.
  
  
  There aren't very many proper sequels in the Zelda universe, but Phantom Hourglass directly follows 
 up on The Wind Waker, and does a great job of it, at that.
  
  Phantom Hourglass picks up almost directly where Wind Waker left off. Link is sailing the high 
 seas with his pirate pals, including Tetra, who has forsaken her Zelda namesake and returned to 
 her roguish ways. At the moment, the crew is on the hunt for a fabled ghost ship, one that purportedly 
 contains a great treasure but also has a nasty habit of making people disappear. Of course, the 
 ship magically appears, and Tetra bounds off to search it. Unfortunately, a shrill scream signals 
 that something's gone wrong, and the ghost ship departs into a thicket of fog. Link leaps after 
 it but ends up in the drink, and he eventually washes up on the shore of a populated island. This 
 is how the game explains away the absence of Link's abilities and items, despite the fact that 
 the game takes place just after Wind Waker chronologically.
  
  Upon awakening on the island, you're greeted by an amnesiac fairy who takes you to a kindly old 
 man who explains a thing or two regarding the ghost ship. Though he warns you away from getting 
 into such business, minutes later you've got a sword in your hand and you're learning the basics 
 of combat. Not that there's a ton to learn, mind you. To make a Zelda game on the DS work, the 
 control mechanics have been simplified to rely only on taps and movements via the stylus on the 
 touch screen. Moving Link requires you to simply drag the stylus in the direction you want to go. 
 You tap an enemy to lunge at it with a slash, do a quick swiping movement to execute a broader 
 slash, and draw circles around Link to perform the spin attack. You also have the ability to roll 
 by drawing small circles at the opposite end of the screen. All of this sounds pretty simple and 
 works about as well as you'd hope, apart from a few moments when you may roll in the wrong direction 
 (and off a cliff) , or accidentally slash something when you're just trying to turn around. However, 
 most of these small gaffes are relatively harmless, and by and large, the responsiveness of the 
 controls is spot-on.
  
  The game probably wouldn't be very interesting if all you did was run around and tap on bad guys 
 to kill them. Fortunately, there's a great deal more to it than that. Apart from your basic sword 
 combat, you'll also find yourself messing around with some other DS-centric mechanics, like blowing 
 or shouting into the microphone for various reasons. Additionally, you will pick up many of Link's 
 trademark items throughout the game -- such as bombs, bombchus (which are little mobile bombs that 
 scurry around) , the bow and arrow, the boomerang, and the hookshot -- and you'll often have to use 
 them to set up various enemies for the kill. These items behave just as you remember them, though 
 with a number of DS-specific mechanical twists that give them whole new life. For instance, with 
 the boomerang, you can now draw with the stylus the path you want it to take. The same goes for 
 bombchus, who will follow your exact drawn path to any target. The hookshot can be used like normal 
 to help Link leap across open crevices, as a tightrope to walk between two ledges, and as a slingshot 
 to launch Link across wide gaps or repel enemy fire.
  
  These items all tie directly into the game's dungeon and puzzle design. Though not as markedly 
 complex as some of Link's previous adventures, Phantom Hourglass contains several challenging and 
 fun dungeons to traipse through, all of which contain a number of tricky puzzles that require some 
 creative item usage. Experienced Zelda fans may find Phantom Hourglass' dungeons to be less of 
 an endeavor than other games in the series, simply because these dungeons don't rely as heavily 
 on elaborate bouts of backtracking and generally aren't enormous in size. That doesn't mean the 
 dungeons aren't fun to solve, mind you. They might not be quite as epic as other Zelda games, but 
 there are plenty of engaging and periodically perplexing puzzles to solve along the way, as well 
 as some truly exciting boss battles that often make stellar use of both screens on the DS.
  
  
  The stylus controls might rub a few people the wrong way initially, but over the course 
 of the game, you'll see how truly innovative they are.
  
  Dungeons would probably be even tougher to deal with if it weren't for the fact that you can now 
 write notes and draw pathways on your dungeon maps. It sounds like a small addition at first, but 
 as you play, you'll discover it's actually one of the most revolutionary features in a Zelda game 
 since, well, ever. Simply being able to sketch pathways over invisible platforms and keep a detailed 
 track of which doors you've hit, which switches need to be hit in what order, and the like, is 
 a huge boon and eliminates a lot of aimless wandering from the equation.
  
  Interestingly enough, you get your dungeon and island maps from the very moment you step foot in 
 or on them, though you do have to track down sea charts to open up new areas of the world. Given 
 that this is a Wind Waker sequel, you will be doing a fair amount of sailing from island to island, 
 but unlike Wind Waker, it's not quite as involved a process. You simply draw a route on your map, 
 and the ship sails there automatically. Over time you'll gain a cannon to fight off sea creatures 
 and pirates (and the occasional sea monster boss) as well as a grappling arm to salvage treasure. 
 Picking up treasure is actually a minigame in itself, in that you have to guide the arm down to 
 the depths and back again without hitting mines that are scattered about.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Whiteghost09
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 13, 2007 6:17 pm PT
Review:  Oh Yeah! I am overcome with a tremendous sense of pride having just beaten this instant classic. 
 It is the first Zelda title I've ever beaten, and I'm praying Mr. Myamoto will give us a sequel 
 in the future. The ocean/ship oriented Zelda "world" goes hand in hand with the DS, and sailing 
 is a fun, engaging breeze (Ha! Get it? Breeze? OK nevermind...) . The story is the best I have ever 
 encountered on a video game (it progresses well and the characters are unforgettable) . Linebeck 
 is awesomely hilarious in the movie like cut-scenes. I won't give away the story, but I will say 
 it could easily be made into a movie (hey, that's a good idea!) . The touch screen controls are 
 a walk in the park, and the use of all of the DS' features is outstanding. This game has you blowing 
 into the mic, yelling (which can be quite embarrassing) , and closing the DS. It makes you wonder, 
 "how do they think of all this stuff?" The level design is another wonder (as its is with all Zelda 
 games) , but the puzzles can be a bit confusing (thank the Lord for Gamespot guides) . Also, you 
 have to go through one temple 6 frikin times (which is the only reason I'm not giving this game 
 a 10) ! All in all, these features all come together to create an amazing, awe-inspiring game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ryroo22
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 13, 2007 2:43 pm PT
Review:  The game starts off relatively simple with the first few boss battles being too easy. After that 
 the game offers more openness with how you do things and get hearts. There is one annoying part, 
 there is a temple that you come back to every time you get a new item and progress in it. The Wi-Fi 
 is a good bonus and the single card play is good. The graphics and controls are amazing as is sound. 
 You will probably at most play it once again since the bosses are really fun. The cut scenes are 
 very good and there is some humor. There is a very good ending too. I would highly recommend this. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Xantiriad
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 13, 2007 10:26 am PT
Review:  For: brilliant (controversial) stylus control scheme; fantastic graphics and sound; decent story
 
  Against: not as much depth as previous Zeldas; plenty of backtracking
  
  Gameplay - 9: The adoption of the stylus based control scheme for this DS Zelda game has significantly 
 improved the core Zelda gameplay that was starting to become predictable and repetitive: drawing 
 the path for your boomerang, pointing to where to throw things, and performing spin attacks has 
 never been so simple, satisfying and fun.
  
  Design - 8: All the classic Zelda design is here: multiple dungeons and lands, kooky characters, 
 mini-games, Rupees, bombs, arrows, etc you know the score. The whole package is greater than the 
 sum of its parts and reflects the quality of design & attention to detail that only Nintendo can 
 do.
  
  Presentation 9 : The game uses the Windwaker look & feel and is just gorgeous. Many of the character 
 models are almost as good as the GameCube predecessor, whilst the 2D/3D isometric view is well 
 defined and detailed. The music, always strong in the series, is once again quite excellent; it 
 really adds a sense of atmosphere and place to each island you visit.
  
  Longevity - 8: A pretty large game, but not quite as long as some of the console-based series, 
 there is still plenty to do in both the main quest, and side quests/mini games.
  
  Overall: 9/10
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Razor_cc_atu
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 13, 2007 8:27 am PT
Review:  This game was GREAT!! 
  
  Some people say that a big drawback to this game is the Ocean Temple. It was this reason that I 
 rated this game a 9.5 instead of a 10. It is a little repetitive but the level design for it is 
 great and they provide good jump points so that you don't have to go through the entire dungeon 
 every time. Also the levels are designed so that as you find new items you can get through the 
 floors faster and faster. I was only angered once when I was going through the Ocean Temple, the 
 rest of the time it was great!.
  
  My overall opinion of this game is that it is one of the best games for the DS. It brings the best 
 of all Zelda's and combines it with great innovative flawless controls. On top of all this is a 
 wonderfully fun multi-player! The trading system was a great addition to this as well.
  
  I would recommend this game to any one and even consider it a reason to get a DS! If you have this 
 game and want to play me, let me know and we can exchange friend codes. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: taybo93
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 13, 2007 5:05 am PT
Review:  Good graphics, Great gameplay, and the interaction this game has with its player is phenominal. 
 like the pros said, the multiplayer isn't anyhting to get exited about but it is still fun to play 
 every now and then!!!!
  
  
  This game gets a 10 from me becasue of the great gameplay!!!!
  This game is great and you should 
 definatly buy this game! Worth every penny!
  
  
  
  great, great, great, great, great, great, great, great, great, great, great, great, great, great, 
 great, great, great, great, great, great, great, great, great, great, great, great, great, great, 
 great, great, great, great, great, great, great, great, 
::::::

::::::
UserName: AgentOfLight
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 12, 2007 11:13 am PT
Review:  Well. I read this game got a 95% in 2 gaming magazines. So I decided to go out and buy it. Believe 
 me, It's worth the money. YOU MAY find some control niggles like your hand covering up the screen 
 because you need to use the stylus but the simple way to fix that is just to approach it from the 
 bottom, or use your other hand. 
  
  GAMEPLAY
  
  9/10.
  
  GOOD
  Epic storyline, (Why do I like Linebeck so much...?) great characters, good use of innovation and 
 the space on the DS cartridge. It's quite a long and fun game. The controls are really easy to 
 use. Just tap your enemy to hit/kill him. Bosses are easy to work out and a whole load of fun. 
 There's also some innovative bits like closing your DS and blowing into the mic.
  
  BAD
  Online could have been so much sweeter if there was an option to fight someone your skill level 
 because, believe me, fighting an SS rank on your first wi-fi match is NOT NICE. Sometimes, things 
 in the story are a bit too coincidential, like a fairy finding you on the beach at the beginning 
 of the game, an old man having a sword in his house, etc. The game is also slightly too easy for 
 the older player.
  
  
  GRAPHICS
  
  10/10
  
  GOOD
  Who wouldn't like the cel-shaded look imported onto the DS? It looks an absolute wonder when looking 
 at your rare treasure in 3-D on the top screen! (When the character models move, the Cel-shading 
 also replaces light effects) Screen is also easy to see, DS lite or Not.
  
  BAD
  -
  
  
  CONTROLS
  
  9/10
  
  GOOD
  Simple and easy to learn. Menu and items acessiable at 
 the touch of a button. Just tap an enemy to hit them. Easy.
  
  BAD
  Can be a bit flimzy if you haven't calibrated your DS properly, sometims Link doesn't roll at the 
 right times, There are no D-Pad options, etc. (Overall, it depends on the taste of the person)
 
  
  
  OVERALL
  
  9.5 / 95%
  
  I think this game is so good, even if you haven't played Zelda before or hate Zelda, you should 
 get this game. You can make your own name for this game so unless you make your name "link", you 
 can feel you're in the story and Link is you. The only disapointment over online, even though you 
 can trade your items and stuff online, is that when you are battling, you can often end up going 
 against a high/low leveled player and it can be really annoying if you are high or low leveled. 
 There are also many disconnectors online. Much more than in Yu-Gi-Oh! World Championship 2007.
 
  
  I bought this game. It's nto disappointing at all, except for the online part. I loved the single 
 player mode though and I would play it again a second time. (You get 2 save files)
  
  Hope you enjoyed my review! Have fun! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Nicodae
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 11, 2007 5:39 pm PT
Review:  Graphics: 9.5/10
  
  For DS these are very, very good graphics. Captures the Wind Waker style very well. No noticeable 
 frame rate problems or anything, not to me anyway.
  
  Gameplay: 9.5/10
  
  Some of the most creative use of the DS I've seen. Phantom Hourglass will have you blowing and 
 yelling into your DS. Drawing the route for the boat and the ability to take notes on your maps 
 is nice. Everything is done with the stylus. Boss battles are also very creative and fun and make 
 good use of the dual screens. Decent amount of extra stuff to do such as fishing, cannon mini game, 
 archery mini game, etc. The ability to customize the boat was one of my favorite things. It's also 
 nice that having a bunch of parts from a set increases the boat's stamina. One slightly annoying 
 part is that you have to go into the Temple of the Ocean King multiple times and it got kind of 
 boring especially since you are timed, but the frequency lessens later in the game. Also, switching 
 weapons was sometimes troublesome.
  
  Sound: 9.0/10
  
  It's your standard Zelda music. Reviews I've read have all said use headphones. Apparently the 
 sound suffers otherwise. I always used headphones so I can't verify that. My only complaint is 
 that in Wind Waker characters would make a sound when they started talking so you could get an 
 idea of what they sounded like. I missed that. Also during cut scenes it was sometimes hard to 
 tell who was speaking.
  
  Overall: 9.5/10
  
  This was a really fun game, I'm just sad that it's over. I'm not sure of my exact time, but it 
 was very short. But what do you expect from a hand held game? The story was simple, but good. Has 
 likable characters. I love Linebeck. If you liked Wind Waker, you will like Phantom Hourglass. 
 It is a sequel though, so if you have not beaten Wind Waker I would recommend doing that first. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Boywondereyed
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 12, 2007 10:41 am PT
Review:  Short review :
  
  Pros :
  
  Amazing graphics - spot the difference between this and Wind Waker on the Gamecube.
  
  Really 
 strong gameplay - lots of hidden stuff and extra minigames to play.
  
  Brilliant control method - all controlled by using the stylus and you soon wonder how you ever 
 played games any other way.
  
  Clever use of DS functions - blow into the mike and use the DS in other clever ways (won't spoil 
 the suprise) .
  
  It's a great Zelda game in your hand !!! What more could you want ??
  
  Cons :
  
  Not hard but not easy - somewhere in the middle.
  
  Same items as always.... boomerang, 
 bombs, arrows... why not some new ones ? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: wweMysterio
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 11, 2007 11:39 am PT
Review:  this game is long and fun and got to hav game because of its graphics and story....... the best 
 part is u can play anywhere. I LUV THIS as much as twilight princess but in that u hav to play inside=/but 
 thats sorta the advantage to the graphics and play and story size. Man i cant think of a better 
 game for the ds....... unless ur playing mar kart ds with al ur pals its better than this cause 
 of the lafs and u know. But this is practicly in my top 3 fave games. and i hav alot! like 30! i sweae 
 and i played other ones. halo is definetly the best and if u think it sucks-ur stupid gey and r 
 stuck for sure cause u hav to be a retarded mother fuckin loser to h8 this game 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DragonKage
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 11, 2007 8:54 am PT
Review:  This is one of the best DS games I've played in a long time. This is a must-buy for the DS if you 
 are into adventure/action games.
  
  First of all, the graphics are the best, and I mean, the best I've seen on the DS so far. They 
 have lots of detail and colour which makes it look excellent.
  
  The gameplay, now this is where I had mix reactions on this part. You have to do everything with 
 the stylus, you hardly, almost never use the d-pad. I am a gamer who normally uses the d-pad, and 
 when they introduced how to play the game, that you had to use the stylus to move etc. it disappointed 
 me. But you get used to the stylus movements later.
  
  The storyline, was a bit typical. Tetra getting kidnapped just like Zelda in other previous LoZ 
 games. It would be nice for a different storyline for a change.
  
  Overall, I loved the game. The temples were great in graphics, and very challenging as you progress 
 through the game. Some puzzles were very annoying to be honest and some seem almost impossible 
 without using the guide, but you would probably find what to do after a while of thinking.
  
  [**SPOILER WARNING**]
  I particularly loved the end fight with Bellum and the possessed Linebeck. 
 The fight brought back memories from fighting Ganondorf on The Legend Of Zelda: Twilight Princess 
 (although Twilight Princess and that fight was much better of course) but it was still great.
 
  
  Plus, lots to do after you've completed the game, such as collect treasures and ship parts, so 
 this game will keep you on it for a long time!
  
  So, if you love adventure or action games, this game is a must-buy. Definitely one for the Legend 
 Of Zelda fans. Awesome. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Hellmonkey012
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 10, 2007 4:50 am PT
Review:  Legend of Zelda ; Phantom Hourglass is a direct sequel of LOZ; Wind Waker but... wait for it.............. 
 it's on the Nintendo DS. !!!. This is the first Zelda game on the DS ever and it does take full 
 and perfect advantage of the DS touch abilities. You just do a slice or stab motion to attack enemies 
 with your sword. Or you can draw a path on the screen for you boomerang to follow. And one of the 
 most helpful additions is that you can draw notes, words, or numbers on your map to help you solve 
 puzzles or to find a hidden treasure, At first I thought this feature was gimmicky but after playing 
 it for a while it really is helpful. The story takes place out at the ocean when all of a sudden 
 the Ghost Ship appears and Tetra (Zelda) jumps on it and gets kidnapped. So link needs to save 
 her (again) . To do so he needs the help of the three spirits ( the three goddesses in Ocarina of 
 Time) and the clues to find the ghost ship are in the temple of the Ocean King. But you just cant 
 walk in there and find it. The temple drains the life out of you. Unless you have the Phantom Hourglass 
 (thats where the title comes in at) . But the PH has a time limit so if you just Dilly Dally you 
 will die. Its called the PHANTOMS Hourglass because the temple is guarded by Phantoms and if one 
 sees you he chases you and attacks you. In this sequel you can draw a course for your ship. Boss 
 Battles are great. This game is everything a Zelda game should be.
  
  THE GOOD; Its Zelda, it has touch controls, the boss battles are as good as you would expect, there 
 are tons of extra collectibles, puzzles and side missions to keep you playing.
  
  THE BAD; Hard core gamers might think this game is too easy, running around may be difficult at 
 times.
  
  OVERALL; A must buy for any DS owner or Zelda maniac. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: halo1001001
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 9, 2007 9:03 pm PT
Review:  The sequel to the 2003's Wind Waker is great. There are many differences though in this game from 
 Wind Waker, many of which actually help to improve the experience. One of them is the controls. 
 Rather than using any of the buttons or the D-Pad, you pretty much use the stylus to move around 
 Link as well as to use his items. You draw lines on the DS to attack with your sword and your items 
 each have different commands. You will be doing many things in this game with the stylus whether 
 it be drawing things on your map to help you remember things later to drawing a path for your boomerang 
 to take.
  
  The story starts right off after the events of Wind Waker. As you and Tetra (Princess Zelda) are 
 sailing on your ship, a ghost ship comes and takes Tetra away to some other part of the sea. It's 
 up to you to find the ship and save her. Along your journey, you meet a man named Lineback who 
 owns a ship that helps you get from island to island in exchange for keeping any treasure that 
 you find along the way. Thus, the adventure truly begins. 
  
  Just like before, you will be sailing in the game. But unlike in Wind Waker, the islands aren't 
 too far apart and the ocean isn't that huge making it easier to sail from island to island. After 
 a while, you will get a cannon for your ship that lets you destroy enemies or enemy ships along 
 the way. You are also able to get a Salvage Hook later on that lets you search underwater for treasure. 
 You're also allowed to customize your ship to either make it look good or better.
  
  There are many temples in this game, but the main one is the Ocean Temple. It's the first one in 
 the game, and the one you'll keep having to come back to. Each time you do come back, it'll be 
 because you need to find a new sea chart and you'll have to delve deeper each time. It kind of 
 gets annoying after a while, but luckily there are shortcuts put there that you could use with 
 the new items you get there. It's also the final temple in the game since you go there to find 
 Beldum, the main protanginist. 
  
  The graphics are actually the finest on the DS. They're still the same cel-shaded graphics as in 
 the Wind Waker. Occasionally though in the cutscenes, you'll see some sprites just laying out there. 
 The character models look great, the scenery is beautiful, and such effects like explosions make 
 it look great like in a cartoon. The framerate is smooth making every movement look great.
  
  One of the best things in the game are the boss fights. Unlike any other part of the game, 
 they actually take up both screens for the fight. They are great and fun and actually require you 
 to take some time in figuring out the weakpoint. It always feels rewarding after defeating a boss 
 and you always just want to fight another boss already.
  
  The music in Phantom Hourglass mostly has music from the old games but just well remixed. There 
 are some parts in the game where the music isn't a remix and it just fits really well into the 
 scenery whether it be while sailing or being inside a temple.
  
  There really isn't much to say about Phantom Hourglass except just how great it really is. It's 
 the best game on the DS right now. If you've got the money for it right now, I completely insist 
 that you go right now if you don't already have it and buy it. It's really that good.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: DFresh4
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 9, 2007 4:45 pm PT
Review:  The Legend of Zelda franchise is one of the most comfortable out there because one knows what to 
 expect. Whether it is the puzzles, the assortment of weapons or the types of characters one will 
 come across, everything is somehow familiar and yet new during every new rendition. 
  
  I would like to start by saying that I did like playing through this game. But more importantly 
 I realized it was for all of the reminiscence and not for the game itself. 
  
  There are two problems with the game: The first is that it is too easy overall. During the dungeon 
 crawling and exploring there was no desperation. Not once did I come close to the dreaded game 
 over and after the first half of the game I felt the urge to stop collecting heart containers to 
 make my travels around the seven seas a bit harder. Not only are the foes you face pushovers, but 
 there are no real mind blowing puzzles either. I don't mind an easy puzzle experience, but the 
 dungeons were so straightforward that I never really questioned myself or said, "Ok, what do I 
 have to accomplish here." I like a bit of a challenge. I'm not talking contra hard here or some 
 of the past Mega Man ridiculousness, but I like knowing that I will have felt the least bit accomplished 
 when finished. 
  
  Second problem is that the boss battles are even easier than the rest of the game. I have never 
 played a final boss that gave up so easily. The fight carries on for a bit of time, but the obstacles 
 that he puts in the way are laughable. 
  
  Here is the deal:
  Visually, the game is almost as good as you can get on the DS (plus the cell shaded Windwaker never 
 bothered me any) . 
  
  The sound is great with the a good and varied sound track of song of old and new as well as sound 
 effects that work well within the game. 
  
  The game play with the stylus worked extremely well. I only had a handful of mishaps along the 
 way while progressing through the game. I have to say that I kept picking up the game and wishing 
 that the lion's share of movement had been on the d-pad. I wish there had been an option to do 
 so.
  
  There is also a lot of game here as one can dig up more sea charts and find hidden islands with 
 little minigames. Unfortunately there just wasn't much willing me to go and complete these minigames 
 and such as I generally explored out of habit more than wonder.
  
  My review is split. It is a fun game (though lacking on difficulty) . The environments look great 
 (though for the first time I didn't feel the need to unlock every secret hiding within them) . I 
 can't give it the game a bad score because it doesn't deserve one. I just wish that it had lived 
 up to the Zelda's before it and made me want nothing other than everything the game had to offer. 
 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Erkidu
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 9, 2007 10:04 am PT
Review:  Story:
  
  Beginning shortly after the events of Windwaker (GC) , Tetra, seeking treasures, goes aboard the 
 infamous Ghost Ship and goes missing. It is up to Link to find and save her.
  
  Gameplay:
  
  Definitely a highlight of the title. Everything is controlled via the touch screen 
 from movement to the use of items. While some ideas don't work as well as others - the touch screen 
 control is overall very well done. Item use and sword swinging are both easily done with a bit 
 of practice. The only flaw that stood out in my mind, in regards to touch screen control, was the 
 roll manuever. Most of the time when I attempted it, Link would simply swing his sword. The game 
 features a main storyline, of course, as well as a good number of side quests and areas to explore.
 
  
  Graphics:
  
  One of the better looking titles on the DS, though I would have enjoyed a larger variety of island 
 and terrain types. The animations and cutscenes are beautiful - but, as I said before, the islands 
 left something to be desired.
  
  Sound:
  
  Fantastic musical score and great sound effects all around. You'll see yourself humming along with 
 many of the games main themes.
  
  Value:
  
  The single player will last a good 10-20 hours (depending on your desire to explore) , but the real 
 replay value shows itself with the multiplayer function. While it may not be for everyone, the 
 multiplayer mode offers many levels in which you can compete against friends or random people across 
 the globe. This game is definitely worth $35 for the single player alone - and the multiplayer 
 mode makes it that much sweeter.
  
  
  In closing:
  
  This game is simply alot of fun. If you're looking for a massive amount of variety or an epic story 
 - you may desire something more, but when it comes down to good ole' fun, Phantom Hourglass nails 
 it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jolleyho
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 9, 2007 1:44 am PT
Review:  Zelda has always been a personal favorite of mine, and this game did not disappoint. The controls, 
 the graphics, the story, and, my personal favorite, the bosses, were superb. The extra side quests 
 were excellent as well, using the ds controls perfectly to fit the rest of the game.
  I bought a gamecube just to play windwaker, and when I was done, I felt that it was the best Zelda 
 quest ever, I loved the sailing, the islands, the discovering of a huge world, so when I heard 
 that a sequel was coming out on the ds, I nearly wet myself. Although the world is not as huge 
 as the windwaker, for obvious reasons, the discovering still felt great, and I loved the drawing 
 of the route before you go, so tha u can relax and just kill bad guys. My personal favorite part 
 of the game were the boss battles. They were so unique in their own way using the ds to the max. 
 I did not want the boss battles to ever end, and when they did, I couldnt wait to find out what 
 the next boss was. There was only one thing I did not like about the game, and I am sure alot of 
 people agree. Having to go through the temple of the ocean king, over and over again, got really 
 frustrating really fast. If they took that whole part out of the game, the game would of been that 
 much better. But consider that is the only negative about the game, you know the game is solid. 
 Phantom hourglass is a new twist on the classic game. This game made me hope that maybe just maybe 
 a third one will come out on the ds as well. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: RayGirl1988
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 8, 2007 3:45 pm PT
Review:  Great challenging boss fights that never failed to impress. Along with great game play. I loved 
 the way that you controlled link, and the way that the game combined the touch screen and microphone 
 features. Not only that though, but i also thought that the story line was intreeging, and kept 
 you wanting more!
  This is a game that i will never wish to end!! It has left me wanting to go and explore all of 
 the other 'Zelda' games out there to see how this compares to the others, i am positive that i 
 will not be disapointed!
  An all-round great must have game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: beliefs22
Rating: 7.5
Date: Nov 9, 2007 7:52 am PT
Review:  While i've only spent a few hours playing through the first two bosses of the game, i have to say 
 i can't play it anymore, for two reason, the temple of the ocean king, and sailing. I
  'm someone, who doesn't have a lot of time to spend playing a game day in and day out. I was hoping, 
 especially since zelda is hand held, it would lend itself to be more of a casual, you can pick 
 it up when you have time, kind of game, that i could take a few months to finish. So after playing 
 the game in a few hour burst, i've come to realize that i'll probably never finish this game, for 
 those two reasons. First the sailing. I never played Wind Walker, because i didn't have a game 
 cube, so i don't know if sailing in that game was even worse than it is in phantom hours glass, 
 but to me it just seems tacked on. I feel like there should have been two options of sailing, one 
 where you can explore, to find the treasure and hidden island, and one where you could just instantly 
 travel to any area that you have at least already traveled to before. This is annoying because, 
 when you really don't have alot of time to play the game, you dont' want to spend 5 minutes of 
 the 30 minute chance to you get to play sailing to an island that you've already been to before. 
 And the fact that monsters will attack you while you are traveling also is annoying because maybe 
 if i couldn't instantly travel i could at least draw out my path and set the game down and do something 
 productive while Link traveled.
  
  The second, and most annoying part about this game is the Temple of the Ocean King. I mean come 
 one, who, when designing this game thought that having to go through the same areas over and over 
 and over again was a good idea. On my third trip back to the temple it had been more than a week 
 since i had played the game, i realized that i had no idea what i did in the first two parts, and 
 basically had to redo them all over, except for the shortcuts that the bombs gave me. I had to 
 turn the game off in frustration. I don't know if this is simply a mechanism to make the game longer, 
 but i feel like if this part wasn't there i would have beat them game by now instead of having 
 it sit in the case. Now every time i think about playing the game i think, i'm going to have to 
 go do that stupid ocean king temple, and i just don't play it. I hope one day when i have more 
 time i can sit down and play the game through without that many breaks so things like sailing and 
 the temple don't keep me from finishing, because in the few hours that i did play the game was 
 lots of fun. It was the first time that the stylus actually felt like a useful tool since i played 
 Kirby's Canvas Curse. The graphics were more than i ever expected from the DS, and the action (especially 
 the boss battles) were lots of fun. But all of those things were ruined by these two aspects of 
 the game that i feel really should have been tweaked to make the game more conducive to casual 
 play. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: macaroon_junkie
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 8, 2007 1:20 pm PT
Review:  Before I got this game, I was actually worried about the changes that the DS would bring to the 
 series due mainly to the control system. But after playing it for 5 minutes you realise that it 
 would have been somuch less of a game without these controls and that this is the next step in 
 the handheld Zelda series. The game uses the DS to its full potential, using everything from touch 
 screen to the fact that it folds itself in half. The microphone is used to blow out candles or 
 shout things at people. The folding of the DS is used to transfer things between the two screens. 
 The touch screen is used for everything else, buttons are not used apart from an optional way to 
 bring down your map or open up your menu. The fact that there is a map on the top screen aids gameplay 
 a lot because this means that you do not constantly have to fish in you inventory to look at it 
 but also you can write on it and animations show you such things as where gusts of wind are blowing.
 
  
  The graphics are very good for the DS, it could be said they are the best on it so far. It once 
 again picks up the cell shaded style of Wind Waker as well as also picking up from where it left 
 off in the storyline. Link, Tetra and the other pirates go hunting for a ghost ship that has been 
 abducting people. They find it and Tetra gets abducted by it while Link falls off and comes to 
 on an island. There he meets a fairy called Ciela and a sailor called Linebeck. Link enters the 
 Temple of the Ocean King and in there he finds the Phantom Hourglass which while filled with sand 
 holds off the life drining curse inside the temple. The three go off to find the three spirits 
 of the ocean king and evry time they find on and defeat a boss, more sand is put into the hourglass 
 and they can venture further into the phantom filled temple. Then they must seek out three pure 
 metals to forge the Phantom Sword which can defeat the evil parasite Bellum. Along the way they 
 find Tetra, but she has had her soul sucked out of her which only can be restored by a great power. 
 After Bellum is defeated and all is normal in the world, Link and Tetra return to the pirates to 
 roam the seas once more.
  
  The sound of the game has many familiar tunes from the Wind Waker but also some new ones which 
 are just as catchy and fitting for the game. All fighting sounds, firing sounds and noises made 
 by enemies are all great and run smoothly. Like every good Zelda game, there is also a large variety 
 of side quests and mini games. We see the return of a shooting gallery and a goron racing game 
 as well as a new target game from the same man as Windfall Island in the Wind Waker. There is a 
 trading game, weapon &amp; ship upgrades and there are also only heart containers to getting ful 
 health is less complicated. And there is fishing, and I havn't even mentioned all of the extra 
 stuff to find and collect. There is also an extremely fun wi-fi multiplayer mode a well. This game 
 offers so, so much and all the extra stuff will have you playing this game for a long time. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: fienno123
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jan 28, 2008 10:08 am PT
Review:  we all love zelda. and i am no diffrence. i enjoyed this game and i still am, first before though 
 as handheld zelda games go, im dissapointed a little. while the ghame has many good aspects there 
 are a few bads points aswell so we will start with them.....
  
  first of all, the controlls can be cluncky, i mean using a stylus is great and innovative but trying 
 munover through tight spaces like fires is hard. you will hit the fire and loose half a heart. 
 its not that bad but can be frustrating. same with trying to move around quickly and attack is 
 a no goer, another problem is the difficulty. its too easy and a bit on the short side compared 
 to the minish cap
  
  but the graphic are a charm and work with the style of the story. the battle modes okay but co-op 
 would be better tbh. i am enjoying it much i may sound hard on this game but im not. its good but 
 short
  
  this is because nintendo spend too much time trying apeal to new gamers and kids. if they had stayyed 
 with the zelda fan market it would of be harder and in my opinion funner. this is this because 
 i like my games solid 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: kamikaziworm
Rating: 7.5
Date: Nov 7, 2007 10:51 pm PT
Review:  i'm a huge fan of the zelda series and phantom hourglass was a great addition to it. But as with 
 TP I feel there should have been alot more sidequests. once the game is finished there is very 
 little left to do except serch for power boosters, hearts and gain more ship parts. There are also 
 many frustrations with the temple of the ocean king, redoing a temple 6 or so times just to unlock 
 the next bit or a map realy gets boring, especially if you run out of time and have to start again! 
 Other than this, i enjoyed the humour supplied by great characters like Linebeck and some of the 
 bosses were simply fantasticly thought up and very enjoyable to fight. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: m1k3m
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 7, 2007 1:51 pm PT
Review:  The Legend of Zelda: Phantom Hourglass is the sequel to The Legend of Zelda: The Wind Waker.
  
  -Gameplay:
  The whole game is controlled by the DS's touch screen and for the most part the 
 controls work flawlessly. They also fit amazingly well into some of the game's finely crafted puzzles. 
 Sometimes, but rarely the touch screen does mess up, but if it does it will only hurt you by a 
 minuscule amount. The puzzles are very creative and utilize all of the DS's unique features. One 
 puzzle that I personally find as the most clever little thing has you stamp something on the top 
 screen to the map on the bottom screen by closing the DS. That is just a taste of one of the puzzles 
 that you will come across.
  
  -Graphics:
  The graphics are simply phenomenal for the DS. It keeps the same graphic style that The Wind Waker 
 had. I would consider this game's graphics to maybe be the best looking graphics on a DS game to 
 date.
  
  -Sound:
  Nothing too amazing here but it does have some catchy tunes. Especially the one that plays while 
 you are sailing in the ocean. Link's yells and yelps also sound perfectly fine and all of the other 
 sound effects you will hear are pretty good.
  
  -Value:
  The game is definitely worth its $35 price tag. Between the 15 hour adventure and the multiplayer 
 Wi-Fi you will be busy for quite a while. There are also all of the many side quests which will 
 bump up the adventure by AT LEAST 5 more hours. The game is worth the price for the sheer fun factor 
 alone IMO.
  
  Overall:
  If you own a DS this is one game to definitely add to your collection. It is an amazingly crafted 
 game and it has awesome puzzles. Also, the bosses are each completely unique and are LOADS of fun 
 to fight because of their uniqueness. They are one of the biggest highlights of the game. You should 
 honestly just go out and buy this game if you don't already own it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: benleslie5
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 7, 2007 10:59 am PT
Review:  Legend of Zelda Phantom Hourglass is the newest game that has appeared on DS, and this game is 
 Highly Addictive you just can't stop playing it.
  Main Story is about Link and Tetra and her pirate crew are on a highsea adventure, they see somthing 
 in the FOG which is the ghost ship and you find out that Tetra (Who is acturally Princess Zelda) 
 she gets kiddnapped by the Ghost pirates, and Link has fallen off board and on a unknowen island 
 called Mercery Island and you are trying to rescue her but you get help from OsHus (an old man 
 who lost his power from the Evil Bellem who has took controll of the seas) And your two sidekicks 
 Ciela (Fairy who lost her memory from her past) and this look-alike pirate of Jack Sparrow who is 
 knowen as Linebeck who is just into treasure, you sail around the world finding clues, trueasure, 
 expolering and finding where you need to go next. Also you can write notes on your maps on your 
 DS when there's a puzzle where you'll find trickly. But the gameplay is well excellent your just 
 using the Touch screen to Attack and move around which is very clever. There will be times where 
 you'll get frustrated such as The Temple of the Ocean King becuase there are Phantoms which you 
 cannot kill and you have a timer to get the the floor you need to get too, if you get hit you will 
 lose mintues of your Hourglass if it gets to 0.00 you will lose health slowly.
  Enough with the gameplay thegraphics are Manga-Disney this game is the sequel to Wind Waker (Cube) 
 it would explain about the looks on the graphics and charcters) , sounding reminds you of the other 
 Zelda games that had good music.
  There is also Wi-Fi aswell where you can play somone esle who has this game and battle other gamers 
 means you can outsmart the other player which is clever.
  I couldn't get enough of this game I couldn't stop playing the only other Zelda game I played was 
 the NES version on GameBoy Advance, but I would have to say this was the best DS game I played 
 this year. This game should take you up to 15-20 hours to finish don't rush, but defently a great 
 Adventure game if you have or never played any other Zelda Games. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: KingSigy
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 7, 2007 10:12 am PT
Review:  The Legend of Zelda series has been long standing, and definitely has tried changing itself before, 
 with some less than stellar results (Zelda 2) , and some pretty interesting twists (Four Swords) , 
 but never has a Zelda game ever tried changing the traditional control scheme and reinvented the 
 way you thought an adventure game could be played.
  First off I'll start with the story. While its typical save Zelda, Phantom Hourglass makes terrific 
 strides in story telling. The camera angles are almost always cinematic, regardless of the situation. 
 You'll see panning, zooming, slight distance blur, quick cuts and direct focus on characters when 
 they speak. This may not sound like much, but seeing this all in action on the DS just makes you 
 smile with joy. The story itself, though, deals with a sort of pirate myth. A so called Ghost Ship 
 sails the seas, and whomever steps onto the ship turns to stone. Of course, this being a sequel 
 to Wind Waker, Zelda (Tetra, if you remember Wind Waker) and Link happen to be sailing the very 
 ocean the Ghost Ship does. They run into it, Zelda is turned into a statue, and Link is forced 
 to follow to save her. This doesn't go so well, and Link awakens on a coastline of a small town. 
 Along his journey he meets with a ship captain, named Linebeck, who helps him travel between the 
 vast oceans of Hyrule.
  That may sound similar to Wind Waker, and it definitely is (for obvious reasons) , but the story 
 doesn't fold out the same way. Zelda games aren't meant to convey a dramatic tale though, and Phantom 
 Hourglass definitely gets by with the story it has. It's not bad, but not great either.
  The real joy of Phantom Hourglass comes from the puzzle solving and new control scheme. At first 
 it seems like a blatant excuse for Nintendo to get you to use your stylus, but once you get far 
 into the game, you treat the controls like a second nature. Quick button presses open your menus 
 for weapons and maps, and they all happen in real time. Theres none of the old equipment screens 
 to deal with, Link finally knows how to grab the equipment he needs. This is also made extremely 
 simple with the stylus, as you just press the item you need. Not only this, but the items require 
 use of the stylus. Obviously the boomerang is the most talked about, as you draw a path and it 
 will follow (which leads to some very clever puzzles) , but the Bow and Arrow get a nice makeover 
 as well. This game follows the old fashioned 2-D style of Zelda games, but you can now aim in 360 
 degrees. This certainly allows you to tackle enemies from far off without having to be in their 
 path, and it also brings some interesting elements to puzzle solving (namely arrow redirection 
 beams) . The bombchus also get a sort of remote control makeover, and this is used to great effect 
 with puzzles as well. Nintendo certainly knew what they wanted out of this Zelda game, and you 
 will absolutely appreciate it.
  The graphics, while not entirely genre busting or complex, are certainly nice. Everything is modeled 
 after the cartoon style of Wind Waker, so the whole world looks like a living comic book. The sea 
 has its intensity captured perfectly, and the characters just animate wonderfully, especially their 
 facial expressions. Some of the textures for the islands and dungeons are a bit plain, but the 
 cinematic nature of the cutscenes helps detract from that and accentuate the facial animations. 
 You will certainly laugh when Link is dizzy from spinning or knocked out cold with swirls in his 
 eyes.
  There also happens to be a multiplayer section to this game, though it isn't Four Swords style. 
 That is too bad, but what is offered is still interesting and fun. It may not be long lasting, 
 but you and a friend should be able to get a thrill from it. One player controls Link, while the 
 other takes the form of the main stories villians, called the Phantoms. They are indestrucdible 
 (by normal means) and can knock Link out with a single hit. The game has you draw paths for them 
 to follow, which can be annoying at times, but does work in sentry style paths. You collect force 
 gems and bring them back to your base, so this is Zelda CTF basically. It's not fantastic, but 
 its also not terrible.
  There isn't much else to say about Phantom Hourglass other than buy it now. It is an absolute must 
 own for DS owners, and it certainly helps make Zelda fresh again after 9 years of the Ocarina blueprint. 
 You certainly will love the game if you are a Zelda fan, and if you've never played one, the easy 
 control scheme and pick up and play nature may just win you over. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ptoscano
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 6, 2007 10:49 pm PT
Review:  The Legend of Zelda: Phantom Hourglass is a direct sequel to the Wind Waker. Phantom Hourglass 
 begins with Link and Tetra sailing the Great Sea when they find the Ghost Ship which is said to 
 have taken sailors and residents of local islands. When Tetra Climbs abord the ship she disappears 
 and Link tries to follow her but falls off the ship and wakes up on a beach and meets a fairy named 
 Ciela and with that Link begins his journey to save Tetra .
  
  Controls: Phantom Hourglass takes full advantage of the DS hardware by instead of using the d-pad 
 to control Link you use the stylus play the entire game. The only times you use the d-pad or the 
 a, b, x, y, L, or R buttons are to use them as shortcuts to equip secondary weapons such as your bow 
 and arrow or boomerang and bring down the map from the top screen. Another feature you can do is 
 write down notes to help you remember item locations ect.....
  
  Graphics: The visuals look pretty good with the game being cell shaded like Wind Waker. With having 
 vast areas when sailing along with having good sized dungeons as well.
  
  Sound: The sound is pretty standard with no talking and the majority of the sounds come from attacking 
 enemies and link grunting when attacking or getting injured. But with what sound is made is sounds 
 good and believable.
  
  Replayability: There isnt too much reason to play the game again and after compleating the game 
 you arent able to travel the around the map and collect items you havent gotten yet. With that 
 I mean you have to restart the whole game if you want to complete mini games and collect ship parts.
 
  What the game does have is a multiplayer battle minigame
  
  Overview: In the end The Legend of Zelda: Phantom Hourglass is one of the best games on the DS 
 to show the capabilities of the system and the game is worth the purchase and makes all the old 
 Zelda concepts seem new due to playing the whole game with only the sylus. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kaiser6666
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 6, 2007 11:03 am PT
Review:  This is a great zelda game worthy of the series. It is abit on the easy side thought but the fact 
 there is sooo much to do find unexplored islands find tresure and catch fish and even get ship 
 parts. The touch screen makes great use since you can draw on your map and even plot the path of 
 your bomarang and even your ship its also neat because there is another villian is the game who 
 isnt Ganandorf and Zelda is not really mentioned the only downside to the game is the fact there 
 is one dugeon called the temple of the oceon king which you have to go throught at least 5 times 
 doing the same puzzles over and over while avoing phantoms. Overall it is a amazing zelda game 
 worthy of the DS libarary. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: chasingmaynard
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 5, 2007 10:19 pm PT
Review:  Anyone who has just purchased a DS and wants to know what to get... here are the three games and 
 you'll be set: Animal Crossing: Wild World, Final Fantasy III, and Phantom Hourglass. I'm sure 
 Mario Kart: DS should be on the list, but I haven't bought that yet.
  
  Nintendo once again tops the scale of entertainment with the Zelda game on the DS, pushing the 
 use of Stylus and Mic input well past what the word innovative could describe. I am so glad that 
 the demo was on display at my local electronics store (initials B. B.) , the game just hooked me 
 once it mentioned we need to get a sword . I didn't think the total stylus control was going to 
 sit well with me, because when I play Animal Crossing, I use the cross-hairs to get around. However, 
 with this game the use of the stylus just feels natural with every aspect.
  
  I know reviews shouldn't be written before playing the game for awhile, but I highly doubt this 
 game will prove me wrong in my liking. I judge things based on how much they cost per how many 
 hours I have to work to earn the cost of the item... (if what I'm buying provides twice the time 
 of entertainment than how long I had to work for to buy it, then it is definitely worth it) .
  
  I would easily have paid 70 dollars for this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: klynch13
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 5, 2007 9:10 pm PT
Review:  I've been playing Zelda since I was a kid back in the 8-bit days and gameboy eras. I'll admit I 
 missed a couple of them but I have been loyal to the series. I loved it when the ocarina of time 
 came out for the N64 but was a little turned off from the graphics when wind waker came out for 
 the cube and was brought I back into the fold when twilight Princess came out for the Wii. I've 
 always had 3 systems in my house and nintendo was always one of them. When I saw the preview for 
 the phantom hourglass I was quite excited with the game play mechanics and just the overall look 
 and feel of the game. I really love the DS. Sometimes more than my PSP. The games seem to be more 
 fun with the stylus than with a controller. This game fits perfectly with this system and the graphics 
 from wind waker look just as bright and colorful on the DS as it did on the cube. But then again 
 it is a Zelda game. The sound is excellent and the music score is always excellent. I suggest a 
 headset for this game as I recommend with all of the games for the DS. If you really love the Zelda 
 series and the DS then you are really going to love this game. It is a must for every DS owners 
 library. I was blown away with the interaction this game has with the player and the ds. From writing 
 down notes on the maps to shouting into the microphone to stun an enemy, this game has pulled all 
 the bells and whistles to make it an interactive and fun experience. The weapon system is really 
 slick on the DS. The stylus just works fantastic with them. From the boomerang to the grappling 
 hook, the stylus just gives you a really cool interaction and experience with the environments.
 
  I haven't finished the game yet but I have gotten very far into it. The treasure hunting experience 
 I never gave wind waker a chance too is really fun and I may have to pick it up again. I'll admit 
 some of the boss fights are easy but nonetheless still fun. The game makes you really think and 
 sometimes makes you say, I can't believe that is what I had to do to get by that. 
  The game is still quite hard. I can't see a child picking up this game without help from an adult 
 or a hint book. Maybe a 12 year old but I still think it is a little hard.
  Excellent job nintendo. It is nice to see a series like this still around and still as great as 
 it was when I was a kid. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nephilim09
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 5, 2007 5:18 pm PT
Review:  This is the first game I got on my DS... since I just got my DS today.... one of the many reasons 
 was for this game.... and I must say.. amazing. The gameplay is solid and the boomerang is my fav 
 so far. Hopefully they make another Zelda in the next year or so and make it just as good. I had 
 a really good time in the temple where u get the boomerang and the temple revolves around using 
 it ^_^....... lade da da da Umm just an awsome game overall and I highly recommend it if you're 
 a huge zelda fan or u just like these kind of games 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hyruleshero
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 5, 2007 1:58 pm PT
Review:  Best game hands down by nintendo ds. This game has great boss sequences that kill the windwakers. 
 A must by for anyone. The only boring part is repeatedly going back to the ocean temple. It sucks 
 I promise. A lot of EXPERTS were'nt sure about the touch screen being the focus point of your adventure. 
 But its tottaly blown away any controversy. 10 things why its a good game:
  
  1. come on its zelda
  2. cool bosses
  3. my name is chris
  4. its zelda
  4. link's big eyes
 
  5. stupid humor
  6. the way tetra gets caught
  7. its handheld.........
  8. cool dungeons
  9. ice cube plays it
  10. i cant think of any more Really why do I even have to right this review. 
 Any true Zelda fan is going to know what they get out of the games. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: petey3
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 4, 2007 1:08 pm PT
Review:  I have to say i was more excited for this game than halo (mainly cause i currently don't have my 
 xbox 360) . The controls may take a while getting used to but when you figure them out you will 
 have a great time. For a ds game the graphics were pretty impressive. The story is really immersive 
 and it takes place after the events of the wind waker. Also i was really impressed with the puzzles 
 which were sort of diffcult at times. The boss fights were really fun despite the fact that they 
 were extremly easy. I think one of the most helpful aditions to the game is the ability to write 
 on the maps. Certain areas require a item you may not have at the time but with a few strokes you 
 can make a reminder for yourself. Overall The phantom Hourglass is a very impressive game that 
 will satisfy old zelda players and will atract new ones.
  
  BUY THIS GAME 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pacuuuuu3
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 4, 2007 12:33 pm PT
Review:  The legend of zelda phantom hourglass it's a pure stylus adventure based on a sequel form the windweaker, 
 now let's do this:
  
  Story: Great storyline with a lot of feelings, and you know, things that great storylines have= 
 10/10
  
  Sound: The classic zelda sound still there but if you're not playing it, it starts to get really 
 annoying, still a good sound quality= 9.5/10
  
  Gameplay: much to say about this great stylus-based gameplay that it's the best part of this game, 
 let me explain, you muve link with the stylus, attack with the stylus, everything with the stylus! 
 Really good use of the stylus that can't be explained with words, really great and easy to controll 
 gameplay= 10/10
  
  Graphics: Remembering we're on DS there's not much to say cause the graphics are really good for 
 a DS game, just like in windweaker= 9.8/10
  
  Total Score: 10/10
  
  Conclusion: I and you must get this great game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Bulldawg8879
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 4, 2007 9:49 am PT
Review:  This game I didnt even know was going to be released until a few days before it came out.. but 
 when I heard a Zelda game was comeing out for the ds I knew it would be good and that I would get 
 it.. I have not played alot of the other recent Zelda games, mainly only the older Nintendo and 
 Supernintendo ones but this game is just awesome.. First of all the most noticeable thing about 
 the game is that you only use the stylus to control link and all of the weapons and minigames.. 
 It does work very well for the game and isnt a problem for me at all.. You make quick strokes with 
 the stylus to swing the sword and drag it around to where you want to walk to.. The game has alot 
 of minigames and diversions in it to, like the underwater treasure which you lower a salvage arm 
 into the ocean and have to avoid mines and collect coins on the way down then haul up the treasure 
 at the bottom.. And the shooting range challenge where you get a prize depending on your point 
 total. Most of the game world is an ocean with different islands you need to navigate to which 
 you use your companion linebacks ship to get to.. You can upgrade the ship with various parts you 
 find throughout the game, mostly I think its just cosemetic except for the cannon upgrades.. At 
 first only the southwestern corner of the ocean is open but you need to find sea charts in the 
 temple of the ocean king where you will have to return to alot throuhgout the game.. The tools 
 you get are cool to the standard boomerang, bombs, and bow and arrow as well as a grapling hook, 
 shovel, remote control bombs and more.. There are alot of secrets and areas that can be revisted 
 to find new things once you have more tools to use also.. The graphics on this game are great for 
 a ds game and are colorful, and well presented.. The sound effects are decent, and the music is 
 all good with classic zelda type music.. Overall if you like zelda or even if you dont this game 
 kicks booty.. It took me about 27 hours to finish the game as well so its worth the money.. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: classicgameR4
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 4, 2007 6:04 am PT
Review:  This game is good. I thought that the control scheme would suck because i personally hate touch 
 controls, but i was wrong. The controls are smooth. The game has a sufficient amount of dungeons. 
 The story was good. But the fact that there was no triforce or master sword or ganondorf i know 
 ganondorf was in the first one. But without these key elements the game didnt feel the same way 
 the past games felt. i will say instead of the master sword you have a sword that looks very similar. 
 I thought there could have been more items like ones from link to the past fire ice rod and many 
 other items. i thought the whole rupee system was off. instead of 999 as the highest 9999 is the 
 highest making things very expensive and the only way to get over a 1000 is halfway through the 
 game were you sell treasures and ship parts. They were also way to generous with rupees. I dont 
 know the whole currency system should have been looked at again. The sailng seemed like a chore 
 more then fun sometimes. i couldnt get my ships stamina more then 5 and you start a 4. After looking 
 at all the empty spaces in the ship parts section it looks like it would be impossible to get them 
 all unless you get like 30 of them in wi fi mode. I also dont see where all the wisdom power and 
 courage gems would all be i only got 15 power and 10 wisdom and like 11 courage. But these are 
 minor flaws stretched to sound like huge flaws. I still love the game its awesome you own a ds 
 get it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Chaos_Angel_14
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 3, 2007 7:12 pm PT
Review:  There are very few video games series that are as classic as The Legend of Zelda series. Whether 
 it was with the NES orignal, the vidoe game legend that is Ocarina of Time , or modern day masterpiece, 
 Twilight Princess , Nintendo has always seemlessly put out video game opus' that will always stay 
 apart of video game history and more importantly, many peoples childhoods and lives. With that 
 being said, The latest installment in this epic of a franchise has arrived on the Nintendo DS and 
 with all the hype (positive and negative) about it, many where curious to see how it turned out. 
 Most won't be dissapointed.
  
  Phantom Hourglass is the sequel the gamecube (and franchise) black-sheep, The Windwaker, and picks 
 up immediatly where it leaves off. The story is very zelda, in that sense I mean, it carrys a childhood 
 sense of whimsy and exploration about it at times and can be grim and serious at others, in the 
 case of PH, the story is more lighthearted. With all this said, i will say that i was mildly dissapointed 
 by the ending, but thats all I will say about that.
  
  The most intriguing part about PH is it's controls which are intirelly touch based. At first, this 
 may sound disastorus, but after playing Phantom Hourglass, i can honestly say, I find it hard to 
 play older games in the series. The controls are smooth and simple, and are used quite innovativly 
 in situation such as combat and puzzles, especially the puzzles, which while not the hardest, are 
 some of the most fun in the franchise. The boss battles are also immensly entertaining and are 
 very memorable.
  
  You may be wondering, with all this praise, what was wrong with the game, to answer that simply 
 it is... The Temple of The Ocean King . tTotOK was one of the most frusterating and boring parts 
 of the games. It's essentialy a temple you have to revist adn redo a grand total of about 5 or 
 6 times and you are garnered pretty much usless because
  a) you cant hurt anything
  and b) you are timed, and if you are hit by your enemy you are reduced time and life.
  It may 
 sound challenging and the prospect of challenge may make some gamers cream themselves with glee, 
 but it isn't as much the fun kinda of challenge as it is the frusterating and tedious kind of challenge. 
 The kind of challenge that when you re-enter the temple you save and dont have the will to play 
 it for the next day or two. Besides that temple though, the game is addicting beyond all amounts 
 of reason and the temple was probably put in just so you would out the ds down.
  
  Overall though, the game is a astoudning success, and while not up to par with the series alumni 
 (OOT, MM, TP, WW, LOZ, ALTTP) , it is still an amazing experince, and the best original handheld 
 zelda yet, if not the best handheld game for the ds.
  ' 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SamuelpukMM
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 3, 2007 7:19 am PT
Review:  FInally, Link coems to the DS. ANd whiel there, it links onto WInd wakers Storyline. Wind waker 
 was, if im honest, one of the worst zelda games i played. still good, but not brillaint. But this 
 takes the good parts of Wind Waker (except the graphics, which im not a huge fan of) and improves 
 on them. It's nto too easy-WW was so eays i gave up-and the sea isn't dependand on wind and too 
 time-consuming. THe controls are also new and brillaint-easy to contorl, responive, and all the 
 mini gaems with the stylus are genious. Make no msitake, buy this and you wont be disapointed. 
 what we have here is a zelda game with brillaint features. Unfortunatly, for me it doesn't hit 
 the 'bets zelda game ever' mark. It falls into a 3rd placement, behind Majora's mask/ OOT (tied 
 2nd) and Twilight Princess, which is probably THE best game ever. It's just that little bit too 
 short, nto so challenging you research things on the internet, and the phantom hourglass challenges 
 are stupid-which as they are a key feature to this game, is really very annoying. It's not that 
 they're horrible, it's just that they're not enjoyable. So really this is probably the best Game 
 on any handheld-an essential for your DS- but in a fight against it's bigger brothers, it looses. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jdlee05
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 2, 2007 8:13 am PT
Review:  The first thing you notice about Phantom Hourglass is the graphics. The cartoonish cell shading 
 fits perfectly with the DS and in the end the graphics end up looking really good. Much better 
 than if the graphics were in the style of Twilight Princess or other 3-D Zelda games.
  
  Next, you will notice the exclusive use of the touch screen to control your character. At first 
 it may seem a bit awkward but, after about five minutes you get used to it and you realize how 
 well the touch screen works. Sometimes it may take a few tries to swing your sword but, those occasions 
 are rare and after some practice it is no trouble at all. Also, the ability to write notes to yourself 
 on your map is very helpful and in some occasions necessary for you to figure out puzzles.
  
  The story for PH is very entertaining and actually quite immersive even if it is on the short 
 side. The plot is much like other Zelda games where you are charged with rescuing Princess Zelda 
 for her imminent doom. So, you travel around the world entering dungeons, solving puzzles, getting 
 new gadgets, all while trying to gain the necessary tools to complete your task.
  
  As a whole, PH is an excellent game. It is fun, the puzzles are clever (however, they are quite 
 easy) , and the story is entertaining. There also added minigames of fishing, salvaging, and old 
 favorites like archery and cannon games. Plus, the allure of collecting all of the parts for your 
 ships can add an extra element for those who are into collecting every thing in the game. The only 
 complaint I have is that the game is far too easy. I have never played a Zelda game all of the 
 way through without ever dying, that is until I played Phantom Hourglass. Also, if you get confused 
 on a puzzle the game makes it much too easy to solve. You can hit a nearby statue that will tell 
 you what to do. Or hit a pot close by and it will drop the tool you need to solve a puzzle. For 
 example, if you need to blow up a wall hit a pot and the pot will drop three bombs.
  
  I would recommend Phantom Hourglass for any fan of the Zelda series and any person who owns a DS 
 for its excellent use of the touch screen. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: redchina
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 1, 2007 8:39 pm PT
Review:  Zelda comes to the DS finally, and Link's first voyage is an excellent achievement.
  
  The biggest change in this Zelda from previous games is obviously CONTROL. The touchscreen controls 
 work extremely well, though they take an hour or so to get accustomed to. The touchscreen controls 
 actually give the game a level of precision unfounded in previous Zeldas. and Bombchus are actually 
 useful this time around!
  
  The graphics are amazing for the DS. It looks just like the wind waker. obviously, a lot of polygons 
 were reduced, but the charm and art style shine through just as brilliantly. A gorgeous game overall.
 
  
  Dungeon and puzzle design is great as well, being optimized around the touchscreen control. There 
 are plenty of dungeons in the game to keep you busy for awhile, a little over 10 hours of gameplay.
 
  
  Sailing has returned and it's not as tedious as in the Wind Waker.
  
  My favorite aspect of Wind Waker is the fantastic story and characterization. Every Zelda game 
 has a humourous character that just steals the show. In Twilight Princess, it was Midna. Here, 
 it is the ship captain Linebeck, who is responsible for some real laugh out loud moments.
  
  The Legend of Zelda Phantom Hourglass does justice to the series long running excellence. It's 
 a true Zelda game, no corners cut. Needless to say, it has my highest recommendation. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: phantom_14
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 1, 2007 7:35 pm PT
Review:  10= graphics-good 3D animation and beautiful desings
  
  9.0=sound - one of the strongest on ds and some clasic zelda tunes
  
  9.0=gameplay-boss battels 
 rocks and is fun to colect ship parts and fun puzzels
  
  9.0=lasting appeal-20 to 25 hours to complite, mini games and allot of side questes, multiplayer 
 battels are cool
  
  recommended to all DS owners you wount be disappointed.
  
  a  
  ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! 
 ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! !! !! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! !! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Ctrl_Alt_Dstroy
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 1, 2007 4:49 pm PT
Review:  The Legend of Zelda: Phantom Hourglass is the latest in arguably video games' most respected series. 
 It takes players directly after the end of Wind Waker into a new area of the great ocean. Seeking 
 treasure, Link's friend Tetra gets taken captive by the mythical Ghost Ship and Link follows. He 
 misses his chance however, and gets washed up onto a place called Mercay Island. After making some 
 very quick friends, Link learns valuable information and is off again on a large adventure involving 
 ingenious puzzles utilizing the DS's touch screen. The controls are basically flawless, and the 
 graphics look stellar compared to other DS titles. Although, the bosses were lackluster as usual 
 (they looked great, just never dealt any damage) , the multiplayer/wi-fi feature makes up for where 
 it falls short. Although every game has flaws one way or another, this game keeps them at bare 
 minimum to polish everybodys' favorite Zelda experience. If you have a DS and have not picked up 
 this game, I (and everybody else who has it) encourage you to do so right away. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Red_Trigger
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 1, 2007 4:25 pm PT
Review:  The legend of Zelda series has been one of Nintendo's best and long lasting series ever. Phantom 
 Hourglass shows how much the marvelous series has changed, yet keeping a formula much similar to 
 Link's 8 and 16 bit outings. Controls are superb, attack enemies by tapping on them or drawing 
 a line in front of Link, shoot your bow, throw your boomerang, and plant down bombs without flaw 
 (this is quite entertaining too) . The story continues after the events of Wind Waker when Link 
 Finds himself on a far away island. Gathering a fairy, a sword, and a ship (that includes the greedy 
 captain Linebeck) Link heads to sea to save his friend Tetra (Zelda) and collect the spirits (colored 
 fairies) . The story is the same old Zelda concept, including small plot twists, memorable characters, 
 and just like in Ocarina of Time, an annoying fairy. The dungeons are all wonderfully layed out 
 and bosses are all fun to take down. Zelda Perfection right? Not all the way. Phantom Hourglass's 
 only major flaw is the tedious Temple of the Ocean King which you'll have to repeatedly visit over 
 and over again to collect sea charts. The truly repetitive thing about the Temple is that every 
 time you enter again you have to repeat the same rooms you did before and stay under a time limit. 
 The game could have been left without the Temple and added more sea exploring too, although navigating 
 the seas is fun and customizing the ship is cool. Overall, Phantom Hourglass is a wonderfully crafted 
 Zelda title that any fan or total stranger to the series can dig right into. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: CaptAnt
Rating: 8.5
Date: Oct 31, 2007 8:35 am PT
Review:  a great Zelda game! however the ending leaves you wanting more, no does not satisfy, some puzzles 
 you could see coming a mile away and others were a bit tricky. Multi player is great, i would have 
 never seen an battle system on a Zelda Game done so well, and its works great over wifi. the story 
 was a little bland at time, but when i picked up you would not want to put it down until you found 
 out whats coming next. All and all for zelda fans this will be an all around great play, and i 
 loved it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: VRN-KingS-
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 31, 2007 4:23 am PT
Review:  *** SPOILERS!!!!!!!!!!!!! ***
  
  
  The Legend of Zelda.
  
  A Title EVERYONE must have heard of, whether you played the Original, The Legend of Link, Majora's 
 Mask or Super Smash Bros. Melee.
  
  The latest installment is one of the best. Well I say that but in truth ALL of Link and Zelda's 
 appearances have been of high quality.
  Okay Ill start off by breaking things down.
  
  The Legend of Zelda: The Phantom Hourglass (SinglePlayer) Storyline:
  
  You play a Unknown 
 Hero. (lets assume its Link. Even though its you :D )
  Leaving off directly after Windwaker, where you Rescue Tetra / Zelda and decide to sail the Seven 
 Seas together. As youre sailing you hear of a Ghost Ship and make way for it, a thick fog rises 
 as you approach.
  Despite all warnings from the crew Tetra jumps aboard, at which the Ship starts vanishing. You 
 attempt to jump aboard but fall into the sea.
  
  Later you awake on a strange beach. With a fairy suspiciously like Navi floating above you. Its 
 name? Ciela. Graphics:
  
  Everyone loves eye candy. And surprisingly, while the cutscenes ( if they can be called that) are 
 slick and sharp images; the gameplay graphics have much to improve upon. I've played Phantom Hourglass 
 on both DS and DS Lite for extensive time, there is little difference. On the lite the colours 
 are bright and buoyant, but no better with the dull edges. It looks like Im playing Majora's Mask 
 not the little sister to The Windwaker. Sound:
  
  The musical score during sailing I have to admit was rather plain, compared to Windwakers tremultuous 
 crashes and rises as you sailed and battled over the seas. Here its more of a whimpering sea shanty.
 
  While it does the job at invoking emotion at the right time, theres nothing special here. Touch 
 Screen:
  
  Almost perfect! LoZ: PH almost extensively uses only the TS to play. Although I do find my index 
 sneakily reaching for the shoulder triggers instead of pressing the equip icon. The Toggle Icon 
 for Equipment makes alot of hardwork for returning to combat.
  
  The homing Boomerang is a nice touch but the hype around it dulled its effect, however it proved 
 on of the most useful tools EVER.
  
  Drawing the maps ... Hmmm Iffy Is the phrase I believe. While HIGHLY useful theres simply not enough 
 room. If you could have zoomed in to be able to write smaller icons would have been handy.
  
  Gameplay:
  
  Like a true Zelda game its all there. The Boss Keys, annoying armoured Chu 
 Chu's and fiendish innovative puzzles.
  The combat controls while wok in theory, dont work too well in the heat of things. I often found 
 myself resorting to the Hookshot, or just 'Tap Killing'.
  The side slash was hard to pull off without moving inches, and the forward lunge more often resulted 
 in you being sideswiped.
  
  However its the puzzles that make a Zelda game and there are plenty.
  From the simple and mundane 
 like grabbing a Cucco and jumping to closing the DS to stamp a logo onto your map.
  
  My only quip with LoZ: PH is that you cant continue after completion, and that the ending while 
 emotional was in retrospect predictable. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cystia
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 29, 2007 12:33 am PT
Review:  Before release I was worrying about the control.
  After it launched I hope Nintendo uses this control system for all the later Zelda games.
  
 
  The control scheme can be concluded in three words: Easy to learn, simple, short learning time 
 allows you to enjoy deeply into the game. The boss fights are carefully designed. You have to spot 
 the weaknesses of each boss and beat them using specific methods.
  
  As a new Zelda gamer, the game is still easy -- I mean, you can get pass all the riddles if you make 
 thinking. But the point is you really need to think. I highly recommend this game to everyone, 
 especially those who didn't play Zelda series before. And now I am a Zelda lover! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: aldagrimtook
Rating: 8.5
Date: Oct 28, 2007 10:50 pm PT
Review:  I love this game, but having to go through the same exact dungeon just deeper down every tilme 
 is just plain wrong. This Zelda game like most is a very groundbreaking game with new ways of using 
 the stylus and new and unique game mechanics. The game seems to be a bit easier then previous Zelda's 
 due to being able to find just the right weapons in abundance every time you need them. The only 
 drawback I can see though is repetive use of the the temple of the ocean king. Repeating that dungeon 
 every other dungeon is not just wrong but painful. If the creators would of just done a little 
 more work and made more dungeon other than just make you go deeper into the same dungeon (even 
 with the teleporter) this game would of been a sure bet for game of the year. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MrDziekuje
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 22, 2007 8:07 am PT
Review:  The Legend of Zelda: Phantom Hourglass is the true sequal to The Wind Waker, and only the second 
 true sequal in the series. Link, Tetra, and the pirates set sail in waters untouched and unknown 
 by the events in Wind Waker. The story quickly kicks off when Link and the gang encounter a fabled 
 Ghost Ship far out at sea. Tetra jumps on board to investigate moments later screams in panic. 
 Due to a thick mist, Link can't see the antagonist of the situation but attempts to save his friend 
 regardless. Unfortuantely (well depending on your point of view because, of course, we want to 
 play the game) Link shorts his jump and plummets into the ocean. He then is awakened by a fairy 
 named Ciela on a beach. Ciela takes Link to her "grandfather", an elderly man named Oshus who saved 
 Ciela who claims to have saved Ciela, who lost her memory, in a similar manner. After a few more 
 events in the story, Link arms himself for another adventure meeting Linebeck, a treasure-crazy 
 and initially cowardly sailor who provides transportation and even better in the end. Link needs 
 to collect the Sand of Time to add to the Phantom Hourglass which will bring him to the final confrontation 
 with the big baddie and allow him to save Tetra. Phantom Hourglass plays almost exclusively with 
 the stylus, giving the players option to hold L to harness a secondary weapon/item and the d-pad 
 for opening menus (both of which can be done with the stylus) . Movement is done simply by placing 
 the styus in the general direction you want Link to move. The father away from Link the stylus 
 is, the faster he will move. Making simple lines parallel to Link will cause him to swing his sword. 
 Different swings can be dealt with different lines. Items like the boomerang and bow are guided 
 by the stylus (though differently) . The controls are generally responsive, however a few of the 
 drawing puzzels are not as forgiving. The biggest problem with PH is that it just feels too small 
 next to the massive ocean in Wind Waker. Couple that with the game's length being on the shorter 
 end of the series and you've got yourself, nothing major, but a noticible flaw. If you aren't expecting 
 a mindblowing title, you'll really enjoy Phantom Hourglass, as I did. It still holds up as a true 
 Zelda game and remains fun until the very end. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: koolmankris
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 28, 2007 4:56 pm PT
Review:  I got my DS back in May and I've been enjoying it ever since. But I haven't really found a game 
 to hold my attention for more than a half-hour or so up until this point. I loved Mario 64 DS, 
 and New Super Mario Bros. and even had fun blowing heads off in Resident Evil. But once I finished 
 'em, I didn't get them out much anymore unless it was to play the odd minigame while on the road 
 (Mario Poker was a clear fave) . But with this new Zelda here, I've been spending a lot more time 
 playing DS at home, even though I have a 360 (with Halo 3, Orange Box, and BioShock) . Of course 
 Phantom Hourglass doesn't QUITE offer the same experience as those games, it's a hell of a ride. 
 There are a few things that might scare fans away, but mostly, these changes are great and don't 
 ruin the game. First of all, there is practically NO use of the buttons here. The whole game (except 
 some map/menu stuff) plays with the stylus, and it's nearly flawless. Players guide Link in the 
 familiar top-down perspective (similar to Link To The Past) using the stylus, and tap the screen 
 to stab, slash, and hack away at enemies (some of which are also familiar and new) . Drawing a circle 
 around Link quickly causes him to do the sword-spin maneuver, damaging anybody or anything dumb 
 enough to get close. You can also throw a boomerang and DRAW its path, letting you hit switches, 
 baddies, and more, and however you like. You can also draw a path and release bombchus (rodent-like 
 bombs) to run through small holes, or attack distant enemies. And yes, you still have things like 
 the bow/arrows, and bombs. But there's also a return of one item which acts sorta new altogether. 
 In The Wind Waker, the grappling hook was a new tool which was sort of like a hookshot. It's back 
 this time. And while it actually replaces the hookshot, it can also be used to form a tight-rope 
 to walk across, as well as a type of sling-shot. With the tight-rope feature, link can lean into 
 the rope, and then sling himself over and across some gaps and obstacles.
  But the game isn't entirely top-down and built like the old classics. It also blends a lot more 
 from Wind Waker, mainly the open-sea setting. Since the game takes place after the Wind Waker, 
 the land is still covered in water, although it isn't really Hyrule either. With the fall of Ganondorf 
 at the end of Wind Waker, he actually has no moment in Phantom Hourglass. Instead, the story is 
 mainly about Link and Tetra (who is a descendant of Princess Zelda) . Early on in the game, while 
 looking for treasure with her Pirate crew and Link, she vanishes and becomes captured by the Ghost 
 Ship, a derelict vessel that wanders the sea, capturing people and taking their souls. Amid the 
 confusion, Link is thrown overboard and washes up on a new island in a previously unknown world. 
 Well, unknown in the way that it's new from all the other games. Naturally you come across a sword 
 and shield and have to set out to save Tetra, as well as uncover the secret of the Ghost Ship. 
 It doesn't make this a bad game, but I find it to be a funny ( if not annoying) thing that this 
 takes place almost immediately after Wind Waker, yet Link must yet-again find a sword and shield, 
 and all the other stuff he had before. I guess he figured that after defeating Ganondorf, he'd 
 just toss it all away, and that he'd probably never go on another adventure ever again... Ha, the 
 thankless life of a hero...
  But somehow, these games just keep pulling us back in, and like obedient little heroes, we're always 
 more than willing to do the hero-thing again and again.
  The reason WHY this game gets such an easy recommendation from me is because of the same old formula 
 that's been working since the late 80's in the very first Zelda game. There are surprisingly quite 
 a few dungeons to explore, and cool items and weapons to collect, and the puzzles are pretty fun 
 too. What really ups the ante is the Wind Waker-style gameplay. After washing up on shore, you'll 
 meet a guy named Linebeck, who agrees to let you use his ship to save Tetra, while snagging the 
 odd bit of loot that crosses your way. As in Wind Waker, you'll explore several islands, some of 
 which are uncharted and secret. On some islands, you'll find villages, dungeons, and more. Some 
 will even hide secrets, like treasure maps. Using the maps you can then go out on the open sea 
 and pull up treasure using the ship's salvage tool. Some treasure might be huge caches of rupees, 
 while some may yield other things, like customizable parts for your ship! Changing ship parts affects 
 stats, like your ship's armor, and is a fun feature. Only a few things draw the game back a bit, 
 but most of these are more than forgivable. The first thing is that the overall world isn't nearly 
 as big as Wind Waker. Actually it's much smaller... But it's still huge, considering it's on a handheld. 
 You'll also discover each section at a controlled pace, similar to Grand Theft Auto. This isn't 
 a bad thing because you'll spend a fair bit of time before actually seeing everything. Riding around 
 on the sea isn't NEARLY as interactive as Wind Waker either. You can't actually get off the boat 
 and swim around or anything. You can dock with some ships, like Beedle's shop ship, but you can't 
 actually hop off and swim to it or walk around outside it... Big deal though. Sailing is still somehow 
 more fun than it was in Wind Waker, possibly because you don't spend nearly as much time sailing 
 around empty areas. Sure Wind Waker was bigger, but you could go for miles without seeing a single 
 thing. Here, just draw the course you want to sail on your map, and the boat drives itself. Since 
 you don't need to worry about navigation too much, this leaves you free to do other things, like 
 scout for treasure, or engage enemy ships in fun ship-to-ship battles. Also worth mentioning is 
 that the sailing portions of the game are more 3D-ish and not top-down, and actually create the 
 illusion of a full console game.
  The game also has a multiplayer mode, but unfortunatel it isn't nearly as good. It plays out in 
 a sort of Pac-Man/hide-and-seek style. One player controls Link, and must gather as many pieces 
 of Triforce and return them to a specific base while the other player controls 3 Phantoms trying 
 to hunt Link down and protect the Triforce. If the other player catches Link and manages to attack 
 him (the game automatically attacks) then the round is over and switches players. It's kinda fun 
 but could be better. I would've liked to see a multiplayer mode where players could customize their 
 ships and sail around an arena or something, and have battles with eachother. Hopefully Nintendo 
 does something like that with the next Zelda, be it on DS or to a lesser extent, the Wii.
  Phantom Hourglass has gotten some criticism that it might be too easy for some people, but it's 
 still well-worth buying. I don't like to honk my own horn, but I'm kind of a veteran when it comes 
 to these games... But there was still enough challenge here for me. The new control style isn't 
 too hard to learn but it adds a new dimension to the challenges as well, so it should work well 
 for anybody who loves these games. A solid 10 out of 10! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: k_smoove
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 28, 2007 11:02 am PT
Review:  I'm not here to tell you about this game, I'm here to review it. You've probably heard all about 
 the plot, so I won't bother repeating it.
  
  Pros: Most cinematic Zelda experience so far; sailing is actually loads of fun; graphics that push 
 the DS to it's limits; lots to do outside the main quest; Creative use of items; Epic boss battles 
 ; Linebeck.
  
  Cons: Returning to the Temple of the Sea King over and over again can be annoying, but it's still 
 kind of fun to try and beat your old times; not that many items; main quest isn't as long as most 
 Zelda titles, but still long enough.
  
  Gameplay: Phantom Hourglass follows the typical Zelda formula, which is a good thing, but adds 
 lots of new things to it thanks to the Touch Controls. The controls are really what makes this 
 game so great; if it had been made on any other handheld, Phantom Hourglass would be good, but 
 not quite the masterpiece it is in this form. Anyway, some of the puzzles will feel familiar, but 
 with a small twist. Others are brand new and very creative. The Temple of the Sea King, annoying 
 as it may be, has some of the best puzzles I've ever seen in a Zelda game. Sailing is a huge upgrade 
 from Wind Waker. 10/10
  
  Graphics: Absolutely, without a doubt, the best any DS game has done. Phantom Hourglass keeps the 
 Wind Waker's cell-shaded style, which you'll either love or hate (most likely love) . It also happens 
 to be the most cinematic Zelda game as far as I know. Lots of beautiful and hilarious cutscenes 
 abound. 10/10
  
  Sound: Not the best I've heard in a Zelda game, but the sailing theme is great. Boss music is epic, 
 town themes fit properly, but the field and dungeon themes are repetitive and boring. 8/10
  
  Value: You know what you're getting when you buy a Zelda game, and that holds true here. The 
 main quest is only about 15-20 hours, but you'll add at least 5 more hours to that when you search 
 for all the treasure maps, treasure, and 60 Spirit Gems. You can also customize your ship with 
 tons of options. There's even a 2-player online and local Capture the Flag mode, which is supposed 
 to be fun, but I haven't played it yet. 10/10
  
  Final Words: If you have a DS, get this game right now! Seriously, don't hesitate, go get it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: simian92
Rating: 5.5
Date: Oct 28, 2007 1:42 am PT
Review:  I'm not saying that PH is not a good game, but from the Zelda series, i was expecting much, much, 
 more.
  
  Gameplay - The Legend of Zelda: Phantom Hourglass attempts to reach back and grab some of the s-t-y-l-e 
 of Wind Waker, and doesn't pull it off very well. the puzzles are either way to easy, or do something 
 you wouldn't expect, I mean that in a bad way. For example, after finding out that you can make 
 a tightrope between two wooden objects with the hookshot, you can then slingshot yourself by using 
 that rope. while most of the bosses are creative and fun to play, the dungeons in particular seem 
 too short and are tedious, using the same strategy over and over again (you get a new weapon, then 
 EVERYTHING in that dungeon has you use it in the same exact way for the remainder of the rooms) . 
 The one thing that could have saved this game would have been the sailing, which was fun in WW, 
 in this game, it serves simply as the only way to get from place to place, and a very tedious transportation 
 system at that.
  
  Graphics - Phantom Hourglass did an amazing job reaching back and using the graphics from WW, many 
 people dislike WW's CG graphics, i for one, did not. and am very happy that Nintendo decided to 
 use CG, the characters all look and move fluidly, the cut-scenes are pulled off nicely, and all 
 in all, make this game anything better than medicore.
  
  story- the story in PH is that princess Tetra/Zelda was kidnapped immediately following the events 
 of WW, and you have to, of course, save her. by almost drowning, getting saved by a fairy, getting 
 your weapons all over again, and battling Ganon, just kidding, instead of ganon, you battle some 
 random black thing. go figure. following all the incredibly short dungeons (all 6 of them) you 
 have to go through another dungeon, named Temple of the Sea King which has roughly 15 floors, and 
 every time you reach it, you have to go through EVERY level over, every time you leave, the dungeon 
 resets itself.
  
  Multiplayer - thats right, the fist Zelda game with it, and it doesn't do a very good job. in Multiplayer 
 mode, you can either play online, wireless, or single card, and they all are played exactly the 
 same sadly. on any of the eight maps, though most people seem to pick back-to-back map one of the 
 players plays as link, and has to run around, grabbing giant triforce pieces called force triangles, 
 and return them to his safe zone, while the other player controls 3 phantoms, giant, lunbering 
 guards, with the stylus by drawing them a path and having them follow it. when the timer runs out 
 or the phantoms get close enough to link to hit him, the players switch. it is creative, but gets 
 repetitive quickly and everyone uses the same strategy, and either wins, or disconnects.
  
  All in All, Zelda: Phantom Hourglass is a decent game, but one of the worst games with the words 
 Legend of Zelda in the title. and one of the worst multiplayer games for the DS 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Soulreavercross
Rating: 8
Date: Oct 27, 2007 1:08 pm PT
Review:  The Legend of Zelda: Phantom Hourglass is the first Zelda game for the Nintendo DS system. However 
 the game is far from perfect and gamers who are familiar with the series and a challenge will be 
 utterly disappointed.
  
  The Legend of Zelda: Phantom Hourglass is the sequel to The Legend of Zelda: Wind Waker for the 
 Game Cube. It keeps all most of the games unique art style and the gameplay is specially formatted 
 to make full use of the Nintendo DSs touch screen.
  
  The game makes full use of the touch screen. The buttons are of little or no use in this game. 
 You may only use the shoulder buttons now and again to set up to use your equipped special item. 
 Everything you do in the game involves using the stylus. You point/move the stylus to wherever 
 you want link to go. You battle enemies by tapping them on the screen, Link will automatically 
 move towards them and slash them, you can strike the stylus for Link to do a slash or you can draw 
 a circle around link for him to do a circular slash. Different moves require different strikes 
 of the stylus and everything here works surprisingly well and its almost flawless. The basic sword 
 combat is not the only thing you do in the game, like I mentioned earlier this game makes full 
 use of the DS, such as blowing on it, shouting on the mike, even closing the DS to solve a puzzle.
 
  
  Just like all other Zelda games, you pick up various items throughout the game that aids you in 
 your quest or defeating enemies such as the bombs, hook shot, bow and arrow, boomerang etc. Some 
 of these items are given new life with the DS for example once you select your boomerang to use, 
 you can plot out its course with the stylus.
  
  All of the items you collect are for use in later dungeons and to solve puzzles in the game however 
 the dungeons are extremely short, puzzles simple and combat is little to no challenge whatsoever. 
 Previous Zelda games provide a challenge in all those categories, including Wind Waker, but thats 
 not the case with Phantom Hourglass. This game was toned down drastically and made brutally simple 
 and easy. Hardcore gamers and gamers familiar with the Legend of Zelda series will breeze their 
 way through this one.
  
  One good, but also bad thing about the game that made it easier is the ability to jot down various 
 things on the maps. It doesnt sound like a big deal; however later on making notes while you visit 
 places will make your game easier than ever especially in dungeons where you are required some 
 number or pattern to solve puzzles.
  
  The games graphics are a bit choppy and pixilated, especially in the cutscenes, but the DS is 
 no graphical powerhouse and games on portables will never look as good as its console counterparts 
 so its no use trying therefore, the cell shaded graphics was a step in the right direction for 
 the DS.
  
  There isnt any voice acting in Phantom Hourglass. Instead theres text to read, but its not a 
 lot fortunately. The characters are memorable and some of them youll remember from Wind Waker 
 obviously. The soundtrack wasnt perfectly done, but it was still awesome and sounded great especially 
 while sailing on the open seas.
  
  Once you set foot on a new island or area you will have the map for that area; however you are 
 required to locate and track down the 4 sea charts that open up new areas in the game.
  
  Now this is a Wind Waker sequel therefore youll be doing a lot of sailing, however sailing is 
 different in Phantom Hourglass, you simply plot out your route and youre off. Youll eventually 
 gain a cannon and youll be able to fight off enemies such as sea creatures and pirates (and the 
 occasional boss) as you sail. Picking up treasure is done in a kind of mini-game where you guide 
 the salvage arm down, grab the chest and then bring the arm up, obviously, youll need a treasure 
 map in order to locate the treasure and they are scattered throughout the game. One of the main 
 flaws in the game is the Temple of the Ocean King, where you have to locate all the sea charts 
 and the final boss. It gets repetitive doing the same things over and over because once you leave 
 the dungeon, everything gets reset and you have to start again from the very beginning. Sometimes 
 a new item may help you out by opening out a short cut, but some of the objectives to enter the 
 new areas remain the same and it soon became a drag to constantly be going back and forth at that 
 dungeon. Luckily theres a halfway point that you can teleport yourself to once you reach it, but 
 it still gets repetitive doing the same things pass that point too.
  
  Another major flaw in the game is the short main story quest that lasts around 10 hours to complete. 
 It does have a lot of side quests but dont expect to spend a lot of time on them. This is not 
 a 40 or even 30 plus hour game like other Zelda titles. Once you complete this game, chances are 
 youll put it downor if or have Wi-Fi, play the multiplayer mode.
  
  The ending was kind of weird but very satisfying. It reminded me Legend of Zelda: Links Awakening 
 for the GameBoy. The Legend of Zelda: Phantom Hourglass was a great effort however it wasnt good 
 enough. Short and simple gameplay as well as a bit or repetition prevented this game from scoring 
 higher. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: onlyforthetrnty
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 26, 2007 10:00 pm PT
Review:  Being an immediate sequel to the legend of zelda windwaker, Phantom Hourglass doesn't do to bad 
 a job. There are very interesting and somewhat realistic characters that are actually pretty well 
 developed, the story line makes sense, dungeons are challenging, items are aplenty, and i could 
 keep going on and on. It does everything a Legend of Zelda title should do, and the graphics aren't 
 too bad either considering it's for the DS. The storyline is the usual, you have to go and save 
 zelda again from some weird monster, and you gain many friends and items along the way. This time, 
 you can actually get fairy upgrades which are pretty cool. The gameplay is pretty good, 15-20 hours, 
 and its very satisfying. The gameplay is very smooth, which is surprising since it uses only the 
 touchpad, and they make the puzzle setting just right, not enough to get angry at, but good enough 
 not to feel like something is left out. Overall, this is a must have for the DS. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Master_Chic531
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 26, 2007 9:25 pm PT
Review:  i really like this game alot! and i can say it is easily the best DS game. Though i havent beat 
 it yet, i have seen many things to write a review:
  
  first off, i love that the game has challenging puzzles and riddles. most i have sat there for 
 a good half hour trying toi understand, then freaking out when i find it out and it happens to 
 be the easiest puzzle.
  
  secondly, i love the music. like gameinformer has said it was definately Nostalgia, Nostalgia, 
 Nostalgia!! I absolutly love the ocean theme. you can even here the original tune from windwaker. 
 and i love the pirate theme
  
  thirdly, i love the storyline. it has had me laughing at some of the little things they say and 
 the face effects of link. and i absolutley love tetra in the beginning.
  
  and last, but not least, i love the battles. it is full of things that keeps you thinking.
  
 
  all in all , the game was excellent, and i congratulate nintendo for another excellent legend 
 of zelda game. Thanks! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: B4ttered
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 26, 2007 3:25 am PT
Review:  The legend finally arrives on the nintendo ds, with the ds being out for a few years now, and not 
 a single zelda title arriving until this one.
  But is this the zelda title that ds and zelda fans have been waiting for?
  
  The story of the 
 game is that when Link, Tetra and her band of pirates are sailing some waters, they come across 
 a ghost ship. Tetra's keen eye for something which may contain treasure urges her to jump aboard.
 
  After hearing her scream, Link also attempts to jump onto the ghost ship, only to fall off and 
 into the ocean.
  Link awakes on an island in an area of sea that he has never been to before. There he meets up 
 with ciela the fairy and her grandpa , who both decide to help link find the ghost ship and save 
 his friend from certain doom.
  Link soon meets up with Linebeck, an arrogant yet cowardly ship owner, with an eye and nose for 
 treasure and a ship of his own. Linebeck agrees to help Link save his friend, and thus the adventure 
 begins.
  
  The presentation of the game is very nice. Both screens are used on the ds, with the bottom screen 
 being the screen you use to control link. Great use of the mic and touchscreen.
  
  The game's graphics look fantastic for a ds game. It's visuals are full 3D and follow on from windwakers 
 cartoony look, cutscenes look fantastic and the the graphics certainly suit the game and show that 
 a great side of the ds' power.
  
  The sound in the game may not have the epic heroic feel of the previous zelda games, but it certainly 
 stands out as one of the best sounding ds games around. Your going to want to use some headphones 
 with this game, or even plug in some portable speakers, as this game's soundtrack is certainly 
 exciting and brilliant, and sounds great in surround with the headphones.
  
  The gameplay is the most important feature of the game, as all Nintendo fans would of probably 
 said at some point by now. The game uses the ds touch screen fantastically. Forget buttons, all 
 you have to use is your stylus and your ds. The controls work perfectly and Nintendo have really 
 hit the nail with the hammer. Straight from the start it's easy to get into the game and you will 
 learn the controls instantly, and probably wonder how you ever controlled a ds game without the 
 touch screen.
  Fighting multiple enemys at once is simple, as being able to do a spin attack returns and just 
 tapping an enemy will cause you to jump towards them and swing your sword.
  The touch screen is also used to a unique way with all of the items. Most noticeable is with the 
 boomerang, as you draw a path for it and it will follow that path and then return to you afterwards.
 
  
  The game will take experienced players between 15 and 20 hours to complete, but then after that 
 you can go back and discover all the treasure you missed, try the different mini-games which are 
 held on some islands, and even discover some side-quests. The only really annoying part of the 
 game is the temple of the ocean king, which you have to keep coming back to in order to get maps, 
 it get's very difficult later on in the game, and you will sometimes get quite annoyed at it, but 
 it's only a minor annoyance in a very fun game. Eventually, after finding everything there isn't 
 really much to do, but it will still be fun to try playing through the game again, or keep trying 
 to beat your best time in the temple of the ocean king. But even then that only goes so far.
  
  All in all, if your a zelda fan then you need this game. Even if your not then i would certainly 
 recommend this game to anyone with a ds and a like for small puzzle solving. Although it's certainly 
 not as difficult as some of the other zelda's, this game certainly stands out on it's own for it's 
 unique use for the touch screen and great gameplay and visuals.
  
  Presentation - 9.0/10
  Graphics - 9.5/10
  Gameplay - 10/10
  Sound - 9/10
  Lasting value - 8.5/10
  
  Final score 
 - 9.5/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bored_gamer
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 26, 2007 2:18 am PT
Review:  At first, I didn't enjoy using the touchscreen to play the game. I was more used to traditional 
 controls like the D pad and/or the control stick. After playing Phantom Hourglass, it occured to 
 me that it was actually a great way to play. Especially for the weapons you use in the game. I 
 actually liked how the gameplay was because all you have to do is use the stylus to attack and 
 use your items. You can also use the touchscreen to write stuff on your map like a route to get 
 through a fog or in a temple where treasure chests are, so this is definetely a great way to remember 
 where things are. I didn't like the backtracking but then again, most games; not necessarily Zelda 
 has a lot of backtracking, BUT you have to go to the Temple of the Ocean King over and over and 
 over again and that's where it gets annoying. Other than that, Phanton Hourglass is a great direct 
 sequel where it picks up when Wind Waker ended. Still a good game that takes advantage of the touchscreen 
 and stylus in so many elements. From signing your name to guiding a Bombchu, this was a great use 
 of the touchscreen. Definetely a new way to play Zelda. Although the game is pretty hard and there's 
 a lot of puzzles and it can take a while to figure things out but once you get through it, you'll 
 wonder how you even did it. In a world where the ocean is your road, one boy needed to save a girl. 
 That boy was a boy in green. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: omnifas
Rating: 8.5
Date: Oct 26, 2007 12:00 am PT
Review:  The Legend of Zelda: Phantom Hourglass
  
  Follow after the Wind Waker's Oceanic setting and directly after the story you and Tetra sail the 
 seas in search of the Ghost Ship. Of course Tetra gets captured and link attempts but fails and 
 washes up on the shores of your first town, where you are greeted by a fairy who escorts you to 
 a old man that will teach you the basics of combat.
  
  The controls of Phantom Hourglass are completely on the stylus, left or right handed the same functions 
 are on both sides. You move with the stylus by pressing down on the stylus in a certain direction 
 and link will move in that direction. Moves like the roll is performed simply by making quick vertical 
 zigzags on the edges of your screen. Combat is as good as it can get simply tap the enemy and link 
 will lunge at him or slash him, you can also perform manual attacks by drawing lines to do a horizontal 
 slash or draw a line going away from link to do a thrust, or draw a circle to do the spin attack (Nintendo 
 decided to add a dizzy effect after you do 4 of them, same for the roll.) . Overall the controls 
 are flawless with the exception of certain symbols required to draw to continue.
  
  The Fun tools given to you: boomerang, bow, shovel, etc. all play a role in the game and all use 
 the stylus very well. The boomerang you draw its path and it follows, the bow you aim and shoot, 
 the shovel need a quick ruby dig it up and X marks the spot to dig all play a role to find treasures 
 and defeat foes. The Exploration in this game I found to be absent, in the SNES Zelda Heart Containers 
 were hard to find if you play through it the first time with no help, along with secret rooms. 
 But in Phantom Hourglass alot of the Secrets and Containers were very easy to find. Simply talk 
 to NPCs get a destination and mark it on your map and go there and dig it up, might get a chest 
 or a treasure map. If its a map head to the X and salvage it. The dungeons as well were quite a 
 bit too easy even for the casual Zelda fan. Puzzles inside each dungeon could be solved at a glance, 
 mostly look for the sign, note it on your map then solve it at the location. The formula for the 
 dungeon has turned for the worst, mostly encounter grab the key, then open the lock and the occasional 
 puzzle that has a sign with the answer on it. Overall most of the puzzles were answered for you. 
 Boss fights are wonderfully fun but far too easy. The Ocean Sailing is simple draw your route and 
 the ship automatically follows it and the frequent monster jumps out of the water for you to kill, 
 I feel this part of the game could have been better. If Phantom Hourglass had followed the Classic 
 formula from Link to the Past, the overall gameplay would have increased 10 fold but overall a 
 fun and lasting experience.
  
  The Graphics by far I consider the best on the NDS, the view distance on the ocean is high, the 
 surroundings are lush and colorful, cutscenes have cinematic feel to them and are nicely rendered.
 
  
  Sound was very well done, the music score was properly fitted into each location, though I wish 
 theyd would have used the Link to the past Town Theme.
  
  There is multiplayer in this game but I have no friends or a wifi to play it. But from the tutorial 
 given it looks fun.
  
  Overall this zelda lives up to the wait but I wished it would have been longer, the most you'll 
 spend playing it will be 25hrs. Not Revolutionary but it is the first of the series on the DS and 
 it is great for the first attempt.
  
  
  Presentation: 9.5/10 - Love the Cinematic feel to the game, use of both screens is done well.
 
  
  Gameplay: 8.5/10 - Controls are almost flawless, puzzles are easy, exploration is absent, could 
 have been better, overall its still fun.
  
  Graphics: 10/10 - By far the best on the NDS.
  
  Sounds: 9/10 - not as great as other zeldas 
 but good enough.
  
  Lasting Appeal: 8.5/10 - Short can be completed in 10 hours but if you complete side quests 25hrs 
 at most. Multiplayer adds to the lasting appeal as well.
  
  Overall: 8.5/10 (not average) - Could have been the only other zelda game with a10/10 at gamespot. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: app3095
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 25, 2007 5:23 pm PT
Review:  The Legend of Zelda is one of the best games on the DS and is a must own! What i will introduce 
 into my new reviews are the: Good and Bad. So here they are! The Good: Amazing Graphics, excellent 
 story, good use for the stylus, weapons like the boomerang are wicked and also multiplayer (wi-Fi 
 online)
  
  
  The Bad: Well..... nothing that`s why i rated a 10. So what happens in Phantom Hourglass is that 
 the story starts off when there`s a pirate captain, she finds Link (a. k. a. the name the u use in 
 ure profile progress) and turns into the princess Zelda. They find a Ghost Ship, Zelda goes on the 
 ship, Link follows but falls off Zelda`s ship and ends up on an island. So I recommend this game 
 because of it`s cool graphics and alot more. But to find out the rest of the story, buy this game 
 and play it! This ends my 2nd review for the DS 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Bluedragoneer
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 25, 2007 3:23 pm PT
Review:  The entire time I played this game I was blown away by the graphics, I mean I know there not great, 
 but its new for the DS. What I found was the most interesting was that no matter if you had seen 
 the items before the were used so differently you couldn't tell. It reminded me of LoZ Ocarina 
 of Time how everything had changed since the 2-d games. Phantom Hourglass did the same thing and 
 if I knew for sure that I wouldn't get killed I would say that it was almost better than LoZ OOT. 
 So if have or haven't played Zelda this would be a great game to pick up. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Kinan_M
Rating: 7.5
Date: Oct 25, 2007 2:41 pm PT
Review:  As in every Legend of Zelda game, you have a Link. Same for every Zelda game, there is a princess 
 Zelda. Thus far nothing new. Make this a sequel to an existing Zelda game, nothing new either. 
 So where does the new stuff start? Simple, really. Nintendo has done away with the traditional 
 D-pad/analog stick controls and instead gave all the control to the screen. Great idea on paper. 
 Notsomuch in action. While some of the things are definitely cute and work well, the main problem 
 with the touch screen control, and which keeps it from feeling as natural as the makers had hoped, 
 is the fact that you steer with it. Like I said, great idea on paper. In reality though, this increases 
 the time between Link moving to the left first, and then suddenly moving to the right. Since you 
 have to move your stylus from one end of the screen to the other to do this. This gets in the way 
 mostly when you're trying to dodge and you end up being too late and get hit. Not only that, the 
 classic roll from all the 3D Zelda games is now done by making a quick scribble at the edge of 
 the screen. This makes it nearly pointless to roll except perhaps into trees to shake out vital 
 items and the like. Why is this pointless? Because by the time you manage to roll, you're often 
 too late already and you might has well have walked out of the way, if you're quick enough with 
 the stylus to begin with.
  
  This is the only real gripe this reviewer found with the game though, and everything else, from 
 the dungeons to the boss fights are great fun. As long as you can get by the sometimes overly silly 
 stylus controls. Next time, I would advise Nintendo to calibrate the screen in such a way that 
 you don't have to drag the stylus all over the screen for it to have the desired effect. To sum 
 it up: Typical Zelda game and therefore great, but cumbersome controls which get in the way on 
 occasion. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: smasher_crazy
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 25, 2007 10:39 am PT
Review:  this is the first zelda game i ever had, and its awsome... a bit frustrating at times if u dont 
 have the guide, but that's y its a great game. i first got this game 2 days ago, and couildn't 
 stop playin it. if u play it alot per day u'll prolly beat it really quick like me. love best best 
 best best best best best best best best bestjsdf sdfnsdjf dsn nsdfn nnnf nsdafn nsdfjk dnfsdfndsjkf 
 nd nd sdn dsnf nsdf sd df dfjsdf ewui fhuoewu eh eeewf h; hnf; oawj efhewrfuyfsajdfhvroi mreurhfouisangvreihsaodngvlka 
 whufh wuhf aiu haso uigraarguirh zh hvvzl; vhnvero f uiarehg ariu ghaoir gragh rng haorg rarvfnv 
 rn group r ng rrog kj a; ie aasldfkjjh jerirjhisalfdngjkfhgao gauoig haghasfjghgfj a kajfg sjag 
 hgkfg hrdafjg hjasdfgjfd fghjdkfa ggrh afjgh rj gha; jfghfghr ghjfghalkgh nbuadrnj hfgdfbvnbndfgnjfdb 
 hfg; hlkj fnb b bnjfgn ertgnireo thg teo ghedfogakj; g nagurob g rgerahgagnr r ghaoerig hr g roigh 
 ar r hriog harir r irog ieoarg hreaoapr rigehriogh oihrag hiro rrioag hrohrai grgirrhig rgri ri 
 agri gh rghoirhg ioera hgireoh  
::::::

::::::
UserName: wjmiiirep
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 25, 2007 4:26 am PT
Review:  If you have a ds you must play this game. i haven't finished a Zelda game in a while but I loved 
 finishing this game. It was a great portable game because you could play it in 15 minute chunks 
 and it wouldn't disrupt the flow.
  
  The graphics are good for the ds and the stylus controld work great. The pirate charachter is a 
 Depp-like pirate but it was still a great charachter.
  
  I have no complaints about the game. It is a class and a must-buy. My only complaint is that the 
 game is a little on the easy side. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: IndieRock13
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 24, 2007 2:15 pm PT
Review:  I didn't have high expectations for this game as I wasn't a fan of Windwaker. However, within the 
 first half-hour of playing I was absolutely hooked. The graphics work well with the DS and it is 
 probably the most beautiful game for the system yet. The controls are great and make the game seem 
 fresh. Switching items could be a little easier, but it's not that much of an annoyance. The enemies 
 generally tend to be too easy to kill also. In fact, that's my only real gripe with the game: it 
 is often far too easy. Some parts get kind of hard but the game always throws a plethora of hearts 
 at you to replenish. This isn't bad, as it makes it less frustrating, but at times it seems too 
 geared for children.
  
  Even still, it is my favorite Zelda game in a long time and I can hardly put it down! Highly recommended! 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: StillFreeTagger
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 24, 2007 11:43 am PT
Review:  The Zelda series has come a long way and deffinetly belongs in the Video Game Hall of Fame. Nintendo 
 has now released the latest of the Zelda series for the handheld, Nintendo DS. Behold the glory 
 that is The Legend of Zelda: Phantom Hourglass.
  
  The game takes place only months after 2003's Wind Waker. Link is travelling the scurvy seas with 
 Tetra (AKA Zelda) and her pirate crew. While doing so, they come across the dreaded Ghost Ship. 
 Tetra is captured by the evil ship and in an act of Heroism, Link drifts out to sea. He awakes 
 on a distant island, greeted by a fairy named Ciela. Together they must sail the seas to save Tetra, 
 along with a pirate named Linebeck. I like to think of Linebeck as my virtual ancestor, as my last 
 name is Hornbeck *spoiler!*
  
  Heh heh heh...
  
  The controls in Phantom Hourglass are perfect! They have no clunk to them whatsoever! You tap the 
 touchscreen in the direction you want Link to move. You can also tap on people to talk to them. 
 To fight enemies, you can draw a line on the screen in the direction of the enemy or just tap them 
 to do an automatic slash. Simple!
  
  Graphics are quite good for a DS game. It's the same engine from Wind Waker, cel-shaded. The models 
 are blocky as if you were playing it on N64, but it's the DS what do you expect? No big.
  
  Sound is great. For the DS capabilities, it does some justice. It doesn't sound all choppy like 
 some other titles. Everything's clear from Link yelling to a bomb exploding.
  
  That's all folks. If this was a console game, I'd probably say more, but none the less, Phantom 
 Hourglass is a deffinet buy and the best DS game out there. Another great installment for true 
 Zelda fans! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ocarina_jedi
Rating: 9.5
Date: Feb 6, 2009 11:48 am PT
Review:  "The Phantom Hourglass" is a sequel to the 2003 Gamecube hit "The Wind Waker," but ultimately, 
 the stories have very little to do with each other. Picking up where "Wind Waker" left off, Link 
 and Tetra (Zelda) are sailing across the Great Sea in search of new land. Along the way they find 
 the Ghost Ship. Tetra boards the mysterious vessel and disappears. Link tries to follow her and 
 falls into the ocean. He washes up on a faraway island where a fairy named Celia offers to help 
 him find his way back to Tetra. They meet up with a treasure-loving sea captain named Linebeck 
 who lets them ride along in his boat in hopes of finding riches. So the "save-the-princess" routine 
 starts up as expected, though it really does feel different this time.
  
  As Link's first foray onto the DS, this game controls very differently than its predecessors. Everything 
 (with no exceptions) is controlled by the stylus. It might sound troublesome, but it works amazingly 
 well. The stylus directs Celia, whom Link follows. If you want him to attack an enemy, tap it with 
 the stylus, or slash it towards them. Draw circles around Link to use a spin attack, or little 
 circles at the end of the screen to make him roll. Then there's the items. The item menu is accessed 
 in real-time at the bottom of the screen. Link can only equip one item at a time, and they all 
 make use of the touch-screen excellently. You'll draw paths for the boomerang and bombchus and 
 the bow and arrows have never been so accurate. One big complaint with "Wind Waker" was how tedious 
 the sailing was. That's not the case here. Linebeck's ship is a steamboat, so you can chart your 
 course ahead of time and then let the boat steer itself while you man the cannon. Water combat 
 is easy too. Simply touch a target to fire the cannon at it. Also, you can use the salvage arm 
 to find treasure on the sea floor (now an interactive process as you guide the claw past undersea 
 obstacles) , and there's deep-sea fishing (the most fun it's ever been) . As mentioned above, Link 
 can draw on maps now. You can write down hints and the solutions to puzzles as well as mark the 
 locations of stuff you'll want to remember. It's a great mechanic.
  
  The game also embraces some RPG elements by allowing you to customize minor aspects. Once you rescue 
 and power up some spirits, you can select one to be your fairy instead of Celia, and they'll give 
 you some bonus abilities. Also, you can find different ship parts to customize your vessel's appearance. 
 You can make some really crazy combinations, but some will increase your ship's dexterity, so choose 
 carefully.
  
  The traditional Zelda format is shaken up even more in its organization. Link's final destination 
 is available to him from the very beginning. However he can only make limited progress through 
 the Temple of the Ocean King, and will have to keep finding items and tools in smaller dungeons 
 which will let him travel deeper into the main dungeon. Additionally, Link is on a time limit while 
 in the Ocean King's Temple, and can gain more time in his Phantom Hourglass by defeating the bosses 
 of other temples.
  
  The graphics are top-notch quality of N64 standards. The game bears the same cel-shaded look of 
 "Wind Waker," though not as detailed. The camera is a hybrid of 3D and 2D games. While the graphics 
 are fully 3D, the camera follows a traditional top-down look, except on the boat, where it can 
 pan around. The music consists of classic Zelda tunes and a few new ones that fit in nicely. The 
 sound effects are crisp and everything comes through surprisingly clear. "Phantom Hourglass" is 
 a fantastic approach on a series that never gets old. In the future, developers all over will look 
 to this title as a landmark in video games that should be copied for quite some time. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: UF-Omen
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 24, 2007 7:43 am PT
Review:  On October the 19th the latest release in the Zelda franchise finally made it onto the DS, and 
 what a release it is. Despite its DS specific control style The Phantom Hourglass feels like a 
 Zelda from top to bottom, with no exceptions. You start with the generic Zelda story, one of your 
 friends/relatives gets kidnapped/disappears and you, as the protagonist, set out to find them and 
 inevitably find some sort of being of great power which you will have to find a special weapon 
 to even come close to destroying it. Thus you set off across the land/ocean finding rare materials 
 needed to do this that or the other. As you travel the land, you'll come across a few dungeons, 
 inside of which you'll find a new weapon that'll make previously un-accessible areas now accessible. 
 The Phantom Hourglass will also have you repeatedly visit a certain temple to progress you through 
 the game, which gets very repetitive very fast since you have to play through parts youve done 
 before to then progress to the further parts. It adds some replay value at the end of the game 
 in the form of your fastest time through the temple. If you're not a fan of repetitiveness, this 
 can get annoying, though manageable. The Phantom Hourglass is both linear and non-linear at the 
 same time. The path to the different dungeons is very clear and you wont find yourself struggling 
 to find where to go to continue the story. But you dont HAVE to follow it so to speak. Like any 
 Zelda game, there are side-quests to keep you busy in the form of Treasure at the bottom of the 
 sea, mini-games, searching for the elusive Heart Containers and in a new addition, Power Crystals. 
 Again, you don't HAVE to do these things, but they certainly elongate the life of the game and 
 add a little spice to the game. It is a formula that's worked for the Zelda series for so long, 
 and still works now. With a plethora of games for the DS struggling to really make use of the touch 
 screen in a creative and overall practical way without it being some sort of mini-game stretched 
 into being a sub-par &pound;24.99 title, The Phantom Hourglass manages to stray from the lot and 
 produce a very useable interface. You control Link with the stylus (the pointer at the end taking 
 the role of a fairy) , wherever you point to, Link will follow, and the further away from his body 
 the faster he travels and so on. If you've played Diablo II at any point in your life and have 
 enjoyed it, you'll feel right at home with the control scheme. Though there are times when your 
 hand will get in the way while fighting an enemy that requires more than the ususal slash = dead 
 routine, it's a small annoyance, but it easy to avoid. Attacking enemies ranges from quick movements 
 of your stylus or as simple as tapping the enemy, the latter being the only one you'll really need 
 for single enemies with the exception of one type. You could effectively go through the entire 
 game without using one button on the DS, though they're not completely useless. The buttons on 
 the DS are used as shortcuts for your inventory, map and so on, just to keep the pace up. The graphics 
 featured in The Phantom Hourglass are possibly some of the best to ever be featured on the DS screen. 
 The style of the artwork is the perfect compliment to the DS's hardware. Though they may not be 
 the most realistic graphics ever, they are pretty, and it really does feel like the sequel to The 
 Windwaker. Though the cut scenes can do with some serious anti-aliasing, it's perfectly within 
 range of what the DS can handle. Now, I usually play my DS with the sound off for many reasons. 
 But I was compelled to listen to this game. Since I'm a long-running fan of the Zelda series, I 
 know that it usually features great music for different areas, and The Phantom Hourglass is no 
 exception. Each area has a different musical score, each fantastically ambient and complimentary 
 to the area you're in, be it a snowy island, Egyptian island or a lush green meadow... island. It 
 also borrows from The Windwaker in the form of the score while you're cruising the waves and in 
 battle on the sea. Overall, The Phantom Hourglass provides a fantastically immersive game that 
 doesn't stray too far from the winning formula that's kept us playing the Zelda series for years, 
 and will keep us playing them for years to come. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jondbugg
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 24, 2007 4:29 am PT
Review:  The Challenging But fun game is long and worth taking the time to sit down and play it, or even 
 on the go. Because of the Touch screen Feature game play is more than button mashing. you feel 
 yourself become Link as you run through the levels. The Boomerang is a good part in battles and 
 makes it challenging to through a boomerang and slash at the same time. The storyline is great 
 and you'll have fun going along with it .Over all A FUN FUN FUN game. The only negative part is 
 that if you have a crappy touch screen the game is hard to play. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: indra_agustia
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 26, 2007 5:02 pm PT
Review:  The Good:
  * Smooth and nice graphics
  * Puzzles are challenging
  
  The Bad: Is it really the bad ...?
  * Generous resources (health, items)
  * Save file doesn't 
 give any details on how long we have played the game
  
  Phantom Hourglass is a unique and innovative entry in the series due largely to its exclusively 
 touch-screen-based control scheme. Everything you do in the game involves taps and swipes of the 
 stylus, from traditional fights and puzzles, to new and specialized functions that really change 
 the way you think about playing a Zelda game.
  
  Another game worth to be played and stayed in our collections. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Lunar52
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 23, 2007 10:48 am PT
Review:  The Legend of Zelda: Phantom Hourglass is an amazing game with amazing graphics (for the DS) , amazing 
 storyline and amazing gameplay. You start out as link (obviously) adventuring the seas with Tetra 
 in her amazing ship when, all of a sudden, The evil pirates on the ghost ship take her away. Now 
 Link has to travel the seas with an interesting pirate named Linebeck who, I think, is awesome. 
 Graphics: 9.5/10
  The graphics in Phantom Hourglass are simply amazing, for the DS. I love the cell shaded art style 
 because it reminds me of the old saturday morning cartoons when I was a wee lad. Controls: 10/10
 
  The controls in Phantom Hourglass are all controld with the touchscreen, yes i know i was doubtful 
 to, and it's perfect because u can just slice enemies, draw paths, draw on your maps and so much 
 more. Sound: 9/10
  The sound in Hourglass is good but not great. Sometimes, the sound can get a little bit staticy 
 but other times its good and clear. Don't le this stop you from trying the game out. Gameplay: 
 10/10
  The gamplay and the storyline are incredibly good with some twists and turns. The actual gameplay 
 itself spans from 15-20 hours long. It's definatly amazing though. Battle Mode: 8.5/10
  The Battle Mode of the game is the multiplayer part in which you play a game of capture the triangles, 
 similar to capture the flag, before the other teams phantoms get you. One team is link and he has 
 to get as many triangles as he can and bring him back to his area before the phantoms get him. 
 It's of but I've olny played it on WiFi and I always lose but It's ok. Final Score: 9.5/10
  This is a great Zelda game that I reccomend to any DS owner! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: WSGRandomPerson
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 23, 2007 6:43 am PT
Review:  This game is yet another great Zelda game. The story line is addictive in it's own way, wanting 
 you to play more to see what happens within the world of it. With every other Zelda game, this 
 game has it's own batch of weapons, and items with there own unique purpose. The characters have 
 good personality's, there not all bleak, and bland like other games. Some are funny, and some are 
 just serious. The touchscreen feature to this game made it so great, being able to just set it 
 down on a table, and use one hand to play was very handy to me. Being able to talk on the phone, 
 and play at the same time without having my shoulder hurt. Wonderful! The graphics are almost to 
 Wind waker status. I loved the graphics to this game, with the shading and everything. It becomes 
 very addicting once you start playing, but there is two downsides to this game. Having to go back 
 and forth to the same place, doing the same levels over and over, got really redundant, and very 
 annoying. The game was way to short, and if you are an advanced Zelda player, this game will be 
 a breeze to you. The puzzles in the game were very unique, and creative. The boss battles are fun, 
 and different. But end up still being way to easy to the a veteran to the Zelda world. All and 
 All, this is a Must Buy game for the Nintendo DS. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: alia999
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 23, 2007 6:11 am PT
Review:  finally, after many delays, it is finally here- the first true DS zelda! a game that screams quality 
 from left and right; from the superb visuals, to the absolutely awe-inspiring level design and 
 innovative gameplay, this is one game you're sure to love. despite a few flaws including the somewhat 
 annoying temple of the ocean king, and a full quest time of around 12-18 hours depending on your 
 skill level, this game is and was surely worth the wait. as mentioned, a true zelda- with plenty 
 a side-quest, and some (you could say limited) returning classical zelda tunes. the developers 
 have surely utilised the hardware on offer, with a game using the ds touch screen ONLY, and as, 
 i am sure all who have played it will know, it's great and definetaly feels comfortable. this zelda, 
 although some could say is a little on the easy side, is well suited and made as a handheld game. 
 despite it being slightly linear, the amazing dungeon design surely makes up for it. if you have 
 a ds, get this- dont have the money? steal some, and then get this, as long as you do- you have 
 my permission, to play this legendary game that lives up to its name. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: railszach
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 22, 2007 8:57 pm PT
Review:  When Zelda Windwaker was realeased in 2003 it was heralded as an instant classic, and Phantom Hourglass 
 is a fitting tribute to the original game, in fact it improves on it in many ways. The story is 
 much easier for one thing, many will get through it in a few marathon playing sessions. The game 
 is played entirely through the touch screen which is very innovative, especially for a title like 
 Zelda. The game uses no new weapons, but that's perfectly fine since old ones gain new functionality 
 through the DS touch screen. It also makes use of the DS's microphone which is used for several 
 odd segments. The story is long and some gripes from windwaker are fixed here -- the boat sailing 
 is a prime example. Wi-fi is also added to the mix for the first time in the series. In the end, 
 this game is second only to Twilight Princess and Ocarina of Time, all amazing for being Link; s 
 first DS lighting. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tman978
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 12, 2007 12:53 pm PT
Review:  You have to buy this game now, if you haven't already. Not because it's a Zelda game but because 
 it finally feels like something fresh and new. 
  
  Story wise, just like you've heard, It's a direct sequel to the Wind Waker. So you'll see a few 
 returning faces. Don't worry though if you've never played WW. The story doesn't force you to have 
 any prior knowledge of the aforementioned game.
  
  Neither does the game play. Like I hinted at in the opening paragraph, the game play is like no 
 other Zelda game.... or any other action adventure game to be honest.. It's like an RPG "The Sims" 
 just far less complicated. Like traditional "The Sims", you don't have direct control over Link 
 at all. Where ever you hold the stylus on the screen, that's where Link walks. The farther away, 
 the faster. Closer to Link and he walks slower. It's almost analog and is really responsive. You 
 wont believe it. With no direct control over link, you'll be playing so well, you'll be shocked 
 that you haven't always been playing games like this. The whole game can be played one handed literally 
 but when things get hectic or for smarter game play, you have the option of clicking on the L or 
 R buttons to instantly equip your chosen subweapon. As long as you are holding a shoulder button, 
 the subweapon will be available for use. Let it go and you're back to your sword. There are other 
 menu/map shortcuts too. 
  
  Graphics, they are a double edge sword. At certain points you forget it's a DS game. The graphics 
 are some of the best (if not the best) of the entire DS library....... but when the camera zooms 
 in, you wonder where the N64 anti "Jaggy" technology went. Also of note before I end, fighting 
 anything in this game is so fun but the boss fight are F'ing amazing and you never want them to 
 end. This game puts every DS capability to use. Even capabilities you never thought of (you'll 
 know what I mean when you get there lol) .
  
  
  Stop thinking about it. Get this game 
::::::

::::::
UserName: KingOfHyrule910
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 22, 2007 4:53 pm PT
Review:  Great game! best ds game ever made if you like legend of zelda games this is perfect for you and 
 if you like puzzle games and adventure games u would absolutly love this game. this game is great 
 but sometimes it gets on ur nerves because the puzzles r very hard but it is a revolution to gameing 
 and to the ds! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! 
 ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! 
 ! ! ! ! !! ! ! ! ! 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 ! ! !! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! !! ! ! ! ! ! !!!! ! ! ! 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Newfie_DS_Gamer
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 22, 2007 2:34 pm PT
Review:  GOD NO !! But that is not necessarly a bad thing. My Zelda experience is minimal to say the leasy, 
 played the orgional on my NES , I travled back in time with Link on my SNES...... and well there 
 it stops. Nintendo lost me with the N64 ( i find the controller uncomfterable but thats just me 
 ) so i have missed a lot in the way of Zelda games for the last decade or so.... but here i am alas 
 with Zelda : Phantom Hourglass in my DS and well I have to say i am truely impressed, not so much 
 that the series has lasted this long, or that the DS version is something totaly unlike any other 
 DS game out there, but the fact that after all these years and all the technological advancements 
 that Phantom Hourglass retains the orgional Zelda-ness that i knew and loved. From the opening 
 moments I was hooked, the great dialoug between charcters has continued to make me chuckle, from 
 the Animal Crossing : Wild World... to the over dramatic fairy who continues to jump in and speak 
 for Link any moment she can. This as im sure youve heard is not the hardest Zelda game out there 
 u probly wont spend a hour scratching ur head wondering how to get to the switch across the room 
 from u... since most dungens have a set path to follow from so getting lost is not to much of a 
 option... but there is still a lot of going here and there.... then back here and back there after 
 u get this item or that item... but hey that was clasic Zelda. Over all this is a must have for 
 a DS owner , if u dont believe me then its because you havent played yourself yet, and the decision 
 to make it a bundle with the DS itself was a WONDERFUL idea as it will surely get more Zelda fans 
 hooked on the DS... and want a game to start with !!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Nets535
Rating: 8
Date: Oct 22, 2007 4:38 pm PT
Review:  The Legend of Zelda: Phantom Hourglass is the DS sequel to The Legend of Zelda: Wind Waker, the 
 original GC game. Yes, the Zelda quirkiness is back, with your ship sailing into the rumbling waters. 
 Essentially, you don't need to play Wind Waker to know what the plot is in Phantom Hourglass, as 
 it is an all new original story.
  
  At the beginning of the game, you're on Tetra/Zelda's ship with her slaves. You run into the Ghost 
 Ship, Zelda runs for treasure, is kidnapped, you dive to the rescue, the fogs rolls in. There. 
 Wait, this doesnt this plot sound familiar? Anyways, you mysteriously end up on an island with 
 a fairy that is more than willing to find your long lost friend, as well as saving the seas from 
 evil monster (s) .
  
  Phantom Hourglass is controlled entirely by stylus, except the buttons can be used to bring up 
 the map and item screen/map uses. You'd think a Zelda game controlled entirely by stylus would 
 bomb in this game, surprisingly, it only makes it better. There are those rare instances where 
 you will tap the screen to move somewhere, but mysteriously, you hit a wall with your sword and 
 the Phantoms chase after you. About the Phantoms, they're part of The Temple of the Ocean King 
 which has to be the worst co called idea of fun the Zelda team has ever thought of. You need to 
 find 4 sea charts in order to delve deeper into the game. The Phantom Hourglass, in a nutshell, 
 is your death clock. You are acquiring Two + minutes as you beat a boss, starting out with ten 
 minutes in it. The Phantoms I mentioned earlier are indestructible knights that are watch - overs 
 in the castle. If they see you, run, and run fast to a safe zone, or you'll lose thirty seconds 
 off your death clock. This would not be much of a Con if the Temple didn't reset itself every time 
 you leave it, including when you warp out after you get your chart. There is that one warp halfway 
 through the Temple thankfully, but that next half is the more stressful part of the dungeon.
  
  There are five dungeons (including the Ocean King) , and all of them have linear level design. 
 It's not rare that you will be a temple in thirty to forty five minutes. There are no mini bosses, 
 some puzzles/tasks feel forced in order to just make you use your item more. Every boss is easy, 
 but they're all unique in their own way because they don't force you to hack and slash them, rather, 
 unique ways on how to defeat them. You will probably only die once against each one, but they're 
 still fun. A surprising feature is the map. Its one of those things where you think its something 
 you can get in every quality game, this is different, thanks to the DS. Bring up your map with 
 any button or stylus, and draw intersecting lines to help you solve puzzles, notes, and where treasures 
 are located. It becomes might handy, and this game would suffer greatly without it.
  
  Your sword attacks are limited to your forward swing, because your side slashes are slower, a caution 
 to scratching your screen, and your three sixty degree swing is only good in certain instances. 
 In Conclusion, it creates fighting enemies a chore
  Zelda's combat is always easy, but their puzzles are challenging and keeps the game fresh after 
 all these years. They're not in this game. The answers are practically given to you through the 
 numerous stone tablets that give you obvious clues. Miyamoto really wasn't joking when he said 
 Zelda and Galaxy would be easier for casuals. There is no other explanation why the islands and 
 dungeons are so linear than Nintendo's will to expand the market. If this continues, how can we 
 call Zelda our hardcore game? Your boat is controlled by the line you draw on your map with your 
 stylus. Your ship gets to the islands rather fast, as you can customize your ship with different 
 parts, adding a bit of reply value. This is a huge sacrifice, because annoying enemies are always 
 flocking your ship every 10 seconds or so, which completely destroys the relaxation feel that helps 
 exploration. Controlling your ship would have been a huge plus to the exploration type of people, 
 but to the people who want to move on, you'll like this aspect.
  Unlike Wind Waker, there is no morning or nights in Phantom Hourglass. This is a terrible move 
 by Nintendo, because exclusive tasks that made Wind Waker so special are out, as well as that grasping 
 atmosphere.
  
  Phantom Hourglass also seems to be missing many side quests. In order to further appeal to casuals, 
 you won't be hunting heart pieces down, they're limited down to only acquiring them after defeating 
 a boss. There are only a couple mini games, too.
  
  You'll be playing Phantom Hourglass from beginning to finish in about fifteen to twenty five hours; 
 it's a pretty lengthy adventure considering the limits of the DS. Youll be tempted numerous times 
 to just play the game for long periods of time, because of its odd addictively. But once youre 
 done, you wont find much reason to play again, unless youre interested in its multiplayer. Its 
 no Four Swords, but its good to play every now and then if you can get into it.
  
  Its surprising how Nintendo squished in a downgraded Wind Waker look, and still look beautiful. 
 This is truly the DS limit, but in order for it to be perfect, better modeling during cut scenes 
 would have been nice.
  
  The most disappointing aspect of Phantom Hourglass is its music/sound. You will hear re  hashing 
 of Wind Waker music, and the new soundtracks rehashing, which includes all the same temple, island, 
 caves, boss, etc. music. The new music is not even that great, except until the end game.
  
  If you some how found out a way to have never played Zelda before in your life, this is a good 
 place to start. For the rest of us, this is easily the worst Zelda game we have received in many 
 years. Still, I recommended this game mainly because of how well it uses the DS functions, its 
 charm, and odd addictivity. Phantom Hourglass is not a bad game, its just that you would expect 
 so much better from the Zelda team. Zelda fan or not, there is fun to be had with this game, and 
 you dont need to dig its treasure.
  
  Presentation: 8/10
  Game play: 8/10
  Value: 7.5/10
  Sound: 6.5/10
  Graphics: 9.5/10
  
  Overall: 7.9/10  Good!
  
  Pros:
 
  +: Addictive!
  +: Charm
  +: Graphics
  +Bosses
  +: Controls
  
  Cons:
  
  -: On - Rail Sailing
  -: Temple of the Ocean King
  -: Linear Designs
  -: Rehashing Music 
 (Which the new music is not particularly good anyways)
  -: Barely any Side quests
  -: Easy 
::::::

::::::
UserName: WiiMan21
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 21, 2007 6:56 pm PT
Review:  All I can say Is that it is Great!, I do not have enough time to explain all the great things about 
 this game. If I did, I would be playing Super Smash Bros Brawl on the WIi right now. The controls, 
 Awesome, The story line, Flawless, The graphics for a Ds game, Perfect. My number one favorite 
 thing about this game is the Controls, Using the DS's stylis to move link around the sea's, Fighting 
 bosses, and solving puzzles, is the best way to Do it. Once you collect Everything, You get a major 
 feeling of accomplishment in your stomach. Overall Rating 9.5! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: liukang666
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 21, 2007 3:21 pm PT
Review:  This is easily the greatest DS game of all time, period. Not only that, it is also the most innovative 
 game i have ever played... ever... Although my DS library isn't actually unbeleivable, i can tell 
 you most of the ones i have don't even compare to this game. Phantom Hourglass forces to make use 
 of EVERY feature the ds has to offer. EVERY ONE. PERIOD. That alone makes it a great game, but 
 thats not the end of it. Except for a couple of times, i was able to use the stylus perfectly. 
 It is very intuitive and simple to understand. Not only that, but the gameplay is simply fun. The 
 storyline is great ( i won't reveal it) , so everything is great, right? Even the multiplayer is 
 good. So, its great? Yeah. It's perfect? No. The main problem is actually the main part of the 
 game, making it somewhat of an enigma. The Temple of the Ocean King is not a normal dungeon by 
 any means. The thing is, its a 13 story SOB that will make you want to kill yourself. Although 
 you get a feeling of pride after beating it, it is stimply painfull and takes forever. You will 
 be begging your DS to let you get to the next dungeon, but you can't. That aside, the game is handsome, 
 smooth, and won't bore you. The only other problem is, aside from the short length and the TotOK, 
 the difficulty is nothing to a seasoned zelda patron. Nontheless, it is a worthy sequal to WW. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Spartan43will
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 21, 2007 3:01 pm PT
Review:  asdsadssssssssssssssssssss ssssssssssss ssss ss ss s s s ss s s ss s ss ss s s sss ss s s s s s 
 s s s s s s s s s s sss s s s s s s s s s s s s s s s s s s s s s s s s s s s s s s ss s s s s 
 s s s s s s ss s s ss s s s s sss s ss s s s s s s s s s s s s s s s s s s s s s s ss s s s s s 
 s sss s 
::::::

::::::
UserName: waZelda
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 21, 2007 12:02 pm PT
Review:  As you may remember from WW, Link, Tetra/Zelda and her crew, where leaving Outset in search of 
 a new land. As this game stats, Tetra is obsessing with a ghost ship that is said to hold a great 
 treasure. Then she gets kidnapped by the ship. Link jumps to her rescue, but falls into the ocean 
 and is left behind by the pirates. A fairy named Ciela wakes Link up on an island. Now Link will 
 have to find three spirits in order to locate the ghost ship. He will find that the ghost ship 
 drains the life force out of the land of the ocean king. Now once again, Link need to save the 
 day.
  
  The story is fairly simular to the other Zelda games. Still it is pretty great. The phantoms hourglass 
 is an item Link will need to go into the temple of the ocean king. Without it, his life force will 
 be drained. For every dungeon he works his way through, more sand is fille on the hourglass and 
 two minutes are added.
  
  PH isn't as simular to WW as you migth expect. Link is guided by a fairy with a strong personality. 
 Along is also an adventurer named Linebeck, who is a coward who talks pretty loud of himself. He 
 and Ciela instantly becomes enemies. You will also encounter an enemy not seen in the Zelda series 
 before. In order to defeat him, you need the phantoms sword, which is the phantoms hourglass and 
 three pure metals.
  
  Now, over to the new control system. You don't really need more than the stylus. You touch the 
 screen and Link will walk in that direction, you tap an enemy to attack or spin the stylus around 
 Link to do a swing attack. You use items by touching the top corner of the screen, then tap. You 
 can choose from the item menu which item to equip. This control system is really great. You will 
 feel like you have a lot more freedom to move. Also in battles, it feel great. Some times though, 
 when you have to sircle around your enemies (which is a common strategy in Zelda games) it isn't 
 that great. Also, the reaction when you do a spin attack is not so good, which will bug you in 
 one of the boss battles. However, the gameplay is amazing. Also, there's a lot of good puzzles 
 in there. Sailing the seas is far better than in WW. You draw a path with the stylus, then Limebeck 
 will control the ship while you handle the cannon.
  
  As you migth expect for a Zelda game, the dungeon design is great, except maybe from one of the 
 dungeons. The boss figths are no less than brilliant. It takes good use of the controll system. 
 Although the final battle is somehow disappointing.
  
  The game looks great. At least if I compare it to the four DS games I've played before. It has 
 some amazing cutscenes, it gives the characters personality and sometimes a bit of humour.
  
  The side quests are few, very unlike WW. But there are some pretty good ones. You can choose 
 to find the treasures at the bottom of the sea (this time you control the arm as you lower it into 
 the sea) and maybe fishing (which also has a new control system) or you can take some of the fun 
 mini-games (for instance the Goron race on the island formed as a DS) . It is easy to make big money 
 fast in this game. I never reaches the maximum amount of rupees (though at most I had more than 
 four thousand) . A lot of rupees is helpful, especially if you seek to find all the ship parts. 
 That's right, you can customize your ship. There are eight diferent ship parts, and nine sets to 
 each part, which means there are a total of 43046721 combinations. And also, you have three fairies 
 in the game. You can boost them by collecting gems of wisdom, power and courage. Then you can chose 
 which fairy to use. For instance, the power fairy will boost your attack.
  
  As a Zelda fan, you will find most of the things you know and love. You got the three Bs (boomerang, 
 bombs and bow) , Beedle is reappearing and of course all the other things I've mentioned. This is 
 not a game that is just keeping with the Zelda game rules and therefore become a good game (like 
 MC was for me) , but really a good game both when it comes to gameplay, graphics and story. Also, 
 the abuillity to draw on the map, gives you some unique puzzle, and sometimes it is a great help 
 as well.
  
  I really want to give this game a perfect score, but it isn't quite perfect. You get quite sick 
 of the temple of the ocean king. The temple itself is great. You have limited time and you have 
 to walk around, constantly avoiding the phantoms. Luckily there are some safe areas where the phantoms 
 can't see you. This can be quite challenging, so after a while you will start getting good at the 
 tactics. Although the dungeon is good, you will get sick of it because you have to visit it six 
 times. Also there are some troubles with the gameplay and the sound isn't quite perfect. Therefore 
 no perfect score. But still this is a game for everyone and I don't think anyone would get bored 
 playing it. Personally, I bought it on Friday 19th and was finished on Sunday. I'm, really sorry 
 it is such a short game actually.
  
  No doubt it is the big favourite to win the prize as the DS game of the year. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Cortex619
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 21, 2007 10:45 am PT
Review:  THE best DS game ever made, uses the ds to the full extent, (when you play it you'll see why) . 
 I've completed already so it is kind of short but still the best. Graphhics are amazing for a DS 
 game, very free roaming and just very fun to play, it will keep you occupied so much that you wouldn't 
 want to stop. It still has the zelda humour you see in all the zelda games, and has a very good 
 but weird story line, it's a new boss by the way people as it does continue on from Wind waker, 
 so it's worth playing if you've completed Wind waker. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Dark_Dude701
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 21, 2007 5:37 am PT
Review:  Phantom Hourglass is a fantastic game for the DS but it isn't the best Zelda game. Phantom Hourglass 
 gets rid off the annoying sailing technique in the windwaker and instead we can draw our own routes. 
 At the same time we can shoot the cannon and salvage for treasure chests. There are 4 areas of 
 the sea, which is a shame. The game is also short and too easy. In addition to that, they made 
 the game longer by finding ship parts. Each combination of ship parts gives you ship more health. 
 There are a variety of minigames and enemies to fight. Controlling link can take a while to get 
 used to, but when you do, the game gets a lot easier. You can either tap an enemy or slide you 
 stylus across the screen. There are a few dungeons to do but all the puzzles that are meant to 
 be hard are just too easy. There is also the problem of one of the dungeons which needs to be played 
 over and over again. This game is essential to any Zelda player and has a lot of replay value. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Minishdriveby
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 22, 2007 12:34 pm PT
Review:  Zelda makes its debut on the DS, in the form of a sequel to the Game Cube game The Wind Waker. 
 Phantom Hourglass as now set the bar with a perfect example from Nintendo on how games that incorporate 
 the touch screen should be made. The story takes place a couple months after the Wind Waker; Link 
 is now cruising the seas with Tetra when all of a sudden the mysterious and evil ghost ship shows 
 up. Tetra leaps on the ship and link follows in pursuit but falls overboard. He's then washed up 
 onto a island where he befriends a fairy named Ciela.
  
  The takes advantage of the DS touch screen controls, so you won't be using buttons. This may seem 
 like weird approach to the game, but in reality its fits perfectly. Everything feels very responsive. 
 From running, slashing your sword, using items, and writing on your map, you'll find that it's 
 very smooth and easy to do.
  
  You'll be sailing across vast seas like in WW, but they've improved this in many ways. First off 
 there is no more tinkering with wind; you'll now be using a steam powered boat. First you plot 
 your directions on the sea map and then you're set to go. From there on out you can you the touch 
 screen to control the camera, and shoot cannons at enemies, along with many other things.
  
  Dungeons do seem very linear compared to other Zelda games. They'll usually take only 15 minutes 
 to get through. Like in most Zelda games you go through the dungeons collecting a item specific 
 to that dungeon, and grabbing the boss key to fight the boss. The bosses are probably the most 
 innovative fights on the DS; each uses specific items which call for different touch controls. 
 The fights start of kind of lame at first. Mostly the first dungeon, but the bosses to come after 
 that are truly magnificent. The thing is in Phantom hourglass, there aren't as many times as in 
 the past Zelda games. You'll get 6 main items in the game (hammer, arrows, bombs, etc.) but there 
 are no fairies, bottles, or magic. This kind of gives an awkward feeling to the game because those 
 things are usually some of the trade marks in Zelda. But this feeling is just a minor sentiment, 
 because the game is truly epic. Another minor thing about dungeons is you'll be forced to go through 
 a timed dungeon numerous amounts of times throughout the game, which can be kind of annoying because 
 the basement floors are guarded by invisible enemies called phantoms.
  
  Phantom Hourglass takes the same cell shading approach as WW and it results in some of the best 
 graphics on the DS. Cinematic cut scenes are abundant and they're all in 3d; the sailing parts 
 are also in full 3d, and when you land on an island or are in a dungeon, you'll have a top down 
 view of the area, but the characters and environment is still in 3D. Some cut scenes use a slideshow 
 like presentation of pictures that looks like they're from a children's book. This presentation 
 is actually pretty cool, but there are only about 3 scenes with those in them.
  
  The sound isn't as memorable as past games in the series, but in standards of DS games this as 
 some of the best orchestration. There are some classic tones from previous Zelda games like when 
 you receive an item, or unlock an area. If you've ever played a Zelda game before you'll no that 
 there is no voice acting in it, so those cinematic cut scenes that I was talking about will be 
 very text heavy.
  
  Phantom Hourglass is a long game, lasting at least 15-20 hours, and if you do everything (all the 
 side quests) , then chances are you're time will increase by another 5 hours. Even though it's very 
 long this game is EASY, you may die only once or twice throughout your adventure and most likely 
 it will be in the timed dungeon (temple of the ocean king) . The story lacking a little bit and 
 is pretty predictable, but I think Nintendo toned it down a little for the younger audience. Another 
 addition that may make the game last a while longer is the multiplayer.
  
  The game is an excellent addition to the DS library; sure I nitpicked about some minor problems 
 that I found in the game. Every game as flaws, but the overall experience is highly enjoyable and 
 recommendable to anyone who owns a DS. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Musashimiatsu
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 20, 2007 9:22 pm PT
Review:  I got this game two weeks ago after having played a little of it at my best friend's house. When 
 I first played this, I was pretty amazed at how slick the controls felt. Everything came together 
 nicely and nothing felt clunky at all. The storyline has always interested me. I've just begun 
 on my quest of playing more Zelda games. Just before I had first played this, I finished the Minish 
 Cap. I had been at 65% of the game for about three months when I just finally decided to finish 
 it. It felt great to say the least. About this game though, I really enjoyed it. The art was amazing. 
 I would have to say that I was one of the first to think that when they bought cel-shading to Zelda 
 it was pretty great. It's more 3-D in this game, but it gives off that same feel I got when playing 
 Wind Waker, which by the way I still haven't finished. = [ It was a pretty lengthy game that kept 
 me tied down for the whole day which I liked. It's very involving and user friendly. It was challenging, 
 but not to the extreme where someone would just give up. Just right. Same goes for the puzzles. 
 They were extremely fun to solve. The game sort of reminds me of Okami which is another of my favorite 
 games. I loved everything about it. In my opinion, this Zelda is unique and Miyamoto did a very 
 good job of putting the full capabilities of the DS to the test. I sometimes laughed when I had 
 to yell in the mic so I could move through the story. In fact, I actually left my house, got in 
 my car, and yelled as loud as I could to get that salvage arm for 200 rupees. It was just one of 
 those games that you need to get for DS. I would have to say that this is probably the best DS 
 game out there. Nothing else really uses all of the touch screen controls as effectively as this 
 game. In conclusion, you just need to try it out yourself to know what I'm talking about. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: NBAmaster30
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 20, 2007 6:18 pm PT
Review:  Nintendo's other mascot.. Link is for the hardcore gamers.. who love solving puzzles, fighting 
 creatures, getting new wepons and with a more mature look then most Nintendo games.. He weilds 
 a Sword! But After what most consider the best Video game ever period in Legend of Zelda: Ocarina 
 of TIme.. Link's adventures have always been good even before that.. (excluding the disasterious 
 Phillips CDI games still gives me the chills) With The 2 N64 games taking the route of Mature, 
 detailed and realistic view point.. the Gamecube pulled something that caused some fans to go yeah! 
 and others to go.. wtf, why is Link a stupid little cell shaded character.. The game was still 
 great let me tell you.. Fans rejoiced when the Green Tunic Hero made the Wii sell even better with 
 the all new Zelda: Twilight Princess.. now almost a year later we have another new adventure for 
 link.. but this time for the DS and his Cell shaded look..
  
  The story begins with the retelling of Zelda: Wind Waker... if you have not played it or not heard 
 about it.. then it will spoil it for you. However most people playing the game at least know the 
 jist of the first game.. i hope So after a cool cut out verison of Wind Waker.. you on your ship 
 soaring the seas with Tetra and the band of pirates.. Remember this is a direct sequel to Wind 
 Waker.. So then this myserious boat comes a long and o here is a surpirse Tetra gets captured.... 
 Agian! really nothing new as far as story.. So after trying to save her you fall into the ocean 
 and dift until you wash up on shore.. You then meet a series of characters.. Your main goal is 
 to find the Ghost Ship and get Tetra back
  
  In each Zelda game you start out with nothing.. you have no money, no wepons, and no ship! so you 
 have to get all those to progress in the story.. You meet a Greedy Captian who will Help you on 
 your journey but all he does is make excuesses and does annoying things for the most part.. As 
 you progress into the game you get your sword and upgrades as well as other items.. You can also 
 customize your ship with new parts so it looks better..
  
  What makes this Zelda Game different from most is the ability to take notes on your map.. this 
 is very helpful in many ways and it could not be done anywhere eles.. doing this makes finding 
 tresure membering codes and helping solve puzzles. You can even draw maps if you don't have it 
 already done! The other Big thing about this game is its interally touch control.. Most of the 
 motions work great.. only a few problems.. Your hands.. When your controling your guy moving him 
 from place to place, your hands can be blocking you guy and enimies on screen.. its very hard to 
 avoid this and its only the nature of you and the bulid of the console that makes your big hands 
 get in the way.. Also some of the moves might have been better off using the d pad and buttons.. 
 it would have been nice to have an option like in animal crossing.. where you could choose wether 
 you want to do it with touch, D pad or mix..
  
  There is always Dungens in Zelda games.. this time there is one main Dungens.. the Temple of the 
 Ocean king.. in this temple.. you will be using the Phantom Hourglass... The phantom hourglass 
 makes it possible to travel in the temple.. unless your in a health spot.. But there is a catch! 
 you can only stay in the area untill the Hourglass is full once its been drained time to duck and 
 cover.. so you have to do things fast.. its very different cause you have to keep comming back 
 to this one area.. but there is always new sections that opens up each time you go in. There are 
 other Dungens in the game.. and reg. bosses after each one.. they look great but as in recent Zelda 
 games.. The boss battles are creative and cool but they are on the easy end.
  
  Difficulty has changed in the game.. its a lot less Hardcore cause its on the handheld.. Hanhelds 
 are used in short burst and are genrally easyer then Console games.. although thats not always 
 the case.. in this game its more streamlined for the broader auidence.. not to say its not at all 
 challenging but not at the level of most zelda games.. the puzzles are easier and the enimies are 
 generally weaker..
  
  Wind Waker was a Game you either loved it or hated it.. and in the sub of that.. you either had 
 people who loved the ship sailing or hated.. This time its a whole lot easier and it was not as 
 hard to get lost as it was in Wind Waker.. You simply draw the path you want to go and it takes 
 you their.. while your ship is sailing on its own you can look around the great graphically masterpiece 
 of this game.. for this being a DS game it really does look great.. If you want to get the best 
 out of the DS use Cell Shading it does a great job as far as that goes.. Also while you are sailing 
 enemy ships will attack you just a simple tap of the DS screen launches a Cannon ball at your foe.. 
 You also have a new Mode for multiplayer online fun.. its a little mini game where one player controls 
 Link.. while the others control the Phantoms.. Controling the Phantoms all you do is draw a path 
 where you want to go.. its simple but fun.. its very nice that Nintendo offered some Online multiplayer 
 stuff.. its not Metroid Prime Hunters.. but its the first online Zelda game!
  
  The DS Zelda Game is great.. it does what most hardcore fans would expect on a handheld.. and will 
 open up to a new auidence of gamers.. People who hated Wind Waker might be more going for this 
 look cause its a DS game not a Home Console game.. It was a great idea to use this method becuase 
 if they made the realistic view everything would have been a pixel blur. Overall it has minor flaws 
 and you might not care too much about the story.. but Zelda Fans have to be please with this new 
 Handheld Zelda Game.
  
  Breakdown
  Gameplay: Plays a lot like previous Zelda games.. but in a more simple casual view.. still the 
 same elements just tweaked.. some for better some for worse
  Graphics: The cell shading looks great, and the ship sailing is beautiful. Everything in the game 
 looks good for a DS game.
  Sound: One of the better qualities of the game.. Use headphones to get even better sound.. but 
 it ranks as one of the better sounding games
  Value: 35 bucks.. for a farily long Zelda game and Multiplayer.. i think its a good price.. i also 
 give you 3 save options so others can enjoy it as well! Overall: Not Quite on par with some other 
 Zelda games but its def. not something you want to over look.. Zelda Phantom Hourglass is a must 
 buy for all Ds owners
  
  Final Score
  9.0 
::::::

::::::
UserName: uklegendkiller
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 20, 2007 4:57 pm PT
Review:  Having gifted players with over 20 years of Zelda games, there was little doubt that Nintendos 
 latest Hyrule outing would be another five-star experience. But while Links new quest features 
 all the stunning set-pieces youd expect from the series, by using the DS unique interface to 
 rework the traditional action it isnt so much //what// happens in Phantom Hourglass that makes 
 it a revelation, more //how// you play it.
  
  Gone are the days of using the clunky D-pad to steer the action, and now Link is controlled using 
 the DS stylus and touch-screen, making for a more natural and intuitive approach to the action. 
 Using weapons and items also feels more instinctive; the boomerang follows lines sketched on the 
 screen, maps can be annotated with notes, and 360-degree spin attacks are unleashed by scribbling 
 a circle. The DS microphone is also put to brilliant use, with players puffing on the mic to blow 
 the dust off ancient books.
  
  With two-player dungeon crawls thrown into the mix, Phantom Hourglass is one of the Nintendos 
 greatest achievements and a contender for the best handheld adventure in console history. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: smarties1717
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 20, 2007 4:33 pm PT
Review:  Well I just got the game today and I already love it! I think that the game is so addictive and 
 will keep you playing for a while. The wifi is also a great bonus to the game. I think this is 
 the best Zelda game so far in the series. The only maybe flaw to the game I would say would maybe 
 be that you can only use your stylus and the touch screen, but you get used to it. So an awesome 
 game that deserved all of the hype. I would definantly suggest to anyone to go out and buy this 
 game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dreamdust
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 20, 2007 12:31 pm PT
Review:  The Legend of Zelda: The Phantom Hourglass takes place shortly after the conclusion of the Wind 
 Waker title on the Nintendo Gamecube. The visuals will be instantly familiar. Though it's a direct 
 sequel the plot itself is independent and is not connected directly to that of Wind Waker so expect 
 new surprises and new characters to associate with.
  
  The plot is typical in a sense that you have to save Tetra and eventually the world to some extent. 
 This is fairly obvious from the get-go so don't worry about me spoiling the plot or anything. Though 
 the plot is typical the characters within the game are actually quite interesting and unique. Plenty 
 of interactions with various other characters throughout the game keeps things refreshed and enjoyable. 
 Though the plot doesn't do much in the way of intellectual stimulation the characters you meet 
 along the way will probably fascinate you.
  
  Gameplay-wise the controls are interesting. Technically one can say that this game uses a touch-screen 
 only control system but that is not entirely accurate. You can use certain buttons as short-cuts. 
 However, you are regulated to various touch-screen specific controls for attacking enemies and 
 performing various trademark LOZ moves. This system is superb for throwing bombs because it grants 
 you pinpoint accuracy. It's also great for the boomerang and various other items. The only drawback 
 I had with this system was that you could not lock-on to single enemies and engage in one-on-one 
 type battles. This meant you couldn't strafe around enemies and perform back-attacks as easily 
 as in the console Zelda games. That aside the control scheme was well implemented and does a good 
 job of making the Zelda franchise feel fresh again.
  
  The the game is a fair length of 10-20 hours depending on the number of extras you pursue. Graphics 
 are superb for a DS game and replicates the feel of the Wind Waker in a way that didn't seem possible 
 for a hand-held. Expect to spend a good chunk of time exploring the open sea. In short if you enjoyed 
 the Wind Waker sea-faring adventure from the Gamecube you're probably going to enjoy this game. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: AmazoLK
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 20, 2007 9:08 am PT
Review:  Before Nintendo first revealed anything on Phantom Hourglass, there was no Zelda game for one of 
 Nintendo's greatest systems: the Nintendo DS, and most people thought it was going to be an online 
 Four Swords type game, but everyone was wrong. Nintendo then announced, out of nowhere, The Legend 
 of Zelda: Phantom Hourglass and right away, people knew it was going to be epic. Mixing the old 
 birds-eye look of the 2D Zelda games from the past, and the new 3D cartoon style, people wanted 
 to see more and more of this going-to-be epic game. As you all have noticed though, Nintendo has 
 gone 'casual', and now most of their games are getting stupidly easy (Twilight Princess) and are 
 getting ridiculously simple (Wii Sports) . And everyone knows also knows the Nintendo DS is not 
 a graphical powerhouse, so Nintendo decided to go with the more 'cartoony' look, made famous in 
 the Wind Waker for the Gamecube. With this new casual approach, Nintendo decided to again, make 
 the game simple, and make it easy. Nintendo went for an all touch game, which means everything 
 is controlled with the touch screen, even running and slashing, all. Most people thought this would 
 ruin the game, and old school Zelda fans would be turned off by such a move. But what Nintendo 
 has done is nothing short of outstanding. The touch controls work near-perfect, the graphics are 
 amazing, the adventure is epic.
  
  The game starts off right after the events of the Wind Waker, literally. Link, Tetra, and the pirate 
 crew are all on the ship sailing the seas. After a cute slide show of the events of the Wind Waker, 
 fog randomly rolls around the ship, and the mysterious and well-known but never seen Ghost Ship 
 appears out of nowhere. The courageous girl Tetra is, leaps on the ship to try and see what the 
 hell is going on. But right after she does so, "Ahhh!", she screams aloud. Link jumps to her aid 
 only to fall off the ship and get washed away. Afterwards, Link wakes up on a random island in 
 the middle of nowhere, not knowing where he is. Stuff happens here, stuff happens there, and eventually 
 you meet up with a mysterious man named Lineback who controls the ship you must travel with during 
 the game. You eventually find out that Bellum is the one behind Tetra's capture, and you must save 
 her before it's too late. So it's your job to travel around the seas, like in the Wind Waker, and 
 try to find out more about the Ghost Ship, and more importantly, save Tetra.
  
  The game plays amazing, everything from talking, to running, to using the boomerang is used with 
 the stylus. Like in Animal Crossing Wild Worlds, you touch the part of the screen where you want 
 to run, but unlike Animal Crossing, Link zips, and it feels more smooth and can actually feel better 
 than using the buttons. To use your sword, you slash in the direction you want to slash, simple. 
 And if you want to do a 360 spin attack, you quickly draw around Link and he'll do it. You can 
 also tap the enemy you want to attack, and Link will do a jumping slice if he's too far away, or 
 he'll do a normal slash if you're close enough. Most enemies are pretty easy to defeat, either 
 one or two slashes will usually kill them off. But combat, even though easy, is actually quite 
 satisfying. Nintendo couldn't have done it any better, and it works great. Rolling is the only 
 think that bugs me about the touch only controls. While running, you have to make a small circle 
 and Link will roll. It's not as easy as it sounds though, because sometimes it just doesn't work, 
 no matter what you do. This is especially annoying when you're trying to roll into a tree to get 
 items. Picking up items is also easy, you touch the item you want to pick up, and he'll pick it 
 up. Then, you can press the direction you want to throw it, and he'll throw it there as well.
 
  
  Most of Link's equipment are amazingly used too. To use the boomerang for example, is as easy as 
 drawing the path of where you want it to go, and it will follow exactly where you draw. In the 
 dungeons, which there are plenty of, you will have to use these items like you never have before. 
 I don't want to give away too much spoilers, so I'll try and tone it down a bit, but I could talk 
 all day about how cleverly these items are used. Another example is the grappling rope, which you 
 can hook it on a post sticking into the ground, and pull yourself towards it. You can also put 
 the grappling rope onto two posts at the same time and walk on it, like a tight rope. Plus, you 
 can use the rope as a sling shot to shot yourself from, and even to reflect your arrows. Equipping 
 you items can be a pain though because when you go to the menu, the game is not paused, so enemies 
 can still attack you, and it can be really tiring when you need an item for certain enemy, but 
 they keep attacking you. The menu is activated by the touch screen at the bottom right, and the 
 bottom left. The left menu is where you can save your game, and the right one is where you change 
 your items. It can also get quite irritating when you want to run southwest or southeast, but you 
 push the menu buttons. Also, when you're carrying items and you want to walk a certain direction, 
 he will throw the item in that direction first, then run there.
  
  One main part of the game is the Temple of the Ocean Kings, where you go deeper and deeper into 
 after every completed dungeon in order to find different sea charts. I'll talk about the temple 
 later on. Sea Charts unlock certain areas of the sea. There are 4 main areas of the season, and 
 there are many islands on each part of the area. To travel to the different parts of the sea, you 
 must ride Lineback's ship, which is way easier to use than Link's King of Red Lions in the Wind 
 Waker. What you do is draw a line, and your ship will follow where you drew. And while traveling 
 there, you can turn left and right by pressing that part of the screen, and you can also jump by 
 pressing the jump button at the bottom of the screen. Enemies pop up everywhere while sailing, 
 and you can attack them by shooting them with your cannon. It's as simple as touching the enemy 
 you want to shoot. You also have unlimited ammo, unlike the Wind Waker where you have to use bombs. 
 You can also get jumped by a Female Pirate, and when she ambushes you, you must fight here inside 
 you ship. This event can happen every so often, and can actually be quite fun to try and dodge 
 her.
  
  But the Temple of the Ocean Kings is a cool temple, and a very cool concept, but can get tiresome 
 after a while. What you must do is travel from floor to floor looking for sea charts. After you 
 find the sea chart, you can exit, and travel to that part of the sea. But after to beat the temple, 
 and obtain some Sand of Time, you must go back, and look for another sea chart. Oh, and by the 
 way, you're timed, and you run out when you step out of a safe area. There are also Phantom Guards 
 that patrol the temple, and on the map on the top screen, it shows the way they're looking, kind 
 of like guards in Metal Gear Solid. Phantom Guards cannot be killed though, so you must dodge them 
 in order to proceed through the temple. The Temple of the Ocean Kings is a cool concept like I 
 said before, but each time you come back to the temple, you have to do the same puzzles you did 
 before over and over again. Eventually, you can travel halfway through so you don't have to travel 
 there again, but it's still tiring in the first couple of hours.
  
  The graphics are especially amazing in this game. What the Wind Waker made famous, Phantom Hourglass 
 put on the DS. But, it's no doubt a huge downgrade from the Gamecube, but Phantom Hourglass is 
 definitely the best looking DS game to date, maybe even better than some Nintendo 64 games. Everything 
 is cel-shaded in the game, from the character models to the environments, and it looks great. They're 
 easy on the eyes, and never get bothersome in any way. Not everything looks perfect though, pots, 
 rocks, and other things you can pick up are sprites, and aren't actually in 3D. It's nothing to 
 get angry over, but it sometimes can look odd when Link pick up pot that doesn't look 3D, but everything 
 else does. The enemies are smartly designed too, but there isn't a huge variety. There are the 
 main Octoroks, Chu-Chus, and Miniblins. But there are also new enemies like a huge fish-like creature 
 that has a sword and a shield. The bosses are also quite amazing. Each one is unique to the temple 
 they reside in. One, for example, is a flying Octorok, and it resides in the Sky Temple.
  
  The audio is also quite magnificent in Phantom Hourglass. The soundtrack is one of the best soundtracks 
 in a handheld Zelda game, but it's definitely not perfect. There are great tunes, like the island 
 tune, but the music seems to be constant, and never changes. For example, every dungeon has the 
 same music, and every island has the same music. Usually in Zelda games every dungeon has a different 
 tune, and the different towns have different music. It's only a minor gripe, but it can get irritating. 
 But everything else is pretty much perfect though. Each sound effect sounds exactly like the Wind 
 Waker counterpart. Link's yell, perfect. Everything sounds great.
  
  The main quest will probably take you around 15 to 20 hours, and that's pretty good for a DS game. 
 You can collect different parts for you ship by searching the sea. This is done by finding a treasure 
 chart, and it marks an X on your map. From there, you stop on the X and fish in the sea for treasure. 
 Using the crane in Phantom Hourglass is a lot better than using the Grapping Hook in the Wind Waker. 
 Once you start, you must play a mini game where you slide the crane left and right dodging enemies 
 and things in the way. One you get to the bottom, you pick up the treasure, and you have to bring 
 it back to the top passes all of the things you dodged getting to the bottom. You can also speed 
 the crane up, and slow it down just in case you don't want to damage it. If you do damage the crane, 
 you must to back to the man that made it for you, and buy a new one. Another distraction from the 
 main quest is the battle mini game that you can even play online. Yes, Phantom Hourglass is the 
 first competitive multi-player Zelda game. Not only is it not that fun though, it's not even a 
 minor distraction. The mini game is a Link vs. Phantom capture the flag type of game where players 
 rotate from being Link and being the Phantom. What you must do as Link is dodge the Phantoms and 
 grab as many Triforce pieces as possible and deliver them back to your zone. As a Phantom, you 
 must draw a line on the touch screen to where you want the Phantoms to go. You can keep your overall 
 stats like wins, losses, and disconnections. Overall, Phantom Hourglass is a true Zelda game, easy 
 or not. There are many major things that make it an amazing game like the near-perfect controls, 
 the great boss battles, and the amazing puzzles. There are also many little things that make it 
 great like drawing on maps, which is really useful, and the great usage of equipment. There are 
 also many gripes though, like the rolling, the Temple of the Ocean Kings, and some of the music. 
 But overall, Phantom Hourglass is a great overall package, and is no doubt the best DS game to 
 ever hit the market. You can put it beside Ocarina of Time, A Link to the Past, and the Wind Waker, 
 because Phantom Hourglass is a great game, and shouldn't be passed by anyone. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: newmanator10101
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 19, 2007 8:29 pm PT
Review:  This officially is the best zelda game I have ever played and/or had, ever. This game wasn't that 
 hard and has non-stop fun, and action. I could play this game over and over again forever. I still 
 never get bored of playing this game. I would definitly suggest this game for any person that likes 
 action adventure game over all. ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! THIS 
 GAME IS DA BOMB! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Whellock
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 30, 2007 10:54 am PT
Review:  I have been very busy with the last Zelda title lately which was The Legend of Zelda: Twilight 
 Princess for the Gamecube and the Wii, it's about time to hve the next installment from The Wind 
 Waker. Back in the end in The Legend of Zelda: The Wind Waker, Link and Tetra and the rest of the 
 Pirates of The Great Sea set off from Outset Island.
  
  This is the correct sequel to The Wind Waker and I must admit this is the best looking Zelda game 
 at the moment since Twilight Princess last year. The Legend of Zelda: Phantom Hourglass has plenty 
 of charm to it especially using the touch screen to guide Link with the stylus. The map on the 
 top of the screen really helps you because after reading the text, they give you clues to tell 
 you whats around such as treasures, codes, combinations etc.. After reading that, you can make 
 a note of it on your map and that is so clever. Its like solving a puzzle on the adventure game 
 show Knightmare.
  
  After you defeated the first Boss on the game and retrieving the Phantom Hourglass, sand comes 
 into your Hourglass and you are given the amount of time how long you can stay in the Temple of 
 the Ocean King and it's like your Life Force metre from Knightmare.
  
  The Online gameplay is so addictive and you will have lots of fun with it for ages.
  
  This 
 game is a must-have especially for the fans of the Zelda series.
  
  It is about &pound;29.99 in the UK.
  
  Get it now, it's Brilliant! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: follis12
Rating: 8
Date: Oct 19, 2007 10:00 am PT
Review:  I love Zelda, and I think this game is simply and extension of the Wind Waker - not that there's 
 anything wrong with that!
  
  Maybe it's because I've played Wind Waker so much, but I find this game sorta predicable. All I 
 had to do was look at the map, and I knew what was in store. The good news is that the DS adaptation 
 is extremely well done.
  
  The game play is solid and easy - a little too easy though. This is because, like other zelda titles, 
 it's big on story and not on action. As a result is the dialog getting a little long winded for 
 my taste.
  
  If you haven't played alot of Zelda, this game may seem like the greatest thing, but if you have, 
 it'll seem a little same ol' same ol'. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Chilled_Ice
Rating: 8.5
Date: Oct 18, 2007 6:18 pm PT
Review:  Oh man, two Zelda games in less than a year? Awesome! I loved Twilight Princess and i just had 
 to hope that Nintendo would be able to produce two good Zelda games in less than a year apart. 
 Well, the truth is that they did. Phantom Hourglass takes place after the Wind Waker. Tetra jumps 
 onto a ghost ship for treasure, Link goes after her and ends up on a foreign island. With a navi-like 
 fairy and a pirate named Linebeck, Link heads off to hunt down the ghost ship.
  
  So let's break it down.
  
  ~Gameplay: 8 out of 10~
  
  Control with a stylus? No way. This 
 game is probably gimmicky. Wrong. This game handles nicely. Move, slash, and use items with the 
 stylus. I had problems with rolling but that was the only thing. Monster battles are fun. Dungeons 
 tend to be short but nice. And this game tends to take about 15 hours straight through without 
 a guide. A few things to note is that enemies on the sea tend to zone in on your from afar or when 
 they can't see you. They still head towards you. Also, the Temple of the Ocean King is repetitive 
 but gives you a good challenge. Boating is challenging and salvaging is quite fun.
  
  ~Sound: 7 out of 10~
  
  Usually I praise Nintendo for giving their games good musical scores. 
 But this game didn't do so great. Sure there was some great songs in this game. And it gives this 
 game a Wind Waker flare. But there wasn't much in the way of music. The dungeon tracks were always 
 the same. The islands had the same music but it was also good to hear some zelda classics as well. 
 I had to wonder why some of the fanfares sound simplistic when they didn't sound that way in The 
 Minish Cap. ~Story: 9 out of 10~ I love the story in this game. No Ganon and no Vaati. Something 
 new. And while there isn't anything too dark in this game, it is darker than the Wind Waker. Cutscenes 
 are really funny and the graphics in the cutscenes are really good. Characters are interesting. 
 My favorite was the mail carrier because it wasn't annoying to see him. Oh, and just when you think 
 you are close to the end, the game throws a wrench into that thought.
  
  ~Last Thoughts~
  
  The game is fun. Definately one I won't sell and it is perfect for those long trips. I tended 
 to play it while not traveling because bumps in traveling can throw Link through a tizzy and could 
 possibly kill him. Your hand will also get in the way of gameplay and aiming your sword beams and 
 arrows can take a toll on your stock of ranged attacks. Items are innovative and this game is just 
 plain fun. I am actually proud of the difficulty of the game and have died 6 or 7 times. Bosses 
 are epic and such. Pick this game up if you want hardcore gaming. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lilknight913
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 16, 2007 9:36 pm PT
Review:  This game is quite interesting and is a little confusing at first but easy to understand once you 
 kept playing. The only thing that was frustrating was trying to roll. The reason is because of 
 the menu screen on the bottom left and right corners. Another fun thing about this game is the 
 riddles and mazes it has in the game. With this it helps test your intelligent and see if your 
 good enough to solve the question. If one was to just find the answer online, then that wont' be 
 fun at all, since i'll say about 40% of the game consists of maze and riddle in the story line. 
 Other then that, i find that the traveling by ship sometimes feel tedious. The reason is because 
 i guess i'm not a patient person, but you can gain money while traveling to another area. (Shooting 
 monsters for rupees or salvaging them) . The final boss of the game seemed to easy because it only 
 required link to hit him in the back about 3 times. It was hard at first and drawing the 8 symbol 
 was annoying, but after figuring out how to draw the 8 symbol properly and the movement of the 
 boss, the boss was a piece of cake. I end up fighting it again after i beat the game about 5 times, 
 and it took only about less then 8 minutes.
  
  Overall i think this game is awesome, but too short. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Pierst179
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 10, 2007 12:33 pm PT
Review:  When first announced, The Legend of Zelda: The Wind Waker was expected to be the big sequel for 
 Ocarina of Time that most gamers had been waiting for since 1998, but disappointment struck almost 
 everybody who watched the first minutes of footage from this game, instead of the mature Link presented 
 some years ago we had the cell-shaded Link and Shigeru Miyamoto quickly went from a genius to a 
 stupid guy.
  
  But time would prove us all wrong and Wind Waker turned out to be an astonishing game, it is nearly 
 impossible to find a game with such a unique and beautiful style, the huge overworld was hiding 
 tons of sidequests, and the main quest, despite not being too long was still really fun. Nintendo 
 had shown once again that they always know what they do, it doesn't matter how wrong it seems to 
 be.
  
  The success was so big that many fans of the franchise started to claim for a sequel. But not a 
 sequel that would finally present the adult Link, what people really wanted was the cartoon graphics 
 once again, the sea, the pirates and all that overwhelming feeling contained on the Wind Waker. 
 Fortunately Nintendo heard everybody's pleas.
  
  The Legend of Zelda: Phantom Hourglass was developed to be this sequel. The game starts exactly 
 after the ending of the Wind Waker, and it is one of the most blatant sequels of the whole series 
 since the main characters have all been maintained, which is awesome since the Wind Waker characters 
 are really nice, and so Link is sailing with his pirate friends.
  
  Tetra and her crew are looking for the fabled Ghost Ship, an evil vessel that according to the 
 local tale is kidnapping sailors and villagers that live in that region of the Great Sea. Tetra 
 thinks that this story is a big lie and that the Ghost Ship's crew is actually a bunch of pirates 
 trying to threat their domain over the sea, so in order to stop their plans they need to find the 
 ship.
  
  Not surprisingly they succeed on their mission and a few minutes after the game starts the Ghost 
 Ship is spotted. Tetra quickly jumps of her ship and swims toward the haunted boat that suddenly 
 vanishes, Link tries to follow but he doesn't make it and he ends up on the shore of some mysterious 
 island, then your adventure finally kicks in and you get to control Link for the first time.
  
  Using the touch screen instead of the D-pad to move him soon proves to be not such a smart 
 move. The overall result is pleasant, but there are some minor shortcomings when it comes to the 
 gameplay.
  
  For example, if you are right-handed then every single time you need to head to left your hand 
 will stand right in between you and the screen therefore completely blocking your vision of what's 
 going on, and if you are left-handed going to the right will be a problem. And this can be a tad 
 annoying, especially if you are running away from some enemies.
  
  Generally the touch screen is very responsive to most commands, but sometimes when trying to move 
 while holding an object Link may decide to drop it on the ground when you touch the screen intending 
 to make him walk. Rolling can also be a problem, to activate this action you need to draw a circle 
 at the edge of the screen but sometimes the game just doesn't get it, but since rolling is not 
 so important it won't bother you so much.
  
  It is also very important to say that this is the first 3-D Zelda that doesn't make any use of 
 the famous lock system that has been used since Ocarina of Time. This makes the battles harder, 
 especially when you encounter armored knights, because you will spend most of the time just running 
 away from them waiting for a chance to use your sword. Fortunately there aren't many of those enemies 
 during the game.
  
  The classic items of the Zelda franchise are all back. But this time around they have some new 
 twists, because in order to use them you will have to perform some actions with the stylus on the 
 touch-screen. The items itself are the same, but the way you use them makes the whole game feel 
 more fresh.
  
  In a nutshell, the gameplay is good but I definitely think Nintendo should have given us the option 
 to control Link with the D-pad if we felt like it, because the items work very well with the touch 
 screen while the movement is not so sharp.
  
  Sailing from one island to the other is not as boring as it used to be. This time the wind isn't 
 so important because you will be controlling a motorized boat, I love technology don't you? So 
 if you want to travel you just need to draw a path on the map using the stylus, and the boat will 
 follow the exact same path, just don't leave your DS while doing that because the sea is filled 
 with enemies that can sink your boat.
  
  Speaking of which, the boat can now be customized, you will collect some new parts as you advance 
 on the game and you can head back to a shop at one island where they will add those parts to your 
 ship for a steep price.
  
  The soundtrack is good, you obviously can't compare it to the console games, but it does justice 
 to the franchise, as usual there are some remixed tunes, most of them based on Wind Waker's songs. 
 The sound effects are also very well done.
  
  The graphics are outstanding. I thought it would be nearly impossible to translate Wind Waker's 
 amazing world and feeling to a handheld, but I was wrong. Link and all other characters remain 
 very expressive and funny. All the islands have their own unique characteristics, the textures 
 are good and there are some nice effects.
  
  Now off to the most important part of any Zelda game, the dungeons. Some may be disappointed and 
 some may be happy with the fact that there is no backtracking at all involved on the process of 
 finishing the dungeons. You will solve a puzzle, open a door and head to the next room where you 
 will basically do the same thing until you get to the boss key that's usually very close to boss 
 room.
  
  While the dungeons are extremely linear the puzzles within them are creative. I have to say that 
 out of my favorite puzzles of the franchise quite a bundle of them belong to this game. The use 
 of the stylus adds a lot to the solving of the puzzles, sadly they are not hard enough, and if 
 you enjoy getting stuck on a temple for a while trying to figure out what to do next you can just 
 forget it because it won't happen on this game. Another quality of this game is the bosses. Believe 
 me, they are all absolutely amazing. They make full use of all DS capabilities and on some battles 
 the developers have used the hardware power to the absolute edge. You will be surprised when you 
 discover a way to defeat them, they are all very inventive. Once again the main problem is the 
 level of challenge.
  
  Finally, the replay value. Zelda games have always been famous by its dozen of sidequests and Phantom 
 Hourglass is not different. There aren't nearly as many here as in the Wind Waker for example, 
 but you will have some fun exploring the Great Sea, discovering uncharted islands and strange creatures.
 
  
  Phantom Hourglass is a Zelda game, what else can be said. With awesome puzzles, bosses and dungeons 
 it stands out from most other DS titles therefore this game is a definite must-have. While a little 
 bit too easy, it is still a lot of fun, the whole adventure can be finished in around 20 hours, 
 which is quite a good length for a handheld adventure.
  
  Most of its characteristics set the bar for every DS title that's still to be released.
  
  
 Actual Score: 8.9 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GamerForca
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 15, 2007 9:52 pm PT
Review:  First of all, I'm a longtime Zelda fan (beaten every single one) , and I was glad to get my hands 
 on a copy of this gem. It might have its minor issues, but not even the biggest of fanboys will 
 be disappointed. The gameplay of PH strays from the formula used in most games (err... nearly all 
 games) . You move with the touchscreen, and the only time you ever touch a button in-game is when 
 you want to pull up a map or pause the game, which means you can go through the whole game without 
 ever touching a button (because you can also pull up a map on the touch screen) . Talk to people 
 and pick up objects by simply touching them. This might seriusly seem like it would completely 
 destroy the game, because it could, but Nintendo pulled it off perfectly, and not only does it 
 feel just fine, but it adds to the game enormously as well. The sailing portions are much different 
 and improved from Wind Waker; now all you have to do is plot where to go and do the fighting on 
 the way. It might take some adventure out of it, but it's much less of a pain. The treasure parts 
 are fun too (and a major help) , and once you get used to it, it is very easy. If you're playing 
 with a DS Phat, it might give you a little discomfort, but it's no big problem. Also, sometimes 
 it doesn't seem to detect your exact movements when you're doing something quickly every time, 
 but once again it's no big problem. You'll notice that when running Link left (or right if you're 
 left-handed) , that your hand will cover Link and make it difficult to see. Don't worry though, 
 you'll get used to it early on and it won't be anything to worry about. The top screen is used 
 only occasionally, but put to great use. Overall, the controls are wonderful, even with minor setbacks. 
 You know it's good when the biggest problem is the annoying fairy!
  
  The puzzles are just brilliant. They take full use of the DS, and in ways you wouldn't have guess 
 before playing the game. Not only does it use the touch screen perfectly for puzzles with the boomerang 
 and all, but it also uses the DS's mic. There are times when you need to blow in it or say something 
 to get the attention of someone. You also need to fold the DS in half for use with your map at 
 times, which is very interesting. Perhaps the smartest thing Nintendo did with the DS's interface 
 is NOT using the same thing over and over again on the DS. You only have to use the mic occasionally, 
 so it doesn't become gimmicky or boring. That's a huge plus when many DS games feel very gimmicky 
 after a while. The boss fights are equally creative and hold true to what you would expect from 
 a Zelda game. The top screen is used to take full advantage of the DS's capabilities for the battles. 
 I had a few control problems with some of them, but they are indeed stunning. The diversity from 
 boss to boss is incredible, as each one has completely different weaknesses, strengths, attacks, 
 looks, and a completely different style while you're fighting them (you'll know what I mean when 
 you play) . The dungeon in which you use the Phantom Hourglass can be a drag, but once you get used 
 to it, you'll find a bit of challenge along with some great moments. Neither the puzzles nor the 
 bossfights are frustratingly difficult, but they're shockingly innovative.
  
  The story is something magical in itself, just like anyone should expect from a Zelda game. It's 
 also different from past games in the sense that it's more dialogue driven and there are always 
 things springing up to do, especially when you're sailing. I'm not the kind of person to say this, 
 but you'd almost want to pick up this game and just hug it at times (wow, I said it) . This is also 
 the funniest Zelda, as you will see as you play, and I got quite a few laughs from some of the 
 main characters. The cutscenes are well-written and the cast of characters is neat, and it's great 
 to see a different antagonist instead of Ganon. The adventure might feel cut up at times (mostly 
 with the sailing, which is still improved) , but the many areas are great, and the interactions 
 with different societies is great once again. The story might be a bit simple, but it's great just 
 like all Zeldas.
  
  PH takes the DS's power to a new lever in the graphics department. While it's nowhere near the 
 beauty of WW on GC, the DS does the cell-shaded graphics quite well. The cutscenes are nice and 
 the land is enormous, both unlike most DS games. The variety of environment in each island is great, 
 like all Zeldas, and it adds to the adventure in many good ways. It might be quite blocky at times, 
 but it looks much better than any other DS game, and looks like a good middle-strength N64 game 
 (which is saying a lot) . There really aren't any glitches that I'm aware of, so it's obviously 
 well polished off. The only noticeable problem is the sometimes dipping framerate which can slow 
 down and possibly mess you up at times. It's really no big deal at all though.
  
  The music is extremely nostalgic. That's about all that needs to be said. PH lacks amazing original 
 Zelda music and some other great tunes like the theme song, but still manages to be enjoyable. 
 The sound effects are very same-old (good though) and if you're a huge Zelda fan, you'll probably 
 get the shivers listening to the tune of a secret being discovered and the music after beating 
 a boss.
  
  PH also includes a multiplayer mode, which isn't quite the same as the Four Swords games. It's 
 good, but doesn't add much to the game. There are about 8 different courses to choose from, each 
 well-made. The idea of the game is simple: As Link, get force gems; as the Phantoms, kill Link. 
 There are also items to get (and you can break your opponent's items) , and there is some great 
 strategy involved. Playing with friends is fun, as they don't need a copy of PH to play. It doesn't 
 keep up with your record against friends, but will still be fun whether you're next to each other, 
 or playing over Nintendo Wi-Fi. The Wi-Fi play is fun, and you'll be set up to go against someone 
 quickly. There are friend codes for friends, and those can be exchanged automatically when you 
 get near a friend that has PH. I've easily won in random matches (which aren't frustrating like 
 many DS games) . You get a win-loss record and Big Plays , which are basically accomplishments. 
 It would be much better if Nintendo made it so you win if you're winning when your opponent disconnects 
 like a wuss, but the game sadly doesn't count if they do. Too many disconnections really hurts 
 the game. It's fun regardless, and a good addition to the franchise.
  
  PH is another fantastic addition to the Zelda franchise, and definitely worth the purchase to anyone. 
 The revolutionary controls show what the DS is capable of and may brighten the system's already 
 amazing future. I can't urge anyone enough to get this gem. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Raikoh_
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 15, 2007 7:28 pm PT
Review:  So... Link is back in an all new adventure for the DS, The Legend of Zelda: The Phantom Hourglass. 
 It's a continuation to the Wind Waker series, and it's actually quite good. The game utilizes the 
 DS to it's full capabilities from making notes on your map with the touch screen to talking and 
 blowing into your Mic, but this is also where the game has it's faults. Pretty much everything 
 you do requires the use of the touch screen. Walking, swinging your sword, and using your items 
 all use the touch screen. I do not like this idea. Why? There are times where I often found myself 
 swinging my sword in the wrong direction (I cannot begin to tell you how annoying it can be when 
 you get to a certain boss fight) or accidentally making Link roll and throw himself off a cliff. 
 To be honest, I would much rather be using the D-pad to move around and using the A button to perform 
 certain actions. I would not mind using the touch screen for everything else.
  
  I haven't tried the online portion of the game but I'm not a fan of the DS' multiplayer, so it's 
 best we don't even go there.
  
  Sailing your ship around can be really fun especially when you get the cannon and the salvage arm. 
 There's also a neat little mini game when you get the salvage arm that requires a pretty steady 
 hand and I LOVE the battling system when you're sailing around. A little tap on the screen and 
 boom goes the cannon! I love it when I run into some pirates and there are multiple enemies chasing 
 me firing at my ship. You can also customize your ship and there's a lot of different things to 
 choose from. Can't find a certain part for your ship and you have stuff to give away? Hop on Wi-Fi 
 and trade with your friends!
  
  Some of the puzzles make things a little difficult but it adds a lot of enjoyment and a sense of 
 pride when you figure them out. The graphics are very pretty (especially when you're out on the 
 open seas) just like in Wind Waker. The sound is great also.
  
  The game is great. It's an excellent addition to the series and everyone should play it, Zelda 
 fan or not. The controls are the only thing that keep me from enjoying it to it's fullest. Either 
 way, every DS owner should make an attempt to add this to their gaming library. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cyberskelet0n
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 15, 2007 6:03 pm PT
Review:  As should most gamers know, the Legend of Zelda series has been with us from the very beginning. 
 It has grown great over the years, keeping up with the latest graphics and best technology in use. 
 We come back to the series with the first Zelda game in 2007, the Phantom Hourglass.
  
  The game picks up right after where The Wind Waker left off (being the 2nd game in the series and 
 the third to use the cel-shading art style) . Tetra, having gone back to her old ways after finding 
 out she was Princess Zelda, went along with Link to find the fabled Ghost Ship and its treasure. 
 Ofcourse, as fate would have it for our short, cel-shaded hero, Tetra is kidnapped and taken away 
 by the Ghost Ship. Link is left unconsiouss, washed up on a beach of a small island. He is woken 
 up by a fairy named Ciela, who then shows him to Oshus, the wiseman of the town.
  
  Link later finds the Phantom Hourglass, a key to the Temple of the Ocean King. Because the temple 
 drains the life from any who enter, the sands in the hourglass allow a time-limited immunity to 
 this curse. As it turns out, the Temple of the Ocean King holds the clues needed to locate the 
 Ghost Ship and save Tetra.
  
  The graphics are just as good as they were the first time around in The Wind Waker. Link (along 
 with most other characters) still has those big, beady eyes, and is very short and unproportionally 
 cute. This is very befitting for the DS, as the art style on Twilight Princess might not work out 
 so good on the DS.
  
  The sound only adds to that Aww, man, these guys are SO DOANG AWESOME all short and beady-eyed 
 like that!! feeling you get when playing the game. The music has not changed much over the series, 
 but is still melodic enough to make a Chu Chu dance. Your ears will be ringing later that day, 
 not with that annoying BEEP sound, but with the beautiful sounds music of this game.
  
  The controls aren't all what they seem at first. It gets a little buggy, and many people still 
 have trouble rolling (I admit, I'm still mastering it) . But once you get to around the Temple of 
 Courage or so, you've picked up the style (or stylus! He, he!) of the controls and are blazing 
 straight through the game with flying colors. They are very innovative, taking advantage of using 
 the map for notes and tracing a path for the boomerang, along with many other usefull things.
 
  
  The gameplay is simple. You get some clues, do routine visits to the Temple of the Ocean King, 
 go to a dungeon, get lots of money, and buy some good equipment for the next dungeon. Single player 
 is amazing as anything. But then, as good as it gets, your ship is FULLY CUSTOMIZEABLE. You can 
 gain parts for your ship along your journey, piecing them together to make sets. You can also go 
 on Wi-Fi mode and trade ship parts for treasure with other players! The possibilities for this 
 are endless.
  
  Phantom Hourglass is an amazing game overall. It is NEARLY flawless (multiplayer could use some 
 variety) , yet is a great game nontheless. Going through the game again is quite the idea- you may 
 find something you missed, as well as the high replay value. Our little green-clad hero has returned 
 once again with yet another score.
  
  cyberskelet0n 
::::::

::::::
UserName: flimsycat
Rating: 8.5
Date: Oct 15, 2007 3:10 pm PT
Review:  When I got this game from a friend I didn't expect much. It's for the Nintendo DS after all so... 
 what can you really hope for? So I went home and played it. In the first ten minutes I had more 
 fun that I have ever had with any other DS game and the Wind Waker! The opening is pretty long 
 but a cool summery. Music / Sound: The sounds were great but I must say they could have been improved. 
 The music was just remixes from other Zelda games and the whole game seemed like the Link to the 
 Past game. If you expected annoying songs to hum, youre out of luck. The sounds were pretty annoying 
 though. Not that best quality but hey, what did you really expect out of a DS game?
  
  Graphics / Deign and look: I'm a big fan of Maya 3D software. It was used in Final Fantasy, Mario, 
 and The Wind Waker. It was used in this game too apparently being a sequel to The Wind Waker. I 
 was highly disappointed in the graphics in this game. Link looked a little chubby and so did everyone 
 else. The fairies looked halfway decent. I expected more after seeing New Super Mario Bros.
  
  Gameplay: The overall game play was ok. It could have been way improved from what it turned 
 out to be but I enjoyed swinging my hand around the DS screen. It got tiring after a while though. 
 All you have to do to fight enemies is tap them. Not the best gameplay but much better than other 
 handheld Zelda games. Most of the bosses were easy too.
  
  Cut Scenes / Other / Plot: Princess Zelda had maybe two minutes of on screen time. As I stated 
 before, I loved the introduction. It was cute and... was just a basic outline of everything that 
 happened in the other game and even before that. The other cutsceens didn't really matter. The 
 plot seemed just thrown in for the heck of it. Zelda didn't have a big role at all. The hourglass 
 didn't have a big role as well. Maybe they should do more folk tales as Zelda games? It was certainly 
 better than having almost no plot at all.
  
  Overall it was an ok game. Even though it wasn't the best game, it was still ok. A must buy for 
 every Zelda fan! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: solsticeblue
Rating: 8.5
Date: Oct 28, 2007 12:28 pm PT
Review:  Let's me make one thing clear:
  
  Phantom Hourglass is an excellent Zelda experience on the DS.
  
  That being said, the greatest 
 fault of the game itself is also exactly that. It IS a Zelda game.
  
  As a direct sequel to Windwaker, Phantom Hourglass picks up directly where Windwaker left off. 
 It shares much of the traits of the former: quirky characters, charming (albeit simple) story, 
 cel-shaded presentation, island-hopping, and, of course, the timeless Zelda formula.
  
  Sometimes, I still find it hard to grasp that this is a fully 3D game, and everything is done (mostly) 
 through the touchscreen. I still find myself a bit blown away. This is a fine example of how and 
 why Nintendo is so successful at first-party games. They produce the hardware, and they are also 
 the ones who maximize the hardware's potential. Phantom Hourglass's 3D graphics are very stylized, 
 that it's hard to see the 3D limitations of the DS. The touch controls are definitely a refreshing 
 take on the time-tested Zelda formula, while injecting a few, new, and neat tricks.
  
  The problem with Phantom Hourglass, then, is that it really doesn't do anything with the Zelda 
 formula. What we have here, is a similar formula to what we had 20 years ago. The game still includes 
 elemental dungeons (i. e. a wind temple, a fire temple, and a water/ice temple) , and the three essential 
 tools are still the ones you will use the most and get relatively early (the boomerang, the bomb, 
 and the bow) . You still travel through these dungeons in a sequence, while acquiring and learning 
 new tools and tricks through them. At the end of the dungeons, you fight a boss. The bosses always 
 require the new tool or trick you just got from the dungeon to beat them, and you are given generous 
 clues and wide windows of opportunity to attack the boss to the point that it can be argued that 
 the game is holding your hand through the fight. You can still find a challenge and die a few times 
 from trying to figure out how to attack them. But once you have their pattern, it's a matter of 
 dodging and execution. I'm not expecting Ninja Gaiden-like bosses from Zelda, but the bosses are 
 definitely a cinch. Whether they are for accessibility or by Zelda tradition, none of them really 
 seem epic, grand, or outright daunting. There are still some fetch quests, and optional minigames 
 that are Zelda staples by now.
  
  Don't get me wrong. It all boils down to expectations, really. People who love a straightforward 
 Zelda game will absolutely love this game, and have their Zelda itch scratched. People who are 
 new to Zelda games will find this a fantastic introduction to the series. People who are tired 
 of the formula or never got into Zelda probably won't be won over by Phantom Hourglass.
  
  Touchscreen controls definitely give a different handle on how you play Link. At first, it takes 
 a bit of getting acquainted. After a while, the controls start to make sense, especially at how 
 it makes using bombs more efficient. It also makes sailing a lot more painless, as you can just 
 plot your path through the seas. The controls have definitely been streamlined for ease of use 
 and accessibility. Unfortunately, the control scheme is not perfect either. Scribbling on the map 
 doesn't reflect your writing with 100% exact precision, and it has the tendency to wriggle the 
 lines or draw it a little off. But, for better or worse, the biggest issue that the touchscreen 
 controls have, is that it might not exactly be the revolution in the Zelda experience that people 
 might have been expecting. Truly, the real revolution of Phantom Hourglass comes in HOW you play 
 a Zelda game.
  
  In the end, your enjoyment of the game comes down to how much you enjoy the Zelda formula. The 
 Legend of Zelda: The Phantom Hourglass is an excellent example of Nintendo's first party prowess 
 and how it maximizes hardware to make you rethink how you play a game. It is also an example of 
 how Nintendo likes to stick to the same formula. It's a very good game, though you won't likely 
 be blown away, but it's still an adventure that's worth the wind in its sails. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: L8erSquare
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 14, 2007 11:52 pm PT
Review:  The Legend of Zelda: Phantom Hourglass is an amazing game for the Nintendo DS. The story continues 
 from a previous Zelda game from the Nintendo Gamecube, however the player will not be lost with 
 the story if he/she hasnt played the previous game. The graphics of this game push the capabilities 
 of the DS and are visually appealing. The puzzles and levels are well thought out and provide a 
 good mind challenging experience, but not to challenging that it makes the player give up or throw 
 their DS across the room. But the thing that makes this game stand out from the crowd is its control 
 system. All the walking, running, attacking, etc Everything is done using the DS stylist making 
 this games gameplay very immersive. This game is a MUST have for every DS game collection, and 
 Id feel sorry for those of you who pass up this opportunity to see electronic entertainment at 
 its finest. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SaxxyGamer18
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 3, 2008 12:25 am PT
Review:  The Good: Outstanding visual style and execution; touch controls are an absolute dream; scope of 
 the adventure is thrilling; sailing is incredibly streamlined compared to Wind Waker's slower pace; 
 genius dungeon design (as usual) ; great new story, characters, and writing; possibly the DS's best 
 sound design.
  
  The Bad: A few very small pacing issues, especially concerning the Temple of the Ocean King; lack 
 of control options is disappointing; multiplayer is mostly uninteresting.
  
  Nintendo's handheld systems have always been the most successful, often being the only ones that 
 survived. The Game Boy was host to many well-designed and ingenious games that mimicked their console 
 brethren and often created adventures that were just as solid. In recent years, the Game Boy Advance 
 was the source for great 2D gaming while the rest of the gaming world was off exploring 3D worlds. 
 And while there have been many fantastic games for portable systems all through the history of 
 the systems, there is one crowning achievement that overshadows them all. That game, of course, 
 is The Legend of Zelda: Phantom Hourglass.
  
  Link's past handheld adventures have been extremely well-made 2D adventures, and they have all 
 been epic and masterful. The best games in the series, however, are undoubtedly in the 3D realm, 
 and there was nothing the Game Boys in the past could do about that. With the strength of the DS, 
 however, Zelda was finally able to take the portable leap into the third dimension, even though 
 it retains many of the exploration elements and perspective of the 2D games. With the unique blend 
 of birds'-eye gameplay, great 3D cutscenes, and excellent sailing portions, Phantom Hourglass is 
 an incredible piece of work.
  
  In the vein of Majora's Mask, Phantom Hourglass is a direct sequel to The Wind Waker. As such, 
 you can expect a lot of sailing and awesome cel-shading effects. The sailing in Phantom Hourglass 
 is great. Instead of controlling it all directly like WW, you simply plot a course to your destination 
 and shoot at anything that gets in your way. Eventually, you get to warp to specific spots in the 
 ocean and salvage treasure. Even though it's not nearly as massive as Wind Waker's open seas, there 
 is an awful lot of water to explore. It doesn't drag like Wind Waker did, and so it works a lot 
 better.
  
  Though there were doubts about the effectiveness of the touch screen controls, they work like a 
 dream. They are incredibly responsive and intuitive. The only thing that's hard to do is roll, 
 but that's not a necessary move in most cases. Sword fighting, boomerangs, bombs, arrows, grappling 
 hooks... it's all done with the touch screen, and it is done beautifully. Of course, it would have 
 been nice to have more control options for those who were opposed to the exclusivity, but they 
 work so well that even non-believers will be stunned.
  
  There is just too much that can be said of what a great game Phantom Hourglass really is. It's 
 lengthy, there's tough puzzles, the dungeons are fairly plentiful and a blast, the writing is superb, 
 the soundtrack and visuals are incredible... any small gripes get swallowed up in how utterly awesome 
 this game is. For more technical details about the game, read GameSpot's full review. But really, 
 get out and buy this game if you haven't already. It's one of the best games in the series. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Shillster89
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 15, 2007 7:32 pm PT
Review:  Phantom Hourglass is a great sequel to WindWaker and definitly does the LoZ series justice. The 
 graphics are some of the best on the DS, and the sound/music is also great. This game hooks you 
 from the first moment you play it, and throughout the adventure, it offers up a lot of fun. The 
 online multiplayer is fun, but I can see that it may not have a lot of lasting power, and you could 
 easily get bored of the levels, but the single player more than makes up for that. With lots of 
 extra things to do, such as collecting boat parts, and collecting heart containers, this game will 
 have you playing for a long time. The only downsides to the game are that it is probably easier 
 than a lot of the other Zelda games, and although the single player is great, it isn't as long 
 as it should be, and only offers 5 dungeons. Ocerall, this game is one that every DS owner must 
 have. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pocket-dragon
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 14, 2007 11:28 am PT
Review:  The Legend of Zelda: The Phantom Hourglass is the very first Zelda game to hit the DS. The thing 
 that gets me the most about this game is the control scheme. You use the stylus for absolutely 
 everything in the game. Movement, sword play, you name it! As well as introducing new characters 
 to the game, it also introduces a completely new way to explore: a boat. And of course, your greedy 
 travel companion, Linebeck. The game begins with a cut-scene of you on a boat with a mysterious 
 she-pirate name Tetra. You are cruising over the calm water when suddenly a very soupy fog rolls 
 in. Seconds later the navigator above you screams SHIP SIGHTED! SHIP SIGHTED! and a very menacing 
 looking ship appears on the horizon, which is the famed ghost ship . Your pirate friend says she 
 wants to explore the ship. She hops over the railing of your ship and onto the ghost ship. You 
 wait a few seconds, feeling confused, when suddenly you hear Tetra scream. You make to jump onto 
 the boat to see what has happened, but you fall overboard. Hours later you are found on a mysterious 
 island beach by a faerie, and that is where your journey begins. Overall, The Phantom Hourglass 
 is one of the best games on the DS. Its a fairly long game, so it should last you awhile. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gwarlito
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 14, 2007 9:53 am PT
Review:  My the Legend of Zelda  Phantom Hourglass mini review
  
  For fans of Windwalker, this DS installment of Zelda is probably going to suit your needs. Visually 
 it is directly styled after the Gamecube predecessor. The graphics are one of the best for any 
 DS game. There are times when this game looks beautiful (cutscenes are gorgeous, and the normal 
 top down view is the best Ive ever seen in a handheld Zelda game. which it should be using the 
 DSs stronger hardware) . But there are some times where the graphics look very fugly.
  
  Im not going to dive into the story for you. You all should know the basic premise to any Zelda 
 game. To break it down so that a caveman man could understand, Link find Zelda (Tetra) and save 
 the world. Phantom Hourglass was designed around the DS hardware. Using the stylus or another 
 foreign object with the touch pad to move Link around works near flawlessly. Attacking is somewhat 
 easy to use, and using specific weapons collected is also pretty easy to do. Like Windwalker, a 
 lot of time is out on a ship at sea traveling from island to island. Using the touch pad to navigate 
 from place to place is super easy and is a definite plus to this game, much easier than sailing 
 in Windwalker.
  
  Pardon the pun, but the double edged sword to this game has to be using the stylus to take notes 
 on maps, etc. Yes it is one of the best features to the game, and it helps you out dramatically 
 when in a temple to help solve riddles and puzzles. I feel that it makes the game a little too 
 easy, and takes a lot of the challenge away from a player. Would it be too hard without writing 
 down the notes? I dont know, but for a Zelda game, it seemed that this was one, if not the easiest 
 game to complete. I dont feel that this aspect takes away from the game that much however. For 
 a game that was so easy for me at least to complete, I thought it was one of the most fun and engaging 
 Zelda titles to play to date. I had so much fun that I couldnt put the game down. It was thrilling 
 to me, and I just had to keep playing and playing. There was only one part of the game that it 
 felt like a drag playing at times. The temple of the Ocean King is a focal point in the game, 
 and a place where Link has to constantly return to. You have to redo some of the same levels over 
 and over, and it can be somewhat of a drag. But this is where the Phantom Hourglass is introduced 
 and is utilized. It is a time keeper hourglass (like all hourglasses areI know, Duh!) and it is 
 used to complete levels in a certain amount of time spent in the temple. Once the time runs out, 
 so does Links time and then there is his near certain death.
  
  That being said, the levels or dungeons or temples throughout the game are pretty straight forward, 
 and simple compared to many other Zelda titles. As mentioned before, I think that the note taking 
 ability downgrades the level of difficulty. Which brings me to the boss fights. They were easily 
 engaging and fun, but a lot of the bosses were simple. After playing countless Zelda titles, knowing 
 that you normally have to beat the boss in that dungeon/temple using the new item collected, 
 the level of difficulty is pretty easy expecting this.
  
  Multiplayer and online play is fun for how simple (yet it can be mastered) it really is. I would 
 say that it is an added bonus, but the main adventure is what the game is all about. I dont replay 
 a lot of games and I sell most games after completion, so Im saying that the multiplayer and online 
 mode isnt keeping me from selling this game. However if you are a collector or any DS owner, this 
 game should be in your library. At least rent it for a week or two until you beat it. It is a great 
 game.
  
  Overall, the game is thrilling and breathtaking. It is a perfect fit for the DS, and easily one 
 of the systems best games to date and eventually all time. Nintendo made a high quality game that 
 shows off the DS hardware. As stated earlier, the game is simple for a Zelda game, but the overall 
 experience is engaging and a lot of fun.
  
  gwarlito 
::::::

::::::
UserName: twilight7896
Rating: 8.5
Date: Dec 20, 2007 11:23 am PT
Review:  it dosent stand up to Ocarina Of Time or Twilight Princesss, but its a good game all in its own. 
 its a great game and the controls are inovative and creative, but it gets kinda frustrating when 
 your in the fire temple and you have to use the boomerang really fast, because it is hard to make 
 a path with out getting hit and starting over. i love the way you can customize the ship and the 
 sailing isnt wasting hours of good play time like wind waker. the graphics, for a ds game, are 
 some of the best ive ever seen. the one thing that makes it suck is THE TEMPLE OF THE OCEAN KING, 
 ahhhhh!!!!! too many floors, so little to do, its just endless floor after floor of phantoms and 
 puzzles, just to get charts, and most of the puzzles are the same, hit a switch with your boomerang, 
 bust a red pot, hide from a phantom. this game definantly rivals wind waker, i not surpasses it, 
 but nintendo has a long way to go to make a game to stand op to TP or OOT 
::::::

::::::
UserName: doctores143
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 14, 2007 8:09 am PT
Review:  So this game folows up wind waker which you probably know and the same old crew from the last one 
 with all the wierd bucktooth kids are sailing looking for a ghost ship and guess what!... they find 
 it and tetra (zelda) jumps aboard and get captured. Link tries to save here but instead clumsily 
 falls off their ship lol. He later wakes up on a island and a farie greets him. Then the interactiveness 
 starts...
  
  here are the basics:
  
  graphics:8.5 out of 10. Expected a little more because it extremely pixely at times (look at the 
 image on the gamespot review and you will see what i mean)
  
  gameplay:9 out of 10: Probably one of my favorite ds games but who knows how replayable it is because 
 I got it yesterday
  
  controls:9.5 out of 10. The controls are very interactive and for the boomarang you can draw where 
 you want it to go. Swipe with the stylus to swing your sword and you can write on the map and in 
 a lot of cases they show you secret routes that you can write in any way you like. The only reason 
 I gave it a 9.5 is sometimes the sommersauslts where on the edge of the screen you scrible little 
 circles is ectremely hard to do while moving by draging the stylus, also the sword swipping is a 
 little boring after a while.
  
  overall:9 out of 10
  
  Me personaly I borrowed it from a friend for a month and im happy i did. If your looking for a new 
 ds game get it. If you just need something to hold you over to brawl or galaxy borrow from a friend 
 or rent it for 2 weeks. I recomend this game! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Blackjack141
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 14, 2007 1:40 am PT
Review:  Well what can I say i played the best ds game ever. I was not much of a zelda fan but this was 
 something different this was awesome.
  
  Well the basic story is that there are tales of a ghost ship and link, tetra and the crew sail one 
 day and tetra ends up being kidnapped while link falls off the ship and is on an island and meets 
 his fellow fairy where they both find awnsers and meet the blundering fool limbeck on the way and 
 sail together to save tetra and in limbecks case find wealth.
  
  The controls of link are suprisingly good where it is basically all controlled by touch screen 
 to move link you guessed it slide across the screen. You can also roll if you draw little circles 
 at the corners while sliding. To attack there are 3 ways stab-touch the enemy, Slash- slide across 
 the enemy and spin- draw a circle around the enemy. A very cool feature in the game is sailing 
 on limebecks ship where you can customize like put weapons and adjustments on it. Sailing was one 
 of the most enjoyable things of the game where you draw the route and you set sail to your destanation, 
 while travelling you can encounter obstacles like blokages or pirates.
  
  
  The main elements of this game are travel, battle, buy, clollect and puzzle. The puzzles in this game 
 can range from finding fight order or to choose right path luckily you have a map in whitch you 
 can draw on which is a very good idea. every stage leads to a boss where you fight easy to hard.
 
  
  The graphics are perfect for a ds game and the cutscenes and subtitle create a good story. I was 
 addicted to this game and i couldnt put it down I higly reccomend this to every person who owns 
 a ds. 9.5 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ariamunchkin
Rating: 8.9
Date: Oct 14, 2007 12:57 am PT
Review:  I can't claim to be a true die-hard Zelda fan, because in truth, I have never actually personally 
 beaten any of the Zelda games, and I haven't really played anything earlier than Ocarina of Time. 
 However, Ocarina of Time was probably the game that got me into video games in the first place. 
 Ever since I have been hooked, and I have owned every Zelda game to come out for a major Nintendo 
 system since (minus GameBoy) . Twilight Princess remains my favorite, although I still have not 
 gotten beyond the earliest levels. Second to TP, however, would probably be Wind Waker.
  
  Wind Waker was such a departure from the current look of Zelda, and yet, it fit perfectly into 
 the world. It was simplistic, full of colorful characters and wide open spaces with so much to 
 explore. And while sailing did get incredibly monotonous, the improvements to the attack systems 
 (which were upgraded in TP) and the vast amount of sidequests made Wind Waker a sheer delight for 
 me to play.
  
  I was put off by what I called the Saturday Morning Cartoon style animation at first, but I grew 
 to love it, so when I saw that a sequel was being made for DS, I was extremely excited.
  
  Phantom Hourglass picks up where Wind Waker left off, with Link and Tetra sailing into adventure, 
 pursuing the treasure-laden Ghost Ship. However, Tetra is kidnapped by the mysterious vessel, and 
 Link, being the Hero that he is, dives after her. He ends up washed up on a beach, awakened by 
 a fairy named Ciela, and his quest is clear. Find the Ghost Ship and rescue Tetra.
  
  Ciela is by far a much less annoying fairy than her predecessors *cough*Navi*cough*. This is probably 
 because your other companion, a sailor named Linebeck, is extremely useless and irritating, but 
 a source for slight humor in the banter with Ciela. Oh, and he can read the maps you collect. Yeah. 
 The other characters you come across are as varied and creative as those in Wind Waker, including 
 Oshus (aka Grandpa) , some friendly Gorons (yay Gorons!) , the frost-dwelling Anouki (who are too 
 cute) and a feisty lady-sailor named Jolene (reminiscent of the Gerudos in OoT) .
  
  By far the best thing about Phantom Hourglass is the play-style. The Stylus is your joystick, d-pad, 
 buttons, and target all at once. Simply drag the stylus along the screen to move in that direction. 
 Tap an enemy to attack it. Equip the boomerang and trace out its path freeform across the screen. 
 In this manner it feels a lot like a combination of Wind Waker and Twilight Princess (Wii version) 
 because you've taken the guess work out of aiming. Also new to the DS version is the ability to 
 write notes on your maps - especially useful in places that you must visit repeatedly. Speaking 
 of repeatedly, Phantom Hourglass presents us with a unique temple area - the Temple of the Ocean 
 King. The curse on the temple only allows you to enter it for a certain amount of time, and the 
 lower levels only become accessible after you have gained new abilities, powers, weapons, and time 
 from defeating the temple bosses. It does get a little frustrating having to go through the same 
 levels over and over, but each time it gets easier, because new shortcuts are available to you 
 once you have aquired a new weapon or technique. Eventually you have the ability to save your time 
 and return to the halfway point of the temple instead of having to go through the first few levels 
 every time. As far as temples, levels and bosses go, Phantom Hourglass is structured in the same 
 way as every other Zelda game. You must complete three tasks first, then you find out what is REALLY 
 going down, and you have to complete another several tasks. In this case, you track down the three 
 Fairies, then you must gather the three pure metals to make a special new sword. Strangely enough, 
 for the entire first half of the game, only half of the world is open to exploration, but it doesn't 
 feel small. There's lots to do and explore. Baddies and Bosses are once again recognizable, your 
 old friends from Wind Waker are back - Keese and Miniblins, Chu-Chus and skulls, with a few new 
 additions. The dungeon bosses are all unique, but Zelda fans will immediately recognize the similarities 
 to past bosses like Twinrova, King Dodongo, and others whose names I can't remember.
  
  So, strong points again, the play style, the graphics (which fit so perfectly for the DS) and the 
 overall charm. Did I mention the play style? I'll say it again. Other cool points include the ability 
 to customize Linebeck's ship by collecting ship parts from various treasure chests and minigames. 
 Also added to this installment is an actual process/game to hauling treasure. Rather than just 
 stopping at an X and dropping your salvage arm you actually have to maneuver around octorocks to 
 pick up your chest (and some rupees along the way) without causing too much damage to the arm.
 
  
  And I will transition that into what I think is one of Phantom Hourglass's few weak points - the 
 sheer linearity of the story. There isn't nearly the opportunity for exploration and sidequests 
 as in Wind Waker and other Zelda installments. This was one of the great things about Ocarina of 
 Time and Wind Waker - there was so much to DO outside of the main storyline. However, because this 
 is for a handheld and not a major system, this is undertandable. The minigames available are fun 
 and semi-rewarding, so that is something.
  
  Otherwise, the only weaknesses in Phantom Hourglass are ones that come simply because this is a 
 game designed for a hand-held, not a classic controller-styled game. Switching between equipped 
 items becomes a hassle, but to make up for it you have a never-ending supply of pots (they reset 
 when you reenter a room, and still contain stuff! so no matter how many times you crack that pot 
 in the entry chamber, it still has a heart!) . Sailing is a pain, as in Wind Waker, but the size 
 of the map makes it a lot faster, plus strategically placed warp points make it almost easy. And 
 again, by the time you have entered Basement level 3 of the Temple of the Ocean King for the third 
 time, you have the layout memorized, but this time you have bombs, which makes getting that small 
 key a piece of cake.
  
  Overall, I think Phantom Hourglass is by far the best hand-held Zelda game ever, and ranks pretty 
 high among its regular console fellows. Speaking as someone who has not had a DS for long, it's 
 nice to finally have a game that isn't full of puzzles or minigames designed for someone under 
 the age of eight. A must-have for any DS owner and Zelda fan - and definitely worth checking out 
 if you've got a DS but weren't into the series before. We'll make Hyrulians of you yet! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: PhazonBlazer
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 13, 2007 7:33 pm PT
Review:  The Good
  Great contols, best graphics on DS, Easy for new gamers, mapping elements add alot of strategy, 
 great use of touch screen, the music is some of the best on DS, EXCELENT WIFI PLAY!
  The Bad
  Controls are a little too easy for veterans, Links head just makes me angry, some of 
 the contols get confusing (like rolling)
  
  Finally, a Zelda game for DS, and one of the best of all the Zelda and DS games. You play as Link, 
 the traditonal hero of Zelda series, but with a new contol scheme. Heres a rundown of the controls, 
 to walk just tap where you want to walk, the farther you tap away from Link the faster you will 
 go. To roll you need to draw little circles at the edges of the screen, the problem with this is 
 that it can get mixed up with walking. To use the sword just tap an enemy or draw a line in the 
 space between you and the enemy, you can perform jump attack by tapping an enemy from far away, 
 you can perform the spin attack by drawing a cirle around Link.
  The graphics resemble the Wind Wakers but not as smooth, but they are still very great. The charecter 
 design is perfect, the enemys and inhabitants of the islands are very diverse. The dungeon designs 
 have different ways of solving. The only thing wrong is Links head it just looks like a football 
 crossed with a basketball, but its not really a problem.
  The puzzles make great use of touch screen. Sometimes you need to draw numbers, or symbols. To 
 use the maps you press down on the control pad, then you can mark down things like how to solve 
 puzzles, treasure chests, and places to avoid. You can also use the touch screen to perform different 
 actions.
  The multiplayer and Wifi are extremely fun. One player plays as Link whose role is to collect as 
 many force gems as he can. The other player plays as 3 seekers, whose job is to kill Link before 
 he can collect Force gems. After the Seeker catches Link the two players switch roles. The goal 
 is to have Link toss as many force gems into his/her base. Link can also enter safe zones that 
 the Seekers cant reach. The Seekers can move only by drawing a path to lead them, to switch them 
 just press L or R.
  Overall a very great game. Great controls, graphics, and use of touch screen. I rate it a score 
 of a 9.3 out of 10, because of a little messed up controls 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kensairabbit37
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 13, 2007 9:18 am PT
Review:  A strong DS game and a well needed return to the good ol' days of Zelda even with the art style 
 of Windwaker which is meh. The controls are strong and the puzzles are innovative. It is a good 
 mix between new age gaming and what the old school gamers loved about Ocarina of Time and Link 
 to the Past. This game definitely deserves the trip out and more. The point is that new age gamers 
 and the old school gamers will love this game which is truely crucial to any ongoing series like 
 this. As an old school gamer like myself I whole heartedly recomend this game to any DS owner. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Twilight_King85
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 13, 2007 7:28 am PT
Review:  This game like all zelda games are great. SO you start the game on tetras boat and you must remember 
 this is after windwaker so they have most of the same characters anyway the touch screen works 
 really good for a DS game and the graphics probaly the best DS game with those graphics. the multiplayer 
 is surprisingly good and the wifi works great!!!!! the other fun thing is customizing your ship 
 to what you want and this is a really hard zelda game the puzzles are really hard and the boss 
 fights are amazing so if you dont have this game get it now!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Video_Tycoon
Rating: 9.9
Date: Oct 13, 2007 6:04 am PT
Review:  Okay, so imagine waking up one morning after rescuing your sister, you have found a Ghost Ship, 
 said to have the unthinkable amounts of treasure. So you set off, and than Tetra gets kidnapped 
 and you have to save her! Well, that's what happens in Phantom Hourglass. Those of you waiting 
 for a decent sequel for WindWaker, here it is but with loads more.
  
  The story ties in together so well with WindWaker, I'm not going to delve deeper as there are spoilers, 
 but whatever.
  
  The controls are amazing, 90% touch screen based. The other 10% is like the B button for the map 
 and stuff. They are perfect, it sounds hard to believe but it works so well.
  
  The puzzles are simply put, different from the last. They all vary in difficulty, but they get 
 harder at a good pace. Sometimes you may find yourself just stuck there for 20 minutes, until you 
 find out how to do it right. That may sound boring, but it gives a sense of accomplishment.
  
  The graphics are excellent, best on the DS I've seen thus far.
  
  This game is a must have 
 for any DS owner, whether you like Zelda or not, it's a fresh experience and has made me more of 
 a fan of Zelda than ever! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: RegiNightmare
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 13, 2007 5:32 am PT
Review:  This game is really unique but mostly in the controls. The touch screen is used for pretty much 
 everything. The bosses are also unique and can be difficult but eack of them makes you use a new 
 item. Even through all the Legend of Zelda games this game this one is probaly the most unique 
 of controls. This also gives a change of the legend of zelda mostly in the others you travel on 
 the land. But in this game you mosyley travel by the great sea. And in this you dont really save 
 zelda like in all the others. And in this it seems like you can also be a pirate with going after 
 treasure. They also add acouple of new items wel that I think is new is the grappiing hook and 
 bombchous. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Solar-Nix
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 12, 2007 9:33 pm PT
Review:  This game is simiply solid. The music sounds gorgous and robust, the stylus control is smooth and 
 responsive, the story line is a little stereotypical, but what do you really expect? As mentioned, 
 almost every element of this game is pretty much flawless. The map drawing and innovative puzzles 
 are unexpected. After/if you play this game, you will realize the DS' true potential. Not really 
 talking into it or touching like in other games, but combining Link and the outer humanoid action 
 and fusing them into a rush of icey cold refreshment. For me the best part of the game is the music. 
 Crafted to perfection and polished with a sprinkle of addreneline, then baked to a golden brown 
 crisp or soft, warm bliss. Pick this game up, you wont regret it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: darkone321
Rating: 8.5
Date: Oct 12, 2007 7:28 pm PT
Review:  I will say I was a bit surprised when this game popped out of nowhere. Either I had not been paying 
 attention or Nintendo felt it wise not to advertise. I had no idea they were working on a sequel 
 to The Wind Waker .
  
  I did not care too much for The Wind Waker, though I loved both N64 Zelda games. I played the crap 
 out of the first Zelda, and have most of the gameboy and GBA Zelda games.
  I was a bit apprehensive about buying this game, but alas I am pleasantly surprised! This is a 
 solid, fun, and immersive game. Now my gripes... I can not play this game for a long time, I find 
 myself needing breaks. I like the use of the stylus, but I hate it too. I really wish Nintendo 
 would have allowed choice between the the use of the stylus and D-pad and buttons! The required 
 use of the Mic can be quite annoying!
  
  Overall this is a great game. At it's price point it is worth every penny. If you own a DS and 
 are a Zelda fan, the purchase of this game is a no brainer! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: JB2114ATHOL
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 12, 2007 5:32 pm PT
Review:  Let's begin with the fact that this is a Zelda game and has a certain pedigree to live up to in 
 comparison to its older console brothers and Game Boy grandfathers. Just in case you have no faith 
 9/10 scores, let me just say that this Zelda incarnation is a worthy successor to 2003's the Wind 
 Waker and a superb example of how a handheld adventure games are meant to be. Admirerers of the 
 stylized cel-shaded art direction in the Wind Waker will appriciate the work that went into this 
 game to make it 3-D for the new breed of fun that is the Nintendo DS. The free roaming camera is 
 gone, and the classic 3/4 topdown perspective makes a comeback, and the map stays on the top screen 
 so you never get lost ,then, when the bosses come out to play, you'll fight across both screens 
 in the most epic use of the DS technology yet seen. But is it fun? , you say - yes anyone can pick 
 up this game and have a blast - ANYONE , I really mean it. The D-pad is so last gen , and the innovative 
 minds at Nintendo made Phantom Hourglass entirely touch controlled - and they made a winner! The 
 touch screen works really well, very smooth in response - drag to move - tap to jab - swipe to 
 slice - it works really well and only makes the game more fun than it already is. Good story , 
 control , graphics , etc. All that aside, the only lacking areas for true fans are difficulty and 
 length - or lack therof. P. H. is made for anyone 6 &amp; up with simple puzzles and only 15 - 20 
 hours long, depending on how much of a completionist you are. While not the best Zelda ever made 
 , games that are fun and functional are far and few , especialy in the action-fantasy-adventure 
 department.
  The bottom line here is that if you own a DS and even remotely like the genre, there is no good 
 reason why The Phantom Hourglass should'nt be in your library. So go , get it , and have fun. Yes 
 YOU go NOW. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: udnoe
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 12, 2007 1:42 pm PT
Review:  I don't need to say anymore then this game is awesome and majority agrees. This is one of the reason 
 I like the DS always something NEW. Since I have to make this Review long. One thing I gave it 
 a big thumbs is that my thumbs have not gotten soar like the other LOZ. I need to get me a bigger 
 stylus pen, that way I get a better grip. The graphics are great too, and the sound is great. It 
 was worth the wait, I will never question Nintendo again or at least for right now, I always wonder 
 how they put so much info on that card, at least it must be a 1 Gig card. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Jukilum
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 12, 2007 11:19 am PT
Review:  This is one of the best DS games ever made. Old Top view with new graphics and doesn't use the 
 touch screen just for the heck of it. All activity in the game uses the touch screen actually, 
 and it works better then it sounds. It also keeps the tradition of a well thought out story, and 
 a little bit of humor. A little perk in the game is your boat. You can get more parts for it and 
 customize it completely! The stylus is used for swinging your sword, drawing maps, shooting arrows, 
 running around, and just about everything else!
  
  The graphics are incredible for a DS game, almost as good as Wind Waker's graphics! The music as 
 well is very good, and is also as good as Wind Waker.
  
  Overall I say that you should go buy this game the instant that you can, it is so awesome! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cap_z
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 15, 2007 10:33 am PT
Review:  this game is a epic ds game, this is what a ds game is suppose to feel like. i wish that the game 
 had the camera lookout like the console. but it's awesome the way it is. i like that idea of using 
 the stylus and the note pad plus the mircophone. It uses every thing the ds can offer. It has a 
 great layout, especially with the sailing, I have not even got into the game yet, and it is already 
 has impress me and it keeps getting better. The puzzles still keeps me guessing I like the fact 
 you got to use your head and take down notes of the upcoming adventure. I haven't tried the wi-fi 
 yet but i will and the idea of trading stuff over the wi-fi with other people is brilliant and 
 i can't wait to try it out. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Eiloch
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 12, 2007 12:45 am PT
Review:  If for the first five minutes I wished I could have the old style Zelda controls back, that disappeared 
 pretty quickly when the fun and novelty of the touch screen grabbed me. Top notch game, if a little 
 easy so far. Also, I'd have prefered to skip the parts that require me to talk to the game. I know 
 I can just blow into the mic or snap my fingers to get the same effect. But I still feel a little 
 silly playing it in a public place and having to huff into my DS every so often.
  
  A highly recommended entry in the series. I'll be keeping my eyes open for any sequel that comes 
 along. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: OblivionGuy07
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 11, 2007 5:48 pm PT
Review:  The Legend of Zelda: Phantom Hourglass Review
  The Good: Sharp touch based control, incredible use of functions on the DS, crisp and vivid visuals, 
 decent sound, a great story with a lot of plot twists, interesting new puzzles and boss battles 
 in dungeons, an additional multiplayer mode with online play
  The Bad: Short for hard core Zelda fans (14 hours or so) , frustrating and punishing locations, 
 repetition Well 2007 has promised and still promises its great games, and among them, Phantom Hourglass 
 was one of my particular interest. After playing it for a while, I was pleased with the results 
 of this game- it was what Zelda and maybe even non Zelda fans wanted. It is highly recommended 
 to both types of gamers alike, as it is not the hardest to the Zelda franchise. Nintendo put a 
 lot of work into this one, and Phantom Hourglass is marvelous from start to end in pretty much 
 all fields. So, the story in the game follows right up from Windwaker for the Nintendo Game Cube. 
 As you may have foreseen, this game tells a powerful tale with surprises and plot twists. That 
 is pretty much what gamers could expect from the Zelda franchise. While this story is not the most 
 amazing of them all, it is indeed a great one. As I said, it is a sequel of the Windwaker, and 
 you may be worried about not knowing the entire sequence of events. You do not need to worry; it 
 has a very artistic recap at the very start of a new game. The storyline of the game goes something 
 like this (remember that this is my summary so it may not be the best and it might be vague) You 
 (being whatever you named yourself) start off on a pirate ship with Zelda (a. k. a. Tetra) . During 
 your sailing, you run into the Ghost Ship. Tetra gets imprisoned on it and you end up washed away 
 on an island. You encounter this spirit and an old dude who aid you in finding the princess. To 
 locate the ghost ship you must do a bunch of tasks which is pretty much how the story rolls on. 
 Oh and you somehow forget everything because of amnesia when getting washed away. That is your 
 basic introduction to the game. It is time to get into the core game play itself: the adventure. 
 As you could expect the basic formula and elements in previous Zelda titles is here. Going around 
 in dungeons finding key items to proceed, using many unique items to clear puzzles, sailing around 
 the sea- you can pretty much expect all of that. While the franchise has been basically the same, 
 it still is not getting old, and Phantom Hourglass, using the functions of the DS to above and 
 beyond perfection, keeps the formula original in its own fun ways. Yeah, the Nintendo DS is used 
 in some ways you could never imagine. First, all control is touch based. Link moves by dragging 
 the stylus, he swings his sword by tapping an object, drawing a small line, or drawing a circle 
 to do his famous spin attack. Items are selected from a small screen and you tap a small box to 
 use them. All of them are pretty easy to use. For example, take the boomerang: you draw the path 
 you want it to take and it follows it precisely. You can take notes on your maps which helps finding 
 secrets. Even sailing is entirely performed with the touch screen. In fact, sailing is a lot better 
 in this title as a pose to its predecessor. It is easier and much shorter. I thought it was great 
 of Nintendo to redo the whole sailing thing in the Zelda series. It was popular for sure, but with 
 some renovations, Phantom Hourglass pretty much perfects the popular idea. Aside from touch screen, 
 the double screen is used. One represents the game being played itself and a bunch of interesting 
 maps and things of such can be found on the top. You also have to yell in your DS- it intimidates 
 specific enemies. Oh and here is the one specific thing I found pretty amazing as far as DS uses. 
 In this game, there is a part where you must figure out a clue. By closing your DS and opening 
 it back up, the secret is revealed. Although this is a minor feat, I was so impressed with it and 
 was positive to include it in my review. It is these little things that make Phantom Hourglass 
 go above and beyond. In this title, the characters introduced are very memorable and have their 
 own dominant personalities. Many people see this in adventure games and RPGs, but I found these 
 characters to be very interesting- far superior compared to other ones. There are so many characters, 
 many of them being new, and they all look incredible on the DS. I really enjoyed getting to know 
 some of the main characters more and more as the story rolled on. As far as the adventure goesIt 
 is pretty challenging I must say. There are a bunch of puzzles that may throw you off, but it definitely 
 isnt the hardest of the Zelda games and it is on the short side. I would say it would take a gamer 
 maybe 14-16 hours to beat the game. As far as the additional side quests though, there is an extra 
 5 hours or so. Hard core Zelda fans could beat this easily and may be a bit disappointed, as it 
 is easy and fairly clear the whole way through, but these 14 hours are memorable ones. Every dungeon 
 is fun, the story has its surprisesOverall, it is quite the experience. Oh and for those of you 
 who can not stand the fact that it is shorter than you wanted it to be: know it is on a portable 
 console. I too was disappointed in the games length but still, it is what it is. That is one of 
 the very few problems in the game: the length. It is the most dominant of the problems. Still, 
 it is very enjoyable and the game is highly replayable anyway. Bosses are awesome, that being simply 
 put. The battles are all creative and very fun. All of them make use of that specific item you 
 obtained in the dungeon and they all take some sort of strategy. They are big and difficult at 
 times. Overall though, they are not the hardest bosses to the series. Luckily, there is not much 
 frustration taking down these brutes with the touch screen controls. Occasionally, you may have 
 trouble using items. For example, the boomerang takes a few moments to activate. You have to draw 
 its own path. Still, this game is easy so annoyances like that are easily forgiven. The main thing 
 I liked about the bosses was each ones originality. While you never get to really know or listen 
 to most of them, each one is unique in look, fighting style and of course method to defeat. It 
 is all an overwhelming experience entering and leaving a boss room and these battles are definitely 
 some of the main highlights in the adventure mode. Another slight problem Id like to point out 
 there is repetitiveness. There is one temple you must revisit a total of I believe six times. Each 
 journey to it, you try to see how much further you can dig into it. This is the famous Temple of 
 the Ocean King. It is known for its torment and repetition. The hardest part of this game is probably 
 hacking away through this temple. First of all, you are timed. There are areas in the temple that 
 drain your life away and its pretty much located everywhere. Using an hour glass (yes, the phantom 
 hourglass) , you are timed. If time runs out you lose. It is as simple as that. If that were not 
 enough, this temple contains invincible knights you must sneak past, moving platforms and all of 
 that good stuff. This temple is why the game often gets tedious, tough and ultimately highly repetitive. 
 Nonetheless, it is at least a challenge and what a difficulty it is. Phantom Hourglass includes 
 a neat little multiplayer mode. It is not the best part of the game but it is for multiple people 
 and it has wi-fi so some credit is due for the addition of this mode. I have not played it, but 
 from what I heard it is amusing and it is at least worth a look. Kudos to Nintendo for having an 
 online Zelda game- I never thought it would happen. There isnt anything else for me to say about 
 that. As a general wrap up, Phantom Hourglass contains superb game play. The adventure mode is 
 a good 14 hour run, there is a fun additional multiplayer mode, there are plenty of memorable  
 cetera, and it makes great use of all of the DS functions. The graphics in this game are excellent. 
 They are beyond good for the Nintendo DS. I was very pleased with the results. The sound was also 
 pretty good. The tunes were not as catchy as some of the music in previous titles, but it is still 
 nice to hear the sounds. Overall, Phantom Hourglass definitely is recommended for its excellence 
 in all areas. I have had a lot of fun with it and had some nice memories and I hope gamers out 
 there can have the same pleasurable experience I had. Thanks for those who read my review and Ill 
 catch you again some other time. My score for the game was 9.5/10- Superb. Peace,
  -Oblivion 
::::::

::::::
UserName: REVOLUTIONfreak
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 27, 2007 6:43 pm PT
Review:  The Legend of Zelda: Phantom Hourglass, while appearing different on the outside, remains the engaging 
 fantasy adventure wed all come to expect from Nintendos timeless franchise. Last year we got 
 our hands on The Legend of Zelda: Twilight Princess for Wii and Nintendo Gamecube, but portable 
 owners were sad to see that they would not be getting their hands on Phantom Hourglass in time 
 for holiday 07. Fortunately, Nintendo has kept their promise this time with the early October 
 release of The Legend of Zelda: Phantom Hourglass for the Nintendo DS. So, how does it stack up 
 to the rest of the games in the consistently well received franchise? Just as youd expect, its 
 another Zelda classic now available in the palm of our hands. As you may have noticed, Phantom 
 Hourglass returns to the controversial art style of its predecessor, The WindWaker. Gone is the 
 realistic, mature art style of Twilight Princess, and back is the cartoony and colorful world we 
 came to know and love in 2003. Indeed, this is a true sequel to WindWaker, which should make Zelda 
 fans and newcomers rejoice. The artistic look of WindWaker has made little sacrifice in its transfer 
 to the less powerful Nintendo DS handheld, the presentation maintains that colorful storybook style 
 that is pleasing to the eye, and that fantastic mood set by the games quirky emotional characters. 
 Sure, there are noticeably less polygons than in the technically superior WindWaker, but given 
 the technical specifications of the Nintendo DS, I cant say Ive seen a better looking game yet 
 on the handheld.
  
  But enough about the visuals, after all its the gameplay youre interested in, right? Well, you 
 need not worry, because Phantom Hourglass keeps that traditional formula weve come to expect and 
 added a few twists as always into the mix as well. Perhaps the largest of those twists has absolutely 
 nothing to do with the gameplay itself, but rather how you control the game altogether. Nintendo 
 has ditched the directional pad in favor of an entirely touch controlled Zelda adventure. Sounds 
 risky at first, but once you get your hands on the game I can assure you that it feels more natural 
 and responsive than you could possibly imagine. Youll drag your stylus across the lower screen 
 to move Link in 360 degrees, swipe your stylus to slash your sword, and use the touch screen in 
 various different ways to control the many items you gather throughout the game (ie. To throw your 
 boomerang, youll simply draw your path using your stylus) . Using these innovative controls, youll 
 easily find your way around Phantom Hourglass breathtaking world, and into the dangerous dungeons 
 youll wonder upon throughout the experience. Dungeons do of course return, and unfortunately that 
 is where some of Phantom Hourglass flaws start to show. Without a doubt many of these dungeons 
 are creative and a lot of fun to play through, but they are simply too short and too linear, especially 
 in comparison to previous Zelda titles. Most likely this small downgrade is partly due to Nintendos 
 recent casual revolution in the video game industry, or in other words, Nintendos new focus 
 on non-gamers and casual players. In addition to this, several key extra items from the franchise 
 are noticeably absent from Phantom Hourglass. Thankfully however, they have included some replacement 
 collectibles in the form of treasure, which consists of things like jewels and ship parts. While 
 its not of the caliber that heart containers and bottles are, it does make up for the lack of 
 other collectibles in the game. It also adds a bit of length and challenge to the game that otherwise 
 may not be found. Regardless, Phantom Hourglass still produces challenge, even if its not as hefty 
 of a challenge as you might expect. Youll still be getting stumped on a few tricky puzzles that 
 might take you a few minutes to solve, and youll still have that occasional boss battle that youll 
 have to redo once or twice, just dont expect to see that happen as often.
  
  Aside from the depth of on ground combat and puzzle solving, the sailing feature also makes a strong 
 return in Phantom Hourglass. If you felt that the sailing found in WindWaker was at all tedious, 
 than breathe a sigh of relief, because Nintendo has drastically improved the sailing feature. No 
 longer will you have to fiddle with the direction of the wind when sailing, or spend several minutes 
 of monotonous, eventless sailing. In Phantom Hourglass, youll simply draw your path on your sea 
 chart (new charts are found within the Temple of the Ocean King, which youll frequently be visiting 
 in the game) and be on your way. In the process of sailing, youll find treasure amidst the seas, 
 enemies to shoot down with your canon, and uncharted islands to discover and explore (a few cameo 
 appearances found while sailing are sure to give you a laugh) . Surprisingly, you still maintain 
 that sense of freedom on the seas as well, despite the fact that you arent actually controlling 
 the ship while sailing. This is in fact one of the most improved features found in Phantom Hourglass. 
 Now, its time to get to the reasoning for the subtitle Phantom Hourglass. Early on in the game, 
 youll discover the Temple of the Ocean King, in which youll indeed find this time counting gadget. 
 Dont assume thats all the hourglass is for, however, because while inside of this temple the 
 hourglass counts down continuously, and when the last sand reaches the bottom of the hourglass 
 then your game is over. While its a simple concept, it adds a new twist to the game, since youll 
 be revisiting the temple multiple times during the game. Youll eventually come to see just how 
 key the Phantom Hourglass is to the plot of the game, which creates an immersive story youre bound 
 to enjoy, no matter how young or old you are. As far as replay value is concerned, Nintendo has 
 added in a small multiplayer mode to play with once youve finished your quest. While it is not 
 overly complex, it does have enough depth to it to keep you entertained for awhile, especially 
 since it is available for single card, multi-card, and Wi-Fi play. The concept of the feature is 
 to gather points by collecting triforce shards on one of eight maps without getting attacked by 
 one of the phantoms, which is controlled by the opposing player. Once you are eventually attacked, 
 players switch roles, and then the process repeats for two more times. Its definitely more enjoyable 
 than you would think, and the online play is a nice touch. All in all, you couldnt ask for a better 
 Zelda adventure on the Nintendo DS. While the sound is fairly inconsistent in quality at times 
 (although still very catchy and enjoyable) , and the difficulty could have been bumped up just a 
 notch, those two things are very minute in the overall scheme of things, because what youll find 
 in this game cannot be matched on any other platform, handheld or console. This is the true portable 
 Zelda experience youve been waiting for these past few years, and with a lengthy, immersive adventure 
 and a fun small online multiplayer component to boot, youre bound to be playing this game for 
 hours upon hours without ever coming upon a moment where youre not having pure fun. Thanks to 
 Phantom Hourglass' unique presentation and innovative control scheme, this portable adventure breathes 
 new life into the Zelda franchise. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ivory_soul
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 10, 2007 4:25 pm PT
Review:  The Good: Charming and beautiful graphics, and story, the best use of the DS hardware in any game 
 ever, decent length, great new additions such as sailing, interesting online mode
  
  The Bad:... But after a few go throughs it's boring, Zelda formula still hasn't changed, Linebeck 
 is a jerk...
  
  This is the first game that's made me pick up my DS in over 9 months. I've been waiting for something 
 like this to come along amongst the kiddy/crappy games that have been pouring out like diarrhea. 
 Zelda uses everything on the DS... I mean EVERYTHING. You never lift your stylus off the screen 
 and you hardly use the face buttons (in fact you don't even have too) Zelda has some of the finest 
 graphics, game play elements, and stories on the DS thus far. You can use your stylus to move Link 
 around, draw the path of your boomerang, use new weapons such as Bombchus and draw it's path to 
 get to unexplored areas, draw the path or your grapple hook or link the poles together to make 
 a slingshot, use your bow and arrow to unlock puzzles and other hidden items... these are just some 
 of the great ideas for the weapons and gadgets throughout the game. You can also kill some enemies 
 by making a lot of noise (via clapping in the mic) to make it vulnerable, scream in the mic when 
 NPCs tell you to for hidden items, even close your DS to copy contents from one map to another! 
 You can draw hidden symbols on doors to unlock as well. You can draw on your map to mark certain 
 locations so you don't get lost or even take notes to solve puzzles! There is just so much care 
 and detail in this game it's almost perfect. Ever boss fight is cleverly laid out. For example 
 on the second boss fight you fight a giant squid that shoots cyclones at you. He is up in the air 
 at the top and you have to use the cyclones at the bottom screen to aim up top and throw bombs 
 at him. Some boss fights are three stories tall! The story in the game is great and charming. You 
 have to save Princess Zelda (in this game she's Tetra) from the Ghost Ship that caught her when 
 you and your pirate friends were treasure hunting. You wake up in a new world and you have to help 
 restore the Ocean King's powers by defeating the evil Bellum. Now a new element here is ship sailing. 
 You have the Phantom Hourglass which let's you explore the Ocean King's Temple without getting 
 your life drained and you're timed... yeah like Zelda dungeons aren't bad enough without a timer. 
 You can draw your route on your map and sail away. You can customize your ship with parts that 
 you find throughout the world. You can salvage for treasure at the bottom of the sea via a mini-game 
 where you direct a crane to the chest and pull it up. There's just so much in this game it's insane. 
 One nice feature is the online mode. Yes the first online Zelda game. It's a battle mode where 
 you play the Phantoms or Link and you have to put the three tri force pieces in the slots to open 
 the door and the other team are Phantoms that try to stop you. Yes it's interesting but nothing 
 really special. This is a WONDERFUL and beautifully crafted game and is even better than Twilight 
 Princess. The only reason why I don't give this game a 10 is because underneath all the hardware 
 specific quirks... the Zelda formula hasn't changed. You still have spots where it's impossible 
 to solve on your own. Some dungeons are unforgiving. All that is still there. Despite those things 
 it doesn't matter. This game is the best DS game ever made so far and you must own it whether you're 
 a fan or Zelda or not. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bandarman
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 10, 2007 9:43 am PT
Review:  Before I even start talking about this game, I must say that this is my first Zelda experience. 
 Nintendo DS is not a very powerful console and is more known for its innovative ideas using the 
 STYLUS than the graphics or anything else. When I got Zelda for the first time, I was amazed to 
 see how creative the team behind this game is. Not only did they made clever use of the stylus 
 but also created great ideas for levels and bosses which you just can't get enough of. Cutting 
 the story short, I was more surprised to see how many clips the people behind the game has put 
 in it. Sometimes it looks as if I'm really playing a game on a PSOne (atleast) . Putting everything 
 into perspective, I must say that if there's anything that you should buy for your DS, its this 
 game. I had never played anything so addicting and insatiable on the DS before! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Bozaba
Rating: 8.5
Date: Oct 9, 2007 5:14 pm PT
Review:  CONTROL:
  
  Immediately evident and unique in this Zelda is the exclusive useage of the stylus, that's right, 
 exclusive. At first I thought this would bring the game down but I was so wrong. In fact it enhances 
 it... A LOT, and does a good job at it too. I was a bit skeptical at first about the 'drawing on 
 the map' feature but man, now I think how I ever was able to do without. Something like this would 
 be useful in metroid or castlevania games as well. Its useful because lets say you find a chest 
 out of your reach and there is a post or two nearby... you can jot down where it is and come back 
 to it once you get the item that will allow you to reach it, no more worrying about forgeting those 
 items! Bombs are much easier to place too, you just have to tap where you want to throw something. 
 Oh one thing I did find annoying was trying to use the boomerang in combat. To throw you must draw 
 a path and it seems never to hit the fish monster's back when I needed it too... oh well, the hammer 
 is sweet though.
  
  AUDIO:
  
  The audio was greatly influenced by the game's counterpart, Wind Waker, so you will hear a lot 
 of the same themes and such along the way... that is not to say that its all unorigional and it 
 was still good.
  
  VISUAL:
  
  The graphics are very well done for the DS. Comparing it to windwaker they are much the same, but 
 in this one the art is much less cell-shade-ish though... I find myself surprised at the basic 
 grass' detail everytime I turn it on. Not to mention as well that Wind waker was a Gamecube game 
 not a 64 game so it makes it all the sweeter.
  
  STORY:
  
  The story is your basic zelda premise with zelda, or tetra in this case, being stolen away from 
 some dark character and you go off and save her. Yet in this one there are many things done differently... 
 For starters this is a direct sequel and starts off from right where wind waker left off. The characters 
 are funny and varied but I would have liked to have seen more. As for storyline the ending was 
 something else! Very well done how they incorporated the end boss' multiple forms! Im not spoiling 
 anything more though so play it for yourself. Oh and sorry, no gannon or master sword this time 
 'round... A blessing or a curse?
  
  OTHER THOUGHTS:
  
  The Boss Battles are amasing! Especially the last temple boss and the end boss himself. The game 
 overall was a tad easy as most of the enemies were little baddies such as snakes and slimes... 
 I would have liked to see more bigger harder monsters in the temples and more enemies in general 
 but oh well... Oh and another couple things: the amount of main items you recieve is only 7 and 
 your collection screen doesnt hold as much as, say, Ocarina of time, unfortunately, also there 
 is no replayability or 'second quest' like there was in windwaker, with the camera... But one very 
 unique thing was that you can build and customize your ship... I never did get a full set though... 
 The Legend of Zelda was a delight to play and I thouroughly enjoyed it despite some of it's shortcomings. 
 8.5/10 and a recommendation! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Edraenth
Rating: 9.8
Date: Oct 9, 2007 1:42 pm PT
Review:  This is far and away one of the better Legend of Zelda titles to hit store shelves. The original 
 LoZ is still my single favorite game of all time, and this game does a better job than most in 
 the series of recapturing the fun and joy that the original game brought me.
  
  The touch-screen controls are quick to master, and give the game a truly interactive feel. The 
 puzzles are intriguing and require some thought to solve, but have yet to prove frustrating or 
 unconquerable.
  
  The only negative I have encountered is that some of the stylus-controlled moves, particular the 
 rolling maneuver to shake things down from trees, is a bit clumsy, but only enough to distract 
 you for 3-5 seconds before you get it to work. All in all, a minor complaint for a truly great 
 game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bjmage16
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 9, 2007 1:23 pm PT
Review:  I'm not completely done with the game, so I'm only giving a quick review. So far, this is the best 
 DS game out. And a pretty darn good Zelda game as well.
  
  I was afraid when they said this was a stylus only game. Nothing like that has been done, and nothing 
 has been done to drastically change the gameplay formula since OoT ten years ago. The game accomplishes 
 great gameplay with the stylus flawlessly.
  
  It's easy. Touch the direction you want to move. Tap an enemy, and Link will lock on and swing 
 his sword. Move the stylus in a sharp, straight motion and he swings the sword without locking 
 on to an enemy. Draw a circle quickly around Link, and he'll execute his spin attack. Etc. It works 
 great.
  
  How does it change the formula? It really doesn't do anything huge to tell you the truth. It just 
 makes the game more... fun. More interactive. There are other gimmicks that use the touch controls 
 as well. Writing on your maps is fun, and there are some fun (albeit simple) puzzles that require 
 you to draw on your maps. The boomerang now follows a path you draw, which again makes for some 
 new puzzles. You also draw symbols to teleport, blow into the mic for various reasons, and other 
 context-sensitive actions litter the game. It's really quite fun.
  
  So far, it's pretty easy unfortunately. Ever Zelda game since WW has been pathetically simple, 
 and so far that formula isn't changing. But that's ok. It's a nice, simple, FUN adventure. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: moh2in
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 9, 2007 12:15 pm PT
Review:  I've gotta admit. This is the first time a Zelda game has come out on the NDS, and by far it's 
 pretty good.
  The game is nice, awesome graphics, awesome story. The only problem is Links face.. which looks 
 slightly different from the Gamecube version of Wind Waker.. but apart from that the game is great. 
 I dont know why people say it's easy ... it's hard just like any other zelda game you will play.. the 
 only and (really really really ) annoying part is that you have to go back to the temple of the 
 ocean king which is in the begining of the story to recieve a sea chart to get to the next temple... However, It's 
 a lot of fun and will keep you busy for hours solving it's many puzzles.
  Overall, great fun. Do get this game if you dont have it already. A zelda game is worth getting 
 a DS alone 
::::::

::::::
UserName: JustPlainLucas
Rating: 8.5
Date: Oct 8, 2007 11:00 pm PT
Review:  The Legend of Zelda is perhaps one of the longest franchises in Nintendo's history. It was only 
 a matter of time before the DS saw its own installment, and just as with every Zelda before it 
 (aside from the aweful CD-i games) , it's just as spectacular as you'd imagine.
  
  Phantom Hourglass takes place after the events of Wind Waker, and because of this, the cel-shaded 
 graphic style of the game is carried over. Instead of being a fully-3D game, it's more of a top-down 
 traditional Zelda. Only during boss sequences and cut-scenes does the game really go into 3-D.
 
  
  Phantom Hourglass also has you controlling Link entirely with the stylus. Depending on your open-mindedness, 
 you'll either enjoy it or be frustrated with it. Similiar to Twilight Princess, you're accompanied 
 by a fairy, who will pretty much be your cursor. Touch the screen in the direction you want Link 
 to go, and he'll either walk or run depending on how far your stylus is from him. If you get the 
 hang of it, you'll find it's really easy to control Link, but if you just don't want to put up 
 with it, you might as well stop playing.
  
  The combat is actually a lot of fun, perhaps the most fun it has ever been in a Zelda game. All 
 you need to do to attack an enemy is tap on it, and Link -no matter where he's facing or how far 
 he is - will attack them. You can slash by rubbing the stylus across from Link, or thrust by rubbing 
 away from Link. If you draw a circle around Link, you'll do the power slash. Sadly, Link's somersaulting 
 is rather tricky to pull off, because you need to draw tiny circles at the edge of the screen, 
 and most of the time Link's unresponsive. Fortunately, you never really need to somersault.
  
  The stylus combat continues to come alive with the boomerang and bombchus. With the boomerang, 
 you draw the path you want it to take, and then take your stylus off the screen and watch as it 
 zips around exactly where you want it. Bombchus are mobile bombs, and work just a tad differently 
 when it comes to path making. When you equip the bombchus, your screens swap, with the map coming 
 down to the touchscreen so you can draw your path that way. After the path is drawn, it scutters 
 across it until it hits its target or runs out of path. Also, thanks to the stylus, you can now 
 perform... PRECISION BOMB TOSSING! Quite a novel idea.
  
  One very handy feature of this new Zelda is being able to scribble notes on your map and sea charts. 
 One way it's useful is by jotting down areas you can't get to yet because you don't have the appropriate 
 item. This feature is actually used quite often by most of the dungeons, because you'll find tablets 
 that will give you riddles or an order of numbers for lever puzzles, and you'll need to write them 
 on your maps to help you solve them. Sea faring is back, and thankfully, it's not quite such a 
 bore this time around. Your ship is piloted by a captain, and when you want to set sail, you merely 
 draw your course on the sea chart, and the captain will sail the ship accordingly. All you have 
 to do now is tap at enemies to shoot them, once you get your cannon. You can also look around by 
 touching areas of the screen, and you can stop the ship and reroute it at any time. Like Wind Waker, 
 there is a method for teleporting to different spots in the sea. After you meet with a giant golden 
 frog, you're given what's called the Sea Slate. When you come cross golden frogs leaping out of 
 the water, you can shoot them to get their attention, and they'll hold up a sign that has a symbol 
 that has you draw those symbols on the Sea Slate in order to teleport to those spots. Salvaging 
 is back as well, but it's a little more involving this time around. Instead of just finding an 
 X on the chart and dropping the claw into the drink to pull up a chest, you'll actually need to 
 play a mini-game if you want to bring up the submerged booty. You'll start with the claw diving 
 down, and you control the arm by dragging a slider left or right across the screen. You can also 
 control the rate of descent and ascent by tugging the switch up or down. There will be octomines 
 that you will need to dodge, and you can collect rupees if you want to go out of your way to get 
 them. Once you reach the treasure chest, you then have to bring it back up, avoiding the ocotmines 
 again. Your salvage arm does have a health bar, and you must pay to fix the damages, so you really 
 got to be careful when you salvage.
  
  The downside about salvaging? All it's good for is collecting ship parts. Yes, you can customize 
 your ship, but if you don't care about appearances, it's pretty pointless. Your ship does have 
 a stamina bar, and it does increase with more of the same themed parts equipped, but that's about 
 the only real incentive for looking for all these sunken parts. After you solve a puzzle on a certain 
 island, you can also exchange ship parts with friends via Wi-Fi, and that really is a nifty idea, 
 as you're bound to find lots of duplicate parts.
  
  There is a disturbing lack of Zelda mainstays, though, and one of the most apparent of them is 
 Pieces of Heart. There are whole heart containers, but they're mostly acquired from beating temple 
 bosses and buying them from merchants. Gone also are the compasses and maps that are found in the 
 dungeons. Instead, if you want to know where the treasure chests are, you have to find statues 
 and pay them 20 rupees... per floor. EXTREMELY uncool. On the upside, you have full access to the 
 floor's map the moment you enter it. Also, for a world that's set on the ocean, it seems very odd 
 that Link is never allowed to swim and for fishing fans, you'll have to look elsewhere because 
 there's no fishing in this installment.
  
  There is also another aspect to the gameplay that doesn't seem very well fleshed out, and that's 
 spirit upgrading. During his quest, Link will rescue three spirits, each with their own elemental 
 attribute. Spread throughout the world are Power, Courage and Wisdom Gems, and they're used to 
 level up the spirits, but they take 10 gems each to level up. Once you level them up for the first 
 time, you can equip one of them to gain a performance enhancement. The Power Spirit will embue 
 your sword with flames. The Courage Spirit sends out a shockwave with each slash, and the Wisdom 
 Spirit grants your shield extra defense. The issue with these enhancements is the game never offers 
 opportunities to put them to good use. There's never any ice that melts with the fire sword. There's 
 never any enemies that are sensitive to the shockwave. You'll probably never even use your shield 
 that much. It justs seems completely tacked on.
  
  Perhaps the game's greatest bane is its biggest temple, the Temple of the Ocean King. The temple 
 resides on the island you start on, and just so happens to be broken up into several basement floors. 
 What makes this temple a major pain is that you're going to have to revisit it several times, because 
 you'll be limited to how far you can go based on what items you've acquired. It's also a host to 
 unbeatable (until you get the game's version of the Master Sword, the Phantom Sword) denizens called 
 Phantoms. Zelda has never really pulled off a stealth mechanic well, and it's no different here. 
 What complicates matters is that you're timed. The Phantom Hourglass protects you from the life-sapping 
 purple mist that fills the temple, but only while the sand flows. You get more sand with each boss 
 you defeat, and even though you have plenty of sand to protect you until you get where you need, 
 it's never fun to do a dungeon under a time constraint.
  
  As said before, the game uses the same graphic style as Wind Waker, but unfortunately, it's not 
 as beautiful since the DS isn't as powerful as the GameCube. It may not be a fair thing to say, 
 but when you have cartoon graphics that suffer from pixelation upclose (similar to Super Mario 
 64 DS) , it takes away from the game's beauty. For what the DS can do, though, this is a great looking 
 game.
  
  The music is also just as good as a Zelda game can get. Thankfully, one of the missing mainstays 
 was not the disappearnce of the little chime that follows whenever you discover something or hit 
 a switch. Unfortunately one of the missing mainstays is the sound effect of the difference in pitch 
 of the twang that follows the sword when it strikes a wall, hinting at a hidden breakaway section. 
 Still, the overall audio of the game is just what you'd expect from any other Zelda. Phantom Hourglass 
 is a mix of new, a splash of old, and a dollop of inexplicable omittances. Thanks to the stylus 
 interface, the gameplay seems vividly fresh and reinvented, but at the same time it seems dumbed 
 down to those of us who really enjoyed the challenges past Zeldas have presented us. Just about 
 every dungeon has been rather disappointing, but some of the boss sequences have made up for it. 
 The game also uses the DS for some extremely clever interactivity that hasn't been seen much since 
 the original Metal Gear Solid. Even though this Zelda is left wanting in several areas, it more 
 than makes up for it in others, and should definately be played by fans of the series and the DS 
 alike. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bbkchib
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 8, 2007 10:27 pm PT
Review:  I love the Zelda series, just like I love the Mario series and the Metroid 2D series. I waited 
 in anticipation for this Zelda game and wanted to play this one more so then Twilight Princess. 
 That is because this was supposed to be the sequel to Wind Waker, my favorite Zelda game. At least 
 that what the adventure was supposed to be about. But I never once felt that this was a continuation 
 of Wind Waker. What I was given was a side story instead. I don't want to spoil the story and ending, 
 for those of you that are still playing. Sure Tetra was in this game and Link and the rest of the 
 characters are in the Wind Waker form, but aside from that, you don't get to meet anyone familar, 
 from the Wind Waker world.
  
  For the game itself, this was one of the most innovative games that I've ever played. The programmers 
 designed this game specifically for the DS Hardware, using the stylus to move Link. In fact, almost 
 everything is done by using the stylus. From swinging the sword to shooting arrows and throwing 
 boomer rings it's all done with the stylus. It's a new way to play the game and it does takes some 
 time to get used to. In the very beginning , I can't help but touch the directional buttons. But 
 that does nothing but open up the menus. The mic was also used. In various places, you are required 
 to yell out or blow out stuff. But there was one little puzzle that was extremely innovative.
 
  
  This here is a spoiler so skip to the next paragraph if you don't want to know this. But at one 
 point in the game, you will find a map on a wall. And the hints all tell you to transfer the emblem 
 from the map to one of you maps by pressing against it. I was stuck at that point in the game and 
 this is the first time I ever had to read a cheat (for a Zelda game) to get a clue on how I was 
 supposed to press my map against the one on the wall. So what I had to do was open up my map so 
 that it show up on the bottom screen, that will make the map on the wall on the top screen. The 
 innovative part here is that you transfer the emblem by closing the DS. That way the top screen 
 is supposing touching the bottom screen and that is how you rub your map against the map on the 
 wall. I would have never thought of that.
  
  At the very start of this game, I was hooked with this new way to play The Legend of Zelda. I was 
 also attracted to the fact that this is the sequel to my favorite Zelda game, Wind Waker. But at 
 first glance, the graphics look like they are the same as the one on the GameCube, but once you 
 get this game in front of you, the graphics are kinda dissappointing. The graphics just isn't as 
 clean and refine as the ones on the Gamecube. It's kinda like when you play Animal Crossing on 
 the GameCube and then play it on the DS. You will immediately see the graphic downgrade. But that 
 is too be expected since the DS doen't have the same graphics processor of the GameCube.
  
  Now for the audio track, I got to say that this one is somewhat fresh. There are the traditional 
 Zelda tunes, and there are a lot new ones. And like Wind Waker, you will learn to like the tune 
 you hear while you are on the ship since you have to traveling across seas for most of the game.
 
  
  As for what I dislike about the game, the control at times can work against you. Make sure your 
 stylus are collaborated correctly because in some case you have to pin point things on the map 
 percisely. And there are time you might want Link to do one thing and Link does something else 
 because of the way you move your stylus. But the one thing I truely didn't like about this game 
 was that half way into this game, I find myself passing dungeons and collecting items, and it's 
 just like every Zelda adventure. Get the Powers, then get the items to improve the sword, then 
 we go and save Zelda. Now I am wiling to spend the many hours to beat all the boss and complete 
 every Dungeon level, but after awhile, I find myself not caring anymore. At first the new gameplay 
 hooked me into continue the quest. Soon after, I just wanted to complete every dungeon and beat 
 every boss as fast as I can and get done with this game. The Puzzles got easier because they were 
 like all other Zelda games. I never once find them difficult. I also tried out the multiplayer 
 mode, the single cart version and didn't like that one at all. I have not tried the WIFI mode and 
 multicart version of the two player game mode.
  
  So why do I continue to do the same adventure, over and over? The reason is because with every 
 new Zelda game, your are presented with something new and innovative. The programmers of this game 
 are definately geniuses for the way they presented the way you are to play this game. This one 
 is worth your time because you might not get to play another one like it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: scurran007
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 8, 2007 8:55 pm PT
Review:  I waited for this.... Many people I know did not believe that Wind Waker lived up to Ocarina or 
 MMask. They felt that Wind Waker was too juvenile. I, on the other hand felt that there was room 
 in the Zelda world for both Links. I truly enjoyed Wind Waker and was almost sad to complete it. 
 I thought that I was in the minority of people who believed the cartoon link was worth while. The 
 Expressions and humor of the cartoon Link kept me laughing! I loved the seemingly dirty looks that 
 Link would give the dragon boat when walking around.. When they announced that there would be a 
 new story Phantom Hourglass that would follow the story of Wind Waker, almost a continuation... I 
 was ecstatic! Then the wait..... the looong wait.
  It was well worth it however. Phantom Hourglass has the same feel as Wind Waker, humor and all. 
 I purposely waited a few day to review this game, so that I could get comfortable with it.. Well 
 that did not take long.
  The movements , Stylus motions, opening doors, picking up objects and throwing your boomerang is 
 very intuitive. I wish all games where are easy to get used to. Cartoon link if funny as ever, 
 and Limebeck is an interesting character as well, although you want to slap him sometimes. The 
 dungeons so far are not as hard as Wind Waker, but not so easy that your bored... it still is a 
 good challenge (at least for my middle-aged brain) . IF someone was asking me for a suggestion on 
 buying this game and they were new to the whole Zelda Series, then I would say Buy it now! However, 
 if I were to be asked by a true Zelda fan, I would have to ask how they felt about Wind Waker first... because 
 this title is more of the same, but with new control features.
  My personal feelings on the game, after about 5 hours of play.....
  Its wonderful,.... Graphics 
 9, Sounds 8.5, Story 9.5 Controls..9.0 ( I am having trouble picking up bombs, I end up swing my 
 sword sometimes and blowing myself up.... also to roll into a tree takes some practice, else it 
 would be a 10)
  for $34.00 there is a lot of entertainment value here... I would say it is the best game I have 
 for my DS so far 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Conver
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 8, 2007 6:32 pm PT
Review:  I've played this game until the end. Currently working on the last level. The puzzles are by far 
 the best part of the game. Some will make you ponder, atleast one did for me, for quite some time. 
 The action is very boring, however. Playing completely with the stylus became tedious and tiring 
 at times, and having to tap different sub weapons in the middle of battle/time challenges, it is 
 increasingly painful.
  
  While there are a lot of collectibles to be found in the game, one could say there are too many, 
 including 3 sets of 20 gems, tons of boat pieces, and heart containers (thankfully not pieces) . 
 The minigames were fun, but like I stated above, the time challenges were pains trying to swap 
 subweapons -- often eating away a couple precious and vital seconds.
  
  The storyline is generally unsatisfying, being lead around by a leash the whole time made it seem 
 less of an exploration game. The graphics are superb, and the music is melodic. This is definitely 
 a game you shouldn't miss out on for the DS, I just feel that there could have been a bit more 
 refining done, or to have the option of using buttons or stylus-play. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: -Tish-
Rating: 8
Date: Oct 12, 2007 5:10 am PT
Review:  You have got to give a lot of credit to Nintendo for pulling out all the stops and introducing 
 Wind Waker in a cartoon-ish, cel-shaded format that, for the majority, didnt see eye-to-eye with 
 fans of the Zelda series. In the end, however, Wind Waker was praised for its unique gameplay mechanics 
 and charming storyline. Picking up where that story left off, Phantom Hourglass contains its own 
 set of unique characteristics that makes it worthy of the Zelda name. At the same time, there are 
 certain traits presented throughout the adventure that arent as consolidated as others, and you 
 may have a hard time enjoying them thoroughly.
  
  The journey takes place almost immediately after Wind Wakers side of the story, as you roam the 
 seas with Tetras crew of conglomerated miscreants. The crew figures to cross paths with the infamous 
 ghost ship, a vessel renowned for looting and sinking other ships in the area. The crew is determined 
 to put an end to its reign of terror. As youd expect, the ghost ship turns up, abducts Tetra out 
 of her own perseverance, and involuntarily thrusts Link into the open sea. Link washes ashore and 
 is greeted by a fairy named Ciela, who you will immediately recognize has inherited Navis, from 
 Ocarina of Time, line of legend. Hey! Theres a lot more to the story that I probably shouldnt 
 reveal, so let me skip ahead a bit! Eventually, you come face-to-face with your soon-to-be partner 
 in crime, Linebeck. In a sense, Linebeck is a Jack Sparrow and a half: He never wants to do the 
 hard work, and hes only helping you out for his own profit.
  
  For the most part, the transition from the GameCube to the DS was successful. Apart from the home 
 console to portable surface changeover, youll identify many other significant differences from 
 Wind Waker. For one, the entire control scheme is etched in a touch screen formula. Its a little 
 clunky at times, but it works well to an extent. You can move in any direction by tapping and holding 
 the stylus on the touch screen. Similarly, stroking at a horizontal angle from Links presented 
 perspective performs a sword slash, and circumnavigating the stylus around Link manufactures a 
 spin attack. Things become a little shakier, though, when it comes to precision base jumping and 
 running along streamlined cliffs and routes. The touch screens dynamics can easily respond in 
 the wrong fashion when youre jumping from platform-to-platform, and making it even worse, Link 
 cant swim. Instead, hes sent back to the falling point with a half heart less on his life meter.
 
  
  Conversely, weapon controls on the touch screen are used in an extraordinary manner. Like previous 
 Zelda games, Phantom Hourglass entails the weaponry individually throughout various dungeons, and 
 each weapon is used significantly in the dungeon its found in. However, youll end up using each 
 weapon sporadically throughout the game for a mixture of different quests. The weapons you garner 
 range from the boomerang, which can be released by simply drawing a path on the touch screen, bombchus, 
 which, like the boomerang, require a drawn path to a target, and the hookshot, which also obliges 
 a path to a wooden target. On occasion, each weapon is used in new, meaningful ways that have never 
 been perceived in past Zelda games. Instead of simply hooking onto and grappling targets with your 
 hookshot, its possible to create a tightrope between two hookshot targets, enabling you to walk 
 across into new territory. Instead of using your hammer for smashing tiles and enemies, you can 
 use it to catapult yourself to a higher level of elevation.
  
  Although theres nothing impressively innovative about the dungeons in Phantom Hourglass, all seven 
 of them will provide pure enjoyment and entertainment. Each dungeon engineers practical puzzle-solving 
 formula and great action-themed boss battles that youd expect from a Zelda game. Unlike other 
 games, however, the dungeons are rather easy, but not devote to simplicity. Youll never consult 
 a guide, and you probably wont get caught up on a brain-teaser for any more than five minutes. 
 Uncharacteristically, each dungeon lasts from a half hour to forty-five minutes. While its not 
 exactly the top of the line in dungeon play, Phantom Hourglass really doesnt contain any noticeable 
 flaws concerning level play.
  
  Boss fights are very inventive, and as youd imagine, they are conventionally fought against using 
 the item of choice in that particular dungeon. The first few dungeons present mediocre boss battles, 
 but later down the road youll encounter some very impressive fights that may have you guessing 
 as to what needs to be done in order to expose kinks in the bosss armor.
  
  Anyone whos played through Ocarina of Times water temple would probably agree that its one of, 
 if not the most difficult Zelda dungeon to explore through. In terms of difficulty, Phantom Hourglasss 
 Temple of the Ocean King can top it. Its not a dungeon fully presented at one time; periodically, 
 youll enter it to retrieve sea charts, items that enable you to sail over new areas of the game. 
 The thing that categorizes this temple into the very hard difficulty level is the time limit. This 
 dungeon sucks the life right out of you unless youre standing on a safe zone marked in purple. 
 Sounds easy, right? Roaming the halls of the dungeon are burly, invincible creatures called phantoms 
 (go figure) that will swipe at you when they see you, and theyll only stop chasing you unless 
 you reach a safe zone. In order to maintain your life, you have the Phantom Hourglass, which guards 
 your life force from the temples evil grasp for as long as the sand drops. Thats not the only 
 problem, unfortunately. Later in the temple, youll stumble upon some amazingly difficult puzzles 
 that must be solved on various floors, as well as more enemies and nearly unfathomable situations, 
 all while avoiding the huge guards and keeping in mind your timer. Eek.
  
  Like mentioned earlier, there were a few significant changes with the transition from the GameCube 
 to the DS. Another major difference is sailing the seas. Instead of manually sailing, your ship 
 will cruise across the waters via the routes you draw with the stylus. That said, youll still 
 have to watch out for such hazards as sharks, pirates, cyclones, big rocks, and other aquatic enemies. 
 At one point, youll get a cannon to dispose of common threats, but occasionally youll come across 
 a sea monster boss battle that will employ the cannons uses with a little more authority. In addition, 
 youll receive another nifty tool called the salvage arm. This device sinks to the bottom of the 
 ocean to salvage sunken treasures. As you control the arm in hopes of catching the treasure, 
 large rocks and floating mine creatures will try to preclude your way. If you hit these hazards 
 too many times, the salvage arm breaks and cant be used again until you repair it.
  
  Unfortunately, the graphics arent nearly as impressive as Wind Wakers, or any top-of-the-line 
 DS games, such as Metroid Prime: Hunters and Mario Kart DS. The outlines of objects arent entirely 
 smoothened out and the cutscenes couldve looked a lot more artistically inclined as a whole. In 
 addition, there is no voice acting, as one mightve guessed; instead, youll get to read some humorous 
 lines and phrases from the assorted characters all throughout the game.
  
  To put it simply, Phantom Hourglass isnt for everyone. It maintains a lot of the primary attributes 
 dispersed throughout previous Zelda games, but at the same time, it depends on a lot of new ideals, 
 such as the touch screen controls, that make it a little more idiosyncratic. Over all, youll get 
 a good fifteen hours of gameplay in total, which definitely makes this game worth checking out, 
 especially for someone looking for a lengthy and wholesome adventure game. If you cant, however, 
 work under a strenuous time limit, such as in the Temple of the Ocean King, then you might not 
 want to consider purchasing this game. All in all, Phantom Hourglass is a fitting end to the customary 
 Zelda format, if only for its strengths slightly outweighing its weaknesses. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dougphisig
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 8, 2007 3:05 pm PT
Review:  I can't say enough this one came out of left field I wasn't expecting to like it like i do, but 
 i definately must say I love what they've done with this game. The cell shaded link series has 
 surprised me overall back when it was Game Cube i expected to hate the Cell Shading but was overall 
 surprised in the enjoyment i actually got out of it. Now they surprise me again by taking things 
 to the next level truly this really shows you what you can do with the DS basically leaving nothing 
 to the buttons and everything to stylus play was brilliant. Everything is fluent with movement 
 with stylus and even simple things like being able to aim the bow and arrow more effectively or 
 the fact that now you can control the path of that boomerang. I won't go too much into it especially 
 since i have only made it so far into the game thus far, but I must say i have trouble putting 
 it down with the fun i've had with it. I would suggest this for not only the DS capability enthusiast, 
 but also to Zelda lover's it's overall a great game that should bring some good ole gaming to those 
 that love gaming on portables. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: d_generation69
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 8, 2007 2:45 pm PT
Review:  Believe it or not, The Legend of Zelda: Phantom Hourglass was my first Zelda game ever, as I never 
 paid a lot of importance to the series. However, I was destined to try this game, and when the 
 Japanese release was out, I had a chance to preview this game. It was simply stunning. I had never 
 seen such a good game on this handheld. Now that the US version has been launched, an era of Zelda 
 begins on the DS.
  
  Graphics: I have absolutely no hesitation here, it's a superb and really well-deserved 10. You 
 can complain a little about the notch-down quality vs. Wind Waker, but this game is simply marvelous 
 when it comes to graphics, the best on the DS yet.
  
  Sound: Very nice soundtrack and memorable themes of the earlier games of the Zelda series, PH makes 
 a wonderful selection here. Score 10 here.
  
  Gameplay: Ok, so I expected stylus controls, but I wasn't complaining a lot, TBH, as I've never 
 played a Zelda game before PH. I simply love the touchscreen controls, very responsive. Boss battles 
 are epic and really enthralling and make the DS live up to its name. Sailing is easy, with a predefined 
 route you only need to occasionally beat the odd enemy at sea while going to your destination. 
 10 again.
  
  Replay Value: The game isn't that long, I was expecting a little longer for its awesomeness, but 
 all good things do come to an end. The main storyline will last you an odd 15 hours, but I don't 
 like the backtracking of the Temple of the Ocean King which is simply the biggest, but most tedious 
 dungeon. You will see yourself going around 6 times back there to pass some more levels, spending 
 an awful lot of time in between. Saving is not like the Pokemon games, where if you save while 
 the middle of a dungeon, you have to go back there as the game restarts you at the start with some 
 things you already unlocked, like doors, switches, etc. Battle WiFi mode is cute, although nothing 
 to write home about. A 9 here.
  
  All in all, TLoZ: PH is simply the best game ever to hit the DS. Forget Pokemon, Zelda is the new 
 hype. A instant classic and a must have for any DS user. It truly deserves the top score, and that's 
 why it gets my 10. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gogomesaki
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 8, 2007 1:31 pm PT
Review:  heres a list of things bad about this game
  - too many retuns to sea king castle, you have too do the same thing over and over again
  - lame 
 bad guys. there arent the cool hobgoblins and hoggy things like from wind waker.
  - sailing is still no fun. and now you dont even get to drive the boat. - cliche ending
  
  
 now thats over with, heres all the good stuff
  - boss battles are awesome
  - some funny cut scenes. Mostly link falling offa stuff
  - the puzzles arent freakishly difficult.
 
  - great DS graphics -the honest voice inside your head -Drew 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Frankensteinman
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 8, 2007 11:43 am PT
Review:  The Legend of Zelda: Phantom Hourglass for the DS is an amazing game. The graphics are some of 
 the best that Ive seen on the DS to date, and the game play is stellar. The touch screen controls 
 beautifully, and all of the weapons and items are easily accessible. The story is intriguing and 
 the side quests are very entertaining and help to lengthen the experience. My favorite thing is 
 that the adventure can be put on hold as you salvage treasure or play mini-games. The game handles 
 like a charm and it is a wonderful addition to any Zelda fans library. If you dont own a DS this 
 makes a very compelling case for owning one. This game is a wonderful sequel to WW and it paves 
 the way for great DS games to come. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: FlawlessSeasons
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 8, 2007 7:46 am PT
Review:  Phantom Hourglass takes the Zelda formula and adapts it perfectly to the Nintendo DS, once again 
 proving that no one makes games better for their systems than Nintendo.
  If you played Animal Crossing for the DS, youre going to know what youre in for control wise 
 here. Everything you do is controlled by the stylus, moving, attacking, and any other thing you 
 can think of. But it is executed gracefully so all the actions dont get cluttered up. To attack 
 you can tap an enemy and youll lock on to it or you can just swipe the stylus on the screen to 
 attack multiple enemies. To do a spin attack all you have to do is draw a circle around Link and 
 there you go. Other items such as the boomerang have you draw out a path with your stylus for it 
 to follow, this makes the boomerang the most useful its ever been in any Zelda game. The game 
 is a direct sequel to Wind Waker so once again you will be sailing the seas. This time its a lot 
 easier, like the boomerang all you have to do is set a path and the boat will sail automatically. 
 You will have to avoid the traps fire your cannon every once and a while, but sailing isnt as 
 much of a chore as it was in Wind Waker. As for story, its your classic and true Zelda format. 
 Tetra (Zelda) hops on a ghost pirate ship and gets kidnapped and you, Link, need to rescue her 
 again. Not Shakespeare, but its Zelda, whatever. Over all, Phantom Hourglass is a near perfect 
 adaptation of Zelda for the Nintendo DS. It controls well with only a few minor annoyances, it 
 looks great, and has great music/audio. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mahmoud-madhoun
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 8, 2007 7:16 am PT
Review:  this game rock... i spend 3 hours a day to play it but it kinda difficulty but the bad thing abt 
 is the graphit it kinda werid ....... but still phantom hourglass rock!! It's kind of shocking when 
 you think about it, but despite the Nintendo DS's nearly three-year lifespan, The Legend of Zelda: 
 Phantom Hourglass is the first Zelda game to hit the system. The good news is that it was worth 
 the wait. Phantom Hourglass is essentially a sequel to the GameCube Zelda adventure The Wind Waker. 
 It retains the art style, surrounding world, and plot of that game, but it revamps the mechanics 
 for DS use. The result is a game that is unmistakably Zelda, with its perilous dungeons, tricky 
 puzzles, and engaging boss battles; at the same time, Phantom Hourglass is a unique and innovative 
 entry in the series due largely to its exclusively touch-screen-based control scheme. Everything 
 you do in the game involves taps and swipes of the stylus, from traditional fights and puzzles, 
 to new and specialized functions that really change the way you think about playing a Zelda game. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: uknownhero160
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 8, 2007 4:57 am PT
Review:  I got the game when it got out and i have to tell you that it rocks!!
  those who have Wind Waker you will feel that this is an other adventure that sort of continues 
 it! You go around exploring the sea with the cool islands and the new way that you control the 
 ship actually it's automatic.: D
  
  I was really exited when i got the game!!! But when i saw it was stylus control all the time it 
 felt kind of sad but when i played all over it i could not let it go!! The new stylus control is 
 awesome even it you don't like it!
  
  Exploring temples, islands, caves, holes etc... is really and really COOL!!
  The temples are designed 
 in a new way and it's really original!! You will love this game if you are a Zelda fan!! The graphics 
 are excellent and the items are really cool again!!!!!
  
  What more can I say??? For more information get this wonderful Zelda game and ENJOY! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: wulvarin
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 7, 2007 2:58 pm PT
Review:  From beginning to end The Legend of Zelda: Phantom Hourglass is a stream of wonderful sword-slashing 
 fun. Everything about this game is beautiful, including the temples, puzzles, bosses, and the open 
 seas. The graphics are awesome for a DS game, the best DS graphics I have seen so far. I love the 
 touch pad controls, they work nicely and its fun to use. Everything you do requires you to use 
 the touch pad. There are a couple of new features along with this game, such as how you can draw 
 on most of the maps in the game allowing you to keep notes on various things, this you will use 
 a lot. To use the boomerang, you draw a line for its path, and to use the bombchus you draw a path 
 on the map. The hookshot can also do something new, you can draw a line between two things you 
 can use the hookshot on and it will make a tightrope that you can walk across. You can also use 
 that tightrope to slingshot yourself. There is so much more great stuff that I am too lazy to go 
 over.
  
  There are a couple of bad things about this game however, but they aren't all that bad. This game 
 can be sometimes too easy, most of the enemies die in one hit; the ship can be boring at times 
 when you have to go all the way across to the other side of the sea; and the Temple of the Ocean 
 King, which you will visit a lot, can get repetitive and boring. Other than that, this game is 
 a great game.
  
  If you are a Zelda fan or just like games like these I strongly suggest you buy this game. This 
 game is by far the best DS game out and a true masterpiece, meaning that The Legend of Zelda continues 
 its long line of masterpieces. Three cheers for The Legend of Zelda and may it continue to prosper. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cartoonkid35
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 7, 2007 9:22 am PT
Review:  This game is amazing. Everything about it was perfect. The dialogue is smart and hilarious, the 
 controls are flawless, and the graphics are stunning. I couldnt believe that Nintendo could actually 
 take a game as beautiful as Wind Waker and be able to shrink it to the DS screens without ruining 
 the quality. Another thing that should be noted is the characters. Each character had their own 
 personality and werent just thrown in to make the lands seem populated. As the story progresses, 
 you actually connect in some way to each character. The one gripe I have about this game is that 
 it is too short. But all Zelda games are too short. I was almost heartbroken when this game was 
 over because I love it so much. If you have a DS you NEED to buy this game if you havent already 
 done so. Any Zelda fan will fall in love with this game and any DS owner will also. Buy it!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nintendofreak_2
Rating: 9.5
Date: Aug 16, 2008 11:50 am PT
Review:  The Legend of Zelda Phantom Hourglass is the first installment of the critically acclaimed Zelda 
 series on the DS. Unsurprisingly, the game is amazing. DS owners owe it to themselves to buy this 
 game. Fascinating gameplay, astounding graphics on a handheld game, and an amazing story combine 
 into one on such a little cartridge, one has to wonder how Nintendo was able to accomplish this 
 amazing feat. First, the gameplay is executed perfectly. Like most of you, I was a little worried 
 to find out that PH would only be controlled with the touch screen. Well no need to worry. The 
 controls work almost perfectly. They are precise and easy to use; so much that somebody who has 
 never even played a video game before could master them in around 15 minutes. Using items is simple. 
 An icon on the top right part of the screen shows what item to use. Merely tapping this icon will 
 cause Link to draw the item, allowing the player to use it for whatever reason. However, I personally 
 had trouble with this feature, but luckily the player may use the L button to select items which 
 I found to be much more intuitive and made the gameplay less frantic.
  
  The puzzles and boss battles in the temples are so cleverly constructed. The game makes use of 
 the DS microphone, the touch screen (obviously) , and even the DS's clamp shell design and sleep 
 mode. In fact, the game has the cleverest puzzle I have ever seen in any game. Drawing with the 
 stylus is more accurate than other games, such as Brain Age, so drawing symbols is not as annoying 
 as what it would be. Use of the microphone is minimal, and the player can do most puzzles involving 
 it by merely blowing into it, which is useful in public. However, one puzzle does require a certain 
 sound for the best results, which I found interesting. Do not expect any new items in the game, 
 they have all been seen before. You've got your bow, bombs, bombchus, grappling hook, shovel, boomerang, 
 and hammer. However the actually use of these is clever. Sometimes you'll need to use the hammer 
 to make link fly. Other times you'll need to make a slingshot or a bridge with the grappling hook.
 
  
  I'll try to avoid spoilers. The boss battles use two screens, the bottom for the player, and the 
 top for the boss. The first two bosses of the game are incredibly easy, but they are defeated in 
 some neat ways. The third boss you fight blew me away. This battle uses the top screen looking 
 through the boss's eyes as he runs around invisibly. You have to use that to attack him. The fourth 
 boss was a recycled fight. As Link, you would have to return balls of energy back to the boss. 
 The fifth boss was one of my favorites, and a difficult one too. The player had to control Link 
 and another person (once again I'm trying to avoid spoilers) . The other character would attack 
 the boss, until he was flipped over, then the player would switch using an icon on the top screen 
 to switch back to Link to use the correct item. However, Link and the other character are separated 
 by a crevice of sorts. Not only that, but the boss will us minions to attack Link while you control 
 the other character. The sixth boss is one of my favorites. There are four pegs in which Link must 
 is the grappling hook to reflect balls of energy from one boss to the other. After doing this a 
 few times, the bosses flood the area with rushing water. Use of the grappling hook in this battle 
 is incredibly clever and innovative. The seventh boss is a rather new concept. Link uses the hammer 
 to catapult himself in the air, allowing him to attack the boss's weak points. After doing this 
 for a while, the boss is left just as a head, where Link must catapult himself onto the top of 
 it. 
  
  Navigating across the sea is quite simple. The player draws the path of where they want the ship 
 to go, controlling everything via touch screen. To shoot the cannon, merely tap where you want 
 to shoot. To move the camera, drag the stylus across the screen. The ship is fully customizable. 
 Different ship parts allow for different stamina, allowing more attacks to befall your vessel. 
 Fishing is a simple task, and is performed exactly how you think it would be done. Salvaging treasure 
 from underwater is not as simple as in the Wind Waker. The player must manually control the crane 
 as it moves underwater, avoiding anything that could damage the salvage arm. If it gets hit five 
 times, the salvage arm will be broken, causing you to go get the thing repaired, which is annoying. 
 While sailing, the player will run into enemies such as sharks and other things from Wind Waker, 
 as well as many new enemies. A welcome addition is that whenever an enemy is slain, whatever they 
 drop is automatically picked up, no matter how far away they are. 
  
  After spending some time with the multi-player, I have to say that it is a nice addition to the 
 game. One player controls Link, and the other controls three phantoms (look in the story section 
 for more info) . As Link, try to collect tri force shards and bring them back to your base to get 
 points. While carrying the shards, Link is slowed down depending on the size. As the phantoms, 
 draw paths to Link and they will automatically attack Link, ending the phase. After each phase, 
 the players switch control, meaning the player controlling Link now controls the phantom and visa-versa. 
 While playing as Link, you are not able to see the phantoms on the map unless Link is holding a 
 tri force shard, however, the player that controls phantoms can see Link unless he is a safe zone, 
 which makes Link invisible and invulnerable to phantoms. Scattered among the eight maps are items 
 that can help or hurt each player. The items are specific to each player, and if an item that is 
 designed for Link is destroyed by a phantom, Link will not be able to use it, and visa-versa. However 
 if Link is able to get the item, he will gain the effects of which could turn the tide of the match.
 
  
  Next, the graphics of this game are incredible. Whenever I first popped the game cartridge into 
 my DS and started playing, I was in awe. The graphics are so beautiful; they easily beat out any 
 N64 game. The game's sty le is reminiscent of Wind Waker. The game does not actually use as much 
 cel-shading however. 
  
  The sound quality is rather impressive considering what the DS is capable of. The game actually 
 sounds like Wind Waker. No complaints here. AI in this game is varied among enemies. Bosses have 
 hardest, while normal enemies are easily fooled and stupid. Phantoms, which I will talk about later, 
 are ruthless and sometimes unfair with the punishment the player receives. 
  
  Next, the story of the game is surprisingly pleasant for a Zelda game. The opening cut scene shows 
 Link, Tetra, and her crew on the ship they sailed off on in the Wind Waker, oddly enough, The King 
 of Red Lions does not appear at all. The crew is hunting down the Ghost Ship, attempting to stop 
 its existence from the Great Sea. They finally catch the ship and Tetra boards the ship alone. 
 A shriek is heard from the ship and Link rushes off to save Tetra, but he falls over board and 
 gets separated from the crew and ghost ship. He wakes up on an island with a fairy named Ceila 
 floating above him. This is where your adventure starts. 
  
  After a discussion with the village elder and some traveling along the island, Link goes to the 
 Temple of the Ocean King. Inside he finds a strange man trapped in a room by spikes claiming to 
 be injured. Link saves the man and continues through the dungeon a little bit further. After talking 
 with the man, he reveals his name as Linebeck, who you will be sailing with for the whole game. 
 In the same temple, Link discovers a relic called the Phantom Hourglass. What it does, I will not 
 say to avoid spoilers. 
  
  The player will be revisiting the temple throughout the game. Inside are creatures known as phantoms. 
 Phantoms cannot be killed through normal tactics, and are incredibly dangerous otherwise. One hit 
 causes Link to lose time from the hourglass and sends him back to the beginning of the room. 
 
  
  After completing a few temples, Link learns who is causing the trouble across the seas and learns 
 of a special sword that is capable of defeating the beast. Link must go into search of the alloys 
 that are required to make the blade. The blade also contains the power to kill phantoms, but does 
 not protect Link from the effects of their attacks. 
  
  Overall, The Legend of Zelda Phantom Hourglass is an amazing title. Any DS owner and Zelda fan 
 should buy this game. Bringing new life to an old series, Phantom Hourglass stands proudly among 
 other Zelda titles. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: EndorusBolero
Rating: 9.9
Date: Oct 5, 2007 7:41 pm PT
Review:  My opinion about this game: It is freaking awesome-I love the way they put all of the controls 
 of the DS into one game. Like I said, freaking awesome. One of the things that I criticise is that 
 freaking Captain Linebeck. He is so freaking ugly and self-centered, plus he does practically nothing 
 in respect of Link. Poor fella, that Link... Another thing they could change is the freaking Phantoms 
 that try to kill you. They are sooo freaking annoying. Yeah, maybe I should go back from criticism 
 to compliments. The way you can (spoiler) transport to gold frog locations by drawing on Slate is 
 pretty awesome, too. A third reason for this game to be so freaking awesome is being able to jot 
 random notes on your map. That's my favorite part! Jot, jot, jot, jot, jot! I could jot all day! 
 Huff, huff, I hope you like my review, and don't ask why I say freaking so many times. Okay, that's 
 it. And I am out! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GeekyDad
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 7, 2007 9:31 am PT
Review:  Well, perhaps not buries, but usually when a Zelda game is about to release we hear a lot about 
 it. And we did, indeed, hear about Phantom Hourglass here and there during its time in development, 
 but it didnt even make it to the cover of Nintendo Power upon its release. Reviews of the game, 
 too, were kind of glossed over, and though fans of the series were there to greet the game, gaming 
 as a whole gave little more than a passing glance at what is possibly the very best game in this 
 long-running franchise.
  
  This is Zelda the way I have always wished it would be. Now that Link has finally arrived on the 
 DS, I think its clear that this is truly where he belongs. The stylus is the perfect implement 
 for controlling Link, and this game is basically a culmination of years of Zelda-making  all the 
 best  with few fillers.
  
  For starters, the top-down view is clearly a winner. No more fussing with a camera system during 
 frantic boss battles. Youve got a clear view of everything within Links nearby environment, and 
 it looks good to boot.
  
  Controls? Man, there was rarely a day I wouldnt see a post in some forum  someone complaining 
 how the stylus-only controls were gonna blow. Well, the opposite is true  squared. The controls 
 are the catalyst for what makes this  in my opinion  now the seminal game in the Legend of Zelda 
 series; the system is fluid, easy to use and versatile. You never feel disconnected from Link, 
 rather you feel like youre in his boots at all times.
  
  And the controls are the polished brick and mortar for what is truly an epic adventure on the DS. 
 From beginning to end there is always something interesting and fun to do. Wind Waker was a good 
 game, but there were some pacing issues, as far as Im concerned. Phantom Hourglass, however, is 
 pretty much non-stop goodness. Sure, you are required to return to a particular temple over and 
 over  and its the one element of the game that is, at times, a bit of a drag  but theres something 
 new there, too, to be found each time. The puzzle elements  though many of them will likely be 
 familiar to Zelda aficionados  are, in the context of this game, always fresh, offering something 
 wholly new for you to discover.
  
  Additionally, the world of Phantom Hourglass is huge  not just for the DS  its huge, period. 
 Many islands and races of people to encounter, tons of creatures to battle, and there are bosses 
 up the wazoo  some of the most fun boss battles, at that.
  
  Now, some folks immediately began labeling this game as a sort of Zelda lite  a Link for the casual 
 gamer. Total guff! The game does start out fairly easy  I wont attempt to argue with that notion 
  but it ramps up plenty toward the middle to end of the journey. But the emphasis, surely, is 
 on the fun factor. Phantom Hourglass seems to consider every type of gamer. It will often come 
 at you strong, but if you die and continue, the game will, seemingly, then go a little easier on 
 you. Regardless, the puzzles arent puzzles per se  they are demands on a players resourcefulness. 
 This aspect is perhaps the hallmark of the series, and its perfected in Phantom Hourglass. Youll 
 constantly be required to try things you just wouldnt normally think would be asked of you in 
 a video game, and usually the thing you think is a long shot ends up being the right thing to do. 
 Its genius.
  
  Take all that Zelda goodness and gift wrap it in the most elegant, gorgeous presentation ever seen 
 in a DS game and you have Phantom Hourglass. The graphics are beautiful, but more impressive is 
 the way they are presented. Cinematic cutscenes everywhere, tastefully crafted to move the games 
 story forward in a way that completely captures the imagination. The sound, too, is exquisite, 
 and some of the instrumentation will shock you when you contemplate that its coming from those 
 tiny DS speakers.
  
  Some reviewers have clocked the game in at about 15-20 hours. Im not sure how, but I guess they 
 rushed through it. Myself, Ive gotten closer to 25-30 hours out of the game, and none of it was 
 due to lolly-gagging on boring sidequests. The sidequests that the game does offer are very fun 
 gameplay elements in their own right, and often play into helping you along in your quest. And 
 though you may not be inspired to immediately play through the game again, its definitely one 
 fans will want to keep for another time &amp; place. Theres also a little bit of multiplayer going 
 on, as well as trading. In sum, Phantom Hourglass is a tremendous game wrapped in a tiny DS package. 
 Its clear that a lot of love and inspiration went into this particular Zelda title. For me, Phantom 
 Hourglass now stands apart as the greatest Zelda game ever, and perhaps one of the greatest games 
 of all time. Huge, huge matzo balls on my part, I know, but at least give this one a playthrough. 
 Ocarina of Time had its day in the sun as the gleaming gem among gems, but a new heros tale has 
 arrived, and its a true Legend.
  
  Thanks for reading, and happy gaming!
  
  GD 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gamerbane
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 5, 2007 5:16 pm PT
Review:  Even though i dont own phantom hourglass ive played it and its a spectactular game. U need to get 
 the game if u own a ds. the graphics are some of the best graphics u will find on the ds. IT IS 
 A MUST HAVE DS GAME. a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a 
 a a a a a a very very very very very fun fun fun fun fun game game game game game game 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MangoLlamas
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 5, 2007 2:32 pm PT
Review:  Quick Summary:
  
  If you are looking for a game that uses the genius ways of Nintendo's inovation, this is the game 
 for you. Windwaker artwork does'nt impress most fans though as you progress throughout the game, 
 you'll learn to deal with it.
  
  Pros:
  
  The game ties in both old and new with monsters, bosses, unlockables, weapons, allies and story 
 alike. Ingenius controls guide you through slashing, shooting, digging, etc.... Multiplayer adds 
 new dimension to the Zelda series and can be played by download, ds to ds and wi-fi with two players.
 
  
  Cons:
  
  Much like Windwaker, corny graphics are an inslut to the Zelda series, known for greatness. Taking 
 out one of its major ingredient, lack of challenge further rots the fun of the game. If you dont 
 like to read this might be a pain in the tukhes.... All in all, i must say that this isn't the 
 greatest Zelda adventure, though it adds to a colection of good ds games or games in general. Not 
 nearly as complex as i'd hope, but just like the graphics you learn to live with it. Anyhow, the 
 game earns a 9/10 in my opinon. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: krystians
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 5, 2007 9:34 am PT
Review:  We have waited way too long for this game to come out. But now that it's here it's safe to say 
 it was all worth the wait. GAME PLAY: The game starts of like any other Zelda with Link possessing 
 3 heart containers, and him having to go on an adventure of some sort. In PH Link sets sail to 
 rescue Tetra who has be trapped upon the Ghost Ship. With the help of his amnesiac fairy, and a 
 cowardly sailer, Link sails the sea looking for sea charts, treasure, uncharted islands, and of 
 course the Ghost Ship. CONTROL: One of the things about this game that you will notice is the control 
 scheme is next to perfect. You can literally drink a coffee with one hand and play with the other. 
 It's so good that I'll stop here, there is nothing more to say. GRAPHICS: All DS games should be 
 labeled based on PH. The graphics are super! Everything from pots, water, dungeons, to trees are 
 very clear.
  
  This Zelda take the rank of one of my favorite games. If you don't have it yet, please stop reading 
 and GO GET IT! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Gra_ham_man5
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 23, 2008 2:38 pm PT
Review:  First off, I'd like to inform the reader that this review may not be as complicated and in-depth 
 as you may be looking for, but it definitely will include the information you'll need. When I first 
 heard the announcement that a Zelda game was finally coming to Nintendo's top selling hand-held 
 system I was jumping for joy and overly filled with glee. When "The Legend of Zelda: Minish Cap" 
 was released on the GBA many people were, once again, disappointed with the "childish" graphics. 
 However, these graphics ARE back. If you literally hated Minish Cap and its graphically similar 
 predecessor, "The Legend of Zelda: Wind Waker", then you may also be offended by Phantom Hourglasses 
 "childish" graphics. Personally, I love these graphics, and the water colored design of Wind Waker 
 left inspiration on many other games in the near future such as "Viewtiful Joe" and even the award-winning 
 "Okami". Otherwise, if you don't mind the graphics or you're like me and you love them, then visually, 
 Phantom Hourglass is the best looking game on the DS so far. It even surpasses "Chocobo Tales", 
 which in my opinion, was the best looking game on the DS until Phantom Hourglasses release. Next 
 is the game-play. All I can say is "WOW!" How innovative can you get? This is also probably the 
 best game so far on the DS in how it uses the DS capabilities to its fullest. Whether you draw 
 out a line of where you want your boomerang to go or how you slash through numerous types of enemies 
 with the touch of the screen, this game has it all, literally! However, this may not be for everyone 
 once again. Most people will be expecting the typical d-pad functionality... but unfortunately 
 in their cases... they will be extremely out of luck. The entire games control scheme is touch 
 based, so in other words, anyone looking for that traditional Zelda feel will find themselves with 
 more of "Twilight Princess" on the Wii experience. Lastly, the sound quality is excellent. nothing 
 new, but still excellent. It has many of the different Zelda songs we have come to love and adore 
 as well as the typical sword clangs, battle cries, and other effects that are present in the typical 
 Zelda game. Unfortunately, there is STILL no voice acting... but it isn't hard to tell what a character 
 is thinking or how they are saying something due to the amazing variety of facial expressions.
 
  
  In the end, The Legend of Zelda: Phantom Hourglass is a spectacular game with amazing graphics, 
 innovative controls, and excellent sound. Normally I would have given a little information on the 
 story, but I'd like to leave that up to the person who buys the game so they can discover it on 
 their own. The games lovable characters, great replay value, and even on-line multi-player also 
 make it a great addition to anyones DS collection. Actually, to be dead honest, I wouldn't be amazed 
 if we have the "Nintendo DS Game of the Year" on our hands. I'm sure Gamespot won't hesitate to 
 make the same decision. So all in all, I give this game a 9.5 out of 10. - Graphics: 10 - Gameplay: 
 10 - Sound: 8 ~ Total: 9.5/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DavidRswii
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 4, 2007 9:13 pm PT
Review:  Well its finally here and now u can get your hands on it. The story begins with a quick run back 
 of what happened in Wind Waker so if u didn't play Wind Waker then this game will explain everything 
 t u. After the story Link, Tetra, and the pirates are on the search for a ghost ship they find it 
 and Tetra jumps over (she is thinking theres treasure so thats why) she screams, Link jumps and he 
 slips off and now Link and Tetra are lost. Link shows up on Mercay Island and he is woken up by 
 a fairy named Ciela who sounds strangely like Navi from Ocriana of time. An it goes from there. The 
 gameplay is very fun and responsive honestly I though this game was gonna be with clunky controls 
 but thats not the case the game controls exceptionaly well. The Graphics are pretty impressive for 
 a DS game there like nothing I've ever seen. The sound is great but its not that loud so it might 
 be better if u out on the DS headset or some ear phones. The game cost 35 bucks plus tax so this 
 game will probobly cost u 37 something now is it worth it... YES this game is worth the money. Now 
 for the bad... the Wi-Fi is not that great to tell u the truth I don't really like online play its 
 not really fun. Also wheres my freakin Master Sword eh oh well, also back to online if ur buying 
 this game for online then well u might be disappointed but I didn't even know it had online so 
 I bought the game for the story. I would give this game 9.8 but I can't so I'll settle by giving 
 this game a 9.5 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Darkkend
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 4, 2007 6:33 pm PT
Review:  This zelda game as you can see from the art style has to do with windwaker. Actually it's suppose 
 to be right after windwaker and zelda has forsaken her life as a princess and has become a pirate 
 with link and the gang. Your off again saving zelda (kind of like how mario is alwasy saving peach) . 
 The boss battles are great in this game because it utilizes both of the ds's screens which makes 
 every boss fight fun and different from any other on the ds. You move link around with the stylus 
 and attack with the stylus, carve the path for the boomerang to follow, etc. I kind of wish you 
 didn't have to use the stylus because sometimes link attacks when your trying to move, or goes 
 off a cliff, really just little things like that will tick you off. Also despite what all my friends 
 think I say the rolling stucks because most of the time you can never get link to roll were you 
 want him to. After a while you get used to the little things like that and over look them, especially 
 when the graphics are as great as this game. I think the multiplayer is pretty fun when about you 
 and your buddy play against each other, it's way better than the online play because you can talk 
 and interact with your friends. Overall this is a game that every ds owner should buy since it 
 really shows what the ds can pull off, looks like this is another great one nintendo. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DSgamer64
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 4, 2007 6:18 pm PT
Review:  It has been a few years since Nintendo released a handheld Zelda game, the last being the rather 
 disappointing Minish Cap but Link has returned in an all new adventure. Artistically the game is 
 obviously influenced on the graphical style of Wind Waker for the GameCube, which does give Phantom 
 Hourglass an advantage graphically over other current 3D DS games. The top down view is typical 
 of handheld Zelda games but at the same time the game is colourful and vibrant, much like Wind 
 Waker.
  
  Phantom Hourglass is a sequal to Wind Waker and takes place a number of years after the events 
 of Wind Waker in another land on the gigantic ocean that was once Hyrule. Link is on a quest to 
 save a girl who has been abducted by unknown creatures on the Ghost Ship. So you set sail with 
 a character named Linebeck, a sailor who has some problems with fear. Linebeck allows you to use 
 his ship which is controlled by plotting courses using the touch screen, when you gain the canon, 
 you can tap the screen to fire it. Thankfully the sailing is less painful, due to not having wind 
 since you get a motor powered boat, plus travelling is twice as fast as well.
  
  The game is controlled with the touch screen, you use the stylus to move, roll and attack as well 
 as controlling weapons. You swipe to swing your sword, draw a quick circle around Link in order 
 to do a spin attack, or basic sword attacks can be done by tapping the enemy. But there is much 
 more to Phantom Hourglass then just running around killing enemies, the puzzles like all Zelda 
 games can be somewhat of a challenge, some players may find them easy, others will find the Temple 
 of the Ocean King to be frustrating as you keep revisiting it in the game.
  
  A draw back is the short single player, however you can customize your ship as well as battle friends 
 online, it would have been fun to have something similar to Four Swords from the remake of A Link 
 to the Past for the GBA though. Nintendo has brought out a fantastic game that is a lot of fun 
 and much more engaging then Wind Waker was. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ViVi110
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 4, 2007 5:58 pm PT
Review:  *SPOILERS*
  
  From the time it has been released on the NES The legend of Zelda has given us the same fun gameplay 
 time after time after time again. That's the thing. A Zelda can be nearly the same as the last 
 Zelda but it's still a great game. That changes now. Zelda Phantom hourglass has now set a new 
 standard for the series and I hope future Zelda games will be like it and mix around with the formula 
 a bit.
  
  The game starts out directly where Wind Waker left off with Link and the pirates looking for a 
 new Hyrule . Well, I guess they lost interest because Tetra decided to go looking for a ghost ship 
 full of treasures (greedy pirates) . Well as you might of guessed, everything goes wrong. Tetra 
 goes on the ghost ship and screams for help which sends Link running after her. He falls and lands 
 in the Ocean, losing all his abilities and items from the last game.
  
  Now there has been alot of worrying between Zelda enthusiasts that all touch control wil be uncomfortable 
 and will just ruin the game. No need to worry, this game handles great. Link runs to where ever 
 you put your stylus and hits what ever you poke, slash, or spin at. There are more lovely things 
 that go along with this control, like being able to control your boomerang by drawing a line of 
 where you want it to go and being able draw important things on your map at any time.
  
  Also the sailing has improved greatly. I was one of the few people who liked sailing in Wind Waker 
 but the game has redone sailing completely. well, actually you have a boat with a motor so I guess 
 it's boating instead of sailing. Anyway you know just draw a route of where you want to go and 
 your ship goes there. There is also alot to do when boating now. You can look for treasure, fish 
 or just kill the countless enemys that are determined to destroy your ship.
  
  My only problem with this game is the music. They redid some music from WW but alot of the music 
 is just redone from LTTP which makes me a little upset because the sound in WW was just stellar.
 
  
  So if your looking for a great, no, Amazing game for your DS, look no further, this is it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: madogmgd
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 4, 2007 2:19 pm PT
Review:  Incredible describes how this game is and incredible it is
  the controls the fighting the graphics the puzzle solving
  all work together and perform amazingly 
 a proper and truly
  best sequel to any Zelda game in the Zelda universe to one of the
  greatest Zelda games ever made. The game is controlled
  only through stylus but once you play 
 this game you will think
  how you got along through all Zelda games with a controller
  there simple easy and fun the game makes use of some of the
  ds's features such as the mic to 
 blow out candles or the touch screen
  to draw clues on your map and sleep mode (you will find out later I wont
  say to spoil it) overall 
 this games great I am proud to own this game.
  and its worth every penny I would buy it even if it was
  60 70 or 80 dollars it is way worth 
 the money and worth the time
  you will have fun with this game if you are a Zelda fan or new to the series
  or never played 
 a Zelda game in your life dont think
  just buy it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ps2robot
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 4, 2007 9:40 am PT
Review:  This game uses the ds to its fullest you only use the touch screen no buttons. I know you think 
 the controls will be difficult WRONG. They are a little difficult at first but you get use to them.
 
  
  Single player: Hmmm very awesome bunches of puzzles, cool fighting sytem, you get to go to diferent 
 places in a boat, and buy stuff sell stuff so on.
  
  Wifi: IN MY OPINION....... THIS IS THE BEST WIFI GAME FOR DS....... If you like capture the flag you 
 should like this.
  
  sound: average not much music kinda all the same music but still the music is kinda enjoyable
 
  
  graphics: Im compareing the graphics to nintendo dogs 10.00
  
  controls: This game uses the touch screen to the fullest very comtorable and easy to get used to
 
  
  Difficulty: Well a lot of people I mean a lot think this game is short and easy Well I disagree 
 tottally I think its hard and long
  
  story: Ok but its kinda like pirates of the caribean
  
  game: If you like a challenge and a game 
 that uses the touch screen to the fullest and a game with awesome wifi battles that consist of 
 strategy buy this game but if you like using the buttons and you like your wifi battles actiony 
 then rent this game........ so my opinion I think that everyone should try this game 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mattmaul5488
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 4, 2007 6:31 am PT
Review:  The Legend of Zelda: Phantom Hourglass takes place right where Windwaker left off.
  You start of sailing around with Tetra in search of the Ghost Ship .Nothing can go wrong here right? Well 
 you eventually find the ship and Tetra jumps on to check it out and gets captured. So Link being 
 the brave hero that he is jumps in after her, but gets knocked out and ends up on and island. He 
 is awakened by a fairy named Celia who will be your main guide through the game. Your main objective 
 here is to find sea charts and unlock the powers of the Sea King to help you locate the ship and 
 rescue Tetra....
  
  The gameplay in Phantom Hourglass really shines.. Your stylus is the main control here ... Movement 
 is very simple. Just touch a place on the DS you wanna go and he starts running. Combat is a mere 
 stroke of the stylus, and a circle around Link for his famous spin attack. Sailing makes a return 
 from Windwaker, except this time you draw a route you want to take and the ship takes off. You do 
 have some control afterwords, such as stopping the ship, jumping and firing the cannon when you get 
 it. It is all very easy and very fun to do. The characters you run into in the game are all very 
 interesting and fun to talk to, you may even get a laugh out of it, when I hit a new island I make 
 sure to talk to everyone there, just to see what they say.
  
  The puzzles on Phantom Hourglass on alot of fun and sometimes real head scratchers, there was one 
 were I all I thought was how did they come up with that ?. Most puzzles come down to drawing markings 
 on your map of cerain objectives all tied into the puzzle. Drawing is really the main focus of 
 the game from the puzzles to sailing, even down to signing your name when you get mail. The sound 
 effects and music are really enjoyable in this game. All the chimes and music from the other Zelda 
 games are of course here, and as always great. There is some new music and it's really great to 
 listen to, kinda makes you relax when you're stuck on some of the brain busters they call puzzles.
 
  
  The graphics are a real treat. Characters and ships look and move great, and the environments are 
 fun and colorful. It's fun to just sail around because everything is so cool to look at..
  
  In the end there are just to many great things to say about his game, I can't think of one problem 
 with this game. Whether your a hardcore Zelda fan or just someone looking for a good DS game, you 
 owe it to yourself to see what a game on a handheld can really be.
  
  Thanks for reading. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: blacklotus218
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 3, 2007 7:37 pm PT
Review:  This game is truely amazing and if you have a ds you must have this game. if you like zelda or 
 not this game will make you appreciate the fact you own a ds. It takes the touch screen to the 
 next level, the whole game is based off it, and it does a ohh so perfect job at it. I like it so 
 much im already hoping for a sequal and i have yet to beat this game. The temple puzzles a challenging 
 with out being frustrating to all hell like some of the previous zeldas. It may be a tad easy for 
 some people, but an easy game isn't always that bad, whats the main fact is that is so fun you 
 will be begging for more. THIS IS A MASTER PIECE. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: KenpachiSama
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 3, 2007 4:53 pm PT
Review:  I won't make this long, but I wanted to go ahead and give my 2-cents about the absolute greatest 
 game to grace the Nintendo DS. With this game being announced SO long ago, my anticipation grew 
 so badly that I had to import it from Japan in June to get myself over the wait. Even though my 
 Japanese is rusty, it was worth every penny bringing that pretty product over here and getting 
 an early play of it.
  
  The Legend of Zelda: Phantom Hourglass brings us back to a time of sailing. Yes, sailing. One of 
 the areas that made the Windwaker such a phenomenal console game was ported to this handheld excellently. 
 The visuals were stunning, the boss battles were of the top 3 of all time (Zelda-wise) , the use 
 of the stylus was a pleasure, and sailing was a breeze (no pun intended) . Phantom Hourglass brought 
 an aspect of Zelda that is neglected in titles such as Ocarina of Time, Majora's Mask, and Twilight 
 Princess - it brought back the fun of the Zelda franchise. The comedy is hilarious, and the characters 
 are very memorable, much like from the Windwaker. The story was great, as it was a sequel to another 
 fantastic game (Windwaker) , and completing the game was a task that left you smiling - you saved 
 the day once again. My only reason for knocking the score down to a 9 is because of the length 
 of the game (including side quests) . I realize that it is on a handheld and a lot of the space 
 was used up on graphics and in depth detail, but at the same time, I was expecting a Zelda -lengthened 
 game. It's nitpicky, but with that and it being a sequel, I just couldn't give the game a 10. The 
 online multiplayer is also a fun addition (very PacMan-like) , but it definitely isn't enough to 
 alter the score of the game. All around, this is a beautiful addition to the DS library, and anyone 
 who is foolish enough to not play it, I can only feel sorry for you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Valchieor
Rating: 8.5
Date: Oct 3, 2007 4:13 pm PT
Review:  (Review based off of first 10 minutes of gameplay. NO SPOILERS) This game will bring you what you 
 would expect from any other Zelda game: A great RPG with a well-made storyline, interesting characters, 
 settings, and a plot to boot. It presents unique controls and new content that ensures to not disappoint. 
 Story: The story continues where it left off. Zelda and Link sail off in search of new land with 
 the pirate crew. They end up running into a ghost ship (not the same one from LoZ: WW) along the 
 way. Zelda, as ambitious as she is, tries to jump onto the ship to search for its treasure, but 
 finds herself abducted. Link attempts a fast rescue but fails to hang onto the ledge and, consequently, 
 falls into the sea. Link later finds himself on an island where he meets a talking faerie. This 
 is where your journey begins.
  
  Controls: The controls have been made very simple as it makes primary use of the touchpad most 
 of the time. You hold the direction in where you want to go, draw fast lines for sword slashes, 
 touch doors to open them, direct the path of your boomerang, and much more.
  
  Gameplay: Gameplay is pretty straightforward. You first get your sword to hack enemies to death. 
 Dungeon puzzles are as complex as always. And, sailing has never been more interesting than ever 
 before. It's a great follow-up to the Wind Waker, and ensures enjoyment of many hours of playing. 
 If you wish, you can play battle mode which has you clash with others around the world for Triforce 
 Gems. Definitely a game worth bringing with you out the door. (Forgot it's a hand-held console?) 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Patorishia
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 3, 2007 2:48 pm PT
Review:  There is no way I could have been disappointed with the game. I was anticipating a real classic 
 for the DS system!! And here it is! I loved Wind Waker, it's probably my favorite of the series. 
 And so I'm ecstatic to have PH as a sequel. The plot is intriguing and the adventure is awesome, 
 with more pirate flair!
  
  The touch-screen controls aren't bad at all, it is simply that my hand cramps up after a few hours. 
 The stylus controls are very smooth &amp; responsive, which surprised me. It's actually quite simple 
 once you get the handle of it. PH takes full advantage of the DS, and it's good to finally see 
 a game that uses all of it's features to the best of its abilities. It's a great example as to 
 how awesome the DS really is. The sound is crystal clear and excitingly reminiscent. The graphics 
 are absolutely excellent, despite the black outlines. I'd say it's very close to being the best 
 looking DS game out there, as of yet.
  
  The game, overall, is amazing. I recommend it to anyone who wants a good adventure RPG full of 
 cool puzzles, interesting plot details, character development, and new innovative controls. It's 
 an awesome addition to the pile of games for DS, and it's a top favorite of mine. It's well worth 
 the money, and if you have some extra cash, the Collectors Edition Game Guide is of great quality 
 with gilded pages, a snazzy bookmark and poster map. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Valramil
Rating: 6
Date: Oct 3, 2007 10:18 am PT
Review:  First off let me say that my opinion is entirely my own and I do not need people flaming me about 
 it. At first glance, PH looks great. The graphics are lush and beautiful, the puzzles are plentiful, 
 the sounds is nice and fits with the environment, and the combat is different and fun. Upon closer 
 inspection, however, the graphics remain great, other than Link's horribly done face, the puzzles 
 are simple and obvious, they replace the historic dun dun dun duuuuuun for some other random jig 
 for some items you get (they still have it, but its alot faster and in a different tone, so its 
 hard to recognize) , it begins to get annoying that you always have to press on the ds to do absolutely 
 anything (you cannot use the A button to scroll through text, or the dpad to move, or etc) , and 
 the game itself is very short. A few of these things help remind me that the zelda series is directed 
 at an audience of EVERYONE, so it makes sense that the puzzles and such will be simple so that 
 kids of a younger age can also play. It is a more or less fun game, but the occasional thing here 
 and there doesn't put Phantom Hourglass on my tops list. Again, this is my own opinion, and if 
 you do not like it, then please write your own review. Cheers. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TENTHROW2
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 3, 2007 9:02 am PT
Review:  I'm by no means a nintendo fanboy, or a Zelda protagonist, but these games are ALWAYS worth playing. 
 And this game jumps very close to the top of my all time favorite Zelda games instantly.
  
  Whats even better about this game is that you get this gorgeous, huge, exciting, challenging game, 
 on your DS! portable gaming is getting better and better and nothing beats Phantom Hourglass for 
 gaming on the go. Whether you need just a few minutes fix, or to kill a couple hours - this game 
 is portable bliss.
  
  The controls are done so well it's scary. It makes you wonder why other DS games have had issues 
 with the stylus. It becomes second nature almost instantly. I love the boomerang control, so intuitive 
 and so much fun.
  
  By now you should already know the story, and it's classic zelda gameplay.  
 - it's all here. The stylus just helps bring it a new dimension.
  
  Overall, I highly recommend this game - even if for whatever reason your not a zelda fan - this 
 game deserves a run on your DS and is well worth the money. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: _AbBaNdOn
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 3, 2007 7:14 am PT
Review:  If your worried about the stylus only controls like I was, dont be. Its all pretty easy and combat 
 is exciting. For things like boomerangs and bombs using a stylus gives you even more control. Being 
 able to mark up maps yourself is also cool and when you are done with your marks you can erase 
 them. They managed to use cell shading on the graphics which is pretty amazing. This is going to 
 be another awesome adventure. I dont see how it would be possable to go back to landmass only version 
 of zelda. Unlike Wind Waker where islands and boats were actual sized when your playing Phantom 
 Hourglass and sailing around the oceans the islands look tiny. But then when you dock with them 
 they turn into these pretty huge environments and if you include the dungeons they become even 
 bigger
  
  I could go on and on about all the things this game has in it and how awesome it is and im sure 
 thats what everyone elses review will go over but I just wanted to let people know that the controls 
 are great and that the game is a must own. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Loopuze
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 3, 2007 2:45 am PT
Review:  Ok, first off, despite all the hype, I went into playing this Zelda with just a little skepticism 
 and a tiny bit of doubt. My fears were soon assauged after I found I hadn't put the DS down at 
 all for the first 4 hours. Unlike Twilight Princess, where it took me a while to feel comfortable, 
 and I felt like I was HAVING to do things (Don't get me wrong, I think TP is a great game) , Phantom 
 Hourglass creates a wonderful, enticing world that makes you WANT to do things. It's hard to put 
 the game's appeal into words, but it's just plain fun, not to mention it squeezes a more impressive, 
 smooth and vibrant fully 3D world out of the DS then I would have previously thought possible. 
 I haven't beaten the game yet, but the farther I get, the more impressed I am with how detailed 
 and high quality everything looks, for a DS title especially. I've read some reviews, including 
 GS's, who's only minor complaint was the Ocean King's place. Honestly, it didn't bug me, it was 
 a little more challenging than some of the other parts of the game, and as for the repetitive nature 
 of it, I just chalked that up to more challenge. At least you get to see something new every time 
 you have to go :) Despite the previous person's review, I have to say what I liked most right away 
 was a real feeling of orginality. That is, originality for Zelda. The touch controls have a lot 
 to do with it, and after a few minutes, you're dragging link around like a dream. Farily linear 
 though it may be, it's just free roaming enough that you don't feel constrained, as a good Zelda 
 game should... In summary, for me, this Zelda pulled off what Zelda hasn't pulled off in a while... it 
 does the same old thing we love, and it makes it feel exciting and new. I'm giving it a near-perfect 
 score because I can only think of one aspect of the game I wouldn't mind being a little different, 
 and that's the challenge level. The combat and dungeons and early bosses are just a TAD easy, but, 
 that complaint is dwarfed next to the wonderful achievement this game is on the DS, and besides, 
 it's not THAT easy :) . Get it, you won't regret it, as they say.
  
  Happy Gaming! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Karma_Slave
Rating: 5
Date: Oct 4, 2007 10:00 am PT
Review:  I find the game to have bad controls. The reasons are that you're supposed to do everything with 
 the stylus in a game with a little too many things to control. The first thing I noticed was that 
 you walk slower the closer you put the pen to the character; and the closer you tap, the slower 
 you walk, and that is -really- slow. So being right-handed as me, I'd cover up the right half of 
 the screen with my hand if I want to run to the left. Why not put in options like always run ? 
 I'm sure you need to sneak by some monster or similar at one point of the game, but that day, that 
 sorrow as we say here.
  And most of all, it feels like they've been forced to do everything with the stylus, just because 
 they can. They could simply have put in an option to control movement with the D-pad , making you 
 use the stylus when needed.
  
  With the current controls, I've often found myself in this kind of situation - I stand close to 
 a rock that I want to lift up and throw. By clicking the rock, Link moves closer to it.. but since 
 I'm already close to it, he moves really slow. So first to get there as fast as possible, I must 
 tap the edge of the screen to make him run to the rock and -then- click the rock. Why not make 
 it so that clicking anywhere on the screen will make Link run there, no matter how far away or 
 close it is? Or at least give that option. I couldn't play Zelda Windwaker because of a similar 
 thing - I couldn't invert the camera. Such a simple and to me obvious option to give the player 
 didn't exist. So, I constantly died or looked into walls and such, because my stupid brain couldn't 
 understand why the camera looked to the left when I pulled the stick to the right. That's the reason 
 to why you have such options in a game. Sure, anybody could get used to any control scheme given 
 enough time, but if you're really used to one thing from playing other similar games for several 
 years, it gets difficult to adapt and you may ask Is this game worth the time and practice I have 
 to put into it in order to turn the camera right? - Is this game worth the time and practice I 
 have to put into it in order to move around as I want? . A simple way to avoid that question is 
 to implement a pair of simple options. Just look at your standard 21st century First-Person Shooter 
 and tell me one that doesn't have Invert Mouse (or Invert Y-axis ) .
  
  Another thing I've noticed in the later Zelda games is that they tend to get overly pedagogic. 
 They want to explain everything to you, even the simplest of things, like *game pauses* Look a 
 chest! Did you know that you can open the chest by clicking on it? Let's try it out! I wonder what 
 could be inside, teehee! 
  Now, as a young child, I never had much problems with the first Zelda game, nor Zelda 3; it took 
 me a while to play because I had to find the solutions to things out myself, and when I did, I 
 felt like the king of the world... or at least my sofa/bed in which I was sitting. A king nonetheless.
 
  Today, you don't get to figure things out before someone or something pauses the game for you 
 and hints (read: spells it out for you) what you should do. It feels more like being given a chore 
 handed to you, that you must complete, more than being presented a strange situation that you need 
 to analyze, understand and solve yourself.
  
  A good example is the first temple (which wasn't really a temple, just two rooms) where the floors 
 were alterning dark and pretty-colored. First the villagers say that the temple is cursed somehow 
 and that it'll drain your life. Then, a ghost inside tells you that it had drained his life until 
 he died. Ok, I think, maybe just standing around will drain my life - creepy, I better hurry then. 
 Then, a third time in the next room, the game pauses and I get it spelled out to me - stand in 
 the dark areas and you'll slowly die, and stand in the pretty colored zones and you'll regenerate 
 . Sure, this is the first moments of the game, but surely you can have some more faith in your 
 players' intelligence, right?
  
  Look at the first Zelda game. You start on your own, with no sword nor shield, with 4 possible 
 ways to go. North, East and West, and then there is a cave. Where do most people go first? Into 
 the mysterious cave, of course! And once inside, you get the sword, and you can take on the bad 
 guys. You can choose to take other paths in the beginning without your sword, but you'll probably 
 die and start over again and try a new route; but the thing is that you'll probably go into the 
 alluring cave at first anyway. That is good game design - using distractions and discrete hints 
 to where you want the player to go.
  
  The characters of Phantom Hourglass are painfully predictable and one-dimensional. Hello, I'm annoying 
 and a coward but I'll deny it. ... Hello, I'm the wise guy who'll treat you like a kid, tell you 
 not to go, but somehow I'll see pureness and candy in your heart and help you anyways. ... Hello, 
 I'm a bad guy, I'm bad. And of course, throw in an ounce of wacky into the mix. I was hoping wacky 
 was dead, but apparently not.
  
  And of course, they think, what sort of temples shall we use... hm, yes, we use the elements! Like 
 fire and such! That's original. Why not create something new? Like... the temple of the stars, 
 or the temple of doors, or something... that will make my imagination start running and make me 
 actually interested in going there and explore. No, fire is good. Seriously - I have no interests 
 in exploring that place. Been there far too many times already.
  
  But some would cry But this is the core of Zelda! well, sure; a classic Zelda game seems to be 
 like this. But, they've dared to take a step in a new direction once by going into 3D with Ocarina 
 of Time and most would say that it rocked. And don't forget Zelda 2 which was a platformer/worldmap/RPG-mix 
 - a very different game as most 2 are in a series. Good or not, I don't know, but it's still something 
 new. I'd love to see them take another step soon, to try to keep the spirit of Zelda but at the 
 same time re-invent it, suprise me, make me want to explore the worlds and talk to the people in 
 it. I think they did take a step in the right direction with Twilight Princess, with a lot deeper 
 and interesting characters and environments, so apparently it's not impossible.
  
  Let's just not hope a step forward for these game developers mean turn-based fighting and random 
 battles - but it wouldn't suprise me.
  
  To conclude; when I've played Phantom Hourglass some more it might turn out to be a decent game, 
 but certainly nothing more than that. I like it a little so far, but the fact that the controls 
 aren't really good and that it feels like I'm doing old chores... drags the score down a lot for 
 me.
  
  EDIT: As I mentioned, I expected myself to raise my score a bit, and that's what I've done. From 
 4.0, to 5.0, because it's not a rotten game, and at times, it's quite fun. But in order for me 
 to keep my sanity, I look away when there are dialogue and click past it as fast as I can because 
 I don't want things spelled out to me. One big plus is that unnecessary cut-scenes can be skipped. 
 There also was one small puzzle that gave me a slight mental orgasm, and not to say too much, it 
 was about a sacred crest.
  
  (This is my second attempt at a review, since the previous one got deleted. Apparently, I was trolling, 
 and I admit that after reviewing the ToS again I can understand why someone felt that, and for 
 that I cincerely apologize. But don't mistake a bad review for your favorite game for trolling 
 - it's simply someone else's opinion.
  
  Some seem to think I hate the DS, or hate Zelda, and even that I don't own a DS nor Zelda. Sorry 
 to break it to you, but I do own a DS and have plenty of favorite games on it, and I love the Zelda 
 series - just not what they've done to it with Windwaker and now Phantom Hourglass. Gladly, the 
 Windwaker theme is a side-track and not their main way to go.) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bobafett12
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 2, 2007 8:47 pm PT
Review:  This game when I started playing was just so amazing in graphics for the Ds it was just like wow 
 so wonderful and refreshing the gameplay is awsome to the touchscreen movement and fighting just 
 makes the game so much for fun and challenging beleive me im an old fashioned zelda guy played 
 from the first game on Nes and everygame after that this ones amazing some fans might not like 
 the new movement and fighting controls but its great awsome story great characters you meet dungeons 
 are a challenge its overall a great game probably my favorite Ds game out right now still have 
 alot left to play on this must buy for Ds owners! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Nintendude4
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 2, 2007 6:19 pm PT
Review:  This game is a must have for any Zelda fan or DS fans. It picks up straight where Wind Waker left 
 off with Link and Tetra traveling together. It even has some music from Wind Waker in the opening 
 movie. The touch screen controls are GREAT. The game looks great, sounds great, is great. You can 
 do anything in this game. You can fish, salvage treasure, dig, explore, fight, flee, basically 
 anything. The story is very interesting and as soon as you start, you'll be Link, not play as him. 
 Personally, I love this game. I gave it a perfect 10 for a reason. For $35, it is well worth it. 
 Get it. Now. You'll be glad I told you to. Seriously I have been playing it for the last 5 hours 
 at least. Non stop too. Just go get it, it's awesome. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Dalithril
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 2, 2007 5:06 am PT
Review:  This game was so awesome. The stylus movement was completely good, i didn't experience any bugs 
 of sort at all. It doesn't cause lag, plus it has a very cute graphics for a DS game. Def. falls 
 under the list of classic Zelda games. If ya want to get a game thats always fun, requires some 
 thinking as well as portable, this is the game for you! it's just right imo, the quiz isnt hard 
 at all -contradicts my statement on thinking- but it's overall sweet gameplay, enjoyable, somewhat 
 good graphics in DS-terms! This is my most favorite DS games of all times, so if you ever wanna 
 get hardcore and badass with a DS, this is the game. 2 thumbs up! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: XGAMER15
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 1, 2007 8:49 pm PT
Review:  The Legend of Zelda-Phantom Hourglass Although this new Zelda DS title didn't have as much hype 
 as proposed it definitely got me hyped up. I just had to see it so I ordered a Japanese import 
 copy which equals no story and lots of guess and check. But now I own the English version so I 
 can replay the game for the story. I can honestly say that the controls are everything and more 
 I expected from Nintendo. The movement can get a little confusing at times because of the weapon 
 switching but you will get used to it. It will get annoying when you accidentally jump off a cliff 
 and land either out of your way or in a pit of lava causing you to lose a heart, not to mention 
 how difficult it is to perform a somersault. But lets stop being pessimistic and get to the goods, 
 the innovative weapons use every aspect of the touch screen. And you thought Wii blew buttons off 
 the map? You don't even need a single button on the DS. How nice? Now to the gameplay can you say 
 ADDICTING!? Chances are you won't be able to put this game down. I have to constantly change position 
 because my arm goes numb from playing so long probably due to lack of circulation. I recommend 
 putting your DS on a table and playing because you don't exactly need a button and this way you 
 can casually play without holding your DS. The learning curve depends on the person but on average 
 you will be able to play fine in 15 minutes and master the controls soon after. The game is also 
 a very expansive title for a handheld and offers 40+ hours of play depending on your style of play. 
 This is definitely a buy no doubt about it. There is no game that is worth 35 bucks at this time 
 more than Z: PH. It can bring any first time player into the Zelda story and leave them with hours 
 of entertainment will not be soon regretted. Its a buy so get off your lazy arse (yah I said it..) 
 and get this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: phantom4567
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 1, 2007 1:09 pm PT
Review:  Since they've announced a new Zelda game for the Nintendo DS, I just bursted with excitement, especially 
 since they brought back good'ol googly-eyed Link from the Windwaker game. With all previews, trailers 
 and gameplay, I just knew that this game was gonna be awesome, and guess what, I was right!
  
  Beautiful controls, terrific use of the touch screen, and with also some pretty good graphics 
 makes it a new way to experience the Zelda series, and it actually succeded! I love the way that 
 you can draw things on your map with the stylus so that you won't be able to forget stuff that 
 your supposes to be doing, its very useful when solving a lot of puzzles in different dungeons.
 
  
  Nice story line, really tricky dungeons (some annoying ones) that involve some backtracking later 
 in the story and awesome boss battles makes it a game totally worth buying!
  
  WI-FI usage is somewhat not very entertaining, but its actually fun when playing with a lot of 
 your friends that are beside you, or online. Which is a neat addition to the game.
  
  Did I forget to mention how awesome this game looks? I recommend it to all Zelda fans and for every 
 DS player alive! Great job Nintendo, keep at it! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: shadokill9
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 1, 2007 12:32 pm PT
Review:  Amazing, a true zelda game to its fullest, a must have for everyone. If you have DS buy it, if 
 u dont have a DS get one and buy it. It's well worth the money, you won't be disappointed. The 
 storyline just works so well with everything, its comparable to Ocarina of Time if it were on DS. 
 I'm not going to ruin anything for anyone who reads this and hasnt beaten it yet, but expect things 
 you've never seen in any other zelda game. Phantom hourglass causes you to think in a whole new 
 way and I'm sure that some of these puzzles will be incorperated into future games. I would rate 
 it 11/10 but sadly that's impossible. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nyhitmens911
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 1, 2007 12:07 pm PT
Review:  for those of you that are still waiting for GS's review and cant wait to hear from someone that 
 has played the game.. well here you go. I live in NYC so i was able to pick up a copy of the LOZ: PH 
 this morning from the Nintendo World Store in Rockefellar center. ( I actually waited outside the 
 store for a good 30 min till they opened) . I've had other daily chores to do besides play video 
 games, but, i still managed to play what i think was about 25 minutes of it. First of all the graphics 
 look very good, it really pushes the DS's CPU to the max. the gameplay controls are simply AMAZING. 
 trust me you will be surprised as to how tight these controls are. it will make you wonder why 
 we spent all these years playing with our thumbs and fingers when this couldve been done. its kinda 
 of like Animal Crossing: WW. the puzzles are great too. i have yet to do a boss fight but iam sure 
 it wont dissapoint. the game just looks GREAT imo.
  
  so in conclusion, (since i havent played much) if you are hesitating or reluctant to buy this game 
 becuz of graphics or controls, please RECONSIDER, as you will miss out on an outstanding game if 
 you dont get this. Overall this is one of the coolest zelda games to date. i have to give this 
 a 9.7 for the meantime since i have yet to continue on this game but from what i hav played so 
 far thats the score i will give it. i doubt that this will go any lower. Are you still reading 
 this???? you gotta get out the door and get this game. i think its the best DS game out to date. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sypher455
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 1, 2007 11:59 am PT
Review:  seeing a lighthearted cel shaded windwaker-style zelda game running fluidly in the palm of my hands 
 makes me all happy inside. this game is just brilliaint, and is probably my new favorite ds game. 
 things it has going for it: 1. it looks great, 2. it's fun, 3. it plays brilliantly, and the all-stylus 
 gameplay is executed brilliantly, 4. it's quirky and lighthearted, 5. its zelda. handheld zelda. 
 if you own a ds, you'll buy this, if you like zelda, you'll buy this, if you were thinking about 
 buying a ds, this is another reason to add to your list. the multiplayer is fun, the game moves 
 along well, everything is just refreshing and done right. i love it. only thing is some of the 
 story elements are explained in such a short abrupt fashion, or just not explained at all, that 
 its kind of comical, but that falls in to the quirk catagory i listed as a plus. it is funny, but 
 i love this game. its just great. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: matlc1234
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 1, 2007 4:42 am PT
Review:  Superb.......
  When i saw the video, i knew it will be the best...
  The graphic is just amazing! But it kind of shaggy when control the boat in the japan version ,i 
 hope it will be more better in the US version ,the story is kind a good ,it just right, not too 
 hard to play, and not easy to play.
  The Wifi system is all about two player battle each other and it is very fun to play, the wifi connection 
 didn't lag a bit ,but the most best thing is discover a whole new world! There is a really big 
 world in the game and the player can travel through the world on a battleship and you can play 
 it for a real long time. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
