-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: The Legend of Kage 2
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/ds/action/kagedensetsu/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 Challenging, rewarding boss battles.
 Simple but brisk action bolstered by tight play mechanics.
 Achievements that unlock bonus art are a nice touch.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 A few stretches of filler bog down some levels.
 Kage and Chihiro don't play significantly differently from each other.
 Can be beaten in around four hours.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Oct 30, 2008
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 7.5
Critic Score: 7.5, 19 Review (s)
User Score: 7.8, 51 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Taito Corporation
Genre: Action
Date: Oct 8, 2008
ESRB: Everyone

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
The Legend of Kage 2 is a good sequel with great boss battles and plenty of action. 

  Raise your hand if you've spent the last 24 years waiting feverishly for a sequel to The Legend 
 of Kage, an arcade game released by Taito in 1984. Now, keep your hands up if you were an avid-enough 
 fan to know that it's pronounced "kah-geh" and not "cage." For the both of you with your hands 
 still up, good news! Taito has answered your prayers with The Legend of Kage 2 for the Nintendo 
 DS. In fact, this unexpected sequel is good news for anyone looking for swift, straightforward, 
 and decidedly traditional action-platforming, even if the Kage franchise is nowhere on your radar. 

           Complete with washboard abs, Kage has come a long way since his two frames of animation. 

  The original Legend of Kage was notable for its high-flying antics and fluid pace, thanks to the 
 ability to leap screens high, slice through multiple enemies, and deflect shuriken without ever 
 having to stop running. There was very little to it otherwise, however, and it hasn't aged well. 
 The Legend of Kage 2, starring the titular Kage and new heroine Chihiro, retains much of the original 
 game's feel: Both characters can jump unusually high (past the division between the two screens) 
 and mow down most enemies without skipping a beat. However, a bevy of updates and cutscenes that 
 provide a rudimentary story keeps the game from falling into the monotony that the original suffered 
 from in its heyday.  

  The most upfront improvement -- though it has the least impact -- is how the game's level design plays 
 out in conjunction with your abilities. Though you're often greeted with the familiar left-to-right 
 structure, you can often make progress along both higher and lower paths. There's platforming that 
 requires you to use such abilities as running up walls and midair dashing. The controls are almost 
 uniformly tight and responsive, though you might wish for the ability to fully change direction 
 in midair. Bright, colorful visuals and enemy sprites aid playability too, clearly defining where 
 to go next and what to interact with, and helping you think about the best approach to both.  

 
  At the same time, level design is also one of the few spots in which the game stumbles slightly. 
 You'll sometimes find vast expanses of scenery that require little more than just jumping toward 
 the right, and it feels like filler. The levels are at their best when they throw a huge number 
 of enemies your way and let you run from one end of the screen to the other, slicing them up and 
 watching your combo counter rack up the hits.  

  It does pay to run off the beaten path to investigate the occasional nook and cranny, where you'll 
 find health bonuses and, more notably, magic orbs of varying color. These are used in between stages 
 by the game's (fairly basic) magic system and adds a slight level of strategic management. You 
 set the orbs into triangular and diamond-shaped arrangements on a grid, mixing and matching various 
 colors to unlock a variety of spells. So there's some slight experimentation to be had, and the 
 fixed size of the grid limits the number of spells you can activate during any given level. Along 
 with the cutscenes, the magic-creation system offers a brief but welcome respite after each of 
 the game's many intense boss battles.  

  The boss encounters are clearly the stars of the show, throwing zany opponents at you such as an 
 old geezer whose cranium is larger than his body; a disembodied head that vomits shuriken from 
 its mouth; and two demon statues that continually pincer-attack you with devastating spells. Each 
 battle is based on patterns that prove to be tricky, balanced, and enjoyable all at once. You'll 
 rarely, if ever, suffer from unavoidable hits, and the patterns are almost always varied enough 
 such that boss battles never start to feel long in the tooth.  

  You can burn through The Legend of Kage 2 in about four hours with one character, and Kage and 
 Chihiro don't play differently enough from each other to make a second play-through all that different. 
 Each character learns a unique set of new attacks as the game progresses, but between the two these 
 moves end up being different in name only. Both of them obtain the same downward thrust move, for 
 instance. Nevertheless, the game hooks you in other ways. A pseudo-achievements system rewards 
 feats like pulling off a 50-hit combo or literally jumping a thousand times, with very pretty unlockable 
 bonus art. Beating the game also unlocks a Boss Rush mode and a harder difficulty setting for the 
 masochist in you.  

           This old man stores his lighter fluid in that massive cranium. Obviously.      

  The 
 Legend of Kage 2 falls just short of being a great action game; some of the levels could have been 
 made denser, and the core experience longer, and it doesn't really innovate. Still, it's a surprisingly 
 welcome revival thanks to unlockable bonus treats, great bosses, and a worthy modernization of 
 familiar run-and-slash action.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (4 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: minimme
Rating: 8.5
Date: Mar 28, 2009 10:40 pm PT
Review:  What can i say about the Legend of Kage 2. Amazing graphics, cool mini-games and a mind blowing 
 storyline.
  
  Gameplay 5/10
  The gameplay is alright, but i think walking is difficult because you have to press up, down, left 
 and right. There is also an issue with the top screen of the DS part. When I poke it, nothing happens. 
 I believe that most games have this function. A total letdown.
  
  Graphics 1/10
  The graphics in the Legend of Kage 2 are appalling. First of all, there are not real people, they 
 look like picture book people. What do you call it? umm... aniyme. Also, since when was a characters 
 head bigger than its body. Sorely disappointing. 
  
  Music 64.23543534/100
  What can i say. The main sountrack included  
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Krusher26
Rating: 8
Date: Jan 18, 2009 4:08 pm PT
Review:  Legend of Kage 2 is the sequel of the original Legend of Kage from the 80's and challenges one 
 of two playable characters to fight their way through hordes of enemies in order to rescue a girl 
 with special powers. Both characters fight very similarly and are extremely agile from the get-go. 
 At first, the game starts off slow and doesn't seem very hard because of your character's ability 
 to run, jump and slash through enemies rather easily. If you base this game strictly off of the 
 first 2 or 3 stages, you may find yourself uninterested and willing to dump it or disregard it 
 as boring. After the first few stages, though, the difficulty picks up and the action intensifies, 
 especially the boss battles. 
  
  While the action of this game can be rated as fair, the boss battles are some of the toughest around 
 and make the game truly memorable. The final three bosses will provide as much challenge as almost 
 any boss trio from any series ever. The key to beating each boss is the ability to figure out their 
 attack patterns, but even then, the execution must also be next to flawless. This game can be beaten 
 in less than 10 hours but offers much more in terms of action and challenge than what initially 
 appears.
  
  I would rate the overall action of this game a 7.5, but because of the extremely challenging boss 
 battles, I give it an 8. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: EB1089
Rating: 8.5
Date: Oct 23, 2008 8:05 am PT
Review:  The Legend of Kage 2 is a great little game to play in-between bigger games and is probably more 
 fun to play in short bursts rather than plowing through it in a single sitting. Kage 2 is basically 
 a traditional NES-style platformer with updated graphics for the DS's hardware. The story is derivative, 
 employing the standard "good guy must save kidnapped princess from bad guy" premise, but again, 
 Kage 2 maintains the feel of an updated NES-like platformer so the story doesn't detract from the 
 game at all. However, don't blow on the game because you're expecting BioShock or something. The 
 anime artwork and character stills look very nice; the music is entertaining and sets the mood 
 for the game (although it's no monumental score) ; the controls are pretty good. The response can 
 be a teeny bit slow at times but it's nothing that'll hamper your gameplay style. 
  
  The Legend of Kage 2 has excellent replay value. There are two protagonists and have to pick one 
 to play through the game the first time around, in which you'll unlock a Hard Mode and Boss Rush 
 mode (the latter which allows you to fight the game's bosses without going through the levels again) , 
 not to mention you still have the other protagonist to choose from to beat the game again. Whether 
 you meet certain requirements to unlock them, there are 64 pieces of artwork you can obtain (e. g. 
 for doing things like blocking 24 shruiken in a row) . Getting excellent scores in levels also unlocks 
 special moves and abilities for your character as well as finding orbs to create magical powers 
 to use in-game. Other than that, you can always go back to previous levels and try beating your 
 highest score, in which you'll be rewarded with more of the aforementioned things above. 
  
  I got this game when it came out and at retail $19.99 for all the game you're getting, this 
 is a steal. Again, The Legend of Kage 2 is a great little game to play when you need a break from 
 Final Fantasy, feel like playing but don't have a lot of time, or for winding down before bed. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: NathanH2003
Rating: 8.5
Date: Oct 12, 2008 12:51 pm PT
Review:  This is a game I merely stumbled across in this website. I had know idea what it was about: simply 
 knew that there is a ninja named Kage and you have to fight other ninjas.
  
  Now, this is a sequel to a game that was released 20 years ago. Frankly, I don't know why they 
 revived the title (I can hardly call it a series yet) . Legend of Kage for the NES was the emperor 
 of frustration. Cheap deaths, lousy controls, bad weaponry... enough to make you want to throw 
 the control at the ninjas your fighting for the hope of better aim. The unique part about it was 
 that you can jump ridiculously high and climb trees, which I admit I had some fun with before I 
 was torn apart by enemy shurikens.
  
  Looking at some screen-shots, I realized that the game had changed extensively since the NES, and, 
 being a ninja lover myself, I started to look forward to it. It was a quietly announced game, and 
 only $20, so I figured I wouldn't lose much if this turned out to be just as bad. As the release 
 date grew closer, I did see some decent scores from other sites, so, remembering how quickly Ninja 
 Five-0 was pulled off of the market before I could check it out, I went to the nearest Best Buy 
 and grabbed a copy.
  
  As the name implies, it stars Kage, a young ninja of the Iga Ninja Clan, who was sent to escort 
 Princess Kirihime. To make a long story short, she's kidnapped, and it's up to you to rescue her 
 from an evil ninja clan that summons demons (channeling Ninja Gaiden at all?) . The main story is 
 almost needless, but the characters (even the bosses) are more deep than that of Ninja Gaiden and 
 a bit more interesting.
  
  Immediately, I noticed that the gameplay was completely revamped, providing a challenging yet fair 
 difficulty. This is another in a line of games that want to give you an old school experience, 
 but, unlike Shinobi and Ninja Gaiden, Kage never feels like an impossible task. Granted, there 
 are a few boss fights that took me a few tries to beat, but they never put me to the point of insanity 
 as Hiruko from Shinobi has done. Expect a challenge, but it will never feel too frustrating.
  
  Just like the previous game, you are able to jump really high from the start, but they give 
 you more than just that. You are able to run up walls at incredible speeds, jump off enemies heads 
 and cling to the ceiling. None of these are, say, innovative, but what they used was very well 
 executed. The acrobatic ability of Kage is enough to immerse yourself, and it well captures the 
 ninja feel. All his ability gives you a sense of superiority and freedom over your enemies.
  
  Kage 2 has more of a focus on melee than the last. Shurikens are available, of course, but 
 those are less powerful than the Katana (as to be expected) . For the katana, you start out only 
 being able to swing once, but as you progress you are able to pull off a three combo and moves 
 to make you look as bad-ass as possible. Charging the katana sets off a split ability that projects 
 two or more shadows of yourself behind you. Another thing I would like to point out is that, unlike 
 most sidescrollers, the enemies do not do damage by just touching you. They actually have to attack 
 you in order to do any damage, which I felt was a nice touch.
  
  There is also a magic (ninjitsu) element that allows you to perform various deadly attacks like 
 summoning fireballs or lightning. Magic is created through a mid-mission system where you combine 
 various elements (fire, water, lightning, neutral) . You are only allowed to use what you can fit 
 on the grid, but it can get rather clever on how you can mix in combos for the sake of room. It's 
 not the most advanced magic system I've seen, but it is well thought out and can keep you trying 
 to make deadly combos for an hour or two.
  
  As for the enemies, most of the time you'll fight standard ninjas and their recolors, but once 
 I started to accuse it of bad variety, I was suddenly attacked by this random bird and a rabid 
 dog at the same time, as though a retort. Later on, there is a wide variety of evil ninjas and 
 samurai that should keep you going. Even if you're still unsatisfied with the level enemies, the 
 game provides some well thought out boss designs, from a rival ninja to a giant spider. To its 
 credit, the boss fights are challenging but they are never too difficult and break the flow of 
 the game to any great degree. Overall, the combat is well put together keeping you on your toes 
 through the course of the game.
  
  Graphically, I, personally, don't see anything wrong with them, but I feel that they could have 
 done more. As it is, it sometimes seems like a GBA game with two screens. The music seems retro, 
 but neither the graphics nor the sound hindered my experience in any way. Any more dwelling on 
 these things would just be pointless nitpicking, because the gameplay is rich and enough to let 
 you forgive a few short comings.
  
  All in all, Legend of Kage 2 was well put together, and, although there is not much in terms of 
 innovation, what they used was well put together an executed for a satisfying experience. It is 
 worth more than its $20 price, making it one of the biggest surprises I've come across all year. 
 Despite the lack of advertisement and publicity, Legend of Kage 2 proves itself to be more than 
 a what was expected, and hopefully a new beginning to a redeemed game series.
  
  8.5/10 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
