-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Theme Park
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/ds/strategy/themepark/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 Excellent interface makes navigating park and menus simple.
 micromanagement smorgasbord.
 simple yet pleasant presentation.
 price gouging is deeply rewarding.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 Strategy can feel a bit limited for management veterans.
 can't revisit completed parks and only one save slot.
 wonky touch-screen controls and other minor bugs.
 local but not online park sharing.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Apr  3, 2007
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 6.9
Critic Score: 7.3, 18 Review (s)
User Score: 7.6, 264 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: EA Games
Developer: EA Japan Studio
Genre: Business Strategy
Date: Mar 20, 2007
ESRB: Everyone

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
It's not as complex as current-day management sims, but this portable remake of the 1994 classic 
 is as addictive and time consuming as ever. 

  If you've ever wondered why anyone listens to the crazy talk of that Peter Molyneux guy, it's partly 
 because of his genre-defining 1994 classic Theme Park for the PC, which opened up the world to 
 business strategy-style games. Echoing the original's gameplay, other versions of Theme Park have 
 attracted new crowds over the years by expanding its vomit-slicked walkways to various consoles 
 and platforms, and the Nintendo DS is the latest venue to proffer the game's exorbitantly priced 
 wares. If nothing less than Cedar Point's direct adrenal stimulation will do, then you might want 
 to stick with the latest Roller Coaster Tycoon game. However, if a nostalgic, cotton-candy-fueled 
 romp through Coney Island sounds like good times, you'll find that Theme Park's original formula 
 is still pretty addictive.  

          Finding the right combination of rides and shops is the only way to keep your park afloat -- and 
 free of vomit splatters.     

  Like most other versions, the DS version of Theme Park offers a very similar experience to the 
 PC original, with slight, mostly superficial, variations. After selecting one of four advisers 
 and choosing a difficulty and sim level for your park, you're let loose in England with a fat wad 
 of cash and a barren field of possibilities. A crash-course tutorial (which is optional but highly 
 advisable) gets you up and running, and then time passes to the periphery as you flesh out your 
 park and gouge your hapless customers for every cent they're worth. Your goal is to increase your 
 park value and available cash to a specified amount, at which time you can choose to sell off your 
 park, expand your empire into new markets, and then start from scratch. It's at this point that 
 the formula breaks down. You can't return to your park once you've sold it off, and though each 
 market you enter into is different, your approach to building up your park from one to the next 
 won't really change, nor will your selection of attractions. So aside from unlocking a small number 
 of new attractions and amenities, there's no particularly compelling reason to take your money 
 and run after painstakingly articulating the park you already have.  

  But building your park up is the meat of the experience, and for its time, Theme Park could bring 
 even the most stalwart of micromanagers to their knees. From how much salt you put on the fries 
 to how much you pay the man in the rhino suit, you have options. On the most comprehensive level, 
 it's your job to not only plan the layout of the park but also hire staff, stock the warehouse, 
 allocate research funds, and negotiate salaries and supply costs, among other things. Your options 
 are nothing if not numerous, and the pressure of keeping it all under wraps is spiked by the fleeting 
 calendar and the ridiculous demands of your insatiable mob. Plus, you'll definitely run the park 
 into the ground if you place rides and shops haphazardly or fall into any number of other pitfalls 
 for that matter. In fact, until you fully understand the ride-to-shop relationship, you'll probably 
 be utterly baffled when you consistently post year-end losses. However, once you've hit on a winning 
 strategy, that's pretty much it. You simply have to continue with that formula, and the game plays 
 itself out. You'll have a bit more leeway once the park is capable of sustaining itself, and you'll 
 still be at the reins when it comes to how you want the park to look and how to maximize profits. 
 But initially, there's only one clear and decisive way to build your park, once you get down to 
 the nitty-gritty of it.  

  The DS's dual-screen format lends itself quite nicely to Theme Park's interface. You'll get a rudimentary 
 yet comprehensive overhead view of your park on the top screen, as well as your adviser's tips, 
 your current balance, and the date. The bottom screen displays a close-up view of your park, and 
 the camera distance here feels just about perfect. Clicking on a ride or a staff member brings 
 up detailed information on the top screen while still giving you the zoomed-in look at your park 
 on the bottom screen. To make adjustments, you touch a button on the bottom screen to flip the 
 two screens and then hold the stylus down on whichever indicator is appropriate. The interface 
 as a whole is very clean and uncomplicated, making it a breeze to hike the price of an ice cream 
 cone to $50 and then go plant some shrubbery.  

  However, the transition wasn't completely smooth. Where you point on the touch screen often doesn't 
 match up to where an object actually is when you're trying to place it. Also, through no fault 
 of your own, guests will occasionally get stuck in line, forcing you first to find them and then 
 erase whatever obstacle is impeding their path. Neither of these bugs is directly detrimental, 
 but you will experience them, and they will probably annoy you. However, what can be detrimental 
 is the placement of coaster tracks and waterslide routes. Unlike walkways and queue lines, these 
 cost money to lay, and you'll occasionally place a few erroneous ones on accident because of the 
 stylus, without possibility of recouping your money. It's also a bummer that you can't tour your 
 park or ride your rides like you could in other versions, and there's only one save slot. It should 
 also be noted that fans who cut their teeth on more recent management games might find aspects 
 of Theme Park too confining, with the most striking examples being that you can't reorient any 
 of your shops or rides to face a direction of your choosing, and personalization and customization 
 options of individual rides range from severely limited to nonexistent.  

          For $298.50 less, you can get that same sausage at Costco, with a soda.     

  Even 
 with graphics that are reminiscent of the PC original, the DS version looks quite good. Colors 
 are vibrant, rides and stores are fairly detailed, and patrons, while a bit blocky, exhibit a lot 
 of personality. On a whole, the game has a very clean, uncomplicated look to it that is very inviting. 
 If you're doing well, the game sounds quite nice too. The music is akin to someone jamming on a 
 Casio keyboard (better than you might think) , and there are a lot of ambient noises that bring 
 your park to life, such as the ka-ching ka-ching noise of the cash registers. However, if your 
 business turns south, you'll immediately be made aware of it by some persistent and truly grating 
 effects, such as a child that simply won't stop crying no matter how much you beat it with your 
 stylus and retching sounds that capture quite well the aftermath of a weekend-long bender. It would 
 have been nice to tone down or dampen the sound effects a little bit because they are so ubiquitous. 

  For theme-park-building savants out there looking to flaunt their business acumen, EA Japan has 
 thrown in a local park-sharing feature, which is neat, though online functionality would have been 
 far better. Still, Theme Park is a fairly complex and strategic game that will last as long as 
 you want. You won't find all the bells and whistles adorning more recent management sims, but Theme 
 Park works well in a portable format.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (27 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: Sillygostly
Rating: 7
Date: Mar 4, 2009 8:14 pm PT
Review:  The Good : Region exclusive ride or shop for every country. Looks and plays almost identically 
 as the 1994 original on PC.
  
  The Bad : Only one region exclusive ride/shop per country. Monorails are completely useless given 
 that they cannot be built above walk paths. Dated visuals. The cut scenes from the PC game have 
 been scrapped. Only one save slot. Very limited multiplayer options. Takes forever to save. Repetitive 
 music and sound effects.
  
  --
  
  Having been introduced to Theme Park back in its heyday, I was glad to see that it was being ported 
 over to the DS, however, I held off buying it given the lack of new features, and I was a little 
 worried that I wouldn't warm to the DS control scheme. Fortunately, that hasn't been an issue as 
 the controls are pretty good, although focusing on specific visitors or rides in your theme park 
 may prove to be difficult if there are many people on the screen at once (though to be fair, this 
 was an issue in the PC original as well) .
  
  While it doesn't contain the depth and micro-management features of more contemporary simulation 
 titles, Theme Park provides a fun, easy to pick up theme park management sim with a selection of 
 three difficulties (in case you don't want to bother with more advanced features such as the stock 
 market, inventory etc.) . The game is a touch repetitive in nature though, as once you complete 
 the objections of one park, you basically repeat the same thing in another country, though each 
 country has its own economic and social status, so park-goers in some certains may not have as 
 much disposable income as others.
  
  While the visitors look a touch generic (as there are only about 6 different character models) , 
 they embody a fair amount of personality and express themselves by breaking the fourth wall as 
 a subtle way of hinting at ways in which the park can be improved.
  
  The graphics, while colourful, pleasant and simple, are dated. The audio is extremely repetitive, 
 and the music selection is quite limited, however, whatever is availabe isn't necessarily bad... 
 however, a broader range of songs would have been nice; especially for longer bursts, since the 
 game gets progressively harder.
  
  Flaws of the original PC version and the cut scene exclusion aside, my one MAJOR gripe with the 
 DS game is that monorail paths cannot be built over walking paths (or ANYTHING for that matter) . 
 This defeats the whole purpose of even having a monorail as they were originally intended to provide 
 an aerial tour of the park. While the monorails were nicely implemented in the PC original, they 
 are completely useless and impractical in the DS game.
  
  Old school gamers and fans of uncomplicated simulation games are likely to enjoy Theme Park for 
 its charm, simplicity and nostalgic value. Theme Park makes an almost seamless transition from 
 the PC over to the DS, however some of the aforementioned flaws keep it from being as good as it 
 could have been. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MadSomeone
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jan 3, 2009 12:50 pm PT
Review:  This brings back some memories. We remember absolutely loving this on the SNES way back in 1994. 
 Jeez, we feel old now.
  
  We had hours of fun building the most ridiculously large theme parks with all the rides and shops 
 you could possibly imagine, then we'd maintain the whole thing while watching thousands of those 
 little pixel people rush around the screen. Now Theme Park has been revived for the DS and, despite 
 the serious reduction in the size of the console and cartridge, the whole game is in there, every 
 last meticulously in-depth part of it. 
  
  That's the thing though - this might look like a cartoonish barrel of laughs but there's so much 
 in here it will have even the most money-trained adult's brain spinning at the amount of things 
 that need thinking about to run your park. This is no kid's game - Theme Park is a hardcore management 
 sim and really hard work. 
  
  
  You start off with nothing more than an entrance gate leading into an empty field. Then you start 
 building, with a few simple pathways, a couple of basic rides and a few snack shops. Once you have 
 that, you can open the park and let people in. As they rush around, you keep building, expanding 
 your park into a colossal Alton Towers-beater with the ultimate aim of earning profit then selling 
 the park on for enough money to buy land in the next country. Easy, right? 
  
  Business Before Pleasure
  No, that's the simple side of things. This game is all about financial 
 management - making a profit, not a loss - and everything you do costs money. Every ride, every 
 shop and every section of paving eats away at your bank account. You've got to design a fun and 
 well-laid-out park so that you get lots of happy punters; and then you must make sure your pricing 
 is right. 
  
  You don't just slap rides and shops down at random and hope for the best; there are factors to 
 think about. You have to make sure there are sufficient paths for easy access to everything. Shops 
 need to be positioned near the most popular rides to get lots of customers. You've got to space 
 out rides and shops evenly so there's variety everywhere. Our heads hurt...
  
  Happy Customers
  There's also a selection of trees, lakes, flowers and other environmental decorations 
 that can be used to make the people happier. You even have to think about details like not putting 
 rollercoasters near food shops so that people don't get on with a belly-full and throw up.
  
  Then you need to hire staff. No-one likes a dirty park so you need handymen to pick up the 
 litter and cut the grass. You'll need mechanics too - without them the rides are prone to break 
 down, and if you leave them operating too long without repair they'll explode. You'll also need 
 random clowns, magicians and entertainers to keep people amused between rides. 
  
  Then there's the financial management. First you set the entrance fee. Then you can set the price 
 of the goods in every shop in your park, tweak the wages you pay each member of your staff, and 
 set how much to spend on developing new types of rides. There are so many figures to think about 
 it'd have the world's best financial advisor pulling their hair out. 
  
  If anything, there's too much to think about. You won't be able to move your stylus fast enough 
 to keep everything running perfectly - there's always something to improve.
  
  Theme Park has to be admired for its astonishing amount of depth. There's something so rewarding 
 about seeing the whole thing in action. But there's so much to do that it'll give you a headache 
 and suck up hours of your time. If you're good under pressure you'll love this, but if you're expecting 
 a walk in the park you'll be in for a shock.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: 12345girl
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jul 7, 2008 8:19 pm PT
Review:  I have heard that this game was released in the mid-90s on the PC. It was quite hard to get used 
 to and required lots of eyes and maintenance. You start off with a page that requires you to fill 
 in including name, gender, blood type and a personal message. Then you select which country to start 
 the theme park (at first there is only UK) . Then you select the mode (sandbox, sims or full) , difficulty 
 and turtorial or not. The next page asks you which advisor you would like (a smart and sexy 26-year 
 old, a wised and experienced old man, a cute and sweet 18-year old or a young boy) . If you chose 
 the tutorial earlier on the advisor will tell you what to do. If you didn't you just start building 
 on a huge block of land. It is quite hard at first and i recommend you get lots of mechanics. B+. 
 For ages 10+ 
::::::

::::::
UserName: xela8
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 15, 2008 9:02 pm PT
Review:  This game is more intersting than the other Theme park games but this one is like the second version 
 of the 1994 version but sometimes I always run out of money but my favorite ride is the chair swing 
 ride.
  
  The older version kind of sucked cause the graphics were pretty bad the gameplay is kind of harmed 
 and its kind of hard than the newer version cause' the newer version had the visitors selling money 
 to you quickley also when you play it for a long time and try to buy the rides quickley if you 
 are running out of money.
  
  But the only bad thing about this game is a lot of visitors angry when you have a lot of rides 
 in the park but Sim theme park and rollercoaster tycoon don't do that.
  
  My sister LOVES this game she played it for almost all day sometimes but still gets up and plays 
 the sega genies tonight but that game was really cool at first you would love tio buy a game like 
 this! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mancub_col
Rating: 7.5
Date: Oct 8, 2007 10:55 pm PT
Review:  Great first game for the ds, fun and easy to make money but also easy to lose money at the same 
 time. This game will never get old, you would always find new things in the game that you wouldnt 
 have found from the first time playing the game. Great change with the land from country to country 
 and with the price change as well. The most fun is when you have all control of the theme park 
 and how it grows, very nice negotiating as well with the research of the park to make the park 
 get new rides and attractions. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: johno1995
Rating: 8
Date: Sep 16, 2007 9:29 am PT
Review:  I was hesitant at first. My choice was divided between Lost in Blue 2 and this game, Theme Park. 
 When I heard that Lost in Blue 2 was nearly exactly the same thing as its predecessor (which I 
 already own) , I instantly decided to pick this up. The game opens with a stunningly beautiful 3D 
 video, which would've worked extremely well as the game's real graphics, but alas, it's only a 
 show-off trailer in the beginning. Surprisingly, there's a ton of humor to be found in Theme Park.
 
  
  If visitors get off of a quick ride, they make a face and puke, sometimes you could even catch 
 people making goofy faces at you. The game's gameplay really shows age, but is truly addicting. 
 Building and managing your theme park is a blast, no matter how aged the game may be. While the 
 game's graphics may not be the best the portable system can offer, it's the best style for this 
 game, but alas there is still room for improvement. A lot of the game's flair is the whole idea 
 of the DS getting an actually very entertaining management sim. After all, Zoo Tycoon DS wasn't 
 exactly THE game of that year. Theme Park shows that Nintendo DS isn't just for kiddies, and that 
 there can be more to the system than what has been on it so far, and hopefully EA can bring us 
 an adaptation of Theme Park's sequel, or a brand new version with improved graphics. I love this 
 game, and is among my favorites in the DS collection. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DrCruel
Rating: 8.2
Date: Jul 7, 2007 12:03 am PT
Review:  I had originally avoided this title because of the theme (pardon the pun) , but saw a number of 
 high user and critic's reviews so I thought I'd take a chance on it, and I'm glad I did. The game 
 is a surprisingly deep economic simulation of a theme park, with plenty of chrome and pizzazz (making 
 waterslides and roller coasters in particular, once one figures out how to set up the ride to accept 
 passengers, is quite a blast ) . Some people have claimed to find the sound effects and music annoying, 
 but I rather liked it all - the crowd responds to your choices, and it's heartening when one does 
 get it right.
  
  With the settings all up to the highest levels the game is quite difficult, but if one wants to 
 just plunk around with it and unlock countries simply put all the levels to their lowest settings 
 and have at it. A great, albeit silly way to use up a few hours of spare time. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tyzwain
Rating: 8.3
Date: Jun 18, 2007 5:39 am PT
Review:  Theme Park. A game that brings memories of a happy childhood, and this game brings heavy feeling 
 of nostalgia. This DS version of the classic game brings the much loved game into the hands of 
 DS owners.
  
  Everyone who had a PC, a SNES, Mega drive, Saturn or Playstation will know how this game works. 
 Even the title gives the general feeling of how the game works. You own land, and must build a 
 theme park, a bus full of rich young children arrive every 5 minutes to go on the rides and spend 
 their money in your park.
  
  It may sound easy, but its harder then you think. The beginning process of building, hiring staff 
 and maintaining your park is challenging to maintain. Everything from stuck guests, a bouncy castle 
 blowing up, labour negotiations that end in strikes and kids littering all over the place. This 
 is not a walk in the park.
  
  Okay, so this is the classic game we have all grown to love. But where does it differ on the DS? 
 You may call it a port of the classic, but it includes some new minor changes. The first is your 
 advisor. You can now select your advisor, and have a choice of 4. My favourite was Lee, who kept 
 asking for prices to rise in goods and tickets. Another is the control system; the touch screen 
 brings a huge lot of fun to the DS version. If playing other console versions, the control pad 
 always made things slow. The DS version is on par, if not better then the PC version in terms of 
 controls. However there were a few minor issues when my hand kept covering the screen and I couldn't 
 select my handyman. It takes a little while to adjust to the controls, and would fully recommend 
 using the tutorial the first time.
  
  So apart from the few minor changes, Theme Park also boosts multiplayer functions. It allows players 
 to visit other players theme parks. It lacks in any control or long-term use, but adds a simple 
 option to solo play.
  
  The graphics are rather disappointing for DS standards, take a look at New! Super Mario Bros. and 
 Theme Park, and instantly the difference is noticed. The graphics and sound add a retro feel, but 
 could have been updated to improve on the blocky guests who screech in an 8-bit tone. Not a game 
 to play with headphones on.
  
  So in light of everything, Theme Park would be perfect for nostalgic gamers who want to see a updated 
 model. However they might be disappointed with the graphics and sound, as well as keep clicking 
 the gate to change ticket price, only to find that they've shut the gates and the 300 guests are 
 leaving. New players to Theme park will lavish in the glory that Theme Park represents, fun, complex 
 management, and the feeling of success when your park boosts huge profits. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DidiCardoso
Rating: 7.1
Date: May 20, 2007 9:55 am PT
Review:  Go back to the 90's. Do you remember Bullfrog's Theme Park? I guess we can honestly say that was 
 the game that inspired Rollercoaster Tycoon and other sim amusement park and tycoon games. It was 
 one of my favorite games to play back then, and it's still one of my favorites. Theme Park lets 
 you play as an amusement park mogul, building, managing and expanding your park to your heart's 
 content as long as the money allows. The game remains basically the same as it was originally, 
 with a few presentation and technical tweaks.
  
  There are three game modes, Sandbox, Sim and Full.
  
  Sandbox lets you built in whatever way 
 you like, with some of the features missing, as long as you have the money to keep on improving 
 your park. Sim mode enables Research and Development and the ability to negotiate stock prices 
 and staff raises (remember the arm stretching and hand-shaking?) . Full mode has all the options 
 available and gives you full control of your finances to even invest in the stock market.
  
  The initial tutorial is slow and barely lets you touch anything. But after that, you're on 
 your own. But you do get a personal advisor to give you hints and tips during gameplay. You can 
 pick from one of the five available advisors, each with their own distinct personality. This person 
 will be visible on the top screen and will suggest everything from raising ticket or item prices, 
 to what ride you should build next. They'll even tell you if someone is stuck or getting lost in 
 the park.
  
  If you have ever played the original Theme Park you will feel right at home. It's great to see 
 that all the old rides, shops and attractions are there: the hedge maze, the extremely unreliable 
 bouncy castle, the snake slide, duck shoot, hamburger stand what a trip to memory lane!
  
  The process of building the park is very simple. Select a section of the menu with a tap of the 
 stylus, select the ride, stall or item you want to place by circling around it, drag it on the 
 map and tap to pick a spot for it. It it's a ride, then you must pick a spot for the entrance and 
 exit and connect them to paths, with a line for people to wait to get it.
  
  Staff is very important too. You need handymen to clean you the guests' mess, security guards to 
 keep an eye on vandalism, and entertainers to keep people from being bored in line. You can give 
 your staff a little tap with the stylus as a form of encouragement too. It may not seem much, but 
 they will work harder. You can also set their patrolling areas to keep them from wandering all 
 over. Sometimes they will call you to a meeting to enter negotiations for a raise, it's up to you 
 to meet them halfway and get the best deal out of it, otherwise you have a strike on your hands, 
 which in turn means broken rides and dirty paths.
  
  The game makes good use of the dual screens. The top screen shows your advisor and his/her tips 
 or any ride or shop details. The touch screen shows your park and a series of menus to make your 
 job easy: paths, rides, shops and stalls, graphs and wi-fi options. Everything is easily accessible 
 and the process is intuitive and simple.
  
  Furthermore, if you select a ride, a shop or a staff member, you can pull their info from the top 
 screen to the touch screen to adjust a number of things. Sale price, ride speed, number of people 
 allowed on a ride at once, staff pathing, the amount of fat on a burger, winnings percentage, prize 
 value, there is a lot to manage but the game makes it convenient, a bit like a tycoon's dream on 
 the palm of your hand.
  
  It doesn't seem like that long ago that I was playing Theme Park as much as I do now, but it's 
 really been over ten years, and it's comforting to see that I still love this game as much now 
 as I did then. The only difference is that now I get to carry it anywhere with me.
  
  Review text part of Grrlgamer. com. Full text and screens at http://www. grrlgamer. com/review. php? g=themepark 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mallowman87
Rating: 6.8
Date: May 8, 2007 12:29 pm PT
Review:  I have fond memories of falling asleep in front of the TV, Theme Park snugly in my megadrive, controller 
 slipping slowly out of hands. This is a testament to how addictive this game has been in the past.
 
  
  With the advent of the Nintendo DS, it seemed likely that this sort of game would work quite well 
 with the Dual/Touch Screen features. In short, (In my opinion) It hasn't. The original gameplay 
 is ruined by the awkward scrolling controls, bugs that were probably in the original game, that 
 havent been removed (Like guests getting stuck on a path just because the path is behind a building) , 
 and what can be only described as the most annoying mixture of crying, vomiting, and booing when 
 you get it wrong (Which is also quite easy to do) .
  
  Having said that, if you can look past these cosmetic flaws, the gameplay is still pretty much 
 the same, and as previously mention, it is still addictive to play, which is the inherant redeeming 
 feature. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Geitsau
Rating: 6.4
Date: May 2, 2007 8:02 am PT
Review:  Gameplay:
  If you've played the original Theme Park or any of its spin-offs, you're now what you're getting 
 into. If not, let me break it down to you: You're in charge of a Theme Park (you can decide how 
 much you want to be in charge of) and you can manage everything from finances, building, workers 
 and stocks. This game features all the buildings that was in the original Theme Park, though you 
 have to unlock quite a few of them. They've added some too though, this time around there's area 
 specific buildings, for example you get Dragon Noodles if you build your Theme Park in China. The 
 gameplay is fun and sometimes even quite addictive, but there's a number of bugs that keeps messing 
 up the game (you would think they would've fixed these bugs after they've known about them for the 
 past 15 years) . For instance, guests tend to get stuck in my park, even in remote, isolate places 
 where it's impossible to walk. In some cases, mechanics refuse to fix certain rides, and my park 
 cleaners tend to just walk up and down the same lane over and over again. Come on guys, you could've 
 fixed this. Also, you can only have one park at once, meaning that if you sell your park in order 
 to advance in the game, you can never get back to the park you sold. There's also been added a 
 multiplayer function, but I haven't tested it yet since there's only local multiplayer, and no 
 wifi. Graphics:
  They have removed all of the park ride CG's (movies) ! Why?!? Also, they haven't really done a thing 
 to improve the graphics in any way, they haven't even fixed the graphical glitches that was in 
 the original! Shame on you, the graphics are poor for a DS game.
  
  Sound:
  There are a few soundtracks to choose from, which will give you enough variation. There's also 
 an unique soundtrack for each ride if you click on it. Nothing good, but nothing bad either.
  
  Value:
  This game takes quite a while to complete, I have no idea how many locations you 
 need to build parks in. Unless you're a Theme Park fan you'd probably get bored after not too long 
 however. But you'll keep coming back once in a while.
  
  Tilt:
  This game could've been so much better! At least the bugs could've been fixed. Also, I find this 
 game a tad hard, even on easy. Thankfully, there's poor mechanics you can exploit to keep your 
 park alive though. For beginners, the learning curve will be very steep. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: blackrytonite
Rating: 7.5
Date: May 2, 2007 12:58 am PT
Review:  Theme Park originated on the PC 13 years ago, opening the door to a new genre: Management Simulation. 
 Who doesn't want to own a virtual business? The concept is, of course, to build up your Theme Park, 
 make the guests happy, raise your park value, and unlock new countries to build parks in. You will 
 choose from four different partners to assist you when making decisions, a good addition for people 
 who are learning the ropes of the game. Your assistant will give you tips throughout the game, 
 like if your ticket prices need a little tweaking, or if a ride is too old and needs to be replaced. 
 You start out with very little rides and facilities to choose from, with some cash to get you started. 
 You start out simple, but paying for research for new items is a good idea, for more variety. There 
 is a good amount of depth to be found in Theme Park; The game gives you choices, everything from 
 how much caffeine goes into the coffee, to how much money you pay your staff. You have to keep 
 an eye on everything, like whether the mechanics are fixing the rides or just sitting lazily in 
 the grass, and if the Maintenence workers are cleaning the bathrooms or sweeping trash. The rides 
 can even blow up if you leave them too long without the mechanics tending to them. Listening to 
 or ignoring the majority of complaints will affect your park, and the happiness of the guests. 
 If people feel your prices are too high, you can lower them accordingly or just be a ruthless business 
 man (&gt;:) ) The choices are yours, even though this game is simple compared to the business simulations 
 of today.
  
  Fun and depth aside, the graphics could have used some major updating, though they aren't without 
 their old-school charm. Pixelated and rather ugly, and yet they are rather attractive at the same 
 time. The sound is nothing special, you will be listening to hammering noises, ride music and the 
 sound of guests vomiting all over your park, or absolutely nothing, if you turn the sound off.
 
  You'll get plenty of gametime and value out of the game, though a downside is that the parks aren't 
 all that different. If your looking for a good business game that has some old-school charm, this 
 port would be the one to get.
  
  Oh, and one other thing about the Coffee shop. Putting the maximum amount of caffeine in the coffee 
 is fun, I don't know of anyone who doesn't think watching little pixelated people on a caffeine 
 high run around a theme park psychopathically isn't freaking awesome. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: your__face
Rating: 8.5
Date: Apr 27, 2007 6:04 am PT
Review:  I don't know why gamespot has rated this so low. 6.9? Common this game i will give a 8.5. I believe 
 that this is a good mark for this game. Back in 1994 on the PSX it was a awesome addictive game, 
 however this is pretty much the same, which is great! It allows the player to have FULL control 
 over the park. Name it and you can pretty much make your park the way you want it to be,
  
  Good:
  - The gameplay lasts a long time due to the fact that you can customize your park heaps
 
  
  - Were i got my game it was really cheap, so another good thing is the price!
  
  - The graphics are VERY close to the PSX standeds. Making the DS graphics stand out for being a 
 handheld.
  
  Bad:
  - The most annoying thing about this game will be the sound and sound effects. The background music 
 is repetitive so beware! And you will hear the same effects pretty much through the whole game.
 
  
  - It can be unrealistic at times. like a ride will break a couple of times each 5 mins of gameplay, 
 and steaks dont cost 300 dollars.
  
  Overall this is a great buy for anyway who loved the PSX version. Also game for someone wanting 
 a game that will last a long time. Even BETTER if your DS speakers are broken. Lol =D 
::::::

::::::
UserName: -Murdock-
Rating: 3.5
Date: Apr 23, 2007 7:38 pm PT
Review:  First off if you like tycoon and simulation style games, do not buy Theme Park, it does not hold 
 up to today's standards if you have the least bit of standard for today's modern gaming. I'm sure 
 there is some sort of nostalgia here, but the the DS is not short of old-school gaming, so players 
 will likely be better off picking up any number of other titles if they need that Oh I remember 
 this game feeling. Theme Park was picked up on a whim and there was nothing here to hold my attention 
 or entertain me. This may all sound like personal preference, well it is... a preference for fun, 
 a desire for a game that should hold up to today's standards, Theme Park fails in every regard. 
 But Theme Park was made back in 1994, it's not going to be like today's games. Then it should have 
 remained a distant memory to those who enjoyed it back when Stupid is as Stupid does was an actual 
 catch phrase. The graphics are retro in the sense they are just poor and blown out of proportion 
 for the DS's screen. The controls are inane making players not only click on something, but to 
 then circle it as well in a redundant fashion thanks to the need for touch controls. The sound 
 is ''meh'' at best with some sometimes catchy music.
  
  All that aside this should have been a budget title, not a $30 fully priced game. $9.99 would have 
 made the dated... everything... almost acceptable, but it wasn't and it's not. Avoid Theme Park unless 
 you have exhausted all resources in stabbing yourself in the face, yes, in the face. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: zero3112
Rating: 8.8
Date: Apr 23, 2007 6:02 pm PT
Review:  The game is pretty fun but the graphics lack so i give it an 8.8 if the graphics where beter it 
 would probley have been a 9.8 for my rating. I think the graphics are a big thing if the graphics 
 are bad then it isnt fun to look at and play. But other then the graphics I would recomed this 
 game if you dont have it its pretty fun and intertaning. Im done with my rewiew know so dont read 
 the rest i just put more to take up the 100 words munium for a review. Need more words ummmmmmm 
 ok . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kkmga
Rating: 6.1
Date: Apr 10, 2007 3:45 pm PT
Review:  Great stuff. Its old-schooled but awsome! Its grown into me but you'll have to take some time to 
 get to learn the control's.
  
  It was easy for me because i collect games like this. It's a very nice game and it was really worth 
 the wait.
  
  It was a very nice game, The Graphics need VERY GOOD work and the people you get to get help from 
 are cute and all but the Graphics? BLAH!
  
  Sometimes i wonder why and were some games are produced from, Don't you? Lolz, I'm just writing here 
 so my text can get to 100 words, XD! L-lolz
  
  Hoped you liked reding my review, Maybe you'd like to one day write a review. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mapler2006
Rating: 9.9
Date: Apr 7, 2007 1:09 pm PT
Review:  this is the greatest game ever. I really like the gameplay and it looks great plus there is a full 
 walk-through when you first play the game and the first game never told you anything on how to 
 play. you whould had to keep playing till you got the game right and you know how to open the bloody 
 park. its sounds great and the music is most best i ever heard so im going to give it a 9.9 out 
 of 10. Not to mention the 5 back ground music 4 from picking a adviser. to see how crap the first 
 game was, go to http://www. youtube. com/watch? v=curMujsnpD8 
::::::

::::::
UserName: amz310783
Rating: 8.1
Date: Apr 3, 2007 8:29 am PT
Review:  I had Theme Park for the PC a few years ago, it was a dos copy that came with Theme Hospital, and 
 I loved it, so when I found out it was coming out for the ds I couldn't wait to buy it, although 
 I was waiting to be disappointed, nothing is as good as you remember it.
  The thing I liked most about it was the fact you could build your own park, but you were also in 
 complete control, you researched the rides, you bought stock for the shops, decided how much sugar, 
 salt etc to put in things.
  When I tried the psone version all this seemed to be missing, now I'm not sure if I was playing 
 on the easy levels or what, but I was really disappointed.
  So once I bought the ds version I was really to find that lot back in.
  I find this game highly 
 addictive, its not enough just to make enough money and get your park value up, I need all the 
 best rides, best staff, best everything!
  There is more to do than you would think in this game, first you have to place your rides and shops, 
 and you really have to do this well, then decide what to charge in the shop, how much whatever 
 to put in your product, next you have to remember to keep ordering stock.
  The staff is basic, you hire someone and pay them, this was the same as the original version, but 
 I think it would've been better if we were given more people to choose from, with different wages 
 and abilities.
  You also have to research into new things if you are playing the full mode, this means rides, upgrading 
 your rides, upgrading staff, etc, you have to decide how much of your budget to put into resaerch 
 and what to put it in to.
  All in all I would say this game is perfect for the ds, the controls are very easy, although a 
 little annoying as you have to tick instead if just touching the one you want, but when placing 
 you just touch with the stylus, its very easy to pick up, but not so easy to put down! Its very 
 much like the first one I played, so if you've played it before and not enjoyed it, don't bother, 
 but if you've played i before and loved it then this is the game for you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TerminatorUK
Rating: 9.2
Date: Apr 2, 2007 6:09 am PT
Review:  Loved the original game that I used to play on the Amiga a lot and this version is even better. 
 The game has not lost any of its content and charm and the implementation of the re-structured 
 menus, much easier tools and the stylus control is absolutely superb. The designers have tweaked 
 the interface into a very, very polished finish; everything is intuitive and in a logical place.
 
  
  The resolution is crisp, the frame rate/fluidness of the people/rides/scrolling even when the park 
 is packed (I remember massive slowdowns and lag when you park was very big) is absolutely brilliant 
 which adds to the quality of the game.
  
  The control system and screen usage is exceptionally good as well. The stylus control is accurate 
 and easy to use; laying paths and rides is an absolute doodle (arguably easier than using a mouse 
 was!) . The screens flip seamlessly so you can always see what your park is doing even when you 
 are in menus and works very well.
  
  Staff/Stock negotiations are very well done as well; instead of having a plate biscuits to indicate 
 the time remaining, the top screen now showing an hour glass with a count-down timer giving you 
 the precise time you have left to negotiate. Also the hands move very smoothly now which allows 
 you to tweak the negotiations in your favour easily.
  
  My only major gripe is that you can only have a single save-game which means you can't let others 
 play and save their game without erasing yours in the process which I think is quite a limitation.
 
  
  Overall this is an excellent game for the DS and everyone should be able to get a lot of enjoyment 
 out of this classic perfectly preserved from the past. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: denjohan
Rating: 8.5
Date: Apr 1, 2007 12:27 pm PT
Review:  This is really old-school, in every sense of the word. I played this one back in 1995 when it was 
 new and have found it on several abandonware sites around the net. I'm a big fan of strategy/management 
 games, and this is a solid classic. Sure, there are a lot of newer games around with more depth 
 and variation, but ever still is this classic back-to-basics fun, and the gameplay, classical in 
 all means, just works. Why change a winning concept?
  
  Good strategy games is hard to find at the DS, but this is on of the titles that pass the test. 
 Now we just have to wait for a bunch of other strategy goodies coming to the DS this year (SimCity 
 DS, THe Settlers and Anno 1703) . Looks like this could be a good year for strategy-lovers on the 
 DS. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Unchainedterror
Rating: 9.4
Date: Apr 1, 2007 11:47 am PT
Review:  First of all this game wasnt first made for the ds it was made for the pc by bullfrog games after 
 a long time this game became a port for the ds. Having not played the original i decieded to check 
 out the port for the ds and i must say its amazing just the depth of it all is great from choosing 
 the amount of salt you want on your french fries [ the more salt u put on means more ppl buying 
 drinks] to choosing what the chances of winning at any of the game stalls you can build. As for 
 the rides pretty much everything u can think of is here. As for the graphics there the same as 
 the originals which really arent bad for the ds except some of the ppl look a little weird to me. 
 Now this is what could be the games biggest fault , its music, the games music ranges from annoying 
 guitar playing to some ok themepark style music but it can get on your nerves a little bit. So 
 in conclusion themepark for the nintendo ds is a must have for fans of the rollercoaster tycoon 
 series 
::::::

::::::
UserName: HellfireCF
Rating: 9.3
Date: Mar 29, 2007 7:54 pm PT
Review:  This game is just plain fun. The graphics aren't awesome, but hey its a cartoon pseudo 3D game. 
 The soundtrack is ok, not great, almost lame. Sometimes the game seems like you are getting nowhere, 
 and thats usually a sign to change things up. Otherwise I am pleased with this game. Simple, fun, 
 but not too easy. The customization of this game is well done. Although sitting furniture like 
 chairs or tables don't appear in the game. And your guests will complain about walking too much. 
 That can be annoying to some players. Everything runs smooth and works well. Menus are well laid 
 out and easy to access using the touch screen. Characters are easy to touch and assess their situation, 
 pay, and path of cleaning/working. And setting paths, rail, track and what not are pretty easy 
 to set. Overall I have logged in hours enjoying micromanaging my people in the theme park. This 
 game is great for hardcore gamers and non hardcore gamers. I wouldn't suggest buying this as your 
 first game though. It might become frustrating if you have never played this type of game before. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: skaluv
Rating: 9.1
Date: Mar 29, 2007 7:28 am PT
Review:  Theme Park DS is actually an improvement on the original. The presentation is very tight and while 
 the game is not perfect the overall product is very polished. While I have owned a DS since day 
 one I am continously amazed at the amount of power harnessed from this machine. Theme Park's interface 
 design and use of video codecs are definately an achievement.
  
  I was very excited to play this game because hopefully this can serve as a tech demo to traditional 
 pc programmers to port more RTS and Sim games to the DS. I for one would love to see Warcraft 1 
 on the DS. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: iGaze
Rating: 9.2
Date: Mar 27, 2007 5:39 pm PT
Review:  I love this game, Especially on the DS. It includes great touchscreen controls, charming characters, 
 great rides, simple graphics, average music, great extra things like stocks research and bargaining, 
 and Hours of great fun. There is nothing I don't really like about this game. What's not to like? 
 Theme Park Sims are always fun. For fan of roller coaster tycoon, this is great. It may have a 
 few short comings compared to RCT. It's short coming are less customization, dumber staff, no view 
 switching, and less scenery. The game is still great, and it is freakin portable!!!! First portable 
 theme park sim I think.... Great game... It's graphics are average though. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: evrynitewithyou
Rating: 9.1
Date: Mar 26, 2007 10:28 pm PT
Review:  I use to play this game when I was younger for hours on end. The way they placed it on the ds is 
 just perfect. The stylus is used perfectly for this game. It feels like a brand new game to me 
 all over again, because the way the controls are and what not. If you never played this game when 
 it first came out or even if you have, you will still enjoy it very much. The graphics are pretty 
 much the same as the original, but thats ok, cuz the gameplay makes up for it. This was a quiet 
 release for the Ds, but I think it will be a great game for a long time. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: poohbear12
Rating: 8.9
Date: Mar 23, 2007 10:59 am PT
Review:  The good:
  A nearly perfect port of a great PC game. Graphics look better on the DS than the original. Wonderfully 
 easy-to-use touch-screen interface.
  
  The bad:
  The gameplay can become a little repetitive, with you building the same park over and over again. 
 Bad music.
  
  So there I was, looking ahead on the GS new releases page, getting an idea of what was to come 
 in the coming months for the DS, when I spotted this game slated for release in March. Nooooo. couldnt 
 be the same game as that Bullfrog release. could it?
  I meanthat was a truly great gamea pioneering venture into the wonderful world of business management 
 sims. set in an amusement park. It was a stroke of genius. Everyone loves amusement parks. Why 
 not allow you the opportunity to build one?
  
  Anyway, my excited sense of anticipation rapidly gave way to a sense of dread. How, I thought, 
 could they possibly cram that wonderful PC game into a DS without some major sacrifices? In the 
 original, you could control every aspect of your park, right down to how much ice you wanted to 
 put into the sodas you sell (to boost profits) . To top off my sinking feeling, there was the fact 
 that this incarnation was being put together by none other than EA, a company who, in my humble 
 opinion, has not exactly been great of late, churning out carbon copies of the same sports game 
 for years. How could they possibly do this title justice? Would the Bouncy Castle still bounce? 
 Would you still be able to design your own rollercoaster from scratch? Are the go-karts and tubing 
 still there? Will you get to see the park full of little people marching around with smiles, frowns, 
 or hunger signs over their heads? I doubted it.
  
  So I got my hands on a copy.
  
  Damn.
  
  Its the same game.
  
  I mean. its EXACTLY the same wonderful game originally 
 done for PC. you can control everything, build everything, manage EVERYTHING in your own little 
 amusement park (or parks, rather, since there are 16 different countries, with different demographics) . 
 The rides all look the same as the original, the degree of control over everything (number of people 
 allowed on, speed of the ride, etc) is still there. wow.
  
  If you didnt play the original, you missed out, but fear not: this is an absolutely faithful rendering 
 of it. I cant believe they managed to cram every nuance in there, and produce a business management 
 sim with such magnificent depth, decent enough graphics for a 15 year old game, and a streamlined 
 intuitive user interface (i. e. the touchscreen controls everything) . Doing something is as simple 
 as pointing and clicking, be it drawing a new path, erasing one, placing a worker or ride. the 
 interface is so easy to use that it fades into the background as you start playing, and become 
 absorbed in the park you are designing, price-tweaking the teddy bears, clicking on random people 
 walking around to see what theyve done in your park and what they are feeling so far. again, wow.
 
  
  The only negative is that the music they've introduced is pretty weak, but luckily you can switch 
 it off but leave the other sounds on. I wish more games allowed this option.
  
  The only other potential negative is that the whole idea of building a theme park is wonderful 
 at first, but begins to wear thin when you are starting off on your 6th or 7th. The main problem 
 is, there is not enough variety of gameplay to force you to deviate from a formula you may have 
 found works. So, you end up building pretty much the same park over and over, which for some might 
 get boring fast. Me? I love it, since I'm always trying out new configurations, putting rides near 
 or away from others, or for a laugh, trying to put together the worst possible park (outhouses 
 next to restaurants and ride exits so there's lots of sick people.... wheeee) .
  
  Thank you EA. youve restored my faith in you as a producer of quality video games. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Gigatron
Rating: 8.5
Date: Mar 22, 2007 11:38 am PT
Review:  The original Theme Park was released in 1994. It's a notable game because it was one of the first 
 tycoon games, in other words business management. It was developed by Bullfrog Productions, which 
 was co-founded by game guru Peter Molyneux. It has had several ports, but now it has arrived on 
 the DS.
  
  Anyone who's played Roller Coaster Tycoon, or any tycoon game for that matter, will find this familiar. 
 You make your own theme park, you name it, hire staff, build stuff, etc. You start off by picking 
 one of four guide characters, each with a different personality. They'll help you out a lot more 
 than the guy in the original. The original game was very difficult, but thankfully they've not 
 only toned down the difficulty, but included harder ones for more experienced players. The game's 
 interface benefits greatly from the DS touchscreen. You'll find everything from stocks, loans, 
 visitor feedback, charts, and much more to help you out. It's a VERY deep game, but at the same 
 time accessible to casual players. You can play it nice and make sure customer satisfaction is 
 the most important thing, or you can be a bastard and sell more drinks by upping the salt in the 
 fries so it makes people thirstier. There's GREAT replay value, and there's dozens of attractions 
 and utilities to build. It's gets pretty complex, balancing things like profits and employee needs, 
 but it never gets too overwhelming.
  
  The graphics are charming and expressive, and also pretty funny. It's a pretty old game, but now 
 that it's scaled down to the DS screen they look crisp and less choppy. The sound is forgettable, 
 but doesn't detract from the experience.
  
  An exclusive DS feature is local wireless. You can visit eachother's parks and exchange messages. 
 If you can find a friend that has it, it's kind of a neat feature.
  
  In closing, you'll definitely see why this is on GS's Greatest Games list. The gameplay is superbly 
 designed, and is a great fit on Nintendo's handheld. Don't be fooled by the quiet release or the 
 crappy box art, because this is one of the most deep and well-crafted games on the DS. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
