-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: The New York Times Crosswords
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/ds/puzzle/thenewyorktimescrosswords/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 Touch screen makes it easy to draw letters and fix mistakes.
 You can save a puzzle in progress.
 Keeps statistics for the puzzles you've completed.
 More than 1,000 genuine <i>New York Times</i> crosswords.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 People who aren't diehard word buffs will have trouble solving puzzles.
 There's no way to download additional puzzles.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Jun 20, 2007
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 8
Critic Score: 8.1, 12 Review (s)
User Score: 7.5, 99 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Majesco Games
Developer: BudCat
Genre: Puzzle
Date: May 29, 2007
ESRB: Teen

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Superb handwriting recognition and other cool features make a strong argument for ditching paper 
 crosswords in favor of ones on handhelds like the Nintendo DS. 

  One of the things the  New York Times  newspaper is famous for is its daily crossword puzzle, which 
 employs clever clues and quirky themes to test a person's ability to recall knowledge about a vast 
 array of topics including world history, science, literature, the arts, and pop culture. Puzzles 
 increase in difficulty as the week progresses. Monday's puzzle tends to provide straightforward 
 hints and simple puns, whereas Sunday's grid provides cryptic clues about esoteric words and phrases 
 that even well-traveled bookworms will have trouble coming up with. Majesco's The New York Times 
 Crosswords lets you rack your brain against 1,000 authentic  New York Times  crosswords without 
 having to lug around a bunch of newspapers or pencils.  

          No pencil, no eraser. You draw letters on the touch screen using the stylus.     

  
 You don't have to worry about ink staining your fingers anymore, or transforming the page into 
 a smudged mess from constantly erasing your mistakes. Puzzles are shown on the system's touch screen, 
 and letters are either typed via a quick, easy-to-use keyboard on the touch screen, or drawn directly 
 onto the touch screen with the stylus. A split second after you draw a letter in the input area, 
 the letter will magically appear in the highlighted box on the puzzle grid. The software's handwriting 
 recognition is very accurate and can handle print or cursive styles in uppercase or lowercase form. 
 You'll notice some clashes early on -- for example, confusing uppercase G's and B's -- but these clashes 
 will become less frequent over time. If you make a mistake, all you have to do is draw a dash in 
 the input box or press the erase button and the offending letter will be removed. It's just like 
 filling out a paper crossword, except that you're free to hazard guesses and change letters without 
 dirtying up the puzzle. The presentation won't amaze you, but the crisp lettering, soft background 
 colors, and soothing music create a pleasant atmosphere that makes a few hours feel like only a 
 few minutes.  

  All around, the controls and features make a strong argument for ditching traditional crosswords 
 in favor of ones on handhelds like the Nintendo DS. The touch screen and buttons easily let you 
 select menu options, move to different sections of the puzzle, zoom the view in or out, and request 
 hints. Every press of the hint button will reveal another letter of the currently highlighted word. 
 When you've filled in the last letter box, the software will show you the whole puzzle, circle 
 any incorrect letters, and give you the opportunity to correct your mistakes. You can choose to 
 have the system grade your ability to solve puzzles. If you opt to do so, time and the use of hints 
 count against your grade. The system keeps track of which puzzles you've completed and the grades 
 you've received. A built-in save function also lets you store a puzzle in progress, shut the system 
 off, and come back to it later.  

  Puzzles generally take anywhere from 30 minutes to two hours to complete. When you multiply that 
 by roughly 1,000 puzzles, that's some serious play time. Of course, you could buy a few crossword 
 anthology books containing the same number of puzzles for half the price of this game card. But 
 then you'd have to haul around a bunch of books and pencils, and you wouldn't be able to erase 
 your mistakes as easily. Different play modes let you pick a quick puzzle at random, select specific 
 puzzles from a calendar-style list, or attempt a week's worth of puzzles in one shot. There's also 
 a multiplayer mode that lets you beam puzzles to as many as three other players from only a single 
 game card. One setting allows you and your friends to complete the puzzle cooperatively, while 
 the other initiates a competition to see who can fill in the most answers before time runs out. 
 Some way to download additional puzzles from the Internet would have been nice, but that's not 
 a huge problem since it'll take you at least a few months to get through the ones that are included 
 on the game card -- and that's assuming you pour your life into doing so.  

          Tricky clues and a wealth of worldly topics make these the toughest crosswords around. 
     

  Another thing to keep in mind is that these are some of the most challenging crosswords around. 
 The  New York Times  is known for its hard news coverage of politics, scientific studies, and the 
 economy, as well as its coverage of softer topics such as literature, entertainment, and sports -- not 
 just from the United States, but from around the globe. The editors of the daily crossword assume 
 solvers read the paper every day, which means the puzzle tends to be geared toward highly educated 
 people that have a good sense of the world and its history. Clues often involve clever wordplays 
 and sayings, while answers frequently turn out to be foreign words, abbreviations, and multiword 
 phrases. A typical Monday clue asks for the capital of South Korea (Seoul) . One Thursday puzzle 
 wants you to write the name of the monster confronted by Hercules during his second labor (Hydra) . 
 The clue to 77-Down in the puzzle for Sunday, May 22, in the second year cryptically asks, "Iliad: 
 The Movie?" From that you're supposed to remember that  The Iliad  took place around Troy and come 
 up with the two-word pun "Troy Story." If you have a good measure of life experience and knowledge 
 of the world and culture, you should fare fine just as long as you don't mind occasionally asking 
 a friend for help or making use of the hint function. However, if you're still in grade school, 
 didn't pay attention when you were in school, or don't keep up with current events, the majority 
 of these clues and puzzles are simply going to be beyond your reach.  

  Because the majority of puzzles require a wealth of knowledge to complete, this game isn't appropriate 
 for younger players or people with a limited knowledge of the world and its goings-on. Bearing 
 that disclaimer in mind, you should definitely pick up The New York Times Crosswords for the Nintendo 
 DS if you enjoy solving crosswords and feel that your brain has amassed a healthy understanding 
 of current events and culture during your years on this planet. Furthermore, people who don't normally 
 like solving pen-and-paper crosswords may just find that they like how the touch screen makes it 
 easy to jot down letters and erase mistakes.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (1 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: sjesseph
Rating: 5
Date: Dec 21, 2007 10:02 pm PT
Review:  I like to do crosswords from time to time (in the people Magazine that is) and I saw this in the 
 store and they were running a speical this month so it was only 10.00. Now like most people a 10.00 
 DS game is worth a try. SO I picked it up and bought it. I went home and I had high hope for this 
 games but I must say I do not get the NEW York times seems how I live in Kansas, Now for the game 
 play the crosswords are HARD! I can hold my own when it comes to crossword puzzles but am no wiz 
 at them. The graphics and sound were just ok but the game was just too hard for me. Sadly I gave 
 it to a friend that is a wiz at crosswords puzzles and she loved it and plays it all the time. 
 As for me 10.00 was a small price to pay to bring some joy for my friends life and if you are good 
 and I mean good at Crosswords then buy and you may love it. If not..... Pass it by and hope they 
 come out with a DS game for Word Searches. That I would be good at! 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
