-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: The Rub Rabbits!
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/ds/puzzle/rubrabbits/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 Nicely stylized graphics.
 Interesting story.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 Gameplay gets tedious.
 Music is repetitive.
 Not a lot of replay value.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Feb  6, 2006
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 6.2
Critic Score: 7.0, 50 Review (s)
User Score: 7.6, 228 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Sega
Developer: Sonic Team
Genre: Puzzle
Date: Feb 13, 2006
ESRB: Teen

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
While The Rub Rabbits has a stylish and pleasing look to it, the simple, often tedious minigames 
 are too shallow to hold your interest. 

  One of the more interesting games available at the Nintendo DS launch was a nifty little minigame 
 collection called Feel the Magic: XY/XX. The game took basic, single-action minigames that wouldn't 
 seem terribly out of place in a WarioWare game and wrapped a crazy love story around them, which 
 made the simple games more interesting. That same basic formula is what drives the game's sequel, 
 The Rub Rabbits. You'll get a decent array of minigames and an interesting, stylish story. Unfortunately, 
 the quality of the minigames is generally low. You'll want to trudge through them once to watch 
 the unique story unfold, but the game is filled with too many "I never want to do that again" moments 
 to offer much replay value.  

          You can dress her up however you like, but she won't always appear in that outfit.     
 

  The game's story mode opens with you -- a strapping young lad -- getting a glimpse of a beautiful female 
 who is going in the opposite direction on an escalator. Not willing to let her go, your first task 
 is to scurry back up the escalator to get to her by rubbing the touch screen with upward strokes. 
 But you aren't alone in this challenge; other men are hot on her trail. But wait, there's more! 
 A chance encounter with another girl gets her hooked on you the same way you're hooked on the first 
 girl! So you're chasing after a girl to win her affection while another girl is trying to get girl 
 #1 out of the picture so she can have you all to herself.  

  The story mode stretches out to more than 35 minigames, though a few of the later games are merely 
 repeats of earlier ones. The minigames are all meant to portray simple, singular tasks. You'll 
 test your memory by watching your girlfriend poke you in specific spots, then poke her right back 
 the exact same way. In another you'll toss your girlfriend up into the air with an upward stroke, 
 she'll grab a bunch of fruit, and then you must catch her by positioning yourself under her with 
 the stylus. A few games also use the microphone, asking you to blow into it to breathe fire at 
 robots and such. If you're dedicated to getting through it, it won't take you more than an hour 
 or two to do so. Most of the games are quite easy, though the more difficult ones are frustratingly 
 tough and are usually caused by some troublesome control mechanic. These random difficulty changes 
 can be a little annoying.  

  Beyond the story mode, you can also go back and play any of the minigames you've already played 
 to earn more hearts. Hearts are the game's currency for unlocking objects, and you'll unlock items 
 for "maniac dress-up" as you earn more of them. The dress-up option lets you dress your girl in 
 various clothes, but in the static story screens, and in many of the game's other sequences, she'll 
 still be wearing the default outfit, so it's not implemented very well. Games that focus on time 
 can be unlocked for use in a time attack mode, also. Hullabaloo is a separate multiplayer game 
 where you pass the DS from one player to the next, and each player must hold down specific buttons. 
 It's like a crazy relay race with a game of Twister thrown in. Two players holding one DS can create 
 a baby... using the game, of course. Both players answer a brief questionnaire, and then they must 
 execute the cooperative task of cutting a cake to create the baby -- just like in real life! You 
 can transfer babies around to other players using the game's wireless functions. You can also play 
 some of the games with up to three other players wirelessly, using only one copy of the game as 
 a host. The multiplayer option adds more value to the proceedings, as those games are a little 
 more interesting than the standard minigames, though there are only six of them to choose from. 

          Sterilize that leg wound, but be gentle about it, OK?     

  Even if the game isn't always fun to play, at least it's interesting to look at. Most of the characters 
 are merely black cutouts, with some occasional clothing, hair, or accessories to make them stand 
 out. There's no real speech in the story, but the animation in the game does a great job of miming 
 the storyline, so it's rarely confusing. The sound in the game is a little basic. The music is 
 repetitive, and there are only a few different murmurs or other vocal effects, as well as a few 
 different speech clips, such as "break time" or "rub it!"  

  All in all, The Rub Rabbits is a classic case of style over substance. While the game has a cool 
 look to it, the gameplay just gets in the way. If you're a fan of the original, this one offers 
 more of the same, but as a sequel, rather than as an original product, it's not nearly as interesting 
 the second time around.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (11 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: SomeOddGuy
Rating: 8
Date: Aug 18, 2008 9:15 am PT
Review:  It's a little late for me to write this review, but this is one of the few games I looked up to 
 so much during its development. The game is almost impossible to describe to someone that hasn't 
 played the game. With the first game being absolutely unique and crazy fun, this title takes everything 
 that the first title did right and adds a plethora of new content to it, though with the consequence 
 of sacrificing the feel of originality.
  
  'The Rub Rabbits!' opens up with a typical romance-comedy motive: Guy sees girl, falls in love, 
 and tries to win girls heart. What's the first thing that makes this game completely crazy? It's 
 not just that one guy that becomes infatuated. It's 11 other guys as well! The game's storyline 
 is far from obvious though, unless you're familiar with how the first game plays out. To newcomers, 
 you'll fall victim to raising your eye brow when you get introduced to the minigames. Running up 
 the down escalator with Sumo Wrestlers and gentlemen on it, having to ride a unicycle over a building 
 to get your picture taken with your girlfriend, to even facing those other men to a DragonBall 
 Z style showdown by playing a simple game for Rock-Paper-Scissors? Yeah, this is really part of 
 your normal romantic story. Though this won't be a surprise to anyone that has played the original 
 title, seeing how it was just as random.
  
  The one thing that makes the minigames more unique in this game from the other is that it takes 
 innovative use of the DS's features to a whole new level. Most of the games now require the use 
 of both the touch screen and top screen by having the action set on both screens. Some of the minigames 
 now require you to make use of both the touchscreen and microphone. Though one of the things that 
 takes this to a whole new level is the fact that some of the minigames require you to hold the 
 DS in different positions. How so? Some minigames require you to to hold the DS sideways. For 2006 
 this was big, seeing how not many (if any at the time) games had required the players to hold the 
 DS sideways. Though they take it even further by having Minigames where you must hold the DS completely 
 upside down! This was completely abnormal then, and it still is nowadays.
  
  The issue with some of these minigames is that you must play through each of the 30-something minigames 
 in order to progress. That means completing the minigame you are currently playing to progress 
 to the next, no matter how difficult (or easy) the task is. The main issue is that while alot of 
 the minigames do not require much effort to pass, some of the later minigames, such as Bull, are 
 ridiculously difficult to not only newcomers, but also veteran players of the first. Some of the 
 minigames just feel repetitive while others might seem too easy. In the latter stages, some of 
 the minigames are just exact replications of previous minigames, with the only different of being 
 slightly harder.
  
  And we're half way through with the review. Hang tight and take a breather if you need to.
  
 
  The music in this game is very nostalgic in style, seeing how alot of it is chorus involved. Though 
 the constent sound of men humming (or something) to the music can sound very annoying since they 
 do it at an ever constent rate to the music, the music is still rather catchy. Maybe you might 
 might yourself trying to hum with it. Though the style is nothing new from the first title. Heck, 
 players of the first will immediately recognize some of the tunes of the game, with the memory 
 of those certain tunes being very much, or completely like in the first. The main one you'll hear 
 quite often will probably be the first game's theme song, which is probably the catchiest tune 
 in the game. Though expect to hear the same 8 tunes for the minigames (exception to the last 2) 
 to be frequently used.
  
  The graphics in the first were stunning, regardless of the black silhouettes that represented the 
 characters. Returning from the first is the dress up your girl portion of the game, Maniac Mode, 
 this time with more accessories and costumes. The dress up option is really questionable whether 
 or not they wanted you to dress your character or wanted to display the shiny new graphics they 
 have in store for you to see. Outfits will have different texture properties now, seeing how plain 
 cloths with be plain in color as plain clothes to the subtle shine on rubber outfits such as the 
 ninja outfit. For something so little in detail, it does bring a lot of distinction to the graphics.
 
  
  Players of the first remember the great mixture is art style in the first title with the frequent 
 change between 2D and 3D with each minigame. No longer does 2D exist in 'The Rub Rabbits!' other 
 than in the comic style cutscenes, but sometimes it may be for the better. The detail in the 3D 
 is amazing in this title. Whether you're rolling in a giant pile of snow as if you were one of 
 the Monkey Ball characters or rolling around the floor while tied up, avoiding these strange cannonball 
 hearts, everything is well detailed in 3D.
  
  Memories anyone? Any veteran player of Feel the Magic would know what I'm talking about when I 
 say that. Memories is back again, though in possibly one of the worst ways possible. Memories mode 
 requires you to play through the 10 stages of a minigame (stages building up from normal to hard) 
 with only 1 chance to do them all correctly. Failing anytime throughout the 10 stages will cause 
 you to start over from the beginning. Players will probably crack under frustration on trying to 
 do this tedious task, regardless that this isn't required at all, unless one wishes to unlock extra 
 outfits to dress up their girl in Maniac mode. Though what makes this far more frustrating is that 
 all minigames that only had one stage to complete are now beyond tedious, forcing players to complete 
 the minigame 3 times, each time for representing the level of the latter difficulty. (Normal to 
 Hard to Hell) Though the issue is that since the last two are similar for the most part, they will 
 feel to be the same task most of the time, seeing how Hell mode forced players to do the difficult 
 stage with only one life.
  
  There are many features to this game, such as the new wireless capabilities to the compatibility 
 test, in which you and another person enter your information and attempt to do a minigame together 
 to try and create a baby by poorly (odds are you will) attempting to slice a cake. Multiplayer modes 
 are fun, but weren't very expanded upon, seeing how there are only a handful of minigames to play 
 with another player. With so much to offer, this game could have been excellent if it weren't for 
 one thing: Originality. 'Feel the Magic' was a very fun minigame oriented game that took advantage 
 of the DS's functions. 'The Rub Rabbits!' feels like the same exact thing, only with plenty of 
 improvements. If anyone has played the first title, then they already know what to expect from 
 this one. If you don't mind taking the similar adventure a second time, then you'll find yourself 
 a bit intrigued by the latter storyline, regardless that you possibly saw it coming.
  
  All in all, this game takes advantage of the DS once more, though without the originality that 
 'Feel the Magic' shined with. But even still, it is a very fun title to play, so I'd advise anyone 
 to pick this game up. Thank you for taking the time to read my Great Wall of text review, which 
 I am sorry for typing so much...
  
  ~SomeOddGuy 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jcap669
Rating: 8.5
Date: Feb 14, 2008 8:00 pm PT
Review:  
  your objective in this game is to get this girl which you have a crush on to like you. you do some 
 fun random minigames that gets harder every time you complete. after you completely finished a 
 level, you will unlock another minigame that somehow connects to the story. the game is quite hard 
 and will surely make you scream in anger when you fail.
  
  there are other features such as "Maniac" which lets you dress-up and lets you design your own 
 clothes for her. "Baby making" is a multi-player game that asks you some questions about you and 
 your crush or your girlfriend, then after, you have to cut a cake to find out what kind of baby 
 you will make. "Attack" is some kind of time attack mode. "Memories" is a section which lets you 
 play the games you have unlocked with one life bar and 5-10 difficulties. "Connect" lets you play 
 wireless multi-player (download play) with friends which have the same cartridge. "Hulla Balloo" 
 is another multiplayer game that requires a set of players to hold, let-go, touch the buttons and 
 the touch screen which in the end makes you hold hands with someone. And finally, "Sound" which 
 you unlock when you finish the game that plays all the sound effects and music that you heard in 
 previous levels.
  
  the graphics arent that great. the cutscenes are just pictures. but the graphics of this game is 
 enough to make you enjoy.
  
  the sound is GREAT!, funny songs, funny sound effects. 
  
  overall, the game is great but some levels of the game are almost impossible to complete 
::::::

::::::
UserName: UnknownHedgehog
Rating: 6.6
Date: May 1, 2007 9:39 am PT
Review:  This is the prequel to Project Rub, a funny action game created by Sonic Team. Like in the previous 
 game, you will encounter many minigames in which you need to complete to win the heart of another 
 beautiful woman. In the beginning, you will compete against a group of men to get the girl. After 
 that, your old college-friend will go chasing after you (like Amy Rose does) and also make plans 
 to get rid of your girlfriend. You will need to co-operate with the group of men to make sure your 
 girlfriend is safe.
  
  This game contains a few new features that weren't in Project Rub. In Memories Mode, now the Boss 
 Battles and Love Scenes have 3 levels instead of 1. Brand-new Maniac Mode not only lets you change 
 the girl's clothes, but it also lets you change her hair colour and make your own design for a 
 shirt or a bikini.
  
  Also available, Hullaballoo Mode. You need to hold down and let go various buttons. This is pretty 
 much similar to MB Games' Twister except you use your hands. Also, you can enjoy viewing your own 
 virtual babies in Baby Making Mode. All you do is answer questions and then cut a cake. You can 
 get a different baby with different answers. You don't play with the babies however. You just keep 
 them as orniments... just something to look at.
  
  Now you can enjoy multiplayer rubbing action with Connect Mode. Either compete against each other 
 with 6 different minigames, or trade shirt designs and let your babies play with others in the 
 park.
  
  To sumarize, I must say this is miles better than Project Rub, judging the graphics and the gameplay. 
 It may not be the most addictive DS game, but it can be addictive to those who enjoyed Project 
 Rub. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: HappyInvader101
Rating: 8
Date: Aug 14, 2006 10:38 am PT
Review:  Segas hit perverted sex escapade is back, with more perversion! Rub Rabbits is in fact a (possible 
 spoiler) prequel (spoilers end) to Feel the Magic. The Rub Rabbits starts out nearly the same way 
 as the other game, Boy meets girl, boy falls in love with girl, boy must get girl. Except this 
 time you arent the only one, a group of your later friends fall in love with her as well. And for 
 another twist, another girl meets the boy and and falls in love with him. So she kidnaps your friends 
 and brainwashes them, making them try to capture you (is it me or was that last sentence full of 
 bad grammer?) . Well the mini games are as fun as usual, some are a lot more perverted and original 
 though, some include shooting enemys down from the air with your blowgun, you use the touch screen 
 to move your and and blow into the touch screen to shoot, isnt that "nifty"? Other games involve 
 "keeping your girlfriend warm" poking her, fighting off a killer bear, and loads of fun perverted 
 and strange mini-games. But most of the mini games are quite simple, you can complete them within 
 1-5 trys and by the time you unlock hard mode you will most likley of lost intrest. There are some 
 other game modes as well, including multiplayer, making babys, where you and your girlfriend make 
 a baby by anwering questions, and cutting a cake, and maniac mode where you dress up your girlfriend 
 and poke at her. The graphics are good and clean like the first ones were. The sound even varies 
 a bit more but it usually uses the same track unless you are playing a love scene or a boss. The 
 game is pretty lengthy as well, i think its 36 stages, however some stages are rehashed from the 
 first one and are the same thing over again, except a bit harder. Overall the game does succed 
 in beeing better than the first but it keeps some of the same flaws the first has.
  
  Im sure the spelling errors are plentiful so find them and guess what they are. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: RedPanther95
Rating: 7.2
Date: Jun 28, 2006 8:21 am PT
Review:  The Rub Rabbits is the sequel to Feel The Magic. Both games are good. Both are mini-game collections 
 that take full use of the DS' functillonally. Both games give you the chance to get the girl from 
 you rivals. Both games are really fun. But only The Rub Rabbits does nothing from what the sequel 
 did. While you have to admit this game is fun. You also have to admit the story is really good. 
 Now let's head to the review.
  
  Gameplay: The gameplay of this game is completly like the sequel with only one new mode the baby-making 
 mode where you and your girlfriend if you have one make a baby out of a cake. So that's where babies 
 come from. Well I guess you learn something new everyday. The game takes full use of the DS' capabilities. 
 The mini-games use the touch-screen and microphone alot!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!! But now there is a 
 big bull. COOOOOOOOOOOOL! LOL! OMG! Haha. The big bull is kinda like the final boss.
  
  Graphics: The graphics are just like the oringal's. The silhouttes are still faceless and nice 
 looking while now if only they'd make an AO verision I'd buy it. JOKE! But I would buy it.
  
  Sound: The music and voices are just like the oringal. Same thing.
  
  Value: It is so much 
 like the oringal which hurts it alot. ALOT! ALOT! 
  
  Tilt: Hoping for something better but this game is really fun so you should rent it! Or borrow 
 it from a friend. 
  
  7.2 good. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sinnap
Rating: 7.1
Date: Aug 12, 2006 1:24 pm PT
Review:  Some of the levels are very hard and even though there's an option to skip a level, if you go back 
 and beat the level later on, you do not regain the option! 
  In fact, I'm finding one level in particular so challenging that I'm playing the game over again 
 cause I've already used my skip option on a previous level!
  I love the music and overall style of the game and its one of the best I've seen for the DS considering 
 the systems limitations!
  Also theirs a baby making mode where you can make a baby with a friend. Though kinda fun, I wish 
 it either tied into the game somehow or had more going on.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: YamataDragon
Rating: 10
Date: May 4, 2006 6:14 pm PT
Review:  The Rub Rabbits! is the sequal to the game Feel The Magic: XY/XX. In the original, you must win 
 the girl of your dreams buy saving and impressing her. This game is the sequal. You are after the 
 girl of your dreams while trying to stop other guys from getting to her. Also, another girl is 
 trying to get YOU. She is trying to take YOUR dream girl out of the picture. You must stop her 
 as well. A real challenge. Imagine if this happened to you in real life. You would have to be around 
 your girl all the time to make sure you she is yours. I recommend this game to all those who want 
 to see what it would be like if you had to do that in real life. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Foolio1
Rating: 7.2
Date: Mar 15, 2006 6:23 pm PT
Review:  Back when the DS was released, people were really unsure of what kinds of things the unique hardware 
 of this system could bring to games. The earliest indication of this was with Sega's Feel the Magic: 
 XY/XX. Using a combination of the system's features, it showed some potential for future projects. 
 With so many new games that have come out since, it doesn't feel quite as monumental as it did 
 at the system's launch. The same holds true for The Rub Rabbits!, which comes off as just more 
 of the same.
  
  The story is very similar to that of Feel the Magic. You play as a male protagonist who catches 
 a glimpse of a beatiful girl. Instantly falling in love you her, you begin to pursue her trying 
 to impress her with crazy stunts to win her affection. But this time around you're in competition 
 with a number of other guys. And if that wasn't enough, a chance encounter with a second female 
 character has her falling for you and eventually trying to "rub" the first girl out of the picture 
 to get you all for herself.
  
  All of the crazy mini-games stem from this bizarre love story. This is one of those games that's 
 very Japanese in style, something like Katamari Damacy or Chibi-Robo. The now standard characters 
 are still presented in that iPod style showing only their silhouettes. Some characters are lucky 
 enough to get some extra detail though. Overall this is a highly stylized game, just like Feel 
 the Magic was. There are a few videos, but just about all of the story is presented with pictures 
 in sort of a manga style. There's hardly any dialog, none of which is spoken, but the pictures 
 do a perfectly fine job of advancing the story.
  
  During gameplay the graphics look very nice. The Rub Rabbits! uses a combination of 2D and 3D effects 
 in the different stages like in Feel the Magic. This time however, it uses a lot more 3D graphics 
 that give it a much better overall look from Feel the Magic. Slathered all over are plenty of bright 
 and vibrant colors that top off the game's fun look and really give it some personality.
  
  Sound quality is fantastic. The quality is superb, but many of the effects sometimes are just plain 
 strange, or very annoying. One example is the odd yelping noise emitted by the game's main character. 
 In some of the mini-game you'll be hearing this much more than you might care to and gets annoying 
 very quickly. Some of the sound is borrowed from the first as well. The game's music is also light-hearted 
 and up-tempo that fits perfectly with the look of the game. Unfortunately the songlist is a little 
 short and you'll hear a lot of the same songs repeating a lot throughout the game.
  
  Most of the content of The Rub Rabbits! comes in the game's Story Mode, which unfortunately is 
 where the game seems to go downhill. It may be nice to look at, but underneath its unique style 
 there just isn't much there. There is a little over 35 different scenes, most of them not lasting 
 very long. Being a sequel you would think there would be some more content to the main story, but 
 in the end is just about as short as the first game. While there can be a decent variety in the 
 games, some of them seem like duplicates from Feel the Magic or are repeated in The Rub Rabbits!. 
 The story sequences are also far too frequent. Feel the Magic would usually send them in a couple 
 at a time. Instead the Rub Rabbits! gives you one game, then more story and really breaks up the 
 action too much.
  
  Some more problems stem from some problems with stylus control. Too often it isn't as precise as 
 it should be. Feel the Magic wasn't perfect, but it also wasn't this bad. Some times it can be 
 difficult to control whats happening in the game the way you want and can really be frustrating. 
 Still, the game can be entertaining at times. One of the most interesting parts is when some games 
 have you hold the DS sideways or upside down, not many games offer that.
  
  The Rub Rabbits! manages to improve upon the content of the game even if the Story Mode falls a 
 little short. Some mini-games are available that allow multiple players on one DS system with Hullabaloo, 
 a button pressing game, and Baby Making Mode where two players must cooperate to cut a wedding 
 cake and make a baby. There are also six multiplayer games that only requires one game card to 
 play with. A returning mode is Maniac which lets to dress up the games female lead in different 
 outfits and this time even lets you create your own patterns. These modes are a decent addition 
 to the somewhat lacking content of the game, but in the end dont add a ton of value to the title.
 
  
  At the end of the game, The Rub Rabbits! may have you wonding what happened to the magic of Feel 
 the Magic. After finishing the story mode there just isn't much left. Some improvements on the 
 mini-games and just adding some more content could have made the game really shine, but just comes 
 off as a half-hearted attempt to carry on the series. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: filmore007
Rating: 6.1
Date: Feb 28, 2006 12:28 pm PT
Review:  I have to say I played the first one and this one is just not the same. At lease Feel the Magic 
 was challenging. Rub Rabbits doesn't hold anything to it. They made it way to easy to beat. I've 
 only been playing it a short while and I'm already near the end. I think they could have done better. 
 The story line is okay and some of the scenes are challenging but not enough to keep the game fun. 
 The graphics where okay for the nintendo ds. I was all around disappointed playing this game. The 
 game does have a lot of mini games which makes it a game you can play over and over again. Which 
 is why it's not a total waste of money. However the amount of time it takes you to beat the actual 
 story is very disappointing. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: NyJeo723
Rating: 8
Date: Nov 21, 2007 9:10 pm PT
Review:  This is definitly a fun game. The story is great and unique. The soundtrack is unique and the graphic 
 are great. There is also a multiplayer mode where u and friends hold the DS at the same time and 
 also where u and a "special friend" cut a cake and a baby comes out from it (baby making mode) . 
 
  
  Overall this game is worth buying and its only $29.99=] . Great buy and great game. The Rub Rabbits! 
 isn't great as a sequel but amazing on its own. I would recommend this game too people that haven't 
 played Feel The Magic xx/xy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: fft_ramza
Rating: 8.6
Date: Feb 14, 2006 5:01 pm PT
Review:  This game is a great sequel to the original million seller Feel The Magic XY/XX DS game, it takes 
 fully advantage of the mighty DS features, it has a very cool ''look'' and ''style'', it features 
 different minigames and a story mode that will keep you smiling every single second you play it.
 
  
  The story mode stretches out to more than 35 minigames, though a few of the later games are merely 
 repeats of earlier ones. The minigames are all meant to portray simple, singular tasks. You'll 
 test your memory by watching your girlfriend poke you in specific spots, then poke her right back 
 the exact same way. In another you'll toss your girlfriend up into the air with an upward stroke, 
 she'll grab a bunch of fruit, and then you must catch her by positioning yourself under her with 
 the stylus. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
