-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: The Sims 2: Pets
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/ds/strategy/thesims2pets/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 Good selection of cute cats and dogs.
 nice use of the touch screen for interacting with objects and people.
 can trade items with friends.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 Number of specific care and play options is fairly limited.
 doing the same things gets old fast.
 animals seem bored and lethargic.
 graphics are crisp but plain.
 too much elevator music, too few animal noises .
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Nov 20, 2006
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 4.5
Critic Score: 4.7, 4 Review (s)
User Score: 5.9, 245 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: EA Games
Developer: Maxis
Genre: Virtual Life
Date: Oct 31, 2006
ESRB: Everyone

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
The Sims 2: Pets for the DS feels limited and repetitive, and it lacks the heart that any good pet-care 
 sim must have. 

  Thanks to Nintendogs, pet simulators have entered the mainstream. People love them, probably because 
 they simulate the experience of having a pet without requiring the time and effort that real animals 
 do, and they don't make you clean up nasty accidents either. Electronic Arts' entry into the pet-raising 
 genre is The Sims 2: Pets, which is available for numerous systems, including the Nintendo DS. 
 What's interesting about the DS version of the game is that it casts players into the role of veterinarian 
 and places a greater emphasis on the care and grooming of animals. That's quite a focus shift from 
 the other versions, which incorporate pets and pet-related jobs into the traditional humanoid sim 
 blueprint. You'd think, then, that the DS game would deliver the superior pet-rearing experience, 
 since it lets players spend more time interacting with their animals and less time doing silly 
 tasks like holding a job or hanging out with other sims. Unfortunately, it doesn't work out that 
 way. While you do get plenty of opportunities to interact with a menagerie of cats and dogs, the 
 number of different options available during those interactions is rather limited. At the same 
 time, the animals themselves don't display much in the way of personality or playfulness in response 
 to your efforts.  

          In the DS version of The Sims 2: Pets, you have to diagnose, treat, groom, and play with 
 the animals that other sims bring to you.     

  Everything starts out on the right foot. After you pick out a human sim and select an accompanying 
 pet from a list of cats and dogs, you'll find yourself standing in the middle of a small house 
 that's been converted into a vet's office. Your sim and its pet both have needs that you need to 
 monitor and take care of. You'll have to tell your sim to use the bathroom, to take showers, to 
 sit down, and to cook and eat food. For your sim's pet, you'll have to tell the sim to feed it, 
 give it a bath, groom it, and take it to the park for play and exercise. The controls make use 
 of the touch screen extensively, such that you usually only need to tap an object twice to make 
 your sim do something. Time moves more quickly in the game than it does in reality, but it only 
 takes a minute or two to tend to the needs of your Sim and its pet each day. You'll spend much 
 more time playing the role of veterinarian. Other sims are constantly bringing their cats and dogs 
 to you, and you have to diagnose and treat their illnesses and provide various grooming services. 
 When the owners come back to pick up their pets, they'll pay you money and sing your praises to 
 others. Ultimately, the goal is to become a renowned vet and use the money you earn to expand the 
 house and fill it with the best gadgets and furniture money can buy.  

  Once you've spent a couple of in-game days keeping your Sim happy and caring for animals, boredom 
 begins to set in as you realize that you're constantly doing the same limited set of actions over 
 and over again. To diagnose an animal, you take it over to the table and rub it, brush it, or look 
 it over with the stethoscope and X-ray until the game tells you what the problem is. To treat an 
 animal, you simply need to feed it the proper medicine, bandage it up, or take it over to the bathing 
 or grooming stations. All of these actions require that you grab and manipulate tools using the 
 touch screen, but the process isn't so interesting when you end up doing the same four or five 
 tasks constantly. As it is, animals in the game only ever come down with one of five unique maladies. 
 Going for a walk or playing with a pet is slightly more enjoyable, since you can pick out a toy 
 to play with or choose a trick to see, but even then you're limited to a small selection of toys 
 and tricks. Basically, none of the game's interactive aspects are as fleshed out as they should 
 be.  

          The animals act as if they're bored. They certainly don't frolic like the dogs in Nintendogs 
 do.     

  The incessant repetition wouldn't be so bad if the atmosphere was upbeat or if the animals were 
 fun to watch. The atmosphere, however, isn't upbeat. It's dull, and the cats and dogs are about 
 as lively as a pet that's just woken up from a midday nap. On the technical side, the game puts 
 the system's 3D abilities to work generating the house, the park, and all of the trees and furniture 
 situated within those environments. Nothing really moves in the environment, though, except for 
 the people and animals, and they don't move much to begin with. Sims will throw tantrums if you 
 let one of their needs go for too long. Otherwise, they just walk from one spot to the next and 
 wave occasionally. If you have your sim take a shower, for instance, they'll just get in and step 
 out after a few seconds. There's no elaborate flourish of water and scrubbing like you'd see in 
 one of the regular The Sims games. By the same token, the animals look cute and furry, and have 
 big, expressive eyes, but they hardly do much but wag their tails and wander about halfheartedly. 
 The kitties and pooches in The Sims 2: Pets definitely do not jump and frolic like the dogs in 
 Nintendogs do.  

  There aren't enough sound effects to go around, either. For all of the 20 different animals, there 
 are only a few different purr, bark, and meow noises, which are heard sparingly. Your human Sim 
 will also speak up and utter some gibberish when they're talking to another Sim or they're annoyed 
 by something. Mostly, though, you're stuck listening to the knockoff elevator music that's always 
 playing in the background.  

  It's nice that The Sims 2: Pets incorporates some veterinary aspects that we haven't seen in other 
 pet-care games. Beyond that, however, it's limited, it's repetitive, and it lacks the heart that 
 a game in the genre really must have to appeal to the kind of person that's looking for this sort 
 of game.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (21 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: JTpcwarrior
Rating: 2
Date: Apr 5, 2009 6:35 pm PT
Review:  I got this game because I liked the PC version and wanted a somewhat close port to the original. 
 but I have the say it has reached a lower level of SUCK than any ds game I have played to date.
 
  
  sound: 2 (good music but then gets repetitive)
  
  graphics: 3
  
  story: 1
  
  gameplay: 1
  
  probably lasted about 2 days because that's how long it took to get into the 
 most expensive house and after that I had done everything and you know what? I probably haven't 
 even touched my dog I created! What is the point to having your own pet if it never needs anything!? 
 it was terrible and my sister is a bigger fan of the sims than I am and when I got sick of it I 
 handed it to her and she only played it for a day or two. All I'm saying is if you want a ds game 
 close to the PC version get age of empires. (which rocks.) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: chrizmol
Rating: 1.5
Date: Aug 15, 2008 4:14 am PT
Review:  The Sims2 Pets for the DS is likely to disappoint even those who are fans of the franchise. The 
 Sims franchise is known for its fun social game, but it turns into a disaster after the release 
 of Sims 2 Pets on the DS. At first u will probably think that SimsPets on the DS is a great game 
 following the footsteps of its predecessors, but Sims 2 Pets on the DS is the exact opposite and 
 the most annoying of the franchise. When I first played this horrifying (yes horrifying) game I 
 was disappointed by the chunky low res textures and the bland and ugly level design. I think that 
 the developers could have took some time to work on the games visuals and sound to take advantage 
 of the DS hardware and increase the diffrent interaction and gameplay in the game. The sound of 
 the game is also disappointing because it does not take advantage of the DS's speakers. In terms 
 of lifespan u will probably play the game for only a week. U will also get annoyed by the terrible 
 camera of the game that even makes the game more disturbing and frustrating. Sims2 Pets for the 
 DS is not a worthy game to buy or to rent, I suggest u spend ur money on other games. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: virgo89
Rating: 1
Date: Jul 26, 2008 5:37 pm PT
Review:  You would think that for it to be a sims game that it would be fun. Well I am here to tell you, 
 dont waste your money or get your hopes up. This game is purely a waste of time. Dont even use 
 it for a time killer, because you'd be wasting time!!! Especially those whohave pets.. go play with 
 the real thing cause this will be the biggest dissapointment of your life. Its like a parent who 
 spends all their time trying to get you into a good college and then you tell them you dont want 
 to go. I wish I had never bought the stupid game and saved my money for a better sims version for 
 my PC. The graphics are horrible and its just absoulutely mediocre. You can't even freeroam except 
 in the park area, and you cant even go far there. You would think that the game would be based 
 around the sims just with pets, but no. You can teach the pets tricks, but at no benefit. It doesnt 
 affect the dog either way, so dont waste your time or energy to do it. Basically you're a vet taking 
 care of pets all day, unless thats your passion to be a vet.. don't even bother with it. In the 
 end you'll just throw it in the back of your drawer or closet and never play it again. Go buy something 
 else, heed my warning. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gamerbrad1
Rating: 4
Date: Jul 7, 2008 2:13 pm PT
Review:  The Sims 2 Pets for DS Wasn't what I expected to be. It was Horribble. DONT BUY IT!!!
  
  It shows nothing what so ever to taking care of a pet. All it does is put you into a life of a vet 
 and you have to take care of other peoples pets. It was very disappointing when I bought it. It was 
 just a waste of money.
  
  The Graphics are horrible there is barely any detail to that game. So my Rating of the Graphics 
 are 3.0 out of 10.0.
  
  THE GOOD: Good selection of cute cats and dogs. nice use of the touch screen for interacting with 
 objects and people. can trade items with friends. 
  
  THE BAD: Number of specific care and play options is fairly limited. doing the same things gets 
 old fast. animals seem bored and lethargic .graphics are crisp but plain. too much elevator music, 
 too few animal noises . 
  (the good and the bad reviews are from gamespots review)
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Nintendo_freek
Rating: 1
Date: May 11, 2008 12:53 pm PT
Review:  Wow. Another virtual life game. Being me, I like virtual life games, sims in particular. The DS 
 sims was pretty good, but not great. If it wasnt for the awesome PC expansions, I'd say EA and 
 maxis have lost their touch completely.
  
  Come now, I'll put these facts in an easy to read format for those dumb enough to like it.
  
 
  Good parts:
  The lack of good parts means I dont get to write much and saves me time. Yey!
  
  Bad parts:
 
  
  I spent a lot longer on the game than time saved trying to find a good part.
  Hilary duff looks like everyone else, if it wasnt for the name, id have missed it.
  A really 
 bad attempt at 3D
  There are so many bad parts, its wasting my time, so I'll stop
  
  If you find it in a bargain bin for less than 50p then go for it. Unless that shop sells quavers. 
 Quavers pwn. Anyway, to save yourself from suicide-inducing remorse, then avoid this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: columbia93
Rating: 4
Date: Apr 11, 2008 10:21 am PT
Review:  Initially I was excited as am an avid Sims players. Starts out you get to design your own pet. 
 Unfortunately, once the game started, your precious pet is put in the same silly closed up chamber 
 as the other sick animals. Interaction is limited so I ended up put "Precious" in storage. Maybe 
 I missed something?
  
  I was able to get through the limited levels fairly quickly. The three available houses were silly 
 - the final one being large and difficult to maneuver. You could take yourself (and an animal) 
 to the park but that was pretty futile and exhausting. I felt like the cooking was an add-on... too 
 much was required for something that didn't fit in with the vet idea. I mean, from 4/5 o'clock 
 until morning, your Sim just didn't really exist so why bother with these difficult meals! Eat 
 breakfast and dinner at home and pack a lunch!
  
  Speaking of, I really expected to have more interactions with other sims in this game. If they 
 had a night life, friends, family, etc., I would have been fine with the other limitations. This 
 might be a good game for a much younger player... my 14 year old niece liked it better than I but 
 even she got a little bored. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: coolestkid200
Rating: 1.5
Date: Dec 28, 2007 11:40 am PT
Review:  RUBBISH!
  
  its terrible! Okay, first off the graphics are pretty crummy and you cant build relationships AT 
 ALL (Not even with your animals, which makes it ridiculous) its just really sad. AND the patients 
 always say the same stuff each time- 'my pet is ill' Or 'Oh no!' thats all they say one of those 
 two.
  
  This is really the worst game ever. the only reason i got it was because the sims 2 pets was really 
 awsome on the PS2 (it was like the original sims 1) But oh boy.... I WAS WRONG.... eee... was i 
 so wrong.
  
  Dont get this game im telling you now its just so repetitive- in fact i would rather prefer to 
 play ( i am serious here) a mario game for the NES or the original gameboy or even 1970s tv plug 
 in- pong! Seriously!
  
  
  And to be quite, i honestly cant think of any good points, however i would give it a 1. but the 
 reason i gave it a 1.5 is only because you can customise your house but even that is complicated 
 and a let down and it is also very limited, and this game is appaling i seriously think some (well 
 attualy most) Gameboy games (original gameboy) are better! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: x_rosie_x
Rating: 3.5
Date: Aug 27, 2007 11:21 am PT
Review:  Having owned a few other sims games, I thought that this game would be reay good! Unfortunately 
 I would say this is not true. The story line is very basic and very repetative. When you start 
 off paying, you create your sim and your pet. You do not get a very good choice of clothing and 
 the facial features can only be described as wierd. Also when you are creating your puppy or kitten, 
 it does not tell you what to do and i found it quite confusing.
  Then when it comes to actually playinfg the game, this is also disappointing. As the patients come 
 and go you fell a rush to try and get your rating higher as fast as you can and you want to raise 
 enough cash to get a better house. I found this very easy and within about three days of playing 
 the game i had the biggest house you could get and the highest rating. The examination and treating 
 of the pets is very boring as there are only about six different illnesess to diagnose. The only 
 illness that is actually fun to treay is when an animal has swollowed something and you have to 
 extract it and this only happens rarely.
  Unlike the other games, you cannot really earn friendship levels with people. There are very few 
 social options and you cannot become friends, move in with or marry anyone in it.
  
  I do not like really hard games that are impossible to finnish but this way far too easy. I would 
 not reccomend buying this game but the normal Sims 2 ds looks quite good although i have not tried 
 it. If you can though i would reccomend playing sims on playstation or on a comuter. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sugarcandysin
Rating: 6.5
Date: Aug 20, 2007 12:15 pm PT
Review:  I got this game yesterday.... it's not as bad as EVERYONE makes it sounds, but it's still pretty 
 plain and even a little boring and frustrating at times.
  
  Gameplay (7/10) -
  You're supposed to be a doctor who cares for dogs and cats and such! AKA, vet! It's also a hassle 
 to go to the shower, toilet, and all! Ugh!
  
  Graphics (8/10) -
  Graphics are great but plain. And you sometimes see some blurry things.
  
  Sound (5/10) -
 
  Weird soundtracks they got there. Sometimes the music can be good... but usually just plain boring 
 music.
  
  Value (6/10) -
  Something to play when you're bored.
  
  Reviewer's Tilt (6/10) -
  Not the best game, but it's not too bad either as everyone make it sounds.
 
  
  -TOTAL SCORE- (6.5/10) -
  I dunno why everyone has to make this game sound so bad. It's honestly not THAT bad, but it does 
 get boring. Get this game if you want. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: StreetSurfer
Rating: 1
Date: Aug 18, 2007 6:23 pm PT
Review:  If you've read my reviews, you would know that I did not like Nintendogs at all, though it can 
 be fun seeing all the puppies. But this game really has no good points. I've played most of the 
 Sims games and they are pretty cool, the way that you can control your own life. But this game 
 really just looks like they just put it together in a matter of minutes! First off, the gameplay 
 is horrifying! The game's goal is basically care for your own pet and also help cure others by 
 being a veterinarian. It really is a good idea, but the execution couldn't have been worse. There's 
 like a patient every second! Plus, you can't really play with your dog that much. Basically, it 
 is very very limited. Also, everything gets repetitive after a while. I give gameplay a 4. Because 
 though there are a lot of bad points to it, it is pretty entertaining curing the dogs and cats. 
 The graphics are ok, but not impressive. At least the dogs and cats really do look like cats and 
 dogs. The create-your-own pet is not that impressive either. When you mix two breeds, it doesn't 
 really look like a mix. It looks like only one of the two breeds you mixed. I would say, graphics 
 earn a 2. Ok, also, if you've read my reviews, you would know that I would comment on each category. 
 Beginning, gameplay, graphics, sounds, and conclusion. But let's face it, I wouldn't want to waste 
 my time on a game that really just sucks on each category, Sims, you really put a damper on this 
 one! In conclusion, just get Nintendogs instead of this one, even though I despise that game as 
 well. Trust me, you're not missing a thing. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: maguilonski
Rating: 1
Date: Jul 31, 2007 1:54 pm PT
Review:  What can I say of this game well theres a Word for it and this Word is abysmal, its simple one 
 of the worst games on the DS. I got this game for Christmas and it is awful, after I played like 
 half an hour and I was already dying of its horrible gameplay, this game tries to be like a Nintendo 
 dogs but it fails horribly, I really do not recommend this game because its simply abysmal. THE 
 CREATORS OF THIS GAME WHERE HIGH!!!!!!!!. I give this game a 1.0 (Abysmal) .
  This was a Maguilonski review for all you gamers out there. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lilhawkkid182
Rating: 2.4
Date: Jun 18, 2007 6:43 pm PT
Review:  When Sims 2 Pets became available for me on the NDS, I was a bit skeptical, since I am not a big 
 fan of The Sims 2, and I never tried Pets. I figured that it was worth a try since I did not like 
 Goldneye Rouge Agent on the consoles, but I enjoyed it on the DS. The Sims 2: Pets is a boring 
 game. The repetativness makes me want to chuck my DS. After twenty minutes of playing the game 
 I was bored of it already. That is because you do the same thing every five minutes. This is not 
 like the PC and console versions, because you are set to a rutine you have to follow. This leaves 
 no room for just having fun with your Sim, so it really takes away from the purpose of it being 
 a Sims game. Unless you are six and you'll get excited when Hillary Duff shows up and lets you 
 take care of her dog, than just skip this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Nickygean
Rating: 6.8
Date: Jan 23, 2007 6:35 pm PT
Review:  So far this game isnt bad, I like the idea of playin a vet and having ur own place and what not, 
 But the graphixs really suck, And ive had it freeze on me twice. I wish there was somethign more 
 you could do with the pets to, Not just the simple things, But it is fun and the time does dissapear 
 when u play it like every sims game ever, Say ull play 1hr and boom 3hrs later =.= And the animals 
 could use some diff type's and they need more diff types of things, Only one out of like 100 pets 
 had somethin stuck in them -.- i want to get more free items, The shopping is a lil configglin 
 but u get used to it. And its easy to learn after a short time. Its worth the 35$ i spent i have 
 to say.. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jes77
Rating: 1.7
Date: Jan 22, 2007 11:47 am PT
Review:  this game is so bad for ds i think it is the worst game ever.
  next time Ea should make sims better for ds. if they could make a better game like sims 2 on pc 
 or something. they should make better games.
  every game they make on other systems are good besides gameboy and psp. they should get better 
 graphics and more gameplay. plus better stuff and even more stuff. I think that i could probly make 
 better games than that and i dont even know anything about creating video games.
  Next time they have to make a better game like final fantasy III. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sillygostly
Rating: 4.1
Date: Mar 11, 2007 4:58 pm PT
Review:  The Good : Great music.
  
  The Bad : Overly repetitive. Appalling graphics. Whatever happened to the good old days of The 
 Sims: Bustin' Out and The Urbz which were SO good? I would compromise 3D graphics for top-notch 
 gameplay anyday.
  
  Now, a lot of people like to compare EVERY pet related game to Nintendogs nowadays. Doesn't anybody 
 remember those adorable Catz and Dogz games?
  
  Now The Sims 2: Pets is a lot different than its PC counterparts, however, unlike the previous 
 2 DS instalments in The Sims franchise, The Sims 2 Pets stays closer to home (literally) in bringing 
 players a similar gaming experience to that of the PC version, as you no longer control your Sim 
 with the arrow keys, but Pets dons a point and click interface which allows you to click on an 
 object for your Sim to walk over to it and use it.
  
  Pets would have to be the worst of all the DS Sims games released to date. It lacks the depth of 
 the previous two games, as well as the rewarding gameplay that made it so much fun to play The 
 Sims on the go. In The Sims 2: Pets you are at home for the ENTIRE game. That's right. You can't 
 leave the house AT ALL. Except to go to the park, which is customizable albeit limited and pointless. 
 And your Sim can live in one of three houses. The latter two which can be purchased as your Sim 
 makes more money.
  
  Now, in this version of the game, you play the town vet. Patients bring your pets to you and you 
 need to diagnose them, although you can simply refer them to a specialist if you don't want to 
 bother with them. There are a limited range of diseases for cats and dogs in the game (Worms, Flu, 
 Fleas, Fractured Bones, Lodged Item) , and occassionally, pet owners will also send you their pets 
 because they are either smelly or ugly. 
  
  The diagnosis and treatment procedures are quite repetitive, although I really enjoy removing lodged 
 objects as it basically works as a claw machine game, and you need to remove the object that is 
 stuck inside the cat or dog.
  
  You can customize your Sim at the very beginning of the game by selecting their sex, weight, outfit 
 and face. Create-A-Sim mode is VERY *slightly* more feature packed than the last game, although 
 the outfits are absolutely hideous. But it's not just the outfits that are ugly, but the graphics 
 themselves for this game are just plain ugly. The Sims, cats, dogs and objects consist of VERY 
 low-polygon models and very simplistic textures. Although there are a decent selection of items 
 that you can buy from the in-game catalogue, the items lack detail and look horrible. But from 
 a distance, the interface and the graphics are passable as long as you don't zoom in the camera 
 too closely while playing.
  
  Teaching your cats/dogs tricks is as simply as hitting the right notes (literally) . And pets can 
 learn tricks in a matter of seconds. The tricks themselves are poorly animated, mainly due to the 
 low-polygon models, and I absolutely LOATHE the beg/dance/play dead animations, mainly due to the 
 fact that they drag on to the point that my body feels VERY uncomfortable. And get this, Pets with 
 fractured bones can ALSO learn tricks, BUT they can't play with toys. How ridiculous is that?! 
 :P
  
  Unlike the last game, the needs are back in Pets. Which means that you need to eat, pee, bathe 
 and sleep periodically. However, you'll find that your Sim will be sitting around and sleeping 
 multiple times a day when your Sim has nothing else to do. I've had moments in this game where 
 I basically stood around doing NOTHING either because I treated and pampered all my patients and 
 had nothing else to do with them, OR I had no patients to look after.
  
  The needs have been unrealistically implemented into this game as your Sim basically enters the 
 shower for a split second, without removing their clothing, and their hygiene need will be maxed 
 out, just like that. Stupid, huh? Same with their energy and bladder needs.
  
  Your Sims hunger can be filled easily and cost-effectively by buying a fridge or a microwave. However 
 if you want to play the cooking mini-game, you'll need a stove. The stove also requires ingredients, 
 which can be combined in any combination and cooked. But the effectiveness of how the food will 
 fill your hunger score would then by determined by how well you cook your food. Which is pretty 
 stupid since the food basically looks like a pile of turd and it doesn't make a difference how 
 or what you cook anyway. Despite the inclusion of various recipes.
  
  Despite the number of NPCs in the game, they all look very similar to one another, and thus lack 
 the personality of the previous two Sims games for the DS.
  
  The music in the game is very repetitive, however if you purchase a stereo, you can select a few 
 licensed tunes which sound really cool. However I would have appreciated it if they have also included 
 the Simlish version of Pussycat Dolls' Don't Cha , which was included in the PC/PS2/GC versions 
 of the game.
  
  Overall, The Sims 2: Pets for Nintendo DS just feels completely rushed, and lacks the personality 
 and fun factor of the previous games. This game just falls short in every way possibly in comparison 
 to its predecessors. Try one of the other versions of The Sims 2: Pets instead. Or, how about giving 
 The Urbz or The Sims 2 a go? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gameplaya123
Rating: 7
Date: Jan 9, 2007 8:01 pm PT
Review:  In The Sims 2: Pets, You take care of animals. Like every other sims game, You get to make a sim 
 character. Although, you do not have a lot of choices on what to wear, you can manage. After you 
 are done making your sim, it's time you make a pet. There are 10 different dogs and 9 different 
 cats. You have to name your pet, choose what body to get: mom's or dad's, choose what fur to have: 
 mom's or dad's, and finally, size of head, ears, lower body, and tail. Once you're done with that 
 you are pretty much set to start. Every time a person is in the waiting with their pet, you must 
 examie the patient. The owner of the dog/cat will say that their pet: smells bad, looks ill, or 
 is ugly. If they say their dog smells bad, all you have to do is: pick a shampoo, wash the dog 
 with water, apply soap. was with water again, and dry. This only requires 1 day. If the owner says 
 that their dog is ugly, all you have to do is buy the pet some clothes. This requires 1 day. If 
 the owner says their pet looks ill, that means something is wrong with the pet. The dog/cat may 
 have the flu. To cure the flu, you must give the patient medicine. This takes 3 days. If the patient 
 has a lodged item, you must tske it out by using the Extractor. This takes 1 day If the patient 
 has a broken bone/limb, you must buy the bandages and neck cone. After it is wearing it, leave 
 it alone. It needs rest. This requires 5 days. The patient may also have fleas. To cure this, all 
 you have to do is the same thing as a bath, only using flea shampoo once a day. This require 3 
 days. If the patient has worms, all you have to do is feed it worm-B-gone once a day. This requires 
 3 days. Other than just curing patients, you can train them to do tricks like: beg, dance, play 
 dead and more. You can also play with them. Just like any other Sims game, you need to eat, shower 
 use the toilet, etc. I think the gameplay is good. It might get boring after a while, but it is 
 fun. Good if you are bored. I don't have to explain gameplay much, since I basicly did already. 
 The graphics aren't too good, but you can still tell what is what. For sound, I put a six because 
 the dogs/cats don't bark/meow much. Sometimes they do though. Replay-value really depends if you 
 like it. It's fun, but sometimes gets boring. Overall, I think this game deserves alot more than 
 a 4.5. I think this is a good game. Especially if you are on the road, traveling. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: autumnleaf29
Rating: 2.5
Date: Dec 31, 2006 11:55 am PT
Review:  This is the first Sims 2 game I have gotten that was not a pc version. I was extremely disapointed. 
 This game was like 30.00 the same as a pc version but it has hardly any game play. I felt like 
 I was playing a game for a 4 year old. Here is basicly what you do. You are a vet and you have 
 to have a dog or cat. So it starts out letting you pick either e dog or cat. You do not have much 
 to pick from maybe 4 or 5 different breeds. so you live in a shaby house with a clinic in it. You 
 are open for buisness. oh by the way that pet you had to pick out is locked in a crate type thing 
 it is not free to run around.
  
  People come in saying the same thing either there pet stinks and just needs a bath or my pet looks 
 ill. So you brush it looking for dirt and flea's, put a scope on it to check for the flu, or feed 
 it checking for worms. blah blah blah. You can give the pet a bath to get fid of fleas and dirt. 
 you feed it worm medicine food to get rid of worms and you can give it flu medicine in a dropper 
 for the flu. You keep the pet for a few days give it back to the owner and they give you money 
 and your reputation goes up if you cured there pet. As you get money and have the room you can 
 purchase other diagnose equipment but trust me you will get bored of the game before you make enough 
 for that. You can only hold 3 pets at a time you already have a pet the game makes you get so you 
 only can care for 2 pets. Other things you can do it train the pet to do tricks by whistling . 
 You can play with them with a ball or frisbee. You can put the pet on a groomer table and dress 
 them up in expensive clothes. Ive trained peoples pets and groomed them and did not get any more 
 money or reputation for my trouble. Then you have the bothersome tasks of going to the bathroom 
 cooking and sitting on the couch. For cooking I just throw stuff in the pan cook it on medium for 
 2-3 min and she eats it. wow sounds like fun huh. I would sell it on ebay but im sure I would not 
 get close to what I paid for it so maybe I will let my daughter play it when she gets her own ds.
 
  Final words if you like the sims or have a extra 30.00 to waste buy the pc version. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Basher96
Rating: 5.8
Date: Dec 22, 2006 11:40 am PT
Review:  What a cute little game. Play with pets, play with yourself, feed pets... yeah we've seen this 
 before in Nintendogs. This game is basically a bad Sims game with cute dogs n kitties that give 
 it a little zazz. This game is fun for about 20 minutes, until you've found everything. Extremely 
 repetetive. The pets have no emotion. They're spawns of the devil, you can pet them for an hour 
 and they complain that its the wrong spot. Have you ever seen a dog upset that your petting it 
 wrong? Whats up with the big air tank kennel. Did PETA sue the game for having cages like normal 
 Pet Clinics? I borrowed this game from a friend, I got an enjoyable 20 minutes out of it. But I'm 
 sure its one of those games that can grow on you no matter how lame it is. But it didn't do it 
 for me. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DidiCardoso
Rating: 5.8
Date: Dec 3, 2006 7:58 pm PT
Review:  I had to start this review with a sort of clarification, since I'm sure review sites will soon 
 begin comparing The Sims 2 Pets to Nintendogs, if they even review it at all. The idea behind a 
 Sims game is the Sims mechanics that we are familiar with: fulfilling needs and motives, building, 
 furnishing. If you want a virtual pet, sure, you play Nintendogs. If you want a Sims-style vet 
 simulation, that's what The Sims 2 Pets for the Nintendo DS offers.
  
  This handheld Sims-branded game puts you in the shoes of a sim virtual vet in charge of a small 
 pet clinic. After going through a somewhat clumsy character creation screen with a decent amount 
 of hair, face and clothing options, and creating a pet for yourself, you arrive at your small lot 
 where furniture is already set out for you. Welcome to your pet care clinic!
  
  The game controls via the touch screen and the stylus, with the D-pad and buttons moving, zooming 
 and spinning the camera.
  
  Your job as a player is to monitor your Sim character and fulfill his or her basic needs. Sims 
 veterans such as myself already familiar with the greening up process won't have a problem finding 
 a short daily routine for the virtual doctor to go through before taking over the clinic's affairs. 
 Bladder, hygiene, comfort and energy are the same as always: use the toilet, shower, sit and sleep 
 to fulfill those needs. Social has a little trick up its sleeve, since you can interact with your 
 mail box to increase your social meter. As for hunger, get ready for a cooking mini-game.
  
  To cook, you need to obtain a recipe and respective ingredients. The recipe tells you what 
 you need to cook a certain dish, at what temperature and for how long. Once you attempt to cook 
 something, you need to keep moving the frying pan to keep the heat at the temperature it needs 
 and let it stay at that temperature for the time it requires to cook. However, mixing random ingredients 
 that don't make any particular recipe or cooking the food badly doesn't really matter, since the 
 sim will still eat it, which in the end makes this mini-game a little redundant.
  
  But the game doesn't focus the action on your sim, but on the pets instead. The core of the game 
 is in the veterinarian practice itself. As you run a clinic, now and again someone will walk in 
 with a sick pet for you to have a look at. Get used to this process, since it's what you will do 
 over and over to gain money, reputation, unlock items and eventually move to a bigger house and 
 buy better furnishings and vet supplies.
  
  Tapping the distressed pet owner brings up an interaction menu. You need to pick examine pet and 
 it will automatically take you to the examination table. The owner will tell you little about the 
 pet, only that it doesn't look good, it smells, or it seems ill, so it's up to the diagnosis tools 
 to find out what's wrong.
  
  The basic tools are the hand (for calming down nervous patients and improve their mood) , food bowl, 
 stethoscope and brush. The comb lets you check for fleas by repeatedly brushing the pet. The stethoscope 
 assesses general health and finds if a pet has the flu. Other tools will appear in the diagnosis 
 process if you have other advancements. If you buy the x-ray machine right away (I recommend it) 
 you will be able to snap a shot of the pet, if you get it to stand still, to look for fractures 
 or ingested items. A medicine tool appears if you have purchased flu medicine for pets so that 
 you can administer it.
  
  So, to sum it up... The x-ray detects swallowed objects and broken bones; the comb detects fleas 
 and hygiene problems; feeding reveals the hunger meter, finds worms and cures; stethoscope reveals 
 the flu and overall health; medicine cures the flu.
  
  After the diagnosis, you can admit the pet by tapping the large blue bin. You then pick how long 
 the pet should stay. If the pet isn't well by the time the owner comes by to pick it up, your reputation 
 goes down and you don't get paid. You can only keep up to three pets per kennel at any given time 
 (you can purchase additional kennels, but you need a bigger house to put them in) and if you have 
 no space for a new patient, you have to recommend them to another specialist.
  
  Every time you tap the blue kennel, you can monitor their health status, motives and skills. You 
 can pick them up at any time and take them to the appropriate station according to their illnesses. 
 If a pet has hygiene problems, it needs a few days and some good scrubbing. Take it to the sink 
 and bathe him with regular soap or comb it on the grooming table. If it has fleas, you must use 
 flea shampoo. To get rid of worms, feed the pet some worm-be-gone at the diagnosis or grooming 
 tables. To cure the flu, you need to administer the medicine on the diagnosis table. Curing broken 
 bones involves buying bandages, wrapping the pet up in them and placing a cone around their head 
 so they don't pull them out.
  
  To remove swallowed objects, you need to buy an Extractor, which is a pretty large machine. I removed 
 a couch and sink, and then moved the desk, stove and grooming table around so it could fit in the 
 clinic. The extractor is a pretty funny machine to use, since it pops a box around the body of 
 the pet and then it works like an arcade claw machine, diving for toys.
  
  Every treatment must be done every day, for a few days, except extraction. But at this point you're 
 wondering where to buy all these things. Thanks to the convenience of your computer and catalog 
 shopping, you can click on the desk and spend your simoleons in whichever way you please.
  
  You will want to purchase soap, dog and cat food, flea shampoo, de-worming food and flu medicine 
 as your first supplies. Once money starts flowing in, you can invest in some accessories for the 
 pets, which improve their appearance and add a little bonus to the vet bill. An alternative is 
 to buy supplies, patterns and a sewing machine and make some of those accessories yourself. Between 
 oversized sunglasses, socks, pants, tops, hats, an eye-patch or a mustache, pets can look pretty 
 ridiculous while on the grooming table, but as long as that appearance meter ranks high, their 
 owners will be happy.
  
  Aside from bathing, grooming and treating pets, you get to play with them and teach them tricks. 
 Playing ensures the pets' social meter goes up and puts them in a good mood. Teaching them tricks 
 outs you into a rhythm mini-game where you tap and hold down the stylus to mimic the notes on the 
 screen. Succeed three times and the pet will learn that particular trick. The more you teach them, 
 the better your payout at the end of a pet's stay.
  
  A major difference from other Sims games is that time skips after the clinic closes, so you only 
 control your character from 8 to 5.
  
  On the technical side, I expected a bit more from the graphics. Everything is rendered in full 
 3D, and there is good detail and definition on the house and furniture. But the characters and 
 pets are made of very low-polygon models and look pretty blocky. The animations aren't too bad 
 and I was especially amused by the dance and play dead tricks, but I expected cats and dogs to 
 react differently to a ball or another toy.
  
  Most of the sound effects are well done. Cat meows, dog barks, simmish are interesting to hear, 
 but the music will probably get to you quickly. You can either turn it off or change tunes by interacting 
 with the stereo. There were two sounds that seemed out of place to me, the shower and the blow 
 dryer. They could sound like a bunch of things, but not a shower or a blow dryer.
  
  Last but not least, once you've unlocked the largest house for yourself, there is little more to 
 do other than keep treating pets to earn money and buy the expensive furniture, so in the long 
 run, the game becomes repetitive. These problems aside, The Sims 2 Pets on the DS moves fluidly 
 and has the same open-ended type of gameplay that is the trademark of all The Sims titles. It's 
 a pocket vet with a sim component that you can play a little bit here, a little bit there, with 
 the advantage to save at any time, and the wi-fi feature lets you trade items in your inventory 
 with other players. If you have always wanted to care for and nurse four-legged friends to health 
 on the go, The Sims 2 Pets is your solution. But don't expect it to hold your interest for hours 
 at a time.
  
  Review text part of Grrlgamer. com. Full text and screenshots at:
  http://www. grrlgamer. com/review. php? g=sims2petsds 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jcspenny
Rating: 7.2
Date: Nov 25, 2006 9:38 am PT
Review:  The Sims 2 Pets for DS is nothing like I'd thought it would be, but that doesn't mean it is a terrible 
 game. Although it took me some time to adjust to the strange graphics and gameplay, it quickly 
 settled into something rather addictive.
  
  This game has some similarities to both The Sims and Nintendogs, but overall is nothing like either 
 one. In this game you play a vet who owns their own walk in clinic. Everyday other sims bring in 
 their sick or injured pets for you to diagnose and treat. Although this process is nothing more 
 than unrealistic mini games I find it kind of fun. diagnosing the pet you can either treat it yourself 
 or refer the patient to a specialist.
  
  The create a sim process is no where as detailed as the Sims 2 for Gamecube or PC, however, for 
 a handheld it's not bad. You also get to create your own dog or cat. The pets' graphics take some 
 getting used to. They're no where near as nice as Nintendogs and are much more cartoon like. However, 
 they aren't overly bad either.
  
  When you create your pet, however, there is very limited stuff you can do with it. Mostly, you'll 
 find that you don't have time for the pet and it will just take up space in your kennel and you 
 won't be able to hold as many patients. I usually just store my pet since it frees up space. Anything 
 you can do with your own pet you can do with the patients in your clinic, so owning your pet is 
 pretty pointless.
  
  The Sims' basic needs are still there but they are extremely easy to fill. Low hygene? Have your 
 sim stand for a milisecond in the shower (they don't even take their clothes off) and it will fill 
 up. Comfort gone down? Nap for 1 second and it will fill right up. There is also no mood bar, just 
 the 6 basic bars.
  
  There is also some repetiiveness in this game. Actually, a lot of it, but it doesn't get as old 
 as you'd expect. Mostly, you'll find people run out of things to say. When you ask the owner how 
 their pet is doing you'll see a lot of My pet looks ill! and quite a bit of My pet smells! My personal 
 favourite it My pet is ugly! The treat and diagnostic parts of the game are also repetitive, but 
 addictive at the same time.
  
  For the most part, I'd say that this is a great game for the true Sims addict. It's not for someone 
 who loves the classic PC versions. I've learnt that PC Sims lovers are way too critical and forget 
 that the DS id no where near as powerful as a PC. However, if you love, or even just like, the 
 console and handheld Sims games then this is the perfect addition to your collection. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: blackrytonite
Rating: 4.7
Date: Nov 15, 2006 11:49 am PT
Review:  The Sims 2: Pets revolves around your sim being a vet and taking care of animals. That's basically 
 it. You cannot have relationships in the game, you can only take care of animals in a similar way 
 that you take care of your dog in nintendogs.
  
  The game works like this: someone comes to your house/clinic, says that there is something wrong 
 with his/her cat/dog. You diagnose the pet by using a few tools, then you tell the owners how long 
 it will be to take care of the animal, and when they can come back to pick the animal up. After 
 that, you either give the pet medicine and continue that for a few days until the animal gets well, 
 or you bandage the pet to heal them, and you can put accessories on them and bathe them and feed 
 them. You can also pet the animal in the same way you can do it in nintendogs: using the stylus.
 
  
  Your sim also has the hunger, bladder, ect. meters but that doesn't do much to save the game. You 
 can cook for your sim, but it's easy to figure out how to do and each of the recipes fills up your 
 sim the same amount as each other. The whole game focuses on your house and the park. You cannot 
 go anywhere. You shop for supplies online. The graphics aren't that great, especially the animals. 
 The animals look ridiculous, especially when they are doing tricks.
  
  The controls for your sim are indirect and annoying. Overall, maxis should be ashamed of themselves 
 for ripping off nintendogs (which I sold to get this game) and for ruining what could have been 
 a great game, if it didn't lack depth. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
