-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: The Settlers
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/ds/strategy/thesettlers/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 When it works, it's charming and addictive.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 Frequent crashes and game-breaking bugs may make it impossible for you to complete the campaign.
 Lack of in-game tutorial and scanty manual will leave newcomers in the dark.
 Touch screen often doesn't register taps.
 Slooooow scrolling speed.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Sep 10, 2007
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 3.5
Critic Score: 3.8, 6 Review (s)
User Score: 4.6, 122 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Ubisoft
Developer: Blue Byte
Genre: Historic City-Building
Date: Aug 21, 2007
ESRB: Everyone

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
The solid roots of a charming series are buried under an avalanche of bugs and other issues. 
 

  The Settlers for the Nintendo DS is actually a port of 1996's The Settlers II for the PC, rather 
 than the original Commodore Amiga game. However, this is a blessing because the sequel let players 
 speed up the course of time, rather than suffer through the slogging tempo of the first game. Yet 
 there are few other things to be happy with in The Settlers on the DS. In fact, it's a buggy mess 
 of a port that will send most newcomers to the series screaming all the way back to their local 
 retailer. This is slipshod lip service to series fans who are willing to overlook multiple crazy 
 issues in favor of a nostalgic trip down memory lane. But even if you're one of those folks, you're 
 better off with your memories, rather than soiling them with this lazy port of a solid game.  

 
           Little boxes, on the hillside...      

  The Settlers is an economy-focused strategy game. Your goal is to expand your nation by taking 
 advantage of resource nodes and building a logical system of structures and transportation. To 
 do so, you plant flags and build roads between them, setting up a tag-team system in which residents 
 carry resources from one flag to the next. It can get remarkably complex, considering that keeping 
 your populace happy and healthy requires a web of roads and buildings to process all of the raw 
 goods into something useful. You also need to carefully prioritize what types of goods get transport 
 priority. There are military aspects, but they are secondary, and generally involve tapping on 
 a few buildings and letting things work themselves out.  

  If you're new to the series, the unusual web of flags and roads will be confusing at first. There 
 is no in-game tutorial, and the manual is simply abysmal. Consequently, if you don't know how to 
 play The Settlers going in, you'll need to rely on trial and error until you get things figured 
 out. Even once you get the basics down pat, you'll have to fiddle around with resource-distribution 
 priorities, structure placement, and more in order to avoid traffic jams and other issues.  

  If you aren't so new to the series, the DS port isn't going to do you any favors, either. The 
 DS menu interface is fine; it lets you flip the top and bottom screens at will to access distribution 
 graphs and system messages. But the touch-screen icons are amazingly imprecise, often not registering 
 taps, and the scrolling speed is sluggish. However, the worst part is the barrage of bugs you will 
 have to endure. If you zoom in or out, you risk crashing the game and losing progress. One mission 
 was impossible to complete until we turned off the sound effects, and we were never able to complete 
 a later one, which left us stranded in the middle of the Roman campaign.  

           ... little boxes made of ticky tacky.      

  These awful moments are commonplace, so 
 it's hard to say how the game made it past the testing phase. It's too bad, because when things 
 are moving at the proper gear, The Settlers is a charming and addictive experience. Watching your 
 workers go about their chores can be a delight, and a variety of cute animations makes it fun to 
 watch them at rest, too. This isn't a technical powerhouse, but the visuals and little midi tunes 
 are identical to the original Settlers II, and they get the job done just fine.  

  If you haven't played a Settlers game, steer clear of the DS release. It's far too frustrating 
 to deliver much enjoyment. If you're a fan, there are enough Settlers games that you don't need 
 to worry yourself with this one. It just seems as if things were slapped together with as little 
 work as possible. When it functions, The Settlers can be laid-back fun. But given that you never 
 know how far you're going to get before the next crash, why bother with such a pricey gamble?  
    
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (9 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: Flipyap28
Rating: 3.5
Date: Jun 16, 2008 1:24 pm PT
Review:  I was expecting this game to put a smile on my face when I heard settlers was coming to the DS 
 but my face dropped as soon as I got to the menu. The graphics are unfortunatley terrible and the 
 controls dont work properly. The sound at first seemed ok, the music seemed to be appropiate for 
 the game but then I realised there is only one song in the game which plays constantly as you build 
 your city. The game has no tutorial so if you are new to settlers you may have no idea what to 
 do, the game is also badly broken with glitches and is constantly slowing. The only good thing 
 I can say about the game is that there is still a little bit of what makes settlers fun in it if 
 you can get past the annoying glitches which did last me up to about an hour of playing before 
 I realised most of the stuff it says you can do you cant. If you are even thinking there is a chance 
 you will like this game, you wont. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sjesseph
Rating: 4
Date: Dec 21, 2007 9:48 pm PT
Review:  I saw herd about this game before it came out and thought it looked like something I might want 
 to try, However... Once I got this game the first thing I noticed was how bad the graphics were 
 and the sound was not much better. Now I know there is more to games then just the graphics so 
 I moved past it and gave it a try. I can not tell you too much about this game because to be honest 
 I could not figure out what it was I was supose to be doing. I thought this game was hard and did 
 not turn out to be something I wanted to play. I gave this game to my son who is 13 and likes these 
 kind of games and it was pretty hard for him as well, He stuck with it and did figure out what 
 to do and played it for a few weeks but never really seem to love it, Needless to say this game 
 was passes around to all of my five kids and only 3 of them knew how to play it and it slowly ended 
 up back in the case where it sits and will soon be going back to the game store. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mystical_Me
Rating: 1
Date: Oct 7, 2007 8:52 am PT
Review:  I bought this game with high expectations and I have been bitterly dissapointed. I am new to the 
 setllers experience and I found that it is not easy to follow, no clear instructions. The game 
 its self crashes if you mess too much with the menus, I restarted only to find halfway through 
 the roman campaign that it crashed again this time my workers looked like they were posing for 
 a still life drawing. I hate this game it doesn't play well, no clear instructions and no matter 
 how hard I try I cannot complete the roman campaign. Please don't buy as you will be bitterly disappointed 
 . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: XDsammy
Rating: 4
Date: Sep 29, 2007 11:31 pm PT
Review:  I traded in 4 games at my local Gamestop for this.... Wow, what a waste of money. At first, i did'nt 
 know how to play, and the only thing the manual is good for is to use as toilet paper, and even 
 then it stil hurts your butt : ( Anyway, i finaly get a game going good, and it's fun. Untill the 
 game freezes when i zoom out and back in. So i punch my DS and throw it on the couch for a week 
 to teach it a lesson. And you CAN NOT finish the campaign, no lie. It either freezes up or pisses 
 you off to the extent that you want to commit suicide. So, if you hav'nt already, don't buy this 
 game, and if you do, do not blame you'r DS, Ubisoft has terrible handheld games all around... Brb, 
 have to take a dookey, wheres chaper four of my Settlers Manual?? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Xantiriad
Rating: 2
Date: Sep 27, 2007 12:43 pm PT
Review:  Settlers (DS) is one of the worst games I have ever played. Or at least it would be if it was at 
 all playable: No manual to speak of; no tutorial; crazy controls with PC style windows complete 
 with Max and Minimize on the tiny DS screen; 1fps animation; Broken, Broken, Broken! Avoid at all 
 costs.
  
  Gameplay: 0 - I couldn't find any!
  Presentation: 2 - A joke,... really you can't see anything!
  Design: 1 - totally unplayable, unless 
 you where a tester and know how it works Huh?
  Story: 0 - non existent
  Overall: 1 - The worst purchase I have ever made
  
  For: Nothing
  Against: Everything. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: krypto74
Rating: 1
Date: Sep 3, 2007 3:58 am PT
Review:  How hard can it be to make a game that works on the one platform you are releasing it on. I expect 
 to see poor work in a PC game where patches can solve most problems and a piece of wasted wages 
 can turn into a fairly interesting game. The DS is not the PC however, and when Ubisoft (or whoever 
 they hired from the third world to port The Settlers 2 to the DS) decided to squeeze this thing 
 out from between their metaphorical butt cheeks it landed with a predictable wet splat on the floor 
 and ruined my day. First of all, the rule book (as mentioned by other reviewers) is useless. There 
 is no tech tree to help you out. The music and graphics are what one would expect from a PC in 
 the 80's. Oh, and if you save the game and then do anything else, it locks up the DS. Look, I switched 
 from Vista to a DS for the specific reason of not having to deal with PC lock ups, BSOD, anger, 
 frustration and hair pulling that is involved in making a simple game run. Bringing me this excrement 
 and making me excited about a classic game is exactly the kind of thing that will get you up against 
 the wall when the revolution comes. For the love of God, Allah, Vishnu, Genesh, and Tom Cruise... 
 DO NOT purchase this from Gamestop, and in fact complain to the manager that this game's eexclusivity 
 to their store makes the store look bad for stocking a 29.99 land mine like The Setlers. Off to 
 clean the toilet and try again... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: poohbear12
Rating: 6
Date: Sep 2, 2007 9:28 pm PT
Review:  The Good:
  The tried-and-true Settlers town management formula is in here in all its glory.
  
  The Bad:
 
  Very clunky controlling, slowwww play when the town gets big, and a few serious glitches nearly 
 ruin the experience (notice I said nearly ...)
  
  ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
  
  Boy, is this ever a tough one to review. You've seen high ratings, you've seen low ones, and everything 
 in between; heck, just look at the pie chart up above. About as many people thought the game was 
 superb, as those who thought it was awful. Why, you might ask?
  Well, the game itself is fun in terms of the idea being conveyed. Town building and developing 
 requires you figure out the chain of needs and then build the appropriate structures to get there. 
 For example: you want bread? Well, you need a woodcutter to chop wood for you to build structures, 
 a grain farm to grow the grain, a mill to turn it into flour, and a baker with access to a water 
 supply to finally bake it. This sort of management sim can be a great deal of fun, since you aren't 
 usually involved in any micromanagement of your little folks. You tell them what to build, they 
 build it then try to use it. Defending your settlement is as simple as building a few outposts, 
 and making sure the soldiers who start showing up are plied with beer from your brewer.
  
  If that sounded like a blast, exactly your cup of tea, then you might be able to squeeze some enjoyment 
 out of this game. The problem is, the developers worked very hard to make sure it plays as awkwardly 
 as possible, from misreading the touch screen, to ensuring you will freeze the game whenever you 
 save then zoom in or out (although with the sounds and music set to be turned off, this problem 
 disappears) . The slow gameplay gets painfully slow when your town gets larger, even when you use 
 the speed-up option. So, the game involves an awful lot of waiting around for stuff you have ordered 
 to be built getting built.
  
  The funny thing is, the game sort of keeps you coming back for more. I played for about an hour, 
 hated every minute of it, and put the game away in disgust. A day later, I was back at it again, 
 though.... and the day after that...
  The excellent premise of Settlers is very much alive in this game, and keeps drawing you back, 
 despite the horrid programming.
  
  So, if you have the patience of Solomon, and really love the Settlers formula for empire building, 
 this game has a lot to offer, with two large campaigns stuffed into the teeny weeny cartridge, 
 including the 'world domination' mode. If you can't overlook these issues, or don't enjoy slow, 
 deliberate gameplay, then you should probably save your cash (or maybe buy the PC version) . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Ready03
Rating: 9.1
Date: Aug 11, 2007 3:40 am PT
Review:  i have never played this type of game before, always been a console player, with this being my 
 1st experience of this type of game i must say i have never played my Ds for this long in one sitting... i 
 find it so addictive, the more i learn the better it gets.... i start out to play a new chapter 
 and get the basics set out and before i know it 2 hours have passed, i played it the other night 
 at work , nightshift, i went to save the game and realised i had played it for 4 and half hours!!!! 
 i have never played a game that time went by with-out noticing...... i am eager to learn from people 
 who have played this type of game what they think of this version, 
::::::

::::::
UserName: NormieJ
Rating: 2.8
Date: Aug 10, 2007 6:10 am PT
Review:  Being an old Settler addict, I was looking forward to this game for quite some time.
  
  Ubisoft sorely disappointed me when releasing Settlers V - Herritage of Kings. This game had nothing 
 to do with the original Settlers games released by BlueByte and I was almost insulted by Ubisoft 
 selling this game under the Settlers name.
  
  But I had hope that they had learned their lesson and picked up where BlueByte left off, and release 
 a 'proper' Settlers for the DS. How wrong was I!
  
  Not only are the graphics way below what you would expect but the game itself has many bugs which 
 really take the fun out of playing. Although I can live with the graphics, for nostalgic reasons, 
 they are much the same as Settlers 2. The touchscreen hardly ever reacts to your movements properly 
 and if you try to zoom out and back in after you have explored a large part of the map, the whole 
 DS just freezes up and you can start from the last save.
  
  I have not managed to get past chapter 6, at this point the DS constantly freezes. It appears that 
 it cannot keep up with the game and just crashes. If anybody out there has found a way to get past 
 chapter 6, please let me know.
  
  Overall, I am once again left very disappointed by Ubisoft. If you love the first 4 Settlers games 
 like I do, then please do yourself a favour and don't buy this game. It will not only make you 
 angry and disappointed, but it will also taint the fun you have been getting out of the Settlers 
 games so far and your memories will never be the same. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
