-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: The Simpsons Game
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/ds/action/thesimpsons/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 Hilariously lampoons the video game industry and its revered classics.
 Bart, Homer, Marge, and Lisa all have great superpowers.
 The levels emulate the sights and sounds of the cartoon beautifully.
 More than 20 minutes of great cutscenes and voice acting.
 Stuffing the Homer virtual pet full of pizza and then defibrillating his heart is fun.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 A little too much emphasis on pulling levers and jumping between platforms.
 Only takes about five hours to do everything the game offers.
 Off-color language may not be appropriate for the little ones.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Nov 15, 2007
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 7.5
Critic Score: 6.9, 18 Review (s)
User Score: 7.4, 376 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: EA Games
Developer: Electronic Arts
Genre: 3D Platformer
Date: Oct 30, 2007
ESRB: Teen

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Though brief, The Simpsons Game on the DS satisfies from start to finish. 

  As you play through The Simpsons Game on your Nintendo DS, you'll find yourself cracking one smile 
 after another in response to all of the irreverent references the game makes concerning the TV 
 show, pop culture in general, and the video game industry. The game itself is a varied 2D platformer 
 that shamelessly borrows concepts from dozens of popular video games, which are constantly lampooned 
 by the characters, both during the levels and in the lengthy animated scenes that play out after 
 each mission. It won't take you long to work through the game (five hours, at most) , but you'll 
 be satisfied from start to finish thanks to the inventive gameplay situations, the video-heavy 
 presentation, and the satirical sense of humor that pervades everything that's displayed onscreen 
 or piped through the speakers.  

  The plot of the game revolves around Bart's discovery of a magical instruction manual that gives 
 each member of the Simpsons family unique video game powers. At first, Bart, Homer, Marge, and 
 Lisa use their newfound abilities to defuse everyday situations. Bart and Homer stop a robbery 
 at the museum. Marge and Lisa lead a mob to get Grand Theft Scratchy banned. Soon, they come to 
 realize that the city of Springfield has been transformed into dozens of side-scrolling, isometric, 
 and minigame levels, and that its residents have been corrupted into the bad guys and bosses populating 
 those levels.  

           It all started one day when Bart came across a magical video game instruction booklet. 

  There's nothing especially noteworthy about how the levels are set up. For most of them, you alternate 
 control between two of the Simpsons characters and use their abilities in conjunction with the 
 usual sort of running, jumping, and lever pulling you'd normally find in any platform-style game. 
 You'll also find yourself frequently pressing the attack button to unload punches and kicks on 
 the ill-intentioned denizens of Springfield who liberally populate each level. What makes the levels 
 fun is, first, how bizarre they are. Beating up chocolate bunnies and riding marshmallows in rivers 
 of chocolate in Homer's dream world is ridiculous. So is shuffling blocks and ascending the clouds 
 on a giant stack of Tetris bricks in one of Lisa's levels.  

  Secondly, the characters' abilities are downright awesome. Homer can eat food and transform into 
 a giant ball-shaped "fatso" that can squish enemies and shatter walls. Bart has a slingshot that 
 comes in handy against distant enemies and switches, but his true usefulness stems from his ability 
 to transform into his alter ego, Bartman, who can float through the air and swing across hooks 
 using his utility rope. Throughout the game, Lisa gradually develops telekinetic abilities that 
 let you rearrange objects in the environment and electrocute enemies simply by dragging and tapping 
 things with the stylus. Marge, the mother of the clan, has only one real ability, but it's a doozy: 
 She can convince people to form a mob. Using the stylus, you can tap spots on the touch screen 
 to make the mob attack enemies or destroy obstacles that are in your way. The majority of levels 
 borrow a page from the Lost Vikings playbook and pair up two of the characters. For example, you'll 
 swing across hooks and pull a lever as Bart, which will cause a ramp to fall from the sky -- which 
 you'll then use to launch Homer's fatso form onto an upper floor.  

  Visual and spoken references to  The Simpsons  TV show, as well as to popular movies and fads, 
 are frequent. By and large, however, the whole game is a delicious send-up of the video game industry. 
 When you fall into a pit, bounce off a trampoline, or act out some other video game clich, Comic 
 Book Guy will appear on the upper screen and say a few words about it. One level is a sweatshop, 
 in which dwarves that look suspiciously similar to Mario, Luigi, and Sonic toil while you constantly 
 battle fireball-throwing people who are dressed up just like Ryu from Street Fighter 2. In another 
 level, you have to stop Will Wright, creator of The Sims, from destroying an 8-bit game cartridge. 
 As you jump across falling platforms and pull levers to break the factory, he'll fly around on 
 his Sim crystal chariot and utter comments like "It's OK, Will, just think about your money." Some 
 levels are specifically patterned after classic games. You'll hop across floating logs to reach 
 the other side of a pond, you'll climb a multilevel factory to reach an ape that's tossing barrels 
 at you, you'll traverse a top-view dungeon beating up enemies and the huts they spawn out of in 
 search of keys that'll unlock the exit, and so on. There's even a Homer virtual pet you can feed 
 and play with whenever you're not tackling a mission.  

  Within the missions, the hand-drawn backdrops and characters bear a striking resemblance to their 
 TV counterparts. The style is crude but detailed -- just like the  Simpsons  cartoon show. Loads 
 of familiar characters appear as enemies, bosses, or in whimsical cameos, and you'll be treated 
 to a good variety of vocal comments as you interact with those characters and the environment. 
 Before and after each mission, animated clips featuring the actual voice actors from the cartoon 
 play out to move the story along. These clips are lengthy, and the overall quality of the video 
 and audio is top-notch. More importantly, the quality of dialogue, the sense of humor in the delivery, 
 and the artistic quality of the animation are all just as good as what you see in the episodes 
 you watch on TV.  

           You'll journey through the land of Pie-rule and trade attacks with Turdle, an obvious 
 send-off of Pokmon's Squirtle.      

  One nugget of information that may or may not be important to you is the game's T rating, which 
 wasn't assigned just because every level involves beating the stuffing out of the transformed people 
 of Springfield. Some characters actually speak off-color dialogue. At one point, Will Wright ends 
 a sentence, no doubt inspired by  Chappelle's Show , with the word that means female dog or cranky 
 woman. In an animated scene, Bart and Homer stop to relieve themselves on someone's lawn. These 
 naughty words and happenings fit the context of the situations they're presented in, so they don't 
 seem out of place. However, this is definitely one of those instances where the rating is a strong 
 suggestion not to put the game into the hands of young children, unless you want to risk them learning 
 a few colorful words and perhaps doing something disgusting on your plants.  

  The most disappointing thing about the game is that it takes only about four hours to get through 
 all 20 or so missions. You can tack another hour onto that tally if you intend to go back and replay 
 missions to collect any bottle caps, Malibu Stacy tickets, or other collectible items you may have 
 missed. On the upside, the touch-sensitive map of Springfield makes it easy to replay individual 
 missions and minigames, and to rewatch animated clips. You can also kill time by taking advantage 
 of the multiplayer mode, which lets you compete in combat and keep-away games with as many as three 
 other people using multiple DS systems and a single game cartridge. Whether five-plus hours is 
 too short or just right is up to you. Either way, The Simpsons Game for the Nintendo DS is one 
 heck of a ride while it lasts.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (29 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: bladex8
Rating: 8
Date: Apr 18, 2009 12:30 pm PT
Review:  The answer is yes but....
  The simpsons game appeared now on xbox wii playstation 3 and the psp. Now you can play it on the 
 DS.
  
  The story : It all begins that the simspons discoverd that they have superpowers so they will use 
 it to cheat of course like in contests.
  Some platformer levels later they are attaked by aliens so the simpsons decides to use these powers 
 for justice (and still cheating but that's not the point) . Butt their powers are not strong enough 
 so they look for upgrades they go to professor frink. The only one who can help. It's a good game. 
 Catchy music. 
  
  A lot of cutscenes witch great jokes just as we know the simpsons. It is kinda annoying as they 
 repeat the same joke during a level 10 times. They have added some mini-games. But what I also 
 noticed is there are 2 levels more on any console expect the DS.... makes me sad.... But it is still 
 a good game but extremely short. You should rent it first. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GamerofMario1
Rating: 8
Date: Mar 24, 2009 6:33 am PT
Review:  The Simpsons Game is a game in which mostly Simpson fans will enjoy. The game has some major great 
 aspects to it, but also falls short.
  The game play is first. In the game, you can either control Bart, Homer, Lisa, or Marge (with Maggie) 
 to solve the episoide's puzzles. Bart becomes Bartman, Lisa uses her Budda powers to grab stuff 
 or electracute things, or to lift herself, Marge can control people, and Homer can become a giant 
 ball of blubber and an airless blubber-man who can float. All of that is good, it uses the double 
 screens nicely. I would've liked to control people with the stylus, but you use the stylus with 
 Marge and Lisas' powers. You can also collect special items unique to the player, like Duff Bottle 
 Caps and Malibu Stacy coupons. They make some nice replay value. 9.5/10
  The graphics were semi-good, which was, in my opinion, a flaw. They were mostly looking like pencil 
 drawings on a peice of paper. But, it is made up for the movie graphics. They look much sleezier 
 and nicer. They looked kinda like clay-mation. 7/10
  The levels are well thought out. One might put you in a food-eating contest, while another will 
 put you in a spin-off of Pokemon. But, it seems that you use mostly Bart or Homer, and you only 
 use Marge in three levels! Also, the levels are firstly easy, but the last two levels are much 
 harder and long. It seems that they expect you to make it, even though there are ton of obstacles, 
 like dogs that shoot out gold coins. 8/10
  The best part of the game is, like the show, its humor. Like, for instance, Will Wright makes an 
 special appearence in the game engine, when he went mad by his failure, SimSandwich. (You actually 
 see that game in God's library.) Also, Matt Groening makes an evil appearence. Humor is unexpected, 
 like these examples: "Of course I can. I'm Will Wright, [word bleeped out] ." "And only the smartest 
 person in Springfield can help us." [Same quote:] "I drink blue juice from under the sink." [Ralph 
 Wiggum.] And: "Homer, come here. I need you obesity." 9.5/10
  The Simpsons Game, like I said, is mostly a Simpsons fan's game, like me. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nonibugoni
Rating: 7.5
Date: Mar 12, 2009 12:30 am PT
Review:  First i am going to talk about the flaw's in the game
  
  1: should have bin longer
  
  2: should have had more combat moves
  
  3: whenever you fight a enemy in the game they manage 
 to always attack you so your not strong enough or there to strong
  
  4: Parent's if you are thinking of buying this game for your children don't is actually has sex 
 comment's and language like S. O. B and marge says some bad words but they are censored it but if 
 you have headphones on you can hear what she says but its just random gibberish.
  so the game is for like 11 or 12 and older you could let a 10 year old play but no children under 
 the age. 
  
  Graphics: 7/10 for the Ds the graphics are actually really good! but the cartoon cutscenes with 
 the simpson's look a bit weird. they look more like them on the Tv show in the ps2 etc... etc.. etc 
 version.
  
  gameplay: 6/10 you sadly can't go wherever you want but there is lots of fun mini games you can 
 play like a spoof kinda thing of frogger and old atari games.
  
  sound 7/10 good sound but the dialogue is just repetitive and gets super annoying after a while.
 
  
  lasting appeal 5/10 there is not that much left after you beat the game. but the game is fun.
 
  
  OVERALL 7.5 the game is really good but not so great!
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: cjdillow
Rating: 8
Date: Jan 27, 2009 5:00 pm PT
Review:  I gave this game an 8.0 because it is fun and definetely the best game I have played on my Nintendo 
 DS but there are areas in which the game can be dramatically improved. This game was relatively 
 short but it is extreme fun. It is very easily the best game I have ever played on DS. The storyline 
 is very interesting with different stages either involving saving springfield, the world or the 
 environment. Each player has a special ability which are extremely fun to use. There is Homer as 
 a fat helium ball, Bart as Bartman and Lisa gets to use the Hand of Buddha. The levels are fun 
 but can sometimes be challenging and difficult but it is a great game. The graphics are the best 
 I have seen on DS and the gameplay is also the best I have seen on DS. Definetely a great game 
 to start your DS collection with. The best game I have ever played on DS... by a longshot. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hi0
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jan 24, 2009 2:23 pm PT
Review:  This game is a really good game for people who like platformers and long time Simpsons fans. I 
 got it last summer for twenty dollars. Great deal! You go through a story with the Simpsons family: 
 Bart, Lisa, Marge and of course, Homer. You unlock well animated footage of a "hidden episode" 
 of the Simpsons. Once you finish the story mode, which probably takes about 5 total hours, you 
 have the option to play the levels over again.
  
  The game has a very weird (but funny) story line to it. It is a little shallow once you've finished 
 it. Unless you care a lot about getting all of the items in each of the levels, there is not much 
 to do once you beat the game. But it is really fun. I think it was a great deal for twenty bucks. 
 So try it out! It is a really funny, yet, weird game!!.... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Leeman911
Rating: 8
Date: Dec 13, 2008 7:05 am PT
Review:  The simpsons game ds is the only 2D version of the simpsons game and the movies or cut scenes are 
 amazing for Ds standareds. Like in the 360 version you collect collectables to get trophies and 
 there are the same clinch's Sadly its only 4 hours long and the 360 version is 8-9 hours long. Ibeat 
 it in one day last sunday but in this version theres pet homer which is not that fun sadely. But 
 for 20$ you get what you pay for. So you cant rome around town but you can pick your levels in town 
 with a overhead view. And you don't control maggie in the tunnels like the 360 version she does 
 it herself but at lest shes still in it so overall iny simpsons fan will injoy this 2d simpsons 
 game. 0 00 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 00 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 00 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 00 0 0 0 
 0 0 0 0 00 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 00 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 00 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 00 0 0 0 0 0 0 
 0 0 0 0 00 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 00 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 00 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 00 0 0 0 0 0 
 0 0 00 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MetalHead888
Rating: 8
Date: Oct 4, 2008 11:07 am PT
Review:  right from the start you notice a few things. one that your in for a few laughs, interesting movies, 
 and a game thats short lived. the game starts off playing homer and jumping on donuts and eating 
 chocolate bunnies. classic. after beating that first level and watching the movie, your about 15% 
 done with the game (about 5 hours... doh!) im gonna take a guess and say that they couldnt have 
 made the game much longer because of the movies, which are by far the best ive seen on the ds. 
 its like watching the simpsons on tv. the clips are funny and explain the story. gameplay is very 
 good as well. each character has a unique ability. it has almost that puzzle feel to it, knocking 
 out targets, pulling levers, pushing walls down, all that sorta stuff and fighting on. for the 
 most part the game is easy and theres no "game over" so dieing just brings you back to the last 
 checkpoint (which isnt far back at all. ever.) but there were some parts that werent so much challenging, 
 but more like a pain to figure out. in all, the game is very good, the movies are excellent, and 
 its hilarious. its short, and i wish there was much more to the game but still more then well worth 
 playing 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kevin091
Rating: 8
Date: Jul 5, 2008 4:22 am PT
Review:  (first written: 5/12/08. And I've got something to add: parts of the Creator level is the most 
 irritating in the game!)
  
  In a nutshell: The Simpsons Game offers a huge chunk of genuinely funny jokes which makes you overlook 
 the fact that it doesn't have the most amazing gameplay.
  
  Different Storylines
  Every family member has a different motive, but they get to achieve them when Bart reads a game 
 manual that falls from the sky. You get to control the whole Simpsons family sans Maggie and Abe 
 and do all sorts of things. From the absurdity of shooting targets to save Lenny to the reality 
 of Marge getting a violent carjacking game off Springfield, there's always something happening 
 in Springfield!
  
  Different Abilities
  The members of the family have various, cool abilities: Homer can bloat into a morbidly obese ball 
 of fat and dash into his enemies, Marge, well, she can form a riot and make other people do her 
 bidding and destroy stuff, Bart can become Bartman and use his cape to glide through far distances 
 and use his slingshot to shoot from a distance, and Lisa can use telekineses (and the power of 
 the Buddha) to move different stuff in different checkpoints.
  
  Gameplay
  The gameplay is very simple and borders on, or puts more emphasis on, jumping platforms and pushing 
 levers. Of course, there are a few of those enemies that you can beat up, but it's mainly composed 
 of aforementioned actions.
  
  Levels usually alternate between two family members, and one action can help the other. It's a 
 pretty good implementation of the concept personally, but not enough to be revolutionary (I mean, 
 come on, how many games have already done that before?!) .
  
  The lives system is... wait, it's non-existent! So basically, no game over screens, and you have 
 unlimited lives.
  
  Irony
  The irony around the very, very, very by-the-book platformer involves the Comic Book Guy's unlockable 
 Gaming Cliches which means that the game itself already knows that its gameplay is pretty much 
 one big cliche. Like when you fall from a chasm, he says, "Expect a lawsuit from Wile E. Coyote.". 
 Yes, all of them are very funny, but the bad thing about this is that it makes it seem that the 
 developers were focusing more on the humor than the gameplay- which is very, very important.
  
  Humor
  What would a Simpsons game be without the humor?
  
  What makes the game very lovable 
 is its humor.
  
  These spoofs are scattered all over the whole game. So you'll be able to see Will Wright with his 
 money and his army of Sims or some weird elves with a resemblance to Mario. It's all just a great 
 experience when you play just because of its first-class humor, and also because of this, you will 
 forget the shortcomings it regarding gameplay.
  
  It's so funny, you'll want more. Unfortunately, it's just...
  
  Short
  If you don't count 
 the collectible secret stuff, you can probably finish all 20 or so levels in a maximum of 4 hours. 
 And because it's very short, that feeling of satisfaction just doesn't get to you because you'll 
 want a lot more of the humor and you won't get enough of it. Basically, it's like LSD, but the 
 experience gets cut short by the reality of it finishing so quick.
  
  Graphical Presentation
  I love the whole feel of the game because it's very colorful.
  
  
 It replicates the feel of the series and during the lengthy full-motion videos that occur before 
 or after every level, the feel is still there, only better because they're so high-quality yet 
 many.
  
  Voice Actors
  The original voice actors give the game almost 100% of its comic flair because, obviously, they 
 provide voices for the game. You'll be surprised at how much excellent voice and sound effects 
 the game has, because the amount of vocal content surpasses even Nintendo games!
  
  My favorite part
  One of my favorite parts of the game is Pet Homer which is accessible in the 
 Simpsons House in the Springfield map. Actually, it's a bit of an indirect (?) spoof to Nintendogs. 
 You touch Homer's torso, he giggles and a plus sign appears overhead. You let him eat chocolate, 
 pizza, etc. etc. etc. and he could choke or have a heart attack. The heart attack is particularly 
 funny because you can use a defibrillator for that. You know what, it's boring in text, but very 
 fun in the game.
  
  A theory
  Maybe it's because of the wealth of content (videos, voice and sound FX) that deprived the developers 
 of making more game levels. The aforementioned content, however, is still very much appreciated, 
 and at least the levels themselves don't suffer in terms of quality, but still...
  
  Overall
  The Simpsons Game is very much playable, but not extraordinarily so, and the humor makes 
 up for the lackluster gameplay. If you are a Simpsons fan, then this game is perfect for you because 
 of its high quality video and audio content and Simpsons quality humor, which is obviously top-notch. 
 You'll be left wanting more, though.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: yoshi_08
Rating: 9
Date: Jul 4, 2008 3:58 am PT
Review:  The Simpsons Game starts with a strange beginning. It is simply Homer, sitting on his sofa, watching 
 the TV. Unfortunately for you, he is in his underwear. *Shudder*. The top screen instructs you 
 to feed him a bar of chocolate that is placed at the side of the screen, and if you do so, which 
 you should, he will fall asleep.
  You then find yourself in Homer's dreams: The Land Of Chocolate. You must walk, run, jump and eat 
 your way through this place until Homer wakes up. It seems like a rather pointless venture, but 
 nevertheless it is a good way to introduce you to the gameplay style, and give you a chance to 
 work the controls and everything.
  Soon Bart discovers the Simpsons Game Manual, where he discovers that he is living in a video game, 
 along with his family. He shows Homer, and they then try out their new-found powers in the History 
 Museum, to defeat the bullies: Jimbo Jones and his friends, who are being told to steal eye-candy 
 from the museum by Principal Skinner.
  Next, Bart shows Lisa, who wishes to use her new powers to stop loggers in Mr. Burns's logging 
 company, which, of course, she is strongly against. She discovers her "Hand of Buddha" Powers, 
 which make levels a lot easier, so it shouldn't be long before you're done that level.
  Now Lisa shows Marge the manual, because her mother is angry about the hit, violent videogame for 
 kids called "Grand Theft Scratchy". She uses the everyday neighbours and Lisa, and even Maggie, 
 to get Mayor Quimby to ban the videogame. It seems all good from there, with Bart and his Bartman 
 Powers, Homer and his Helium Ball Powers, Lisa and her Hand Of Buddha Powers, and Marge and her 
 Ordering-People-What-To-Do Powers.
  Things SHOULD run smoothly from then on, but they don't. Suddenly Springfield is attacked by the 
 aliens, Kudos and Kang and their friends, and the Simpsons Characters have to go through a few 
 strange events to prevent them from destroying the town. Though you should succeed in the three 
 tasks they have to accomplish, that still doesn't stop the aliens, and so, they take a break from 
 that for a moment.
  Now their mission is to defeat Matt Groening, who makes a surprise appearance in the game, plus 
 Will Wright (creator of the Sims) , and, if that wasn't enough, Bender and Dr. Zoidburg from Futurama, 
 too! Finally, the Simpsons try to go to the highest authority of all to stop the aliens, the only 
 person higher than Matt Groening (as Lisa puts it) , God.
  You should be finished the game after that.
  The gameplay is awesome. The characters are not 
 cheesy at all, and the plot is actually less stupid than you'd think. Alright, yeah, the story 
 mode is a little short, and it can be really quite hard sometimes, but I think it's a superb game 
 and you'll enjoy it, too. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: stjimmy222
Rating: 8
Date: Jun 30, 2008 5:10 am PT
Review:  I borrowed this game from my sister and although I completed it all in one afternoon, it was thoroughly 
 enjoyable. There is just something about playing as The Simpsons in any form of game that makes 
 it fun. The humour of the game although a bit unsuited for younger ages, is typical Simpson comedy, 
 creating satire and comments about themselves, popular culture and videogames in general, openly 
 parodying all the clichs within.
  
  The powers for each character compliment well with the controls of the DS and each level, although 
 they can be sometimes filled with repetitive tasks of platform jumping, do offer somewhat of a 
 range of different ways to obtain objectives and utilizie the powers of each character fully.
 
  
  Fun to play for an afternoon or two for a quick go on the handheld, and also a must have for DS 
 owners and Simpsons fans. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: princepersia0
Rating: 1
Date: Jun 16, 2008 3:10 am PT
Review:  This game is a very bad game on ds for several reasons, 1. it turns of automatically on my ds. 
 2. it has very crap graphics and you can only view it from a land scape view.
  
  I really like the Simpson's but i think this stupid game just spoiled it, so I'm going to family 
 guy or American dad. The only good thing about this game is that you can be the same Simpson characters 
 and it has there real voice witch is usual but i could't think of anything that was good about 
 this game so that proove's how bad this game is. So I'm glad i could help stop people from buying 
 crap games, and if this hasn't gotten into your head I've writien this review for nothing.
  
  Know I just need alot more characters to enter this review so if I say anything stupid you 
 will know why. My supporting GS members are 09brandon, crazy717 and max 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bluesteel13
Rating: 8
Date: Apr 14, 2008 8:32 am PT
Review:  So far every simpsons game i have played was on a console but for the first time i brought a simpson 
 game on a handheld (DS) AND IT IS RATHER GOOD. There is some places where it lacks but most of the 
 game it is good.
  
  Gameplay: The gameplay of this game is Sweet using 2 people in every level which is a really good 
 idea. The special powers for the characters work really well like the cape for bart and the buddha 
 hand for lisa. The varios fighting combos are alright but could of been better because every person 
 you have a fight with you wil always get hit once or more. The gameplay of this game has to be 9/10
 
  
  Characters: The Characters in this game are like every other simpson game you always play as Homer, Bart, Lisa 
 and Marge. They all have different powers and also have different abilities, Bart-has the cape to 
 glide and can use slingshots on enemys, Lisa-can use her buddha hand to move things like objects 
 and can levitate herself to a higher platform. Marge-Can use her loud voice thing to gather people 
 and do her work for her. Homer-can go to a helium bottle and can start floating for about 10 secs 
 and he can blow up and be a fat ball and roll everywhere he wants.9/10
  
  Graphics-The graphics for this game is really good for a a ds. They have put real good design in 
 this game and really have thought about it. Sometimes they can be not so good but that is like only 
 a few levels.9/10
  
  Sound-The sound in this game is really good but when the side clips come and you put the DS on 
 the loudest volume it can go you still have to put your ear against the ds
  
  overall-this game is really good and a must have if you like The simpsons
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: shadowcat2576
Rating: 7.5
Date: Apr 9, 2008 9:37 am PT
Review:  The DS version is not like it's big brothers on the consoles, nor is it ment to be. What it is 
 is a really entertaining game that manages to conbine lots of different gameplays styles into one 
 good (although admittedly short) game.
  
  The cutscreens between the levels are great, well-done and funny. The comments that characters 
 make are surprising and mostly enjoyable, although there were a few spots where I wished there 
 was a bit more varied "We must save the 8-bit Simpsons. They remind us of a simpilar time."
  
  The variety of abilities for the different family members was nice, and I enjoyed having to 
 switch between them rather than over-reliance on one or two. I also thought that some of the changes 
 in level designs were quite nice. The Frogger and Gauntlet parts were a special treat.
  
  Yes this game is short and pretty easy since there's an overabundance of checkpoints and unlimited 
 respawning. However, I enjoyed almost every minute of this game while I was playing. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: StealthyPepper
Rating: 7
Date: Feb 10, 2008 7:41 am PT
Review:  When I received "The Simpsons Game" for Christmas, I didn't expect much. Boy was I wrong. It turned 
 out to be one of the best games I have for Nintendo DS. 
  When you begin playing, you are taken into the world of "The Simpsons" .
  The level selection 
 screen is a virtual Springfield. You can go to different places for different levels, and extras. 
 For example, you could go to the Simpson's house to play a Nintendogs knockoff, or you can go to 
 the Aztec Theatre to watch over 20 minutes of Simpsons footage that you unlock as the game progresses. 
 The levels are broken down into episodes. Each episode takes the characters into a different place, 
 and each has a story. Some of my favorites included "Mythos of Marge" a Zelda parody, and "Big 
 Super Happy Fun Game" a fun Pokemon styled anime level, The levels are easily beaten, but they 
 require strategy. Since it is all side-scrolling, the game plays out like New Super Mario Bros, 
 but with more action. Along the way, each character has goodies to collect, and if all are collected 
 by the end of the level you get a prize. The prizes are worthless pictures of Malibu Stacys, hairproducts, 
 Duff beers, and Krusty the Klown stuff, but they are fun nonetheless.
  If there is one downside to the game, it is that it can easily be shot through in a few hours. 
 However, if you take your time, it is a worthy game of your collection. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Iain-Kinloch
Rating: 7.5
Date: Feb 2, 2008 6:16 am PT
Review:  The Simpsons Game on the DS is short, very short, but solid gameplay and lots of humour help make 
 it above average.
  
  For the most part, the Simpsons Game is a simple platformer which has nothing new to bring to the 
 genre, but it manages to be fun despite this. You play as Bart, Homer, Marge and Lisa and each 
 of them has their own special abilities. Homer can transform into a big ball and roll over enemies 
 for example. Bart is the only one who can use a ranged attack, Marge can form a gang of people 
 to go and destroy certain things and Lisa is the only one who can manipulate the levels themselves. 
 Each character has more than one ability (exept Marge, but who don't play as her much though) , 
 but you get the idea.
  
  Most of the time (except for Marge) you'll be running, jumping, using levers collecting things 
 and using basic attacks to kill enemies. As you can imagine, the bulk of the game is pretty standard 
 stuff, so how does the game keep thing entertaining. Well in some cases you get to play a minigame 
 that bltantly rips off and makes fun of other games (more on that later) , shootingat aliens Space 
 Invaders style, jumping on moving logs to cross rivers like in Frogger. These help shake things 
 up a bit but its the comedy of the game that really keeps you going. The many cutscenes in the 
 game are almost like watching parts of the cartoon (albeit a lot funnier than most recent episodes) 
 as they have had loads of voice work put into them. The voice work doesn't stop their though, throughout 
 the levels you will hear loads of one liners from the characters. They tend to repeat themselves 
 after a while but their funny and the shear amount of speech in the game will impress you anyway, 
 there really is loads of it.
  
  Also, like the bigger console versions of the game, the DS version has Video Game Cliches in it 
 aswell. Remember the bit about Space Invaders and Frogger, play through one of them succesfully 
 to unlock a cliche about them. Find enemies that keep appearing out of the same place, that's a 
 cllche for you to find. Everything from double jumping to breakable crates to triple combo punches 
 can be found here, and a quick look in the Anderoids Dungeon (which is one of the many places to 
 select form the easy to use touch screen map) will reveal all the characters unlocked tokens, how 
 many collectibles needed on a given level to unlock a token and what Video Game cliches you've 
 unlocked along with some pretty funny coments from Comic Book Guy.
  
  Even though all those parts of the game are good there are still a few problems. The 2D view of 
 this version of the game does mean there are less problems with the camera found in the bigger 
 console versions of the game, but there are still some times when you have to make a leap of faith 
 and hope that there is a platform just off the screen. It can be really annoying to work your way 
 up a tall level only to miss a platform and fall a long way down. The ability to scroll the screen 
 to the left or right would have fixed this but no such feature is there. Also, the game is very 
 short. You could probably beat all the levels in about four hours. Fortunately, there are some 
 reasons to repley the levels. You can collect all of the collctibles in each level for each character, 
 you can collect all of the Vidoe Game cliches and there are sure to be one or two levels that you'll 
 want to play again just because they're so good. 
  
  There is even a multiplayer mode in this as well. Its a little basic but it still provides a decent 
 source of fun. You can play with two to four players, the modes include Bart Match which is basically 
 a 2D deathmatch, Kapture the Koveted Krusty which is a bit like capture the flag, Hungry Homer 
 where you try to eat as much food as possible to earn calories. You can also attack each other 
 to knock the caloiries offf their score. Finally there is Golden Donut which is very similar to 
 Kapture the Koveted Krusty but plays out a little differently. There a few power ups that make 
 the multiplayer modes a little bit more interesting but they're nothing special. Oh, and you can 
 play using single card play which is a bonus.
  
  The Simpsons Game for the DS is not the best game of its type for the console, but if you like 
 the Simpsons, can make use of its multiplayer or like a game that has a lot of laughs, then its 
 probably worth your time and money to pick it up. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DidiCardoso
Rating: 8
Date: Jan 19, 2008 10:46 am PT
Review:  I've been watching the Simpsons for years, and although I don't consider myself a huge fan, I know 
 my fair share of trivia and my husband and I tend to say random quotes to each other on weird occasions.
 
  
  The game follows a silly plot: Bart finds the manual for The Simpsons Game, and the whole family 
 finds out that each has a superpower. It doesn't follow the formula of actual episode of the show, 
 but it sure has all the humor and the characters act in the exact same way as fans have grown accustomed 
 to. Comic Book Guy, Duff Man, Ralph, Otto and many more Springfield inhabitants make their appearance, 
 and all have speech lines that will make you grin.
  
  The adventures take place all over town, where you can find familiar landmarks such as the Duff 
 Brewery, Moe's Tavern, the statue of Jebediah Springfield, the Kwik-e-Mart, the Museum, and obviously 
 742 Evergreen Terrace, which is where you get a mini-game with Homer.
  
  Pet Homer is basically Tamagotchi, nothing fancy, just a bit of fun. Playing through the levels 
 will unlock more items to use on Homer, such as donuts, pizza, hot dogs, veggies, a razor and shaving 
 cream or a defibrillator. Yes, because after eating so many fatty foods, Homer has heart attacks 
 and you have to revive him. You can also tickle him in different parts of the body (the feet seem 
 to be his favorite) and hear him giggle like a schoolgirl as his mood improves.
  
  In traditional side-scrolling fashion, The Simpsons Game makes good use of the dual screens, expanding 
 the levels vertically. The level design is pretty straightforward, and any puzzles you must solve 
 usually involve the use of two characters alternatively, since every member of the family has a 
 particular ability.
  
  Homer can eat to the point of being able to transform into a huge ball of fat to roll and charge 
 at things, but he can also turn into a human balloon and float. Bart turns into Bartman, armed 
 with a slingshot and able to float larger distances by using his cape. Lisa has a special ability 
 called Hand of Buddah that allows her to move objects with the power of her mind, but can also 
 use music to her advantage. Marge is probably the most curious. She uses persuasion to get other 
 Springfield residents to obey her, so she basically recruits an army of people to follow, like 
 in an RTS.
  
  There are a few enemies in the stages as well, so you have to fight your way through with simple 
 button-mashing (every character has a few kicks and punches they can use) . Don't be surprised if 
 you have to kick Chief Wiggum, hit that German exchange student with a boomerang or knock down 
 Barney Gumble with a few punches. They respawn constantly though, so sometimes when you fall off 
 from a high platform, it gets frustrating having to fight them all again. At least you have infinite 
 continues.
  
  Basically, the game is used to make fun of videogames, and every time you find a particular video 
 game clich, Comic Book Guy is sure to remind you with his remarks, be it a spike trap, falling 
 off a precipice, double jumping or using a jump pad. Other games are also made fun of, for example 
 space Invaders, Frogger and Gauntlet (Homer needs food badly!) . 
  
  Timeless moments from the show are revived, such as Homer's chocolate world dream, a trip to Duff 
 Gardens and Lisa trying to save a forest.
  
  As simple, entertaining and funny as the game is, I found that level progression sometimes could 
 have used a hint or two, since at times I found myself not knowing exactly what to do with which 
 character I'm ashamed to say how long it took for me to get out of the USA stage in the Duff Brewery, 
 just because I didn't understand what to do with Homer. 
  
  But you really have to give credit to the artists, the actors and the writers. The places, characters 
 and situations fit into the game like a glove. The cel-shaded drawings look just like the art of 
 any episode. Every line of voice acting is done by the actual performers from the show, and the 
 humor is the exact same, with part of it being specifically directed at gamers. The soundtrack 
 is not as memorable, but it sounds as if it were pulled from any episode.
  
  "Worst game ever"? Not a chance, Comic Book Guy! Although short, The Simpsons Game turns out 
 to be a surprisingly good game for the DS, and offers plenty of platforming fun for everyone, plus 
 a bunch of good laughs along the way. 
  
  
  Review text part of Grrlgamer. com. Full text and screenshots at http://www. grrlgamer. com/review. php? g=simpsonsgameds 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sillygostly
Rating: 7
Date: Jan 15, 2008 4:49 am PT
Review:  The Good : Colourful, vibrant graphics and environments. Over 20 minutes of fully animated cutscenes. 
 Fantastic (albeit repetitive) soundbites from the cast.
  
  The Bad : VERY short. Extremely linear level design. Unlimited lives makes the game feel ultimately 
 unchallenging. The novelty of Pet Homer wears out after about a minute (why couldn't the developers 
 invest their time on another level/world instead?) . While occassionally funny, the humour is unfortunately 
 dumbed down along the lines of the awful 14th-16th seasons of the show.
  
  Graphics - The environments are vibrant and colourful, although the sprites could have used a little 
 more tweaking considering the limited resolution of the DS hardware. The 3D cutscenes are nicely 
 animated although traditional hand-drawn animation would have been preferable.
  
  Sounds - Great, albeit repetitive soundbites and one-liners can be heard throughout the game although 
 they become repetitive after a while. The music throughout the game suits the atmosphere of the 
 levels and sounds great.
  
  Gameplay - Standard platformer fare without offering anything particularly new (nor memorable) 
 to the play. Some levels are reminiscent of classic adventure games such as Gauntlet or Alex Kidd, 
 and one level includes an amusingly cheesy parody of the turn-based Pokemon RPGs. This is certainly 
 no Commander Keen or Super Mario, but it's a decent platformer which should appease fans of The 
 Simpsons.
  
  Value - Clocking in at a mere 5 hours (plus another few hours if you wish to collect all the pick-ups) , 
 the game feels a bit pricey, especially considering that the game lacks replayability due to the 
 tedious linearity of the level design.
  
  Tilt - An interesting parody of the gaming industry (as well as poking fun at itself) , The Simpsons 
 Game is an all-round fun platform which doesn't take itself too seriously. Unfortunately the experience 
 brings nothing that you haven't already seen before and the game is likely to collect dust long 
 after you're through with it.
  
  Overall, The Simpsons Game would be best enjoyed by die-hard fans of the series. Casual fans or 
 gamers in pursuit of a worthy side-scroller are advised to look elsewhere as the game, ironically 
 enough, is composed entirely of the cliches that it intended on mocking.
  
  Graphics - 8
  Sound - 8
  Gameplay - 6
  Value - 6
  Tilt - 7
  Overall Rating : 7.0 
::::::

::::::
UserName: i_am_game99
Rating: 6
Date: Jan 14, 2008 11:16 pm PT
Review:  This game is a let down- a very big one to. It totally fails to use any 3-D images making the game 
 boring. If we wanted 2-D stuff, we would get a GBA. Totally fails to stand up to the DS capablities. 
 You hardly use the touch screen and when you do it is boring andworthless.
  
  This game does have good sound though, which is one of the few good thing about it. The ability 
 to use 2 characters is good but annoying at times. I still wonder how long it will take for game 
 creators to realise that the DS means 3-D. 
  
  The storyline is ok, as of course it manages to follow the movie in some ways. There is not much 
 to say about this game really, if you like old school 2-D grahpics and you are a basic gamer who 
 likes to use the same combinations and buttons, then buy this game. But since that game is still 
 full price no matter were you go, your better of buying it for another console. 
  
  But still, it is the simpsons! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: leilamayhem
Rating: 7
Date: Jan 9, 2008 12:32 pm PT
Review:  You really have to be a fan of The Simpsons to enjoy this game, as the gameplay itself is nothing 
 to write home about - pretty standard jumping and knocking out enemies. The writing is where it 
 shines, as it is really fun to watch the little hilarious cut scenes and hear the dialogue - and 
 I'm the kind of person that usually is NOT a fan of cut scenes. 
  
  There are parts where the repetitive sayings of the characters got annoying and I had to turn down 
 the volume. 
  
  There is a lot of checkpoints and this game was fun to play in short spurts without worrying about 
 having to do whole levels over again.
  
  Homer was my favourite character to control, and Lisa was my least favourite (too bad since she's 
 my fave character on the show!) . There's probably a character to like for everyone as they all 
 have different abilities and such. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: leonchamp
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jan 3, 2008 12:52 pm PT
Review:  Wasn't really looking forward to this , but seen some clips and i liked the way they got so many 
 of the cast to do dialogue for the game, and as a big fan (especially when i was younger) I gave 
 it a go. Well it is hilarious, and the amount of video clips between levels and the amount of funny 
 comments during the game makes this worth getting, even though it really is just a average platform 
 game. So if your not a fan don't bother, if you are buy this, don't expect New super Mario bros, 
 and you will be laughing all the way through. The game also uses the DS stylus to interact with 
 homer, who is asleep on the couch and you have to give him stuff to eat, give him too much junk 
 and he has a heart attack, you then have to use the electric pads to shock his heart to revive 
 him. Genius. If the game played as good as the humour then this would of been a total winner. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kcweezkid
Rating: 8
Date: Dec 13, 2007 2:43 pm PT
Review:  As a longtime Simpsons fan I will be the first to tell you that there were more than a few titles 
 in the simpsons long line of titles that failed miserably  in fact I am not sure that there ever 
 really was much of a winner until this game hit stores.
  
  The game play allows you to advance through levels using two characters from the Simpsons family. 
 You do not get to choose the characters, but you are given select characters who must use their 
 special powers in order to complete stages. The game play is solid and the story is fairly well 
 developed. At the end of each level you get a mini episode and at the completion of the game you 
 have what would be the equivalent to maybe 15 minutes worth of a Simpsons episode. Being rewarded 
 with these clips should keep any Simpsons fan motivated to continue through the game. 
  
  The good, The Bad, The Interesting 
  
  The Good  This game looks great on the system. It 
 is bright and really uses the two screens well. The levels are as entertaining as they are interesting. 
 The game incorporates many of the characters that we have come to love over the years. You don't 
 have a set number of lives, you just play the levels until you beat them restarting at check points. 
 This seems a little childish, but fits the theme of the game well. The game is openly filled with 
 video game clichs  this is one of the many that should get a smile out of gaming and Simpsons 
 fans alike 
  
  The Bad  The stylus is used in this game and seems to be a concept that is simply used because 
 the DS has that technology. It adds little to the game and at times can make things awkward. The 
 majority of the time I would have trouble on a level it would not be due to a difficult part, but 
 instead a struggling to make the stylus work how I wanted it to. This game would be better if they 
 didn't use the touchscreen at all. The game is pretty short and lacks the difficulty that some 
 people crave in the gaming world. The entire game can probably be beat in 15 hours. 
  
  The Interesting  When I first got my DS I bought the New Super Mario Bros, Brain Age, The Simpsons 
 Game, and Lost in Blue. Of all those titles it was the Simpsons game that was most often played. 
 I did research and found that all of the other games had pretty good reviews. The Simpsons game 
 I pretty much bought on the spot with low expectations. I was pleasantly surprised, although it 
 has not been back in the system sense I beat the game. Of all games that are based off of TV shows 
 / Cartoons this very well could be the best one I have played.
  
  Overall this game is a winner. It will be a hit with Simpsons fans, but even non Simpsons fans 
 will find it entertaining. I gave it a 9 originally then backed off that statement a little bit. 
 As an avid Simpsons fan, I have come to my sense a little bit and knocked it down to an 8, but 
 I believe everyone who plays it will be entertained to at least a level of 6.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: lilknight913
Rating: 7
Date: Dec 7, 2007 6:16 pm PT
Review:  Very interesting game, since it is the first simpson game i played. Some of the little movies were 
 funny though. The game did not take that long to figure out how to play. There is like infinite 
 life, which makes the game not challenging at all. It is not really that fun, but i guess its an 
 okay game to kill time with. The multiplayer is also interesting but not all that fun. The reason 
 is because if its only 2 player playing, the challenge won't be good, so therefore it requires 
 about 4 people to make it worth playing. Overall it's an okay game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lisalover1
Rating: 7.5
Date: Dec 7, 2007 6:25 am PT
Review:  Allow me to explain. I am a very big fan of the Simpsons. I write and draw fan art and fan fiction 
 of the the show, and have seen every single episode. So, naturally, I was excited to play the newest 
 game. After a few minutes playing it, I thought to myself, "This is pretty good, but it's almost 
 like there's something missing." The game was the best it could probably be on the DS; a 2-D platformer. 
 But, when I played th game for the PS2, I was just shocked by how much better the console version 
 was! The DS version is definitely the weakest of all the systems the game was released on. It's 
 still a fun game, but I expected something much better after a great game like "Simpson's Hit & 
 Run". Pick this game up if you're a Simpsons fan, but please, play it on a home console. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Jabbawocky04
Rating: 7
Date: Nov 14, 2007 4:08 am PT
Review:  Lets face it, The Simpsons doesn''t have a fantastic track record in video games out of twenty 
 one previous games only the arcade game can be called good, Hit and Run can be considered reasonable. 
 However the licence now belongs to EA and although they have a reputation themselves to churn out 
 games that do not fulfill their potential the trailers for this game made it seem as if we were 
 getting the Simpsons game we had been waiting for all these years. However the game did not live 
 up to the hype but is still a worth while experience.
  This game takes it story from when Bart discovers a gaming manual that falls from the heavens and 
 that it allows each of the Simpson family to have super-powers. After establishing who has what 
 powers and alien invasion hits Springfield leading to the family finding out that they are just 
 video game characters being sold in yet another rubbish game of repeating tasks and forever dieing 
 and therefore set out to settle their problems with the creator.
  As mentioned before each family member has their own set of unique powers they vary a bit for the 
 console version due to the restriction of being in 2D. Bart has the ability to become Bartman in 
 which he can float, shoot projectiles from his catapult and can slide down zip-lines. Homer has 
 the ability to turn himself into a giant ball which he can crush his enemies and certain scenery, 
 plus use the dash ability to launch himself off ramps. Homer can also fill himself with helium 
 which allows him to reach high areas and he is the only Simpson able to use pressure buttons. Lisa 
 has the Fist of Buddha ability which allows you to with the stylus move objects, enemies and even 
 yourself around the screen which adds to the puzzle solving element of the game. Marge is probably 
 the most unique of the characters as her levels are the most unique as there is no platforming. 
 Marge has the ability to control mobs of people with the use of her megaphone, which plays identically 
 to Pikmin (Mr Miyamoto make Pikmin for DS) and she also has the ability to send Maggie into small 
 areas to pull levers.
  This game play may vary it a bit around levels but ultimately it is the same style of jumping around 
 a section of a level repeating tasks such as button pressing and button bashing. The enemies don't 
 have any challenge to them at all not even what is considered to be boss battles. Only a few sections 
 in the game could really require brain power. Another negative is the ability to only play as two 
 characters which means you are prepared for what challenges you have to take on, plus since you 
 cannot choose which character you play as it damages the puzzle element of the game since you know 
 what you can do. Even though Marge's part of the game shakes things up a bit they are just way 
 too easy, the mob you send out to do your bidding cannot die therefore you can avoid taking damage 
 easily.
  The graphics of this game are in 2D and really capture the look of the Simpsons. Clear and crisp 
 the character models are very well designed. They have even tried to throw in the animated sections 
 of the console version which are funny but some of the funnier moments are missing plus at time 
 parts that move too much get a bit distorted.
  All the cast from the television series are in the game including cameos from Will Wright, Matt 
 Groening, and the cast of Futurama. The music is also suitable for the game unlike Simpsons games 
 of past. A negative would be that there is that you could hear the same line several time in a 
 row which can get annoying. Other than that though the voice acting is perfect.
  The amount of time this game takes to complete (I did it in less than five hours) might make this 
 game more from renting rather than buying. After the very easy game has been played through then 
 there is only any hidden items and cliches left over from the first play through to collect which 
 is one of the oldest ways to extend a games shelf life (it doesn't even have the time trial mode 
 of the console versions) .
  Overall the Simpsons game is like playing an extended episode of the television series and although 
 fun when playing through is just too much for actually buying it. Rent it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Simpsonsfan2
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 11, 2007 3:14 pm PT
Review:  Good:
  Great graphics
  A lot of extras
  
  Bad:
  Too Short
  
  The Simpsons Game is the first Simpsons game since 2003, 4 years ago. And, I think, (I have only 
 played the DS version as of the time I reviewed The Simpsons Game) that this is the 2nd best Simpsons 
 game, next to Hit & Run.
  
  The graphics look great. They are very colorful, and most of the time, the characters look like 
 they should, except for a few cutscenes, where their mouth can look a little odd.
  
  The gameplay is great, The game plays like a 2-D Mario game, there's just more puzzles, and you 
 sometimes really need to think hard about how to get across a fence, when you can't knock it down, 
 or something similar to that.
  
  The Simpsons Game sounds great, the music (from the show) sounds just like it should, except for 
 a few times, (where it can happen anywhere, at anytime) it sounds weird, or the music just stops, 
 or comes out of one speaker, for a second or two.
  
  The Simpsons Game has good controls, but after playing for a while, your hand may start to hurt.
 
  
  The Simpsons Game, is too easy though. There are some spots where you might get stuck, and think 
 there's no way to get out, but you'll eventually find it. To get through the game (for the first 
 time) , it took me, close to 4 hours. But, if you want to complete the game 100%, (by collecting 
 all of Homer's beer caps, Bart's "Krusty Koupons" etc....) , it will take a little longer to do 
 that.
  
  In conclusion, The Simpsons Game is a great 2-D platformer that Simpsons fans will enjoy, But if 
 you're looking for a challenging game, this probably isn't it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: d_generation69
Rating: 7
Date: Nov 5, 2007 1:21 pm PT
Review:  I hadn't a great hope for The Simpsons Game, especially on the DS. I had watched the movie, and 
 it was great, but a movie game always is generally between the limit of terrible to barely decent, 
 at most. However, Simpsons surprises on the positive side, being a good platformer.
  
  Graphics: EA seems to love these 2D arcade platformers, and generally applied it here. It isn't 
 bad, because it looks more than half decent! The cut scenes are cel-shaded, which is kind of the 
 movie quality the DS offers - nice there. Colorful, though some lack of 3D - something the DS CAN 
 render, so it would have been great if EA had included some of it. Nevertheless, a somewhat deserved 
 7/10.
  
  Sound: Well, the soundtrack is nothing to write home about, because the menu music and following 
 are just ripped from the series and/or movie. However, a positive aspect does feature here. Voices. 
 Yes, many DS games don't have these, let alone movie ones, but each character will periodically 
 say one of their common puns. It's a nice, albeit a generally unnecessary feature, although it 
 adds more realism to the game, which consequently makes it more fun to play. 7/10 here.
  
  Gameplay: What can I say? It's a nice platformer, in which you play the Simpsons characters and 
 the objective is to complete the level (duh!) while collecting optional cards and beer caps to 
 boost your score. Nothing too exciting, apart from each character having their own special power 
 and ability. 7/10 here.
  
  Replay Value: It has local multiplayer, and download play - alas, the essential for a decent game. 
 No WFC, but that was expected anyway. It's basic. 6/10 here.
  
  All in all, The Simpsons Game is good platformer, with nice and colorful graphics, and some great 
 voices, but most musics are ripped from other sources and there wasn't a lot of originality thrown 
 into the game. EA did manage to create a fun to play game for any Simpsons fan, but we need more 
 games that take more advantage of the great DS hardware - something that few have been able to 
 accomplish so far. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: wiggy-fuzz
Rating: 2.5
Date: Nov 5, 2007 9:09 am PT
Review:  the simpsons game (for the ds) has nothing on its console counterparts, resorting to having to 
 be a 2d platformer. the game manages to fail at being that with horribly slow gameplay and absolutley 
 needless voiceovers. at times the game turns into a terrible beat 'em up but this doesn't even 
 try to be impressive with dim-witted enemy AI (a lot of the time you just had to wait for the enemy 
 to walk off into pools of chocolate or onto unsurvivable drops) . the game only gets its score of 
 2.5 thanks to it's addmitedly nicely cell shaded cut scene videos, i can only wonder why the rest 
 of the game had to be a simple platformer, transformers the game proved that large free-roaming 
 environments would work on the ds and the phantom hourglass proved cell shaded graphics work very 
 well - why couldn't this game be like those?
  
  just another addition to the annoying glut of terrible games for the nintendo ds
  
  the good: 
 it's the simpsons. the game cover looks nice
  
  the bad: slow gameplay. it manages to make the controls look bad. it's as boring as hell. doesn't 
 even try to be unique or different. the little respect i've had for EA has now completley gone. 
 a waste of money 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gary_safc
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 4, 2007 5:39 am PT
Review:  the simpsons game for nintendo ds is brillant the game plays in 2d soft of like a mario game in 
 a way graphics are very good , plays well it has very good voice acting in this during gameplay 
 and cut scenes love the voice acting and has a lot of it too the story line is all the simpsons 
 have to save the world and each one gets his/her own super powers which is cool and in some levels 
 you have to switch from 1 simpson to the other so you can get past 1 bit of the level for example 
 [ bart and homer... homer is to fat and can not jump high so you control bart to jump up and open 
 the door so homer can get throgh if you get what i mean there a lot of teamwork] also theres a 
 mini game called pet homer . you just play around with him feed him piss him off if u wish ect... 
 lol before each level you will see a clip from the simpsons all based in a video game and they 
 wil be between 1-2 mins long a time so thats not bad. there is multicart play and single cart play 
 so yu can play up t 4 basic mini games with your friends if they have the game or not so every 
 one can enjoy a bit of the simpsons on the nintendo ds hope this helps all of u good people out 
 there
  
  graphics.. 9/10
  gameplay.. 7/10
  sound 9/10
  value 9\10
  
  overall this game gets a 9/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Akira345
Rating: 4
Date: Nov 3, 2007 7:51 am PT
Review:  Guys do yourselves a favour and stay away from this version of the game! I am not a professional 
 gamer and beat the game in 4 hours! All I got was frustration! This game was no fun for me at all! 
 it's extremely repetitive 2d jump 'n' run (and sometimes hit the same guys over and over again) 
 with no replay value! Even PET HOMER gets boring soon! I did not see a Medal of Homer level (or episode 
 if you prefer) as well as green slimy Homer! A lot of thing are missing from the ds version of the 
 game! Plus you can't destroy nothing from the surrounding environment (thing like cars, garbage cans, etc.) . 
 The sound is nothing impressive, it is not bad but... And in my opinion the replicas are repetitive 
 too!
  
  I am The Simpsons series fan and i had big expectations about this game, but my first impression 
 was bad! I hope (and i am sure) that the 3d versions of the game will be more fun to play, i will 
 get the psp version for sure when it is out! 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
