-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: The Urbz: Sims in the City
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/ds/strategy/theurbz/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 Long, open-ended storyline.
 Lots of variety in the minigames.
 Some snappy dialogue.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 Repetitive, sometimes cumbersome gameplay.
 Shallow character interaction.
 Muddled visuals.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Nov 23, 2004
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 7.3
Critic Score: 6.8, 34 Review (s)
User Score: 8.1, 1,294 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: EA Games
Developer: Griptonite Games
Genre: Virtual Life
Date: Nov 17, 2004
ESRB: Everyone

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
The Urbz's mundane subject matter sometimes overwhelms the experience, but this adventure role-playing 
 game nevertheless provides some surprising depth and lasting value. 

  Given the unprecedented success of The Sims, the EA and Maxis franchise that's all about controlling 
 every aspect of the lives of little virtual suburbanites, it's not much of a shock that the series 
 eventually took it to the streets. Enter The Urbz: Sims in the City, which is a hybrid of The Sims' 
 easy-to-grasp, addictive gameplay and kid-friendly urban-hipster sensibility. The Game Boy Advance 
 and Nintendo DS versions of the game, which are mostly identical, are actually full-on adventure 
 role-playing games, featuring a lengthy quest, lots of characters to meet and interact with, and 
 a number of fairly entertaining minigames. The game's mundane subject matter sometimes overwhelms 
 the experience, since having to frequently rest, shower, and relieve yourself in the game is about 
 as much fun as it sounds. But The Urbz nevertheless provides some surprising depth and lasting 
 value.  

          The Urbz is a surprisingly lengthy and involved adventure role-playing experience.     
 

  You begin your urban adventure by creating your alter ego. You can choose to play as either a boy 
 or a girl, whom you can name and customize with different-colored clothing. This modern rags-to-riches 
 tale begins appropriately enough: You get fired from your menial job, and in your efforts to earn 
 it back, you end up in even bigger trouble. You end up in the slammer, to be precise. Fortunately, 
 you can convince the affable detective who puts you away to, in turn, put you on probation. You'll 
 then earn some money from shooting hoops at a basketball court, and then use these funds to put 
 a down payment on a new apartment. Now it's time to rise through the city's social hierarchy, by 
 befriending everyone you meet, bettering yourself as a person, making lots of dough, and buying 
 better stuff. The Urbz isn't a strictly linear adventure, but you'll still go through its main 
 series of story-driven tasks sequentially, while exploring the New Orleans-inspired city of Miniopolis 
 and interacting with all its denizens.  

  The Urbz turns out to be quite a long game, and will probably take you at least 20 or 25 hours 
 to get through. On the DS, it can take even longer, since this version features additional content 
 not found on the GBA -- most notably, a unique series of missions involving an ambitious sushi chef, 
 trained monkeys, and a pet show. You'll find that the city feels pretty big from the get-go, even 
 though it's really only a couple of blocks in size. However, this is just the tip of the iceberg, 
 as you'll unlock many more areas to explore as you progress through the story. Yet the real reason 
 The Urbz provides such a long-lasting play experience is that the gameplay, partly for the better 
 and partly for the worse, is noticeably padded out.  

  As in The Sims, your character here has a number of "motives" that you need to keep satisfied as 
 you go about your other tasks. You'll be able to clearly monitor these via a series of colored 
 bars onscreen, and filling them back up to optimal levels is a simple matter of using an appropriate 
 object. For example, if your hygiene motive is running low, it's time for a shower, or if your 
 bladder motive is running low, it's off to the toilet. Your apartment will be furnished with some 
 of the basic amenities to help you stay on top of these important matters, but other places in 
 the city will let you accomplish the same goals. In practice, you'll probably find that attending 
 to all your motives is overly time-consuming. If one of your motives falls to less than 20 percent 
 of its maximum, your character will fidget for several moments, and then become unresponsive to 
 dialogue with other characters until you get that motive fixed. Plus, certain key appliances may 
 eventually break, requiring you to take the extra time to get them repaired. There's plenty of 
 additional gameplay in The Urbz, so doing all that while also maintaining your motives can feel 
 like quite a handful. Still, you can't fault the game for giving you plenty to consider at any 
 given moment.  

          The DS and GBA versions are mostly identical, though the GBA supports multiplayer, while 
 the DS has a good amount of bonus content.     

  The storyline focuses on your mostly selfish efforts to help the community ward off a money-grubbing 
 land developer bent on turning Miniopolis into a soulless tourist attraction, but it takes a lot 
 of amusing little detours along the way. For example, you'll unlock a broad assortment of minigames 
 as you progress, and these are key because they're your best means of earning money in the game. 
 Minigames include the previously mentioned basketball contest, a matching puzzle, window washing, 
 stand-up comedy, motocross racing, and more. All these are simple, but some are quite challenging, 
 such as the matching game and the motocross racing, the latter of which is a copy of the Nintendo 
 Entertainment System classic Excitebike. You can level up in each of the minigames, which makes 
 your success in them much more lucrative, but also quickens the pacing and makes the games themselves 
 more challenging in other ways. At any rate, the variety of gameplay that these provide is refreshing, 
 and they're nicely animated and fun to watch, at least for a while.  

  You level up in The Urbz much like you would in any other standard role-playing game. You have 
 a number of statistics -- such as body, creativity, and logic -- that you can augment by repeatedly 
 using certain objects. This is a bland process, requiring that you simply wait while your character 
 conducts research on a computer, performs a soliloquy in the mirror, and so forth. But in exchange 
 for your patience, you'll gain the skill necessary to level up in your favorite minigames, and 
 therefore earn a lot more cash. It's possible to upgrade your character in other ways, too. There 
 are a few different vehicles that you'll acquire during the course of the game, and you'll also 
 find or be given special beads that can be exchanged for certain permanent bonuses called "xizzles." 
 Probably the most useful of these bonuses make you more resistant to your motives, but even then, 
 you'll still be spending lots of time sleeping, eating, and so forth. Even so, it's good that The 
 Urbz has a fully realized character-building system.     

  Interacting with other characters is another major gameplay element in The Urbz, but it's pretty 
 shallow. Some of the dialogue is snappy, but the interactions themselves are as simplistic as can 
 be. Basically, when talking to another character, you'll be given three broad dialogue options 
 at a time -- for instance, ninjas, politics, and the river -- and, depending on your choice, the character 
 will respond positively or negatively. It's often easy to predict the outcome of a given dialogue 
 option, too: Most characters in The Urbz are indeed as superficial as they look, so you'll have 
 success talking to hipster chicks about money and shopping, while bespectacled students will respond 
 well to conversations about science and aliens, and so forth. They will respond the same way to 
 the same dialogue option each time, and there aren't that many dialogue options in total, so it's 
 pretty easy to build up a good relationship with anyone you meet (assuming that's what you want) . 
 It's also really repetitive. Characters will respond with a brief, digitized bit of gibberish along 
 with a little text, but since you'll mostly be interacting with characters because you need to 
 befriend them, it becomes natural to just gloss over the dialogue while gradually boosting your 
 affinity to the character.  

          You'll spend a lot of time interacting with other characters in The Urbz, but the way the 
 conversations pan out gets old quickly.     

  The problem is, you sometimes get important clues or advice in the dialogue text, and if you miss 
 them, you can easily lose track of what you're supposed to be doing. The game maintains a log of 
 your pending missions, but the log entries don't provide specific details, so woe unto you should 
 you happen to overlook an important bit of text. Mission-giving characters won't repeat themselves 
 if you need them to, so you'll be left to wander around until you stumble upon the next leg of 
 the mission. Sometimes this isn't so bad, since key characters will appear with a big exclamation 
 point over their heads, but on other occasions, you might have to give something to someone, and 
 keeping track of these goals is a lot tougher than losing track of them.  

  Nevertheless, The Urbz can be pretty fun and addictive, between managing your motives, mastering 
 the minigames for maximum cash rewards, and advancing the sometimes-surprising storyline. There 
 are really no cosmetic differences between the GBA and DS versions, each of which sports the same 
 fairly smoothly animated but somewhat rough-looking prerendered graphics and the same clear, catchy, 
 but slightly repetitive soundtrack. The game sounds a bit better than it looks, overall, and the 
 fact that the visuals were clearly designed primarily with the GBA in mind is going to disappoint 
 DS owners expecting the game to flex the new portable's polygon-processing muscle.  

  Of course, the DS version does take advantage of the touch screen -- or, rather, it makes use of 
 it. You still mostly play the game using the D pad and face buttons, but you'll need to use the 
 touch screen to manipulate menus, such as to save your progress or to buy something. Sometimes 
 it's advantageous to be able to see the main screen and subscreen at the same time, such as when 
 you're trying to get your bearings while looking at your map. For the most part, though, it's easier 
 to use the GBA's standard menus than the more-finicky touch-sensitive menus on the DS. Probably 
 the most frustrating aspect of the DS menu system is the mechanic for buying stuff -- you tap once 
 on an item to get its description and pricing, and tap again to purchase it. Unfortunately, that 
 second tap can easily happen by accident, which can cause you to spend huge amounts of money on 
 something you didn't even want (you can sell it back for a fraction of what you just spent, or 
 load a saved game and avoid making the same mistake) . This isn't a crippling problem so much as 
 an ironic annoyance.  

          Good things come in small packages.     

  There are some other differences between the two versions. Some of the minigames make use of the 
 touch screen instead of the D pad. The text is sharper but smaller on the DS, making it somewhat 
 more difficult to read, but you don't need to scroll through it, as you sometimes do on the GBA. 
 The GBA also provides some basic multiplayer support -- several of the minigames, including the Excitebike 
 rip-off, let several players link up together. This option would have been welcome on the fledgling 
 DS, with its wireless multiplayer features, but unfortunately it's absent. Again, though, the DS 
 version of The Urbz is marginally better overall, since it features quite a bit more content, including 
 several exclusive minigames and the previously mentioned missions. The exclusive content is mostly 
 quite difficult to find, and you probably wouldn't instantly recognize it unless you're familiar 
 with the GBA version's features, but it still adds more replay value to the game. Then again, these 
 bonuses do come at a price, since the DS version of the game retails for more than the GBA version. 

  The Urbz is ultimately an unusual game for a variety of reasons. It's the first cross-platform 
 port from the Game Boy Advance to the DS, and, hopefully, it's also going to be one of the last. 
 After all, from a technical standpoint, it's perfectly clear that the DS is capable of a much more 
 impressive presentation, both in terms of creative uses of the touch screen and in terms of sheer 
 technical prowess. On the other hand, The Urbz is a fairly unique and interesting little role-playing 
 game in its own right, which should appeal to fans of similarly themed games like The Sims, Animal 
 Crossing, or Harvest Moon.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (58 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: PwnMaster94
Rating: 8.5
Date: Apr 26, 2008 5:15 am PT
Review:  The Urbz: Sims in the City is a great game for the DS and it's a good game to bring around with 
 you. This game is fractionally like the Sims in a sense that you can decorate your house but the 
 Urbz: Sims in the City is more of an average RPG. The storyline in the game is good but it's nothing 
 special. The graphics aren't amazing but you can easily make out what you're doing and the world 
 in which you play isn't huge. What I really liked about this game was the fact that even if you've 
 beaten the game, there's still stuff to do. It's not the type of game that you beat and then forget 
 about it. There are loads of mini games to do and you can also just go around town maximizing your 
 relationships or you can just have fun becoming really rich. The Urbz: Sims in the City is the 
 type of game that you can play over and over again. I think it's great. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mars211
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 10, 2008 8:27 am PT
Review:  a great game if you like playing Sims. Cool mini games that are addictive, though filling the motives 
 can get annoying at times, the great game still makes up for it, the missions are interesting, 
 and it is not too stressful, a relaxing game to play. its one of my favorite DS games. I like the 
 fact that it does not use a stylus to move the characters so it is much easier to get around and 
 does not take up much time. However the repetitive game play does irritate at times, but i still 
 find it interesting and a challenge to play. I like simple games so this game is perfect for me. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nicklap5
Rating: 7.3
Date: Jul 3, 2007 2:27 pm PT
Review:  THis games is really fun. making a house with a friend is really fun. when playing 2 player its 
 like a competition to see who is more popular. there is soomuch to do. and it has the black eyed 
 peas in there 2. the gameplay is really simple and is kinda boring but hey its a good thing when 
 doin sooo much its so easy to control. the thing that keeps u goin with this game is seeing how 
 popular u can get. all the stuff u can get. since there is no story thats the oonly thing really 
 keeping u goin. o ya and the weird sims language gets kinda annoyin. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: erica2368
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jun 29, 2007 10:41 am PT
Review:  Last year while searching in a bargain bin I ran across a lot of games for about $5 I bought every 
 single one ran home and ran a price comparsion. Most of them were suppose to be $19 and up so I 
 was really excited. But I stored them on my shelf and never opened most. Finally around November 
 06 I opened URBZ. I thought it would be a quick play and I would just store it away but no, I ended 
 up playing for 4 hours that day!
  
  That was the beginning of my love affair with SIMS and I also realized what my favorite genre of 
 games were.
  
  Ok about the game, I would have scored it a 10 but there is a glitch in a game that made it annoying, 
 actually two. The first is if you sell all of your trash in the beginning when you get to the end 
 there is no trash and you can't finish your rep mission with the artsies and the second glich is... well 
 here is a hint SAVE SAVE SAVE because sometimes especially near the end the game will freeze.
 
  
  I was upset about the artsies rep mission because I completed everything there is in the game but 
 that. This game has unlocked the doors for me to buy Sims 2, Sim City and Sims Pets and I am praying 
 that a Sims will come out for the Wii. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kingster78
Rating: 8.9
Date: Jun 28, 2007 9:17 am PT
Review:  Starting off with the cons? Music and graphics require more to . No multi player (I think if there 
 was some more work, that there could have been one. Character talking is rather shallow and it's 
 really repetetive. The game is repetetive but it's fun to play anyway.
  
  Now with the pros. Game play: 10/10 the moving furniture, the story, pets, pet shows, mini game/jobs, 
 it's all fun. (Me, I'm a house freak so if theres a game with a house to decorate, I get all crazy 
 .) It had my sort of game play. And as for the repetetivity? Just give yourself a bit of rest time 
 before resuming gameplay. (Time varies among types of people) Even if it isn't all that like in 
 the pc games, it's still fun. I believe the difficulty was JUST RIGHT for me. It wasn't long time 
 sleeping over the DS waiting for a single person to come and be talked to because my social level 
 was too low. Of course it wasn't a huge crowd easily talked to either. I admit I hated the entire 
 spend ten minutes on stats thing but the pc has that too. the story line wasn't too hard and it's 
 all fun and games. The story line's optional (sort of. It wasn't optional for me because I wanted 
 good houses!) Secrets are another part of gameplay. =secrets if you want to find them out yourself, 
 don't read on= It's fun to just go to the stat improving smoothie ninja! or if you want to take 
 the phone to lunar land, that's fun too! The secret places you cant put extra furniture into! the 
 trashcan or school bus. It's all nice and exciting!
  
  As far as graphics go, Nintendo never seemed to have it big there. It was alright. Better yet, 
 was sound. The endless theme song was alright by me. OF COURSE THERE WAS THE EXCRUCIATING forty 
 second sof MAXWELL and EB Games and to begin the game? another 3 minutes of walking across a street 
 seeing big daddy scowl at you. WOW EXCITING! *sarcasm* Could've used more work. Back to the bright 
 side, great variety! Nice houses to choose from. Lots of different foods and choices. You can choose 
 what kind of people you hang with: nerds, rich freaks, jocks, and of course our artists (which 
 i just Can't seem to talk to right) You can meet the undead too! Choose your clothing then change 
 it whenever you want! Now when you read the title you should've know there would be no zombies 
 to shoot down or no fireballs to throw at monsters. Of course your pets make nice things. You can 
 get a cute bunny to a fierce dragon. It doesn't bite, no really! Pet shows give money and are fun 
 to play in except annoying stat things. (HUNGER!? sad? tired? URG!) Of course, I like my share 
 of fun fighting too, but this is a nice game in itself. No matter what you want, I recommend this 
 game to you. It may not have what you're looking for but it'll give you a new genre of interest. 
 It's an amazing game overall and this is the game for a lot of people. DS is a fine handheld if 
 you find the right games and this is one of them! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: therealapowers
Rating: 7.4
Date: Jun 14, 2007 4:35 pm PT
Review:  Being a big fan of the first Sims game on the PC, my parents bought me the first game in this series 
 for the GBA: The Sims: Bustin' Out . I was a big fan, so when this one came out on the DS, i automatically 
 wanted to buy it. The thing is, the game hasn't evolved much. This was a launch title for the DS, 
 so the developers probably thought that they could just get away with putting the GBA version on 
 the DS. (With some touch capabilities, of course.) The graphics and music are dated, but the key 
 for me is the gameplay and witty dialogue. If the writer for the Sims series put out a book, i 
 would buy it in a heartbeat. Every item (and there's a lot of them,) has a unique, quirky description. 
 The game doesn't hesitate to make fun of itself, with characters saying things like they feel like 
 they're living in a game. I'm disapointed in the dialogue changes in this game, though. In the 
 original, you could actually say things. Now it's just Talk about weather or Talk about movies 
 . The responses are as clever as ever, but i miss some of the set-up that the first game's dialogue 
 allowed. Overall, this game does have a lot of replay value, but with so many other good games 
 on the DS now, why suffer GBA quality? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GamespotEXE
Rating: 6.9
Date: May 9, 2007 4:57 pm PT
Review:  Honestly, I was never interested in this series, and I probably never will be. My friend, for whatever 
 reason, loaned me The Urbz: Sims in the City so that I could play it on my DS. I found it to be 
 a rather disappointing game, but it had long-lasting appeal with its RPG-type structure.
  
  Gameplay: 6/10 | The storyline of this game (I'm not even sure if it should even be considered 
 a storyline!) is broken . Whenever I play, I find that there really is little purpose for your 
 character's existence. You play mini-games and pick up trash and sell it for Simoleons (this game's 
 form of currency) . At first, it might be somewhat fun squeegeeing off bird poop from the windows 
 or shooting some hoops for money, but it rapidly becomes an extremely generic, repetitive, and 
 confusing RPG. Talking to certain people will either raise or lower your street cred with groups 
 like Nerdies. The people themselves are even boring, repetitive, and redundant after a time, and 
 the whiles during which you talk to them are pathetically terrible. There is no point in the conversations, 
 except running your mouth off until you need to shower, go to the bathroom, sleep, or other things. 
 That system of organization in your character is also rather difficult to maintain and stabilize. 
 You need entertainment, home time, food, sitting, and other useless things you wouldn't desire 
 in an RPG. It's unstable and vague with many flaws, but be hopeful, and you'll get it in time.
 
  
  Graphics: 8/10 | Things begin to perk up here. In-game 3D visuals, while not too detailed, are 
 quite impressive, bright, and colorful. The characters faces actually show emotion when you speak 
 with them! I wasn't impressed, however, with the jagged edges that I noticed and the obviousness 
 of the artificiality of certain visuals like the burgers you can grill. Still, for one of the earlier 
 DS games, it has good, clean 3D graphics that are easily enjoyed.
  
  Sound: 6/10 | Now the roller coaster begins to go down again and fluctuate even more! Sound isn't 
 that great. That is, some sounds like soda cans being vended in a machine or drinking from a water 
 fountain are quite realistic. Music becomes mundane, redundant, and repetitive, and characters' 
 reactions when you begin a talk with them are rather frightening! Hweyo! or Rabladah! as greetings 
 are extremely scary to me. The sound may be creepy, but its quality is fairly good.
  
  Value: 8/10 | The roller coaster now goes up again! You might not get your money's worth nor will 
 you be likely to get good replay value, but this game is truly long-lasting and will be good to 
 pass the time by. You may be flustered and frustrated, but you'll be glad for this game on those 
 long family trips and such boring times.
  
  Tilt: 7/10 | The Urbz: Sims in the City is a solid game, being on the borderline of fair and good.
 
  
  Overall: 6.9/10 Fair | A unique flavor of RPG gameplay, superior, beautifully rendered 3D graphics, 
 a realistic and, at times, moving soundtrack, and a long-lasting appeal combine to give you a solid 
 RPG worthy of you spending time to play. It's good, but even followers of the series and those 
 who read too much into things (like me XD) will find it difficult to understand the purpose of 
 this generic, confusing, and repetitive RPG -- that is, if it even has one... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Bibblebobbyson
Rating: 8
Date: Apr 12, 2007 2:37 pm PT
Review:  The Urbz: Sims In The City is probably on of the best Sims games for the DS. It has a very long 
 gameplay, with a ton of missions.
  
  Gameplay: 8/10
  
  I really like the gameplay because unlike normal Sims games, this one is mission based. So you 
 have to achieve a couple goals to pass a mission. This is way better because you don't do the same 
 routine all the time, which is boring.
  
  Graphics: 7/10
  
  I don't really mind the graphics, but there's one problem, it's just pasted in graphics from the 
 GBA version, there's no actual 3D graphics, so it doesn't even meet up to the potential of DS graphics.
 
  
  Sound: 6/10
  
  The music is probably the best of the sound, but the sound fxs can be really annoying! Like the 
 moaning of your person can get more annoying than someone trying to get your attention while you 
 ignore them and they repeat the same thing over and over again. And most of the sounds were from 
 Sims Bustin' Out.
  
  This game is not the best, but could've been worse. If EA was to put more effort, they could've 
 made a way better game. Honestly, I still recommend this game if you want a Sims game for the DS. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Quintly
Rating: 8.3
Date: Mar 25, 2007 1:38 pm PT
Review:  Can't believe i just said this, but: This game is GOOD. REALLY GOOD. It's definitley worth playing!
 
  
  YOU AND YOU'RE URB PART I:
  Okay, create a Urb is boring. I don't see much variety, and i hate that! The clothes/colours are 
 so lame! The haircuts are good, i suppose... But the rest is just bad. Really bad...
  
  YOU AND YOU'RE URB PART II:
  ... But i DO like creating the PERSONALITY of that Urb! It's different, 
 it's fresh, it's funny. What more do you need?
  
  CONVERSATIONS:
  This is THE BEST of the whole game! CHOOSING THE ANSWERS!!! You can make it so sarcastic, funny, 
 dumb or serious as you want to! (But the most answers on questions are SARCASTIC... Ooh boy, i 
 love sarcasm) GRAPHICS:
  I don't care about graphics. So, i won't comment on graphics. Case closed.
  
  CHARACTERS:
 
  Some characters are lame, some characters are stupid, some characters are cool... But they have 
 one thing in common: They're all funny! You might saw some of those characters in The Sims 2 on 
 the DS. (Characters like Dusty Hogg, Pepper Pete...) MISSION (S) :
  Defeat Daddy,... Uhh... Daddy... Daddy something! (Oh God, forgot his name and i'm too lazy to 
 check back!) Other characters will ask you do to a favour... AND WHO ARE YOU TO REFUSE?!?! The 
 most missions are funny and easy... Accept when it comes to talk with people or earn money!
  
  CELEBS?!?!:
  Some characters in this game reminds me of some certain famous people! I mean, 
 look at LOTTIE CASH. She is sooo similar to Paris Hilton... (The dog, the money, her behaviour) 
 Or that DARRYL guy (Is it Darryl? Or was it another name? Well, i mean the guy with the blue sportssuit) 
 looks like Ice Cube! Also check those other characters; they may look familair...
  
  BLAH, BLAH, BLAH:
  Talkin' to people to get you're rel with them up is sooo lame...
  
  CREATIVE, 
 RICH, SMART OR COOL. YOU CHOOSE!:
  Okay, choose; what do you wanna be? When you create you're Urb in the beginning of the game, you 
 will -based on you're answers of the questions- part of one of those gangs. STORY:
  Omigado, a really good story! I must say: It's not realistic, but sarcastic as hell.
  
  TIME 
 SPENT?:
  Well, in less then 10 hours you might reach the finish... But because' it's so funny, i started 
 over again! :D
  
  SO...:
  What else i got to say? Well, nothing actually!
  
  CONCLUSION:
  It's not a MUST HAVE, but it's definitley WORTH PLAYING. Ciaozz, Quintly. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MarioRocks1
Rating: 9.2
Date: Feb 18, 2007 1:58 pm PT
Review:  Urbz: SIms in the city will easily last you 10 times of beating, it's that fun.
  
  Graphics: Are okay. If you stare at the Ghost Squirrel too long it starts to become glitchy like. 
 Frame rate is good, graphics are good enough to please.
  
  Sound: Excellent music. The Sims say the same ol' things in their same ol' language. Different 
 voice reactions depending on what you talk about with them.
  
  Gameplay: GREAT. Much to do in the storyline. Very addicting the only bad part is trying to raise 
 your FREAKING POPULARITY! I hate doing that I would give gameplay a perfect 100.
  
  Value: Will last almost forever. You can keep doing the story line over and over or you can just 
 try and get 1,000,000 simoleons with one sim. Overall: Excellent game. 9 of 10 DS owners would 
 love this game. A must get. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Superdude028
Rating: 6.8
Date: Feb 5, 2007 3:08 pm PT
Review:  The Urbz, yet another game to add to Maxis's library of Games based on the Sims but not nearly 
 as good. The game may be fun to play, but it's not something to commit hours on, like I did (sadly) .
 
  
  The Urbz does have some bright spots, otherwise the rating would be lower. The storyline is alright, 
 the graphics are OK, but what is really cool are the character interactions. You get to pick what 
 to talk about, and it all comes down to memorizing the interests of different people. Unlockables 
 are alright, the minigames are addictive, and it isn't real-time based. The game is a good time-passer.
 
  
  However, i don't like a lot of things. The music could do better. The item range is limited. The 
 houses are limited. What really bugs me is a glitch which involves the fact that you cannot reenter 
 a clubhouse after saving outside if you're a Richie. Richies also break the game with the heal-all 
 tank. Yick.
  
  Overall, it's an OK game, but it can do better. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mario121212
Rating: 9.2
Date: Dec 10, 2006 9:16 pm PT
Review:  The Urbz is an awsome game which sets you in a mini world of awsomeness.
  
  You can create your own character from scratch and asks you to answer a few questions and depending 
 on your answers you gain a Rep group and different Xizzles.
  
  There are 4 rep groups, Richies, Nerdies, Arties, Streeties. Each rep gorups has there own different 
 set of Rep Missions that don't need to completed in order to finish the game, but is worth it. 
 You gain rep points if you do certain things; ie: if you complete all your Rep Missions you gain 
 2 rep points or if you have a negative relationship with the rival gang you gain 1 rep point.
 
  You gain popularity by interacting and improving with fellow Urbz.
  
  The gameplay is the best part if the game, you have to complete Missions (6 missions) and in each 
 mission there are 6 Goals, and in each goal there are 3-6 tasks. You also have to complete different 
 Mini-Games for money, there are 5 levels in each Mini-Game that earn more money the higher the 
 level. It is a game with great longevity (25Hrs+) and will keep you engaged.
  
  The DS capabilitys arn't in the form of a few mini-games (Docter Max Stat, Magoo Monkey, Gene Splicer, 
 Sushi Sensei) and a touch screen PDA.
  
  The DS version of the Urbz has a DS exclusive Mission and Area (Splicer Island) as well as extra 
 Mini-Games and NPC's.
  
  The graphics are better than the GBA version, which is kinda dissapointing, but are still great. 
 That said, if you don't have the GBA version then BUY this. It was very worh it and still play 
 it today. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: liukang666
Rating: 1
Date: Sep 9, 2006 11:58 pm PT
Review:  this is one of the stupidest games i have ever seen. it seems that after the affect of the the companys 
 other failed experiments, they had the audacity to create this game. mostly for me to review, because 
 i loooove bad games. lets get this show on the road. =) The gameplay is as bad as the others and 
 makes no sence.. like always you have to shower, and use the restroom, and a million other things 
 so you cant carry on a decent conversation w/ anybody. the graphics are really bad, to the point 
 to where you think that a building might be your character. even w/ the sound switch off, you can 
 just sence the painful aura. i played this game for about 5min before i had to stop. i have never 
 picked it up since. either you will love it for a while and get it or you will find it as adatious 
 and disgraceful as me. choose my side. plz. dont waste $20.00 on this! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sentay0
Rating: 1.8
Date: Sep 6, 2006 2:17 pm PT
Review:  The Urbz Sims in the City, Sims usually equals fun mundane game well not this time it doesn't this 
 game is horrible half the time you don't know what your supposed to do the other half of the time 
 your repeating the same job over and over so you don't starve pass out and get thrown in jail (why 
 do you get thrown in jail for 3 days or fined $100 for your character is in trouble and they throw 
 you in JAIL!!!) WTF they first job you get is the easiest and gives out the most money much more 
 than any of your later jobs, and they took out the best part of the sims games you cant destroy 
 your house its physically impossible, you can't even set your house on fire, and you can't design 
 your house which you want to set on fire. Trust me its not worth it buy a better game like Metroid 
 Prime Hunters, "New" Super Mario Bros, or Mario Kart DS. JUST DON'T BUY THIS GAME! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: KingKRool01
Rating: 5.7
Date: Jul 29, 2006 2:47 pm PT
Review:  The Urbz: Sims in the City is a poorly made Sims experience. In fact, this is a completely different 
 experience from the original Sims title. The Sims was a slow paced game where you could play God 
 and control how people live their lives. Unfortunately, the Urbz doesn't give you the same freedom 
 that the original Sims gave you.
  
  The object of this game is to basically become as popular as you can by having social interaction 
 with other characters. You gain "Rep," which is Urbz slang for reputation, over time by interacting 
 with others. You'll also have to do many errands that other characters give you, to help you progress 
 to other neighborhoods.
  
  This is basically the entire game. You will have to go out and do errands for other characters 
 that aren't really that fun to complete at all. As you complete more goals, more areas will become 
 available to you, and you'll be able to buy bigger homes.
  
  The joys you had of building a mansion home are pretty much dumbed down. You can't live with an 
 entire family, or control another character throughout the entire game, which also makes this experience 
 pretty dull. Because of the goals and objectives you have to complete in order to progress, you 
 might not get to that dream home you've wanted to move into for a long while.
  
  Earning money to buy items for your home also takes time. Jobs have been turned into mini-games, 
 so you'll have to remember to play these mini-games once a day (in-game times) . You can only play 
 the same mini-game once a day. The more promotions you get by increasing your stats allow you to 
 receive more money every time you play.
  
  Since every real life second is the equivalent of an in-game minute, you might have to rest every 
 once in a while. This is a huge flaw in the game. Every 5 minutes, my Sim would whine about having 
 to use the restroom. This was very annoying. Not only does using the toilet waste a large amount 
 of time, but it also takes away precious time from completing your objectives.
  
  The gameplay isnt really a big hit here. All of the goals are repetitive and tedious. You can 
 eventually have a pet, but it just doesnt help out with the replay value. Its all flat out boring.
 
  
  I do think the dialogue is pretty increasing though. Out of the boring mediocre gameplay, the dialogue 
 text with other characters is pretty humorous. It also gives you some thoughtful advice from time 
 to time.
  
  This might as well have been a GBA game after all. Graphics are nothing special for the DS. This 
 game is exactly the same as the GBA version of the game. There was no effort to make the graphics 
 a little bit tighter on the DS hardware. Everything seems to be made of clay. Im not a fan of 
 this type of design at all. The Urbz also doesnt take advantage of the DS touch screen. You can 
 only use it for menus, and occasionally mini-games. Thats really it. The music also sounds a lot 
 like the GBA version. Theres nothing special here at all.
  
  Im pretty disappointed in this game. The Urbz: Sims in the City is a very boring experience. This 
 game is filled with tedious and repetitive goals, bad visuals, annoying motives to make your Sim 
 happy, and just too little to do. Even though the game takes maybe over than 20 hours to complete, 
 I had no motivation. I wanted nothing to do with the game after playing the game for maybe 4 hours. 
 It was just too boring to continue. The Urbz: Sims in the City is a poor excuse for a DS game. 
 Im sure this title will be ignored for years to come. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lettyjb
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jul 10, 2006 9:07 am PT
Review:  The Urbz was launched after "The Sims Bustin' Out", the first The Sims of the type. In these games 
 you still control people and make them work, learn, etc. But they are very different from "The 
 Sims" and "The Sims 2". In them you control one character only and you have specific goals to conquer.
 
  This addition of having goals to complete made the game really interesting, in a way that you 
 have a more focused objective, but at the same time you still have that virtual life characteristic 
 of the sims, where you can decorate your house, live your life the way you want to. It also is 
 the strongest difference between this game and the original The Sims, making it a completely different 
 game.
  This Urbz is basically the same from Game Boy Advanced. 
  "In Urbz the Sims In The City" you control a character that works in a company that is being sold 
 to another man that is very bad and has fired you. You begin by living in a deposit from this company 
 in which the janitor has let you live until you found another place to settle.
  As you progress through the game you complete goals that advances the story and makes you improve 
 your life, by moving somewhere better, finding new jobs, etc. But your main objective is to bring 
 down the awful man that now is in charge of the company.
  The gameplay of this game is great and the graphics are good.
  I didn't use to like the idea 
 of playing the sims on a console, I've always preferred it on the computer, but this one I really 
 enjoyed, maybe because it is not a real "the sims", it is definitely one of my favourite games... 
 If you like the sims or virtual life games, you'll probably like this one. If you don't, you could 
 at least try it out once it is so different from the already known the sims... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hipppvix
Rating: 8.3
Date: Jun 25, 2006 10:43 pm PT
Review:  This is a different aproach of the characters but, still the same concept. And that concept is 
 a good one. Plus now you can do this on a portable system, which lets you play The Sims anywhere 
 you want! 
  
  Even though the characters can not be changed as much as any of the other Sims games, you can still 
 change their clothes. And now buying the items is a lot different too, instead of going to the 
 menu you have to go to the shop you want to buy something from and buy it there. Also in The Urbz 
 you can change your house, but you cannot custimise it at all besides putting different furniture. 
 Plus you can get pets you never dreamed of!
  
  But after all these changes I think that the new Sims is still really good. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gstonyr
Rating: 9.2
Date: Jun 23, 2006 8:06 pm PT
Review:  The Urbz: Sims in the City was definitely better than I thought. The game is pretty slow, and boring 
 at first, but then it gets really fun at the end. There is so much to do, and the game is so long, 
 and hard. 
  The gameplay is outstanding. There is just so much to do, the game is long, but never gets boring, 
 sometimes I dont follow the action game, and just build character, and make it into like a life 
 tycoon... lol. 
  The graphics, and sound are very good for the ds! The details is amazing, on everything, and the 
 sound is very clear. The value is great cause the game lasts like forever, and its only $30. Personally 
 I think the game is great, and would be even better if it wasn't so high. Please read all my other 
 reviews, and please give me FEEDBACK!
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: humantarget00
Rating: 7
Date: May 12, 2006 8:45 pm PT
Review:  This game may look just like another attempt to cash in on the apparently unending sim-mania, but 
 when you actually play it you'll discover that it's a real hidden treasure. Its far superior in 
 it's DS iteration than in the console versions, and is way more fun. What's so surprisingly good 
 about it is hard to put your finger on, its a case of the whole being greater than the sum of 
 its parts.
  
  You start with almost nothing but the clothes on your back but you'll have ample earning opportunities 
 as you travel throughout the city, to the bayou, and even to secret islands. There's plenty of 
 space to stretch your custom-clothed legs in. The large game-world makes you feel free in a large 
 habitat when compared to the original Sims games; which make you feel enclosed in a little box.
 
  
  You can choose your Sims gender and what clothes he/she is wearing, adding a bit of uniqueness 
 to your avatar. And while it doesn't have as big a catalog of gear to choose from as The Sims does, 
 (Especially with all those expansion packs, sheesh...) it's nice to choose what your Urb is going 
 to look like and will be wearing.
  
  The game features a new "group" system which, according to the questions you answer in character 
 creation, assigns your character to membership either the Nerdie, Artsie, Richie or Streetie group. 
 (I was, of course, thrown in with the Nerdies.) Regardless of the group you are assigned to you 
 will still go through the main storyline, but will have access to a different set of side-quest 
 goals.
  
  At one point during the game there is a neat mini-game that, depending on how well you do, allows 
 you to acquire a bigger and better pet to play with in the zoo place. This is the kind of fun little 
 detail that makes the game as a whole a worthwhile experience. You can even name your animal. (I 
 named mine after myself, of course!)
  
  The missions, (goals) have you going all around the town, bayou, island, etc, to specific spots, 
 such as the tops of building and many interesting places to meet colorful characters and perform 
 various and sundry tasks. Many mini-games will be available throughout each day and you can make 
 much-needed money from them. After a while, though, only a few these mini-games are even worth 
 playing for the money and usually they're going to be the ones you have the ideal skill point arrangement 
 for.
  
  The storyline is interesting and fun to play though. And while the visuals really aren't anything 
 special for the DS, they wont be a problem unless you're really picky about games having cutting-edge 
 graphics. The sound is pretty much in the same boat- nothing special but not bad. Still the game 
 loses a point or two due to the graphics and sound.
  
  Overall the The Urbz! is really an enjoyable experience for folks who want more of a game and less 
 of a simulation (compared to the original Sims games) but if you'd rather get something newer-looking 
 for the DS consider The Sims 2 which is comparable but sports a more attractive 3D perspective 
 and actually sells for less at many stores. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: wee_ged_2005
Rating: 8.8
Date: Apr 17, 2006 10:34 am PT
Review:  The urbz sims in the city is a great game and I'm proud to have it the only bad thing about the 
 game was that you get robbed too often and it's just depressing all those simleons and you get 
 every 5 minutes the good thing is that so easy to earn cash the jobs you do are so easy and don't 
 take long to do and by the time you've done most of them you get around $180 to $600 there's no 
 problem getting popular in it either you talk to a person for 2 minutes and then you've got a point 
 with the streeties or richies etc. so BUY IT PLAY IT LOVE IT. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sjesseph
Rating: 7
Date: Mar 28, 2006 9:29 pm PT
Review:  Like all the sims games (if you have played them before) you pick your Sim and make it look the 
 way you want. This game is played in the city and you have to take care of your sim by eating, 
 showering, bathroom and you also have social needs. This game is played by working jobs to make 
 money and trying to get a good rep in the city with the other sims. The graphics are ok not as 
 good as you would think for DS and the sound is ok too. All in all it is a pretty fun game and 
 I have yet to finsish it but am sure I will. If you are a sim fan... Give it a try. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: flinnha
Rating: 7.8
Date: Mar 17, 2006 1:55 pm PT
Review:  If you are a fan of the Sims type games I think this one is worth your look. It's similar enough 
 in style that old hands will be comfortable playing it, yet adds enough new features that you won't 
 find it boring. 
  Your Sim gets to live his or her life out in the city this time around, renting an apartment or 
 house of your choice as you go. You can change your apartment and move anytime you like which is 
 handy as you start doing tasks in different areas of town. Your old motivations are the same (sleep, 
 eat, potty, fun, etc) but this time taking a shower doesn't cost you 3 hours of game time like 
 it used to. Remember trying to send your Sim to work how you were always still on the pot when 
 your carpool showed up? Not a problem anymore! Your Sim now gets to play mini-games at your leisure 
 to earn money. Wash windows, play basketball, moogoo monkey, and more. You also can attend class 
 now for a nominal fee and 2 hours of time to increase your stats. Hold items in an inventory (you 
 can put your sofa in your pocket!!) to carry around sometimes using to complete deliveries and 
 tasks people ask of you.
  It's good fun to just pick up and play every once in a while even after you're past the "play it 
 all the time cause it's my new game" phase. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: computerman92
Rating: 1.4
Date: Mar 11, 2006 10:40 am PT
Review:  The Urbz: Sims in the City for the DS is so boring. It starts off ok, but after an hour or two 
 playing, it becomes dull. I would not advise any one to buy this game for the Nintendo DS. Mabey 
 it is better for other systems. Once this game became boring I traded it in at Game Stop for Nintendogs. 
 IT was worth it. The game becomes repetitive. You do the same thing. Mabey the Sim 2 for the DS 
 is better. The only thing good about this game is the Mini-games. Though if you were thinking of 
 buying this game, I would advise you not to. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: crazymisstee
Rating: 7.3
Date: Feb 14, 2006 12:01 pm PT
Review:  i found the game to be interesting at times..... then it just lost its story line to me... i do however 
 suggest it as a game to play to inforce the fact that the graphics and the fun in the game is very 
 limited.
  
  there are a few little missions you will get stuck on at times and a hint for players just starting 
 any rubbish you collect to not sale to deputy as you will need it later on in the game.......
 
  
  have to write a least 100 words and there really isnt alot to say about this game others den its 
 
  
  ok ok ok ok ok ok ok ok ok ok ok ok ok ok ok ok ok ok ok ok ok ok ok ok ok ok ok ok ok ok ok ok 
 ok ok ok ok ok ok ok ok ok ok ok ok ok ok ok ok ok ok ok ok ok ok ok ok ok ok ok ok ok ok ok ok 
 ok ok ok ok ok ok ok ok ok ok ok 
::::::

::::::
UserName: crypto-236
Rating: 7.1
Date: Feb 14, 2006 6:01 am PT
Review:  Given the unprecedented success of The Sims, the EA and Maxis franchise that's all about controlling 
 every aspect of the lives of little virtual suburbanites, it's not much of a shock that the series 
 eventually took it to the streets. Enter The Urbz: Sims in the City, which is a hybrid of The Sims' 
 easy-to-grasp, addictive gameplay and kid-friendly urban-hipster sensibility. The Game Boy Advance 
 and Nintendo DS versions of the game, which are mostly identical, are actually full-on adventure 
 role-playing games, featuring a lengthy quest, lots of characters to meet and interact with, and 
 a number of fairly entertaining minigames. The game's mundane subject matter sometimes overwhelms 
 the experience, since having to frequently rest, shower, and relieve yourself in the game is about 
 as much fun as it sounds. But The Urbz nevertheless provides some surprising depth and lasting 
 value. 
  
  
  You begin your urban adventure by creating your alter ego. You can choose to play as either a boy 
 or a girl, whom you can name and customize with different-colored clothing. This modern rags-to-riches 
 tale begins appropriately enough: You get fired from your menial job, and in your efforts to earn 
 it back, you end up in even bigger trouble. You end up in the slammer, to be precise. Fortunately, 
 you can convince the affable detective who puts you away to, in turn, put you on probation. You'll 
 then earn some money from shooting hoops at a basketball court, and then use these funds to put 
 a down payment on a new apartment. Now it's time to rise through the city's social hierarchy, by 
 befriending everyone you meet, bettering yourself as a person, making lots of dough, and buying 
 better stuff. The Urbz isn't a strictly linear adventure, but you'll still go through its main 
 series of story-driven tasks sequentially, while exploring the New Orleans-inspired city of Miniopolis 
 and interacting with all its denizens. 
  
  The Urbz turns out to be quite a long game, and will probably take you at least 20 or 25 hours 
 to get through. On the DS, it can take even longer, since this version features additional content 
 not found on the GBA -- most notably, a unique series of missions involving an ambitious sushi chef, 
 trained monkeys, and a pet show. You'll find that the city feels pretty big from the get-go, even 
 though it's really only a couple of blocks in size. However, this is just the tip of the iceberg, 
 as you'll unlock many more areas to explore as you progress through the story. Yet the real reason 
 The Urbz provides such a long-lasting play experience is that the gameplay, partly for the better 
 and partly for the worse, is noticeably padded out. 
  
  As in The Sims, your character here has a number of "motives" that you need to keep satisfied as 
 you go about your other tasks. You'll be able to clearly monitor these via a series of colored 
 bars onscreen, and filling them back up to optimal levels is a simple matter of using an appropriate 
 object. For example, if your hygiene motive is running low, it's time for a shower, or if your 
 bladder motive is running low, it's off to the toilet. Your apartment will be furnished with some 
 of the basic amenities to help you stay on top of these important matters, but other places in 
 the city will let you accomplish the same goals. In practice, you'll probably find that attending 
 to all your motives is overly time-consuming. If one of your motives falls to less than 20 percent 
 of its maximum, your character will fidget for several moments, and then become unresponsive to 
 dialogue with other characters until you get that motive fixed. Plus, certain key appliances may 
 eventually break, requiring you to take the extra time to get them repaired. There's plenty of 
 additional gameplay in The Urbz, so doing all that while also maintaining your motives can feel 
 like quite a handful. Still, you can't fault the game for giving you plenty to consider at any 
 given moment. 
  
  
  The storyline focuses on your mostly selfish efforts to help the community ward off a money-grubbing 
 land developer bent on turning Miniopolis into a soulless tourist attraction, but it takes a lot 
 of amusing little detours along the way. For example, you'll unlock a broad assortment of minigames 
 as you progress, and these are key because they're your best means of earning money in the game. 
 Minigames include the previously mentioned basketball contest, a matching puzzle, window washing, 
 stand-up comedy, motocross racing, and more. All these are simple, but some are quite challenging, 
 such as the matching game and the motocross racing, the latter of which is a copy of the Nintendo 
 Entertainment System classic Excitebike. You can level up in each of the minigames, which makes 
 your success in them much more lucrative, but also quickens the pacing and makes the games themselves 
 more challenging in other ways. At any rate, the variety of gameplay that these provide is refreshing, 
 and they're nicely animated and fun to watch, at least for a while. 
  
  You level up in The Urbz much like you would in any other standard role-playing game. You have 
 a number of statistics -- such as body, creativity, and logic -- that you can augment by repeatedly 
 using certain objects. This is a bland process, requiring that you simply wait while your character 
 conducts research on a computer, performs a soliloquy in the mirror, and so forth. But in exchange 
 for your patience, you'll gain the skill necessary to level up in your favorite minigames, and 
 therefore earn a lot more cash. It's possible to upgrade your character in other ways, too. There 
 are a few different vehicles that you'll acquire during the course of the game, and you'll also 
 find or be given special beads that can be exchanged for certain permanent bonuses called "xizzles." 
 Probably the most useful of these bonuses make you more resistant to your motives, but even then, 
 you'll still be spending lots of time sleeping, eating, and so forth. Even so, it's good that The 
 Urbz has a fully realized character-building system. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: EliteDForce
Rating: 6.5
Date: Jan 30, 2006 7:27 pm PT
Review:  It lack's life. Simple challenge's with relatively mundane solution's and a unsatisfying interaction 
 capabilities. Weak relationship development and a cast of drained and lifeless neighbors to keep 
 your time between task's even more boring.
  
  Despite all these flaw's there's a satisfying sense of customization in both fashion and home to 
 be found. As well as an open to explore environment and a variety of mini-game's that act as job's 
 to get money from.
  
  Gameplay - 6
  A lot of time's it leave's you bored and aimless, with drained variety outside of simple mini-game's 
 and an explorable (yet small and bland) city. A weak utilization of dual screen's or touch screen's.
 
  
  Graphics - 6
  While they are sharp, they are very weak and disappointing. The sprite's all look undefined.
 
  
  Sound - 6
  The usual bland mix of sim sound's that are both realistically boring and unsocially apparent.
 
  
  Overall - 6.5
  While there's certainly a plethora of flaw's to be found, it does provide a slightly entertaining 
 game. 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: rockdan101
Rating: 9.1
Date: Jan 17, 2006 8:13 am PT
Review:  GAMEPLAY:
  This games gameplay is great. If you like sims you will love this. Its basicly the sims except its 
 urban and ofcourse you directly control your character which works surprisingly well for the ds. The 
 only downside is theres not many clothes to put your character into and the plot could be better.
 
  GRAPHICS:
  The graphics are ok and the framerate is pretty smooth.
  SOUND:
  The music suits the game pretty well but there could be a little more variety, like when you switch 
 your stereo in your apartment to rock it could actually be a guitar playing but instaed it's only 
 a drum playing the same beat over and over again.
  LASTABILITY:
  The game has excallent lastability as you can keep on playing after you complete the campaign.
 
  
  This game is for anyone who likes sims!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Syluvan
Rating: 8.7
Date: Jan 8, 2006 10:52 am PT
Review:  This game is easily one of my favorites of all the games I've ever played. I've always enjoyed 
 virtual life games -- like Sims and Animal Crossing (the latter being my personal favorite) -- and 
 this game is no exception. Being able to stylize your character to nearly your every whim, and 
 to customize other features (i. e. house, partners, pets, etc.) in a similar fashion, is always 
 an added bonus to a great time. Besides that, the gameplay is good; it has an involving plot, with 
 lots of twists and side-quests. To add to this, the game gets better as you progress, which is 
 rare. Raising your reputation among certain groups gets you new, specialized skills and bonuses. 
 For example, a good rep with the "Artsie" group -- the art-loving, slightly crazy, always fun people -- will 
 get you a device to change the colors of your hair and skin, giving you means to become anything 
 from an albino to a demon to a green-skinned, iridescent-haired alien. Also, an island will appear 
 after you complete a series of goals, which will allow you to create pets like you've never seen 
 before -- jackalopes, unicorns, tyranosaurs, velociroosters (my fave -- who wouldn't want a ferocious, 
 raptor-sized chicken?... no, I wasn't kidding...) , green gorillas... you name it, you can likely 
 get it. Sorry, no dogs; you need the GBA version for that. The DS version is easily better, though, 
 and makes perfect use of the touch screen as a menu that can be used even when you aren't paused. 
 For any lover of life simulation games, this is one that can't be missed. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: necromaticgamer
Rating: 2.9
Date: Jan 3, 2006 7:13 pm PT
Review:  Disapointing. This game is horible. It makes me so sad I could cry, I love the Sims. This was the 
 first DS game i bought beculse I thoght it was a Sims game. Big mastake. Basicaly your a good-for-nothing 
 teen who bums off everyone. For crying out loud you live at your work! Well your new boss fires 
 you so your forced to leave and find a home of your own. Theres only 2 houses to pick from though. 
 The house decorating is pretty much the same as the Sims. Beds, counters, showers, pictuers, everythings 
 here. When you buy the food you just pull it out of the frige just like good o'll Sims. Anyway 
 back to the story. You have to find a part time job. Your "jobs" are just mini games. camedians 
 and morterbike races thats a life eh? yea it would be but you hardly get any money from the jobs 
 at all. They try to put some messed up story about cloning err something. i wasent paying atintion. 
 i played it for about 6 hours at the most before i desided this is the worst DS game to date. Not 
 anymore though now we got Elf Bowling hahaha. the graphics are all you would want from a Sims looking 
 game. They could have made them better though, Look at mario and Luigi partnerts in time, those 
 are good graphics for DS. All in all there 64 graphics at best. The sound is very anoying, the 
 same music over and over. even the first time you hear it, it makes your ears bleed. The game play 
 has to be the worst. They soiled the good Sims name SOILED IT! Now its kinnda like a cheep Animal 
 Crossing but 10x worse. But my mom did find it very adictive so I guess its all in tast. Even if 
 you like this game, if you sit down and think about it youll say its horible. So if your a Sims 
 fan go buy Sims 2 that just came out for DS. I dont think its very good eather though. This game 
 has alot of potentule. They could do so much more with a Sims like game for the DS. With the stylis 
 you could draw out blueprints for a house maybe? Or draw the walls? they just give you the bear 
 minumum of whats here. EA games always has and it came back to punch them in the face. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jimmythegent
Rating: 8.3
Date: Jan 1, 2006 9:03 am PT
Review:  Another outstanding hand held Sims game with enough 
  exitement to drown a household pet. In the Urbz for the
  Nintendo DS you play the role of a Janitor 
 in the city of
  Minniopolis. After discovering you've been fired you set
  off to find the missing owner of the building you work on,
  who recently dissapeared. Now word 
 on the street is that
  The owner sold the building to real-estate mogul Daddy
  Bigbucks. The game opens with a not so original story
  but they add plenty of jokes to make the 
 plot more Interesting.
  Sound is an incredible factor in all great games and The Urbz
  for both GBA and DS offer a great soundtrack. As far as 
  gameplay goes theres no special DS 
 controls to move your
  character around, but instead you use the control pad to
  free move your Urb. The bottom screen offers plenty of action
  because the entire bottom screen 
 is your Urb'z PDA, and
  since its a Palm device you get the idea of organizing your
  Urb's life, menu options, And mini games galore. Well
  its all good until the mini games part. 
 The DS version
  offers all the mini games from the GBA counterpart and
  adds a few into the mix. Although the DS exclusive mini
  games are fun you cant play the GBA 
 mini games with
  the stylus. As far as replay value goes, This is simply another
  Sims game with a touch screen. So you know you will have
  hours of enjoyment and or entertainment. 
 Most likely you will
  finish the main story in a few sitdowns but even then there is
  still plenty of things to do. If you have a choice snag a copy of
  the DS version because of 
 the slightly improved graphics, new 
  mini games, and exclusice land areas and missions. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: scared_link
Rating: 5.8
Date: Dec 12, 2005 3:01 pm PT
Review:  When I first brought the game and saw the cover, I thought, wow! I 
  The Game was brilliant on the ps2 so I expected the same from teh DS. Then I play it. First I think, 
 GREAT! Brilliant! But then, it becomes rubbish. You first start off as a street person trying to 
 make a living. You have to play mini games like: Clean the windows, Doctor etc. You then have to 
 talk to people and chat up the police man. At first its a laugh, its fun. But then goes really 
 boring. But you can talk to people and choose what to say from a list. And the people make funny 
 noises and weird expressions. The graphics are really crap compared to Rayman DS and Mario 64 x 
 DS. It look's like an early 90's game. When you first buy it, it does seem like fun but then it 
 becomes rubbish. The longer you play, the crappier it gets. Don't buy it. Only buy it if you're 
 a Mega Sims fan. Its better off if you rent it.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: the_13est_
Rating: 4.7
Date: Dec 1, 2005 3:33 am PT
Review:  The Urbz: Sims in the city has never been an explosion of fun in my eyes.
  This game has everything you sims fans want, apart from the free play mode where you can create 
 families and homes. But, nonetheless, this game will please this #1 selling PC game's fans.
  The funky characters you can create with illuminous pink hair and baggy jeans makes your sim seem 
 less dull, but the speech still continues asOooohhhh Fliploolah", which is very tiresome.
  I like the idea of becoming a 'popular' member of every destination available, but it really does 
 drag.
  Your having to repeat the same thing over and over, and the sims seem to have a constant running 
 bladder and a never ending stomach.
  Just when your getting good scores and in the middle of something important, your sim starts prancing 
 around like a fairy because he/she needs the toilet.
  Your face becomes glum also, it really does repeat.
  But i suppose this game won't please all, 
 i understand why this game appeals to some.
  But in my opinion, the only sims game should be the classic PC version.
  
  Now that, is phenomenal. 
 . . . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ETretts
Rating: 8.8
Date: Nov 28, 2005 11:28 am PT
Review:  I bought this before I had a DS to play it on my brother's and I liked it; so much that I wanted 
 to buy my own DS. But I decided not to, since there weren't enough good games out at the time. 
 Now there are plenty. I played through the whole game on this, but it never really ends. Once you 
 "beat" the game, you had more missions to become the leader of each social class or something along 
 those lines, which I got bored with. Overall, it was fun.
  
  Summary-
  
  Gameplay- Missions were fun, although when you "talked" to other people you just chose between 
 a few things to say, so it got a little boring. The jobs were also fun.
  
  Sound- I never really care about how a game sounds.
  
  Graphics- Not the best, but when you 
 were talking to someone they were better. Didn't really bother my though.
  
  Value- I think it was worth it, considering I played it through; any game that can keep my attention 
 that long is worth paying for.
  
  Reviewer's Tilt- Overall this game was good. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tryagainlater
Rating: 8.6
Date: Nov 20, 2005 3:55 am PT
Review:  the urbz is a game where you live a life. its similiar to the other sims games but it has a storyline. the 
 missions in this game are great and some of them can be exciting. you dont build your own house, you 
 just buy them and add your stuff you can get in the shop or online in computer cafes or when you 
 buy a computer. this is nearly the same as the gba version except when you're talking to someone 
 with the two screens, the extra island and making your own pets. there are two vehicles in this ,the 
 motorbike and the fan boat which are both pretty cool. there are things called beads which you can 
 buy in the game which make you faster or make you less tired and whatnot. all in all an excellent 
 game and highly recommended. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: philbox
Rating: 5.8
Date: Nov 19, 2005 12:36 pm PT
Review:  When i first got it i played for about 2 hours thrn i played it a litle more after that I got a 
 week or 3 out of it playing it when i got home from school and stuff but I never really played 
 it to much i play it every once in a while but if your a big sims fan u will probaly like it or 
 if u really licked the Urbz for other systems .......... ect ect ect i need more words so dont 
 mind this hi hih ihhih hihihi hhih hi hih hih hih hih h hih hihh h h hih ihihhh hih ihihihihhh 
 hihihihii ih hi hi hi hi hi hihi hi hi hih hih hi hi hi hi hi hih ih hi hi 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MrEdgeworth
Rating: 5.5
Date: Nov 18, 2005 12:51 pm PT
Review:  I was highly disappointed by this game, after playing The Sims on PC I was excited to hear about 
 a nintendo DS version of the game, I didn't really know about it until I bought the DS and it came 
 with it in a bundle along with the Metroid DS Demo. The game was way too storyline driven/linear 
 for my liking, the minigames were easy to beat and it looked pretty awful. 
  Of course, it was fun at first, but eventually it got dry and dull. It's pretty much the same dull 
 formula throughout, befriend this person, get this item etc etc. The game looks like the GBA incarnation, 
 which isn't always a bad thing (eg. Gyakuten Saiban/Phoenix Wright) but considering the only addition 
 to the DS version is a touch screen menu, which isn't even that useful I'd say it's a definite 
 disappointment.
  
  The Urbz on DS doesn't even compare to the acclaimed PC Series. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Jesusloves25
Rating: 9.6
Date: Nov 17, 2005 1:03 pm PT
Review:  Personally, I have never played the Sims. I thought it was some stupid game where you just control 
 people. However, due to a nudge from my friends, I decided to buy The Urbz: Sims in the City for 
 Nintendo DS. It was great! I personally loved the storyline and the responsibility of living life 
 to the fullest. There are all kinds of things you can buy, and you even get a pet! How cool is 
 that. Also, racing around on a hover board is pretty fun. The graphics don't bring out the full 
 capacity, but the simplicity definitely adds charm. Sure the basic needs thing kinda sucked, but 
 if you want to buy a sweet game, The Urbz is the way to go. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: skullmage550
Rating: 8.9
Date: Nov 12, 2005 8:43 pm PT
Review:  This is one of my favorite games. It is so addicting. I go to play for like 10-15 min and i end 
 up playing for like 1 hour because it is so fun. You should bey this game if you are a Sims fan 
 (like me) . It is not like the sims for computer you actually have missions to do and you don't 
 just raise a family. It gets hared close to the end but other then that is is really easy. If you 
 want a really challenging game this isn't the one for you because it is really easy but at the 
 end it gets harder. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jonnycope
Rating: 9.1
Date: Nov 8, 2005 12:19 pm PT
Review:  Luv da story line but h8 da dady bigbuks running for the law mission and why do you find out you 
 need trash wen youve sold them and theyve dissapeard. hate sound depressing but the great gameplay 
 and graphics make this game tremendos it starts with you getting a rep wich you need to gain all 
 the way through the game you need to eat sleep sit and shower and watch t. v or entertainment itz 
 sooooooooo great i soo love it 2 bitz id recomend it to anybody who loves true real life games 
 fg fg gf g fg gf gf gf gf g gf g g gf gf gfd gf gf gf gf g gf gf gg gf gf gf fd gf gf g gd gg gd 
 g ggg gf gg g gf gfdgf gf gf gd gd d gd gd g g 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ghstblck343
Rating: 9.4
Date: Nov 7, 2005 9:32 pm PT
Review:  this game beats all sims i couldnt stop i love the way you could "actually" control your sim o 
 and animals. i especially liked the idea of having more than one house or hangout (if your far 
 in the game you know what im talking about" the only thing that needs work are the mini games. 
 so little time to make so much money. o well eventually i got the hang of it and started raking 
 in the cash especially after i donated money to the old muesem i pay 999 sims bills for rent but 
 i get 1000 from the muesem so i dont work wich is awsome. o i like that you can change your sim 
 and have more than one girlfreind... roomates are awsome mine is that cool cat with the sax. basically 
 this game rules truly im not the biggest fan of nintendo but i love this game becouse of new game 
 play ... puzzles, mini games, pets, money, missions, and the ability to actually control the sim. 
 so awsome i give it a 9.5 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Gair-Bear
Rating: 8.3
Date: Nov 2, 2005 6:34 pm PT
Review:  ok so i have both the urbz and the sims 2 and i like the urbz so much better. I mean all you do 
 in the Sims is run a hotel and there is 4-5 places that you can go. In the urbz you can buy any 
 house you want and have more objetcs and you can go to jail and not have to pay 200 dollars right 
 away. In the sims 2 the beds don't even touch the wall they sit there in the middle of the room. And 
 once you buy a building in the sims 2 you have to wait 8 real life hours to see it! And moving 
 objetcs is hard compared to the urbz. So in my opion I think they should come out with another 
 urbz like game. If you like the touch screen go with the sims 2 but i hate to warn you its very 
 short. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: maxpayne10
Rating: 7.6
Date: Oct 23, 2005 3:54 pm PT
Review:  This is one of the crazier games on the DS. It is fun even if it isn't the most revolutionary game. 
 There is a lot to do, you beat levels by competeing in some really far out mission. There is a 
 cool roommate system so if you get friendly enough with one of the urbs they can move in with you, 
 they get in the way though and there is really no point to the roomate system. The game is worth 
 checking out if you are a fan of the sims, if not you won't get why it is so fun. This game is 
 fun and has a funny sense of humor because most of the urbz are really funny looking. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: klibbnisse
Rating: 7.2
Date: Oct 10, 2005 1:06 pm PT
Review:  URBZ was the very first game i bought to my DS. Well, i played it a while but got boored pretty 
 fast... now, a while since i played it last time, i really like it... well, its the same graphics 
 as it was at the gameboy...
  
  Well, to make it pretty short, there's a storyline... it isn't the best one, but it itn't bad either... 
 you play as a URB in a city called Miniapolis (i think, i'll check it up later) , you live illegal 
 in a big building where you work... but one day your boss tells you about Daddy BigBucks evil plans... 
 you really have to stop him... and thats how the game starts...
  
  The game is based at the same way as SIMS, but on the handheld consoles you only controls one person, 
 and you cant change... you control your character directly... another thing thats different from 
 SIMS to computer and TV-consoles is that you buys your furnish and stuff in stores... you cant 
 go to the pause-screen and buy a sofa (for an example) ...
  
  From the beginning aren't you allowed to go anywhere than Urbania... thats a booring time in the 
 game... becouse, Urbania is a REALLY small place... well, if you gets through that part of the 
 game it will be much, much funnier to play later on!
  
  When you talk to people about a mission (or anything that's important in the game) you can choose 
 really fun things to say... i cant think of any example, but its fun to read.
  
  Another thing i like in the games is that you go and play minigames when you're working and gets 
 paid after how good you play... thats good :D
  
  Last, but not least. The sound... the I'd heard better tunes in other games, but in one minigame 
 you play a fiddle... and i like thoose songs!
  
  Well, thats all from me for now. C ya! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mariokart64fan
Rating: 7.4
Date: Sep 7, 2005 1:29 am PT
Review:  the game play is more better than gc xbox or ps2 versions this game takes advantage of the touch 
 screen but it does have many problems 
  
  the graphics are to similar to the 32 bit ancester gba i think ea should make the next 1 with 64 
 bit graphics gba is the only version i d expect to be 32 bit2d aside from the graphics
  
  the sounds good but it does get repetitive probably worst of the launch games is the sound in this 
 game 
  
  the value is good , it takes a while to beat , i havent beat it im just reviewing how it looked 
 and played from what i played so far it has replay value it is challenging 
  
  bottom line if you already own the gba version do not waste your time ive seen the gba version 
 it is exactly the same minus touch screen but if not buy this version . it is not in no way the 
 same as gc, xbox ,ps2 versions it may bare the name but it plays like a totally different game 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sillygostly
Rating: 8.2
Date: Jun 28, 2006 6:18 pm PT
Review:  'The Urbz : Sims In The City' is an addictive launch title for the Nintendo DS which shant disappoint. 
 If you've ever heard of 'The Sims', enjoy RPGs, or enjoyed the previous handheld 'Sims' instalment, 
 you are bound to enjoy this. If you've already played the GBA version, you're not missing much, 
 although you'll get an extra few hours of addictive gameplay.
  
  In terms of gameplay, the game is pretty straightforward. You are assigned tasks by other Urbz 
 in the neighborhood which you may perform at your own pace, and to earn money, you can play some 
 fun mini-games, 8 of them which act as jobs, and get increasingly difficult as you progress, but 
 on the plus side, you earn even more money (There's 14 mini-games which give you money) .
  
  You also need to take care of your Urb's motives (Hunger, hygiene, bladder, comfort, fun, social, 
 energy and homesickness) . If not, your Urb will either starve, wet him/herself, collapse in the 
 middle of the street, or refuse to talk to anybody until these needs are met. These are relatively 
 easy to fulfill. And gameplay may get tedious at times, particularly when trying to manually boost 
 skills with an object. Overall, the gameplay experience is relatively easy and relaxing as long 
 as you bother to read what your fellow Urbz have to say.
  
  The dialogue in the Urbz wears a little thin, as you are randomly given a string of interactions 
 to communicate with another Urb, these may include : 'Talk about [Topic] ', 'Flirt', 'Kiss', 'Hug', 
 'Joke' etc. Each Urb will usually have the same reaction every time, so it's relatively easy to 
 maintain relationships within the game.
  
  The graphics, unfortunately, are not very impressive as the Urbz on DS is basically a port of the 
 GBA version with some bonus content. On the plus side, the graphics are sharper and clearer on 
 the DS, and the objects and characters in the game have a cute, cartoonish look.
  
  Although The Urbz on DS doesn't necessarily take advantage of the system's audio capabilities, 
 the music is very catchy (some lifted from previous Maxis games) , and the sound within the game 
 is good. Whenever you speak to another Urb, you'll hear a string of jibberish, which sounds great, 
 although repetitive.
  
  I think The Urbz is a great game for the DS, and I highly recommend it. However, if you're looking 
 for a game to boast the capabilities of your Nintendo DS, search elsewhere.
  
  Although you may not want to play after you've completed the game, it's still fun to play again 
 for a while for those who genuinely enjoy the game, and offers a good 20 hours of gameplay for 
 first time players.
  
  Stick around for 'The Sims 2' on the Gameboy Advance and Nintendo DS once they're released, as 
 they'll be sequels to 'The Urbz'. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Coldzboy
Rating: 5
Date: Aug 22, 2005 5:36 pm PT
Review:  Sims In The City was my first ds game, and it let me down, so here's the review.
  
  Gameplay:
  SITC's gameplay was a letdown, you start out on top of a building mopping, in "Minneapolis"
 
  and then it turns into a long and boring journey where you do errands for people who do jack for 
 you, and then there's a mission where you have to get your reputation up to 30, that means you 
 have to walk around, and talk to 20+ stereo-typical people until your reputation becomes thirty 
 with them, it sounds easy but it's not. Then you do it again, but this time, you have to get their 
 reputation up even higher, and that's when I picked it up and threw it out the window, literally.
 
  
  Graphic's:
  Why the heck did I buy this for the DS? When the GBA's graphics are very similar.. oh wait.. they're 
 the same, except for when you're talking to people, their faces look almost 3-dimensional....
 
  
  Sound:
  The sound was horrible, it was almost the same, they could've at least given us keyboard music. And 
 when you work out and stuff, it sounds like you're doing something, very, very wrong.
  
  Value:
  This game shouldn't even be in your game collection, let your dog eat it, because it 
 looks like this game's getting 5 pieces of dog waste, out of 10.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: tylercleary
Rating: 6.3
Date: Aug 21, 2005 5:47 am PT
Review:  I love the Sims for pc, and I love the story telling style for counsel, and even the occasional 
 gba versions. But I am a little upset about the DSs involvement in its first Sims game.
  
  The Sims handles perfectly on the DSs hardware. And looks a bit sharper than the GBA. But for 
 all the things that the Ds is suppose to do, this game misses on.
  
  The DSs bottom screen (though is used for inventory) is used for much of the fun, and possibly 
 more creative game play. Nice little customization things would have been nice for this handheld, 
 but it comes out like a GBA version on a big handheld. 
  
  The DSs also has a microphone built in. And so far not getting much use other than in XX XY. If 
 you are playing Urbz than you will pick up on some of the industry hints in the game. It would 
 have been nice if it had like a singer career game were you had to mach the pitch.
  
  All I am saying is if you cant wait to get home to play the Sims right then wait for another Sims 
 game for your DS; the Sims 2 will have a hell of a lot more features and will be more like a next 
 gen game, than GBA. 
  
  Bottom line, buy the GBA version if you must, there isnt a huge chunck of gameplay that you will 
 be missing. Plus its cheaper so you can buy two, 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Astrodude_5
Rating: 7.9
Date: Aug 14, 2005 3:10 am PT
Review:  Okay... Urbz is a very good game. The problem is that you have the 3D capable, touch screenin' DS 
 and the game is almost identical to the GBA version! The Urbz is still a very good game.
  
  Gameplay: 7/10
  The gameplay in the Urbz really has nothing to do with the city. (notice the 
 "E" rating) Urbz doesn't involve any drugs or gangsters or anything like that. (If you ask me, 
 it's more lik "Wannabe Ghetto in the Suburbs") Anyways, the DS version is much easier to use because 
 you don't have to leave the game to do your menu surfin', it's all convinently located on the touch 
 screen, which unlike the rest of the game, stands above it's GBA counterpart. Although the gameplay 
 does get a little repetitive and frustrating, (Taking care of your Sims mood, particularly) but 
 it still is pretty good.
  
  Graphics: 7/10
  Although the graphics aren't much different from the GBA version, they are still vibrant and colorful 
 in there 2D-ness.
  
  Sound: 8/10
  The little bleeps and bloops, voice clips, and catchy tunes make for a pretty good sounding game.
 
  
  Value: 8/10
  Urbz is long enough and challenging enough to keep you busy for a good while.
  
  Tilt: 9/10
 
  Urbz is a very good game that has it's problems, but overall is a very good game that should appeal 
 to fans of Bustin' Out for the Game Boy Advance. If you are desperate to get the Sims on your DS, 
 this will fit the bill. Otherwise, you should wait until the 3D Sims 2 hits the DS later this year. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Cheesebob57
Rating: 5.4
Date: Aug 4, 2005 11:06 pm PT
Review:  The Sims are back, but this time with an urban twist in The Urbz: Sims in the City. If you have 
 played the GBA version of the Sims: Bustin Out or the GBA version of The Urbz: Sims in the City, 
 you will already be acquainted with the style of gameplay. But, if you already have beaten or own 
 the GBA version of the Urbz, dont bother with this game, because it is basically a port with a 
 new area to explore. Also, if you played the GBA Bustin Out, and did not like it, dont bother 
 with this also because it is almost the same deal this time around.
  
  When deciding weather to buy this game, you should remember this: this is not a portable version 
 of the standard The Sims product. Although you still do take care of your sims basic needs (hunger, 
 hygiene, bladder, etc.) , it just doesnt feel the same in the Urbz for DS.
  
  In the Urbz, you have complete control over where your sim moves (also different than the console 
 or PC versions) . The top screen shows you where youre going, and on the bottom screen, there are 
 constantly available menus and maps which use the touch screen.
  
  The game is divided up into chapters in which there are certain goals to accomplish. Besides these 
 goals, the only other thing to make sure your character does is stay alive. These goals are sometimes 
 challenging, but mostly once you figure out what to do, its pretty straight forward. You can also 
 play 8 different touch screen oriented mini games where you try to get a good score for cash. You 
 use cash in the game to pay your bills, buy food, and other things of that sort. Sometimes money 
 will be required to complete a goal, too.
  
  The game starts with you taking a short quiz. Once you finish, you are assigned a social group. 
 From there you want to gain as many friends as you can throughout the game to better your reputation.
 
  
  The games graphics are crap. Seeing that this game is a GBA port, not a real update, this does 
 not surprise me. The game would look good on a GBA, but not on a DS, which is capable of way more 
 than what is offered. Very disappointing.
  
  The game controls average. It will take a while to get used to, but once you get it, you dont 
 have to really worry about it a lot ever again. During the first few times you play The Urbz, you 
 will find yourself running into a few more walls than youd like, but thats not a big issue.
 
  
  I have a mixed reaction to the music. The game doesnt sound great, just average, but some of those 
 stupid tunes just get stuck in my head.
  
  There really isnt much replay in The Urbz. I found myself just not playing it after I hit a few 
 hard objectives because I realized it would just not be worth it. The mini games are dull, talking 
 with others stinks because there is WAY too much repeated dialogue, and the whole package just 
 really isnt very entertaining. Whats that? Another objective? Yippie. I cant wait to go and 
 get pizza for that guy or get a good score on that mini game. Yee-haw. Basically, the game just 
 really stinks. I was somebody who enjoyed The Sims: Bustin Out for the GBA and played it start 
 to finish and then over again. The Urbz was a total let down for me. I just expected better from 
 Maxis or EA. It seems like there wasnt much work put into the game. I bet EA just said Hey, we 
 need a DS launch game. The Sims is popular. Lets just do a port of the Urbz.
  
  So, in all, do not bother with this game unless you just love slow paced piece of crap games. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Joseph881
Rating: 8.6
Date: Jun 20, 2005 2:03 pm PT
Review:  The Urbz for the DS is an excellent title, but unfortunately, too much like its GBA older brother. 
 In the beginning the game asks you a series of questions to determine what kind of Urb you are 
 then, you start the game out as a Window Washer, who well washes the Pigeon poo off of the building's 
 glass windows. Eventually after getting fired from your job you end up staying in the unfinished 
 apartment for a little bit, until you got caught peeping into your boss's quarters. You get sent 
 to jail and will have to make it there for a while with the Basketball Shootout type mini game. 
 Then you further progress into the game and do missions for the townspeople.
  
  The graphics are close to GBA, but a little bit smoother. Also it adds touch screen menus for your 
 items, missions, map, etc. which make it easier to use than in the GBA version. Also, the DS version 
 has the S Missions which sends you out to the mysterious place called Splicer Island where you 
 can create your own pet and let it compete. In order to make a pet, you will need to get an Amber 
 to extract the DNA of the animal from, you will have to cut the trace lines on the amber using 
 the touch screen during a set period of time. Then you will go to the DNA sequencing game which 
 has you adding and removing DNA for the animal.
  
  Overall this game is a nice piece for a launch game, I highly recommend you try it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: C0deZer0
Rating: 7.9
Date: Apr 14, 2005 6:27 pm PT
Review:  Back when The Sims came out, I was very anxious to play it on the PC. I had always been a big fan 
 of Sim City since the original PC version and so on. After playing it though, I had a hard time 
 enjoying it due to the constant attention the sims needed. When Bustin' Out came out on the GBA, 
 I was skeptical, but still played it. I came to find out that it was a different spin on The Sims, 
 and was an all round enjoyable experience. Well with the launch of The Urbz on other consoles, 
 it has been released on the GBA and Nintendo DS. You play as a Sim of your creation, and work as 
 a janitor in a place called Bigbuck's Tower. Starting out you are told that you are fired, and 
 so you have to find a place to crash and must do odd jobs to survive.
  
  First off, the game mechanics can be very annoying. As in other Sim games, your character has a 
 few needs, the needs are things like hunger, entertainment, sleep, how full your bladder is and 
 so on. This is where your patience is really tested, because you will find that the meters drop 
 quickly, and you can only do one or two objectives before your Sim must urinate, or eat. You have 
 different ways of satisfying your Sim's needs. You will eventually rent an apartment and you can 
 set it up the way you like. You have many different items you can buy and place them how you would 
 like, so you can turn your house into a needs center. Outside your apartment, you will meet up 
 with a variety of different characters, which you are always after to make friends with due to 
 the fact that you will get new objectives and progress the story that way. As you meet new people, 
 you will get unlockable jobs which are mini games that earn you money in the real game. These jobs 
 are an important part of the game, and as you play them, the difficulty of that game will rise, 
 but you will also receive a raise when you get on a harder difficulty. The only problem with the 
 mini games is once you are done with out, your Sim needs to run back to his apartment to use the 
 bathroom or eat, or sleep at 2pm. There is a way to make some of the needs meters to run a little 
 bit slower, and that is way of what is called xizzle beads. These beads are scattered all over 
 the game, and once you have 3 you can trade them in at a place called Club Xizzle for stats to 
 run slower, or perhaps an instant 10k in your pocket. 
  
  When I first started playing this game, I was completely annoyed by it, but something made me come 
 back to it. As I got further, I got my own apartment, and started to realize I had fun buying new 
 things for my apartment and seeing how it looked and how your Sim reacted to different items. One 
 aspect I really thought was funny and annoying at the same time was the fact you could get robbed. 
 The first time I got robbed, the robber stole my toilet! Not very realistic, but funny neither 
 the less. Different items that you can buy affect your Sim in different ways. Like a fridge will 
 keep your Sim fed, instead of having to run to the grill in the park to grill hamburgers, or going 
 to the club next door and stocking up on pizzas, or the smoothie machine, which will bring your 
 hunger meter back up and give you a nice energy boost so your Sim doesn't want to go back to sleep 
 4 hours after he gets out of bed. 
  
  The graphics are something to be desired. If you put the GBA version right next to the DS version, 
 they look identical. Some things are hard to see, but don't pose much of a problem. Simple things 
 like trash on a sidewalk is almost impossible to see until you walk over it and see the arrow pointing 
 at it. The sound is also sub par. When you get into a conversation, for every response from that 
 Sim, there will be a small snippet of "simlish" which gets very repetitive. Other than that, the 
 music is repetitive and dull. The graphics and sounds just feel like they weren't even trying to 
 tap the power of the DS.
  
  Well, with the 10 titles for the DS this would have to be the best. I'm not a big Mario fan, so 
 I rank this above Mario because there is more diversity in this game. I did rent this game, but 
 after playing it, I'm going to purchase it. It is defiantly a rent first game, because if you have 
 a short temper, or you are not patient, this is not the game for you. For everyone else who is 
 looking for a challenging game that takes a little time this is a must play. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: alleycat81
Rating: 7.7
Date: Mar 29, 2005 11:13 pm PT
Review:  I picked up The Urbz out of desperation for a new DS game. I needed something, anything, to hold 
 me over until more games were out. What I got was a surprisingly fun and highly addictive gaming 
 experience.
  
  Let me start off by saying if you're looking at this title hoping to take a copy of the PC Sims 
 experience on the road with you stop right now, because you WILL be disappointed. While The Urbz 
 carries over the basic interface with the "needs" meters and skill points, the similarities stop 
 there. For starters, your Urb will not hold just one job, but rather will have the opportunity 
 to go back and forth between many "jobs" in the form of fun and diverse mini-games. Also different 
 is the idea of reaching goals in order to progress through the game instead of the open-ended game 
 play of the PC games.
  
  The DS version offers some touch screen support, though there are very few instances where you 
 are forced to use the touch screen. All game and dialogue menus feature touch-screen support which 
 is pretty intuitive and makes things quicker, especially during dialogue sequences. Not a fan of 
 having to use the touch screen for menus? Not a problem, all menus also support the d-pad. The 
 only time you are really given no other choice than to use the touch pad is for some of the mini-games, 
 but in these instances the touchpad is usually the most natural control method anyway.
  
  The missions in the game really give it a sense of continuity as each "set" of completed missions 
 unlocks new areas and new twists to the storyline. Most of the mission goals are pretty straightforward, 
 however sometimes you might find yourself wondering what you need to do next as your objectives 
 aren't always clear. Most missions can be completed rather quickly, although others might take 
 a while longer because they require you to build up your "popularity" rating by talking to many 
 different characters.
  
  The mini-games add a really unique and fun element to the game, not to mention a great way to earn 
 some quick Simoleons. Typically you'll find a few new mini-games in each section of the city. Best 
 of all, the games vary widely yet all seem familiar in one way or another. For example, there is 
 a motorcycle racer reminiscent of Excitebike, a card game, and a puzzle game, not to mention games 
 with a more simple interface such as hitting the A button with precise timing, memorizing a key 
 sequence on the d-pad, or simply moving your character side to side in order to avoid flying tomatoes.
 
  
  Perhaps the best feature of the game is that the length is flexible. You can play through the game 
 and only complete the required missions and still have a very fulfilling experience, or if you 
 want more out of the game, there are plenty of options for extending your playing time. First of 
 all there are rep-group missions which fulfill certain goals based on each rep group (Streeties, 
 Arties, Richies, etc) . You can also strive to attain the highest level in all the mini-games. Each 
 game lists the requirements needed to unlock the next higher level, so you can spend time fulfilling 
 those requirements and leveling up your games. (Attaining the highest level on some of the games 
 is a requirement in the Rep Group missions as well.) Finally the last area of the game will allow 
 your Urb to purchase and care for a pet for even more added game play.
  
  Overall, The Urbz is a good game for anyone who just needs something new to play on DS or for people 
 who like the Sims games but wish they had a little bit more of a structured story line. The $40 
 price tag is a little high, so if you're not sure that you'll get enough enjoyment out of the game, 
 then you might want to think twice about your purchase. The graphics certainly will not set the 
 world on fire, and at times it almost looks like you're playing a GBA game rather than a DS game. 
 The sound is OK, but once again there's nothing too spectacular here and honestly when you're fully 
 immersed in the game you really won't even pay much attention to the sound. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: quiksilver022
Rating: 8.2
Date: Mar 26, 2005 6:15 am PT
Review:  Tough time deciding what game you should get? Well, first I'd have to recommend the obvious choice 
 (Super Mario 64) but I'd also highly recommend The Urbz: Sims in the City. While it isn't so much 
 focused on just living as the PC games, it's more of an RPG, and a good one at that! The graphics 
 are good... Not great, but just good. The 3D can look really great for a handheld when talking 
 to other Sims, but otherwise it's just GBA standard graphics. The second/touch screen is extremely 
 useful, as it is your PDA. Here you can keep track of your goals, purchase items from the catalog, 
 buy/sell items that you have, and much more. As if a good RPG weren't enough, it also has reasonably 
 enjoyable mini games. Highly recommended! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mooselover99
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 22, 2005 12:20 am PT
Review:  I made the mistake of getting my first Sim's game for my DS system. It's a mistake only because 
 it does not compare to the PS2 versions of the Sim's. The game play of The Urbz compared to other 
 Sim's is more fast paced and you make your Sim move to the object you need. I like it much better 
 than telling your Sim what to do. The minigames are unlocked to make money and you can make a bunch. 
 The Urbz: Sims in the City is very addicting. I literally play my game for hours. I had to put 
 it down so not to get disappointed about having it end. I recently purchased a PS2 system and got 
 The Sims. It is SO different from the DS/GBA version. The graphics are so much more cuter. The 
 Urbz is so much more fum. The Sims is boring compared to the hand held games. I will try the PS2 
 version of the The Urbz. I hope the come out with The Urbz 2,3,4,5,6,7... etc. I would pay any amount 
 of money to play any other Urbz!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: death919
Rating: 7.1
Date: Mar 14, 2005 6:37 pm PT
Review:  Gameplay: This Sims game is alot different from the other ones. In this game, you have direct control 
 over your sim, unlike the other games where you give your sim an order and he does it. This game 
 is divided up into many different quests, most of them consisting of finding a character or item. 
 This game requires alot of talking to characters, so if you're looking for a heavy action game, 
 chances are you'll be bored with this game. However, fans of other sims games will instantly be 
 addicted to this game. Near the start of the game, you'll probibly find it annoying how you have 
 to meet to your character's needs (hunger, bladder, etc...) so often, but as you progress through 
 the game, you will obtain items called "Xizzles". You can get these by either getting to a certain 
 relationship level with characters, or you can find them in various places. These Xizzles can be 
 spent on a variety of things, including upgrades which decrease the speed that your needs go down. 
 This means that your character's hunger, bladder, etc... will go down slower, allowing you to spend 
 less time worrying about them. The gameplay in this game will appeal to people who like games such 
 as Animal Crossing, Harvest Moon, but it won't appeal to people looking for a fast-paced game.
 
  
  Graphics: I found the graphics in this game to be horrid. I think that they are worse than the 
 GBA version's graphics. Your character appears really pixilated, like he's divided up into a bunch 
 of little squares. Sometimes you will not notice it at all, but other times it will be really annoying 
 and distracting. However, don't let this score steer you away from the game: overall, although 
 the graphics are bad, they don't take away from the overall enjoyment of the game.
  
  Sound: I thought that the music in this game was awesome! It rocks! This game has a cool urban 
 soundtrack which really adds to the mood of the urban environment that this game takes place in. 
 However, in certain parts in the game, you can hear static in the background. This static can sometimes 
 get annoying. However, I found that the static sound only appears in certain places, so it's not 
 always a problem.
  
  Value: As with most sims games, this game will keep you entertained for a long time. This is a 
 fairly long game. The length of the main story is about 15-20 hours long, however, exclusive to 
 the DS version of the game is an extra island that you can explore. In addition to the extra set 
 of missions that this island adds, it also has a new minigame, in which you chop up sushi, and 
 it has a minigame that allows you to create your own pet. The pet that you get depends on how well 
 you do in the minigame. So, the DS version has an extra 2-5 hours of extras packed into it. Plus, 
 after beating the main game, there are a series of extra missions that you can do, which adds an 
 additional couple of hours to the game. All in all, this is a game that'll keep you playing for 
 about 20-30 hours.
  
  Tilt: This was my first DS game, and I wasn't disappointed. It has fun, addictive gameplay, and 
 a good soundtrack. It's also quite long. The graphics are the only thing bad about the game, but 
 they really don't make it less fun, so they aren't really a problem. If you're looking for a good 
 DS game, I recommend this, because it's fun, and it'll keep you playing for a pretty long time. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: XtremeDSfan24
Rating: 8.7
Date: Feb 15, 2005 2:53 am PT
Review:  I was in love with the comp version of the Sims and the Sims Bustin' Out of GBA was my favorite, 
 the Urbz is a good sequel. Although this game is almost identical to the GBA of the Urbz this vesion 
 is very good if you've never played the GBA version. Now, don't get this game wrong, it's a blast. 
 I own it and beat it. It's just you need to be careful while playing or you might trigger a glitch. 
 Ex: Don't sell any trash until you have 100 pieces. That one really messed me up.
  Anyway a lot of the old characters are back along with several new one's. You start where Sims 
 Bustin' Out for GBA left off. You're a low life jainter that works his way up to the town hero 
 and stops the crazy business tycoon, Daddy Bigbucks from buying out the town. In this game you 
 do a little bit of everything. The varity is great. One second you're on a reality show, next you're 
 going through time, next you're fight vampires, next you're shooting hoops, next you're racing 
 motercycles, next you're directing plays, next you're going into space (you get my point.) I personally 
 loved this game but if you've never owned the GBA prequel (Sims Bustin Out) or if you already own 
 the Urbz for GBA then this game is not for you.
  Also they have Splicer Island in the DS version where you make, train, and even walk around with 
 pets. But not jsut ordanary pets, there's dragons, dinosaurs, chickens, jackalopes, unicorns ect. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: f1l200
Rating: 8.1
Date: Feb 9, 2005 2:22 am PT
Review:  Although it is the best ds game it is not saying very much. DS has not put out very many titles 
 and it looks like not very many other good ones are up for the lead. But any way the urbs has stolen 
 my attention. its like original sims for the computer but with a story and you cant build your 
 own house. But the comunication is a lot better because you accually get to choose what to say 
 from a list and it my lower or raise the sims affonection depending on there intrests. The urbs 
 is almost identical to the gba version besides the slicer island and the use of the bottom touch 
 sceen which makes the conversations with the other sims go by a bunch quicker if you dont enjoy 
 the conversations too well. You will find your self addicted to the urbs trying to get your rep 
 up and making your house as awsome as possible. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MBRiO
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 29, 2004 5:35 pm PT
Review:  So i'm now completely addicted to this game! I bought it two days ago, and haven't been able to 
 put it down. Needless to say my personal life is suffering from that! Well I've always favored 
 the handheld Sims over the console and PC versions, simply because I've felt it has always been 
 easier to meet my Sims needs on the handheld. This is the fact in the Urbz as well. I'm completely 
 enjoying pimpin' my pad out, though I'm finding it hard at the point I'm at to find good furniture. 
 I've been playing quite a long time, but most of that was maxin' out my body attribute to make 
 massive dough in basketball (I found it to be the easiest to make money in) . In all the time I've 
 played I've completed the first two sets of missions, and now own a Town House with two floors. 
 Saying all this you can see how addicted I am to it. 
  
  From that point, I find a few things annoying, as with any Sims game you have to be sure to meet 
 your needs. This becomes incredibly annoying, especially when you notice those motives keep falling 
 even when you are conversing with other Urbz. I've found it annoying trying to mac it with some 
 chick and then realizing, oh damn! I gotta pee!
  
  I like the addition of house upgrades which allow you to install burglar allarms that stop all 
 burglars (etc.) , and Urbz upgrades that add 1 point to each skill or slow your motives from decreasing 
 (etc.) .
  
  All in all I think the game is great, I like the graphical style, and I would certainly recommend 
 this game to anyone with a Nintendo DS. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
