-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: The World Ends With You
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/ds/rpg/wonderfulworld/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 Innovative combat system that can be easily tailored to suit.
 Compelling story with some genuinely heartfelt moments.
 Makes full use of all of the DS's technical capabilities.
 Top-notch presentation.
 Awesome soundtrack.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 Some pin powers get mixed up in the execution.
 Only one save game per cartridge.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Apr 22, 2008
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 9
Critic Score: 8.8, 58 Review (s)
User Score: 9.2, 2,756 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Square Enix
Developer: Jupiter Corp
Genre: Action Role-Playing
Date: Apr 21, 2008
ESRB: Teen

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
The World Ends With You is a compelling and immaculately presented RPG from start to finish, and 
 is a great way for Square Enix to kick off a new franchise. 

  It's pleasing to see that Square Enix -- despite having the Final Fantasy, Dragon Quest, and Kingdom 
 Hearts megafranchises in its lineup -- is still willing to go boldly into new frontiers with the 
 release of original games like The World Ends With You. This role-playing game eschews the company's 
 tried-and-true swords-and-sorcery settings and instead transports the action to modern-day Tokyo. 
 Although there's nary a chocobo or keyblade to be found here, The World Ends With You still incorporates 
 some of the company's best-known trademarks and wraps plenty of innovative new gameplay around 
 them, particularly an initially mind-bending dual-screen combat system. The result is a game that 
 manages to feel familiar and yet strikingly new at the same time, and one that deserves to be ranked 
 alongside Square Enix's best works.  

           Yes, fighting on two screens can be a little confusing at first, but you'll get used to 
 it.      

  At first glance, the game seems little more than a pastiche of all the things that have made the 
 famed Japanese developer's RPGs massive successes in the past. Angsty teen hero with an absurdly 
 angular haircut? Check. Complex, team-based combat system? You betcha. Detailed customization options 
 with weapons and armor that border on the anal retentive? Fer sure. But The World Ends With You 
 merely uses these Square Enix conventions as a launching pad for a unique experience that is both 
 impressive in its use of the Nintendo DS's capabilities and compelling in its storytelling.  

 
  The most apparent difference from previous Square games is location. The World Ends With You is 
 set not in an imaginary kingdom, but entirely within Tokyo's fashion and shopping hub, Shibuya. 
 Several real-world landmarks from Shibuya are re-created within the game, such as the train station, 
 Shibuya Crossing, Hachiko's statue, Dogenzaka, and more. However, this shift to a modern setting 
 isn't mere window dressing, given that it greatly complements the game's overall design. Developer 
 Jupiter Corp has stuck to a character look similar to that found in the Kingdom Hearts series, 
 and though the far-out fashion seemed somewhat out of place within that game universe, here it 
 seems entirely appropriate to the fast-paced and fashion-conscious world of trendy Tokyo.  

  The story itself is a little  The Matrix , a little  Battle Royale . The game follows main character 
 Neku Sakabara as he's forced to play The Reapers' Game, a sinister competition in which the (mostly) 
 evil Reapers assign players like Neku a task every day for seven days. Fail to complete the task 
 within the set time limit and the player is completely erased from existence. Strangely, none of 
 the other inhabitants of busy Shibuya can see Neku or the other players, although a mysterious 
 pin that Neku finds on his person when he first wakes up in Shibuya lets him read people's minds. 
 What's even more disconcerting are the large groups of strange creatures now roaming the streets. 
 Although normal people can't see these creatures -- called the Noise -- they can see Neku, and they're 
 out for blood. Along the way, Neku is forced to make pacts with other characters because forming 
 these bonds and fighting in pairs is the only way to deal damage to the Noise.  

  There are some genuine twists in this game's intriguing story, and there is also plenty of heartfelt 
 emotion from its teenage protagonists, which makes for some truly touching moments. The themes 
 explored here -- finding your identity, overcoming insecurity, teen angst, coping with guilt, the 
 weight of obligation -- are nothing new for a Square Enix game, but they seem somewhat more resonant 
 and identifiable because they're coming from characters who use mobile phones, eat fast food, and 
 who do other things that ground them in the same world we live in.  

  Traversing the world of Shibuya is done through the stylus and touch screen, but battles are where 
 it gets more complex. The game's setting might be somewhat of a departure for a Square Enix game, 
 but the combat is a completely new take that uses both of the DS's screens at the same time. Neku 
 and his partner share the same health bar, while the Noise they're fighting appear on both screens 
 at once (although not necessarily in the same location) . On the bottom screen is Neku, whom you 
 control via different directional swipes with the stylus on the touch screen. Neku uses objects 
 called psych pins to attack, and each type of pin requires a specific move with the stylus to unleash 
 its power. These moves can include rapidly tapping the screen, performing slashes across enemies, 
 quickly scratching empty space, drawing circles with the stylus, and more. There are also some 
 pins that require you to yell into the DS's microphone.  

  These pins feature such varied powers as the ability to call a meteor strike, erupt a mini volcano, 
 create lines of flames, throw cars and other objects around, shoot out electrical fields, and much 
 more. Though there are supposed to be 300 different pins to be found in The World Ends With You, 
 that doesn't mean there are 300 different types of powers to be unleashed in the game. Considering 
 that many powers are replicated among different brands in the game (more on this later) you can 
 definitely expect to see the same powers again and again. And just like Neku, psych pins can gain 
 experience in battles, going up in levels the more times they're used.  

  The DS's top screen is where Neku's current partner will battle the Noise. The partner's actions 
 are controlled via the D pad, with different combinations of directional presses resulting in different 
 attacks or defensive maneuvers. Both Neku and his partner can also unleash powerful combos, which 
 are earned by following a specific pattern of attacks on the top screen and released via tapping 
 the bottom screen.  

           Some real life Shibuya landmarks can be found in the game.      

  As you might guess, 
 controlling both characters at the same time is confusing. Thankfully, the World Ends With You 
 rewards you not for trying to control the action on both screens simultaneously, but for rapidly 
 switching control from one to the other in a smooth way. At the beginning of each fight, Neku will 
 be bathed in a green light. As soon as he makes a successful attack, this green light will move 
 to his partner in the top screen, which will then move back to Neku after the partner makes an 
 attack. Successfully passing this green puck back and forth between the two results in increasing 
 damage bonuses done to enemies, which of course means that you'll need to concentrate on whoever 
 has the puck to keep the combo going.     

  Sound any less hectic? Even with the puck-passing mechanic, fights in The World Ends With You can 
 still be quite chaotic, with eight or more attacking you on both screens at the same time. But 
 despite this complexity, it's a system that gets easier to use with practice. In fact, one of the 
 greatest joys we found in the game was the dawning realization that, after a few hours, we wanted 
 the green puck to move faster to let us chain attacks more quickly. Its an awesome feeling to 
 have what seems so alien at the start become second nature. The only downside to what is otherwise 
 a compelling combat system is that, though many of the pins available to Neku feature different 
 abilities, the movements required to unleash them are in many cases too similar to provide fine 
 control over what pin to use at a certain time. With Neku eventually able to carry six pins into 
 battle, that means being more strategic about which pins to carry to create the most damage. This 
 is because having two pins with the same stylus move requires you to completely use up the charge 
 of one before being able to use the power of the next.  

           Character models are the requisite level of Square Enix kooky.      

  Although The 
 World Ends With You's unique combat system is sure to initially confuse and bewilder many players, 
 the game does allow for a gentler learning curve thanks to combat options that can be tweaked on 
 the fly. These include varying the speed with which the game's AI will automatically take control 
 of your partner if you get too distracted with the bottom screen, and even changing the game's 
 difficulty between fights. The World Ends With You also lets you choose your battles, with no random 
 fights occurring as Neku traverses through Shibuya. Instead, Neku can pick his own fights; the 
 same pin that lets him read people's minds also alerts him to the presence of any Noise in the 
 area.  

  On the flip side, the game also lets you kick things up a notch at any time by lowering the level 
 of your characters or even chaining several fights together. Players who choose to fight at a lower 
 level than their character's current maximum (say, fighting as a level 25 when your character is 
 actually level 30) obviously have to suffer the requisite drops in attack, defense, and health 
 stats, but the compensation is that defeated Noise will tend to drop more lucrative items. Chaining 
 fights together -- that is, taking on consecutive groups of Noise on the same health bar -- also boosts 
 the quality and frequency of dropped items. This element of adjustable risk is a nice addition 
 to the game, giving you the option to play it safe or live on the edge in the hope for a big payoff, 
 or even switch between the two from encounter to encounter. You might find yourself consistently 
 fighting five levels or so below your maximum to keep the new pins and money rolling in, money 
 you can then spend on hundreds of items from the stores in The World Ends With You's virtual Shibuya. 

  Just like in the real world, brands are everything in this game. Specific brands exist for each 
 item, such as clothing (the game's version of armor) and pins, and some brands are more fashionable 
 than others. Wearing unfashionable clothes or pins results in some pretty hefty penalties; conversely, 
 wearing the right items can confer impressive bonuses. For example, if you fight with an unfashionable 
 pin, your attack damage is halved. If you fight with something that's hot, your attack is doubled. 
 Each area in the gameworld's Shibuya has its own hot list that you'll need to refer to if you're 
 to get the most out of battles. Being a fashionable young Shibuyan yourself, you can affect the 
 trend in a given area with the clothing and pins you wear into battle, so having an initially unfashionable 
 ensemble won't handicap you indefinitely.  

  The World Ends With You packs a decent single-player campaign length of roughly 12 hours for the 
 first run-through, but the game does give you a great reason to play the campaign a second time. 
 After you first complete the game, each chapter will be available to play in any order (and with 
 any of your previous partners) , with each of the chapters now having a set list of requirements 
 that you'll need to complete to unlock special information dossiers that unveil more about the 
 game's backstory. This is a great way to find out more about the Reapers' Game, particularly because 
 The World Ends With You's initial ending is vague enough that most players will want to know exactly 
 what happened to all of the game's main characters. Multiplayer isn't forgotten, either. The World 
 Ends With You features a minigame called Tin Pin Slammer that can be played wirelessly with up 
 to four players.  

  Tin Pin Slammer isn't that compelling a minigame, but there are still plenty of reasons to use 
 wireless with The World Ends With You. Turning on the game's Mingle mode will use the DS's built-in 
 wireless to search for other DSs, with each device found resulting in different bonuses. For example, 
 finding another DS with wireless enabled and with a copy of The World Ends With You will let you 
 trade cards and other items. Likewise, finding a DS with wireless enabled with any other game will 
 net experience points for your psych pins. You even gain experience for your pins every time you 
 turn your DS off: the longer you leave it off, the more experience gained. You'll never maximize 
 your pin levels by not playing the game, but it's still a nice reward for taking a break once in 
 a while.  

           The World Ends With You looks absolutely top-notch.      

  The presentation of The World Ends With You impresses right from the game's beginning. Graphically, 
 the game just sparkles, and its stylized version of Shibuya pops with color and detail. Large, 
 colorful character models with speech and thought bubbles are used for the game's many cutscenes, 
 and the battles sport some pretty effects. There are also a wide variety of strange-looking Noise 
 that Neku and crew will run across, ranging from insane-looking kangaroos and penguins to gigantic 
 bats. Sound is another area in which this game excels, with enough snippets of dialogue packed 
 in to put other DS games to shame. (One of your partners yelling "There's a party in my mouth" 
 when you give him a piece of food stands out.) Of particular note is the game's soundtrack, which 
 is made up of an eclectic mix of J-Pop, hip-hop, and rock songs that get into your head and refuse 
 to leave. Fitting such a large mix of music on a DS cartridge is impressive enough, but having 
 decent songs in that mix is a luxury few games have.  

  Flawless presentation, gameplay depth, an engaging story, and innovation all add up to make The 
 World Ends With You a worthy addition to the already-impressive pantheon of Square Enix works. 
 There's very little to complain about in this package, which makes The World Ends With You a must-have 
 for any DS owner needing an RPG fix.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (248 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: LOSTLEAD3R
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 10, 2009 3:01 pm PT
Review:  I was a bit scared to go into the game at first, after all this is Square we are talking about, 
 teen angst everywhere and that's with out teenagers (look at cloud) , so you can imagine what they 
 do with actually teenagers. Teenagers -_-
  
  Well, I went in and gave it a go. Started a new game and sure enough teen angst!!! UGH it was horrible, 
 it was awful, it was terrible, and it was kind of fitting toward the character. In fact the game 
 actually played out quite nicely with low to mild teen angst, it wasn't as bad as I thought. In 
 fact you can barely notice it after the first few chapters. And these kids actually did have problems 
 and weren't pretending. They developed the characters quite nicely and it certainly was a joyous 
 story, with an awesome message. When you get into this game you feel for the characters, their 
 notable.
  
  The plot is a simple game of death, fight to survive and all that stuff. I won't talk about the 
 story too much, because well, Oh snap moments happen from like chapter 2. (Wait so that guy, no 
 wait so he was wha??) Basic layout: a boy name Neku becomes apart of a game which you most fight 
 Noise (the enemies of the game) and do missions in order to have a chance to survive from being 
 erased from the Reaper's of the game, and be able to get a second chance of life. Neku is given 
 Pin's to help fight against the noise, these pins use the psyches of the mind and create amazing 
 things, from fire to laser swords. The battle system is awesome, repetitive yet unique. I know, 
 I know what the heck does that mean? Well pretty much the key to the battles uniqueness are these 
 pins, and well they pretty much are the game play all in all, although all the battles happen in 
 the same basic way. Over all I had a epic journey when I went through with this game; I mean I 
 stood up all night just to beat the game once I got caught up in it. And I hardly do that nowadays. 
 There are some interesting puzzles and pins along the way. And so, so many pins
  
  Really the only thing I don't like about this game is how much reading you have to do to just play 
 it! Seriously it felt like rocket science. I think some of it actually was rocket science
  But really this game just pulls out all the stops a game should, and some that well games never 
 have. (Like cross-dressing) As well although it's a RPG, it never felt like the boring RPG combat 
 system some of you came to know and love. All battles happen in real time, status and such are 
 created by a level up system that you sometimes are unaware of, and clothes you wear. But of course 
 that's not a bad thing at all. Its not noticeable because your having to much fun to notice. I 
 have to say I have never been the biggest fan of reading, and learning how to play the game, was 
 just bother some, not that it's not rewarding. I mean it's like a couple of pages of just explaining 
 how to move this or that, sometimes it's just how to actually move, just really boring. Like, folding 
 clothes boring. Gets on my nerves, it's not like they could put it somewhere else either because 
 then no one would read it (who reads instructions these days?) Sigh its just one hang up that is 
 only trouble some at the start. Patience is a virtue, and come on you just read all the way up 
 to here. That's got to mean something right? 
  So if you can tolerate a review this long you can tolerate the instructions on how to play The 
 World Ends With You.
  
  
  
  +Game Play: I have said this before, I will say it again, this game is repetitive yet unique. The 
 way this is achieved is by the Pins you wear. Each Pin gives you a different power or does something. 
 So although you may battle the same way against the noise (the enemies of the game for the most 
 part) each time the experience will always be different because of the pins you wear and use. Flair 
 that's fun to wear. The pins are always a bit different in how you use it too, also utilizing the 
 DS's unique features, one pin will make you shout into the Microphone to cause damage to your enemies. 
 Another one you drag the stylus along the touch screen to burn enemies! FIREFIRE!!! As for another 
 pin's power, powers up one of your other pin (s) in combat. And again another pin urges you to tap 
 your enemy to give them a body full of electric shock! With one pin you can hack'em and slash them! 
 Hack and Slash Hack and Slash. AND FOLKS THAT"S NOT ALL! If you order now you can get up to a whopping 
 260+ pins! That's well over 9000!!! Ways to battle the noise!
  
  The World Ends With You overall has amazing game play and battle system by the power of pin's despise 
 it having a repetitive battling style. Be creative and battle the noise with different types of 
 pins that set off some interesting abilities and are shiny too. Pretty colors. 
  
  From Pyrokensis to physical combat this game as got tons of ways to battle; even though it might 
 be repetitive it stays fresh by the pins you use in combat. Not to mention that you may control 
 your partner in the game, using the top screen and d-stick, while Neku is on the bottom screen. 
 It may seem complicated and confusing at first but it gets easier with time. Plus fusion bonuses 
 are awesome.
  
  As well if it ever gets to easy or hard for you, you can always change the difficult from one of 
 four types. Easy, Normal, Hard, and Ultimate. It's great; it's some what simple and addictive. 
 Like drugs.
  
  
  +MusAc: The Music is performed with beats and rhymes in a street type hip hop style. Ya I don't 
 really get what I said either. The music fits into the games street style that it has going for 
 it and overall sets the tone and style of the game even more. The music, if it does anything it 
 makes this game better. It fills every and any scene with more power then with out music. 
  I would suggest to make it come out as loud as possible in all areas where you play it, screw the 
 neighbors, the people on the bus and that one kid that says he's going to beat you up if you don't 
 stop that Japanese hip hop. He's bluffing besides you can take him. Point is, the music is outstanding 
 in the way it shows itself and the way it is in tune with the scenes and battles of the game. This 
 is one game where the music button should be turned up! Although you do have to have some form 
 of tolerance for the Japanese music scene to enjoy it. But like Dave Chappelle once said "TURN 
 MY HEAD PHONES UP". And you should too, your head phones I mean.
  Why do you think that guy always wearing headphones for? 
  
  +Presentation: Well the way they 
 present the scenes and events look like they come straight out of a comic book. With panels for 
 bigger scenes, and bubble's with text in the lesser scenes it definitely has a comic/ manga vibe 
 going for it. Those that love comics and manga probably will love this more then those that don't, 
 well of course duh! Either way the scenarios are pulled off well and are great and down right epic 
 at times. Twists and turns in every scene. It simply just makes the story better by the presentation. 
 As well the dialogue and text are often funny at times, its interesting to see all the characters 
 interact with each other as each one is so different from one another. The scenes are played out 
 well with hand motions and everything in between so at least you're not watching boring stand still 
 images. Im look at all you rest of the RPG franchise *shakes fist* The voice acting is good as 
 well; they all fit their respective character's well enough. It's all around good acting, no out 
 of place voices, or overacting in there. All the Actors did a amazing job at fitting what their 
 character was/is and sometimes a bit too well if you ask me. Joshua's laughs haunt me to this day
 
  
  In short, The World Ends With You knows how to present itself, its always trying to entertain you 
 in some way, shape, and/or form. It uses humor, mannerisms, music, personality, and anything in 
 between to bring you closer to the experience's in the game and wraps it all with a comic vibe 
 wrapped with a well plotted and interesting story. 
  
  
  
  
  THE WORLD ENDS WITH YOU, cheese title, cheese line. It's an Epic game. Everything about it is top 
 notch. The combat system is fun and well thought out, with complicated strategies and simple tactics. 
 Hack and slash Hack and slash!
  
  The World Ends With You is a RPG but it only kept the good of what RPG's are, and left the boring 
 stuff out. As the action is often fast pace and easy to put down and pick back up again. The Presentation 
 is terrific, with outstanding rhythm and beat music and over the top storytelling with humor, drama, 
 and character development. The World Ends With you delivers it all to make your experiences the 
 best it can be. And I didn't even tell you about the story. It's what makes this game great, but 
 if you want to find out about the story, you should go play it, because there is no experience 
 like it. Sorry kiddies no spoilers tonight
  
  This is just one of those games where the story just blows your mind, picks up the scraps and tears 
 them to pieces. It's not disappointing at all, go play it and see for yourself. Plus it leaves 
 you with a well thought out message to take home with. Video games don't teach you anything my 
 butt, after all I learned to kill aliens, where you going to learn that?
  
  So buy this game, it's an epic one, one that no DS owner should miss out on, although it's a RPG 
 don't make that scare you because it only keeps the good elements and takes the bad away. Sure 
 your going to have to take sometime to learn how to play but it's worth it for this game.
  
  
  (reviewed in 2008) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ThatGameSpotGuy
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 7, 2009 12:25 am PT
Review:  
  To start off this review I just want to point out that I chose the classification of "Mixed reactions" 
 as, in my opinion, "The World Ends With You" is a combination of an "instant classic", a "masterpiece" 
 and many other factors!
  
  This is a basic overview of "The World Ends With You";
  
  The actual setting of "The World Ends With You" takes place in a fictional version of the Shibuya, 
 which is a shopping district in Tokyo, Japan. While everyday life goes on in the so-called "Real-Ground", 
 or "RG", the chosen dead are brought to a alternate plane of existence called the "Under-Ground", 
 or "UG". The "UG" is also the venue for the Reapers' Game.
  
  By offering their most treasured possession to enter the "Game", the dead, which are the "Players", 
 gain the chance to contest for what is considered a most prestigious prize, which is to be revived 
 back to life or to transcend to a higher form of spiritual existence. Most of those who choose 
 to transcend become "Reapers", these are the opponents of Players in future Games.
  
  Lasting a week, each Game is a contest to judge the worth of humanity. Players set out to accomplish 
 objectives under the rules created by the "Composer", who is "pragmatically" described as a "god-like" 
 entity who maintains Shibuya. Another Reaper, the "Conductor", tasks other Reapers to obstruct 
 the Players' efforts. Failure to complete a mission will disperse the mind and spirit of the Player 
 or Reaper, thus erasing his or her existence.
  
  A Player in the UG is invisible to the living in the RG, though one can sometimes read and influence 
 their thoughts. The UG is frequented by creatures called "Noise", which are attracted by the negative 
 feelings of the living. To progress in the Reapers' Game, Players are often required to defeat 
 Noise by killing or "erasing" them.
  
  However, each Noise exists in two "zones" simultaneously, and can only be defeated by two Players 
 fighting the Noise from separate zones; Players are therefore required to form a pact with another 
 Player to survive the Noise.
  
  Players receive assignments via text messages sent to their cell phones, and their right hands 
 are imprinted with a countdown indicating the time left in the mission.
  
  After a day's mission is complete, the remaining Players find themselves at the start of the next 
 day's mission, appearing as if they have skipped ahead in time
  
  The "game-play" of "The World Ends With You" is really quite fascinating! As "The World Ends with 
 You" is an action "RPG", or a "role-playing game", arranged into three chapters following the three 
 weeks that Neku, who is the main character of the game, is involved in the Reaper's Game, with 
 each chapter further divided by each day of the week. The player controls Neku and his partner 
 as they explore the fictionalized Shibuya to complete each day's mission. Although most missions 
 require completion within a certain time for Neku and his partner, this timer is not correlated 
 to the passage of time for the player.
  
  Shibuya is divided into several districts, some of which may be inaccessible on certain days or 
 blocked by a wall that can only be removed by satisfying the request of a nearby Reaper, such as 
 erasing Noise symbols, putting on a certain brand of clothing, Yes! Certain brands of clothing 
 can affect the Players' fate of where to go in the fictionalized Shibuya, or bringing an item. 
 Neku can scan the area by activating a special pin, and I'll describe more about "Pins" further 
 in the review. This scan reveals the thoughts of the non-player characters in the Real-Ground and 
 memes, which may help to progress the plot.
  
  The scan also reveals random Noise symbols that drift about the area, or in some cases, float around 
 a specific character. The player initiates a battle by touching Noise symbols; each symbol constitutes 
 one round of battle. Selecting more than one Noise symbol at a time results in a multi-round battle 
 that gradually increases in difficulty with each round, but conversely leads to greater rewards 
 upon success. Altering the difficulty of the Noise and the amount of health for Neku and his partner 
 also alter the benefits conferred.
  
  Each district has fashion trends that affect gameplay. By wearing pins or clothing from the more 
 popular brands in that district, items' effects will be improved; wearing the least fashionable 
 items will do the opposite, and items from brands in between are not affected. However, the player 
 can increase a brand's popularity in one district by repeatedly fighting battles in that district 
 while wearing items of that brand.
  
  The player can enter shops to buy new pins, clothes, and food items that are gradually consumed 
 during battles to improve the characters' basic attributes.
  
  Here's something, after completing the game, the player can return to any day in the story and 
 play those events again, keeping the characters' current statistics and inventory. "Secret Reports", 
 written segments that reveal background elements of the story, can be unlocked through this mode 
 by completing specific missions during each day.
  
  As I said, I'd explain particular "pins" and well here's the description;
  
  "The World Ends 
 with You" features "psych pins", decorative pins that possess powers that only Neku can activate 
 while wearing them. Psych pins are used for combat. Most pins, particularly those used in combat, 
 can become more powerful as the player accumulates "Pin Points", aso abbreeviated as "PP", which 
 can also lead to evolution of the pins into more potent versions. Pin Points are commonly earned 
 through battle, but can also be earned through a period of inactivity with the game, or by interacting 
 with other DS players or random wireless sources. Each of these methods influences the growth of 
 pins within the game
  
  Another great factor in "The World Ends With You" is the game's combat system! The game's combat 
 system is called the "Stride-Cross-Battle-System". The combat takes place across both screens of 
 the Nintendo DS, with Neku on battling on the touch-screen and his partner, however it may be, 
 on the top screen of the Nintenso DS, representing the different "zones" of the same local area; 
 the two characters battle the same enemies that exist in both "zones" simultaneously. Neku and 
 his partner are synchronized during battle; they share the same health bar so that even if one 
 character does not take any damage, the pair can fail in battle if the other takes too much.
  
  A green "light puck" will pass between the characters during battle; when the character has 
 this puck, the damage they inflict is increased. The movement of the light puck is determined by 
 the "sync ratio" between Neku and his partner; the puck stays longer with the character with higher 
 ratios. The player can equip Neku and his partner with clothing that can alter the light puck's 
 speed.
  
  The player controls Neku by performing touch-screen actions based on the currently equipped pins. 
 These actions may include slashing across an enemy, tapping the screen rapidly to fire bullets, 
 or holding down on an enemy to inflict damage. Other pins need to be touched to activate them, 
 such as for health restoration.
  
  Each pin has a limited number of uses before it must recharge for a certain time. Other pins may 
 only be used a fixed number of times during a series of battles, and do not recharge until the 
 battle sequence is over. Neku can only be equipped with a maximum of two pins at the game's start; 
 this can eventually be upgraded to a maximum of six.
  
  Neku's partner on the top-screen can be controlled by the player or the game itself. Each of Neku's 
 partners has a card game-based mechanic; for example, Shiki's card game requires the player to 
 match face-down Zener cards.
  
  The partner can make a basic attack after the player navigates through a pathway of arrows to select 
 one of several shown cards using the directional pad or face buttons. By navigating to a card that 
 fits within the card game rules, the player earns a star. Once enough stars are collected, the 
 player can launch a powerful "Fusion" attack using both Neku and his partner through the "Harmonizer 
 Pin" that appears on the upper right of the touch-screen, that is based on the assumption that 
 you haven't rearranged where it's to be displayed! The player can also help the partner character 
 dodge attacks
  
  Anyway! The overall game of "The World Ends With You" is really a beautifully poetic masterpiece! 
 And I was happy to play it! And bring the 'GS', or GameSpot, community this EXTENSIVE review!
 
  
  - ThatGameSpotGuy
  
  :D 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Blackhedgehog13
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 4, 2009 9:46 am PT
Review:  this game it got great battle got the best music and great storyline once your hooked you might 
 never come unhooked muhahahahahahaha!!!!!!! but you will wana keep play till you know the end of 
 twewy pins items and food like............ curry! (not really) but like i say once you are hooked 
 you will never come unhooked so try it before you judge it k? so lets get back to the game you 
 probly seen it you probly saw a commercial you maybe played it once you probly saw it at your friends 
 house so if you didi all of thoes things what do you think it means PLAY TWEWY!!! its like a message 
 telling you to PLAY TWEWY!!! yeah it is like a message from god when everything shows it
  play play play  Blackhedgehog13 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DianaHewie
Rating: 9.5
Date: Apr 2, 2009 11:13 pm PT
Review:  There's really no denying that most DS games to-date are awful. DS Yoga? Yeah, it's really a game. 
 Then we have The World Ends With You (a game developed by Square Enix) that truly doesn't get the 
 credit it deserves.
  
  You begin the game as Neku, who wakes up lying in the middle of the street in Shibuya. Nobody seems 
 to see him. He has no memory of how or why he's lying there. The only thing he has is a pin and 
 a message. Teaming up with a partner, he must survive one week in what's called the Reaper's Game. 
 Being given a new mission each day, if they fail, they are erased.
  
  Characters- 10/10
  I absolutely love these characters, every single one. No matter how seemingly flat they are, I 
 guarantee they will be "fleshed out" later on. The depth and personality put into all of them is 
 fabulous. Of course, there are some you'll love and others you'd like to rip apart. But isn't that 
 a sign of good development? I think so. You'll truly come to care about the characters and care 
 about what they're going through. I can almost promise you.
  
  Voice Acting- 9.5/10
  While there isn't a whole lot of voice acting (minus single line sayings in battles or cutscenes) , 
 most of it is pretty good. There are a few lines from certain characters that just don't sound 
 very good (as in the voice actor didn't put enough feeling into it) but most of it is good.
  
  Music- 10/10
  I loved pretty much every track in this game. I do remember a couple moments 
 where the music didn't seem to fit the moment but 99% of the time, the music works wonderfully 
 with the scenes to create the emotion it's supposed to.
  
  Plot- 9.4/10
  The Reaper's Game... something new, something original. Of course, I'm not going to talk about the 
 plot twists but I thought they really added to the story. Of course, there were a few plot holes 
 left after the final story had ended but I'll talk about that further down.
  
  Graphics- 10/10
  Well... it's a DS game. They have seem to have wonderfully realistic gameplay 
 graphics. As for the cutscenes, the best I can describe it is anime, which works very well.
  
  Gameplay- 10/10
  Extremely fun. You are required to use "pins," which, when equipped, give 
 you certain abilities. There are numerous ones to collect and use, along with leveling them up 
 to make them stronger. The fighting with the pins is fun as well. There is a leveling system but 
 luckily, I found the battles so fun, that level grinding wasn't an issue to me. You can also adjust 
 the difficulty any time throughout the game and you can also adjust how much health you have. The 
 less health, the more and better items that enemies will drop. Also, the save system is a convenient 
 "save anywhere you are" type of system. 
  
  Replayability- 8/10
  This is where it falls a bit short, in my opinion. As I said, there are plot holes after you finish 
 it. These plot holes can be filled by collecting the "Secret Reports." What do you have to do? 
 Basically, replay the game and complete certain special tasks to unlock them. This is all fine 
 and dandy but I don't really appreciate a game FORCING me to play through a game again just to 
 understand the plot from the first time around. It's a very fun game, yes, so many are probably 
 not bothered by it. There is also a bonus secret ending to unlock after collecting all of the Reports. 
 Of course, these Secret Reports (as I'm sure the Secret Ending is, as well) are available for reading 
 online if you so choose.
  
  Overall? An excellent (addicting) game. If you own a DS and like RPGs, do not pass this up. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: poorisaac
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 26, 2009 11:51 am PT
Review:  What can I say? The World Ends With You was a total surprise. I had no idea what to expect upon 
 first buying it (which took a considerable amount of time because of lack of units) . Everything 
 about the game was unlike anything I had ever experienced in a video game. The DS has definitely 
 come into its own with these fantastic new IP's from these quiet developers. 
  
  When I first started playing I was instantly drawn in by the game's fantastic sound track, wether 
 it was the techno beats, or the gotta-love-em bubblegum J-Pop tracks. Everything about the music 
 fit perfectly, and no song sounded unneccesary or out of place. Which leads into the games fantastic 
 sound effects. From the simple button presses, to the sounds of exhausted characters in dire need 
 of healing, the sound was nothing short of impeccable. All the voices fit the characters amazingly 
 as well. From Neku's self-deprecating, isolated rants to himself, to Beat's in your face, street 
 talk, it all fit. When it comes down to it, voice acting can really make or break a game. The story 
 can be enthralling, but if the story is told by a horribly obnoxious, or otherwise just unfitting 
 voice, you could probably care less about the events throughout the game. But not with TWEWY. You 
 just want to see what happens next.
  
  Alright, visually the game is awesome. The sprites used show a perfect, unique style that is perfectly 
 fitting in a fictional Shibuya. The characters, the clothing, the city around you just jumps off 
 the DS' screens. I have never seen such detail put into the look of a game like I have found in 
 TWEWY. The frame rate and animation never drop out either, which is a surprise considering how 
 much action is going on on the screen. The bosses are absolutely massive taking up both screens 
 at times, and are wonderfully animated. The presentation of the cut scenes is also noteworthy in 
 its storyboard showing. At times you will see an actual scene play out, but the majority are all 
 still frame (while the boards still move) .
  
  Which brings me to the story itself. This is probably the only part of the game that showed a weak 
 side. The idea of friendship being able to overcome even the weakest odds just seems too cliche 
 to me. Don't get me wrong the story has more to it than friendship, but it is the big focus. You 
 take Shibuya, and give it this flipside called the UG. Now in this UG it is basically a game for 
 people that aren't satisfied with their lives, and have died in the Real World. Now every character 
 has had to forfeit something in order to compete in this game. Now once in the UG, the player has 
 to form a pact with another player or they are pretty much done for. Enter Neku, this loner with 
 outrageous headphones who really just wants people to leave him alone. Neku dies inexplicably and 
 ends up in this UG where he eventually runs into a young girl named Shiki, who is Neku's absolute 
 polar opposite. They end up forming a pact in order to fight the Noise. Now the Noise are just 
 these half tattoo, and half-animal beings that live for no other reason than to attack you. The 
 way they came about with the Noise is nothing short of awesome and those of you who have a wide 
 knowledge of music will appreciate the titles every Noise has been given. The Noise have been taken 
 from some unknown place by the Reapers which are the antagonists of the game. The Reapers are basically 
 the police of the UG and can eliminate players as they see fit. That seems unfair at times, but 
 that is how the UG works, it is a game and they are the referees. Within the Reapers there is an 
 established rank system, and like I said before those of you with musical knowledge will immediately 
 recognize all the titles as having a musical background. The Conductor is the overall master of 
 this game, he knows all the goings on and he decides how things play out. I won't go much farther 
 into detail because I don't want to give away this very well-written, if not somewhat convoluted 
 story. 
  
  Probably the most interesting aspect of this game is the way it is played. You have two planes 
 of battle, the top and bottom screens. Now one player is mapped to the top screen and D-pad or 
 face buttons, and the bottom screen is where Neku battles. Sounds simple enough, right? Wrong. 
 This way of playing requires very chaotic finger play and adept hand eye coordination. While the 
 top screen has only four buttons to use, the bottom screen is played using only the stylus. Using 
 "pins" you make different shapes, circles, lines, and numerous other movements with the stylus 
 to activate these pins special powers. It can get ridiculous at times because sometimes you can 
 easily get distracted by one screen over the other but after about an hour of playing it quickly 
 becomes second nature. Memorization of your favorite pins is definitely something you need to spend 
 time doing in order to fully have a grasp on the fighting. Now "pins", are exactly what they sound 
 like. They are just a basic pin that your character equips, up to a maximum of 6. There are all 
 different types and brands of pins though, and the brands play a definite role in wether you have 
 an upper hand in the battles or wether you might find yourself in dire straits. 
  The city of Shibuya is broken up into districts, and every district has a specific brand that is 
 popular, but as you find later the more you fight with certain pins, the more popular that specific 
 brand becomes in that area. The benefits generally deal with how powerful your pins become. Now 
 the pins themselves level up as well, with some being able to evolve and others being able to just 
 be used more or simply becoming more effective. Your characters level up via EXP which is won from 
 battles, while pins get something called PP. Now, PP is gained based on how well you do in a fight. 
 This means that the faster you fight, the less damage you take, and the more diverse attacks you 
 use means you will get more of a PP multiplier after the fight along with various pins that your 
 enemies may drop. There are other ways to earn PP other than just fighting. One of the most useful 
 methods is that you can gain PP just by not playing. This can be a good thing but after 7 days 
 of not playing the game stops accumulating PP. You get the most PP after the first day of not playing 
 and it decreases subsequently with every day that passes. You can also gain PP from wirelessly 
 connecting with your friends. The other use for pins is in the minigame Tin Pin Slammer, which, 
 in the only way I can really think of describing it, is like a hyper-fast sumo wrestling with your 
 pins on a special playing board. Now each pin has special abilities that it can use to its advantage 
 to knock the other players pin off of the board. When a player runs out of pins that person loses. 
 It is kind of erratic, but it is fitting with the games aesthetic so it seems like less of a deterrent. 
 
  The way that your characters statistics are determined are through fashion. That's right, clothing. 
 In order to understand this idea, you have to understand that Shibuya, Tokyo is widely known for 
 it being a fashion district. That being said, what you wear is a VERY big deal in TWEWY. Matching 
 is also taken into consideration throughout various portions of the game. You can buy new clothing 
 simply by walking into a store and buying it. Now there are many different brands to choose from 
 and what you want to wear depends on your "bravery" stat. Basically, the bravery stat is a better 
 way to say "Are you man enough to wear girl's clothing?" because you will find yourself doing that 
 to get better strength, defense, and health bonuses. When it all comes down to it the gameplay 
 of TWEWY is like nothing you have ever seen before.
  
  Now, no game is perfect and TWEWY is no exception to that. There are several aspects of the game 
 that I found might have been able to use a little bit more attention. The story, while incredibly 
 original, started to kind of veer off course after about halfway through and I kind of lost interest 
 in it. It started off well enough but it eventually just got boring. I sincerely recommend buying 
 a screen protector for your DS, because the ridiculous amounts of taps, lines, loops, and various 
 other things you will be doing to it will definitely leave some marks. It is a very small price 
 to pay for originality. Some people might be turned off entirely by the fighting, as it is wild 
 and requires a lot of attention on both screens. That is fixed by the option of being able to ahve 
 the CPU control your top screen after a few secongs of not interacting with it. The only other 
 thing I would have liked out of the game was regarding all the different clothes you wear. All 
 the different outfits and they are never anything more than a pixelated tab in the item menu. I 
 know that the DS is pushing itself with the sheer amount happening on screen anyways, but it would 
 have been cool to actually see the outfits you equipped on your character actually be worn on his 
 or person.
  
  While having minor issues, TWEWY ended up being an immensely satisying experience that I could 
 definitely recommend to fans of Kingdom Hearts, Final Fantasy, or pretty much anyone looking for 
 something different on the DS. If you are looking for originality, great visuals, and an absolutely 
 engaging combat system, look no farther than The World Ends With You. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Batman_Vengence
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 19, 2009 12:54 pm PT
Review:  Alright. This game? Amazing. Simply amazing. This game had a great story line, awesome art direction, 
 and excellent music. You play as the detached bad ass Neku who has been drafted as a player into 
 the "Reaper's Game". All "players" of the game die to enter and must make it through a week completing 
 mission objectives and must avoid being erased by "noise", evil monster thingies. The music in this 
 game is well made and actually sounds like music. The battle mechanic is awesome and inventive, something 
 never seen before. Though sometimes boss battles can get a little discouraging. There is a large 
 variety of pins used to attack that you can collect and trade with friends. There are also music 
 cd's that you can collect. If you like kingdom hearts, I think you'll appreciate this game. If you 
 like pop, rap, and rock music, I think you'll appreciate this game. Buy this game. Easily one of the 
 best DS titles out there. Plain and simple. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Lady_Lilly
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 18, 2009 3:17 pm PT
Review:  it has a good and very long story, graphics are awesome too, specially because it looks manga-like 
 during cut scenes and the music makes it even more perfect.
  
  from the makers of kingdom hearts, another masterpiece, that is worth being bought.
  
  i can 
 assure you, that it will never get boring, because after the game, you can play through the single 
 chapters again, to collect special items and to fight bosses.
  
  customize your players with the different outfits you can get to make them stronger.
  
  enjoy 
 playing a different kind of rpg game, where you use most of the DS features, like the microphone, 
 or different kinds of moves with the stylus.
  
  if youre not sure about buying it right away, rent it first. but you will see, that i wasnt lying 
 to you, that you will definitely love it!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nekusonic
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 18, 2009 1:23 pm PT
Review:  If you ever wanted to play a game on the ds with an impressive story and great game play, you'll 
 find it in The World Ends With You. If you want to play a game that innovates the rpg genre, you 
 should play The World Ends With You.
  
  The combat in the game is fun, but it does take a while to get used to. You definitely need some 
 skill with your hands. After the learning curve, this game is a blast. You'll never put it down. 
 I appreciate the fact that gamespot made it a nominee for game of the year. I totally agree with 
 The World Ends With You being one of the best games of 2008. DS gamers, this is the rpg you have 
 been waiting for! It's hard to believe that a game this good exists on the Nintendo DS. It's highly 
 addictive and fun. It's also full of great story twists and interesting characters. I was very 
 impressed by this game. It is, in my book, considered to be a classic. Don't wait, buy this game 
 now. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: k_smoove
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 17, 2009 6:30 pm PT
Review:  What's Good:
  
  1. The story/writing
  Ordinarily, plots are not that important in games; they usually just serve to enhance the overall 
 experience. TWEWY's plot, however, is completely engrossing; it was the first time a plot in a 
 game really had me surprised on more than a few occasions. Without spoiling anything, the plot 
 basically follows an antisocial (not emo) , angsty teen named Neku as he fights for his life in 
 the Reapers' Game. Neku himself actually undergoes some serious character progression throughout 
 the game, eventually becoming a truly likable character. The rest of the cast is comprised of other 
 teenage players in the Game, as well as the mysterious Reapers who are running the Game. Neku will 
 partner up with three different kids throughout his adventures, and he will encounter many people 
 with unique personalities. In fact, just about every character in TWEWY, no matter how minor, has 
 some sort of background. Major characters all have deep back-stories and huge twists that actually 
 make you feel for them. The entire plot is told through well-written dialog that can be both witty 
 and serious, but usually more witty than anything.
  
  2. The battle system
  The battle system in TWEWY is unlike anything else out there. Players control characters on both 
 screens at the same time, with Neku on the bottom and his partner on the top. The game encourages 
 you to focus on one screen at a time through the "light puck" combo system, but I played through 
 the entire game while acting on both screens at the same time. Neku is controlled entirely via 
 the touch screen, as players tap, swipe, and rub the screen to activate his "Psych Pins." There 
 are over 300 pins to collect and level up in the game, and each one has unique properties, despite 
 there only being just over 10 types of attacks. Partner characters on the top screen are controlled 
 with the D-Pad or face buttons (for lefties) , and all three partners handle differently from each 
 other. The bottom screen is obviously more interesting, but the two different styIes complement 
 each other quite nicely.
  
  3. The soundtrack
  Much of TWEWY's soundtrack consists of original rock, hip-hop, and pop songs, designed to fit the 
 modern setting of Shibuya, Tokyo. The songs all sound professional and just about all of them are 
 extremely catchy. There are over 30 songs in the game, though each week only plays about 6 in battles, 
 so a few tracks repeat a bit more than they should.
  
  4. Replayability
  Few games have ever given enough incentive to go back and replay the storyline again after finishing 
 the game once. TWEWY offers a rich backstory that can only be discovered by going back through 
 the plotline and completing special missions. It's also just about impossible for you to master 
 every pin in your first run-through, so completionists will love going back and finding and mastering 
 all of the pins.
  
  
  What's Bad:
  
  1. J-Pop
  About a third of TWEWY's soundtrack is J-Pop, which will not attract you if you're not already 
 a fan. There are quite a few songs that are in their original Japanese form, and the singers in 
 those versions can be grating to people who aren't into Japanese culture. Even some of the English 
 tracks can be annoying, especially the ones featured in the first week of the game. I have nothing 
 against female singers, but most of the ones chosen for this game do not have the best voices to 
 complement the catchy instrumentals.
  
  2. Grinding
  TWEWY never actually forces grinding on you, but it still became a problem for me. Screens are 
 filled with monsters to fight, but doing more than about four sets of 4-chain battles can become 
 repetitive. The fault in this case actually falls on myself, but I'm sure I won't be the only one 
 affected by it. Technically, this isn't really a complaint, but more so a warning to my fellow 
 overzealous gamers.
  
  The World Ends With You gets a 9.5 out of 10. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Night-kitsune
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 15, 2009 5:56 am PT
Review:  Wow, this is a really amazing and original game. I can't beleive I had second thoughts about buying 
 it because of the graphics, I won't make that mistake again. You really are missing out if you don't 
 play it.
  
  STORY: The storyline is intresting and compelling, the main driving point of the game. It revolves 
 around your characters amnesia (isn't it always?) after collapsing in the middle of Tokyo's Shibuya. Your 
 character is a real ass, but meets even worse people throughout his journey. The characters are all 
 intresting in their own way, although there is stereotyping too (big stupid guy, emo guy, etc.) I personally 
 liked Joshua best. You play with different partners with their own dark secrets and troubles. You 
 have to beat the reapers and the composer who control the GAME or be erased. You play through to 
 find out how you ended up here. The conversations between characters are hilarious at times and 
 emotional at others.
  GRAPHICS: The graphics are decent enough, with angular anime styled cutscenes and sequences that 
 move and all. The battle graphics are less impressive but this isn't an issue. The bosses and character 
 designs are very good.
  SOUND: There are fully voiced movie sequences throughout the game and plenty of chat throughout 
 the battles, which is impressive. The voices suit the characters perfectly. The music is astounding, easily 
 the best in any game i have ever played. Their the reason I love j-pop and j-rock now and i'm even 
 considering getting them on my i-pod their so good! They fit the battles and cut-scenes perfectly. They 
 will surely remain in your head long after you stop playing
  GAMEPLAY: OK, This is a bit complicated at first, you use both screens using the stylus at the bottom 
 screen and buttons for the top trying to match things to get combos. You may also let the computor 
 control the top if you wish. Neku at the bottom uses "pins" to launch a series of different attacks 
 and pins can be leveled up too. This makes great, innovative use of the stylus and never feels gimmicky. While 
 exploring Shibuya Neku can use a pin to scan for monsters and you only fight when you choose to. You 
 can also link together battles for more points and items. In fact you can lower your level to get 
 even more items.
  OVERALL: One of the best DS games evr and needs a sequel NOW!. The story is amazing (if not a little 
 confusing) , the characters memorable and unique (especially minaminamoto or however you spell it. The 
 graphics in cutscenes are a nice anime style, but battle graphics are nothing special although the 
 enemies look cool. The game is worth buying for the music alone and voicees are excellent. Unique 
 gameplay and great music make this well worth a buy.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: megamannt123
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 7, 2009 12:53 pm PT
Review:  There is one word to describe this game: Revolutionary. It simply goes beyond anything I've ever 
 played before in an RPG. Everything blends so well, that it could probably top all other games 
 in the genre.
  
  The story is the real gem here. The main character, Neku, is kind of a loner and antisocial. He 
 wakes up in the middle of the shibuya crosswalk to find that he's dead. He doesn't remember anything 
 about how he died, but he has to take part in something called the "Reaper's game," where the players (the 
 dead people) pair up and complete tasks. However, the tasks are timed, and those who don't complete 
 the mission get erased from exsistence. But, if the players who complete the tasks can last seven 
 days, then they earn a second chance at life. Neku teams up with a girl named Shiki, who has her 
 own story, and thus begins an immersive story. 
  
  The gameplay is incredible. What you do while you play is listen to the story, then wander through 
 a replica of modern day Japan. The streets and environments are fantastic. You try to figure out 
 that day's mission, which could have you fighting noise, which are the creatures you defeat to 
 earn experience and whatnot (similar creatures like you would find in final fantasy) , helping people 
 to find items, go the stores and buy things, fight bosses, answer quizes, or just talk. When you 
 fight, you use both screens. You start as Neku, and use pins to fight. These pins require you to 
 drag the stylus across enemies, tap the enemies, slash up, draw a circle, and many other things 
 to attack, based on which pins you use. You can attack with your partner as well, by simply pushing 
 on the directional pad towards the enemies. When an enemy dies on one screen, it dies on the other 
 as well. You could go the whole game using only one screen, but switching screens boosts your attack 
 often. When you explore normally, you just drag Neku to where you want to go. Eventually, you will 
 team up with two other characters, and you can choose parts of the story to do over again without 
 erasing over anything!
  
  With the stores, you can buy clothes that increase the power, defense, or health of you characters. 
 There are many brands to choose from and what you wear can affect you in certain areas where you 
 fight, so be observant! You can buy foods from others that you can give to your characters to digest 
 and gain additional bonuses after fighting! You can even buy music to listen to, and the songs 
 in the game are amazingly catchy. When you buy from a shop owner, you gain experience from them, 
 and the more you buy from them, the more things they'll add to their inventory. Also, when you 
 turn your game off, you gain experience for your pins, even when you don't play! The environments 
 are very cool, so enjoy all of it!
  
  Overall, this game is recommended for everyone! Everything about this game rocks! Cheers! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: VivaKatimari
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 3, 2009 3:27 pm PT
Review:  TWEWY is a action RPG that has a very innovated control scheme where you use both screens. lets 
 start with the good. The game play is amazing! You use the touch screen to control your character 
 (Neku) with the touch screen and your partner with the buttons on the top screen Battle's you move 
 like a fighting game in an arena This may sound hard but it is fairly easy to use. Graphics in 
 this game are very anime style 2d, and all the cut scenes are done like a comic book. The sound 
 in the game are good because there are certain cutscenes that there is voice acting. The music 
 is Really bad and annoying it is this annoying techno pop Sh*t. The story in this game is Amazing 
 it has to do with Death and final regrets and uncovering the truth behind the UG and Neku. Lasting 
 appeal is quite good there a lot of pins to collect and this annoying little mini game witch is 
 actually quite fun after awhile. The thing I don't like is there no only for the tin pin mini game. 
 Overall The World Ends With You is an amazing game I suggest buying it ASAP if you like action 
 RPGs.
  The Good:
  Graphics.
  Controls are Very Good
  Voice over sound cool
  Story is Very interesting
  The Bad:
  Music is annoying 
::::::

::::::
UserName: danny_dm_moore
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 3, 2009 2:40 am PT
Review:  It's all too easy for RPG fans to only talk about Final Fantasy, especially when talking about 
 Square Enix, that franchise's creators. However, Final Fantasy isn't the only title in the company's 
 catalogue, and people often forget that not only did they create the daddy of the genre, they also 
 arguably spawned said genre as well. 
  
  And so rather than rehash yet another FF game for the DS, Square Enix has moved into its fighting 
 stance and shouted 'Bring It', and brought it they have with the immaculate The World Ends With 
 You, the first new IP from the JRPG house in many years. 
  
  The World Ends With You tells the story of Neku, a fairly stereotypical RPG protagonist to begin 
 with. Neku is grumpy, dislikes people and is only concerned with himself. That is however, until 
 he finds himself in a very strange version of Shibuya, a district of modern day Tokyo, the games 
 setting. Attacked by strange creatures called the Noise, Neku is forced to make a pact with various 
 people as he learns the truth of the Noise, his new found friends and the alternate Shibuya. 
 
  
  While to begin with the tale is fairly generic, as the character of the game starts to seep into 
 every pore it becomes a fantastically epic tale. Yes, Neku can be an annoyingly selfish git to 
 begin with, his inner thoughts and feelings, and his changing sensibilities, really give the character 
 weight. 
  
  Apart from the story, The World Ends With You is a technical feat on the DS. Its use of voice, 
 music and special effects is outstanding, proving that while its 3D capabilities maybe lacking, 
 you can make a brilliant 2D game on the system, and a brilliant game this is. 
  
  This brilliance permeates down to the core battle system, which most RPG's live and die by, luckily 
 though The World Ends With You's system is innovative and fresh, using all of the DS's capabilities. 
 When you enter battle (done by using a scanning mechanic to see what noise are in the area and 
 then tapping the icons) , the screen changes as normal for an RPG, but since Neku is always accompanied 
 by a companion, they also appear on the top screen with Neku on the bottom. 
  
  Neku uses a series of 'Pin's', which give him various powers, ranging from slashing an enemy to 
 firing a spread of energy bullets to encasing himself in protective shields, and they are all activated 
 by various actions on the touch screen, such as pressing the stylus on Neku, slashing across him, 
 tapping an empty space or enemy or drawing circles. They are even some that require you to blow 
 or shout into the microphone to send out shockwaves. 
  
  Neku's partner is controlled using the D-pad, and by tapping various directions and following an 
 on screen series of Icons, the partner attacks the same targets that appear on both screens. If 
 the partner hits the right icons in the right way, they earn Fusion stars, which allow both characters 
 to unleash a devastating combined attack. 
  
  After each battle, the Pin's used earn PP (pin points) which slowly level up the pins and may possibly 
 let them evolve to more powerful versions. You also, rather ingeniously, earn PP by not playing 
 the game, as the pins get better when rested. This encourages breaks and rewards you even though 
 you haven't played, and while you cant evolve your pins totally by just leaving it a few days, 
 is a neat touch. 
  
  Another interesting mechanic is the light puck, a green ball of light that passes between the characters 
 as they score successful attacks. This puck increases with each pass, and the longer you keep it 
 in play and keep it being passed, the more powerful your attacks become, encouraging thoughtful 
 and slightly rhythmic game play. 
  
  Each area of Shibuya also has affinities to the various brands in the game, and if an area likes 
 one brand it can up to double your attack power, but if it doesn't like another brand your attack 
 can be halved. This can be solved by fighting battles wearing clothes (the games equivalent of 
 armour) and pins of the lower brand, thereby increasing the area affinity with that brand.
  
  In all The World Ends With You is a superb RPG, and one of the finest new IP's on the DS. It 
 is a technical marvel and while it does have the odd slight issue such as it can be hard to remember 
 where to go on missions and what parts of Shibuya are where, this can be over looked easily. A 
 truly brilliant title. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: jeroentje001
Rating: 9.5
Date: Feb 26, 2009 2:10 am PT
Review:  I myself have never been a fan of the "new" rpgs, you know the ones with real-time battles. I'm 
 a fan of the old-school rpgs, turn-based fights and random encounters. Well, my opinion has changed 
 ,to say the least after player TWEWY.
  
  I heard a lot of good things about this game, but as I mentioned before I've never been a huge 
 fan of this kind of rpgs. So I didn't immediately buy it... Huge mistake! This game is awesome 
 and I wish I had bought it on the day of it's release.
  The story of the game is this: you are Neku, a young boy who doesn't have many friends. But you're 
 okay with that because all that Neku wants to do is disappear. He can't stand the noise of other 
 people, he wants to live in a different world and wants to be left alone. One day Neku wakes up 
 and finds himself in some sort of different world. It's the same city where he has lived all his 
 life, but somehow it's different. The people don't seem to notice Neku... I'm not going to spoil 
 too much of the story :D
  The grapghics-style of the game is superb, fresh and unlike anything you have ever seen before. 
 You will fall in love with the characters, backgrounds, enemies,... from the first minute you lay 
 your eyes on them. I mean it, the whole style of the game really contributes to this game's experience.
 
  But the best part about this game is the gameplay. I never could have imagined before playing 
 this game that real-time battles in rpgs were this fun. I played other real-time Rpgs like "Tales 
 of Symphonia", but the battles in those games bored me after a short period of time. The battles 
 in TWEWY are nothing like that, they aren't boring. They are fast-paced, fun and action-packed. 
 You will happily destroy every monster/ enemy you encounter in this game.
  Another element what makes the gameplay so fun and addicting are the pins you have to collect (play 
 the game and you know what pins are and what they are for, no spoilers here!) . Every pin has a 
 different power and it's fun trying to collect every pin in the game.
  Another unique element of this game is the fact that you have the power over the game's difficulty. 
 What I mean by this is, during the game you can change the difficulty. In other games you have 
 to choose the difficulty before you actually play the game. But in TWEWY you can change the difficulty 
 while you play it. Ofcourse if you play it on a harder difficulty you get bonuses like more exp. 
 or better pins.
  So far so good, but now one of the less good aspects of the game: the story. I don't know why, 
 but I just found it less interesting than other Rpgs. There was never a time when I could really 
 relate to the main characters and I think this is necessary for a well-told story. But this is 
 ofcourse my opinion. Other people may play this game and find the story to be awesome.
  But in general I really liked this "action"-rpg, I just wanted a more gripping story...
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: gotomah
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 21, 2009 4:50 pm PT
Review:  Despite its simple mechanics and repetitive scheme of play it makes you addicted the moment you 
 touch it.
  
  The huge item collection, the almost unfinishable list of Pins to get powers from, the variety 
 of situations and characters and the story full of twists is all well stick together by an easy 
 by deep style of play.
  
  It starts as a simple "boy gets lost in the woods of modern times having to find the way out of 
 himself" and suddenly you are submerged on an abyss of undead branded areas in a trendy neighbourhood 
 in Tookyoo.
  
  The difficulty can go as up or as low as you want, always rewarding you for choosing the right 
 amount of challenge.
  
  Worth playing... all the 60 hours I have accumulated on it.. and still playing ;P
  
  Quite 
 a new execution of one of the oldest videogame genres. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Grim_Heaper94
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 19, 2009 11:30 am PT
Review:  The World Ends With You is an action RPG set in the streets of Shibuya, Tokyo. It also happens to 
 be my favorite game ever because of it's engrossing story, intuitive combat, intiuging visual style, 
 and high level of originality.
  
  THE STORY: 11/10
  
  Seriously the story is awesome. It's hard to describe without spoiling anything but trust me it's 
 awesome. The main character is an emo teen named Neku who wakes up in Shibuya suffering from a 
 case of amnesia. The whole amnesia angle isn't as generic as it may sound. He is then given a challenge 
 via text message and must complete 7 of these or face erasure. That's all I can say without spoiling 
 something.
  
  VISUALS:9/10
  
  In the field and in battle they are classic 2-d visuals with a ton of style.
  In conversations 
 you get highly stylized anime-influenced character portraits
  Battles have plentifull nice little effects.
  
  SOUND: 9/10
  
  The music is a mix of songs 
 with Japanese and English lyrics.
  The game features a good amount of voice acting.
  That's all for sound.
  
  GAMEPLAY:10/10
  
  This is hard to describe. In the field you converse 
 with NPCs, buy items, and solve the occasional puzzle. In the game's real-time battles you equip 
 special items (pins) which each require a specific intuitive stylus or microphone command to activate. After 
 using one a set number of times you must give it time to re-boot. Oh, and this whole time you are 
 controlling a second character on the top screen who can pass a puck of light back-and-forth with 
 the first character to make your attacks stronger. Oh, and they use playing cards to earn stars 
 and charge a super attack. It's not as confusing as it sounds but it is as hectic but that's just 
 another thing I love about it.
  
  CONCLUSION:10/10
  
  There is absolutely nothing to hate about this game, but everything to love.
  There is also a 
 good amount of re-playability thanks to the game's 
  Secret Reports which add some back-story to the game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SonofPain
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 18, 2009 9:28 am PT
Review:  It was amazing and dazziling you will be on eged waiting for more. There was so much to do there 
 are almost endless number of pins. There is so many awsome bosses to fight off with ur best pins. 
 The pins effects are spectacular at the least. so many differnt thing to collect that u will be 
 on the edege waiting for the next game to come out. You wont want to do anything els on the DS 
 ever agian. it will sock and aww you till you cant see striat. This may just be the game the DS 
 was looking for to save there system. This will be Your new fave game for the DS. Crazy awsome 
 effects form the pins will make u want to collect them all more then pokemon.  _ It will keep you 
 wondering who u can trust and who u cant. there are so many twist and turns you have to payatention 
 too it or els u will lose it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lord_arya1
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 17, 2009 3:44 am PT
Review:  wow
  i just finished the game and man o man have the last few days in my life been gr8!!
  the game is amazing in every sense..
  the plot is very well set and has you guessing till the 
 last minute..
  the art work of the game is just brilliant
  its to die for .. the gameplay is good as well
  the games got everything from action to drama 
 heck even a love story of sorts!!
  it teaches you to value friendship and that there is a much larger world waiting to be discovered 
 if only you dare to look beyond yourself...
  
  the story grows on you in the sense that you can feel and relate to the characters emotions. the 
 frustration in the beginning and each time u come across a major hurdle 
  at first the concept of two fighting on both screens is irritating and hard but you get used to 
 it and learn to react in both screens simoultaneously..
  the concept if pins is also very nice although confusing..
  it takes time and patience to come 
 up with a good set of pins that compliment each other and are effective but you get the hang of 
 it 
  the diversity amongst the pins offer a variety of playing styles to suite each persons individual 
 likes and dislikes...
  
  towards the end of the story you find yourself so immersed in the world of shibuya you really feel 
 what is going on with all the characters.. the joy when they are re united or the sorrow when they 
 get erased.. its like you are in the game and experiencing it first hand.. the prefect gaming experience!!.
 
  the story is well set and the gameplay and graphics do justice to it
  
  last but not the least 
  after you finish the main quest the unlocked content is also very entertaining 
 and can keep you occupied for a long time..
  
  overall a must have for any DS owner...
  10 on 10 without a doubt...
  
  easily one of the best games i have ever played in my life... 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: vonstalhein
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 16, 2009 2:00 am PT
Review:  The World Ends With You 
  
  My first experience of The World Ends With You (TWEWY) was gleaned looking over my Japanese friend's 
 shoulder, and consisted of a bewildering array of flying cat dolls, self-replicating jellyfish 
 and, even more perplexing, my chum's attempts at explaining it to me whilst his higher faculties 
 struggled heroically with fighting with two different characters across two screens at once. TWEWY 
 is a game you do not attempt in media res. It is however, a quirky, anime inspired mystery wrapped 
 up in addictive combat and enough pin collecting to satisfy even the most compulsive-obsessive 
 amongst you. Flawed in places, perhaps, frustrating at times, definitely, but nevertheless this 
 is one of the few DS games that I would class as 'essential'  and that's not just because of my 
 unquenchable need to collect pins.
  
  The first thing you're likely to notice as you power up TWEWY (apart, that is, from the cryptic 
 title and scratch-heavy intro music) is the sense of scale. Iconic sections of Shibuya, Japan are 
 recreated accurately in all their bustling, fashion conscious glory. The game itself doesn't feature 
 that many areas in a sense, but the fact that the landmarks and distinct flavour of each district 
 are true to life is impressive, atmospheric and draws you instantly in to what I believe to be 
 the strongest of TWEWYs myriad positives  the story.
  
  Without giving too much away, your protagonist Neku wakes up at the start of the game in the middle 
 of a Shibuya crossroads, lacking memory and amiability but possessed of the ubiquitous gravity 
 defying hair. Tasked shortly thereafter with surviving a game set up by beings known as `reapers` 
 within 7 days, Neku is subsequently thrust into a dangerous web of intrigue, in a Shibuya mysteriously 
 but almost intangibly different to the one he presumably fell asleep in. Like my previous sentence, 
 you might be forgiven for thinking that the game is riddled with clichs and classic anime  style 
 narrative shortcuts (read: Laziness) You would, however, be sorely mistaken. Frustratingly, any 
 further evidence to support my following praise would utterly ruin one of the better character 
 development arcs in many, many years, along with a story riddled with twists and turns emblematic 
 of the sinister Shibuyas backstreets. In an profoundly well-paced narrative, Neku evolves from 
 an annoying Squall-esque badboy to a well-rounded, believable, sympathetic and genuine hero. Considering 
 that TWEWY was indeed made my Square-Enix, such (eventual) deviation from their angsty stereotype 
 is a heartily welcomed change. By the rather epic climax, like me, you may well have learned a 
 few things about yourself on the way, as Nekus moral compass, as well as his over-arching introverted 
 musings, become increasingly personal whilst transposing perfectly to the player. 
  
  Now, if all this seems like high praise, it is; rarely has a game, let alone one on a handheld, 
 pulled philosophical pondering off quite so well. It IS high concept, and whilst this elevates 
 the game beyond many, it does seem that the developers were, as a result, a little negligent in 
 other areas.
  
  The combat, for example. In a curiously bold move, combat in TWEWY is handled across both screens 
 and once, with both characters (Neku meets a number of different partners throughout the game) 
 sharing the same health bar. Neku occupies the bottom screen, and responds to stylus movements, 
 depending on which `pins` you have equipped him with. Shiki, like the other partners, fights on 
 the top screen, and instead is controlled by the D-pad, attacking as you press directions to navigate 
 through a combo grid, ultimately ending on a symbol that matches with turned-over cards at the 
 very top of the screen. Matching enough of these symbols will unleash a combo, restoring health 
 and dealing out some serious psyche damage, often in the form of falling buses or meteorite showers; 
 if that sentence doesn't make you curious to try it, I don't know what will. 
  
  
  Unfortunately however, some pins have awkward commands, and things can often end up in a furious 
 scribble fest, whilst you simply allow your top screen partner to dish out the damage on the fast-auto 
 setting, often with greater alacrity and finesse than you could. Likewise, dodging with Neku can, 
 ironically, be hit and miss; perseverance is essential, the learning curve being more of a glacial, 
 spiked wall. To alleviate this however, in what transpires to be both a saving grace and one of 
 the most exciting features of the combat system, is the way your characters' level bar and the 
 difficulty settings are both adjustable at any time within the game, save combat. The higher your 
 level, the higher your hitpoints, but the less chance you stand of scoring some rare and badass 
 pin  allowing you to manipulate this setting makes for a fantastically tense risk/reward mechanic. 
 Add to this your ability to choose when to fight, by 'scanning' the area for Neku's enemies the 
 'Noise', and then with successive taps of the stylus on the enemy icons chaining together fights 
 for a greater percentage chance of cash and rare pins, and you have a refreshing degree of control. 
 This freedom often had me setting Neku to the lowest level, getting repeatedly caned but foregoing 
 escape just for the sheer satisfaction of noise erasure. That, of course, along with my compulsive 
 need to collect the more powerful pins, which, if you haven't already guessed, will haunt my dreams 
 for many more nights to come.
  
  In another sparkle of inspiration, currency in TWEWY is not, like in so many others, redundant. 
 Virtually any keen RPG aficionado will, at one point, have understood that their newly, impulse-purchased 
 Armour of Furious Beatdown will, with heart-breaking rapidity, be rendered obsolete by a quest 
 item, usually something like The Incendiary Double-Plate-Mail of Omni-Death. Not so, thankfully, 
 in TWEWY, where you will gawp early on at unfeasibly expensive headgear that your wallet is literally 
 not big enough to afford. This, it becomes evident upon beating the game, is because there are 
 plenty of reasons to play through the game a second time, wherein you will have a significantly 
 bigger purse, better items, and more purchasing power. On first play through however, there are 
 still plenty of shiny things to catch your grossly consumerist eye. In the fashion conscious bustle 
 of Shibuya, the trend of a given area affects the effectiveness of your items, all of which are 
 branded. Conversely, a good showing in a big battle can impress the mindless sheep among the crowds, 
 and thus you will be considered a trendsetter, meaning that with a little stubbornness, you can 
 work-around having to alter your gear for every single area for maximum firepower. 
  
  Unfortunately, and this is a trend across many RPGs and action games that I seriously Lament, your 
 fashion choices arent reflected visually in combat. The visuals as a whole however, are striking, 
 well animated and colourful. Cut scenes feature static character models and what will prove rather 
 too much text for some gamers, but still get their messages across effectively  on strength of 
 the witty penmanship and unique character aesthetic. Indeed, whilst enemies take the form of stylised 
 animals with parts of their anatomy re-textured as colourful 'noise', they manage to impress on 
 virtue of their variety, and boss-fights, excepting the final one, are huge and challenging, but 
 often confusing spot-tests in weak-spot spotting. The final boss fight differs from this template 
 only in that it is even more huge, and without the right pin set up, virtually impossible. 
  
  TWEWY then, is a game with its sights set firmly on the big picture, with an epic storyline 
 just begging to be translated into a real anime, and plenty of high concepts. It is also, for the 
 best part, able to balance this possible pretentiousness with many smaller scale ideas, of which 
 there are too many to credit properly in one review, but include the wonderful equipment system, 
 the touch screen controls, the humour, the 'food' system and the rewards for taking your time finishing 
 it  and then coming back for another go. The game struggles at times with touch-screen precision, 
 pacing and coherency, but miraculously with a little patience, all of these can be justified, or 
 at least happily forgiven and forgotten, in favour of what is a touching, addictive and constantly 
 innovative foray into hand held gaming. The World Ends With This Gameyou'll know what I mean. 
 
  
  
  DNNY 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Ingus27
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 15, 2009 9:42 am PT
Review:  Okay, AWESOME. Do you like anime? I didn't really care until I played this game. Never thought 
 you could make a game as awesome as this. One day, a kid named Neku Sakuraba wakes up in the town 
 of Shibuya, and has no idea how he got there. He keeps getting attacked by strange monsters until 
 he makes a pact with a girl named Shiki. She gives Neku a pin with powers that helps him attack 
 the monsters that they call "Noise". Later on he finds out that he is playing a game called "The 
 Reaper's Game", run by people who act as officers called "Reapers". Then he finds out that you 
 have to DIE to get into the game and to play you have to give up the thing that you value most. 
 What did Neku give up, and how did he die?
  
  
  
  P. S. Sorry if this kinda spoiled the experience. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Lenray234
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 14, 2009 7:05 am PT
Review:  Simply put thus game is amazing. Beautiful anime-themes graphics, an entertaining plot, fun gameplay. 
 It has it all
  
  Story: "Mysteriously waking in the middle of Tokyo's trendiest district, teenager Neku gets a phone 
 message warning that he will cease to exist unless he completes an unusual mission". The plot keeps 
 you guessing right up until the end, I know you've probably heard that a million times before but 
 this game really does keep you guessing. I thought i had it figured out but when i got to the finale 
 i would never have guessed *spoiler* was the *spoiler*.
  
  Gameplay: Get ready for this. This is a DS game that actually uses the touch sreen. You almost 
 completely control the whole game with the stylus. the combat is different but in a good way. you 
 attack on two screens. You control your partner on the top screen with the directional buttons 
 and Neku with the stylus. It sounds hard but the game eases you into it so after a day you'll be 
 playing like a pro
  
  Sound: TWEWY has a soundtrack crammed with real songs. in-game you can actually buy cds and play 
 them from the pause menu. in terms of effects TWEWY sounds great, when you move in to attack you'll 
 hear Neku and his partner make witty (and ussualy rude) comments about their enemies.
  
  In the end TWEWY is an amazing game (i can't find anything wrong with it) that no RPG fan should 
 miss. Even if you don't get into RPGs you'll still probably enjoy. If you liked Kingdom Hearts 
 your'e bound to love this 
::::::

::::::
UserName: chappy_man
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 10, 2009 8:47 am PT
Review:  When i first saw The World Ends With You, two things came to mind. The first being what a lazy 
 title for a videogame, and the second was an bored yawn due to seeing the Square Enix logo on the 
 case.
  
  Although both of these things had turned me off I decided I would give the new IP a try, and see 
 how it went. To say now considering i haven't yet beat the story line or really gotten that deep 
 in I can say now its going to be a game i pickup for a while running.
  
  So the main premise of the game as i am sure you have heard before is to live 7 days. Neku the 
 protagonist awakes some day in the core of Shibuya and is faced by two enemies, the noise (which 
 are like a cross of demon creatures and tattoos) and the reapers ( a more seemingly sentient bunch 
 bent of taking you out) . The story revolves around this game composed by the reapers and has you 
 working to survive the allotted 7 days.
  
  The story can branch and be a bit confusing as i saw so far, but all in all it keeps you coming 
 back.
  
  Graphically though the TWEWY shows a nice rendition of capabilities on Nintendo's loved and famed 
 handheld. A style crossing a manga, and dark graphic novel, results in something different and 
 good to look at. Along with this it doesn't go to far to make it all seem distant as you play. 
 It may not be a GTA but it certainly doesn't disappoint.
  
  Now much like a square enix game you have the good old leveling, which means battles, and means 
 possible grind fest. Thankfully the game is done in such a way, and stands out enough to remove 
 this pain.
  
  Battles are joint, you play as two characters, and control both at the same time. Your partner 
 is on the top screen easily controlled to jump by pressing up on the D-pad, and attack by using 
 a series of D-pad combos. While that is going on you use the stylus to move Neku around on the 
 touch screen and use his various "pins" to attack or block enemies.
  
  One thing to note is that rather than forcing you to control both if you want you can let the game 
 play your partner for you. After a certain amount of time they will automatically be controlled, 
 but you can set the game so you never have to control them if you like. This is a nice feature 
 if you get tired of your eys going to watch each screen back and forth.
  
  Another combat concept I liked from this game is chains. No long er do you have to run to one battle 
 select that battle, fight, win, and find the next one. in TWEWY you use a scan ability to see the 
 noise where ever they float about and tap on them with your stylus to begin a battle, the main 
 thing here is that you can tap on multiple noise forming a chain and allowing you to clear areas 
 faster, and keep a fast challenging pace to the game.
  
  Now on the sound end i was surprised to notice that unlike certain Guitar Hero games the music 
 sounds like it should be coming from your DS. And the music here suits the game very well. It clashes 
 as a mix of Pop and hip hop, most stemming from Japan, and fits the games premise quite well. My 
 only gripe here would have to be the music is good , but lost a little in translation through the 
 speakers. Pop in some headphones or attach some external speakers and it comes out alot better. 
 
  
  Aside if you are a purist and want the original Japanese tracks to the songs you will be happy 
 to know a few show up in the game. But for full Japanese your going to need to import.
  
  Lastly If I can leave you with one thing about this game its this, The World Ends With You, is 
 a Japanese RPG taking all the elements known to the Final Fantasy franchise, flipping them on their 
 Heads, and adding a plethora of fun and intrigue allowing not just the hardcore to enjoy but anyone 
 interested in trying something simply put as fun 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tacoeater831
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 9, 2009 5:11 pm PT
Review:  I was actually very suprised square enix was making this game. There not really known for taking 
 chances these days. Let me start off by saying this has of the best game storylines ive ever played 
 through. It takes place in the modern japanese district of shibuya. Your main character is an extremely 
 emo teenager named neku sakuraba. he is thrust into a game where the winners get to live. And the 
 losers die. The storyline is too awesome for words and should really be experienced firsthand. 
 The combat is also very fun. You have two characters in your party, one on each screen. You use 
 the buttons to control the character on the top screen, and the stylus to control the charcter 
 on the bottom screen. It takes some getting used to, but can be very fun. The difficulty also ramps 
 up early on, but if you lose, you have the option to try on a different difficulty. The graphics 
 have a graphitti-esque feel to them. And look very nice. A few of the bigger cutscenes have voice 
 acting, which is done well and is a nice bonus. Overall this game is among the best the DS has 
 to offer, a true classic, and hopefully a game that is able to spawn many, many sequels. Hopefully 
 nobody with a DS misses out on this gem of a game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Swoosie
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 5, 2009 6:22 pm PT
Review:  I'm a huge fan of Atlus' Shin Megami Tensei series on the PS2, and particularly the "Persona" games. 
 They mix a heavy dose of young adult Japanese style and culture, modern music, a fantastically 
 original art style, and unique gameplay into something that is part RPG, part adventure game, and 
 part life simulation. We've yet to get Persona on the DS, but The World Ends With You comes very 
 close, and makes for a wonderful experience.
  
  I was sick and tired of straight-up JRPGs on the DS after cranking through Final Fantasy III, IV 
 and then Chrono Trigger. They are great games, mind you, just not exactly wildly unique.
  
  However, TWEWY does everything... differently... very differently...
  
  There's a lot to love 
 here...
  
  1. Art Style -- The game uses large, colorful character representations cast against well-drawn, 
 modern urban backdrops. Everything has a strong sense of artistic style, and looks great.
  2. Music -- The game features a mixture of techno, J-pop, and a little bit of poppy hip-hop, Your 
 characters can buy songs in music stores in the game world (using your character's in-game money... 
 this isn't iTunes...) , allowing you to then change your background music as you play.
  3. Combat -- It's hard to describe... but the combat is not your rote action RPG, but is real time, 
 and makes great use of the DS stylus. It's frenetic, and can be intense, but is fun and very unique.
 
  4. Puzzles -- As you venture around solving the game, you'll be presented with puzzles that involve 
 everything from fighting specific baddies to implanting thoughts in people as they converse.
  5. Story -- A unique and interesting storyline that I won't tell here, as even trying would be 
 full of spoilers...
  6. Replayability -- The game, like many JRPGs is chock full of unlockables, and one play-through 
 of the game can take as little as 10 hours, or as many hours as you want. Consecutive play throughs 
 allow you to keep unlocking things.... outfits, buttons, abilities, food, etc. The game scales 
 in difficulty to match your ability, but also lets you manually change things. You can reduce combat 
 difficulty (at the expense of reducing what bonuses you get) , or increase it (to get more loot 
 off dead bad guys) .
  
  A few things are less than perfect:
  1. Combat -- Yes, this is also a bit negative... I found that the combat can get a little repetitive, 
 as there's not a lot of variety in enemy types.
  2. Story -- While unique, and while it does vary some as you re-play through, it's mostly the same 
 each play-through.
  
  Overall, for any fan that thought they were tired of JRPGs, or any DS owner ready for something 
 truly original and fun, The World Ends With You is an excellent choice. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mattsn22
Rating: 9.5
Date: Feb 5, 2009 11:29 am PT
Review:  When I first played The World Ends With You I didnt get the hang of it as I considered the 
 combat system too confusing. There was just too much happening onscreen. While I was struggling 
 to survive on the lower screen I didnt actually play the character on the upper screen. 
 In short: I couldnt manage the battle system. However, after about 2 month I picked it up 
 again. Surprisingly I had no problems getting into it and the game just left me very impressed. 
 The World Ends With You is a refreshing and innovative JRPG that delivers an enthralling storyline 
 and great gameplay. As you use ancient swords and armors in typical games of this well liked genre, 
 in this game fashion trends influence your amount of damage you deal to your opponents. But you 
 may also set the fashion with using so called pins, that have certain brands, in certain territories 
 of the city.
  
  The World Ends With You takes plays in Shibuya, so it again proves that this isnt an ordinary 
 RPG. The setting looks amazing as the visual design is all anime style. The stages are colorful 
 and look utterly great. However, in combat occasional slowdowns may occur when there is just too 
 much going on. But that happens rarely and isnt very annoying. 
  
  The sound in the game is very impressive and reminds of the soundtrack of Shin Megami Tensei: Persona 
 3 /4. There is a variety of very good tunes you may purchase in shops within the game as well. 
 So if you are looking through the menus you might select different songs and listen to whatever 
 you like most. Overall the sound is great and the effects in combat are good, too. However, you 
 wont find much voiceovers though. There are just a few noises to make conversations 
 more lively. 
  
  As I mentioned before the combat system isnt easy to handle as there is too much going on 
 and you have to control two characters simultaneously on the upper and the lower screen. But if 
 you do not get the hang of it there is an option which puts the character on the upper screen on 
 automatic. Thus you just have to play one character. The battle system consists of tapping onto 
 your foes or throwing things towards your enemies such as cars or bicycles with your stylus to 
 kill them. What you have to perform with your stylus depends on which pins you have selected before 
 in the pins menu. There you may select between a huge variety of pins that demand 
 all certain actions like slashing or touching or whatever to deal damage. As you proceed within 
 the game you can have up to six pins in battle which you may use. Anyways, you can exchange them 
 before an after combat situations to create your own deck that works for you best. 
 While you are playing with the stylus on the lower screen, the actions on the upper screen are 
 done with the buttons. However, you may change that as it depends on whether you are left or right 
 handed.
  The amount of damage you deal to your enemies, which are called Noise, depends on 
 whether you use the right pins. That means if you are using pins that are on the first place in 
 the brand chart the attack gets doubled and thus makes lots of damage. But if the opposite is the 
 case and you selected pins placed on the last place on the brand chart your attack even gets halved. 
 This is a nice feature and it causes you to try different pins though you can influence the brand 
 chart by using the same pins in a certain area on and on.
  
  As you progress you gain more experience points from defeating enemies, just like in any other 
 RPG. But you may decrease your level and thus decrease your lifepoints to gain even more EXP from 
 combats and increase the chance of getting good pins and rewards afterwards. So if you can handle 
 it decrease your level and you will get lots of money and better pins. The money pins can be put 
 into a thrash bin in your menu to get some cash. As your pins grow stronger with getting EXP there 
 is another feature which improves the strength of your pins. If you turn off your DS your pins 
 you have used at least get EXP for the amount of time of havent played (for up to 7 days) . 
 Neat isnt it?
  
  In The World Ends With You the main character is Neku, who again reminded me of the main character 
 of Shin Megami Tensei: Persona 3. He wears headphones as well. As you proceed within the game you 
 get to know several quirky characters and various accompany you and they are all different to handle 
 in combat. However, every characters own combat style is explained and there is a short training 
 session to learn how to play that new character.
  
  There are several difficulty settings from easy to hard, which influence how much reward you get 
 after combat and your gain of experience points. You even may lower the difficulty while you are 
 playing so you dont have to complete the game on one setting at your first playthrough. 
 To that if you died in a boss battle there is an option to try that situation on a lower difficulty 
 setting later on.
  
  Overall The World Ends With You surprised me and I had lots of fun playing it. It has several features 
 that distinguish TWEWY from other games of this beloved genre. It is a well executed JRPG which 
 delivers innovative and addictive gameplay along with an amazing soundtrack. Furthermore the visual 
 design is utterly beautiful. I highly recommend it to any DS owner.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: adriande2
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 31, 2009 2:18 pm PT
Review:  So far the best DS game so far.
  Original game play; great character and enemy design; sense of culture, music, and art. What's 
 not to like?
  Also has many hours of game play, it took me two weeks to beat the game when a game like Metroid 
 Prime took me just a week.
  With the type of game this is, it would appeal to many groups of people.
  The fact that the story 
 keeps you wondering is good also, not much games are like that.
  Wish there were more DS games were like this, not much of them are actually good.
  but the screen 
 division was ignored untill near the end of the game.
  also, Neku really appeals to me, since I am, mostly, like that. The characters having realistic 
 personalities really builds to the story, I think every game should have emotion to it.
  overall I'd give it a 9.7/10
  I can see why this game sells out quickly. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: RPGfan5
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 31, 2009 10:06 am PT
Review:  Is a masterpiece and a great start to a series, hopefully. Has a great story with dynamic characters. 
 Has a lot of twists and turns. A lot of the stuff I didn't see coming. Great battle system and 
 cool way of utilizing fashion and pins. One of my personal favorites of the game is lyrics with 
 the songs which really adds a lot to the game. If anyone is a RPG fan or just wants a really good 
 game that will give them a whole bunch of enjoyment they should really get this game. Has great 
 boss battles which can be really tough. You can pick your difficulty level which is really cool. 
 once you beat the game you can go back and play any level you want which counts for great replay 
 value.
  Has great conversations between characters and cool villains called noise which can take many forms, 
 from an elephant to a wolf.
  p. s. I hope you don't mind some bad language. It's not full blown, but there are some four letter 
 words in there. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: noclue_27
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 28, 2009 12:00 pm PT
Review:  Short Review of the different aspects that make The World Ends With You the greatest DS game to 
 date:
  
  Story: Once you start it will be hard to stop. The story of this game drives it's addictiveness 
 and is hard to book down just like a very good book (or manga/anime in the case of some people 
 XD) . I found myself only able to stop at the end/start of different chapters because the fact that 
 you are virtually timed makes gameplay and story seem so much more urgent and engaging.
  
  Gameplay: Gameplay is new and innovative with a never before seen combat system that I would love 
 to see expanded upon in future titles. The title retains basic RPG elements such as levels and 
 equipment, but also extends on these principals. Food as an example can be fed to your characters 
 once a day to increase specific stats, and you can scale your level down in order to make the game 
 more difficult but increase the drop chance of specific items.
  
  Sound: You won't find a more original soundtrack anywhere. I've searched far and wide for any music 
 that sounds similar to the "J-Urban" genre style you'll hear in TWEWY, but to no avail. Although 
 some may find the music to far out there for their taste, I personally love the music from this 
 game and see it as double icing on top of the already iced cake.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: mslug8
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jan 27, 2009 12:45 am PT
Review:  The World Ends With You is one of the best games ive played for the DS. The graphics and sound 
 are great, the story is good, and the characters are very likeable. The game is fairly easy, but 
 this doesn't matter at all, as you can lower your level freely in order to get better items.
  
  The problem lies within the gameplay. While the battles are incredibly fun, and the pin system 
 is great for all the different abilities, the extensive button mashing and stylus drawing will 
 probably scratch your touch screen. if you want to keep your DS in good condition, I suggest buying 
 a screen cover.
  
  I definitely recommend this game to anyone with a DS, but if you don't like this sort of genre 
 of game, there is a chance you'll find the story and gameplay very boring. If you like final fantasy 
 and other RPG's, buy this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Darkstar_Sinada
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 20, 2009 2:37 pm PT
Review:  The constant criticism with most modern JRPGs is that while they aren't broken, they all feel too 
 familiar. While I do agree with that, The World Ends With You proves there is still tons of room 
 to expand, through innovation.
  
  Set in an ultra-hip Japanese environment, TWEWY plays out day by day through the adventures of 
 Neku. He starts the game in a confusing environment, and spends the next few weeks figuring out 
 what is going on, and how he can survive.
  
  The story of TWEWY is hard to delve into in a review and not spoil it for those who haven't experienced 
 it. Many reviewers have compared it to that of a Manga or Anime, but since I personally don't have 
 much familiarity with either, I can't concur. Simply put, it's engaging and mysterious. The game 
 constantly throws curve balls, and no matter how perceptive you are, will shock you quite a few 
 times. Honestly, if you are able to guess every plot twist... well it just doesn't seem possible. 
 When the game wraps up, you'll feel like you just experienced a masterpiece, truly the best piece 
 of story I've heard in a long while.
  
  The gameplay consists mainly of solving minor puzzles, wandering from area to area meeting new 
 people, and delving deeper into the backstory. Of course there are battles, like every RPG, and 
 how many of these you partake in is mostly up to you. While there are fights required to progress, 
 you don't have to fight any further beyond that. However, the battling system is addictive and 
 extremely innovative. Players fight two battles, one on each screen at the same time (bottom screen 
 with stylus, top screen with D-Pad) . While the learning curve is semi-steep, this is to be expected 
 from such a new style. There is always more to learn about the fighting, and the game does a good 
 job of introducing new elements constantly.
  
  Graphically, TWEWY has a strong anime-esque style. For those who love animes, it will immediately 
 be appealing. I personally dislike animes, but the graphics are perfect for the DS technology. 
 Instead of trying to be life-like (and in the process becoming grainy) , the artsy graphics work 
 perfectly on the dual screens. Characters are unique, monsters are very interesting, and environments 
 just pop. Probably the most efficient graphics on DS.
  
  Onward to the sound department. This is another aspect of TWEWY that really shocked me. While the 
 sound effects are very good, the music is where this game shines. Most of the pieces (from what 
 I can tell) are originals, and range from trance techno to hip hop to pop. Personally, I'm a heavy 
 metal kind of guy. However, these songs fit perfectly with the style of the game, and I even found 
 myself addicted to some of the tunes. Needless to say, the music of TWEWY is a guilty pleasure, 
 without a doubt. Outstanding in this area too.
  
  Most professional reviews say TWEWY is short. I disagree. I put nearly 30 hours into just finishing 
 the game, and after you finish it really has only begun. You can go back to any part of the game 
 with your current stats, and try to fulfill certain conditions. Doing so unlocks more backstory, 
 which may not sound like much, but in this game it is. Once you finish, you'll probably be dying 
 to learn every little tidbit you can find about the universe so perfectly crafted in TWEWY. So, 
 as long as you don't blow through the main story (I found myself constantly battling for fun) , 
 you'll get your money's worth. I just figured I'd mention this because I know how many RPG fans 
 care about length of a game (as do I) .
  
  Overall, TWEWY feels the most like a classic since I first played Legend of Zelda: Ocarina of Time 
 or FFVII. Combining revolutionary story and battling system into one RPG, shows that JRPGs are 
 far from dead. Leave it to Square Enix to show us this, surprise surprise. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Al_Elric
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 19, 2009 9:29 am PT
Review:  The world ends with you is more then a masterpiece, it is a video game. This story is one that 
 should be retold......... . It starts out with a anti social teen named Neku , who likes to block 
 out the world with his headphones who soon finds out that he can not be heard by the crowds surrounding 
 him on the busy streets of Shybuya (a very well known city in Tokyo) . This games biggest flaw 
 is that it is too good , so good that it will make you want to play it over many times..... leading 
 to loss of friends, sleep, and eyesight. (sarcasm) . this game does not deserve a nine it deserves 
 a 11 , 10 is not even worthy of this game . dont buy chrono trigger or final fantasy IV get the 
 world ends with you , and im sure you will be happy with your descision . this games  
 difficulty are all perfect . i give this game a 10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ShadowLaguna
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 27, 2009 2:12 pm PT
Review:  Welcome to Shibuya, a huge shopping district in Tokyo, Nihon. Make sure you bring money, money, 
 more money and some pins..... and make sure you're ready to die! The reapers are about, and their 
 goal is to erase the dead. You have seven days, with every day giving you a huge task. So play 
 the game, to prevent erasion.
  
  The Nintendo DS has had a great number of releases over the 4 years of it's life, and it's showing 
 no signs of death yet. A vast number of RPGs are also available, including quite a few remakes 
 of 90's classics, but also quite a few fresh goodies. Square-Enix has highly contributed to the 
 DS library, and The World Ends With You is definitely one of their finest works on the DS so far. 
 Originally released in Japan as "It's a Wonderful World" in 2007, North America and PAL regions 
 got this great title in 2008 as "The World Ends With You". This Action RPG is one of their most 
 bizarre works yet.
  
  The storyline is very unusual, but it's fresh and easy to follow. The World Ends With You is set 
 in a modern day Tokyo, in the shopping district, Shibuya. This location has two alternate worlds. 
 The alive folk remain in the Realground (RG) , while the dead are taken to the Underground (UG) . 
 In the UG, the reapers are out to erase you. You can avoid erasion if you obey the rules of the 
 missions given to you every day. Neku Sakuraba wakes up in the UG one day, unsure of how he died. 
 He teams up with another dead person, Shiki Misaki. These two teenagers have seven days in the 
 UG, and are required to accomplish the mission given out every day. Every day, fairly interesting 
 events occur, adding a bit of detail to the story. These events can have a bit too much dialogue 
 however, and sometimes some slightly pointless bull. This isn't all a bad thing, though I've always 
 found pointless dialogue a bit tedious at times.
  
  The characters are pretty good, and they all have interesting back stories. Neku starts off as 
 an antisocial teenage boy who prefers music over life. This is initially a problem when he meets 
 Shiki for the first time. When progressing through the game, Neku opens up a bit more and cares 
 about the Reapers' Game and Shiki a lot more. Shiki is a clothes designer, and takes the form of 
 her best friend, Eri. You will also come across another pair in the game. Beat and Rhyme, who are 
 also playing the Reapers' Game. I'm not a fan of either, but they aren't bad characters. Joshua 
 is another main character, and is a suspicious fellow. The reapers vary. Some aren't my favourite 
 folk, while some are decent.
  
  Neku and his partner will be controlled through Shibuya. Within this area, missions are completed. 
 The noise are out to stop you. They are the enemies in the game. The battle system is action based, 
 and you are able to fight the noise with the pins you have equipped. There is a massive variety 
 of these pins that can be equipped to Neku to enhance his skills. The pins can also be levelled 
 up, and become more powerful. An awesome feature with these pins is that they gain exp when your 
 DS is turned off. So if you left the game for a while, then you may notice that some EXP has been 
 given to your equipped pins. Your partner takes up the top screen while Neku takes up the bottom. 
 The partner's actions can be controllers with the D-Pad. Neku also has an ability to read the minds 
 of the people walking through the district. In order to do this, you have to go into scan mode. 
 In scan mode, you are also able to come across noise which can be seen in this state. Simply touch 
 the noise to fight them.
  
  In the UG, you are practically invisible to all except for your partner, the reapers, and when 
 you enter shops. Occasionally, you will be able to play with the minds of certain people who aren't 
 able to see you, and you can help them with their problems in these events. There are certain ways 
 to do this: You can find certain quotes from others and stick it in their head, you can answer 
 questions with a little mini-game or you can defeat noise around them to clear their minds of negativity. 
 Speaking of mini-games, there is one which is available later on in the game. Tin-Pin. You use 
 your equipped pins, and fight it out with your opponent. But wait, it's not a regular battle. You 
 control your pin with the touch screen, and the objective is to knock out your opponent's pins. 
 It's an alright game, but it will entertain you. Overall, the gameplay is very good, and will definitely 
 hook you to your DS.
  
  The controls are pretty good, and it's one of the best uses of the touch screen. Most of the gameplay 
 is touch-screen based. Outside of battle, you have a choice between the touch screen of the regular 
 buttons for movement. In battle, Neku is controlled with the touch screen, while his partner is 
 controllers with the D-Pad. The pins all have a different way of using the DS features too. Another 
 thing worth mentioning is the saving. You are able to save anywhere you go, which has always been 
 great for RPGs. I've always hated it when games only have one save file. Sadly, that's the case 
 with TWEWY. In order to start a new file, you have to wipe the previous file, or else you are unable 
 to start the game. So be careful when creating a new file. I used to have so many incidents regarding 
 one file saves in Pokemon.
  
  Graphics on the DS has always either been 2D or 3D. Sometimes even both. The World Ends With You 
 is fully 2D, and actually looks quite good. If you're thinking something along the lines of "Oh 
 brother, another DS game that looks though it's more GBA-worthy", think again my friend. These 
 2D graphics would not suit the GBA, and is probably too powerful for the GBA to handle anyway. 
 The 2D is very well done in TWEWY, and the artwork by Tetsuya Normura (FFVII, VIII, X and KH) looks 
 great! I've always liked Nomura's art, though this is coming from an anime fan. If you are a fan 
 of the artwork from Yoshitaka Amano (FFI-VI and IX) and simply hate Nomura's work, then TWEWY won't 
 change your mind. Due to me being a fan of both artists (though Toriyama beats them both in my 
 opinion) , I quite enjoy the graphics. There is one downside to these graphics. When your characters 
 come closer on the screen, they get a bit pixellated and blurry. That aside, definitely some of 
 the best 2D i've seen on the DS.
  
  I really don't know what to say about the soundtrack. It has a similarity to Persona 3's music. 
 At first, I thought it was decent. There was a variety of rock, pop and dance during the first 
 Chapter. But then once I got further into the game (about the second and third chapters) , rap and 
 hip-hop came in. My two worst music genres. This is a huge downside to the soundtrack. Nevertheless, 
 there are some pretty groovy tracks which are worth plugging in your headphones for. Two of my 
 favourite tracks in the game are "Calling" and "Long Dream". Voices aren't entirely absent, there 
 are a few times when you hear words from the main characters, but the dialogue is mainly text. 
 I have no problems with this at all, seeing as I'm not a fan of English VA in RPGs.
  
  The World Ends With You is a great Action-RPG for the Nintendo DS, and is most certainly a worthy 
 purchase. Despite the overload of my two worst music genres, It is addictive, and very interesting. 
 It is definitely one of Square-Enix's finest DS works so far. Let's just hope we haven't seen the 
 last of the Reapers.
  8.8/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: vvdp
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 10, 2009 4:27 pm PT
Review:  The modern theme combined with epic storyline and great controls make this game the best DS game 
 on the market.
  
  The world ends with you.
  
  story : 9.0
  controls :10.0
  visuals :10.0
  length :10.0
  use of ds capabilaties : 11.0
  
  I wil review the story because 
 that was what the game is al about.
  
  Story:
  
  The storyline of TWEWY is fantastic is has a modren day look, and the characters a simply astiounding. 
 The characters are also quite realistic (apart from that they can do magic and stuff) the have 
 problems, for instance neku ( the main character) won't even be nice or talk to his partner (instead 
 of other RPG's where the characters are al best friends wilhlst destroying the enemy's) . The story 
 is long but not lagging al tho somtines the running place to place can get a tad iritating 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MegandDia128
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 9, 2009 7:38 am PT
Review:  The world ends with you is an RPG that is made by the same people who made Kingdom Hearts. You 
 may have heard that the game is freaking hard and the fact that you control both the top and bottom 
 screen in combat sounds overwhelming. The honest truth is that controling both screens is not as 
 hard as you think as a matter of fact the battle system is so well set up that there really is 
 no flaw in using the top and bottom screen. The system does take time to get used to using the 
 stylus to attack but unlike some games square does and exellent job at exucuting great controls. 
 The story is something new to you are sent into a world and Neku your main character has no clue 
 how he got there, he finds out that he is stuck in a game and must fight against these creatures 
 calleld The Noise. if he does not beat the game in seven days he will be ereased. another thing 
 that I like is the Characters are well developed to. While sometimes the main character can be 
 very annoying. The main character has an ego that really makes him unique. The one thing that I 
 am trying to figure out is the reason that everybody says the music is great, I'm guessing that 
 it is because it really has a distinct sound from other RPG music, but it is just not appealing 
 to me. It sounds alittle to hip-hoppy. anybody must try out this game. Squarefans, Kingdom Hearts 
 Fans, Final Fantasy Fans, and even RPG Fans or of any other Genre. I never played this game until 
 a couple days before this was written but this game has got to be one of the top releases of 2008. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mary9332003
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 7, 2009 4:33 am PT
Review:  TWEWY, as The World Ends With You is called by some fans, is an absolutely amazing game. 
  
  Square Enix is known for Final Fantasy, Dragon Quest, and Kingdom Hearts, but those genres 
 can be topped easily by Square Enix. 
  
  TWEWY, on the other hand, is entirely unique and a fantastic addition to the RPGs that MUST be 
 played. 
  Why? Because of it's many wonderful features.
  
  Gameplay: The Stride Cross Battle System uses both screens to battle the same set of monsters, 
 uniquely allowing the player to use the touch screen to control the main character and the buttons 
 to completely annihilate the monsters, with your partner in the top screen, your stylus can't seem 
 to beat down with the pins you have.
  
  Graphics: The backgrounds of Shibuya stylized into some very attractive, youthful graffiti art 
 works very well with the themes revolving in the game. They also compliment each of the characters 
 quite well, because the characters all seem to belong, no matter how spunky or plain they look.
 
  
  Music: Strange techno with Japanese-accented English vocals.
  What more can you say? You either love it or it stays in your head until you're hypnotized by it. 
 It works really well with the stylized Shibuya backgrounds, as shown when you enter battle and 
 seem to naturally expect music and monster bashing sound effects to harmonize.
  
  Storyline: Although the game is so heavily influenced by Japan's culture, the translations came 
 out pretty well, and as a result, it has a commendable plot with all the drama that a Western audience 
 can relate to. 
  
  All in all, (well, at least all of which I believe makes up TWEWY) The World Ends With You is a 
 huge step forward into INNOVATIVE and ENJOYABLE RPGs for the DS. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GabuEx
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 7, 2009 12:31 am PT
Review:  Every now and then a game comes along that profoundly touches me in a way that really can't be 
 explained adequately in words, and The World Ends With You is the latest to have done so. This 
 is not the first time that such has happened, but it is certainly the first time that a handheld 
 game has been the cause - which speaks volumes both about how far handhelds have come and about 
 how much of a masterwork the folks at Square Enix and Jupiter have created.
  
  The story in The World Ends With You is by far its strongest feature, as it carefully straddles 
 the line between extremely compelling and outright confusing without ever falling too far on the 
 latter side of the fence. I won't go too much into detail about the story because just about anything 
 would be a spoiler - the game is designed to provide the best experience the little one knows about 
 what to expect out of the story. A large part of the absolute joy of the game is unraveling the 
 numerous mysteries within it that all come together to form a cohesive, satisfying whole by the 
 end of the game. The characters in the story are also well done and add to the story as well, being 
 interesting, yet not over the top, and memorable, yet not cliche either.
  
  The story isn't the only stroke of brilliance in the game, however - the list of things that aren't 
 strokes of brilliance would undoubtedly be a shorter list. The gameplay as well is extremely unique, 
 and once mastered, works quite well to provide an engaging experience. The battle system is almost 
 always in two parts - your main character on the bottom screen and his partner at the top. Your 
 main character fights using psychic abilities endowed upon him through pins, which are controlled 
 entirely with the stylus, whereas your partner fights using a combo system controlled with the 
 arrow buttons or ABXY buttons. Each enemy you fight appears on both screens and share a life bar, 
 and your characters essentially pummel on them in unison - but you share a life bar as well, so 
 you can't get too complacent. If you control your partner well enough, you can also unlock fusion 
 attacks where you and your partner combine their attacks for massive damage to the enemies as well 
 as a good amount of HP recovery - often crucial to victory in longer battles.
  
  The game offers four difficulty levels in total, with the interesting fact that any other than 
 "normal" must be unlocked throughout the course of the game. The difficulty can be changed at any 
 time and takes effect immediately - and can even be toned down upon retrying a lost battle, which 
 is a very neat feature, as it can save a player from a lot of frustration if he or she enters a 
 battle underleveled for the current difficulty level. Toning the difficulty level down makes battles 
 easier, but it also makes enemies give much fewer goodies, so there's ample incentive to keep it 
 high, too.
  
  The game isn't only battles, though, and the game features the standard traversable environment, 
 where players walk the streets of the city in which the game is set looking for their next goal. 
 A welcome component of the game is that there are no random battles entered just from walking around, 
 so if you don't feel like fighting any battles, you can feel free not to do so for as long as you 
 like (although never fighting any battles will inevitably make boss battles very difficult) . There's 
 a good deal of interaction on the overworld, from interacting with other characters to solving 
 some mild puzzles, which all comes together to keep the game fresh and interesting.
  
  There are tons of stores littered throughout town, and an interesting feature in the game is that, 
 as you buy things from them, you become better friends with the person in charge of the store. 
 The better your friendship, the more you can learn about equipment's special abilities, and the 
 more items you can buy from the store, as well.
  
  There are a number of other facets of gameplay that could be mentioned here as well - the game 
 is surprisingly detailed, although the detail can be ignored without too much penalty if you wish 
 - but it's much easier to just give it my blanket approval. The game explains its ins and outs 
 very well as the game progresses and more options are available to the player.
  
  The soundtrack is of particular note, as well, as its composer took some very obvious risks and 
 bold choices in piecing it together. It's a peculiar mishmash of trance, hip-hop, and rock, which 
 sounds very strange on paper, but which comes together to form a downright brilliant and engaging 
 musical score. The game also has a fair bit of voice acting, and while it's nothing to scream about, 
 it gets the job done well enough, and there are a number of lines said during battle that are particularly 
 memorable.
  
  All in all, The World Ends With You is an extremely understated gem that deserves much more recognition 
 than it's received thus far. It's easily the best game from 2008 that I played, and I cannot stress 
 enough how highly I recommend it to anyone looking for an impeccably designed RPG for the DS. It's 
 simply marvelous. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Draliew
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 5, 2009 11:33 am PT
Review:  I have had this game for about since it came out.
  Its is very fun, addicting, and the difficulty is just perfect.
  This game in very well designed.
 
  
  Fun: 9.9
  Addicting:10.0
  Graphics:8.0
  Sound:9.8
  Creative {not like another DS game} :10.0
 No Bad Words": 5.0 {IT HAS ALOT}
  
  The first 
 day I got this game I played it for a whole 5 hrs.
  It is very action-full and actually does have some touching moments. It has some {as parents would 
 say"bad words"}
  in it but most kids have already heard them 1,000 times and ignore them {just like me} . Whatever 
 you do dont use 
  Action Replay Code Manage on this game because its pretty boring using cheats cause you are always 
 invincible and it takes down the fun of the game. I think I would recommend this game for kids who 
 like adventure games.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: MightyZagaro
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 4, 2009 3:53 pm PT
Review:  Every now and then, a totally unexpected sleeper hit comes straight out of left field. This is 
 one of those times. The World Ends With You, is, in a word, amazing in ways you couldn't believe 
 for a handheld game. I'll admit when I first heard about it, it didn't sound like something I would 
 like, but BOY was I wrong. From the second I picked it up, I couldn't put it down.
  
  Graphics: 9/10
  
  Wow. They're pretty. No, really. WEWY feels very much like a comic book, 
 only it's much better than a comic book. The art is very well done, and even the inbattle graphics 
 are very fast, fluid, and animated very well. My only gripe is that the field sprites seem semi-choppy, 
 but that can be overlooked.
  
  Sound: 15/10
  
  How the CRAP did they do it?! They really went the extra mile here. Many of the songs have lyrics, 
 and the coolest thing is that random music plays, so you're never hearing the same thing for too 
 long. Some of the most epic sound in a video game ever.
  
  Gameplay: 10/10
  
  Here's where things get REALLY interesting and diffrent. Basically, Neku fights with a variety 
 of pins, which can be anything from a sword attack to pyrokenesis to a downwards stab to a beam 
 attack. These pins will level up and maybe even upgrade to better pins of the same class using 
 PP, a stat separate from EXP that is gained in the same manner [killing stuff] WEWY also lets you 
 control your partner with the D-pad/ABYX buttons at the same time you're controlling Neku. It seems 
 complicated, and at first, it really is. But after you fight a few battles, it'll make perfect 
 sense and you'll be wiping enemies all over the field in no time. There's also the food system. 
 You feed your characters food items, and as you fight battles, they'll digest it and their stats 
 will increase. Oh, and WEWY has a very nice difficulty setting. At times, even Normal mode bosses 
 will make you RAAGE, but thankfully, the game gives you the option to fight the same battle on 
 Easy mode if you're REALLY throwing a fit over a certian boss. It's very veteran and newbie friendly, 
 so everybody can enjoy this game.
  
  Story: 10/10
  
  The story's pretty interesting. Neku, an antisocial kid living in Shibuya, Japan wakes up to find 
 a mysterious pin that lets him read people's thoughts in his hand. Suddenly, he is ordered to go 
 to 104 [a popular store in Shibuya] via phone mail. Disregarding the message as spam, he tries 
 to delete it but cannot. All of a sudden, frogs attack him! Neku calls for help, but nobody responds, 
 so he runs. As he retreats, he is confronted by a girl named Shiki who tells him that if they pact, 
 they defeat the frog. Shortly after this, Neku learns that he was transported an alternate Shibuya 
 called "The Underground" for reasons he can't remember. It sounds kind of stupid, but trust me, 
 it's not. I just gave you the basic jist of it, the actual story is a LOT better with some very 
 colorful, likable characters.
  
  Replay: 10/10 to 0/10
  
  Well... it depends on what you mean by replay. If you go for the postgame, there's all sorts of 
 cool goodies to find, and it's going to take you quite a while to collect all of them! If you intend 
 to get every single thing in the game, you're going to be spending a LOT of time on it. However, 
 once you get everything on your file.... there's not much of a reason to keep playing, sadly.
  
  Overall: 10/10
  
  One of the best DS games so far, and one of the best games ever. Buy 
 it! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ZXPegasus_exe
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 3, 2009 10:28 am PT
Review:  When you hear Square Enix, you'd almost automatically go for Final Fantasy, Kingdom Hearts and 
 Dragon Quest but this is someethig absolutely fresh and more relative to youth culture than Squares 
 other titles will ever be.
  
  Story: 
  Set on the Fashion Trendy streets of Shibuya, Tokyo, The story is about a Teenage Kid named Neku 
 Sakuraba. Generally, he's not sociable, likes to stick to himself and doesn't let people in. Now, 
 one day he killed whilst out looking at his favourite piece of graffiti, however, he doesn't remember 
 how he was killed. Thats not even the worst part. Neku has now been thrust into a game by the Reapers 
 (think Grim Reapers except more 'street') known as the 'Reapers Game'. He now has 7 days to prove 
 himself and beat the game's master whilst surviving the week to get his life back. But, the Noise 
 will be out to get him and so will evey Reaper on the Block. You 'make' some friends along the 
 way who will help you fight the noise such as Shiki, Joshua and Beat but it's going to take alot 
 more to beat the game master as Neku does't want to open up to his newfound friends and the GM's 
 aren't easy. will you be able to save your own life or will the fact that you don't like people 
 be your downfall into erasure?
  
  Characters (Main, not all) :
  
  Neku Sakuraba-Games Protagonist
  Shiki Misaki
  Yoshiya 'Joshua' Kiryu
  Daisukenoji 'Beat' 
 Bito
  Raimu 'Rhyme' Bito
  
  Megumi Kitaniji
  Sho Minamimoto
  
  Gameplay:
  The games control are 90% stylus, 10% D-pad. Neku can be controlled with the stylus or the D-pad 
 when walking in the overworld of shibuya but in battle neku is controlled by the stylus. Now when 
 you meet the other characters you'll get to play with 3 of them Shiki, Joshua & Beat at different 
 times. They are controlled with the D-pad. in battle you battle the noise on both screens but they 
 are connected in that the noise share their hp in both screens meaning if neku defeats a noise 
 on his screen its destroyed on the other. however it also means you share hp with your other character 
 so if you or your (sloppy, A. I. controlled) partner dies then thats it for both of you. now, you've 
 probably never played a game where you have to be so co-ordinted as such to fight with the Stylus 
 and the D-Pad at the same time, but the game makes it easy to get used to the controls. in the 
 games menu you can set the secondary characters control to 'auto' meaning they are a. i. controlled, 
 very slopply, but making it easier for you to focus on neku. as you gradually get better you'll 
 be able to control both cahracters with the simplest of ease. your in-battle attacks are done through 
 the pins you equip ont yourself which have many effect such as: dropping mini-meteors on your enemy, 
 shooting lightning from your palms, or act like your typlce sword. your equipment comes in the 
 form of 'threads' (Not like the internet threads) these are clothes that you can wear that increase 
 your: Hp, Attack, Defense and come with other various effects such as an extra attack boost or 
 immoblizing enemies at the start of battle. the gameplay is omepletly new, fresh and the enemies 
 are intersting. the noise are like animals with tribal designs for some limbs and all of them will 
 harm you.
  
  Music 
  The soundtrack is wone that is ver memoable and will leave you singing it throughout. A fresh combo 
 of J-pop, rock, and Hip-Hop makes the gameplay experience even better. you can also buy cd's of 
 the soundtrack in-game (these act as a small sound test) and you can select a track to play every 
 time you open the menu. the music and the sounds couldnt' make this game any better.
  
  In all, the game leaves you wanting more, and with another alternate scenario and extra 'reports' 
 to unlock that reveal more about the game there's so much to do and you will spend time on this 
 game but its well worth it. 
  
  Definite add to the collection if you are a DS owner. if you see it don't pass it up.
  
  Rating: 
 10/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GuitarAmp58
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 31, 2008 5:31 pm PT
Review:  For weeks after The Word Ends With You was released, I would look at in in the store, but never 
 bought it. I finally decided one day to buy it, and I am so happy that I did. I have never spent 
 so much time playing a handheld game before.
  
  Story: The story is amazing, there are so many twist and cliffhangers that kept me hooked. Some 
 people say that this game is less like a game and more like an interactive movie, but I say, if 
 the story is good enough, who cares.
  
  Music: This game features a lot of great music, the variation in music is nice, and it doesn't 
 get old like some games.
  
  Gameplay: The gameplay is the most innovative of any RPG on the DS. Using over 300 pins all with 
 different abilities to defeat your enemies is amazing and there are so many different sets that 
 you can use. I like that there are limits to how many of certain types of pins you can have on 
 one deck, this makes it impossible to have a "uber" deck. You are able to change your level through 
 the menu, lowering your level lowers your HP and makes battling enemies harder, but it also increases 
 your drop rate, allowing you to get items from enemies easier. Also, once you get further into 
 the game, you are able to change the difficulty of battles. There are four different difficulties 
 however, one can only be obtained after you finish the game.
  
  Replay Value: This game has an interesting feature. Once you complete the game, it unlocks a mode 
 where you can play the game from any chapter you want, this allows you to try to get everything 
 in the game, or just play your favorite part over again.
  
  I highly recommend this game, it is an amazing DS experience. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dudeglove
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 31, 2008 1:48 am PT
Review:  If ever there was a reason to buy a Nintendo DS - this is it. Riding the back of the incredibly 
 disappointing Final Fantasy III rehash for the DS, The World End With You is a marked improvement 
 and, more importantly, a welcome departure from the traditional swords, staves n' magic typical 
 of Square Enix's RPGs. 
  
  Rather than taking place in a galaxy far, far away, The World Ends With You is set in modern day 
 Tokyo. TWEWY follows Neku, a loner misanthrope who drowns out the world around him with his headphones, 
 but one day Neku finds himself waking up in the middle of Tokyo's Shibuya crossing (that famous 
 crossroad everyone has probably seen on TV or in the movies but never knew its name) , seemingly 
 unable to interact with the crowd at all, and to top it all off, there's a massive sign telling 
 him he has seven days left as well as a countdown timer imprinted on his hand. Little does Neku 
 know that he is now the latest contestant in the Reapers' Game, not dissimilar to a Dante-esque 
 purgatory, and if he doesn't complete today's mission, he gets erased from existence altogether. 
 That is, of course, if he can first fight his way through the 'Noise' that now prowl the streets 
 of Shibuya picking off the game's other players.
  
  It's an engaging introduction, almost worthy of J. J. Abrams, and the quick pace of action entices 
 you further into Neku's story and the goings-on in Shibuya. A fantastic J-pop soundtrack mixes 
 with an accentuated neo-graffitist visual style that sets the game completely apart from any RPGs 
 out there - though there is a slight nostalgic feel to the decade-old SNES game Shadowrun, but 
 it's more street punk than cyber punk. 
  
  TWEWY builds upon what Nintendo did with Zelda: Phantom Hourglass, which only used the DS stylus 
 for control and combat (a mixture up taps and twirls) . Outside of combat, dragging the stylus around 
 the screen guides Neku around Shibuya, but during fights nearly every physical aspect of the DS 
 is used. Soon into the game your first partner, another Shibuya girl called Shiki, joins you and 
 together the two of you fight off the Noise. On the top screen you control Shiki with the d-pad 
 for dodging, jumping and attacking, while Neku fights on the lower touch screen. Neku's attacks 
 are triggered either by slashing (close up combo strikes on the enemy for example) , scratching 
 rapidly (set off an earthquake) , dragging (a path of flames appears) , tapping (firing projectiles) , 
 drawing circles (a big rock falls in the area you drew) or even blowing into the microphone (make 
 a tornado appear) depending on which pins you're wearing. Pins are Neku's weapons, which, aside 
 from being a fashion statement, contain the 'psychs' you fight with. Indeed, fashion does play 
 a role in the game, containing about a dozen different brands. Some tasks even involve you having 
 to accommodate to the local trend of a Shibuya district in order to proceed. Likewise, matching 
 Neku's pins to the area gives attack bonuses, while going against the trend has negative effects.
 
  
  Although this idea of having to switch between both the screens and control methods in combat AND 
 monitoring your pins to make sure you're getting the most out of them seems nightmarish, TWEWY 
 doesn't penalize you for thinking so. You can allow the competent AI to take over Shiki and concentrate 
 your own efforts on the bottom screen making sure Neku is attacking the right Noise. Defeating 
 a Noise on one screen eliminates it on both, so you rarely need to worry early on in the game about 
 what's happening on the top screen. Indeed, if you like, you hardly need to fight at all during 
 this game. There are no incessant random encounters like in Final Fantasy, nor is there any impetus 
 to constantly refer to your menu in order to customize your equipment. You can alter the game's 
 difficulty until you get the hang of everything, and even if you do there's no penalty on the final 
 outcome of the game. You'll lose out on acquiring the more powerful pins, but on the flip side 
 racking up the difficulty reaps huge bonuses. In other words, you can choose the learning curve 
 to suit your own style. Once you've actually finished TWEWY, which may take about 20-30 hours (albeit 
 most of it is dialogue) , you can go back over any chapter you want in search of bonus items, so 
 there is huge replay value available unlike with the Final Fantasy series. 
  
  The World Ends With You is a fantastic game, irrespective of both its title and its relatively 
 underpowered platform. Those who have been waiting for quite some time for Nintendo to breach the 
 cutesy veneer of quick-fire videogames into those of lasting experience won't be disappointed. 
 A selection of memorable characters both good and bad distracts from the fairly limited character 
 animations, but you are never left with any loose ends in plot development. What TWEWY shows is 
 the technical prowess the machine is capable of and, ultimately, that the DS, in spite of its size, 
 is perfectly able at giving the public some of the best games they will ever play. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mull20641
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 30, 2008 5:54 pm PT
Review:  Imagine. You wake up one day in the middle of a busy street. There aren't any cars, just people. 
 You get up and realise your'e in a shopping mall. Which is strange. All you know is your name for 
 you cannot remember anything else. And weirdest of all no one even seems to realise that your'e 
 there. Suddenly you are attacked by frogs, yes frogs. What is going on? That's what happens one 
 day to Neku. A 14 year old who doesn't seem to understand how other people work. Confused, Neku 
 is forced to team up with Shiki, A girl his age. He slowly starts to realise he is in a different 
 world and without Shiki he won't be able to survive it.
  
  The World Ends With You uses a gameplay method that I have never seen before. If you want to survive 
 you have to learn to control both you and Shiki at the same time. But it doesn't have to be that 
 difficult. One character will always be surrounded by green light. I reccomend you use that player 
 for fighting. When the puck of light changes you should switch characters.
  
  Another aspect of the game is the huge amount of music. There's hours of music you can listen to 
 while walking around. Like any other square enix game as you follow the player on his journey there 
 are quite emotional scenes.
  
  All in all I have to say that the best part about The World Ends With You is the story. I assure 
 you that this game will keep you guessing.
  
  It is in my opinion that if you don't already have this game than get it. NOW!!!
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: MadSomeone
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 26, 2008 12:09 pm PT
Review:  When we first heard about The World Ends With You (under its Japanese title of It's A Wonderful 
 World) , we thought it looked a bit bonkers. Set in real-life Shibuya with a story based on alternate 
 worlds, it sounded like it was going to be a bit of a brain-melter. Now we've got our hands on 
 an English version and can actually understand it, we're happy to report that what we once thought 
 was insanity is actually extremely clever.
  
  The main selling point of the game is its unique battle system, which sees your two main characters 
 fighting the same sets of spiritual enemies (known as Noise) on each screen at the same time. Although 
 the battles are separate, the enemies are linked so if you kill a wolf on one screen it dies on 
 the other screen too. The fighting system isn't turn-based; all the action happens in real-time. 
 However, the twist is that you control both fights at the same time.
  
  On the bottom screen you control Neku's battles using the touch screen, where different moves can 
 be assigned to him and performed using various taps and strokes on the screen (and even blows on 
 the microphone) . Meanwhile, Shiki is controlled on the top screen by using the D-Pad to enter button 
 combinations that trigger her attacks. The key to successful combat is keeping an eye on both screens 
 and attacking where necessary.
  
  This control system does take a little getting used to. Entering D-Pad combinations while using 
 the touch screen at the same time is a bit like patting your head and rubbing your belly, but once 
 you've taken part in a few battles it soon becomes manageable. The only minor problem is that the 
 game sometimes struggles to work out which move you're trying to perform on the touch screen.
 
  
  For example, if one move involves swiping the stylus over an enemy to attack them and another involves 
 swiping it over a piece of scenery to throw it, if an enemy is standing near a piece of scenery 
 it's pretty much pot luck which you activate. And since Neku is also controlled by dragging with 
 the stylus, if he happens to be standing near the enemy and scenery then you could end up making 
 him run across the screen instead of attacking.
  
  Although the above situation isn't exactly a regular scenario, it happens often enough to warrant 
 being mentioned in this review, and since the game involves fighting two battles at once, if you 
 spend too much time trying to make the bottom screen work you're leaving your character wide open 
 to attack on the top screen.
  
  
  Out Of This World
  Don't be under the impression that this is a bad game, however. This isn't the case in the slightest. 
 The story is fantastic, the character design is stunning (they were created by the genius responsible 
 for the characters in Kingdom Hearts and Final Fantasy X) , and with its eclectic mix of Japanese 
 hip-hop, rock, pop and techno music it sounds better than almost any DS game we've played. The 
 hand-drawn graphics make the game feel like you're playing an animated manga comic and the game 
 just oozes class from start to finish.
  
  The battle system is fine for the most part, as long as you make sure that you don't assign moves 
 that have similar control methods to avoid frustration. It's just a shame that a niggly thing like 
 that is the only blotch on an otherwise great game.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Xnexsys
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 24, 2008 1:33 am PT
Review:  You start off in the middle of a busy intersection... wait, what?
  I detect no RPG cliches in my game! Yes, TWEWY is a game that is innovative and just plain awesome 
 that deserved more hype compared to other Nintendo system games.
  
  === Game play ===
  Unlike most RPGs TWEWY drops the overused command-based battle system in favor of something that 
 is actually original. In this game you will mainly use the stylus to play similar to Ninja Gaiden, 
 PKMN Ranger, and M64. Attacks are executed by performing actions with the stylus  
 However that's only half the battle. In the game battle is split into two parts using the top and 
 bottom screens. On the top you can control your characters partner using the d-pad. To upgrade 
 your attacks you have to collect "pins" - items that grant new abilities - in the game. The daunting 
 fact of controlling 2 characters simultaneously in real-time may make it a little challenging to 
 new gamers however the compute does a fairly decent job controlling you partner.
  
  === Graphics ===
  The graphics are very impressive considering it's on a hand held system. The 
 graphics seems to have a unique charm to it - like Okami - however it might be a little of a put-down 
 that it is a little too reminiscent of Kingdom Hearts characters.
  
  === Audio ===
  This is my most favorite part of the game. Music. The tracks in the game add to the urban youth 
 and Japanese culture from the game. They consist of mainly J-Pop and Rock with the occasional hip-hop 
 added. Quality is great enough to the point you'll feel like someone's playing music while you 
 traverse Shibuya.
  
  === Story ===
  This is where it kinda gets bumpy. It's a nice relief that instead of having to save X from Y because 
 Z, starting a new game will immediately thrust you into game play without and backstory. Instead 
 as the game progresses you both develop the character but also find out about his back story and 
 his place in the world. The dialogue can get a bit lengthy since you can't skip it.
  
  === In Conclusion ===
  TWEWY is a gaming gem and I certainly wouldn't pass up the chance to get 
 it. Its innovation and design will certainly keep it in your DS for a while.
  
  9.2/10 Gameplay
  9.4/10 Graphics
  10.0/10 Audio
  8.8/10 Story
  9.4/10 Overall 
::::::

::::::
UserName: zobi123
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 21, 2008 1:07 pm PT
Review:  What is it?
  The World Ends With You is the newest RPG released by the Kingdom Hearts Team and Jupiter, a handheld 
 development company that has assisted with the development since the Game Boy days. The game defies 
 all typical RPG staples and opts for a modern setting in the real-life district of Shibuya, Tokyo. 
 The story revolves around a 15 year-old boy, named Neku, as he is plunged into a game of survival 
 with one simple rule. Pass the missions or face erasure.
  
  Gameplay: 10/10
  The game takes all the traditions you'd expect of Japanese RPGs and throws them out the window. 
 Gone is the traditional turn-based system, and even the modern Action systems that have come to 
 be somewhat cliched. You spend the game completing objectives given to you by the Reapers, the 
 strange group that runs the game. Generally speaking, these missions can be as simple as defeating 
 a few enemies, called Noise, or as complicated as getting a particular piece of fashion to be popular 
 in a section of Shibuya. Also added into the mix of these missions is influencing the behavior 
 of many of the NPCs that stroll throughout the streets. These NPCs, not being able to see the protagonists, 
 are susceptible to psychic "memes" that can be imprinted into their minds, which sometimes can 
 lead to humorous outcomes, many involving one poor sap's futile efforts to make a red colored pin 
 popular.
  The main meat of the game, however, is it's battle system, which doesn't disappoint. Baring the 
 true spirit of a DS game, TWEWY has it's own unique battle system that uses both screens to control 
 Neku and his current partner.
  It may seem convoluted at first, with having to keep an eye on both screens as danger comes from 
 all angles, but it works surprisingly well. The game even eases you into the system, rather than 
 throwing you into the thick of battle at a moments notice, but doesn't hold your hand so much that 
 you'd grow tired of tutorials. At the 3rd mission in, you're all by yourself and ready to take 
 on the Noise. Of course, if you're not up to the task, the game is willing to help by taking control 
 of the character on the top screen. Why then, control them yourself? Simply put, you miss out on 
 the powerful Fusion attacks that come with the combo mini-game each partner has, all of which are 
 unique.
  Shiki's consists of a simple game of memory, where you try to match the correct combo to face-down 
 cards on the top of her screen, while Joshua's consists of a game of High and Low, where you attempt 
 to get a number higher, lower, or equal to the one currently highlighted at the top of the screen. 
 Lastly, Beat's game consists of matching card pairs to earn your fusion stars and encourages setting 
 up chain reactions to multiply the number of stars you receive. Once you have at least 4, you can 
 unleash a devastating attack on both screens and replenish a bit of HP. So it doesn't hurt to get 
 good at these systems, as it can spell victory against some of the tougher enemies. As you attack, 
 a green orb called a "light puck" is transferred back in forth between the two characters as well, 
 and serves the purpose of powering up their attack. Successful combos lead to passing it to the 
 other, and keeping the puck going back and forth can multiply the damage you deal up to 4x, so 
 it's beneficial to develop a rhythm for fights. Also included in the gameplay are an extensive 
 fashion system and a food system. Certain fashions are popular in different parts of Shibuya; wear 
 the right ones and you get a nice boost in battle, but wear the wrong ones and your attack is cut. 
 However, you can easily remedy this by fighting a few fights with the gimped equipment; making 
 it possible to turn Shibuya's fashion scene into your very own. Besides wearing clothes to boost 
 your stats, you can also eat food to give yourself a PERMANENT boost. However, it's best to be 
 wise when you pick your food, because if a character dislikes it, they'll take longer to digest 
 it. Wait, digest it? Yes, you have to digest food before you get the effects, and this is done 
 through working it off through battle. To further your obsession, the game also only allows you 
 24 bites in a single day, so you can't just stuff yourself with food. Of course, there's an infinite 
 bite item that you can buy in the post-game, but obtaining that will take quite a bit of work in 
 itself.
  
  Music: 10/10
  The music in the game is made up of the kind you'd actually expect to hear in a setting such as 
 Shibuya. Yes, that means the music isn't the traditional epic fare you hear in a RPG, but rather 
 a mix of Techno, Pop, Hip-hop, Rock, and Trance set up with sometimes odd, but always addicting 
 lyrics. You know you're in for a good soundtrack when the game's opening movie kicks off with Twister, 
 which will continue to rear its head throughout the game with various remixes in both English and 
 Japanese. Each chapter of the game has its own track list that will play during the overworld and 
 battles, which you would think could become repetitive. But for some reason, the music is just 
 too good to get old. Even the various rap songs, which is a genre I'm known to hate, are pleasant 
 to the ears. Just be sure to bring some headphones, because some people might give you some looks 
 when the game busts out Hybrid.
  
  Story:9.5/10
  The story, once again, isn't the traditional RPG fare. This means players are in for something 
 fresh and new, which is certainly welcome in the over-saturated JRPG world. Like was stated before, 
 the story follows Neku as he plays through "The Game", and starts with Neku waking up in the middle 
 of Shibuya's scramble cross, not remembering anything about himself other than his name. He also 
 discovers that he can read the minds of other people around him, with the use of a strange pin 
 he finds upon his awakening. From there, he meets up with a girl named Shiki, who explains that 
 they're both players in a fight to live. The Reapers hold all the cards, and Neku will have to 
 complete their missions if he wants to survive for another day. Neku, sadly, is somewhat of a cliche 
 at the beginning; as he's the traditional apathetic teen that couldn't give a crap about anyone 
 other than himself. However, the story's main focus is on the change of his outlook on life, and 
 he ends up being quite the likable character by chapter 1's end. Other than Shiki, Neku also encounters 
 Joshua, Beat, and Rhyme, 3 other players, and the Reapers themselves. Whether it be the new and 
 rather ditzy Yashiro, or the cold and calculating Konishi, the Reapers play the role of villains 
 well, and it's oh so satisfying when you finally get to lay a beat down on them.
  The game also introduces players to the most amazing math nerd ever, Sho Minamimoto. The guy is 
 grade A nut, and provides for some of the best moments of the story, especially his interactions 
 with Joshua.
  
  Graphics:8/10
  As the screenshots have already told, the game uses sprite work to portray the characters. While 
 not the best we've seen on the DS, the character sprites are still well done and very animated. 
 As it seems to be popular these days as well, the backgrounds are generally 3D and pop-out, adding 
 a dynamic look to Shibuya.
  
  Controls:10/10
  TWEWY is probably one of the only DS games to actually use the system to its fullest potential, 
 without seeming like it was tacked on. The player controls Neku with the touch screen and uses 
 various gestures to activate his "psych" attacks; ranging from an energy slash to shooting a stream 
 of lightning across the screen. These psychs are activated through pins, which you equip to Neku, 
 and all have their own specific touch command, and some even include shouting or blowing into the 
 mic. The d-pad (or ABXY buttons) is regulated to the combo input for Neku's partner up the top screen. 
 The longer the combo, the more damage it deals.
  
  Replayability: 8/10
  For a JRPG, the game has a surprising amount of content to keep you going long after you've erased 
 the last boss. Extras include secret reports that you can find by replaying chapters and fulfilling 
 certain requirements. Also is the Tin Pin Slammer minigame, which has you and other players shooting 
 pins at one another in hopes of knocking them out and gaining points. That's about as much as the 
 multiplayer goes, but it's a fun diversion none the less.
  The game also caters to those who love to max things out, with a total of 304 pins to collect in 
 the game. Some must be obtained through evolving, which requires specific PP (Pin Points) when leveling 
 up. That's right, even your pins level up, and there's 3 different kinds of PP: Battle, Shutdown (PP 
 given for the amount of time you WEREN'T playing the game) , and Mingle PP (obtained through the 
 game's mingle mode, which also opens up new shops that sell the equipment the people you connected 
 with have) . I must admit I was addicted to leveling these pins and evolving them, and it's what 
 kept me from finishing the game sooner. Even now, I still turn on the game to find the secret reports 
 and level up my pins some more. It's that addicting.
  
  Overall: 10/10 (Not an average)
  Some people would disagree with me giving this a 10, or any game for that matter. Well, TOO BAD. 
 It gets 10. TWEWY is one of the best DS games released in years, as well as just one of the best 
 period. Not to mention one of the best RPGs period. Games like this remind people of what true 
 innovation in a genre is, and it'd be a shame if the team doesn't gain recognition for it. Here's 
 hoping S-E keeps up with games like this, and here's hoping you give it a try. See you in Shibuya!
 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: birdninja624
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 21, 2008 8:34 am PT
Review:  If you need something to do with you're DS, if you're out of good games, and you're going on a 
 road trip, anything you need a good DS game for, TWEWY is the choice. The gameplay, the story, 
 the music, everything just adds up. And the characters such as Beat or neku, you can really connect 
 with them. 
  The only lacking thing about this game are some of the overworld graphics, and the multiplayer. 
 tin pin is fun but not really fun, and the overworld graphics are just a little too 8-bit (No offense 
 to the 8-bit fanboys like myself, But I don't want 8-bit in my DS!) You get much more that you're 
 moneys worth, because the game has great replayability value in the secret reports. And the voice 
 acting is incredible for a Handheld game! (For all you naruto fans out there, sasuke is the main 
 character!) So if you've got a spare 40 dollars, go out and get theis game! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bangboom
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 18, 2008 10:37 am PT
Review:  Square Enix i. e. RPG masterminds inc. has done it again!
  
  TWEWY is set in modern Japan, specifically in a district called Shibuya. The story revolves around 
 a moody teenager Neku. in the beginning of the game, Neku is waking up at a crossing filled with 
 people. Suddenly he is attacked by weird frogs and runs and he has to partner with a bubbly girl 
 called Shiki. Together, they defeat the monsters, then Shiki explains that they are in the Reapers' 
 game and must survive a week or they will be erased.
  
  The story is full of twists and turns and is always interesting. Characters are moody teenagers 
 but are completely unique. Presentation is slick, graphics are excellent, the game is presented 
 using extremely angular anime images and this automatically shows this game is different than most 
 others.
  
  The game play is very interesting. In order to improve characters, they must digest foods which 
 you can buy from shops. You can read peoples' minds or fight monsters called Noise by scanning 
 the area with a pin. 
  Battles aren't fought in your usual way either, TWEWY utilizes BOTH screens for combat, one is 
 touchscreen, the other button/d-pad controlled. Relax, you can allow the computer to take care 
 of the top one if you want so the learning curve goes as you like. 
  Continuing with bucking the trend, you can also adjust your level to adjust your drop rate. Changing 
 the difficulty will make enemies drop different items. 
  Your methods of attacking are called pins, these all have their own powers and can evolve depending 
 on how you play. There are 3 ways to evolve them: 
  Mingle points, which comes from interacting with people
  Battle points, typical battle experience
 
  Shutdown points, you will even accumulate points by not playing TWEWY!
  Only certain pins can be acquired by leveling up the right way.
  You can make friends with shopkeepers, 
 fight monsters, eat some ramen and read peoples' minds. Obviously, this is one of the most original 
 games ever (you can even organize HUD layout, come on!!) .
  
  BUY THIS GAME.
  
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: superegobry
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 15, 2008 8:26 pm PT
Review:  From the games funky art to the innovative use for every single DS interface from the d-pad to 
 the touch screen and even using the mic for some attacks the game is a first in what hopes to be 
 a series although after seeing the end of the game its hard to see them bringing the same characters 
 back which makes it hard to see where a sequal could come in.
  
  that said lets get to the meat of the game:
  the game is in a traditional since a JRPG but it 
 spins off from the JRPG in the battle system
  
  the battle system in The World Ends With You is alittle hard to get down since your fighting on 
 both screens with two characters that share the same health points but there is alittle salvation 
 with the setting to put your partner character into automatic but after alittle while of playing 
 it is possible to get into playing both playing with Neku on the bottom screen and then quickly 
 jumping up to the top screen for a few button presses and then back to the touch screen for more 
 frantic swipes and taps. which is something you'll need to learn to do more and more as you go 
 through different partners though out the game
  
  Neku's attacks are based upon your current pins in the deck you have equiped to him at the time 
 which might sound limited since at first you'll only have 3 pin slots available for you but after 
 you progress you gain more. but just because it sounds limited its really not since each pin has 
 its own way to "activate" it and its own effects and its own refresh rate some pins have limited 
 uses while some can be used as many times as you can tap the screen before the game considers the 
 pin "used up" and requires you to wait while it refreshes.
  
  the music is also amazing and works so well with the games theme that you'll catch your self singing 
 some of the songs as your playing the game which if you have the problem i had you'll have to stop 
 your self from singing the songs while your playing the game in public because people will stare 
 (as i know from first hand expeirience but people also stare when blowing into the microphone for 
 some pins as well) back to music the game's music makes me think of the jet set radio and jet set 
 radio future soundtrack and how well that work for those games so well infact they have much of 
 the same feel to them too
  
  the story is catchy as well but sometimes Neku comes off as alittle predictable with his loner 
 attitude and his hate for the fact that he's stuck otherwise with a partner who he doesnt know 
 anything about or trust but as he starts to he gets kicked back down as the story makes its unforseen 
 twists and turns but in the end the game's story has something that just hooks you in til the end 
 and the replay value of the game with a different universe after story is worth putting in over 
 100+ hours which i have done but playing the game isnt the only thing you'll be doing you'll also 
 be fighting the urge to play it when you let your DS rest but to reward you for taking the brakes 
 from the game as your "supposed to" your pins will gain exp for the time your away from the game 
 as well. 
  
  not only that but you also get exp for your pins by simply putting it into scan mode for any kind 
 of signal. i would put it in scan mode just to pick up my boyfriends cellphone reception which 
 it would oddly call "love-on-a-stick" but hey exp is exp what ever you call it by... and some pins 
 evolve only by scan mode exp or by only away from the game exp
  
  for my first review i know it's alittle jumbled but its hard to explain all the good aspects of 
 this game when everytime you think about how it plays you get all excieted and your thoughts get 
 jumbled up as you squirm in your seat to finish typing the review so you can get back to the game 
 and play it some more and very few games are good enough to do that if that gives you any more 
 positive feed back for the game
  
  while the touch screen controls for the pins can get alittle frusterating and sometime though very 
 rarely the game will confuse your swipes and taps in the end it doesnt take as much away from the 
 game as one would think
  all in all this is a great game and one you will probably play over and over and over again at 
 least until kindgom hearts 358/2 days comes out 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ronnoc3115
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 15, 2008 4:57 pm PT
Review:  In my personal opinion, THE best game out on any platform. Its an instant classic, and will surely 
 be around for years. The story is completely incredible, and sucks you into it all without over 
 loading you. There are countless twists and turns, but I wont spoil anything. The gameplay itself 
 is extremely enjoyable. Beginners can easily use the touch screen and have fun killing monsters 
 with the various pins and techniques. There are countless ways to customize combos and follow up 
 attacks to perfectly suite your style. Then, when you've had enough fun with that, you can control 
 your partner on the top screen simultaniously for even more exciting battles that delve you in 
 deeper. It has one of the greatest soundtracks Ive heard. All the music compliments the amazing 
 scenery perfectly, while still hyping you up for battles, but also telling you when there's a serious 
 and touching moment. There is no doubt in my mind that this game gets a 10/10. It is a masterpiece 
 in every way. There's is so much to do after you beat the game. It took me a while to beat it, 
 but now I have over 50 hours of gameplay time, and Im not close to finishing it completely. It 
 is a must have for anybody who loves a great game. I personally think it would also make an incredible 
 book or movie, but that's just me. I only wish they could make a sequel.
  =D 
::::::

::::::
UserName: animenerd2000
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 15, 2008 8:23 am PT
Review:  The World Ends with you, or TWEWY for people who are lazy. This is, without a doubt, my favorite 
 game for the DS to date. It has an extremely addicting storyline, and a revolutionary control scheme 
 that makes the game that much more fun.
  The story begins where you are just waking up in the middle of a buisy intersection called the 
 Scamble Crossing. By you I'm talking about the main character Neku. He is a kid that is a loner. 
 He likes to just be alone without any human interaction. Anyway, you have no idea what is going 
 on and out of nowhere, a timer gets marked into your palm. Then you get a message on your phone 
 that tells you to go to this huge shopping facility. Just as you are about to get there, you are 
 attacked by these creatures called the Noise. You realize that you cannot fight them for some reason 
 and run away. Then a bunch of events eventually lead up to you meeting up with a partner, and now 
 you can fight.
  That brings me to the controls. You fight with things called pins. They require certain things 
 to happen before they can be activated such blowing into the DS microphone or drawing a circle 
 on the touch screen. All combat with the main character, Neku, is controlled on the bottom screen 
 and with the Stylus. You also control the "partner" I talked abot earlier with the D-pad.
  The story itself was really good but it is a little hard to understand the first time through. 
 You might have to do the story select (you get it after you beat the game) . The story's timeline 
 takes place over three weeks (in game) and each week you get a different partner. Week one you 
 get Shiki. Week two you get Joshua. And week three you end up with Beat.
  The Tin Pin Slammer minigame is not to my liking though. All in all, it is probably on the top 
 three of my favorite games of all time.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: AlmightyMax
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 10, 2008 6:52 pm PT
Review:  Over the years, the JRPG has developed quite a reputation as a stubborn genre. While other genres 
 have grown and evolved over the years, it seems the JRPG is content with sitting back and watching 
 its brethren change. It's a genre of conventions, a genre of predictability; at least, until Square 
 Enix thought up The World Ends With You. This urban-themed action RPG eschews almost all genre 
 conventions to try and create something completely unique, resulting in one of the most entertaining 
 and engaging handheld RPGs I've seen in a long time.
  
  Instead of the high fantasy setting used by most games in the genre, The World Ends With You is 
 set in the real world; precisely, Shibuya, a shopping district in Tokyo. The main character, an 
 unsociable teenager named Neku, finds himself alone in Shibuya's Scramble Crossing with no idea 
 how or why he's there. After a cryptic text message tells him he's to meet at 104 Building or face 
 erasure, he finds himself fighting for his life in a deadly competition known as the Reaper's Game. 
 To survive Neku must do something he never did before; work together with another person.
  
  While certain clichd aspects, such as amnesia and a faceless ultimate evil, are present the 
 story is really it's own. The large, complex cast of characters is what really helps the story 
 take off. Neku might seem like your typical sullen antihero at first, but he's a much more dynamic 
 character than the norm. Another particularly interesting character is Neku's first partner, Shiki; 
 at first glance she's just your average peppy sidekick but she deals with a quite literal split 
 personality and some intriguing motivations. The World Ends With You touches on some surprisingly 
 poignant themes, such as friendship and love, betrayal, trust and jealousy. Together with the crazy 
 premise, it makes one of the DS' most engaging narratives. 
  
  If you haven't already figured it out, The World Ends With You is an incredibly stylized game, 
 and the audio/visual presentation is virtually untouched on the DS market. The art design successfully 
 mixes a Kingdom Hearts-esque style with the urban setting, and the aesthetic manages to look fantastic 
 without relying on flashy technical effects. While the usually static backgrounds are all rendered 
 in 3D, the characters, enemies and attack effects are all two dimensional. The use of character 
 portraits for dialogue and the minimal animation in cinemas make the game feel like an interactive 
 manga novel, and Tetsuya Nomura's character designs are stellar and endearing. The art team also 
 deserves special kudos for excluding any in-game advertising from the product-packed Shibuya, instead 
 creating unique company names and logos.
  
  The equally stellar soundtrack is a huge achievement for a DS game, featuring countless recorded 
 tracks from more than ten different Japanese artists. Inspired by sounds from real-life Shibuya 
 and drawing influence from numerous genres including rock, hip-hop, J-pop and electronica, it's 
 tough not to fall in love with the game's catchy melodies and nonsensical lyrics. As an avid Jet 
 Set Radio fan, the soundtrack struck a special chord for me; it seems obvious that The World Ends 
 With You takes its influence from that franchise. Both use similar styles and for the most part, 
 the soundtracks are interchangeable. Each character has numerous voice snippets that rarely grate, 
 although most characters sound like they have a lisp. It's hard not to be impressed with everything 
 Square has done on what's usually such a weak sound machine; this is the epitome of aural presentation 
 on the DS.
  
  Of course, style is rarely enough to make a game and Square has realized that. On the gameplay 
 front a unique combat system called the Cross Stride Battle System takes centre stage. The Cross 
 Stride has you in control of two characters at once, and while there's a huge learning curve it 
 results in the most frenetic, fun battles ever in an RPG. You control Neku entirely with the stylus 
 on the bottom screen, and can equip him with a number of pins prior to each battle. Each pin has 
 its own unique attack and method of execution, and there are 300 to collect in all. Methods of 
 pin activation range from tapping or drawing on certain areas of the screen to singing into the 
 mic - the latter of which is rather embarrassing but extremely fun in public. There's less to your 
 top-screen partner - his/her combos are controlled entirely via the D-pad (or the face buttons 
 for southpaws) - but you still need to keep an astute eye on them as you both share HP. 
  
  Fighting on both screens will most likely take some getting use to, but once you get into the Cross 
 Stride's ebb and flow you'll be busting out absolutely crazy combos. Every time you pull off a 
 finisher move, you will send a 'light puck' to your other partner, and as the rally continues the 
 puck gets stronger. It's a guarantee that no one will be ace with the system at first and some 
 people will likely never understand it, and the game realizes it, allowing you to customize auto-play 
 options for your top-screen partner. The computer can always be in control if you wish, or take 
 control after a set period of time, or never touch your partner if you get really good. Another 
 possibility I found kind of fun is to have one person controlling each character; while it is shallower 
 and less enjoyable than controlling both on your own it does let both players give greater scrutiny 
 to their tasks, which comes in handy when executing a joint fusion attack.
  
  The fusion attacks are an extra layer of complexity to the battle system, and for some might be 
 the straw that breaks the camel's back. Each top-screen character has their own unique method of 
 collecting the stars that fuel fusions, from simple memory-matching to a card game that could nearly 
 qualify as a full-fledged puzzle game. These minigames may prove too much to handle for a lot of 
 players, but the super-flashy Fusion Attacks are more than enough incentive to try. 
  
  The World Ends With You greatly benefits from something a lot of games in the genre lack; a fantastic 
 sense of pace. Instead of testing your patience with numerous lengthy introductions, the game is 
 broken into chapters which take place over one Day of the Reaper's Game. Each Day begins with a 
 text informing you of the Day's mission and a brief story section, then you're off to explore the 
 town, complete the mission and trigger a cinema which concludes the Day. It's a formula that works 
 and while there are some lengthy spots of dialogue it's never too much to indifference someone 
 who just wants to play.
  
  The World Ends With You comes filled to the brim with features which let you play the game exactly 
 the way you want it. The most noticeable and appreciated option allows you to change the difficulty 
 at any time, even the Game Over screen. The game is by no means a pushover, especially if you can't 
 get the hang of the unique battle system, so the always available option to change the game to 
 'Easy' is a huge plus. Of course, you can't just expect the game to allow you such an easy way 
 out; while tuning the difficulty down means you won't die as often you won't net as many experience 
 points or pins as you would on other difficulties.
  
  The character customization is absolutely unrivaled for a handheld RPG, and there's a lot of hidden 
 depth and quirks to watch out for. You can equip each of your characters with up to four articles 
 of clothing to boost stats, but your character must first be Brave enough to wear the outfit. You 
 can't just make Neku wear a dress even if it gives the most substantial stat boosts of everything 
 in your inventory. Each piece of clothing has a particular Brand, and the more popular brands give 
 you attack bonuses while the least popular cuts down your stats. Shibuya's streets go through fads 
 faster than you can blink and the clothes you wear can quickly become obsolete, but you can help 
 change trends by fighting with the right pins. Another cool feature allows you to lower your characters 
 level at any time (different from the difficulty slide) to get a bigger chance at earning pins. 
 The level of depth nears that of most console RPGs and you'll constantly find new ways to keep 
 the experience fresh.
  
  The World Ends With You is an unexpected example of a modern DS classic. Square Enix has gone above 
 and beyond what anyone expected, choosing to eschew convention to create something entirely their 
 own. It's an absolutely gorgeous fusion of form and function, and if you have even the vaguest 
 appreciation for the genre you'd do good to pick it up.
  --AlmightyMax 
::::::

::::::
UserName: crystox
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 6, 2008 5:54 pm PT
Review:  This has everything I'm interested in: great story, interesting game play, A PLOT, memorable characters, 
 acceptable difficulty, the list goes on.
  
  The only few flaws are such: too much reading dialog ( i sometimes get tired from reading ) so 
 it needs more voice acting, the story could be a little longer, the game play can be..... damaging 
 (to the DS) , there is only one memory slot, and the wireless isn't that great ( but that's always 
 been Nintendo's problem) . Still, i recommend this game to anyone who wants to play something different. 
 For new gamers: well, be up to the challenge.
  
  ( semi-spoiler)
  P. S.: many people complain that the Stride Cross Battle System is too complex. Well, just set the 
 top screen to computer control. Even if the computer doesn't know s*** it will still help.
  
  but it's an AMAZING game!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Apoklitty
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 5, 2008 6:59 am PT
Review:  awesome awesome awesome awesome awesome awesome 
  awesome awesome awesome awesome awesome awesome 
  awesome awesome awesome awesome awesome awesome 
 
  awesome awesome awesome awesome awesome awesome 
  awesome awesome awesome awesome awesome awesome 
  awesome awesome awesome awesome awesome awesome 
 
  awesome awesome awesome awesome awesome awesome 
  awesome awesome awesome awesome awesome awesome 
  awesome awesome awesome awesome awesome awesome 
 
  awesome awesome awesome awesome awesome awesome 
  awesome awesome awesome awesome awesome awesome 
  awesome awesome awesome awesome awesome awesome 
 
  awesome awesome awesome awesome awesome awesome 
  awesome awesome awesome awesome awesome awesome 
  awesome awesome awesome awesome awesome awesome 
 
  awesome awesome awesome awesome awesome awesome 
  awesome awesome awesome awesome awesome awesome 
  awesome awesome awesome awesome awesome awesome 
 
  awesome awesome awesome awesome awesome awesome awesome awesome awesome awesome awesome awesome 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: louielouiee
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 3, 2008 6:31 am PT
Review:  NDS isn't a powerfull machine, so to develop a game for the console you have to be crative or else 
 the graphics and the gameplay could be painfull. And that's exactly what Square-enix and Juiter 
 does here, they were very crative and ambitious.
  The scenary may not be the most beautiful you ever seen, but the lack of perspective gives us a 
 strange and cool feeling just by looking at it.
  Some might say that the characters weren't very criative, because they look so alike the Kingdom 
 Hearts characters, but that was just what they wanted, to invite the KH fans to play, feel confortable 
 with the caracter, make references, and to say "Hey! We're the same group who made that AWSOME 
 game!"
  The story of TWEWY is also very criative, the game gives answers and take them back of you all 
 the time in the game, and even when you end the game, they'll say that there's even more to know 
 about that bizarre Shibuya thing.
  You know, I'm not very thrustable because I'm a fanboy of KH, and this game did just what I expected 
 - made me whant to play KH without saying a thing of it.
  Ah! The gameplay is kind of strange. I dunno... didin't like that much the 2 screen battle system, 
 is confusing and kind of hard to play all, but on the other side is a challange, makes me whant 
 to learn and domniate that battle system.
  And I didn't like the soundtrack that much either. Is cool bacause Neku is listening to music all 
 the time in the game and for that the soundtrack makes you feel closer to the character, but I 
 didn'ty like the music. But, hey, that's only a personal taste, is very easy liking soundtrack, 
 with a lot of singin' music and stuff, but I'm a old school soundtrack guy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Yoshicon8
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 2, 2008 5:42 pm PT
Review:  This Square Enix game is excellent! I love it and I have had it for two weeks or so, and have played 
 it for like 27 hours or something. This has a great storyline, and great characters, and a lot 
 of twists and turns you won't expect. 
  
  The story: It is (as i said before) great. It's about a boy named Neku who was entered in a game 
 made by people named "Reapers." The game lasts 7 days. On your journey you'll find many characters, 
 good and bad, who are all very interesting. You can also "scan" and read peoples minds, which isn't 
 really needed but sometimes they tell you things you need to know. They are also sometimes comical. 
 You will say, at least twice, "Whoa." When you figure out... never mind, I'll let you see it.
 
  
  The characters: Neku: Well he's an emo and doesn't understand people which makes him very hard 
 to deal with. 
  Shiki: Your partner and she loves to sew. 
  Beat: Another player you meet along your journey. He isn't smart but he can help you sometimes.
 
  Rhyme: Beat's partner. She's smart and can answer most of your questions. She is almost the exact 
 opposite of Beat
  Reapers: They're very annoying and are the main antagonist's. 
  
  Gameplay: Excellent! Great! but it's a tad hard at times. Like sometimes the touch commands don't 
 work as you plan or want them to do. 
  
  Music/sound: This game has a GREAT soundtrack! The music fits in with the game well. 
  
  This 
 game is wicked fun. And I would recommend this to anyone. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: desyple
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 27, 2008 8:02 am PT
Review:  The world ends with you is a wonderful game. This has to be one of the best games to ever been 
 released on the ds. This game has an amazing story, it truly takes story telling on the nds to 
 a whole new level. The combat is new and intriguing not to mention addictive. The game steps away 
 from the traditional turn based style of rpg combat and instead uses real time combat through the 
 use of pins that contain the attacks that you will be using. Also instead of using the traditional 
 bottom screen only for battling it introduces the uses of both the top and bottom screens for dual 
 screen battling. Through this you are now able to do combination attacks between you and you support 
 character. The game play takes a while to get used to but once you play it you wont want it to be 
 any other way. Its highly addictive. The story takes it a new direction for this game because as 
 usual you have the angst ridden hero but instead of being overly cheerful is very secluded and 
 through the whole game he is learning how to live life to its fullest but the way this game portrays 
 this story is very effective. truly i find very few things to not like about this game but my only 
 true gripe is the lack of multiplayer with the Nintendo wifi connection. Through the implementation 
 of this the game would truly have been taken to the next level. But still as far as rpgs on the 
 Nintendo ds come its hard to do better than The World Ends With You. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BBFan414
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 27, 2008 12:09 am PT
Review:  Jeez, where to begin? This game rocked my socks. I absolutely enjoyed this game and every turn 
 it took. This game has very innovative gameplay not seen before. It is an RPG game that follows 
 a anti-social teen named Neku who has died. But to get another chance at life, he must win the 
 Reaper's Game... Fail, and face erasure.
  
  The game goes on for 3 weeks, but the game has a high replay value. The gameplay is unlike anything 
 i've ever seen. The story keeps you going and the characters are awesome too. The cutscenes are 
 sometimes like a comic book. The game can be difficult at parts, but you can always lower the difficulty 
 level.
  
  Graphics: 8.5
  Story: 9.5
  Gameplay: 9.5
  Overall: 9.5
  
  (the post has to be 800 characters so lololoololololol ollololololololololol olololololollololollo 
 lololololololololollo lolollololololololo llololololololololol ollololololololololo lololololololollololol 
 ololollolololololollolol) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: yoh_hitodama
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 26, 2008 2:55 pm PT
Review:  Well honestly i don't have words to describe this awesome game!!!!!
  but the game spot rules say's me that i must to write 100 words about "the world ends with you" 
 .
  so let's begin!!!!!!!! my first impression about this game is, O. o game play weird... one minute 
 later... OMG I LOVE THIS GAME!!!!!!!!!! I NEED BEAT IT !!!!!! so i did it! with a lot of hours 
 without sleep and again a million of bad language! haha but in the end i won!!!!!!! and the final 
 boss lost hauahuahuauhahu.
  this game is great in all aspects: sound, gameplay (ok in the end it's good too) , this game only 
 lose a point in replay because i didn't played at all, and of course this game is a lot of fun, 
 about the story, it's completely original and involvent.
  to finish the only thing i can say to define my feeling about this game is... I LOVE THIS GAME
 
  
  and i still looking for a challenge game for psp like castlevania: order of ecclesia 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ta11on
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 13, 2008 2:21 pm PT
Review:  This game is very unique. It goes about game play I have never seen before. I love it's music and 
 flashy outfits and style. The game lasts a solid 6-8 hours. THE. BEST. 6-8 hours. EVER.
  
  You control 2 characters at once during combat. On the touch-screen you control Neku using pure 
 stylus controls. On the top screen is your other character, who is usually controlled by the computer, 
 but you can use the D-pad to input a set of attacks.
  
  Throughout the game you collect pins, which give you more attacks and abilities in combat. Using 
 different pins in a set is a part of the combat strategy. You can also buy new clothes which are 
 used to give you other abilities. Wearing different clothes does not change your characters appearance 
 though, boo-hoo.
  
  The story is very entertaining and has a twist at every corner. If the game play isn't your style, 
 the story will at least keep you playing until the very end. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: shufflezoom
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 9, 2008 9:41 am PT
Review:  TWEWY has been called original more than ever and also repetitve . Is this true well shufflezoom 
 reviews is about to find out!
  
  Story 10/10
  The story is what keeps this game fresh. It just never stops drawing you in . Also TWEWY has a strong 
 sense of cause and consequence. I mean sure all of SE RPGS have that but TWEWY is the one that 
 has the most powerful. The main story surrounds around a boy named Neku who is pretty
  much an emo. Anyhow he gets trapped in this thing called the Reaper's game in which he has to complete 
 7 challenging missions in seven days. If you lose you get erased and it's game over. All these characters 
 i TWEWY have a great sense of realism which leads to a fantastic story.
  
  Gameplay 10/10
  Although TWEWY'S gameplay is weebit repetitve it still amazingly great . You 
 attack with these things called pins there is a wide variety of them and they mostly all are great. 
 TWEWY is an action RPG so there's no turns here also what makes this batte system even more unique 
 is that you control you partner Shiki on the top screen and Neku with the stylus .I recommend you 
 focus on Neku and Shiki should stay on Auto-play. TWEWY is very challenging but challenging in 
 a fun way. TWEWY's gameplay has a unique battle system which leads to a fun
  gameplay expirence
  
  Graphics 10/10
  TWEWY is easily one of the DS'S best looking games 
 with detailed sprites and a marvelous looking Shibya district
  the graphics are pretty fantastic.
  
  Overall 10/10
  Not only is this game SEs best attempt 
 at the DS. It is also the best on a handheld 
::::::

::::::
UserName: thetruth7
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 9, 2008 7:13 am PT
Review:  ----------------------------------------------------------
  Pros:
  
  -An amazing and original story
  -Unique soundtrack
  -Great characters
  -Good character designs
 
  -The Pin System
  -Lots of things to collect :P
  
  ----------------------------------------------------------
  
  Cons:
  
  -Story gets a little 
 bit "hectic"
  
  ----------------------------------------------------------
  
  Others:
  
  -Tin Pin Slammer (a mini-game you can play offline or with a friend!)
  
  ----------------------------------------------------------
 
  
  Amazing! From story, to music, to gameplay... it aced everything! As for the con I put there, it's 
 hectic in how it tends to get confusing, and near the end game it was going at a meteoric speed...
 
  Overall, this game has a perfect balance of everything and is a must play for RPG fans.
  
  ---------------------------------------------------------
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Alcamin
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 7, 2008 10:51 am PT
Review:  If you've played RPG's for any length of time you are sure to know who Square Enix are. Think Kingdom 
 Hearts and Final Fantasy and you'll have a pretty good idea of their basic gaming formula and style: 
 lush fantasy worlds, massive swords, crazy looking characters (chocobo's optional) , and so on. 
 In one sense, Square Enix are quite stuck in their ways. They experiment occasionally, throw in 
 a new feature or two, put a bit of shine on a few things, but in the end they rarely stray from 
 their traditional format. But why not? They are, after all, extremely good at what they do and 
 their stuff sells like hot cakes. Why change a good thing? It might be surprising to hear then 
 that, although they continue to churn out a huge amount of the older style stuff, they are also 
 not afraid to shake things up a bit from time to time and try something new.
  
  
  
  The World Ends With You is definitely not the Square Enix norm. There are no enchanted forests, 
 magic wielding sorcerers and cuddly Moogle's here; instead the setting is modern day Tokyo's Shibuya 
 district, Japan's fashion and youth-culture centre. You follow the story of Neku Sakabara, a graffiti 
 loving 15 year old loner, as he is thrust kicking and screaming into the Reapers Game, a twisted 
 week long battle for his very existence. Before too long Neku finds himself faced with strange 
 monsters called Noise, all baying for his blood, in an alternate version of Shibuya where the general 
 public don't seem to be aware of his tricky predicament. Thankfully help is at hand when another 
 "player" named Shiki, a cheerful yet mysterious girl, turns up to form a pact with our hero which 
 will allow both of them to defend themselves. This "defence" takes the form of pins that grant 
 the user special abilities, such as lighting Noise on fire or catching them in a tornado, each 
 very destructive and satisfying in their own way. Along the way Neku reluctantly teams up with 
 other players who not only help him to fight off the various enemies but also show him that not 
 everyone is out to get him and that he doesn't have to spend the rest of his life allow. Needless 
 to say, Neku finds the whole thing rather bewildering.
  
  
  
  The first thing that really strikes you from the very moment the game starts is the look and feel 
 of the world. It's simply gorgeous! The colourful anime graphics really lends itself well to the 
 stylish and fashion obsessed setting of Shibuya's shopping districts giving the whole place a unique 
 and absorbing atmosphere. The same thing applies to the battle scenes which are extremely engaging 
 and exciting. With all of the lights and bodies of vanquished Noise flying across the screen it 
 never feels dull, but it can, at times, get a bit too much. There's just so much to take in, it 
 can result in major sensory overload (which is actually quite exhilarating in a way) . The characters 
 too are also a product of this style and, like most Square Enix creations, are pretty wacky and 
 over-the-top (Square hasn't completely abandoned its roots) . It's all amazing though and is a real 
 treat for the senses.
  
  
  
  The other aspect that is immediately apparent is the gameplay. Unlike most DS games TWEWY is almost 
 completely stylus controlled, with minimal input needed with the D-pad. You control everything 
 from movement, battles and the menu screen from here without the need (or even the option as far 
 as I can tell) of using the arrows. Stuff like that has been done before but the big difference 
 here is that it actually works. One of the real triumphs with this game is the way that it so effortlessly 
 works with the technology that makes the DS such a unique console in the first place. It feels 
 natural, quick and intuitive, as well as a being an almost criminal amount of fun. A quick word 
 of warning though: the learning curve surrounding the battle system is pretty steep, because although 
 the D-pad is not used much in the conventional sense it does have a purpose. During battle, when 
 Neku is partnered with Shiki, you must control them both individually (Shiki on the top screen 
 and Neku on the bottom) . This in effect meaning you are fighting two battles at once, which at 
 first is pretty daunting and will take a lot of getting used to. Persistence reaps rewards however 
 and with a little practice you realise the genius behind it. Like so many things in this game it 
 feels unique and perfectly balanced between difficultly and awesomeness. Even if you don't like 
 it though, fear not! If you are finding it difficult to comprehend following two screens at once 
 (which is completely understandable) you can let the AI take over Shiki so you focus on kicking 
 the snot out of the Noise with Neku. It really is very adaptable.
  
  
  
  All of this technique wizardry would be meaningless without a decent story however but, once again, 
 TWEWY delivers in spades. Don't let the anime graphics fool you; this is no childish Saturday morning 
 cartoon. The story is wonderfully compelling with enough plot twists and turns to keep you guessing 
 until the very end. There are several scenes where everything seems to be resolved and sorted only 
 to be catapulted into a totally different direction in the blink of an eye. It really is edge of 
 your seat stuff. The character development is skilfully handled as well with some genuinely heartfelt 
 and hard-hitting moments. Neku's journey from angsty, sullen teen to a caring and functioning member 
 of society is wonderfully portrayed and the plots surrounding the co-stars, such as Shiki, are 
 no less rewarding. That sort of emotional clout isn't particularly common in the gaming world, 
 especially on the DS, but having them here is fantastic and it's those moments really drive this 
 game along. It really is the cherry on this delicious and fattening cake!
  
  
  
  The World Ends With You is flawlessly presented and just oozes style and cool from start to finish. 
 Its innovative handling sets a new benchmark for RPG's and shows that new and unique features can 
 still be added to keep the genre fresh. This is not just the best DS games I've played this year 
 but one of the best games of any kind to be released over recent months. A true Square Enix classic 
 and a must have for any DS owner!
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: DannyRice
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 5, 2008 8:31 pm PT
Review:  The Good: A spectacular, unique control scheme; beautiful art blended with awesome graphical power; 
 upbeat, modern, cool music; very real character development; tons of colloquial quirks and character 
 upgrading; a solid campaign with lots to do afterward; one of the most original games made in years.
 
  
  The Bad: Only one save slot; it's tough to get into the confusion of the battle system at first.
 
  
  Square Enix is very well known for having extremely high production values and huge campaigns in 
 every game they make, and for that reason, each and every one sells like crazy. Generally though, 
 Square sticks to its guns. The majority of their games are under the title Final Fantasy, even 
 though most games in the franchise have nothing to do with each other.
  
  But fortunately, Square, the best RPG making company in the world, isn't afraid of trying new things. 
 Lost Odyssey, Chrono Trigger and Chrono Cross, and the three Kingdom Hearts games are a few examples 
 of this, all of which had impressive results. Now comes The World Ends With You, to a Nintendo 
 system, which would've been unbelievable a few years ago, when Square and Nintendo had a major 
 falling out.
  
  This game is truly unbelievable. The story is purely original. The main character, Neku, finds 
 himself in the middle of a city, not knowing anything about himself or where he is. He discovers 
 that in order to survive in this strange underground world, very similar to the aboveground world 
 (our own) , he has to find a partner to help him battle creatures called Noise roaming the streets. 
 Everyday the pair will be given a mission. If none of the pairs succeeds in completing the task 
 given them, they'll be erased from existence.
  
  Neku discovers that after seven days, the wishes of the winning pair in this strange Reapers game 
 (the people who control the game and make the Noise) are given to them. But it soon becomes his 
 destiny to end the Reapers game and stop the killing of innocent people trying to survive their 
 madhouse.
  
  Partnering with Shiki, he discovers that he has to equip pins to use as weapons (you'll control 
 Neku and have him use his pins on the bottom screen) . You can also customize Neku and his partner 
 (he gets three total over the course of the game) with clothing, which give them better stats, 
 as does food, which they have to digest before reaping the benefits of eating it, like in real 
 life. Your partner, on the other hand, is controlled by the control pad and the top screen.
  
  By making certain movements on the touch screen, you can activate different pins Neku has equipped, 
 which can heal him, do damage to just one enemy or many, and some do more or less damage faster 
 or slower than others. By hitting certain control pad directions, you can activate combos Neku's 
 partner will use on the top screen, and if the correct combos are done, you can use powerful attacks 
 that the characters work together to execute.
  
  It sounds difficult, and at first, it is. The learning curve is a tad steep, but you'll be able 
 to survive until you get the hang of it. A green "puck" switches between Neku and his partner with 
 every combo the character with the puck uses. Whoever has the puck has more powerful attacks, so 
 you'll learn you'll defeat enemies easier if you focus on the character with the puck. Both characters 
 have the same enemies, but they're in different locations on each screen. Still, if one dies on 
 Neku's screen, it will die on the other too.
  
  There are tons and tons of clothes, and you'll learn certain brands are more popular and therefore 
 increase your stats better in certain areas, a smart idea that fits in with how things work in 
 real life. The characters can see the aboveground people, but they can't see the underground characters 
 in the Reapers Game. This allows the underground characters to influence the aboveground people's 
 decisions on style, and to read their thoughts, among other things.
  
  The story is expectedly fantastic, coming from Square, but it's nothing like a Final Fantasy story. 
 The characters feel truly human, with real, fleshed out beliefs and emotions. And, unlike characters 
 in many other games, the good guys don't all get along and vice versa, or at least they don't have 
 the same opinions on everything going on. Neku's story, along with Shiki's, Joshua's, Beat's and 
 Rhyme's are all unique and don't feel like they're just a repeat of a stereotypical story for their 
 type of character.
  
  The graphics have a unique artistic style as well that's perfectly fitting for the game, and uses 
 plenty of power from the DS. Nothing is anything like it, on any system, ever. The music sounds 
 modern, but isn't some form of crappy rap, and doesn't really even feel like pop or rock. It's 
 just plain upbeat, modern, and freaking cool. Like the graphics, it's stylish- the name of the 
 game- and proves that fantasy and a modern day setting can in fact work hand in hand. It even takes 
 place in a real city in Japan, with real locales.
  
  The World Ends With You has a solid campaing, around thirty hours or so, depending on how many 
 extra missions you do during the game. Once you beat it, though, you can go back and beat the Reaper 
 missions you didn't complete the first time, unlocking more information about the story, much of 
 which is still a mystery after the (awesome) conclusion. This could very well add at least twenty 
 hours onto the game, making for a game of truly Square Enix proportions, especially for a handheld 
 title.
  
  Gamespot pointed out that because some of the pins involve making the same motion with the stylus, 
 you may not be able to use the pin you mean to use. This is a minor nuisance, but the developers 
 saw it coming, so the pin you have equipped farthest left on your list is the one it assumes you 
 want. It doesn't completely solve the problem, which is unavoidable, but it certainly helps, and 
 shows the devs attention to detail.
  
  There are some other tiny complaints in there. You can't really complain that the game is short, 
 but only because you can go back and play the levels through again. Otherwise, it's not very long 
 for an RPG. There's only one save slot, which is annoying, but not too bad an issue, since it's 
 unlikely a lot of people will be able to invest enough time in the game to complete it at one time. 
 Kind of like Pokemon.
  
  And again, at first it'll be extremely confusing attempting to battle and getting the feeling that 
 you're going to kill yourself on one screen while fighting on the other. However, you do share 
 a life meter, and it's not too hard to avoid damage, but mainly because it's nothing like anything 
 you've ever done before, the battle system is hard to get into. It's unlikely to turn people away 
 because the game is so intriguing, but it needs mentioning.
  
  But none of this does much to take away from the game compared to the other little things that 
 make the game so awesome. Your characters level up, but you can bring them back down to get more 
 money and more experience from battles, at the risk of losing battles easier (although you can 
 bring the characters back to their highest available level at any time) . Additionally, you can 
 change the difficulty, easy medium or hard, in game. And at the end, you can level up your favorite 
 partner characters along with Neku, not bothering with the characters you don't like as much (i. e. 
 Joshua) .
  
  Should you get it? Absolutely. Nintendo almost always makes the very best games on their systems, 
 consistently. Mario, Mario Kart, Zelda, Metroid, Kirby, Pokemon, and Super Smash Bros. make money 
 on every Nintendo system. But Nintendo isn't big on RPGs, with the rare exceptions of Fire Emblem 
 games. So when Square Enix got back in the ring for Nintendo (at least on DS) , they finally proved 
 that other companies can make fantastic games on Nintendo's revolutionary systems this gen. World 
 Ends With You is just as revolutionary as the system it's on, and possibly superior to Nintendo's 
 work on its new handheld. It's an absolute must buy if you want to fully appreciate the DS, the 
 bestselling system this generation. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: arthur_lhl
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 5, 2008 6:24 am PT
Review:  This game has all the typical features of an RPG game - collect items, purchase items in shops, 
 hunting for valuables, solving one mission to get to the other, and of course, a relatively repetitive 
 fighting style.
  
  However, this game is different, and it is the difference that set it apart from all other RPG 
 games.
  
  Firstly, game developers have to strive to maintain the player's interest in the game. The World 
 Ends with You is successful in doing so, because of it's amazing story line - a story line that 
 keeps approaching new climaxes and yields for the player's curiosity. Despite fighting techniques 
 being rather similar throughout the game, you will not give up on the game just yet because you 
 would want to know what's going to happen next.
  
  In addition, the game also intends to send a message to players on humanity today. For instance, 
 Neku (i. e. the main character) is one who always has his headphones on, ignoring the others. This 
 signifies ignorance. At the end, he realises that ignorance is not the best thing because he has 
 learnt so much throughout the game (i. e. you should play the game to find out why as I do not wish 
 to spoil it here) . This game also highlighted other issues, such as materialistic and individualistic, 
 all in a subtle way, which I suppose adults can pick up and children may not. For example, having 
 the most fashionable items is advantageous to you. This obviously highlights materialism, which 
 is in its height in today's society.
  
  The game developers also put tremendous effort in making the gameplay more interesting and less 
 repetitive. This was done in introducing variable fighting techniques through the usage of different 
 stylus gestures.
  
  The best thing, the feature I like the most, of this game is its "manga" artwork in the cutscences. 
 It's of high quality, and it would be too much to ask for if I were to request for it to be an 
 "anime" with conversation bubbles rather than a "manga" (i. e. animated rather than non-animated) .
 
  
  I will not spoil the game for you, so I will not write further about the game. Plus, the game description 
 can be easily obtained and it would be rather redundant if I were to regurgitate it here.
  
  The downsides of the game are not significant, but could be addressed. This game only allows 
 one save slot, probably because the file would be too large and you'll know why once you play the 
 game. Besides that, in the graphics quality of the game outside cutscences are highly pixelated 
 and one of the worst you can find on the DS system. I sincerely think that this can be improved, 
 but probably it would be too big a file for the DS card. 
  
  All in all, this game is worth the purchase and you can most probably find it at a reasonable price 
 over eBay, as physical retailers will not reduce the price just yet due to its popularity and rarity. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: WhiteLion130
Rating: 5
Date: Nov 2, 2008 9:59 pm PT
Review:  The World Ends with you.
  my friends were talking about how they heard all this cool game, so i bought it, and man was it 
 disapointing. so they have the story line the reaper games and its really cool, but then it really 
 turns into is run and talk to people and fight. fighting is so boring and to silly. because you 
 need to move your guy (using the touch screen) and then attack (also with the touch screen) always 
 the same moves diff buttons (wepons with powers shaped like buttons) so i was enjoying it and then 
 the game was just the same repeated and repeated. they start strong but they finish very very bad, 
 so no if you wont to get a ds game that you can have fun with and will last you a while dont get 
 this game. and if you do see it a 5 doller bin, grab it and let it waste your time.
  
  Peace 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jdog1687
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 24, 2008 6:12 pm PT
Review:  I got The World Ends With You (TWEWY) from my friend after he got it and hated it. After I tried 
 I loved it and still do.
  
  Story: Out of the games I have reviewed this one has the best and most fluent story. There are 
 some very moving parts and turns in the storyline. With this game there isn't much I can say without 
 spoiling the game. (10)
  
  Music and Sound: The music in TWEWY at first makes some people (like me who listen to Metallica) 
 cringe with a pop/rap style and very upbeat. Soon you get used to it but anyway the voice acting 
 is stellar. The sound of the voice is clean and is used in moderation and is very good when in 
 upsetting situations. (9)
  
  Characters: The characters are actually quite easy to relate to. Neku is a social outcast and doesn't 
 want contact with others (reason why he wears headphones) . The whole cast of characters is great 
 and can rank up as some of the best characters of all time. Mine is Sho Minamimoto who is from 
 this game. (10)
  
  Gameplay: The way this game plays is very unique compared to other DS games. It uses the touch 
 screen very well and also you have to control your partner with the control pad, hard to do but 
 with a friend it is easy or put it on auto. (10)
  
  Graphics: The artwork is very well drawn and the 16-bit look was a wise one. (10)
  
  Game Length: 
 The story is long and with leveling it can take about 20 or so hours to complete and afterwards 
 you can go back and play old levels over again along with a non-canonical final chapter. (10)
 
  
  Replay Value: I got this game in April and I am still playing it now. Once you start you will not 
 want to stop. (10)
  
  Final Note: TWEWY is a fun game with a gripping story and great characters. If you do have a DS 
 you must get this if you are the fan of RPGs. Square should be happy to have another amazing game 
 in there Pantheon of Greatest (home of Final Fantasy VII and Kingdom Hearts) . 
  
  FINAL SCORE: 9.9 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Kenji_Shinra
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 23, 2008 5:37 pm PT
Review:  This game is most likely the DS's most unique game which greatly uses the DS's double screen feature. 
 Its unique also in the sense on how you engage into combat. The game's "scan" system allows more 
 than engaging into battles. You can go into the mind of some of the computer's thoughts. It may 
 seem useless but at times, it is probably the funnest way of going through the game. What I really 
 liked was how there are so many possibilities in battle through the different "pins" that you can 
 get. Some pins will actually have to be "evolved" from others. One of the coolest things though 
 is how you can level up your pins through wireless play and simply saving your game and turning 
 it off. When you turn off your game after saving, the current "deck" of pins that you are equipped 
 with will game exp. Through these three different ways of gaining experience for your pins, no 
 single way will evolve your pins. Also, another great system of the game are the stickers. Through 
 trading special items in shops and completing missions, you can get special stickers that improve 
 your battle partner's attack and defense, grants abilities, and even allows you to add more "slots" 
 onto your deck so you can use more pins at once. 
  
  On a closing note, The World Ends with You is an epic RPG that keeps you guessing just as much 
 as Neku (the main character) . As he learns, you learn. Every surprise you find out is just as much 
 as a surprise to Neku. This game will keep you guessing, battling, and running all around Shibuya 
 on a crazy adventure that reveals all the secrets around the ones you must trust to survive... 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Chaori
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 23, 2008 3:30 pm PT
Review:  Nintendo approaches Square Enix and asks them for a game with a brand new interface that allows 
 the use of dual screens. Square Enix pulls off this request with amazing results.
  
  You take on the roll of Neku, a teenager who's thrown into a world overrun by monsters, or "noise". 
 Together with his partner Shiki and others you defeat the noise and win the Reaper's game.
  
  The really unique thing about this game is the battle system. Most Nintendo DS games don't 
 use the Stylus to it's full potential, well I can tell you now, this game does.
  
  Magic in The World Ends With You is acquired through pins which Neku is able to use. Say you are 
 using a fire pin, you are able to draw a line across your DS's touch screen and create a wall of 
 fire to burn enemies. Other spells require slashing on objects, repeatedly tapping on monsters 
 and using different combinations of Stylus movements.
  
  This game is very easy to get used to, and within the first hour of gameplay you feel like you 
 know the whole lot.
  
  Definately worth a 9/10 for uniqueness alone, this is a definate must-buy game for the Nintendo 
 DS if you like RPG's or any of Square Enix's games for that matter! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: griffinboy846
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 25, 2008 11:41 am PT
Review:  The story starts out with Neku Sakaraba (i think) in Shibuya, not knowing how he got there. There 
 he meets Shiki, and learns thst he is in a game, and he wants to get out. Later he meets 3 other 
 friends, who help him out over the course of the game.
  The story is pretty good, and keeps you hooked through out.
  The gameplay is on 2 screens. The 
 top screen is your partner, who you can control by pressing the D-pad in different directions. 
 You can also let the AI control your partner. On the bottom screen is Neku, in which you use pins 
 to attack. They range from shouting in the microphone, to slashing an enemy vertically.
  After you successfully land good combos with your partner, you can have a fusion attack, which 
 damages every character (except you) on the screen, resulting in major damage.
  Another part is the level slider. You can go to the menu, and slide down your EXP level. When you 
 slide it down, you'll have less HP, but the pin-drop rate will increase, netting you some extra 
 pins.
  The graphics are pretty good. Sprite animation is good, background design is great, with big, booming 
 buildings looming down on you, and walls with graffiti on them. The music is also pretty good. 
 You've good some Japanese Pop with English vocals and that stuff. You'll probably want to put them 
 on your iPod if you like the music a lot.
  I say that the game is worth getting, no matter if your not a hardcore DS gamer, OR a hardcore 
 gamer.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: SymphonyOfAshes
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 21, 2008 10:15 pm PT
Review:  Yes, I expected a game that was much different than all the other past Square-Enix games, but not 
 THIS different. It is hardly an RPG and cannot be put into the category of any other games, as 
 it is simply nothing like any game at all.
  
  That said, this game is VERY original in many senses. Yes, the battle system features complete 
 DS stylus slashing, making you look very odd in public, but the game itself is just very different 
 compared to many games.
  
  It has a feeling of a Japanese crowded street in like Tokyo, or some other lit up night city. But 
 then again, that is basically what the creators were trying to do. The game features a lot of J-Pop 
 music, and it just mixes in with the feel of the game very well.
  
  Though you have a lot of reading to do, and a lot of clicking the screen, it all pays off. The 
 storyline of the game is very good. You start off as a complete introvert, unwanting any friends 
 of any sort, and throughout the story, you mature. It's just very good, I mean, especially if you 
 can easily relate. (Woo.)
  
  Really, the game is pretty repetitive in general, you have to do the same thing like 3 times, the 
 storyline is what drove me to play through it. 
  
  Just play it, and you'll understand what I mean. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: anasazi23
Rating: 6.5
Date: Oct 18, 2008 9:30 am PT
Review:  You control an attitude-laden teen male and pelvis-baring bizarrely-hatted histrionic girl in this 
 "swap various skirt and boot combinations to make your campaign button pins have more power" game.
 
  
  If the above sentence makes you say, "hey, I love shopping in Japanese boutiques looking for plaid 
 dresses that have secret abilities such as raising my hit points!" then congratulations, you've 
 found a nifty game for yourself. Dno't get me wrong, I love RPGs as much as the next guy, though 
 I've always been a little hard on the JRPGs as a whole. This, however, is more "twitchy" and requires 
 you to micromanage your outfits along with your "button" which basically are different attack types 
 which you must couple with the stylus to defeat "noise" which are basically monsters. Got it? Good. 
 
  
  The story is almost unique, and the sound is cutesy pop tunes which actually aren't bad. As usual 
 from Square, there's way too much useless dialogue, made all the worse by it being delivered by 
 angst-filled teenagers.
  
  I eventually sold the game back. It's well-put together, has lots of appeal to those that like 
 this kind of thing, but it just wasn't for me. Maybe I'm getting old. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Lond69
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 14, 2008 6:24 am PT
Review:  When I first heard of The World Ends With You, or TWEWY for short, I had my reservations. Control 
 two screens at the same time? And it is a RPG? And Urban Themed?
  Guess what, I was surprised when I actually played it. Even though you might give up playing on 
 both screens at the same time and let the auto-play do its job on the upper screen, I believe this 
 won't make you like less the game.
  
  The story is very good. With every plot twist it could have. And yet, you can run it real fast, 
 if you are not the long-game type.
  
  The controls are basic, you can move with the directonal or with the stylus, and in battles, the 
 touch screen controls a "mage" character, while the directional or buttons control a "fighter" 
 character.
  
  You also have Pins, which are somewhat like materia, in FFVII. They go like this: a pin has a power, 
 be it some sort of attack, healing, status changer, or whatever. When you take it into battle, 
 it gains XP, to get stronger, it can even "evolve". However, you have three types of XP, and its 
 here it gets hard to simply battle to death to get all pins.
  
  You get clothing thru the game, which serves as status changing itens. It can get you more atk, 
 def, more time to do combos, or whatever. Also, you have food, which some kind of "permanent" status 
 changer.
  
  The soundtrack is big, but it does get old. It turns out the battles can be long, and then you 
 will see yourself listening the same music over and over. Nothing a mute can't solve.
  
  The graphics are very good, and the animation style is very eye pleasing.
  
  All in all, this 
 is a game you can't miss if you have a DS. It joins elements of good games of the past years without 
 making it awful. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kbeynon
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 14, 2008 5:05 am PT
Review:  My wife calls it "that weird game", and she's right. 'The World Ends with You' (TWEWY) is a very 
 strange game, from the inter-dimensional story premise to the pin-badge based weapon system to 
 the dual-screen, dual-character, dual-control system combat phase.
  
  Set in a modern-day Japan, you play Neku, a teenage boy with issues, waking up one day to find 
 he can see people's thoughts. Quickly caught up in a life-or-death game controlled by a group called 
 the Reapers, Neku finds himself teaming up with a partner to combat the Noise: an inter-dimensional 
 infestation of strange creatures.
  
  Neku fights the Noise using a combination of pin-badges, yup, pin-badges. And it makes for the 
 most interesting RPG weapons set-up since the D&D games of a few years back.
  
  You find yourself constantly tweaking the pin combination, trying to get the best effects whilst 
 ensuring you keep the badges growing - yes they can grow and evolve. By collecting points through 
 combat some badges can level-up to become much more powerful and sometimes completely different. 
 Your pins can even accumulate points while the DS is turned off - totting up your points when you 
 next load up the game.
  
  Pin-badges aren't the only combat system. Combat takes place on both DS screens, you on the bottom 
 screen whilst your partner occupies the top one.
  
  The direction pad controls your partner while you use the stylus to control Neku's pins. The combat 
 can get frantic at times, but it's always fun.
  
  'The World Ends with You' is a fresh take on the DS RPG which seemed, to me, to be getting bogged 
 down in derivative Japanese RPGs based on the Final Fantasy originals.
  
  Hopefully, this will be the beginning of a renaissance for the DS as developers realise the potential 
 of the console isn't achieved solely by pushing the graphics, but by discovering unique, original 
 and innovative ways to improve gameplay - 'The World Ends with You' is a great beginning for this 
 new age. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: eric11harris
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 12, 2008 9:18 pm PT
Review:  The World Ends With You, is probably the best game I have ever played in my life. It is game that 
 not only captivates and memorizes you for a billion life times, but inspires you. It makes you 
 put into perspective of what a good game is.
  
  This game, is about a boy named Neku, who wakes up on the streets of Shibuyia, a district in Tokyo, 
 with no memory of past events, other then his name. He later discovers, that he has died and has 
 been entered into a game, that if won, grants you a second chance at life. This game is called 
 the Reaper's Game, a game run by mysterious beings called Reapers. Reapers control monsters called 
 Noise, and normally send these creature to attack and wipe you from existence. It is your job to 
 survive these events and get your life back.
  
  The World Ends With You, is not, in my opinion, an rpg, because of the mixture of elements that 
 makes this game so innovative. The game is more of a mix of an RPG, with action and adventure, 
 and a little bit of puzzle solving and role playing. This mixture of elements, ensure the best 
 and most inspiring gaming experience, that will change your perspective of gaming and the ds.
 
  
  So what makes this such a good game? Is it the story, concept, gameplay, music, presentation or 
 the characters? If I were to answer that question I would answer that everything makes this the 
 best game one earth. The story is moving and addicting, the gameplay is insanely revolutionary, 
 the music is stellar, the presentation is beautiful, the characters are realistic, and the concept 
 is so awesome, that it completely opens new boundaries to gaming that no one thought possible.
 
  
  So in the end, if you don't get this game, you have not played a REAL game, meaning that its the 
 game that will change you forever.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: goren1
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 6, 2008 4:44 pm PT
Review:  The world ends with you is one of the best games out for the ds so far.
  
  Controls
  Everything is controlled with the stylus. The only real problem is if you have a pin (your attacks) 
 that you slash to use and one that you slash up to use it will occasionally it will use one instead 
 of the other.
  
  Graphics
  The graphics fit with the game perfectly and are beautifuly drawn.
  
  Sound
  The game has 
 some great music and more can be unlocked throughout the game.
  
  Story
  You play as Neku. When Neku wakes up inthe middle of the road in tokyo he recives a text and is 
 attacked by noise he's forced to be partners with shiki who is also being attacked. After partnering 
 with shiki you learn 
  more about why the noise are attacking neku. 
  
  The story is great and the diolouge is well written.
  
  Overall The world ends with you is 
 a great game with a great story it's worth getting if your looking for a good rpg. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: CaT-KiLLeR
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 2, 2008 10:12 pm PT
Review:  Considero sin Exagerar, The World en With You uno de mis juegos favoritos de todos los tiempos, 
 este juego lo tiene todo para exprimir tu Nintendo DS, tanto como su apartado grafico, su OST y 
 su Ecepcional Gameplay, este juego es una recomendacion para todos.
  
  Su apartado grafico se basa en dibujos en 2d creados por el dibujante de KH, todo es en 2D, pero 
 el juego permite un movimiento en profundidad y se ve ambientado en Shibuya de la actualidad, sobresaltando 
 lo q es la parte urbana de la ciudad, con grafitis y tendencias de Musica Electronica.
  
  Su OST es uno de los OST's mas acertados que he tenido la oportunidad de escuchar para un juego, 
 todas las canciones son buenas y son Enganchantes, tiende a ser repetitivo al principio por la 
 poca cantidad de canciones q tienes, pero a medida q las vas comprando en la tienda aumenta la 
 variedad, las canciones no son conocidas pero sin ellas el juego no seria el mismo
  
  Su gameplay es Diferente y es posiblemente el primer Atractivo del juego, eres 2 personajes a la 
 vez
  uno se mueve con el D-Pad o los Botones ABXY y el otro se maneja con el Stylus; este es el personaje 
 principal y es el q usa Pins q vendrian siendo los ataques y/o ayudas los cuales se usan dependiendo 
 de la clase de Pin de distintas formas, diferentes factores como el Espectacular Light Puck hacen 
 de las batallas mas interesantes ya q deberas aprender a usar a ambos personajes para poder vencer 
 a los jefes por ej o a los Noises Grandes.
  
  El replay value de este juego se basa en una lista de objetivos a completar por cada dia q pasa 
 en el juego, completar la coleccion de pins y en el Tin Pin Slammer.
  
  No es un juego facil pero tampoco imposible de Pasar, por eso creo q el nivel de dificultad es 
 perfecto.
  
  de verdad es una compra asegurada, recomendacion 100% para los que kieren un reto para su DS 
::::::

::::::
UserName: shyguy1234
Rating: 10
Date: Sep 30, 2008 5:53 am PT
Review:  This is the ds game we have been waiting for! The game is bound to pull someone in. Square Enix has 
 created a masterpiece!
  Graphics:9/10. Well these graphics are some of the best on the ds!
  Gameplay:10/10. The game is very creative by using both screens and the stylus and the control pad. That 
 may sound confusing, but the game is very forgiving.
  Music:10/10. GAH! The game's music is AWESOME! IT will get in your head and refuse to come out. You'll 
 probably find yourself humming the tunes at the wrong times. (Actual score for music:11/10)
  (Actual) Difficulty:?/10. Well the difficulty can be changed, so it depends!
  Replay value:10/10. Once 
 you beat the game, you get a "chapter"option in the phone menu. So you can replay your favorite chapter.
 
  Boss/Enemy fights:10/10. Best fights in a ds game.
  Storyline:10/10. GAH! (again) The game is very interesting. One time, I replayed the ENTIRE game, just 
 for the story. Also, it has very funny and odd moments.
  That about wraps it all up! (Real score:12/10) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: xAngelFuryx
Rating: 9.5
Date: Sep 24, 2008 2:04 pm PT
Review:  When I first heard that Square Enix was going to make a game for the DS, I was ecstatic. However, 
 owning both a PSP and DS literally dulled my senses for the most part. I wasn't as happy as I would 
 have been were I just a DS owner. The introduction to the entire adventure left me a little confused 
 overall, but nothing that a few minutes of acquainting myself with the controls didn't fix. A few 
 holes in the beginning as far as the plot goes, but that didn't take away anything from the actual 
 game. It was a breather from the regular button mashing side scrolling games I'm used to playing. 
 I actually had to interact with the touch screen, something I'm not exactly used to. The various 
 catch phrases left me wishing I was cool enough to say them in real life. In conclusion the game 
 was definitely worth the buy, and ten times it's worth as far as the pricing goes. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ramonl2
Rating: 10
Date: Sep 22, 2008 1:32 pm PT
Review:  Well let me start off, well this is one of the best games out there on the DS its got an amazing 
 story, game play, characters and its art & style is beautiful.
  
  Ok you start off with Neku Sakuraba :main character , (A little Antisocial) a Teen who mysteriously
 
  finds himself in the middle of a crossing (Aka the Scramble) then he keeps going 
  to find strange creatures attacking him.
  
  Then he meets a young girl called Shiki and tells 
 him he's stuck in a game with some so called reapers they tell him that he's dead and the only 
 way to come back to life is to win the game.
  
  The game has a very interesting story and its fun to pick up & play non-stop. It got me hooked 
 2 hour straight the 1st time I turned it on. SE has done a very good job capturing the style and 
 culture of Urban life.
  
  Other thing the game runs smoothly and its colorful well animated and the character designs are 
 awesome. Its really one of the best DS games I've Played so if you have the chance to buy it pay 
 it with no regrets.
  
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Ponytrony
Rating: 10
Date: Sep 22, 2008 5:28 am PT
Review:  It's not often that Square Enix comes out with some genuinely new IP. Which is hardly a criticism, 
 since the vast majority of all those Final Fantasy and Dragon Quest games and spin-offs are nothing 
 short of utterly brilliant. It's just that, after playing The World Ends With You, you'll wish 
 the company would do more of this sort of thing, because it's really, really good. And in many 
 ways it's a bit of a departure for the company. Having built its reputation as one of the world's 
 leading publishers by building exotic new worlds, this game sees Square Enix cement it by entering 
 the real world: Tokyo's fashionable Shibuya district, to be precise. Like the real thing, it's a 
 bewildering place where you'll find yourself assailed by people and noise and incoming cellphone 
 texts. Unlike the real thing, you'll also be inundated by the random thoughts of strangers, and 
 a combination of sounds and sights that are all a bit reminiscent of Sega's cult classic, Jet Set 
 Radio  which can only be a good thing. The game starts with your character, Neku, having woken 
 up at the famous Shibuya crossing, discovering that he's only got seven days to live. Unfortunately, 
 with no memories to go on, he must quickly make sense of his surroundings  made more complicated 
 by the mysterious Game, being played by the even more mysterious Reapers  who hang around looking 
 moody in hoodies, putting up invisible walls that restrict your movement till you follow their 
 orders.
  
  At the start of the game (and the Game) , Neku finds himself outfitted with a pin (sometimes known 
 to Brits as a badge) , which allows him to see the meandering thoughts of Shibuya's many passers-by, 
 as well as the nefarious noise  various freaky enemies that haunt the streets. Those streets aren't 
 quite the same as the real Shibuya. The big brands that dominate the real-life urban cityscape 
 have been replaced, so the Starbucks on the corner becomes the Outback caf; the famous 109 department 
 store becomes the 104 building; and HMV becomes AMX. But the art direction does an excellent job 
 of capturing the atmosphere of the real thing, and in many ways, the game's utilisation of this 
 real-world (ish) setting, is inspired, and one of its strongest points. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: firemblemlordjr
Rating: 10
Date: Sep 21, 2008 8:47 am PT
Review:  If you're checking The World Ends With You (abbreviated) as TWEWY from now on) out, and you're looking 
 for some reviews, you most likely already know the basic premise of the game, so I won't bog you 
 down with that.
  
  Gameplay:
  All controlled with the stylus, TWEWY is an action-RPG. Your characters gain levels and stats, 
 and need equipment to boost defense, all that normal stuff. However, the clothes you wear all have 
 a certain Bravery required to wear them. So, if your male character managed to get a lot of bravery, 
 he can wear women's clothing... yeah.
  
  The main character is Neku, who uses Pins to battle. There are hundreds of pins you can collect 
 and level up, and each pin offers a special attack or skill. Some are activated by slashing an 
 enemy with the stylus, some by drawing lines, some by blowing into the mic. But the most interesting 
 thing about the battle system is that on the top screen another character is fighting by using 
 the control pad arrows to deal special attacks.
  
  Graphics:
  Beautifully hand-drawn sprites show that 2D can still rock. The anime style works well and the 
 characters look cool.
  
  Sound:
  One of the best parts of this game, TWEWY has an amazing soundtrack. There are many, many songs 
 in the game, most of which are actually sung. There's even a soundtrack already made and released.
 
  
  Story:
  One of the best stories I've ever seen in a game. Just when you think you know what's going to 
 happen, there's a plot twist. The characters are real, the dialogue is believable and well-written 
 (with the exception of one character) . It leaves quite a lot of questions unanswered and plot threads 
 left dangling, but you'll find out those points later in the extra levels.
  
  Replay:
  After you beat the game (it took me a week) , you can then access any level you want, with a few 
 new bonus objectives, each unlocking notes that shed some light on the interesting world. It will 
 last you a long time.
  
  Bottom line is, if you like RPGs or pretty much games, and you don't mind reading many word bubbles 
 (which you can skip if you want) , you'll love this game. Get The World Ends With You, you won't 
 regret it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: B14z3n_F3fnir
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 19, 2008 7:57 pm PT
Review:  From the makers of Kingdom Hearts, why wouldn't this be a great game? In my opinion, I feel that 
 at least 90% of all KH players would love this game.
  
  First off, the two screen play allows this game to be distinctive. It gives the game depth to it, 
 and shows that regular 'button-mashing' can be used to its advantage.
  
  Woa, button-mashing? Not quite.. the top-screen is button pressing for one out of your two playable 
 characters. The bottom screen (touch) adds a whole different way you HAVE to play, no choice. The 
 top screen has an option called 'auto' allowing you to ignore it.. but where's the fun in that? 
 There is none in ignoring it.. it's half the game.
  
  No online here, but, no online needed. This is an amazing game.. what's the point to an online 
 game if there's just no reason to have it there?
  
  Throughout the game, your party members switch out, and new abilities can be available due to this 
 factor.
  
  As I was looking through the images for this game, it didn't appeal to me as a game worth playing.. 
 but as a loyal KH fan, I bought it just to see what else the makers can show-off. It was way, WAY 
 much more than I expected it would be..
  
  All in all, you're missing out if you do not decided to buy this game.. although it's not 'new' 
 at this point, it's a game I still play to this day. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: paulthom12345
Rating: 7.5
Date: Sep 19, 2008 4:21 am PT
Review:  I thought this game was pretty darn good, i really liked the way you could set your partner to 
 do the fighting. The things i didnt like were how there was no good map and the story seemed a 
 bit lame at the start.
  
  The whole fighting stlye really made me enjoy this game. I really liked the fact that when you 
 were not playing the game your pins leveled up with made it so you didnt have to constantly play 
 the game to make sure you leveled up. Its a bummer it didnt have some kind of online play. I would 
 have liked that a lot.
  
  Overally it was a good game and really takes advantage of the ds touch screen. It also tries a 
 completley new way of fighting which made for a refreshing ds title. I would reccomend people just 
 persist through the start if you dont like it. It gets lots better. Enjoy! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Eric721
Rating: 10
Date: Sep 21, 2008 7:32 pm PT
Review:  This game is really awesome. It has an excellent soundtrack, funny characters, and a plot that 
 can't be beat.
  
  The battle system in this game is very unique. You have to characters fighting at once. One on 
 each screen. This can be tricky at first, but you'll get used to it because the top screen character's 
 controls are very simple. Also, you never actually have to fight enemies, but you gain experience 
 when you. You can chain more and more battles as the game goes on, so towards the end of the game 
 you can chain some ridiculous amount of enemies, like 36 or something. With each extra enemy that 
 you fight, you get better item drops, but the enemies also get harder. The items that you get from 
 enemies are called pins. Pins will give you new moves to use as Neku on the bottom screen. The 
 harder the difficulty you play on, the better pin drops you get. You can change the difficulty 
 whenever you want, so you won't get discouraged if you set it too hard or easy because it's changeable. 
 
  
  So basically, this is a great RPG, and I highly recommend it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: wii_freak99
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 20, 2009 8:46 am PT
Review:  The World Ends With You is a great game. Although there has been virtually no advertisement nor 
 hype, the response from the public has been fantastic. This game is an intergration of classic 
 Square Enix RPGs and the modern Japanese culture. The the soundtrack oozes Tokyo and the art hints 
 at anime. 
  
  This is a great game if you are fond of lengthy storylines and a long stream of text. However tedious 
 it may seem, there are some genuine heartfelt moments that may draw some tears. Although certain 
 handheld restrictions apply, such as no continous dialogue, this game does a great job of capitalizing 
 on the touch screen feature of the DS. 
  This game has extraordinary re-playability as there are an almost infinite amount of unlockable 
 items. 
  
  The soundtrack is revolutionary, with songs you would find on a 16 year olds iPod. With over 20 
 tracks, this will leave you craving for more. 
  
  
  The World Ends With You has extreme potential. There have been rumors that a Wii version is being 
 developed. This rivals Final Fantasy. General outbursts of blasphemy aside, this is truly a great 
 game. I 100% recommend that you pick it up.
  
  
  
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: sony_vaio
Rating: 10
Date: Sep 16, 2008 3:31 pm PT
Review:  Since buying my DS over 1 year ago I have bought many DS games. Some, like Club House Games and 
 New Super Mario Bros. have been real classics for my collection. Alot of games have be average 
 at best. That is until I came upon a game called T. W. E. W. Y. I have never really been a big fan 
 of the RPG since most of the time it is set in mid-evil times, but reading about thsi game it seem 
 really refreshing so I took a chance and bough it. This game is not only the best rpg for the DS 
 it is by far the best DS I have bought. You all know the main story so I won't go down that road 
 but let me tell you this game is simply incredible. The story, the characters, the graphics, the 
 pin system, the stats, and the gameplay are all A+ and on par with home consoles. Yes it is that 
 in-depth. Words can't describe this game you HAVE to go out and buy it. You don't play this game, 
 you become it. If you only buy one DS game this year let it be this one regardless if you are a 
 RPG fan or not. This game should have serious consideration for Game of the Year in my opinion. 
 Its that good. I recommend it for everyone no matter what type of gamer you are. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Jameseylefebure
Rating: 9.5
Date: Sep 8, 2008 2:34 am PT
Review:  The World ends with you is a nonstop fast paced action rpg from the amazing Square Enix. You take 
 center stage as a 15 year old moody boy who has been sucked into a game that he has no idea about. 
 Obviously as the game progresses the story expands and you find out about the game that you are 
 stuck in and meat a wealth of really interesting characters.
  The animation for this game is absolutely amzing! It literally is at some points like playing in 
 a manga cartoon or on a comic strip, Square Enix have moved away from their realistic movies and 
 instead made it more DS friendly and let me tell you it works! I've never been sucked into a stroyline 
 so quickly in a game before as I have with the World Ends With you.
  The game dynamics also work very well in it's favour - in RPG's it seems that almost anyone can 
 throw a fireball or cast down a lightening bolt with no explination. Well in TWEWY its expalined 
 as "psychs'" which are little badges that your character can equip, each psych has it's own experience 
 bar and gets stronger as you level it up - some even evolve into stronger versions when they hit 
 a set level. This is a nice little touch as you will find yourself having "just one more fight" 
 to try and see if your psych will evolve or not. Another nice touch is that the game will also 
 grtant you experience when your not playing - so when you load the game you will be granted experince 
 depending on how long you've not played for!!
  Next up is the controls and this is where the game gets confusing and interesting. Your party constists 
 of two people - one on the top screen (the secondry character that will join your party) and the 
 main character on the bottom screen. You control your main characters actions in battle with the 
 stylus. You see each pin has a set move that must be performed on the screen with the stylus to 
 active it's power - for example ice blast needs you to slash upwards on an empty space with the 
 stylus while the electric shield requires you to draw a circle around your hero.
  While your doing this you have the option to control your secondry charcter on the top screen with 
 the D-pad buttons belting out combo's that will eventually let the two characters merge and perfom 
 an all enemy attacking special move (which i must say looks amazing!!)
  All in all this was a HIGHLY enjoyable game and I would recogmend it to ANYONE who is looking for 
 something a little different in their RPG's i would recogmend this in a second! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Naedeslus
Rating: 9.5
Date: Sep 7, 2008 7:45 pm PT
Review:  RPG's tend to be fairly similar. Most involve a group of heroes to try and save the world. Some 
 have tried to breakt he mold, some being futuristic [FFVII, Xenogears] while others do things that 
 no other game would do, such as dimension traveling, or other sorts. Yet most feel very similar. 
 That is not a bad thing by any means, but sometimes what a RPG needs to do, is break the mold.
 
  
  The World Ends With You does that, and does it well. Starting off you play as a teen aged boy named 
 Neku, i'll start off right the bat. Neku at first seemed like a Squall Leonhart rip off. With his 
 loner attitude, and how his style seemed reminiscent of Sora from Kingdom Hearts. At first, to 
 tell the truth, I did not like him.
  
  Then as the game progresses, I began to really like him. He had a huge character growth and development 
 that alot of protagonists lack. It was nice, and in time, I really liked him, and was glad he was 
 the lead. He became rather deep at times, and was just a great character over all. You have a limited 
 cast, but each character is well fleshed out and done. You should like each character, a rarity, 
 but they obviously did quality instead of quantity.
  
  The story is quite gripping and in most respects, one of the best plot lines in a RPG in years. 
 I rank it up there with Final Fantasy VII and X's. It truly does start very interesting at the 
 start, and grips the player the entire way through, with many genuine plot twists, that I just 
 did not see coming. It feels a bit like The Matrix, but that's a good thing, for it has it's own 
 fresh on originality too. 
  
  The gameplay is quite addicting. It's an action RPG. Yet it is built so you use both screens in 
 combat. It may sound confusing, and it took me half way to truly get it, but once you get past 
 the learning curve, it is a blast in all respects. It's challenging, fun and flashy. It has many 
 difficulty modes to.
  
  I played it on normal, which was easy for the first half, but in the second half got harder. Also 
 more difficulty modes appear in the game, and with a feature that when you beat it, to allow you 
 to go back to any chapter, is rewarding. It gives it a serious replay value. It even features some 
 of the most cool boss fights i've experienced.
  
  Battles are not random, you can fight whenever you want, which is a good feature, and the combat 
 is very entertaining that, you will want to seek out fights. If it has one complaint, it is though 
 that there just is not enough environments. You just explore one city, that's it. Most of the game 
 you go to the same locations. It feels like missed opportunity.
  
  The graphics are nicely done, hand drawn with detailed sprites. It goes to show that 2D games can 
 and still look good on the DS. I am infact glad at the art style, rather than it being 3D [which 
 the DS isn't that good with.] and everything is nicely detailed, and animated. The graphics feel 
 a bit like Chrono Trigger meets Kingdom Hearts in a way, which may sound odd, but they work, well.
 
  
  The sound is pretty good. There are a few bad tracks, but for the most part, the J-pop and J-rock 
 works well in the context of the game, though it's a love or hate it affair. I really liked a few 
 songs, but were annoyed by a few.
  
  All and all. The World Ends With You has addicting game play, a complex story, and replay value. 
 Great production values too. If you like action RPG's it's a must have. If you have a DS, get the 
 game, it's very well worth it, and is probably one of the best games for the DS, or in awhile.
 
  
  Story:10/10
  Graphics:10/10
  Gameplay:9/10
  Sound:9/10
  SCORE:9.5/10
  
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Cecil_Highwind
Rating: 10
Date: Sep 6, 2008 2:29 pm PT
Review:  If you don't buy this, I will hurt you very badly. Very, very badly. Just kidding. But still buy 
 it.
  
  Story: This game has the greatest story I have ever seen. There are some of the best twists and 
 turns I have ever seen in a game. Don't think that I am just some idiot who sees plays Anubis 2 
 (I haven't actually played it, look it up, it got a 1.5) and thinks it is the greatest game ever. 
 I have played Final Fantasies, Pokemon, and other such games. I know a good story when I see one. 
 
  You are thrust into the Reapers Game, in which you must complete each day's missions to survive. 
 There are 7 days. Each mission has a time limit, but there is no time limit for you. Let me say 
 this again, you are not timed. All of the characters are put into the story for just the right 
 amount of time, and not disposed of too soon. 10/10
  
  Gameplay: Amazing gameplay. The battle system allows for a perfect amount of customization. You 
 can choose pins and clothes, but this does not require too much micromanagement. The idea of having 
 you digest your food is great, and the brand mechanic also works well. 10/10
  
  Boss Battles: Great boss battles. The bosses have just enough strategy and just enough brute force 
 to make them exciting. 10/10
  
  Music: Interesting music. Almost all of the music is based around lyrics, but that makes it unique. 
 Music doesn't just keep cycling, the songs are long enough so that you won't get tired of one song 
 playing all the time. 10/10
  
  Graphics: The graphics are great, and I have no complaints. I have not yet had one slowdown, and 
 am perfectly happy with the way everything looks. 10/10
  
  Overall: This game blows your mind away with the amount of content. Everything works perfectly, 
 and I have no complaints. Ii just hope that Square Enix makes a sequel about another area.
  
  Cecil_Highwind 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sringangel
Rating: 8.5
Date: Sep 6, 2008 12:41 am PT
Review:  First off, I played on the emulator because, I don't have a NDS at the moment, and the chance to 
 play the game I always wanted to play was there. That is all. 
  
  The game starts off with a emo kid named Neku Sakuraba, who wears a headphone 24/7 to block the 
 noise of people around him. He hates socializing because it seems to him; everyone is stupid, backstabbers 
 and whatnot. Don't we all feel the same sometimes jeez. Before he/we know it, he woke up at the 
 middle of Shibuya Street and was forced to play a life-death game to get a second chance in life.
 
  
  Storyline
  I regretted for spoiling myself in the beginning. The plot is very engaging. You will be thinking 
 "wow this is a short game", and suddenly your thrown back into the same beginning again which makes 
 you go, HUH?!" There are a lot of plot holes in the game, even to the end, because the game 
 sort of just ended abruptly in my opinion. But apparently, there are secret reports that were SUPPOSE 
 to explain the plot holes of the game. I'll try to get them when I have the time.
  
  Gameplay 
  NDS being a double screened console was able to almost fully utilize every single 
 button and stylus to its max. First will be the keypad controls which are used to control your 
 second player/AI at the top and the bottom will be the full use of the stylus to control Neku. 
 Its like, a mix of Wii and PS2 at a small gadget. There are different kinds of pins which gives 
 you different kinds of power/magic. Some are useful but some are downright hard to control. You 
 can choose up to 6 pins if you are able to fully open all the pin slots. 
  
  System
  Equipping your clothes is like dressing up your Barbie. I kid you not. Different area/streets of 
 Shibuya have different types of trends ranging from Gothic-Lolita, Rock, Punk, Casual, Sporty and 
 much more. Each clothes you wear will give you an extra boost of Attack power or percentage. But 
 equipping the wrong threads gains you a minus. A combination of the same type of threads and pins 
 will give you the chance to affect the areas trend popularity to suit your needs. 
  
  Mini-games
  There is only two mini-game to play in this game. One will be the Tin Pin Slammer 
 battle which I failed with utter misery, and the other is hunting Pig Noise. Hunting the Pig Noise 
 is HARD. One being, some runs fast, some needs a certain pin to defeat and some even needs you 
 to close the NDS lid right when the game starts. It can be fun when you win but downright frustrating 
 when you have to try again. The Reaper conditions to pass through their walls are a must to proceed 
 through the game, but it can also be under the mini-games category I guess. It feels like being 
 ragged sometimes because you can be asked to go buy them food or dress up fully of a certain trend 
 of clothes which gains you to be laughed at only. (swts) But most of the time will be spent on 
 fighting Noise.
  
  Music
  A full blast of hip hop and pop is used in this game. Although, it's kind of surprising to have 
 a slow song at the end after listening to so much rapping. But considering the ending of the game, 
 I guess choosing "Lullaby For You" by JYONGRI (Is she a Korean?) was appropriate to a degree. Having 
 hip-hop/ rap for a Square-Enix game was definitely a first, since, everyone knows how much the 
 company loves orchestra-blend music.
  
  All in all,
  It's a great game. Highly recommended to all NDS holders. The philosophy behind it is actually 
 quite deep too, but also normal as it relates much about real-life scenarios. When I get my NDS, 
 I'll get the game too and play it without lag and chompy sounds for once. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: penguingamer13
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 17, 2009 11:08 pm PT
Review:  Made buy the guys over at Square and some guys at Jupiter comes one of the best games I have seen 
 in a while. It is about this an anti-social teenager named Neku waking up with amnesia in the middle 
 of a intersection in Sheboya with a pin in his hand that can have him read minds and learning he 
 has 7 day to do these tasks and if he dosent he is erased. The problem his is invisible to the 
 people except for other people completing these tasks. The battle area is where it is fun the top 
 screan is nekus partner and on the bottom is neku and to kill the enemies you must control both 
 characters either by pressing the d pad (for righties) or using the letters. (for lefties) If it 
 is to hard set the game on easy or your ally on auto play for your ease. To control neku you just 
 do different things with the pen each one a different comand like tapping the screen near a enemy 
 will fire bullets in that direction. Overall a wonderful story fun mini games and getting all the 
 items is harder than it looks!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Carl0009
Rating: 9.5
Date: Aug 31, 2008 4:48 pm PT
Review:  The world ends with you is a solid, well made and fun game. It's an action RPG, where you trigger 
 different skills with several stylus inputs. 
  Story:
  
  It definitely pushes you onward to see what further answers and question lie hidden further ahead 
 in the game, it really hocks you up from the mere beginning and it keeps that way until the very 
 end of it. 
  The Characters are really a hit or miss thing, actually, some may find them fruity while others 
 deep and compelling, but if you frequently keep on track on Anime characters, you will sure like 
 the ones presented here.
  Gameplay:
  
  It's fun to use the different array of skills you have at your disposal, but in some fights they 
 must be used wisely and strategically, so don't thinking tapping on the DS like a mad man will 
 get you through this game, especially in the harder difficulties.
  Music:
  
  It's awesome, period. It really sets the mood in the game perfectly; you may even find yourself 
 humming some of the songs. And some cut scenes feature good voice acting.
  
  Graphics:
  2D sprites in a hybrid 2D-3D map mix up perfectly well here, Characters look sharp, enemies as 
 well. Square has yet to fail in this department.
  
  Bottom line is, if you remotely like RPGs, or even care for a good, complex, well presented and 
 done game, The world ends with you is without a doubt, a mist have in your DS.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: sykomyko
Rating: 5
Date: Aug 31, 2008 6:31 am PT
Review:  I try and try to see what everyone sees in this game and just cant figure it out. All you do is 
 read for 30 min. and then you get to scribble on the ds while this little fruity guy's dancing 
 around the screen for a couple seconds and then it's back to reading and watching this crazy girl 
 twitch and freak out every couple of seconds. The music just plain sucks and starts to make your 
 skin crawl if you play this game longer than few seconds. Now I gave this game a 5/10 for the fact 
 I could not stand to finish the game and wanted to be fair, but I'd rather give it a big fat zero! 
 So I think I will take this game outside and burn it to put it out of its misery and make sure 
 it does not get back into circulation. Ha... ha... all you who gave this a great review, good joke, 
 you really got me on this one! AND YOU SQUARE ENIX... STICK WITH FINAL FANTASY! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ROSSGOUGH
Rating: 9.5
Date: Aug 28, 2008 6:46 pm PT
Review:  As I have finally completed The World Ends With You, let me share my thoughts on my experience. 
 At long last the mysteries of Shibuya UG, or most of them at least, have been concluded!
  
  I believe this game is possibly the best DS game out there at the moment. Although to be fair, 
 it really does depend on your taste. Clearly if you tend not to like Square Enix games or hate 
 RPGs then you should probably turn away from here. However, besides keeping the traditional RPG 
 aspects, at the same time it feels nothing like one! TWEWY manages to maintain the fun of collecting 
 items and leveling up etc. but at the same time introduces a whole new system of fighting that 
 will have you perplexed the first time you experience it. There is a distinct feel to it, and if 
 you don't get used to the controls in the first while of the game, it could get pretty annoying 
 for you..
  
  
  
  The game is set in the Shibuya district of Tokyo, a popular area full of youth culture. The style 
 of the game and it's surroundings reflect the modernity of the city. It lets you visit the landmark 
 sites such as the Statue of Hachiko and the magnificent scramble crossings as well as featuring 
 fictional places. 'Shibuya River' is introduced some way through the game, and becomes quite a 
 significance to the plot. This is just one of the many well designed areas for you to come across.
 
  
  
  The story revolves around a group of teenage 'players', who in order to play the Reapers' Game 
 have had to of died somehow. In the center of this group, and taking role of the main character, 
 is Neku Sakuraba.
  
  At first, Neku is a friend only to himself. He believes it unnecissary to have to like or make 
 contact with any other person, who would only be a hinderance to him, naturally isolating himself 
 from the rest of society. The only person he feels he really connects with the the popular designer 
 CAT, who is an unknown identity and creator of the player pin Neku wears. The player pin is perhaps 
 the most important of these pins. It enables Neku to read the minds of people from the RG, RealGround, 
 which refers to the living side of Shibuya.
  
  Through meeting other Players and being forced to work as a team, Neku's personality begins to 
 develop. Through the life threatening games he faces together with his comrade for that week, Neku 
 learns to get along with people, and discovers that instead of seeing eye-to-eye with everyone, 
 it's the aspect of difference that makes living so exciting.
  
  
  Refering back to the RG, Shibuya is split into two parts. The RG and the UG, UnderGround. The UG 
 is where the Reapers are in charge. They are lead by a line of command beginning with the Composer. 
 Throughout the story, the Composer is responsible for everything happening in the UG, and he has 
 the ultimate power to do whatever he wishes with the Players of his 'Game'. Next in command is 
 the Conductor, who issues orders to the Game Master in charge of that week's Game. It's the GM's 
 job to dish out the daily missions, which the players recieve via text on their mobile phone. The 
 missions tend to reflect the personality of the GM, hence helping understand the objective. Missions 
 can vary, sometimes telling Neku to reach a certain place or defeat a certain noise. Underneath 
 the GM are the Reapers, who survey the UG with the order of 'hands off' until the last day of the 
 week. Only then are the Reapers allowed to go in for the kill and attempt to 'erase' any Player 
 they come across, removing them from all existence entiarly.
  
  The different people Neku comes across in his journey make the game a great pleasure. The profiles 
 of these characters are so well thought out and are truely original, drawing the person playing 
 the game in from the word 'go'. Even the shop assistants are interesting!
  
  
  
  That should maybe have you wondering in terms of storyline and the overall adventure since it only 
 just scratches the surface that is TWEWY, and as for gameplay, it is just as fleshed out. Both 
 screens of the DS are used in a strange way with an interesting combat system..
  
  Neku uses special powered 'pins' to harness the 'psych' attached to that pin. Each pin requires 
 a different use of the stylus which can range from scratching the 'Noise', who are the basic enemies 
 of the game; creatures attracted by the negetive energy and shadows of Shibuya, to tapping, circling 
 and pressing different parts of the interface.
  
  Meanwhile.. on the top screen your partner fights the noise in a second dimension. In order for 
 the noise to be defeated they must be 'erased' from each dimension, but if one player kills a noise, 
 it is removed from both. This is the same for your life. Represented by a green bar, your life 
 spans the length of both screens vertically on the right hand side. It is shared by both Players 
 on each screen, so if Neku is taking enough damage, the green within the bar will dissapear onto 
 your partners screen untill completely drained.
  
  The secondary character is controlled by using the D-pad, or ABXY buttons for leftys, to input 
 different combinations on a direction map which appears on-screen at a push of one of the directions. 
 However, if it all proves too much you can set the second player to auto, which lets the computer 
 fight for you.. not always reliable mind you. On top of this, there is a unique system which encourages 
 the player to fulfill a certain task whilst fighting. Depending on your partner, you are rewarded 
 for being able to match attacks with a certain number or picture at the top of the screen. This 
 causes a large pin to appear on Neku's screen if done properly and allows you to use a 'fusion' 
 attack, which has two stages and deals a good amount of damage to all enemies on screen. Not to 
 mention healing you a small bit. Difficulty varied for me with different partners, as i found it 
 harder to do with certain people.
  It all sounds very confusing and right enough, it is a difficult system to get the hang of but 
 there is a tutorial at the beginning which gives you the basics and gets you acquainted with the 
 fighting. If you dedicate enough time to mastering it, it can be a joy erasing Noise, and genuinely 
 fun!
  
  Exploring Shibuya is simple. Either using the stylus or D-pad, you are able to navigate Neku and 
 his partner through the streets and back alleyways to their objective. You can explore the many 
 shops lined up along the street fronts, purchase clothes, pins and stat boosts for your characters 
 which is all vital to your success.
  
  
  
  Graphically, TWEWY is a dream. Smooth animations to tie parts of the story together are wonderfully 
 done, and make you wish there was more to watch. Square Enix have re-created Shibuya in a beautiful 
 way. Voice acting in parts of the game is great also. Particularly the ending. I thought it was 
 awesome and such a well deserved close to the game.
  
  
  There are numerous other small but secretly deep aspects to the overall build-up of the game. For 
 example, clothes and trends. You can equip both characters with different items of clothing, each 
 with it's own brand lable. These different garments give you boosts to your stats such as HP+ or 
 immunity to immobility. Depending on the current trend charts, you can gain be rewarded power increases 
 to your pins, or perhaps decreases depending on what brand you decide you wear, making Neku more 
 powerful and helping him defeat Noise. This is one of a dosen minor, but interesting, aspects of 
 TWEWY, and the list goes on. Money schemes, pin leveling, imprinting (playing with peoples thoughts) , 
 Reaper Creeper, effecting trends, collecting CDs, difficulty swapping, increasing stats through 
 food, wireless connectivity, end-game re-playability and much much more. These have to be experienced 
 since i don't think it can be explained as clear.
  
  
  Although completing The World Ends With You over a long period of time due to exams, I've tried 
 to recall everything i could and give you a very detailed description of the game i think is number 
 one on the Nintendo DS. I reccomend this game to everyone, even if just to sample it and see what 
 i'm talking about.
  I think it is a fantastic creation, and hope that perhaps in the future there could be a link in 
 the series, although i am happy with the way the game has ended and not on the DS have i experienced 
 a story as delightful.
  
  Well done Square Enix, another amazing and original franchise to add to the list! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Godofnerdyness
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 28, 2008 1:30 am PT
Review:  The Good: Great cast of characters, Spectacular story, Addicting Gameplay, Funny Dialogue, Nice 
 Soundtrack.
  
  The Bad: Getting used to the game may be hard for some at first, some bosses are ridiculously tough.
 
  
  The World Ends With You (TWEWY) is an Action RPG for the beloved DS. Many people are turned off 
 by RPGs because of turn-based combat. While I myself don't mind turn-based combat, you'll be happy 
 to know the combat system in TWEWY is far from turn-based and is one of the best combat systems 
 I've seen in an RPG.
  
  Story --
  
  You are Neku, orange haired teen with lots of angst. You wake up in the middle of Shibuya (A city 
 in Japan) , confused. After a few events, you find out you're a player in somethingg called The 
 Game, where you are invisible to everyone around you except other Players and Reapers. Reapers 
 are sort of like Officers for The Game, making sure rules are obeyed and such. The goal of the 
 game is to find another player to partner with and survive for 7 days. During these 7 days you 
 are attacked by Noise, strange monster creatures that will attack you. If you survive, you'll be 
 freed. I won't go any further so I don't spoil the story, but like in many RPGs, the journey starts 
 simple but gains mainy twists and turns and will keep you on the edge of... Whatever you sit on 
 while you play your DS. The toilet seat, couch, whatever floats your boat. However, the story at 
 the beginning of the game is very simple and may not hold you if you only play for story (Which 
 would be strange, imo) . You'll meet plenty of lovable characters and quote what they say for years.
 
  
  Overall, The Story is very well written and will draw you in. 9 / 10 
  
  Gameplay --
  
  When you're not in combat, you'll be walking around Shibuya, talking to people, 
 buying food to raise your stats., buying clothes to make Neku and his partner stronger and performing 
 tasks for Reapers to get into the next area. Every day your cellphone will receive a message telling 
 you your Mission for that day, and obviously your goal is to complete that mission. Of course, 
 there is no real time limit -- You could leave your DS running for a year and the mission wouldn't 
 fail. But let's get to the interesting parts.
  
  Neku wears Pins, but no ordinary pins. These pins each have their own unique power that can be 
 used in battle, burning enemies, healing, or anything else. The pins you choose to equip will be 
 brought into battle with you. One pin that is always equipped (But won't take up space since it 
 is 100% necessary) is a pin that allows Neku to read peoples minds and see Noise to fight when 
 he's not in battle. Call it the scanner... If you want to get into a fight for whatever reason, 
 scan the area and then tap the noise on your touch screen to enter a fight. Once in the fight, 
 Neku will be on the bottom screen and your partnet on the top. There will be noise on both screens 
 and obviously, it's kill or be killed! With Neku, you active your pins by doing certain things 
 with the Mic. or Touch screen. Example: To create a path of fire, you must have the correct pin 
 equipped and drag across the screen until fire pops up. Now, you CAN control the top screen and 
 your partnet, but it is more than likely you'll end up letting AI take over your partner. Controlling 
 both Neku and your partner is very difficult without having vertical eyes. It is still very possible 
 to finish the game without having to control your partner, so do not worry much about this. In 
 combat, everything is real time. You move Neku around with the stylus by pointing whereever you 
 want him to go just like out of combat, and like said earlier use your Pins to kill The Noise you 
 encounter. When you win the fight, you will gain exp and be ranked according to your damage and 
 time. While it is possible to skip fights just by walking by and not scanning the area, it is a 
 very bad idea as you will have a lack of exp, then have trouble with boss fights (Then again, some 
 boss fights are just incredibly hard, overlvled or not) . But not to worry, you shouldn't be skipping 
 fights as the combat system is so addicting and fun you'll be fighting everything you see.
  
  Overall, the combat system alone is worth the 40 bucks for this lovely game, and is the strong 
 point.
  
  9.5 / 10
  
  Music --
  
  The entire soundtrack is just Japanese Pop Music. But woah woah woah, it may sound bad, but when 
 you play the game you'll find most of the tunes to be catchy, and start singing them in the shower. 
 The songs make battles exciting and will have you buying the entire soundtrack on iTunes after 
 hearing the songs a few times.
  
  8.5 / 10
  
  
  In Conclusion, The World Ends With You is the perfect RPG for the DS and should appeal to all RPG 
 fans, and hopefully attract some newcomers to the genre. It's a game that is accessible to all 
 and I highly recommend you try it, as you may end up playing it forever.
  
  A whopping 9 / 10. Amazing game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ffmotorsports51
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 25, 2008 3:16 pm PT
Review:  I got this game several months ago. I just finished it today :) . I thought that The World Ends 
 With You was an excellent game, but has a few drawbacks in my mind. I really like the setting of 
 this game. This games takes place in the Shibuya Shopping District in Tokyo, Japan. Japan has definetley 
 the coolest cities ever! Much better than here in America :) . I liked the places to explore, and 
 the graphics. In my mind, the graphics were well done :) , but a little too comic-like. The music 
 in my mind is excellent. I liked most of the music, but I somewhat wish there was a little less 
 hip-hop, and more rock :) . The characters are good in my mind. Neku is cool with his headphones 
 on. While that was the good stuff, now let me tell waht the drawbacks are. The first drawback is 
 that you can only save one file per game. The second drawback is that the battle system is confusing. 
 It's difficult controlling both of your characters. The third drawback is that the fetch quests 
 get really boring, and just make you want to wish for the item, so you don't have to buy the materials 
 for the item that you need. The fourth drawback, and last one I will mention is that some of the 
 boss battles are overwhelmingly challenging : (. While this game had its ups, and downs I still 
 enjoyed it :) . Overall, awesome Nintendo DS game, good characters, excellent soundtrack, fun, but 
 confusing gameplay, challenging battles, Tokyo rocks! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: JAB991
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 25, 2008 11:31 am PT
Review:  Someone should send a bouquet to the Square-Enix offices. Known for constantly re-hashed franchises 
 like Final Fantasy and Dragon Quest, Square-Enix produced something completely new with The World 
 Ends With You. It's tough to think of a game that oozes as much personality and originality as 
 World; it's something completely unexpected.
  
  The World Ends With You is an RPG that can serve as a great introduction to the genre for those 
 who have sworn away from it. It's simple if you want it to be, and complicated if you like it that 
 way. Combat revolves around both of the DS's screens. One character is on each screen and each 
 enemy appears twice, once on each of the screens. Though the player only controls one of the players, 
 they can still manipulate the computer player's attacks and movements, or turn that computer onto 
 auto-play mode. Through the amount of options given to the player, The World Ends With You makes 
 itself accessible to rookies without distancing hardcore RPG fans.
  
  While the top screen is reserved for the computer player, the bottom screen is where most people 
 will find the great action. Combat is controlled by pins that are worn by the game's character, 
 Neku. Each pin has a special ability and they're activated uniquely. Tapping on a certain area 
 can fire projectile weapons, slashing an enemy with the touch pad can make Neku swipe at them. 
 Some pins throw scenery at foes and others restore health. The combination of pins usable is endless 
 and there's enough variety to satisfy people who want to play with action or those who'd rather 
 keep their distance and use projectiles. Again, the pin system shows how The World Ends With You 
 can appeal to any type of gamer.
  
  A little less fun than the combat is the game's story. Though it's interesting and there are plenty 
 of twists to keep a player intrigued, it's fairly linear and takes a back seat to the game's combat 
 and visual style. To keep the story simple without giving anything away: Neku awakens one day in 
 the trendy Shibuya district of Tokyo. He learns that he is a player in a dangerous game in which 
 he has to complete daily missions for a week and failure to complete a mission results in being 
 "erased." It's a fun story and it's worth reading the dialogue in the game, but it's far from the 
 best part of the game.
  
  The best feature of The World Ends With You would definetly be its presentation. Presented as a 
 cartoon, full of vibrant colors and speech bubbles, this one of the best looking games on the DS. 
 It's stylized brilliantly and is always pleasing looking. Similarly, the game has a fantastic soundtrack. 
 Filled mostly with Japanese hip-hop and R&B, the game's music compliments the mood and visuals 
 of the game brilliantly. Even after beating the game, a couple songs will still be echoing through 
 your head.
  
  Overall, The World Ends With You is an achievement of a game. It's rather amazing how Square-Enix 
 managed to produce an RPG that can appeal to virtually anyone. Unfortunately, the story isn't as 
 fantastic as everything else in the game, and it's pretty linear, but it's still good. Really, 
 there isn't a single aspect of The World Ends With You that is note-worthy in its faults. It's 
 an overall great game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: goudan0
Rating: 9.5
Date: Aug 25, 2008 12:12 am PT
Review:  So i have been playing the world ends with you for a while now and its amazing!!!! The story is 
 where it really shines for me. its about a boy named Neku who dies in Shibuya but not knowing how. 
 so he has to compete in something called Reapers game i think. what happens is that a player must 
 sacrifice something that he or she holds dearest to. if they win the game they get it back but 
 only one player can go back. but what adds to drama is that only one of the partners can go back 
 and you'll see what happens to Nekus "first partner". what they have to do is complete a mission 
 a day which usually involves helping someone out or solving a mystery. those little mystery's and 
 peoples problems are fun to solve and read through. combats fun which is done by activating spells 
 from the touch screen. its fun but when you constantly have to kill the noise (monsters) to get 
 past a wall it gets boring. the graphics are good and "stylish" the characters are well made. in 
 the end the thing that keep me going through the game is the story. one more thing dont play this 
 game in long sessions it'll get really boring i would just play 1-2 "days" a day
  
  ps: this is my first real review 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Meru3
Rating: 10
Date: Aug 24, 2008 9:55 am PT
Review:  This is an amazing game added to the DS games. Everything is amazing. Awesome sound track, graphics, 
 unique game play, simply amazing! One of THE best games ever. I love the way you have to try hard 
 in looking and focusing on both touch screen and top screen. I had a hard time in doing that but 
 eventually I got used to it. I love listening to the awesome music! I especially love the song 
 Calling by Leah. The game play is nothing like any other. The story kept me playing the game. A 
 great place to base the game on... SHIBUYA!! :) The voice of the characters was also great. This 
 is a game RPG fans would be waiting for. I reccommend it to everyone. Keep it up!! Keep up the 
 good work in making awesome, fantastic RPG games Square Enix!!! I hope you keep making these fantastic 
 unique games...... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: luisen123
Rating: 9.5
Date: Aug 16, 2008 10:30 pm PT
Review:  How should we start? The World Ends With You is a really fast-paced action RPG with a great story 
 which will keep you wanting to know more and more.
  
  The thing about TWEWY is that it will always bring something new, so it will never look repetitive, 
 that's right, the combat at first it will feel fairly repetitive having you use a small amount 
 of pins which could be translated as the weapons of the game; later on things will change bringing 
 new stuff to the combat.
  
  Another thing we could say about combat is that it requires you to play with both screens at the 
 same time increasing the difficulty a lot since both players share the same HP and it's really 
 hard to concentrate on both of the screens, luckily the top scren can be CPU controlled but this 
 has it downfall, the AI isn't particularly good which will bring you problems in the boss battles, 
 but once you get the hang of it, it should be easier to play, and by far more entertaining.
  
  As in all of the RPG's the characters are very important, and this game is not an exception, 
 the good thing is that all of the characters are like-able, from the sarcastic Neku Sakuraba to 
 the Math addict Sho Minamimoto, whatever your personality is you'll find a character to which you 
 can relate.
  
  To wrap it all up, even if you're not a big fan of RPG's, there something about TWEWY that will 
 make you want to keep playing it even after you finished the game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GrapejuiceGamer
Rating: 9.5
Date: Aug 16, 2008 4:41 pm PT
Review:  In 2004, Square Enix collaborated with Jupiter to bring their new "Kingdom Hearts" franchise to 
 the Gameboy Advance in "Kingdom Hearts: Chain of Memories." Now, the same collaboration has produced 
 a similar action-RPG for the Nintendo DS. Where CoM's great story was hampered by unwieldy gameplay, 
 "The World Ends with You" (titled "It's a Wonderful World" in Japan) succeeds on nearly all fronts, 
 making it perhaps the most ambitious and well-made game of its kind.
  
  If you've played "Chain of Memories" you'll notice echoes of that game throughout - the character 
 designs by Final Fantasy veteran Tetsuya Nomura, the eccentric and disloyal villains, the imaginative 
 monsters, the card-based battle system (changed to pins and greatly improved in this game) , a similar 
 style of presentation, and the general quirkiness that characterizes everything that Square produces. 
 At the same time, it's so unique that even those who disliked CoM or isn't a fan of Square in general 
 is likely to enjoy this game.
  
  The plot centers on Neku Sakuraba, an antisocial teenager in modern-day Shibuya, a (non-fictional) 
 district in Tokyo. This placing of the game in a semi-real world is one of the first things that 
 sets it apart from other Square products. The game is littered with references to Japanese teen 
 culture such as cell phones, ramen, music, graffiti, and fashion, many of which are major elements 
 of gameplay or plot. Neku is one of many teenagers forced into a bizarre Game in which he is forced 
 by the manipulative Reapers to complete missions... or be erased. The game's plot, advanced by 
 sharp writing and compelling characters, is one of its strongest attributes and quickly gains speed 
 and depth as the game goes on. Plot twists come at you more rapidly than you might expect, so if 
 you don't like plot-heavy games this may be one for you to skip. In fact, a great deal of the gameplay 
 depth is not essential to the game's completion - which is not to say that there isn't gameplay 
 depth. You can complete the game without delving too deeply into the customization options. Some 
 of the personalities are exaggerated, a Square signature, but that never bothered me. "The World 
 Ends with You" is ultimately a stage for a surprisingly mature, nuanced, and touching story about 
 individuality and the need to trust others.
  
  Battle is a hugely overhauled version of the card system from CoM - so overhauled, in fact, as 
 to only vaguely remember that game. The combat, which was the weakest aspect of CoM, is far better 
 designed in this game. That said, be prepared for a learning curve as steep as a cliff. After scrambling 
 to control characters on two screens and dying repeatedly early in the game, you may be prepared 
 to throw up your arms in disgust. But stick with it - it's well worth the patience. You can let 
 the game play the top-screen character for you while you try to get a handle on the touchscreen 
 controls, and you'll be able to lower the difficulty at any time after a few hours. After a few 
 boss battles, you'll suddenly realize that the system is becoming second nature, and by the time 
 you reach the thrilling final battle (one of the best I've fought in a while) , you'll be moving 
 that touch-pen with incredible speed. Some fights require you to try new things, such as one in 
 which you must attack by shouting into the mic, and an optional enemy which can only be defeated 
 by putting the DS into sleep mode.
  
  The game's visuals are superb. The field and battle screens utilize a style similar to CoM, while 
 periodic cut-scenes include eye-popping character designs and a very stylized presentation which 
 makes use of the dual-screens. There isn't that much voice acting in the game, but the little there 
 is is quite satisfactory. Standout voices include the alternately aloof and hot-tempered Neku, 
 and the appropriately oily Joshua.
  
  Finally, I must mention the soundtrack, which will probably become this game's claim to fame. Composed 
 by Takehura Ishimoto, the soundtrack includes a wide array of excellent tracks including J-Pop, 
 rock, hip hop, and electronica. Music is truly at the heart of this game, from Neku's headphones 
 which he uses to block out the voices of others, to the Composer and Conductor who design and run 
 the Game, to a fictional music designer and major character called CAT. The entire game is about 
 teen culture, and the music forms the perfect backdrop for the plot.
  
  "The World Ends with You" is like no other game, wildly imaginative in every aspect of its design 
 including music, plot, art, and gameplay. My only real complaints are about the sharp learning 
 curve and the sometimes imprecise touchscreen controls... both small prices to pay for such a special 
 game. It's a wonderful world with "The World Ends with You."
  
  Gameplay: 8
  Graphics: 9
  Sound: 10
  Value: 8
  Tilt: 10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: wiimadness69
Rating: 10
Date: Aug 14, 2008 7:54 am PT
Review:  i love The World Ends With You (TWEWY) it is the best game i have ever played with its absolutely 
 crazy but amazing top and bottom screen fight and its seemingly never ending great storyline!! 
 it is unbelievably creative and simply a joy to play! i rated i 9.5 but then i looked again its 
 a game which i am completely addicted to and really gives me inner joy so i changed it to 10!! 
 i know it may sound over the top but it really is true!! if anyone asked me if i know a good game 
 that they should buy i would drag them to the nearest store and tell them by that 1, pointing ast 
 The World Ends With You!!! buy it buy it buy it buy it buy it buy it buy it buy it buy it buy it 
 b buy it buy it buy it buy it buy it buy it buy it buy it buy it buy it buy it buy it buy it buy 
 it buy it buy it 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ms-fable
Rating: 9.5
Date: Aug 13, 2008 9:47 pm PT
Review:  TWEWY an rpg where you have to fight two battles at once. one battle on the bottom screen where 
 you use the stylus too fight depending on the pins you chose (which I'll describe later) and one 
 on the top where you use the d pad to do combo's. The fighting on the bottom screen is done very 
 well there are a ton of different types of pins that do different types of fighting. the fighting 
 on the top screen isn't as great as on the top. Bassicly there are 3 different combo's to choose 
 from that do the same attack but have different things that depending on your partner will help 
 to activating a special attack but the combos aren't that difficult there's continuess right or 
 left and then left/right X 4 up/downX1 then some more right or lefts. The story is about this kid 
 named Neku who dies and has to participate in these games called the reaper games to come back 
 to life. The game is divided into 3 weeks each week with a different partner with a new ability 
 to use your special attack. They all work fairly well but I did find the final partner a bit harder 
 then the others. The game takes 10-20 hours to complete the main story because you can change your 
 level and difficulty at any time but you can easily get 50hours + just for fighting. In conclusion 
 this is one of the best ds games ever. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ZakHub
Rating: 9.5
Date: Aug 13, 2008 4:27 pm PT
Review:  I was keeping tabs on this game for a while before and after it came out. Everything I've heard 
 in my checking up on it from time to time indicated that it was a good game with a twist, so I 
 decided to ask for it for my birthday. Got my wish.
  
  And what a ride it was from that day.
  
  The game immediately grabbed my attention with the 
 unique art style and game design in the opening title scene. The introduction of the main character 
 and who he is as a person was good in that I could identify with him from the get-go. The way the 
 game eased me into the mechanics of combat was well done so that I never felt overwhelmed with 
 trying out something new that I was unfamiliar with. After I got the feel for the combat system, 
 about 5 or so hours into the game, which might seem like a long time, but thats when I really started 
 to stop worrying about what I was doing and more on how I can improve my character's abilities 
 and how I can integrate those into the system, the game felt smooth and very well polished. The 
 whole way to improve your characters, from the pins, stickers, and clothes, to the food, brands, 
 and exp multipliers, was seamlessly incorporated into the game that it all felt right. Nothing 
 was ever unused, except for the excess of pins that come at the end of the game from defeating 
 monsters.
  
  The story was also very well told. Even with most of it being text and only a few words spoken 
 by the characters every once in a while, the interactions between characters was very good during 
 the cut scenes. I won't give any spoilers, but the ending was a fitting one to the story. The character 
 arc was very well managed and paced out, and the characters themselves had personalities that came 
 across very easily and I could really feel like I knew these people. The twists were well placed 
 and fitting for the moment in the story.
  
  My only criticisms of the game are very minor. The money pins, which you throw away to get money, 
 could have been automatically sold off instead of you having to do it manually, but its no biggie. 
 Whenever you start running out of funds, just go to the pins and do a massive sell-off to refill 
 the coffers. The other complaint is the cut scenes before certain repeatable battles became monotonous 
 after the 3rd time or so. Again, I just dealt with it by paying attention to something else for 
 the few seconds that the repeated cut scene lasted, then back to the game once the fight started.
 
  
  The difficulty was never too hard or too easy, with the ability to adjust on the fly. The harder 
 the fight, the more loot and exp you get, but you always have the option to balance things out 
 so you get stuff, but can still manage the battles so you don't die within the first five minutes. 
 I found the happy balance that suited me, and the game was much more enjoyable as a result. If 
 the difficulty was fixed, it would've felt too easy for me, but with the ability to change things 
 up a bit, I never had that problem.
  
  All in all, the game was superbly designed, well crafted, fine tuned, and exceptionally executed. 
 Most definitely recommend it for a buy, or at least a long rent. You'll be coming back to this 
 game for a long time to come. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tawagivercetti
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 12, 2008 12:53 am PT
Review:  One of the things that made this one of my favorite games (and by far the best that I own for the 
 DS) is how well the modern styles and themes have been preserved and translated.
  
  I bought this when it came out in Japan (Subarashiki Kono Sekai) and I can tell you that every 
 location and every character name, including the NPCs, have been translated perfectly (even most 
 items and badges/pins have had their named directly translated) .
  
  The dialogue in this game was a very pleasant surprise. Kudos to the writing staff, because more 
 than once have I genuinely burst out laughing while going through the text.
  
  As a fan of the original voices, the English voices are much to be desired (as expected) but they 
 aren't terrible. The music has all been translated into English, and they sound great! Surprisingly, 
 I actually prefer some of the songs this way.
  
  I absolutely love Tetsuya Nomura's art style and it works perfectly with this game. Also, most 
 cutscenes are rendered in 2-D, but the objects are placed so that there's still a sense of depth 
 perception. Additionally, almost all interaction between characters are done with text and speech 
 bubbles (my dad thought that I was reading a graphic novel rather than playing a game) . It's very 
 different but I think it's rather fitting.
  
  As far as gameplay, it is impossible to play this without a stylus. The battle system is ridiculously 
 fun. Also, if you can't control both screens at the same time as fast as you would like to (like 
 me) , the auto mode for the top screen (the bottom screen is completely manual) allows you to input 
 your own controls and have the AI take over after a certain amount of seconds, so you can override 
 the AI when it matters most during battles.
  
  After you finish the game (I did it in 3 days) , there is an alternate storyline that you can play, 
 as well as missions and secret reports to complete during a second play through of the main story 
 (think Kingdom Hearts II) , so this game has a pretty high replay value (besides the fact that it's 
 just fun to play) .
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Tartarus_Reaper
Rating: 10
Date: Aug 11, 2008 5:48 pm PT
Review:  What is it?
  The World Ends With You is the newest RPG released by the Kingdom Hearts Team and Jupiter, a handheld 
 development company that has assisted with the development since the Game Boy days. The game defies 
 all typical RPG staples and opts for a modern setting in the real-life district of Shibuya, Tokyo. 
 The story revolves around a 15 year-old boy, named Neku, as he is plunged into a game of survival 
 with one simple rule. Pass the missions or face erasure.
  
  Gameplay: 10/10
  The game takes all the traditions you'd expect of Japanese RPGs and throws them out the window. 
 Gone is the traditional turn-based system, and even the modern Action systems that have come to 
 be somewhat cliched. You spend the game completing objectives given to you by the Reapers, the 
 strange group that runs the game. Generally speaking, these missions can be as simple as defeating 
 a few enemies, called Noise, or as complicated as getting a particular piece of fashion to be popular 
 in a section of Shibuya. Also added into the mix of these missions is influencing the behavior 
 of many of the NPCs that stroll throughout the streets. These NPCs, not being able to see the protagonists, 
 are susceptible to psychic "memes" that can be imprinted into their minds, which sometimes can 
 lead to humorous outcomes, many involving one poor sap's futile efforts to make a red colored pin 
 popular.
  The main meat of the game, however, is it's battle system, which doesn't disappoint. Baring the 
 true spirit of a DS game, TWEWY has it's own unique battle system that uses both screens to control 
 Neku and his current partner.
  It may seem convoluted at first, with having to keep an eye on both screens as danger comes from 
 all angles, but it works surprisingly well. The game even eases you into the system, rather than 
 throwing you into the thick of battle at a moments notice, but doesn't hold your hand so much that 
 you'd grow tired of tutorials. At the 3rd mission in, you're all by yourself and ready to take 
 on the Noise. Of course, if you're not up to the task, the game is willing to help by taking control 
 of the character on the top screen. Why then, control them yourself? Simply put, you miss out on 
 the powerful Fusion attacks that come with the combo mini-game each partner has, all of which are 
 unique.
  Shiki's consists of a simple game of memory, where you try to match the correct combo to face-down 
 cards on the top of her screen, while Joshua's consists of a game of High and Low, where you attempt 
 to get a number higher, lower, or equal to the one currently highlighted at the top of the screen. 
 Lastly, Beat's game consists of matching card pairs to earn your fusion stars and encourages setting 
 up chain reactions to multiply the number of stars you receive. Once you have at least 4, you can 
 unleash a devastating attack on both screens and replenish a bit of HP. So it doesn't hurt to get 
 good at these systems, as it can spell victory against some of the tougher enemies. As you attack, 
 a green orb called a "light puck" is transferred back in forth between the two characters as well, 
 and serves the purpose of powering up their attack. Successful combos lead to passing it to the 
 other, and keeping the puck going back and forth can multiply the damage you deal up to 4x, so 
 it's beneficial to develop a rhythm for fights. Also included in the gameplay are an extensive 
 fashion system and a food system. Certain fashions are popular in different parts of Shibuya; wear 
 the right ones and you get a nice boost in battle, but wear the wrong ones and your attack is cut. 
 However, you can easily remedy this by fighting a few fights with the gimped equipment; making 
 it possible to turn Shibuya's fashion scene into your very own. Besides wearing clothes to boost 
 your stats, you can also eat food to give yourself a PERMANENT boost. However, it's best to be 
 wise when you pick your food, because if a character dislikes it, they'll take longer to digest 
 it. Wait, digest it? Yes, you have to digest food before you get the effects, and this is done 
 through working it off through battle. To further your obsession, the game also only allows you 
 24 bites in a single day, so you can't just stuff yourself with food. Of course, there's an infinite 
 bite item that you can buy in the post-game, but obtaining that will take quite a bit of work in 
 itself.
  
  Music: 10/10
  The music in the game is made up of the kind you'd actually expect to hear in a setting such as 
 Shibuya. Yes, that means the music isn't the traditional epic fare you hear in a RPG, but rather 
 a mix of Techno, Pop, Hip-hop, Rock, and Trance set up with sometimes odd, but always addicting 
 lyrics. You know you're in for a good soundtrack when the game's opening movie kicks off with Twister, 
 which will continue to rear its head throughout the game with various remixes in both English and 
 Japanese. Each chapter of the game has its own track list that will play during the overworld and 
 battles, which you would think could become repetitive. But for some reason, the music is just 
 too good to get old. Even the various rap songs, which is a genre I'm known to hate, are pleasant 
 to the ears. Just be sure to bring some headphones, because some people might give you some looks 
 when the game busts out Hybrid.
  
  Story:9.5/10
  The story, once again, isn't the traditional RPG fare. This means players are in for something 
 fresh and new, which is certainly welcome in the over-saturated JRPG world. Like was stated before, 
 the story follows Neku as he plays through "The Game", and starts with Neku waking up in the middle 
 of Shibuya's scramble cross, not remembering anything about himself other than his name. He also 
 discovers that he can read the minds of other people around him, with the use of a strange pin 
 he finds upon his awakening. From there, he meets up with a girl named Shiki, who explains that 
 they're both players in a fight to live. The Reapers hold all the cards, and Neku will have to 
 complete their missions if he wants to survive for another day. Neku, sadly, is somewhat of a cliche 
 at the beginning; as he's the traditional apathetic teen that couldn't give a crap about anyone 
 other than himself. However, the story's main focus is on the change of his outlook on life, and 
 he ends up being quite the likable character by chapter 1's end. Other than Shiki, Neku also encounters 
 Joshua, Beat, and Rhyme, 3 other players, and the Reapers themselves. Whether it be the new and 
 rather ditzy Yashiro, or the cold and calculating Konishi, the Reapers play the role of villains 
 well, and it's oh so satisfying when you finally get to lay a beat down on them.
  The game also introduces players to the most amazing math nerd ever, Sho Minamimoto. The guy is 
 grade A nut, and provides for some of the best moments of the story, especially his interactions 
 with Joshua.
  
  Graphics:8/10
  As the screenshots have already told, the game uses sprite work to portray the characters. While 
 not the best we've seen on the DS, the character sprites are still well done and very animated. 
 As it seems to be popular these days as well, the backgrounds are generally 3D and pop-out, adding 
 a dynamic look to Shibuya.
  
  Controls:10/10
  TWEWY is probably one of the only DS games to actually use the system to its fullest potential, 
 without seeming like it was tacked on. The player controls Neku with the touch screen and uses 
 various gestures to activate his "psych" attacks; ranging from an energy slash to shooting a stream 
 of lightning across the screen. These psychs are activated through pins, which you equip to Neku, 
 and all have their own specific touch command, and some even include shouting or blowing into the 
 mic. The d-pad (or ABXY buttons) is regulated to the combo input for Neku's partner up the top screen. 
 The longer the combo, the more damage it deals.
  
  Replayability: 8/10
  For a JRPG, the game has a surprising amount of content to keep you going long after you've erased 
 the last boss. Extras include secret reports that you can find by replaying chapters and fulfilling 
 certain requirements. Also is the Tin Pin Slammer minigame, which has you and other players shooting 
 pins at one another in hopes of knocking them out and gaining points. That's about as much as the 
 multiplayer goes, but it's a fun diversion none the less.
  The game also caters to those who love to max things out, with a total of 304 pins to collect in 
 the game. Some must be obtained through evolving, which requires specific PP (Pin Points) when leveling 
 up. That's right, even your pins level up, and there's 3 different kinds of PP: Battle, Shutdown (PP 
 given for the amount of time you WEREN'T playing the game) , and Mingle PP (obtained through the 
 game's mingle mode, which also opens up new shops that sell the equipment the people you connected 
 with have) . I must admit I was addicted to leveling these pins and evolving them, and it's what 
 kept me from finishing the game sooner. Even now, I still turn on the game to find the secret reports 
 and level up my pins some more. It's that addicting.
  
  Overall: 10/10 (Not an average)
  Some people would disagree with me giving this a 10, or any game for that matter. Well, TOO BAD. 
 It gets 10. TWEWY is one of the best DS games released in years, as well as just one of the best 
 period. Not to mention one of the best RPGs period. Games like this remind people of what true 
 innovation in a genre is, and it'd be a shame if the team doesn't gain recognition for it. Here's 
 hoping S-E keeps up with games like this, and here's hoping you give it a try. See you in Shibuya! 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mangaminx
Rating: 7.5
Date: Aug 10, 2008 1:43 am PT
Review:  Now I'm really not a fan of handheld games, when I play them they seem watered down, fiddly and 
 generally lacking in quality. Whether its in my palm or on my TV I want a game to have depth and 
 seeing as I only play games at home, not on the bus, in the car on the way to work handheld games 
 need to hold my attention over a console when I play them. Which is perhaps why I find them lacking.
 
  
  That said after the unmitigated crap that was Final Fantasy III on the DS, The World Ends With 
 You is a refreshing change. Its a new franchise from Square Enix, its slick, well presented has 
 a interesting combat system and I should love it. Unfortunately the urge to strangle hip-hop kids 
 with their own beanies grows to such high levels for me when playing that the overall experience 
 was somewhat spoiled.
  
  Story & Characters
  For a super secret plot spoilering reason, a bunch of kids have been forced to take part in a Battle 
 Royale style compotetion where they compete against beings called the Reapers in a present day 
 Shibuya. The cast headed up by our lead protaganist Neku (or possibly the worst lead character 
 EVER in a RPG, as I like to call him) , are flung from day to day over the course of a week completing 
 tasks in Shibuya with their team-mate. Fail the task? Your erased by the Reapers and your dead. 
 Hooray. Now this may sound all very simple but there is a lot of depth to it, theres a lot of "Whys?" 
 and "Hows?" and "WTF is going on's?" answered throughout and I can't cover the details as they 
 are genuinally genius story aspects and contain massive spoilers. Let's just say the game has a 
 lot of plot twists and interesting ideas.
  
  Unfortunately if only the game had been set in another setting and different cast I'd be giving 
 this aspect of it 10/10. Unfortunately being set in present day Shibuya and translating being what 
 it is, all the kids speak and act like their IQ is less than 4 and it would be a great service 
 to the community if their mouths were stapled shut. With the exception of Joshua every cast member 
 grated on me to some degree, whether it's Neku moaning and being a typical emo kid, or Shiki lost 
 in raging teenage PMT or Beat simply going "Yo Waddup" or something equally irritating the cast 
 and setting REALLY grated on me after about 30mins play. Oh and most of the cast have a fixation 
 on clothes and brands and the usual shallow claptrap the media is intent on getting children into 
 from an increasingly early age. That annoyed me.
  
  Gameplay
  That said, to slate the game based souley on the setting and cast being unrelatable to me from 
 a personal standpoint would be unfair as TWEWY has some great aspects, like the combat.
  
  The combat involves you as Neku and one other character using special abilities to fight enemies 
 known as "noise" and some Reaper bosses too. On the bottom screen you control Neku, running around 
 with the stylus and using your skills held within "pins" to perform different attacks using different 
 stylus movements. Each ability you collect uses different movements and all can be employed tactically 
 in different situations against different kinds of noise. You get to send flame burning along the 
 floor, shoot icicles out the ground and many other abilities. Meanwhile if you happen to be in 
 possesion of nine thumbs you can also use the D-pad to attack on the top screen at the same time, 
 or switch between screens as the flow of battle changes, whatever you prefer. It can seem overwhelming 
 at times but its new, refreshing and different and yes.. it is a Square Enix game and I just used 
 all those words in the same sentance as "Square Enix."
  
  The non combat aspects of the game have you running around Shibuya solving adventure game puzzles. 
 You know the ones I mean, "find conversation part X" then "put conversation part X into somebody 
 elses body so they sya something triggeting an event" although usually a bit more complex than 
 that. It may be slightly different from the usual "pick up stick, shove stick in beavers bum to 
 make it gnaw down a tree which falls and creates a bridge for you to walk across" but the concept 
 is the same. This is a double edged sword for me as I suck at puzzles in games, I really do. The 
 puzzles for me gain marks for again doing something different but lose marks slightly for all the 
 times I had to consult a guide in frustration. Still overall though I guess adventure game style 
 puzzles in a RPG make a nice change.
  
  Graphics & Sound
  Wonderful, a triumph on the DS theres even a bit of voice acting for the leads here and there, 
 technically TWEWY cannot be faulted in it's excellence. Oh and the cutscenes work well too.
  
  Lastability
  A lot to do if you can be bothered, personally I couldn't be, but again I'm 
 sure theres plenty of you out there who will be. Length? Probably 20 hour mark for most people 
 I suppose.
  
  Overall TWEWY does a lot right, but unfortunately for me at least it fails on one of the most important 
 RPG aspects.. the cast. A game can have the best story and gameplay ever but if the characters 
 are the equivalent of watching blobs of diarrohea leap around the screen then the enjoyment factor 
 is lost. I wonder when more RPG creators will realize the entire gaming market is no longer under 
 18. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: monkeybananayum
Rating: 9.5
Date: Aug 21, 2008 5:11 pm PT
Review:  I've been kinda disppointed with Square's handheld games lately. It seems like they've all been 
 just spinoffs or remakes. Luckily, I played this game and remembered why I liked Square's RPG's 
 to begin with.
  
  The gameplay may seem kinda daunting judging by the screenshots, but the game eases you into it. 
 It's not as overwhelming as it might seem, but it is kinda complex. More importantly, it is one 
 of the most fun and exciting RPG battle systems I've encountered. You can set your own difficulty, 
 so the game can be as challenging as you want it, but those opting for greater difficulty will 
 like that each battle is fast paced and requires your full attention. When you beat a boss, it 
 is rewarding. The game definitely utilizes the touchscreen well -- more than any DS RPG I've played 
 and using two screen simultaneously is great in a hectic crazy way. It's different from the usual 
 turn based menu driven combat but I think it is less tedious, especially without random battles. 
 Good stuff.
  
  The game looks great too. It looks just like a 2D game should. Nice detailed sprites and animation, 
 very colorful, and the backgrounds are cool. Most of the story is told through text bubbles and 
 portraits reminiscent of a manga, and while there was the occasional anime-like cutscene (which 
 look great and really fit the style) , I couldn't help but want more of them. It would have even 
 further enhanced the great story.
  
  The music is also another positive. If you hate Japanese pop, and even a little rap, you may not 
 like it, but it is good quality and fits the mood of the game. It all depends on your taste, just 
 like much of the game. After a while, some songs can get repetitive, but they're catchy and it 
 takes a long time before they do. The voice acting is also well-done and the voices fit the characters. 
 I also would have liked a bit more voice acting. But what was there was welcome.
  
  You could breeze through the main story making the game rather short, but there is a ton to do 
 in the game. Tons of items to collect and pins to evolve. Has the addictive factor of Pokemon. 
 Extra content and wireless capabilities also extend the lifetime. There is a lot to do. The main 
 world of the game is small compared to most RPG's, but it doesn't matter and it fits the story 
 and the theme of the game.
  
  Last but not least, the story, the backbone of any half-way decent RPG. Its quirky hip style may 
 turn some people off, but if you like that stuff, this game will not fail to please. The game surprised 
 me with its ability to thwart its cliches and make them unique. Spiky hair, teen angst. All that 
 stuff is here, but the game is full of genuine heartfelt moments and a surprisingly likable cast 
 of characters, that it doesn't feel trite. This may be one of Square's first attempts at making 
 a modern-day RPG, but it manages quite well to be relatable and engaging. The story is made better 
 by sharp, witty and humorous dialogue and a lot of slang. I have nothing but good things to say 
 about the story. 
  
  This is my favorite DS game, and I think it's the best game on the system. Only a few minor gripes, 
 that don't really hinder the experience. Like you need to use wireless mode to get 100% pin collection 
 and I would've liked a wee bit more anime cutscenes and voice over instead of just text. But this 
 game rules, don't pass it up just cause it's not a FInal Fantasy or some other big name franchise. 
 The quality is there. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: CoRiNi
Rating: 9.5
Date: Aug 6, 2008 7:39 pm PT
Review:  slash, touch, drag, circle and even shout .. this game has used everything that's usable on DS .. 
 action RPG ?? .. Adventure ?? .. hell guys .. this is a new genre .. if the red light on my DS never 
 appeared .. I would be playing this game forever .. Square and Kingdom Hearts Staff have really 
 made a game that comes once in a lifetime .. This game will be remembered by generations to come 
 .. no .. this game's name is written in history .. I'm glad I took a flight out of the country 
 on vacation because I usually don't play handheld platforms since I have X360, PS3 and Wii .. but 
 because of this game .. I think this summer vacation is the best I've ever had in my life .
  Great Gameplay , Flawless Presentation and a most impressive hell of a soundtrack .. Every DS owner 
 -MUST- play this game .. I beg you .. play it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Pierst179
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 6, 2008 1:50 pm PT
Review:  For companies like Square-Enix that have a huge group of gaming series that are known worldwide 
 and generate incredible hype among fans whenever a new installment is coming, it is fairly easy 
 to create a new game. All the developing team needs to do is to use most features and characteristics 
 that make those critically acclaimed series so amazing and bring them to a "new" game that will 
 present a new world, a different group of enemies and a nice storyline. The result will obviously 
 be a great package that unfortunately won't contribute neither to the growth of the industry nor 
 to the genre itself. 
  
  The true challenge behind the developing process is taking the risk to create something so fresh 
 and authentic that even people who are supporting the project will doubt its success. And when 
 Square-Enix is willing to take such a leap chances are fans all over the world will be pleasantly 
 surprised with the outcome of the experience. The World Ends With You is exactly that, a game overflowing 
 with a unique vibe that appears on a moment where titles that are way too similar dominate the 
 market. 
  
  The game takes place in Shibuya, one of Tokyo's wards, a place filled with many young people where 
 big brands are fashion centers are the most popular subject among the local dwellers. It is in 
 this vivid and vibrating place where we first encounter the main character of the story. Neku Sakuraba 
 is a teenager with the "I don`t care attitude" that has many doubts about the world and people 
 who live around him. 
  
  He wakes up in the main area of the district unable to remember anything about his life besides 
 his own name and a couple of minor details. He has no idea how he got there but a few minutes later 
 his whole world will change dramatically once he discovers that he is part of a game controlled 
 by The Reapers  a mysterious organization  where in order to survive the players have to accomplish 
 each one of the missions that are received via a cell phone on a daily basis during an entire week. 
 Failing on a mission will lead to erasure. 
  
  In order to survive on this game players need to team up in duos. Neku quickly meets a young girl 
 named Shiki and both of them form a partnership despite the fact that Neku somehow refuses to befriend 
 with anyone. Basically that is all the information you will get in the beginning of the adventure, 
 so questions like: Who are the Reapers? What is this game all about? Who Neku truly is? And what 
 is the backstory of some of the characters? will be constantly hovering over your head as you progress 
 through the game. The storyline therefore is extremely compelling because of the mysteries the 
 game presents to the player as soon as the game kicks off and will be one of the main reasons you 
 won't be able to put the game down. 
  
  In order to get through the game Neku and his partner will have to advance through Shibuya to solve 
 the missions. Most of them are pretty straightforward as you will be battling your way to certain 
 locations until you reach a big bad boss but some others require some more investigation and exploration. 
 In certain occasions  those are rare though  you will feel like you are simply moving from one 
 place to another while fighting enemies because the game can get very linear sometimes. 
  
  The battle system is one of the highlights of the game. Players who dislike random battles will 
 be glad to know that you will only face enemies in Shibuya when you want to. This is accomplished 
 by using the "player pin" which is displayed on the screen as an icon. By touching it with the 
 stylus Neku will use his senses to scan the area where you are located. When you do so you will 
 be able to read the minds of people who are nearby  except for other players  and also locate 
 the "noise", which are the enemies of the game. Touch the noise icon and battle will ensue. 
  
  In batlle Neku will take the botton screen while his partner will fight on the top one, to 
 suceed you will have to control both of the characters. In the beginning you will be fumbling with 
 the controls a little bit since fighting on two screens at the same time can be confusing but after 
 a few missions you will naturally perform movements with both characters. For those who are not 
 able to master the dual battles there is an option that permits the CPU to take control of your 
 partner automatically. 
  
  Both of the characters have different battle controls. Neku uses different pins for attacks, each 
 one of them has a different function such as sending bullets towards the noise, generating an earthquake 
 or dragging objects on the screen to attack the enemies. There is an endless variety of moves all 
 of them being activated by different actions with the stylus like tapping the enemies, slashing 
 neku or scrathing the ground. Sometimes the system will not identify those actions properly causing 
 the character to perform the move incorrectly which can become frustrating sometimes. 
  
  Another minor flaw is that when you equip two pins that are activated by the same move the game 
 will randomly choose one of them to use first, and you will only be able to use the other attack 
 once the other pin has alread been used to its limit and is recharging its power for another usage. 
 
  
  Meanwhile, the partner faces the same enemies on the top screen by atacking them with moves made 
 by pressing one of the directions of the D-pad. Once you press one of the directions a combinations 
 of arrows will appear on the screen and by following them correctly you will land a combo. By succesfully 
 performing many combos you will activate the fusion move which is a powerful attack performed by 
 the duo that will heavily harm the enemies and recover a little bit of your HP. 
  
  Another noteworthy detail during battles is a green light puck that is passed from one character 
 to the other. Whenever you land a combo one character will hand the puck to the other one this 
 will temporally increase the attack of the one that received it, kepp the combo going and the puck 
 will keep being passed and its attack boost will subsequently increase. 
  
  The battle system is very solid and it creates some truly memorable battles. It has some minor 
 setbacks that could have been fixed but overall it is very original and most importantly a lot 
 of fun. During the battle your character will receive some EXP points and his level will raise, 
 improving a few stats automatically. 
  
  As on most RPGs out there, on The World Ends With You your characters should be well equiped to 
 conquer the challenges but in the modern Shibuya there are not swords or iron ammo. All you are 
 going to find are many stores that sell clothes from certain brands, buying them may make your 
 character stronger. 
  
  One of the most interesting aspects of the game is the fact that brand charts rule this place. 
 Most of the pins and all clothes acquired during your adventure belong to a certain brand and if 
 this brand is on the top-3 of the brand chart your stats will gain a very good boost  especially 
 if the brand is on the top of the chart  however, if the brand is the least popular of the area 
 your stats will be halved. So taking a look at the chart is always a good idea if you intend to 
 enter a battle. 
  
  The presentation of the game is absolutely astonishing. Everything here transpires originality 
 from the graphics to the stylish menus. The different locations of Shibuya are close to perfect 
 reproductions of the actual place and when playing the game youi can actually feel how alive that 
 corner of Japan is. The character models are very nice and the storyline is shown via text boxes 
 and steady characters with a few impressive cutscenes appearing on some dramatic moments of the 
 plot. You can easily see the producers were very careful when polishing this product to this level. 
 
  
  The only thing I think is missing is a map of the Shibuya. On most missions you have to visit some 
 certain locations but since the world is pretty big sometimes is easy to get lost while looking 
 for your destination, still a map is nowhere to be found and if you don not have a good memory 
 chances are you will eventually go through the wrong path at least once. 
  
  The soundtrack is one of the things that makes this game so thrilling, you may not like some of 
 the music genres that the game uses but truth be told you will probably end up enjoying them when 
 you are caught up in a battle or simply because the songs perfectly capture the young and brand-new 
 feel that the game has. 
  
  The World Ends With You also has an incredible replay value because during your first playthrough 
  which must take around ten to fifteen hours - you will find out the solution to all questions 
 I listed in the beginning of this review but your curiosity about some details of the plot and 
 some rather obscure characters will make you replay the game since some pieces of information can 
 only be acquired by playing the game once again. Do not worry though, the first ending explain 
 enough to satisfy all players who do not feel like going through an extra adventure. 
  
  In the end, The World Ends With you is as original as an RPG created by Square Enix can be. The 
 game may have its share of problems but none of those will make you forget about how big of an 
 accomplishment this game is truly is, because adventures with such a perfect storytelling and refreshing 
 gameplay do not appear as often as we would all like nowadays. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SaxxyGamer18
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 4, 2008 11:01 pm PT
Review:  Just when everyone keeps complaining that all Square-Enix does is reiterate on its Final Fantasy 
 franchise, along comes an absolute gem called The World Ends With You. Though it is oddly titled, 
 it is very fitting for an offbeat game like this. With strong production values, great presentation, 
 and the kind of great warped storytelling Square is known for, TWEWY delivers.
  
  The game is set in Shibuya, the trendy nightlife district of Tokyo. This is the popular hangout 
 spot for Tokyo's teenage crowd, and it is always buzzing with business. However, the real part 
 of the game takes place in an alternate universe where everyone is part of the Reaper's Game. This 
 game, run by a mysterious person called the Composer, allows Players to fight for a second chance 
 at life by completing set missions. All of the Players involved died prematurely, and are offered 
 a chance to live again. However, each Player must sacrifice an entry fee and must keep from erasure 
 by the end of the seventh day. The Reapers try to erase all of the Players by following their own 
 rules and utilizing Noise, the monsters in the game.
  
  The protagonist of the story is Neku, a totally self-centered emo kid with an attitude problem. 
 He has no memory of who he was before he died or even how he died, and so he must glean information 
 from those who know. Throughout the game, he must learn to rely on others and put his trust in 
 them, causing his world to expand and his heart to soften. The characters, such as Shiki, Joshua, 
 Beat, Rhyme, and the Reapers, are all fleshed out very well and become extremely likable throughout 
 the game. This has always been a strong point in Square's RPGs, and it is readily apparent here.
 
  
  The gameplay consists of non-random battles with the Noise that take place on both screens of the 
 DS. This is very confusing at first, but the game softens the learning curve by offering difficulty 
 tweaking options and autopilot for the top screen. The bottom screen controls Neku and uses a system 
 with equipped pins to dish out various attacks. Some of these stylus controls do not work well, 
 unfortunately, and you will find yourself relying on the more slash-related pins a lot. The top 
 screen is Neku's partner, fighting the same battle in a slightly different realm. This is controlled 
 with the D-pad and is pretty easy to get used to. Again, it takes over automatically when you stop 
 giving commands, so it is pretty forgiving.
  
  The game never seems to be too difficult, in fact. Even the more menacing bosses aren't that imposing 
 once their pattern is understood. The opportunity to retry battles in Easy Mode also tempers things 
 quite a bit. This can be a brutally challenging game to those who wish it upon themselves, but 
 on default settings, or even a little below, the game is never that hard.
  
  Problems with the game mostly lie with the crazy amount of seemingly important things to do. Following 
 trends with armor, picking the right foods to tweak attributes, competing in minigames, and gathering 
 all kinds of rare pins seem to be necessary, but end up being distractions for the most part. The 
 game makes itself seem more complex than it really is, and tends to drag itself down by being a 
 bit convoluted. If it were more streamlined and understandable, it would be more appealing to entry-level 
 RPG players.
  
  The game is beautiful, though. This is easily the best-looking 2D game on the DS. The mix of 16-bit 
 sprites and hand-drawn backgrounds, along with great character and enemy designs, leads to a great 
 overall look. The soundtrack also blends very well with the game, featuring more classic styles 
 and contemporary J-pop.
  
  The greatest aspect of the game, though, is its uncanny ability to come off as such a cool experience. 
 It really has the ability to suck you in, and it is really great when that happens. What may appear 
 trite at first glance starts coming off as really creative and thoughtful. The game is full of 
 moments like that, and it sets it apart.
  
  TWEWY is destined to be a revered cult classic among Square fans. It deserves to be played by anyone 
 who would be interested in the concept, as it is just filled with quality, creativity, and unique 
 moments. It is a memorable experience that transcends its flaws and really makes a place for itself. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Darkrush000
Rating: 9.5
Date: Aug 2, 2008 6:10 pm PT
Review:  What does it take to be a good Square Enix game? Plenty of magic attacks? Weapons and Armors? Throw 
 away everything you know about RPGs, 'cause TWEWY brings out a whole new concept.
  
  First of all, this game's scenario isn't a castle or a forest. Everything here happens in Shibuya, 
 a huge center of modern people, shops and Noise (monsters) . That's what it makes this game so damn 
 good: this delicious mixture of cultures.
  
  TWEWY doesn't have any 3D elements. However, it's one of the most beautiful games for the DS. Why? 
 There are vibrant, stunning colors, combined with a charismatic and wonderfully-drawn cast of characters.
 
  
  If the graphics impressed you, the soundtrack will make your head blow up with a techno, ultra-addicting 
 music. I can't list A SINGLE BAD MUSIC IN THE GAME. This game has one of the most epic soundtrack 
 in history. Totally.
  
  The story is another strong aspect of the game. Neku Sakuraba entered in a kind of game, where 
 he has to complete various missions to win the game and *SPOILERS* (kinda) return back to life.
 
  A player alone can't win the game, he has to find a partner. Shiki Misaki was Neku's first partner. 
 I won't reveal much about the characters, 'cause it will ruin all of the surprise.
  
  Now, for the gameplay. Neku uses powers, called "psychs". To activate a psych, you need to have 
 the corresponding pin. There are a total of nearly 300 pins, each one with its own psych. They 
 are activated by doing something on the Touch Screen. Example: "Touch an empty space to fire a 
 bullet in that direction" and "Drag across an empty space to create a path of flame". 
  At the Top Screen, you control your partner. All you have to do is keep pressing the D-Pad to the 
 right or to the left, it depends of the enemy's position. The gameplay may sound complex at first, 
 but as level up and gain access to more pins and clothes, it becomes a very enjoyable kind of combat
 
  
  Think it's easy to get all the pins and clothes? Secret reports? Types of Noise? TWEWY is a game 
 with a lot of depth that you won't remove from your DS after a long, long time...
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Naruto768454766
Rating: 10
Date: Jul 29, 2008 8:27 am PT
Review:  This is the game that has a mix between collecting different skills, button mashing stylus work, 
 and everything a Nintendo DS was made to do. Every system has at least one game that is really 
 revolutionary to that system which can take everything that the system can handle and this is that 
 game. 1. it gives you a great soundtrack. 2. it is a good game for a good challenge but not impossible 
 to beat. 3. it does everything people says it does.
  
  I would recommend this game to anyone who enjoys action, fighting, japan, anime, killing before 
 you get killed, and a nice little bit of strategy on top of it. it does have a prety big tag but 
 it gives you all the buck in one big bang plainly put this game is worth getting up grabbing your 
 wallet going to the store getting the game and locking yourself in your house with a days worth 
 of junk food and playing this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: KH2Freak2014
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jul 28, 2008 10:47 pm PT
Review:  This game is worth buying. It is the best game in my DS collection. Anyways, lemme start off with 
 fighting. The fighting system puts your DS handling ability to the max by using the touch screen 
 and watching and controlling the top screen with the D-pad (or letter buttons for the leftys) . 
 You can equip different pins for Neku (bottom screen) to use. Each pin has it's own ability. The 
 only thing I didn't like about the pin system is that there are 200 in all and that is a lot to 
 master. It is a lot to master because you can only take 4-6 pins with you into battle. For your 
 partner, the only way to increase their abilitys is through clothes (same goes for Neku) . So you 
 don't have to worry about using different weapons for your partner. You can also feed yourselves 
 food to increase stats of your characters. You can go shopping for new threads, pins, food etc. 
 Make friends with shopkeepers to unlock secret items you can buy from them The story should last 
 you for 3 days to 4 days if you take breaks like I do but there is still more things to do once 
 you beat the game. I will not tell you what in the review. This game was challenging yet still 
 fun. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Solar-Nix
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jul 28, 2008 7:31 pm PT
Review:  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
  The World Ends With You
  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
  
  The World Ends With You. One of the most original, ambitious, story driven masterpiecies I've ever 
 played. Story, Music/Sound, Game play, Misc.: remember that.
  
  Lets start with the story. It's easily the best handheld story, and a prime candidate for best 
 story, that I've ever experienced. Neku, the main character, is thrown into the middle of a ShIbuya 
 intersection, dazed and confusion, without any memory. He meets Shiki, who becomes his partner 
 in the 'Game'. Then, over the course of two more weeks, he partners up with more strangers to defeat 
 'the Composer", The story is extremely fleshed out, and never seems to disappoint. I don't want 
 to spoil anything for you, but a little advice: don't read the instruction booklet. It spoils a 
 few fine points of the story and everything is explained in-game anyway.
  *10/10
  
  Next, Music/Sound. The music is the best of any recent game I've had the chance listen to. It's 
 kind of a Japanese pop/alternative/rock soundtrack. At first, is dosen't make much sense. But, 
 it quickly grows on you. Also, you can buy all the 'CDs' in-game and listen to them at will. The 
 sound effects are up to par, but nothing spectacular. Grunts and short shouts accompany attacks 
 on the battlefield while numorous others are syncronized with the menu/in-game activities. Overall, 
 a spectaculer job.
  *10/10
  
  Game play. Ah, the game play. Probably the most original part of the game. Essencially, you push 
 combonations of arrows (mostly, 
::::::

::::::
UserName: shadzeo
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jul 28, 2008 12:33 pm PT
Review:  the game is great dont get me wrong but it had its flaws. i played it untill the end and it had 
 a great storyline but the battle system is what you call i love or i hate type. it is an ok battle 
 system but the developers could have spent more time on it ive seen alot of people saying they 
 liked and didnt liked but what the battle system lacks i would say the storyline makes up up. this 
 game shows off clothing as a big part of what helps you out that is what makes this game unique 
 i think they had some pretty funky ideas but but whatever they did it was good. you dont see many 
 games using clothing as a big part in battle. at first looks you think the game ends very fast 
 but the longer you play the deeper it gets. i would say that the world ends with you is a overall 
 great game that i enjoyed and would say many others would enjoy also even to the new comers of 
 RPG world. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Striker2117
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jul 28, 2008 8:43 am PT
Review:  I have just torn myself away from this amazing game to write a quick review for it. First of all, 
 it has an amazing story-line that is revealed slowly throughout the first play of the game and 
 then explained a bit more after completing it and collecting secrets in each level. A list of 96 
 monsters, called Noise, will keep you busy trying to find them all, and then trying to collect 
 the items they drop at each level of difficulty. There are 19 separate "animal" Noise types, each 
 with several different forms. Such as there are 3 sharks, one looks regular, and the other two 
 have added appendages. They also all have different stats. The gameplay offers 3 difficulty modes 
 during the first play with the option to unlock a 4th. These can be switched in game, so if you're 
 having trouble with a boss on normal, you can lower the difficulty to easy. It seems that this 
 either halves the opponents defense and attack, or doubles your attack and defense. The game also 
 gives a great reason for switching between modes, different pins are dropped by the noise on different 
 levels. The game also allows you to voluntarily drop your level, or "chain" battles (fighting multiple 
 rounds, with no chance to heal in between) , which both give a higher %tage for pin drops by the 
 opponent. Pins are your main form of attack, which at first, while I was reading reviews, struck 
 me as stupid. Then I realized that you don't actually attack with the pins (like throwing them 
 at your enemies) , but rather through powers gained by using them. These vary from stretching a 
 chain of barbed wire across the screen to damage enemies, to having 4 pins bounce around your screen 
 and shooting a projectile between them. The pins are just for the touch screen though, the top 
 screen has you partner. You can either control your partner through the D-pad, or the A, B, Y, X buttons; 
 or you can just let them fight automatically (in which they do a rather good job) . As you move 
 through the game different abilities are unlocked for them including the ability to nullify damage 
 and fusions. Fusions are acquired through a sort of mini-game during battle, which changes depending 
 on your partner, and is then activated by you to do massive damage. This game is awesome, and is 
 highly recommended to anyone who needs something new to do. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bluej33
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jul 27, 2008 2:56 pm PT
Review:  Forget everything you know about role-playing games. You won't need it any more. 
  
  The World Ends with You is an incredible game. It's made all the more fantastic by the fact that 
 it's created by Square Enix, a developer that's known for remakes and rehashes on the DS. But with 
 The World Ends with You, Square has given us something original, something beautiful, and something 
 absolutely unforgettable. The World Ends with You is a game that you must buy, play, and love. 
 It deserves nothing less. 
  
  The World Ends with You takes your traditional RPG and completely turns it on its head. That's 
 not to say it does away with such aspects as story, item-collecting, enemy-battling, and experiencing-gaining. 
 Rather, they're handled in such a way that you'll wonder how you ever had fun with simple turn-based 
 battles, uninspired "save the world" stories, or monotonous level-grinding. The World Ends with 
 You has revolutionized one of the most time-honored genres of gaming, and the end result is something 
 wonderful. 
  
  From the second you power on this game, it's going to impress you. The story starts out simply 
 enough, but soon elevates into an epic fight for the main character Neku's life, friends, and home. 
 The game is full of loveable characters, but what stays with you is the incredible depth that this 
 story about moody adolescents manages to pull off. As Neku evolves from an introverted jerk to 
 a kind, caring and passionate human being, he and his companions will undergo dramatic changes. 
 They're thrust into a microcosm of chaos and fear, and the implications regarding those who make 
 it through are profound. 
  
  Beyond the game's characters, the themes that are dealt with by The World Ends with You are incredible. 
 Death is the title's most prominent, but along the way to the game's explosive finale, Neku undergoes 
 an existential catharsis of emotion and the player realizes just how representative Neku is of 
 all of us. And his final self-realization is one of the most emotional moments I've ever experienced 
 in a video game. Play the game for it's unique role-playing mechanics. But remember it for its 
 unique, profound message. 
  
  As a hardcore gamer this is a bit embarrassing, but to be honest there are a lot of RPGs that I 
 just don't like. There are plenty of games out there that offer a fun, solid role-playing romp, 
 but at the same time there are too many games out there that can't get out of the antiquated turn-based 
 battle system. The former are to be commended; the latter condemned. Innovation and progression 
 are what the genre needs, and it's exactly what The World Ends with You injects into a sometimes-floundering 
 niche of games.
  
  To begin with, The World Ends with You is just fun. It takes everything that you might love from 
 RPGs and strips away all the stuff that gets in the way of that fun. You're given complete freedom 
 over your battle strategy, thanks to the various pins in your game. These pins are what give you 
 your different attacks, and there are hundreds of them scattered throughout the game (although 
 admittedly, many of them are duplicates of each other) . You can create a "deck" of up to 6 pins 
 and creating the perfect combination of attack and defense in your deck is an addictive and satisfying 
 experience. 
  
  Square didn't stop there with the battle mechanic: it takes things a step further and adds an independently-attacking 
 character to the top screen. It's at this point that things begin to get hectic and undeniably 
 overwhelming for beginning players. You use the touch screen to control Neku's many attacks, while 
 the d-pad or face buttons are used to control his partner on the top screen. As you attack you're 
 given branching options of which attack to use, and by building up combos on the top screen you 
 can unleash a devastating dual attack. 
  
  What's really impressive is that even with all complexity in the battle system, The World Ends 
 with You still lets you play the game as you want. If you want to just focus on controlling Neku, 
 that's cool -- set the computer to control your partner up top automatically. Or feel free to focus 
 more on racking up combos up top to allow for more dual-attacks; just make sure your dodging enemy 
 attacks with Neku. These strategies work, but by far the most satisfying is attempting to master 
 working both screens at once. It takes a while to get the hang of, but once you do it's a really 
 thrilling experience. 
  
  The World Ends with You includes many traditional role-playing elements, but they're all present 
 with significant changes. Experience points and leveling-up are par for the course that is RPGs. 
 But The World Ends with You lets you set your level (as well as difficulty) to whatever you want. 
 If you're level 50, you can set your characters anywhere from level 1 to 50. What's the point of 
 setting it lower? Defeating enemies at a low-level nets you more dropped items at the end of the 
 battle. Most items and pins also have a specific brand -- each area of Shibuya has its brand preferences 
 and wearing a popular brand gives your stats a big boost. But this system seems a bit moot since 
 you can manipulate the popularity charts and place your favorite brands at the top of the list. 
 
  
  Even now, only the surface of this game has been scratched. The beauty of this game is that it's 
 so incredibly complex and the game mechanic itself is so very deep. Every time you think you've 
 got it all figured out, the game will throw you something new. Admittedly, some of these concepts 
 are handled better than others. For example, eating food and then digesting it by fighting battles 
 to gain stat bonuses is pretty freaking awesome. But a concept called memes, which allows you to 
 imprint certain thoughts into peoples' heads thereby get them to do what you want them to do feels 
 a bit half-baked. This is about as close as the game gets to puzzle-solving and it's only used 
 a few times throughout the game. That said, there are so many gameplay facets of The World Ends 
 with You that even with a minor problem in one, you can be sure that another will pick up the slack. 
 
  
  And despite its complexity, The World Ends with You is surprisingly easy to pick up. If you wanted 
 to play Final Fantasy III and couldn't get around the shameless level-grinding requirement or overpowered, 
 frequently-encountered enemies, The World Ends with You is a game for you. It's for everybody who 
 wanted to enjoy an RPG but hated the obscure puzzle solving or classic "where to go next" conundrum. 
 The ability to set the game's difficulty setting is fantastic; make the title as easy or difficult 
 as you want. Fighting enemies is such a fun and unique experience that you'll gain levels without 
 even realizing it. Square allows you to custom fit this game to your playing preferences, and by 
 doing so makes The World Ends with You one of the most accessible titles on the DS. Especially 
 considering it's an RPG, that's pretty impressive. 
  
  The World Ends with You is a paradox; how does it manage to be so intricate and yet so accessible? 
 Star such a seemingly-shallow character and yet spin such an unforgettable storyline? It's by far 
 Square's most successful and memorable outing on the DS, and is a perfect game for both enthusiasts 
 of and newcomers to the role-playing genre. It is a beautiful, memorable, emotional adventure that 
 everyone needs to experience. 
  
  Buy The World Ends with You. You Have Seven Days. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: somadude
Rating: 9
Date: Jul 26, 2008 8:24 pm PT
Review:  Gameplay 9/10
  First and foremost the gameplay in TWEWY is some of the most unique gameplay to ever be in an rpg. 
 Yoy play on both screens with the character on the bottom you use the stylus to tap. scribble, and 
 draw, but why? well because in TWEWY you don't use swords or guns instead you use "pins" and each 
 pin has its own way of activating it in battle. On the top screen a second character is there but 
 unlike the top screen all you do on top is press a certain pattern using the d-pad or a. b. x. y. 
 The gameplay is both challengeing and smooth and its so unique you can't help but love it.
  
  Graphics 10/10
  The graphics feature a anime style and it's awesome. The hand written character 
 are beutiful and the colors are perfect. It also has a superb technical design with a lot of detail 
 and tons of stuff going on.
  
  Sound 9/10
  The sound track consist of pop, rap and techno and for the most part its nice and upbeat but it 
 can get annoying since later on in the game there are puzzles and challenges that require a lot 
 of atime and with it a lot of the same track over and over but all in all the tracks are nice.
 
  
  Value 9/10
  The story mode will take around 20 hours to complete that is if you manage to do some side quests 
 along the way. Sadly there is little reason to go back a second time. But the length is great and 
 memerable.
  
  The Good
  amazing graphics, unique combat, gripping and emotional story, the campaign is long for a DS game.
 
  
  The Bad
  The track list is hot or miss, gameplay can get a little repetitive. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: eXecutor195
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jul 25, 2008 6:31 am PT
Review:  Story: The World Ends With You centres on Neku, who wakes up dazed and confused in the middle of 
 Tokyo. On coming to, he receives a message on his mobile phone that delivers the terrible news 
 that he will cease to exist unless he completes a series of challenges. With death staring him 
 in the face, Neku wastes no time in saving trying to save his own skin.
  
  Key Features
  
  * Experience the urban grit and neon of the coolest district in Tokyo with a distinctive, high 
 quality style of in-game artwork
  * Meet an achingly hip cast of characters each with an interesting personality and stylish sense 
 in fashion, music and culture
  * Highly innovative and intuitive combat system that makes full use of the Nintendo DS Touch Screen, 
 Dual Screens and Microphone like no other game before it!
  * Use fantastic psychic powers to read the thoughts of the population, put words into people's 
 minds, and move objects to help you progress in your adventure!
  * Immerse yourself in an amazing audio soundtrack featuring a diverse fusion of bleeding-edge hip-hop, 
 rock, and techno
  * A tale of friendship, hope and overcoming your challenges, creatively told with a modern edge
 
  * Shop till you drop! Keep abreast of the latest Trends to stay one step ahead of the fashion 
 scene and your enemies. Trade items with friends using Nintendo Wi-Fi Connection too
  * Action-packed minigame fun that can be enjoyed by up to four players via DS Wireless Play!
 
  * Engage the Chance Encounter mode via DS Wireless Play to share data with fellow game users you 
 bump into in the real world 
  
  Most of the gameplay focuses on finding clues and battling Noise. Players can use Neku's mindreading 
 abilities to hear people's thoughts by using the touch screen of the Nintendo DS. The game's combat 
 system, called the "Stride Cross Battle System", uses both screens of the Nintendo DS. Neku has 
 three partners, one in each and specific chapter of the game. The touch screen is used to move 
 and attack with Neku, whose abilities depend on the badges equipped. On the top screen, movement 
 can be controlled with the D-Pad, which is tapped for specific techniques.
  
  This title is not a suggestion. It is not a polite request. It is a freaking mandate. If you own 
 a DS, you owe it to yourself to have this game in your library. It's that simple. Now why am I 
 laying such heavy praise on a game that I haven't played to the end and therefore can't properly 
 review it? Answer: Because it is one of the single best Action RPGs I have ever played. 
  
  The graphics are some of the best on the system. 2D sprites are vibrant and stand out. The streets 
 are packed with pedestrians at all times. And the backgrounds give the sense that Shibuya is its 
 own world. Cutscenes take the form of character art talking to each other through text bubbles, 
 giving the game a distinctive manga feel. Unlike most games of this type where the art has maybe 
 5 different forms to convey the emotions, the main characters are given about 10 different emotions 
 to display with sound bites to go with them. The art style is immensely appealing to myself and 
 its a setting where Tetsuya Nomura's character designs really fit. I know some may be off put by 
 the art, but it matches the vibe for the rest of the game. The package really gives you the sense 
 of knowing these characters which is essential to giving full impact for the story.
  
  Speaking of vocals, I have no idea how Square-Enix fit all their sound and music into the cartridge. 
 Sound bites, battle grunts, and at least 20 different songs that are constantly playing in the 
 background. Like the rest of the game, it isn't your typical RPG. Hip hop and techno beats are 
 constantly playing which helps add to the overall urban culture and the feeling of Shibuya, though 
 I didnt like the techno ones as Im more of a metal type of person.
  
  I could talk about this game for much longer, but I'll stop here with my mandate once again. Buy 
 this game if you have a DS. Even if you don't like RPGs, there's enough action that you will be 
 satiated. In fact, battles are never a chore. Each one is fun and unique and can be entered as 
 little or as often as you want. RPGs were beginning to lose their flavor with me but The World 
 Ends With You completely revitalized it. Never have I been so addicted to a game. I sincerely hope 
 that it becomes a new franchise for Square-Enix. I would buy any manga, anime, or sequel that would 
 come out if the quality is maintained. Buy this game. Love this game. Trust me.
  
  
  
  
  All The Best eXecutor195 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Hero254
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jul 24, 2008 6:47 pm PT
Review:  We all know Spuare-Enix as those guys who are responsible for the "Final Fantasy" series. I'm not 
 a real fan of the series, since it's the same format. (Fantasy World with nonexistant creatures.) 
 Now I see this new RPG that looks pretty damn good. It's called "The World Ends with You" When 
 I looked at the Previews for it, I thought it looked pretty decent. I got a bit turned off because 
 of the use of both the touch screen & buttons. I bought it, however, & I loved every minute of 
 it. Instead of it taking place in a Fantasy world in the year who knows when, It takes place in 
 Shibuya Tokyo in 2007-2008. (Kudos to Square for keeping it like the original.) We follow this 
 antisocial dic-uh I mean jerk named Neku, who wakes up in Shibuya's Scramble Crossing. He finds 
 a pin and wonders about it. It appears he can read minds with it. He checks his cell phone with 
 a message saying to meet at 104 with a time limit. If he fails, he'll face erasure. After meeting 
 with a girl named Shiki, they go and take on the Noise, the evil creatures in this game. I won't 
 tell you anymore of the story due to spoilers & time constraints. Anyway, The World Ends with You 
 is a real time RPG where you use both screens for combat. (You can use autoplay for the top.) You 
 control Neku with the touch screen & your partner with the top screen. It's overwhelming, but it 
 get's the job done. the characters are real awesone. Besides Neku, there's Shiki, a girl who wants 
 Neku to open up more, Beat, this street talking dude who's pretty cool with his board, Rhyme, Beat's 
 partner, & Joshua, the mysterious character. the main enemies are Noise & Reapers. (Part of which 
 is called "the Reaper's Game") The customization system is based on the trends of fasion & pins 
 are used as your weapons. The music is badass at best, & there's also a shop system, where if you 
 buy enough stuff, you'll get more friendly with the shopkeeper. The difficulty can be hard when 
 you let it, & you'll have to continue & remember to save. It's okay, however, because It'll be 
 worth it. Anyway, The World Ends with you is an awesome new original IP that anyone with a DS should 
 get. If you are an RPG fan, get it for your collection. either way, play it. You'll be glad you 
 did! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: soldjango
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jul 23, 2008 2:21 pm PT
Review:  The World Ends With You is an action-RPG of sorts developed by Jupiter (the team who developed 
 Kingdom Hearts: Chain of Memories) and published by world-renowned RPG developer, Square Enix. 
 In this game, players will run around the streets of Shibuya, a fashion and teen hotspot, as antisocial 
 teenager Neku Sakuraba to the beat of great, original music.
  As aforementioned, the story revolves around Neku. Neku absolutely loves graffiti, primarily by 
 designer CAT. However, Neku isn't nearly as fond of people. Frankly, he hates them, enough so, 
 that he wishes he was the only person in the world. This poses as a problem, because, one day, 
 Neku wakes up in the middle of a famous crosswalk aptly named "Scramble Crossing". Neku gets off 
 the cold pavement and finds that he's holding a black pin with a white, stylized skull-and-crossbones 
 emblazoned on it. Curious, Neku flips it into the air and catches it. The contact causes millions 
 of voices to enter Neku's head. The pin lets him read minds. Before he can panic though, Neku receives 
 a text message on a phone in his pocket that had never been there before. It reads: "Reach 104. 
 You have 60 minutes. Fail and face erasure The Reapers" Along with it, a demonic timer burns itself 
 into Neku's hand. The timer, along with the black pin known as a Player Pin-Neku is now a Player 
 in a very dangerous game known as The Reaper's Game. In it, he must complete one mission a day 
 for seven days. If he fails, he forfeits his right to exist.
  Saying much more than that would spoil it, but The World Ends With You showcases a very intriguing 
 story, filled with entertaining and memorable characters, such as a Game Master obsessed with math, 
 who loves to shout math terms like "Sine, cosine, tangent!" or "You're so zetta slow!", a Reaper 
 who's too lazy to accept a promotion and prefers to trick his partner into buying him ramen, or 
 an insightful, eccentric, caf owner who knows more about the Reaper's Game than he should. Rest 
 assured that it's a great story, almost worth the 40 dollars by itself. The story can take anywhere 
 from 10 to 30 hours (I, myself, clocked in at 27 hours and 18 minutes) , depending on how much you 
 like to fight the fast-paced, exciting battles, and how sidequest-happy you are. After the main 
 story there is a bonus chapter and reports penned by an important story character that fill you 
 in on the backstory.
  The graphics in the game are great too. Jupiter used a style of art not usually in games, and it 
 works quite well with the setting of the game, namely Shibuya. Cutscenes are told through still-image 
 portraits of the characters in different emotional states, with word bubbles to display the text. 
 It works well, even if the cutscenes can be a bit heavy-handed considering how often they occur. 
 Luckily, the dialogue is written well, and can keep you entertained. The backgrounds are great 
 at depicting the different Shibuya landmarks, ranging from the giant shopping centre, the 109 building 
 (renamed 104 in the game) , the Hachiko statue, a common meeting place for Japanese teens, to the 
 Scramble Crossing. 
  During gameplay, characters are displayed with detailed, 2D sprites. They feature smooth animation 
 and show emotion well enough to do the job. The attack animations during battle work surprisingly 
 well, almost as if they were 3D models. However, there is noticeable pixilation, especially when 
 the sprites are zoomed into (such as when Neku runs towards the screen in the overworld) . The music, 
 though, spans a few genres such as J-Pop, Hip-hop, and J-Rock. Most of the 36 tracks are memorable, 
 save for a few background tracks, and are real songs, with lyrics, something not many games do. 
 An early track plays repeatedly throughout the story, and it can start to grate, however, more 
 tracks filter in rather quickly, so it's not all bad. The music is probably better than the graphics 
 are, and each track possesses its own unique style, and you'll most likely find at least 10 tracks 
 that you'll hunt down for your own purposes.
  
  As for actual gameplay, that's excellent too. The World Ends With You is an action-RPG, but puts 
 its own unique twists on different aspects of the genre's conventions. Money can only be gained 
 by trashing pins specifically designated as "1 Yen", "5 Yen", "10 Yen", "100 Yen", "500 Yen", "1000 
 Yen", or "10 000 Yen. Leveling is different too. While still handled in the usual way (defeating 
 enemies to gain experience, which in turn raises your level for stat bonuses) , it can be reversed. 
 What this means is that in the start menu, there is a yellow slider that you can use to raise or 
 lower your level, to increase or decrease the chance enemies will drop items, and make the game 
 easier or harder. Say, for example, Neku is level 25. One could lower his level to 1. His max level 
 is still 25, but Neku's stats are lowered to reflect his level, and the drop rate is now 25, making 
 it 25 times as easy to get items from enemies as it was at level 25. Another aspect of leveling 
 is that the only stat bonus is increased hit points. Attack and defense bonuses are affected by 
 two things: food and clothes. 
  Food can be bought from a number of stores in the game, and then eaten for stat bonuses ranging 
 from increased HP, attack, defense, or brave (more on that shortly) . However, these stat bonuses 
 only take effect after the food is digested. This is done by fighting battles. Each kind of food 
 has a number of "bytes" that it takes from you when you eat it. Think of bytes as your stomach 
 capacity. Neku (and his partners) is allowed to use 24 bytes per 24 real-time hours. And each byte, 
 when digested, takes one byte off the remaining bytes. Also, one battle is equivalent to digesting 
 one byte. So, if a milkshake was 3 bytes big, it would take 3 battles to digest, and whoever drank 
 the milkshake would have 21 bytes left (assuming it was the first piece of food that day) .
  Armor, in The World Ends With You, doesn't mean medieval steel armor, or flak jackets. This taking 
 place is fashion-conscious Shibuya, armor refers to clothes. There are t-shirts, hats, accessories, 
 shoes, pants, shorts and more, each bearing the name of 1 of 13 of Shibuya's hottest brands. These 
 brands have an impact in battle, as the top 3 hottest brands grant the wearer an attack bonus, 
 and the worst brand halves your attack (the other 9 brands don't influence your stats) . Each region 
 of Shibuya has its own hottest brands. Luckily, you can affect which brands are hot by wearing 
 clothes and pins of that brand in battle.
  Speaking of battles, in The World Ends With You, there are no random encounters. In fact, Neku 
 is almost never forced to fight. The only exceptions to this are story-related battles. However, 
 unlike other RPG's, where it's frustrating to increase your level due to having to cause random 
 battles, the player can tap the Player Pin icon at the bottom-right corner of the touch screen 
 to initiate a scan. You can do this anytime you want, and when you do, the world is wrapped in 
 a blue aura, and everyone's tightly protected secrets that lay peacefully in their heads are revealed 
 to Neku. That's not all, either. The Noise are visible, and ready for a fight. All you have to 
 do is tap the Noise symbols to start a fight. You can even chain multiple fights together to increase 
 your drop rate further and make it more challenging.
  In battle, Neku fights on the bottom screen, and his partner fights on the top screensimultaneously. 
 Neku fights with a group of four to six pins he wears that can be activated by different gestures 
 on the touch screen. They're pretty varied too; there's a pin that grants pyrokinesis if you drag 
 the stylus around the screen, a melee attack pin that lets Neku get up close and personal by slashing 
 enemies, and a pin that shoots lighting by rapidly tapping the screen. Over all, the system works 
 well, despite the mind-bending concept, and the large number of pins with different attacks and 
 associated gestures keeps the battles fresh and entertaining. Just in case you equip multiple pins 
 with the same general gesture (such as touching empty space and rapidly tapping the screen) , you 
 can set certain pins to sub-slots, meaning that they will only activate if you hold down L or R. 
 
  On the top screen, Neku's partner stands dead centre of the screen. Their enemies stand on either 
 side, and you use the directional pad to open a combo tree that you go through by pressing directions. 
 Mashing either left or right is a good fallback plan if things get really heated on the bottom 
 screen, however, you can press up to jump, down to dodge or block, or press the direction opposite 
 the way you're attacking to deliver a special technique. The feature here is fusion stars. Once 
 enough are accumulated, Neku gets a special pin to use by tapping the symbol that occurs. The result 
 is a devastating attack that hits every enemy. 
  The method of getting fusion stars is different for each of Neku's partners. For his first partner, 
 Shiki, has 3 playing cards face-down on the top of the screen. What you have to do is guess what 
 symbol the card furthest right holds, either a circle, square, three-parallel wavy lines, or a 
 star. To input your answer, finish a combo that holds a picture of that symbol beside the last 
 attack on the combo tree. You can press up or down while attacking to navigate the different combos. 
 One of Neku's other partners has them playing a game of high or low, and another making pairs of 
 cards by adding cards to a pool before a timer goes and burns the cards, damaging you.
  Also, there are four difficulties that range from Easy to Ultimate. Ultimate adds a layer of hate 
 to a game that's so much fun to play, seeing as how the game gets unbearably hard during the later 
 chapters. Luckily, the developers realized how hard the game could be, and how a little over-confidence 
 could make the player get decimated. Thus, early on, you gain the ability to "reset" battles. Basically, 
 if you die, you have the option of either retrying the battle (s) , retrying on easy, escaping the 
 battle (this can't be chosen for story-related fights) , or quitting to the title screen. With a 
 little luck, and some good co-operation between Neku and his partner, you won't need to see that 
 menu.
  There are some interesting notes about battles as well. The most obvious is that Neku and his partner 
 share a health bar. This means that if you focus too much on one screen, the other could get annihilated 
 and cost you the match. The developers noticed this. To counter, they added a number of AI settings 
 for your partner. You can set them to be fully manual, let the computer take over after 3 seconds, 
 6 seconds, or right away. You can change this setting whenever not in battle to your own tastes. 
 However, not only Neku and his partner share a life bar. The same enemies show up on both screens 
 at once, and they share life bars. For example, if on Neku's screen, spawn two wolf-noise, three 
 bird-noise and a shark-noise, the same enemies (and same amounts) will spawn on the other screen. 
 In addition, each individual enemy shares a life bar with its counterpart, so if you "erase" it 
 on one screen, it will be erased on the other. Useful, and fair; that's how The World Ends With 
 You is. Finally, it's notable to say that Neku's pins each have "boot" and "reboot" times. The 
 boot time indicates the time before a pin can be used at the start of a battle (and only in the 
 first battle if there are more than one chained) . The reboot time tells you how long it takes for 
 a pin to recharge its uses, as each pin can only be used a certain amount of times per charge. 
 Some pins have no boot time, and some pins can't be rebooted. Again, it's all part of balancing.
 
  Another thing The World Ends With You does that most other RPG's don't do, is level weapons (or 
 pins in this case) . Here, pins gain experience with each battle and gain levels just like Neku. 
 Leveling up for pins could mean better a attack stat, more uses before recharging, or a shorter 
 boot/reboot time or evolving. Also, pins can get experience in a few other ways, and certain pins 
 evolve only by gaining certain kinds of experience. The first is called "Mingle PP".
  In The World Ends With You, you can access a mode called "Mingle". This sets up a wi-fi signal 
 that can trade items with any DS it can find also in Mingle mode with The World Ends With You inserted. 
 However, Mingle mode also picks up the signal of any wi-fi device. Every "encounter" grants some 
 experience for your pins.
  The other way of gaining experience is called "Shutdown PP". Basically, you get a set amount of 
 experience depending on how long the DS is shut off, though it only records up to seven days worth 
 of experience. Naturally, this all runs off the DS' clock and can be easily manipulated. Still, 
 it's neat to see the developers reward you for not playing their product.
  On the overworld, gameplay is pretty much limited navigating Neku through the twisted streets of 
 Shibuya, triggering Cutscenes, and reading minds. Sometimes a mission will have you finding things 
 called "memes". Memes are words integral to the mission that you can implant into certain people's 
 minds to influence their thinking, by way of a method called "Imprinting". Imprinting is a straight-forward 
 process, having you look through the target's mind, and finding the right place to plant a meme: 
 easy, simple, and sometimes amusing when you make a mistake. 
  Also, there is a limited multiplayer mode that lets you play a game popular in the fictional Shibuya 
 with a friend. The game is called Tin Pin Slammer, and is highly reminiscent of Beyblade. In short, 
 you use the pins you have equipped to knock your opponents off a table. Your pins also have access 
 to abilities called Whammys. Whammys take the form of one of four "attacks". One lets you swing 
 a hammer around your pin to stun the opponent, surrounding your pin in spikes to protect it is 
 another, slamming your pin into the other's from the air is the third, and saving your pin from 
 going off the edge is the last. Each pin in the game also has stats associated with Tin Pin, such 
 as how likely it is to spin when you slide it, how heavy it is, and how many times you can use 
 each kind of Whammy.
  All in all, The World Ends With You is a fantastic entry into the action-RPG genre. Words can't 
 quite detail the feeling you get while playing the game, holed up with your headphones, madly tapping 
 and swiping away. Anyone with a desire for an interesting story, great gameplay, or just pain, 
 fun owes it to themselves to give The World Ends With You a shot. It's not without simple faults, 
 and it may be nothing more than a series of 0's and 1's, but math-obsessed Reaper, Minamimoto couldn't 
 have said it better than this: "Drown in the wonderful sea of numbers!"
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Drew_Atreides
Rating: 6.5
Date: Jul 23, 2008 8:18 am PT
Review:  Always a sucker for a Square game (and currently finding more games that i love on MY DS then any 
 other system) , this title intrigued me. Add to that all the universially positive word of mouth 
 i was hearing, and I sucked it up and gave the game a chance.
  
  Eh, have to say I was incredibly underwhelmed. Now i know the Japanese have some tastes that are 
 a bit different from the standard North American gamer.... Sometimes i find these differences appeal 
 to me a bit more then others.. This was a case of the style and feel of the game not appealing 
 to me at all. 
  
  The graphics looked fantastic, and i appreciate what they were trying to do something a bit different 
 here, but... man.. Talk about boring gameplay. 
  
  You identify very early on a set of badges (or buttons or what have you) that will grant you victory 
 in pretty much every fight and then... what? What's the point?
  
  This one just didn't do it for me. Think maybe i was outside of it's target-age demographic, too...
 
  
  FFTA2 for me, please. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: PNC123456789
Rating: 10
Date: Jul 22, 2008 8:39 pm PT
Review:  Seriously, this game is really nice... and it's really rare for me to give a game a 10. 
  The story is surprisingly deep and even contain a few heart wrenching moments. Being the cry baby 
 that I am, I even had a few times where I was on the verge of tears. And the dialogue just adds 
 to it! It can be so serious and switch to being hilarious in the blink of an eye. I fell in love 
 with the characters the moment I saw them. They're so well developed and hard not to love.
  
  I also enjoyed the change in combat. Though it did take a me a bit to really grasp onto the 
 sudden change, it was extremely satisfying when I grabbed hold. Now my eyes have been permanently 
 trained to watch both the top screen and the bottom screen without using much effort. Handy, no?
 
  
  I won't say more, since I have a habit of spoiling games accidentally when I'm praising them. Yes, 
 very strange I know. But, I reccommend this wonderful game completely, you won't regret it!
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: johngebreadman
Rating: 10
Date: Jul 21, 2008 3:14 am PT
Review:  This game, originally titled It's a Wonderful World in it's native Japan, is one of the most innovative, 
 original, and brilliant games to appear for a very long time. Even though Square Enix has some 
 of the most popular franchises of all time, in Dragon Quest, Final Fantasy, each one having over 
 8 instalments, it is great to see that their creativity hasn't yet ran dry.
  
  Most of their games involve a fantasy world, with magic and swords, but in The World Ends With 
 You, the game takes place in modern day Tokyo, in the district of Shibuya. The game itself actually 
 recreates this district, with some of its notable landmarks. This realism doesn't mean the game 
 is based in reality though, because it has a very complex, engaging story too.
  
  Neku wakes up in Shibuya with a mysterious phone call. He becomes part of the Reapers game, he 
 has to win within seven days or he will be erased forever. The Reapers try to erase players on 
 the journey, which is basically a euphemism for killing them. They collect an entry fee from all 
 of the players, which is the thing that they cherish most, if they succeed in winning the game 
 this is given back to them. Neku is a very angry teenager, with an absolute hatred of everyone 
 else. When he woke up there was a Pin in his hand, and using this he can see into peoples thoughts. 
 He hates people, so you can imagine he didn't enjoy receiving this. People cannot see him, unless 
 they are players themselves, and when he meets Shiki, she makes a pact with him to become his partner. 
 She is a happy upbeat girl, with a love of fashion, and aspirations of one day becoming a famous 
 fashion designer. There is a lot of friction between the two characters, as each one has different 
 opinions and polar opposite personalities. 
  There are lots of other genuinely interesting characters too, but to even reveal anything about 
 them would spoil the story for you. 
  The story is genuinely amazing, with lots of plot twists, and as is normal with these sorts of 
 characters, Neku overcomes his angst, and loathing, and there are some really moving moments in 
 this game. It isn't only console RPGs with fantastic stories, this game more than lives up to the 
 SE name and the story is fit to be among the Final Fantasies and the Kingdom Hearts. 
  
  The world of Shibuya is explored entirely with the touch screen, with the stylus being used to 
 move Neku through the fashion obsessed area of Japan. The battling is also an innovative mixture 
 of touch screen and button presses. It is a dual screen system, as you have to concentrate on controlling 
 both your partner on the top screen, and Neku on the touch screen. Neku has pins which can be used 
 to battle, some activate when you slash across an enemy on the touch screen, and neku slashes them 
 for damage. Some fire projectiles if you touch empty space, some heal the characters, and others 
 can move objects into enemies. There are over 400 pins, so there is a massive amount of combination, 
 and potential for lots of different ways of battling. On the top screen arrows appear and by pressing 
 the direction of these buttons with the D pad or even the letters if you are left handed you can 
 activate combos. When combos on each screen or completed, a puck is passed between the characters, 
 meaning that your attack gets a temporary boost. Controlling both at the same time would be confusing, 
 but the aim is to launch a combo on the bottom screen, and then quickly shift attention to the 
 top screen to activate a combo, and pass the puck. If you want to though, you can set it so that 
 the AI will take over the top screen after a certain amount of time. 
  The enemies appear on each screen, each screen is a different zone. Each enemy must be defeated 
 in BOTH zones before they are defeated entirely. However if you deplete all their HP in one zone, 
 and there is still some left in the other, the character on the first screen starts depleting the 
 HP in the other zone. Same goes for your own characters, both of them must be defeated for you 
 to lose. 
  
  Fashion plays a big part in Shibuya, with pins and clothes having different brands. In each area 
 of Shibuya different brands are popular, and by wearing the fashionable items you get attack boosts 
 when you engage in battle. If you wear unfashionable items then your attack is lowered. 
  
  Characters can eat food to permanently increase their stats. Each item of food has a certain amount 
 of bytes. When you have fought enough battles equal to the amount of bytes you have eaten, you 
 get the powerup. However, you can only eat 24 bytes a day. 
  
  The characters level up in this game, but this doesn't necessarily make them more powerful. You 
 can choose your level depending on which one you have gotten up to. If you pick a low level you 
 have less HP in battle, but you get better items at the end, and vice versa for a high level, so 
 playing ruthlessly is rewarding. You can also change the difficulty setting, and by playing on 
 a harder difficulty setting you can get better items. 
  
  The battles in this game are not random like some RPGs, you can choose when you want to engage 
 in battle. To battle, you have to scan by tapping your pin (the one Neku woke up with) and you 
 can see enemies called Noise. You can then battle them by tapping on their symbols. If you tap 
 more than one symbol then you activate a chain of battles meaning that you can get better items 
 at the end. 
  
  The graphics are amazing, it is an anime style graphics, and everything is in 2D, which may sound 
 like a bad thing, but its better to have gorgeous 2D characters, than less great 3D ones right? 
 And the areas you explore outside of battle are more 3D, it is just the characters who are 2 dimensional. 
 The game looks a lot like Kingdom Hearts, having had the same character Designer Tetsuya Nomura, 
 with Neku looking very much like Sora. However his hair is a different colour and he always has 
 headphones glued to his ears. The other characters designs do not look recycled though and shiki 
 e. c. t all look great. The area designs, as mentioned previously, are based on real locations, and 
 it is apparently a very good representation of the area (I wouldn't know myself, having never been 
 to Japan) .
  
  The music is a pop/hip-hop/punk based, like popular urban music would be. The songs are all different, 
 and this is a good thing, and I think the music is good, but as I don't listen to pop I wouldn't 
 know, some of the songs annoy me, but the majority of the soundtrack is excellent, especially the 
 ending song. The game also features Voice Actors for some of the main characters parts, and they 
 did pick good ones, it does add to the realism of the characters.
  
  When the game is finished the ending is slightly confusing, but you have the option of going back 
 through all the levels again to find secret reports written by one of the characters, and these 
 explain some of the background to the mysteries, also adding to the not too shabby 30 hour main 
 story. 
  
  Pros: Best game on DS, most innovative battle system for years, fantastic story, great soundtrack, 
 good graphics, long lifespan.
  Cons: Neku looks similar to Sora from Kingdom hearts
  
  Graphics: 10/10
  Story:10/10
  Music and sound: 10/10
  Characters: 10/10
  Gameplay: 10/10
 
  Lifespan  30 hours main quest, with 20 hours extra optional content. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: MetaRidley42
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jul 19, 2008 7:18 am PT
Review:  When I first picked up this game, I was expecting nothing more than a gimmicky combat system and 
 some interesting art that tied in to a real-life location. I was wrong. Dead wrong. This game (if 
 you "get" it) grabs you from the beginning and refuses to let go. I was so caught up in the story, 
 I almost cried during the credits... on my second play-through.
  
  Pros
  
  - Incredibly deep, engaging, and moving story.
  
  - Unique and crazy (but extremely learn-able) 
 combat system
  
  - Great replay value and postgame extras.
  
  - Zetta infinity of quotable lines. (The proof is in the pudding... the pudding of their DOOM) 
 
  
  Cons
  
  - The story ends?
  
  - Music can get just a "bit" too repetitive.
  
  - Maybe a touch too hard or deep for bang-flash type gamers.
  
  
  But this game. If you 
 are willing to invest your time and effort into it, you will not be disappointed. "Squeenix" delivers 
 once again. Now excuse my while I go back to trying to finish polishing my postgame pin decks... 
 and relishing the ending cutscenes again and again.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Noob_Krusher
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jul 18, 2008 1:21 pm PT
Review:  Pros:
  -Graphics and Level Design -Customization and Weapon Evolution
  -Unique and Challenging Gameplay -Intriguing Story and Memorable Characters
  
  Cons:
  -No 
 "Co-Op" Multiplayer -Fashion System can be Ignored for the Majority of the game. -Clothing doesn't 
 appear on characters
  
  
  As the Nintendo DS grows steadily, both in appeal and gaming library, many games surface as casual 
 games. Thankfully, admits those games comes an experience unlike any other. Using both the D-Pad 
 and Touch Screen simultaneously, the user guides Neku through multiple chapters trying to save 
 the conflicted hero from a certain "game" to keep, or retrieve, his life. The music is exciting 
 and the action is non-stop. Through a complex "pin system" the user can customize the move-set 
 for "touch screen" Neku. The partner can be upgraded as well, and if the D-Pad controlled partner 
 lands certain combos , the pair can pull off a glitzy "fusion attack." 
  The controls have a bit of a learning curve, but are slick and keep battles exciting as better 
 moves need time to recharge, and Neku has to really master all 6 of his abilities to be called 
 the victor. Customization with pin evolution, food based stat raising utilizing a real time clock, 
 leveling, and clothing make this adventure truly exciting and unique.
  The story is equally as inviting, but it is nearly impossible to summarize it without dropping 
 in a few spoilers. Rest assured, this Square game is full of twists. The graphical style and witty 
 text moves the player through the adventure painlessly. The joining of a clever stat bonuses and 
 intriguing story make "The World Ends With You" one of the platform's, if not THE platform's, most 
 memorable games.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: TRAPT14
Rating: 10
Date: Jul 18, 2008 12:39 pm PT
Review:  With games today, many give you the same feeling, like you are just playing just another game. 
 That is not the case with The World Ends With You. This game is an instant favorite - it is innovative, 
 new, and has such a fascinating and well-constructed story. Living up to everything you have heard 
 and then some, this game has Square-Enix's magic all over it, from the characters and settings, 
 to the totally new gameplay. Every day (as the game's chapters go by) will have interesting tasks 
 and the story will span out, keeping you guessing and wanting more and more. The World Ends With 
 You gives a similar essence off like that of your first Kingdom Hearts experience. If you've played 
 a Square-Enix game before and like revolution, or even if you don't, -- this game is probably the 
 best game on the Nintendo DS today! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Lovely_beauty
Rating: 9
Date: Jul 15, 2008 7:56 pm PT
Review:  Leaving behind their disagreement with Nintedo about the publishing date of Final Fantasy VII, 
 Square Enix continues to favour the rising consoles Nintendo DS and Wii by releasing their best-selling 
 games like Dragon Quest, Final Fanasy, Kingdom Hearts for them. However, besides thoroughly exploiting 
 these "aces", they also emphasize on developing new trademarks, one example of which is The World 
 Ends With You (TWEWY) , a name that is ruling the roost on many ranking boards.
  
  We can see the difference right in the background of TWEWY: it's not a fairy world like in Kingdom 
 Hearts, Final Fantasy but a real location - the quarter Shibuya in Tokyo, Japan. It's here that 
 the fatal game of our leading character Neku Sakuraba starts. One day the inaccessible hip-hop 
 enthusiast is strolling along the street when he suddenly falls unconscious. Regaining his senses, 
 he realizes a badge in his hand which strangely allows him to read everyone's mind. In the moment 
 of confusion, Neku receives a phone message from a mysterious character called "The Reapers" who 
 claims that he has to go to the building 104 within 60 minutes or die. The boy is even more astounded 
 when figuring out the message can not be deleted from his cell-phone, and the time on it is counting 
 down. Left with no choice, Neku reluctantly does as The Reaper's command and accepts to play his 
 weird game...
  
  Implemented by Jupiter - the squad behind the relative success of Kingdom Hearts: Chain of Memories 
 for GBA, TWEWY also resembles the fast-paced game play of a hybrid Action-Role Playing. Its stand-out 
 is the way two screens of NDS is utilized at the same time to provide gamers with maximum support 
 in control, starting from the fight against the monsters "Noise", which is actually the embodiment 
 of human evil ambitions. While the touch pad and stylus take the responsibility of controlling 
 Neku, simultaneously the upper screen allows manipulating his companions through Control Pad or 
 A, B, X, Y (depends on your forehand) .
  
  The mainstay of the game is to discover and use the Pin, similar to the cards in Kingdom Hearts: 
 Chain of Memroies, allowing you to return hostile actions with physical or magical attacks. There 
 are over 300 of such Pin throughout the game and each requires different movements with stylus. 
 Take Natural Pupy, you will have to cross out Neku's body to fire the energy bullets towards enemies; 
 Psychokinesis requires dragging objects in the scene like automobiles or signpost with stylus to 
 attack; Thunderbolt demands a point right at the target... More particularly, some Pin like Shout 
 forces players to shout into microphone to activate. As you see, the variety of Pin and their usages 
 stimulate discovering and using them, an interest much like hunting Pokemon or powerful card in 
 Megaman Battle Network. Moreover, each pin has the potential to be upgraded, depending on the time 
 they are equipped. Once upgraded, their attack power, duration, times to use (especially important 
 for healing Pin) ect... will increase. It's a pleasant surprise to see some how weak and nearly 
 useless ones at first can reveal their true usages if you take the trouble "ploughing" for them. 
 Besides using Pin, gamers can also enjoy fatal Combo attacks of the main character through a combination 
 of key suitable to the situation in game. This alternative allow you to finish many fight quickly.
 
  
  One point to acknowledge in TWEWY compared to prior Square Enix products (Chrono Cross, Final Fantasy 
 XII) is that the fights are no longer contingent. Instead, when it's necessary to practise with 
 monsters, simply touch the Pin icon on the right side of the screen to activate Neku's mind reading 
 ability, then touch the Noice icon to start the battle. On the other hand, you do not have to keep 
 an eye on checkpoints any more, but can save the game whenever you see fit. More remarkable, if 
 you have little time for the game, the Pin you equip on your character can automatically gain experience, 
 but of course not as fast as when you spend time on them. Such small details show us how the developers 
 take care of players' condition, especially busy ones.
  
  Money always plays an important role in RPG and it's also true for TWEWY - buy and equip new gears 
 for you character like shirts, trousers, gloves, accessories, food ... to increase his attributes. 
 Notice a real factor that after eating food or drinking pep pill, the character needs time to digest 
 all of these. If you cram too much, there will be unexpected side-effects. Along with this, the 
 way you dress also affects the equipped Pin directly. Catch the fashion trends in the area, plusing 
 combining it with the right Pin, will even double the damage you can deal. One more interesting 
 thing is becoming regular patron in a shop. You will gradually accumulate an amount of point there 
 and finally gain many privileges like discount or access to top quality, rare items. Once you have 
 finish this beautiful game, TWEWY allows replay certain chapters to discover more secrets or the 
 fates of each character. Besides, exchanging gears with friends is possible through Mingle. Otherwise, 
 you can play several rounds of Tin Pin Slammer (a mini game for 4 players) to relax and upgrade 
 your Pin.
  
  Designed by the very artist Tetsuya Nomura, one of the key figures in Square Enix who is responsible 
 for major projects like Final Fantasy and Kingdom Hearts, along with his reputed peer Gen Kobyasahi, 
 Graphics in TWEWY is quite decent though it's all 2D. From costumes to manners of all character, 
 all are lively and lissome. The usage of many bright colors along with proper lay-out gains favour 
 with players at first sight. Music quality is also pushed up to "top" when undertaken by Takeharu 
 Ishimoto (Legend of Mana, Vagrant Story...) among other famous musician like Jyongri, SAWA, Ayuko 
 Tanaka.
  
  Converging many advantages of its genre, TWEWY is certainly the number 1 choice for RPG fans these 
 days. It may be too soon to conclude but the game may win many awards this year. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Kailoki
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jul 15, 2008 12:06 pm PT
Review:  When you first pick up the game, the thought of having to control two people on two screens simultaneously 
 may seem like a daunting task. It doesn't help that the styles of fighting are drastically different 
 and requires quick strategy. However, the makers thought ahead. 
  Not only can you can put the top screen player on automatic until you get the hang of the lower 
 touch screen controls, you can change the difficulty settings as well. So even after mastering 
 the controls, you still get a challenge.
  The graphics used in this game is truly innovating. The style fits perfectly with the overall street 
 theme. Characters have intricate personalities that are memorable and evolve throughout the game
 
  With awesome music, a refreshing storyline, and graphics that are above amazing, this game proves 
 to definitely be worth the money. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: erdvilla
Rating: 10
Date: Jul 13, 2008 6:26 pm PT
Review:  The game is well designed and, although it resembles many other RPG, this one is far friendly with 
 the new comers, and has a leveling system that is fair more enjoyable than other RPGs in where 
 you must fight once and again the same monsters to level up. In this one you can just simply turn 
 the difficulty to HARD (at any time in the game) and set your own LEVEL to lower than the actual 
 one you are at, this will give you more EXP and magic or in this case PP upgrade, so you can just 
 fight some semi-hard monster with those setting and you can just came up with the EXP and PP x4.
 
  
  The things I really liked is the real-life style of the game, being played at the streets of Tokyo 
 is something I just loved, but the area is not that big, but you just get immerse in the environment 
 and the style.
  
  Style and Tenders, Brands, and Music are really important in the game, you can go to the streets 
 as a normal style boy or you can express yourself as a Lolita dressed, Punk guy, Richie man..... 
 This will give you bonus in some areas of teh city and in some cases it could give you some pain 
 in teh ass if your dress like a Punk in a High-class zone of the city halving your attack.
  
  The music is some I didn't like 'cause is repetitive, the advantage is that you can enter the 
 menu and put on some tracks that you like, but after leaving the menu the same old track will play 
 giving sometimes headache.
  
  This game will consume about 18 and 35 hours of play-time to finish it depending on your urge to 
 finish it, and it could take much more if you want a perfect completition and playing the after 
 chapters also.
  
  Having the 100% in all can be a little challenging, but that's just for the 100's lovers like me. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: zoralink99
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jul 12, 2008 6:59 am PT
Review:  The World Ends With You (WEWY) is a an great example why developers should take risk. Thanks to 
 the same team who created kingdom hearts: chain of memories on the GBA, we now find ourselves with 
 another great RPG.
  
  Instead of spoiling all the cool innovation of the game (or the great story) in my review, I will 
 simply explain one thing the battle system. This is hands down the coolest battle system ever, 
 but it's a pain to explain so please bear with me. In this game you fight creatures called noise. 
 Now you might be thinking are they random battles. No they are not. You get to chose when you fight 
 by simply touching noise symbols on the playing field. When you fight them you control two characters 
 at the same time. On the bottom screen you fight with Neku. He is controlled entirely with the 
 touch screen. To attack you must tap, swipe, circle , slash, hold or scratch the noise or the surroundings 
 (it all depends on what Pins you have on) . On the top screen you control Neku's partner by pushing 
 different buttons in a certain order on the control pad . This may sound hard to do, but the game 
 feeds this to you slowly enough so that you can get a good hold on it. And even if you can't thats 
 okay because you can set up the top character to fight by themselves.
  
  All in all this game is a must have, if you own a DS. You may be hesitant to by this game, but 
 it's definitely worth the 45 dollar price tag and if you like RPGs you'll love it and if you don't 
 you'll learn to love RPGs thanks to this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Dizzyman572
Rating: 10
Date: Jul 11, 2008 2:24 pm PT
Review:  Pros: Strong Story that's filled with moments where you say "Whoa, I didn't see that coming."- 
 Gameplay is Awesome - Great Soundtrack - Great graphics even for the DS - Great combat system - 
 Uses all of the DS's capabilities - Combat system is both different and fun. 
  
  Cons: Some pins can get messed up during use- The story ends.
  
  
  
  In "The World Ends 
 With You", you play as a teenage boy named Neku. Just like our Government, he is completely cut 
 himself off from the world. All of this changes when he enters this event called 'The Reapers' 
 Game' 
  
  Why is Neku involved in The Reapers' Game? Not telling. It's one of the biggest surprises in the 
 game; I'd be crazy if I told you that.
  
  Moving on, I really love the soundtrack in this game. Heck, I loved it so much that I decided to 
 connect my DS to my stereo, just so I can hear it even louder. The only thing I hate about the 
 soundtrack is why can't turn it up even more.
  
  At first playing on two screens at once can seem a little hectic. But after a few hours or so, 
 you'll start getting the hang of it. On the bottom screen you use your stylist to control pins 
 (Square Enix's term for magic) while playing as Neku. On the top screen you use the D-Pad (and/or 
 A, B, X, Y buttons.) to control your partner. 
  
  I must say, Square Enix have outdone themselves this time.
  I would suggest this to anyone who 
 own or wants a DS.
  I give this game, five thumbs out of five.
  
  P. S. Be sure to check out the Hardcore Gaming Union, where I learned all of my review skills. I'll 
 catch you later when I review the Bourne Conspiracy for Xbox 360. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Andrn
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jul 10, 2008 5:26 pm PT
Review:  The World Ends With You is a game for the Nintendo DS that was American-ized from its Japanese 
 brethren, It's A Wonderful Life. The game is great for casual and hardcore gamers with its accessible-at-any-time 
 difficulty adjuster available at the in-game menu, spanning from Easy to Ultimate (with Normal 
 and Hard in-between) . There is also a Level Adjustor too, making the possibility of playing at 
 Level 1 on Ultimate a reality for the game.
  
  Although it initially seems difficult to master, the combat system does a great job of making players 
 multi-task by using both screens as the fighting area. One screen uses the D-Pad or Buttons to 
 attack (making this game open to both lefties and righties) , while the other screen uses the stylus 
 to attack the "Noise." Noise are animal-based enemies that are manifested from the negative feelings 
 of humans, fyi. The combat system is quite deep, having Neku on the bottom-screen use "Pins" to 
 attack the Noise. Each Pin has its own "Psych," meaning that a different use of the stylus is demanded 
 for each Pin, making players open to have their own best way of fighting by using the 304 different 
 Pins.
  
  As if that wasn't enough, there are also Threads that function as armor for the 4 Shibuyans that 
 players direct throughout the game. While it may seem a bit unnecessary, each Thread has a different 
 brand, and each area of the game provides boosts to a character depending on what brands they are 
 wearing. Of course, players may opt to make their characters wear nothing, or have the 3 males 
 cross-dress if their Bravery stat is high-enough. Combat is also aided by the consumption of food. 
 Each food product that someone buys in the game gives a boost to either HP, Bravery, Attack, or 
 Defense.
  
  Replay value is also not an issue. After the main story of the game is beaten, players may select 
 to play any of the chapters that they have already done, and a new chapter opens up to players! 
 There are also miscellaneous values that a player may slowly fill in, such as having 100% of items 
 available throughout the game, how many different types of enemies are encountered, how many enemies 
 are defeated, and how many of the 304 Pins have been Mastered throughout a player's trials.
  
  There are not many downsides to be seen from TWEWY, although there is only one save slot, containing 
 massive amounts of J-Pop (only a downside if your head will explode upon listening) , and having 
 an Emo main character (however, throughout the story, he will evolve to see the decency inside 
 of people) . However, if someone were to stick it out until the end, they would find one of the 
 best RPGs available for the DS today, containing abundant replay value, charmingly written dialogue, 
 and one of the best stories that has been written in present times. 
  
  RATINGS:
  Gameplay: 10/10 (Innovative and fun)
  Graphics: 9/10 (Gets a bit pixelly on small areas, but 
 otherwise great)
  Sound: 9/10 (JPop is fun, but a bit repetitive, and might not suit your tastes)
  Value: 10/10 
 (Brings a deep breath to the lungs of DS gaming)
  Tilt: 10/10 (Auto-down leveling if you want, and difficulty adjuster available at any time) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Smojus
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jul 9, 2008 6:30 pm PT
Review:  (Kingdom Hearts and The World Ends With You are compared because all games in the KH series are 
 amazing and they are both made by Square Enix)
  
  Anyways TWEWY is an amazing game you play as a 15 yr old anti social boy named Neku who wakes up 
 in the middle of the "Scramble crossing"
  remembering nothing other then his name about himself. Neku then fnds a strange black pin on his 
 chest he tosses it up in the air catches it and all of a sudden he sees everyone's thoughts! You 
 get up and nobody can see or hear you but as Neku walks around strange frogs come out of nowhere 
 and attack him!
  
  And then a girl named Shiki blindly runs into Neku and makes a "pact" with him (I know what your 
 thinking OMG H@X0R WTFFFF IS P@CTTTTT?!?!?! don't worry you find out soon enough if you buy this 
 totally awesome game!)
  
  Well that's pretty much the very beginning moments of the game so now i get to the review!
  
 
  
  
  TWEWY is a great game with an amazing combat system (you control both you and your partner at the 
 same time) it sounds hard but it's actually pretty easy you use the sylus for neku and d pad for 
 Neku (or letter buttons if your a lefty)
  
  This game also has amusing cutscenes and the characters swear just at the right times to keep it 
 amusing!
  
  It also has tons of pins, enemies, stat boosting food items, different items to keep your stats up, 
 good AI, and different partners for different fighting styles (Shiki for beginners, Beat for brute 
 strength, and Joshua for more strategic people)
  
  Of course as awesome as this game is there are 2 things that bug me about it
  1: the clothes 
 you put on don't actually change your appearance
  2: the map does'nt make any sense so you h ave to memorize eery turn to prevent yourself from wandering 
 around looking for cat street and molco or wherever you can't find
  
  Also i do have some tips to give about this game here they are:
  Don't worry you did'nt do something 
 wrong if you don't have every slot or ultimate mode when you beat the game because after you beat 
 the last boss you can buy them all
  
  you can get a ton of money by doing shiki and joshua chapters and killing tons of random noise 
 on ultimate mode 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cog2k
Rating: 9
Date: Jul 9, 2008 6:29 pm PT
Review:  I Don"t like many rpgs, I played FF III on the ds and hated it, but I loved this!
  It is not to difficult and I only died on bosses and when I did I had the option of switching it 
 to easy. The story is very interesting and I was constantly surprised by plot twists. Your character 
 is Neku and you wake up in a world where you can't remember anything and no one can see you. Many 
 people have said controlling two characters was difficult but you can set them to auto play while 
 you are controlling the other character. The multiplayer is a game called Tin Pin Slammer where 
 you knock your opponents pin ( the items you use to attack) off with yours and is totally unrelated 
 to any in game fighting. The only other bad thing is sometimes there is to much talking and no 
 way to skip it but other than that TWEWY is a game every one should get and definitely one of the 
 best ds games. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kevin091
Rating: 9
Date: Jul 5, 2008 4:29 am PT
Review:  In a nutshell: Presenting a unique and compelling story, innovative combat mechanics and great 
 presentation, Tetsuya Nomura's new RPG sets the bar high for future DS RPGs and totally excellent 
 from start to finish.
  
  More than routine
  When you open the game and make a new save file, you'll see that there are people walking around 
 the street ignoring the game's obviously moody protagonist. This anime-styled, spiky haired moody 
 protagonist thing is very much routine for a Square Enix RPG (or maybe any RPG nowadays) and if 
 you jam in fighting, a fantasy story, the optional Disney cameo, customization and a weird fairyland, 
 there you have it: a Square Enix RPG!
  
  But the game is a lot more than that. To make things different, it gets set in Shibuya- Japan's 
 shopping capital- where people use cellphones, eat fastfood and gossip about a certain "Prince"'s 
 blog, and it utilizes both screens of the DS to fight and you use the stylus and the D-pad to control 
 both characters. A lot more aspects are more than routine in this game, and I'll discuss it and 
 break them down later. But for now, we cover...
  
  Graphics
  The 2D presentation is wonderful. OK, maybe if while you're walking, the character sprites get 
 blurry when they're near you but that's the presence of the feel of proximity. Other than that, 
 the drawn characters are expressive and more importantly- goodly drawn. There are also a lot of 
 great looking attack effects and video sequences presented throughout the game.
  
  Sound
  The game is scattered with many, many voice samples. For example, when you give a character food 
 to eat, they could say, "It's edible.", and if you let them eat something else, they'll say something 
 else.
  
  And another thing is the soundtrack which I have mixed emotions for. Based from the location set, 
 it's obvious that it's full of J-Pop. One thing's for certain, though, they'll get stuck in your 
 head whether you like it or not! You can purchase these tracks for listening in your Phone Menu- 
 yes, your phone serves as the menu for everything like Save, Items, etc..
  
  Gameplay
  Most of the actions in the game is touch-screen based like Zelda. However, one twist to this is 
 in the fighting. When you make a combo with Neku (the spiky protagonist) , a green light goes up 
 to your partner because when you fight, you need a partner to survive, and when the green light 
 goes to your partner, stylus input is obviously impossible, therefore you use the D-Pad, or if 
 the player is left-handed, the A-B-X-Y buttons. And when you complete a combination with your partner, 
 the attack is doubled and the green light will be passed back to the bottom screen. Initially, 
 the system is daunting, but once you get used to it, the alternating combat system between two 
 screens ain't so bad after all. And if it gets too out of hand, you can tell the game through its 
 Phone Menu to get A. I. to control your partner. However, for me, the A. I. just doesn't cut it because 
 it usually depletes most of the HP which both share.
  
  Customization
  Customization has become routine to RPG's. But here, it has a twist. OK, so you look at the effects 
 of an accessory or stats increase at first, but when you go back to the Phone Menu, you will see 
 a top three chart that says what brand is hot in a certain area and what's not. If you equip an 
 accessory or clothing that has a brand that is on the top of the charts, you'll be able to have 
 an additional 120% increase in Attack, otherwise when you equip the brand of fashion that's lowest 
 in rank, your attack decreases by 120% and so on...
  
  The teenage lifestyle
  It definitely emulates the stereotypical superficial teenage lifestyle you'll typically find almost 
 note by note, and people can probably relate to some happenings in the game. Plus, this story is 
 not only a unique story of a certain "game" that puts out daily missions to its "Players" who are 
 in turn inspected by the "Reapers", it's also a story of change and maturity and loss among other 
 themes, and most of its moments are actually, genuinely, if not surprisingly, affecting!
  
  Overall
  Despite the Final Fantasy's and the Kingdom Hearts blockbuster franchises, Square Enix 
 isn't afraid to bring something new in their established history of RPG franchises. If The World 
 Ends With You doesn't get a magnificent sequel, well I'll be darned! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SpoonMan54321
Rating: 10
Date: Jul 2, 2008 9:32 am PT
Review:  I would not have even considered this game if not for the ranting and raving of Penny Arcade! I 
 am SO glad I gave it a shot. Best handheld RPG ever made bar none, and I am including Pokemon in 
 that consideration, and I love the Pokemon games. This easily breaks into my top 10 or even 5 RPGs 
 ever.
  
  Can't say anything about the story since anything I say would be *MASSIVE SPOILERS*. The best thing 
 to do is just play it knowing nothing. You'll be sure to way WTF! a few times at all the twists.
 
  
  Battle is joy. Dual-screen combat has never been done this well before. I got stuck at a boss once, 
 then decided I should go level up. I got so into how fun it was to just fight random enemies that 
 I gained 20 levels without even realizing it. 
  
  For completionists: You will spend nearly forever on this game. Items, Pin Mastery, Noise Report, 
 beating every enemy at level 1, getting every rare drop from every enemy, stat maxing... You're 
 gonna be here awhile.
  
  I could sit here and type about this for another hour or so but it wouldn't matter. All I really 
 want to say is this:
  
  Buy this game. You have 7 days. Fail and face erasure. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TeenGamer92
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 29, 2008 1:28 pm PT
Review:  The World Ends With You is a phenomenal game. You play as a kid named Neku Sakuraba. He's a very 
 secluded person who hates other people. Neku is thrown into "The Reaper's Game" with no memory 
 of how it happened. While playing through the game, Neku meets a variety of people and even makes 
 close friends. At the end of the game, he learns to accept people the way they are and becomes 
 an all around better person. I think that's it's the best game that Square has released since Final 
 Fantasy XII and Kingdom Hearts 2. The gameplay uses every single button on the DS, which is what 
 every DS game should, the storyline was spectacular, the graphics were'nt bad for a hand-held system, 
 and the game itself was perfect! What really surprised me is that most of the cutscenes were voiced 
 or had voiced reactions from the characters. I kept playing this game for a solid month! I still 
 haven't unlocked Rhyme's character on the save screen by buying/owning every item in the game though. 
 I do have everyone else's however! The last thing that really surprised me was the fact that some 
 of Neku's lessons that he learned could even be applied to real life. If you haven't gotten The 
 World Ends With You for the DS, it's a must-have. If you don't have a DS, get one and make this 
 your first game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: confusd
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jun 27, 2008 9:04 am PT
Review:  The world ends with you is an amazing game. Basically the plot seems incredibly strange and weird 
 at the beginning, but as you get deeper into the story youll be playing not just because of the 
 stellar touch screen/control pad controls, but to find out what happens next. The controls are 
 rather confusing at first, and may take a bit of getting used to. You control touch screen attacks 
 on the bottom screen using motions with the stylus, while getting combos with on the top screen. 
 its fun and it works. lots of extra missions and a cool clothing system help too. my only problem 
 is that if you have two attacks equipped with the same touch screen move, it doesnt really work, 
 i. e. having two attacks equipped that both sayscratch and empty space" only one will work until 
 one of the two is recharging. This game is probably the best DS game i've ever played, so if you 
 own a DS you need to own the world ends with you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bodjoe921
Rating: 9
Date: Jun 26, 2008 1:22 pm PT
Review:  I know most of you were hoping this game would be some what like the Kingdom Hearts franchise, 
 but sadly to say Disney is sitting this one out. Although that doesn't nessacerily make this game 
 bad, in fact it's actually a real knock out. This game has it all. A GREAT storyline, Great graphics 
 ( for a DS game ) , and a Great soundtrack.
  You start out playing as a teen named Neku, Neku apparently wakes up in the middle of a place named 
 Shibuya with no memory of who he is. After he wanders around the town a bit he is attacked by creatures 
 called the Noise. With no way to fight back Neku retreats and runs into a girl named Shiki who 
 becomes his partner and that's basically where the adventure starts.
  *
  The storyline in the game gets more and more interesting the farther you get into the game, and 
 also gets progressively harder the farther you go.
  *
  The graphics are very outstanding and are some of the best graphics on the DS yet!
  *
  The 
 game's soundtrack features over 30 songs.
  *
  The game may seem kind of high to DS owners seeing as how most of everyone of the DS games out 
 now are around $30 or less, while The World Ends With You is $40 + tax, But trust me if you are 
 a fan of Squire - Enix past games the you'll love this one!
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: thesarcasmguru
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 26, 2008 10:33 am PT
Review:  Summary: Best Square Enix Game to date. Best DS Game to date. Very Innovative and new. Possible 
 one of the best games ever. Some minor problems dont seem to have any impact on this games playability.
 
  
  Gameplay: Best aspect of this game. You control a character on the top and bottom screens. The 
 Bottom screen uses pins (not unlike cards) to use powers. The Pins are activated by touch screen 
 commands. The commands themselves are flawless. BUT probably the only real problem with this game 
 is that the pins are often very repetitive with the same attacks and touch commands. This However 
 isn't too annoying. The top screen is simple and only uses the control pad. One HUGE feature is 
 for lefties (like me) you can use the x, y, a and b buttons instead. If you chain your combos correctly 
 you can get a fusion attack that hurts enemies on both screens and restores your hp.
  Also you and your partner share the same hp bar and so do your enemy's. Also you can chose your 
 difficulty at any time. And lower your level to get better spoils.
  
  Story: Very interesting. The main character, Neku, wakes up in the middle of an intersection in 
 Japan. No one notices him. He soon teams up with a girl named Shiki. That is all I'm going to reveal, 
 but it the backround of the situation they're in gets darker and darker as time goes on. 
  
  In ahort this game is a must for any DS owner or anyone who likes RPGs this is a very cult 
 and artistic game so it may not be for everyone. But people like me who love RPGS will love this 
 game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: JapaniJason
Rating: 9
Date: Jun 25, 2008 6:49 pm PT
Review:  The World Ends With You has one of the most complex styles of gameplay I have ever encountered. 
 Playing this game is a lot like playing the drums: you have to try to keep the same beat with two 
 different sides of your brain. Except, in this case, you are pressing buttons with one hand to 
 control the top screen character and trying to draw like crazy with the other hand to control the 
 character on the bottom screen. As complicated as all of this sounds, it turns out to be one of 
 the most fun games to date for the Nintendo DS. Add this unique gameplay with the gripping story 
 and it comes out to be an all around great game. And don't worry too much about the complexity 
 of the gameplay. You are able to adjust difficulty at any point during the game and if a boss is 
 just unbeatable you can choose to replay the fight in easy mode. Plus, you can make the character 
 on the top screen be controlled by AI, so you can focus on the bottom screen. You can also adjust 
 the amount of HP you have in a fight at the cost of items rewarded. It makes the game playable 
 for a wide variety of skill levels and players. It also looks and sounds very clean. It has very 
 upbeat music that can get redundant and annoying after a while, but you can always just turn off 
 the sound if it bothers you. I suggest this game to people looking for a challenge. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gamefanatic544
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 25, 2008 6:30 am PT
Review:  "The World Ends With You". TWEWY is an anime-style, Action Role-Playing game developed by Square 
 Enix and Jupiter Corp. The game is about the Main Character named Neku and his journey in the "Reaper's 
 Game". The Main Antagonists in the game are the people who control the world you are in, the "Reaper's". 
 The monsters you fight in the game are summoned by the Reaper's; they are called "Noise". 
  
  The unique part about this game is that you must fight on both screens at the same time! This 
 may be confusing at first but you'll get used to it once you start playing the game. All of Neku's 
 attacks are done with the Touch Screen and all of Shiki's attacks are done with either the +Control 
 Pad or the A B X Y Buttons. All of Neku's attacks make you utilize the Psych Pins which you'll 
 get early on in the story. There are many different types of Psychs, there are: Touch Psychs, Slash 
 Psychs, Drag Psychs, and Microphone Psychs. 
  
  You'll only start with a few Pins but after progressing in the story you'll get a whole lot more 
 (Pins can also be bought in one of the varies stores in Shibuya) . For Shiki's attacks you'll start 
 by pushing one of the buttons (Left or Right on the +Control Pad depending on the direction of 
 the Noise) then you'll see the Combo Map on the screen, you simply have to push the buttons according 
 to map going either straight, up, or down. The point of this is not just to put more pain on the 
 Noise, but to get the correct ESP Cards, which are on the top of the screen. If you get one or 
 more of the cards in the correct order you will be awarded stars depending on the amount of cards 
 you got right on the first try (the cards replenish themselves after you get all three correct) . 
 If you get enough of these stars you will be awarded a "Fusion Pin" that is placed on the top right 
 of the Touch Screen.
  
  This pin will activate Neku and Shiki's Fusion! Later in the story you will get other partner's 
 with similar ways to get the Fusion Pins (every character has a different Fusion) . This is but 
 only a brief description of all the things you can do and experience in TWEWY. Some other things 
 are Tin Pin Slammer, Mingling, Friends, Chapter Select, and Items, to name some. But you can figure 
 out what those are once you get the game. 
  
  TWEWY is an amazing game that anyone can enjoy, so get your copy today! So bye and remember "The 
 World Begins With You".
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: xxx369
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jun 24, 2008 4:22 pm PT
Review:  They pulled it off. Again. After showing us that a mix of Final Fantasy and Disney could work, 
 Square Enix and the Jupiter team came up with the most innovating RPG available for the DS, and 
 perhaps the best one.
  
  The World Ends With You is set on the Shibuya district in Tokyo, a place that actually exists (sorry, 
 they are no swords and castles this time) . A boy named Neku, who doesn't trust anyone, wakes up 
 in the middle of the street, with no memories, after being attacked by some weird frogs, Neku meets 
 a girl named Shiki, and they form a pact so they can counter the Noise (the monsters in TWEWY, 
 like the frogs) , then, she explains that you are playing a game, in which you have to accomplish 
 one mission per day, for a week, or else, be erased. That's only the beginning of one of the most 
 awesome stories ever! TWEWY's story is also very dependant on its cast of characters, (and it has 
 some of the most charming characters you've ever seen) being trust one of the major themes on the 
 game.
  
  Every mission in TWEWY follows a simple pattern, I'll get a mission on your phone (like going from 
 point A to point B, or talking to someone) , but your path will get constantly blocked by invisible 
 walls. Usually, you'll just have to talk to a Reaper in a red hood and do whatever he tells you 
 to (like killing x number of Noise or bringing a pin) in oder to open your path. Some missions 
 can be pretty annoying, specially in the beginning, since they tell you where you need to go, but 
 not how you get there, and the map is pretty useless. Thankfully this is a minor problem since 
 Shibuya isn`t very big, and after a while, you'll know how to get where you have to go.
  
  But TWEWY biggest innovation and highlight is its battle system. You battle in both of the screens 
 at the same time, this may sound too hard, and it does take time to get used to. In the bottom 
 screen you control Neku using only the Stylus, you use pins to attack (there are 300 in the game) , 
 each pin has its own effect and must be activated in a different way, some may be activated by 
 scratching the enemy, or even blowing on the DS mic, also, the pins evolve with time, gaining more 
 attack power, or even, new functions. While controlling Neku, you can also control Neku's partner 
 on the other screen, even though you DON'T HAVE to, since after a few moments of inactivity, the 
 computer will take on the upper screen. Neku's partner is controlled with the D-Pad, you have to 
 press a pre-determined sequence of buttons to unleash combos, but Neku's partners have different 
 fighting styles, so there are different ways to unleash Fusion Attacks (extremely devastating attacks, 
 that refill some HP) with each one.
  
  TWEWY has other unusual mechanics. Here, your equipments are T-Shirts, Jackets, Backpacks, and 
 this kind of stuff, each equipment (and pins too) has a brand, brands can be strong or weak in 
 certain places, so if you're wearing a strong brand, you'll get some bonuses but in the other hand, 
 if you're wearing a weak one, you lose def our atk power. Another interesting feature is the ability 
 to read peoples thougts and imprinting ideas on them, even though you'll rarely use these abilities.
 
  
  On the technical standpoint TWEWY is a blast too, its sprites look great, specially in motion and 
 it has some of the DS most awesome tracks (actually, I bought TWEWY soundtrack at iTunes store, 
 and I wrote this whole review listening to "Someday") .
  
  TWEWY isn't quite the biggest game ever, it last about 15 hours, but you WILL want to replay it, 
 since there's so much to do. 300 Pins, many equipments, side missions, unlockable tracks and Secret 
 Reports to collect (that add a lot to the game's story) .
  
  So, if you have have a DS and like RPGs, that's the perfect game for you. Awesome graphics, one 
 of the DS's best soundtrack, interesting story, and a innovative battle system await you in one 
 of the most different RPGs released in years. THE WORLD ENDS WITH YOU.
  
   9.0
   9.5 
  Replay Value.................. 
 9.0
   10.0
   9.5
  
   9.5 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Raikoh_
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jun 23, 2008 11:04 am PT
Review:  The World Ends With You is an RPG developed by the boys at Square Enix. You're put into the shoes 
 of Neku, who is forced to complete a series of mission of face erasure.
  
  The World Ends With You features a very original storyline. You play as Neku, who wakes up in the 
 middle of Shibuya with a case of amnesia and begins receiving odd text messages containing missions 
 that he must complete before the timer on his hand reaches zero. If you've played any Jrpg you 
 already know this game is heavy on teen angst. Neku spends most of his time complaining about people 
 and assumes he needs only himself to survive.
  
  The game play is flawless and really takes advantage of the DS' capabilities. You'll use pins to 
 use various attacks, each pin requires a certain process you must go through to activate the pin, 
 like tapping on the screen or blowing into the mic. The pins may or may not evolve depending on 
 what you do. Some evolve after a battle, some evolve after you turn the game on, and others may 
 evolve if you mingle. You mingle with other people over the DS' wi-fi or trade pins with them. 
 If you don't have any friends, you can let your DS mingle away while random things occur in the 
 room. You play the game with an AI partner who takes up the top screen and you get to use the touch 
 screen during battle. You may control your AI partner by using the D-pad or you can set him/her 
 to automatic so you can pay more attention to the bottom. If you string together to the right combos 
 Neku will sync up with his partner and they can deliver a powerful attack to all enemies and recover 
 some health in the process. One of the cons to the game is that you and your partner share the 
 same bar of health making it a heck of a lot easier to die. You can stroll around Shibuya and purchase 
 different items to enhance your stats. An interesting aspect of the game is that depending on what 
 kind of pins you're using and the type of clothing you're wearing at the time, you can influence 
 the fad in that area. This makes you pins stronger if you have the kind equipped. The graphics 
 are very pretty since they blend graffiti and Japanese anime. The artwork is very pretty and the 
 cutscenes are nicely done and the sound is ok.
  
  I would recommend this to anyone with a DS and is looking for a fun new game to play. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Altriak
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jun 23, 2008 10:12 am PT
Review:  "The World Ends With You" is an innovative game that is very refreshing when placed against other 
 RPGs in the genre. You have your typical leveling up system and large breadth of powers, but the 
 game has significant differences that bring the light a whole new type of gameplay.
  
  
  Graphics: 
  The graphics are absolutely beautiful, I must say. The game is two-dimensional, so 
 that means it will age rather well, unlike most 3-d games out there. Things are very easy to read 
 as well (text-wise, battle-wise, and exploration-wise) , which is much more than I can say for some 
 games out there that have super tiny text, or a horrendously large amount of explosions, flashes 
 etc that make things hard to make out. 
  
  
  Game Play
  
  The battle system is what makes this game extremely unique. The first thing that sets this game 
 apart is the two-screen battles that you play. On the top screen, the battle is completed using 
 the d-pad (or the buttons, if you're left handed) while the character is mostly static while he/she 
 attacks. On the bottom screen, everything is done with the stylus, including movement of your character. 
 The top screen, however, can be set to automatic if you have trouble keeping up with both battles, 
 which is a good inclusion for beginners. but can be far from optimal.
  
  The powers that can be used by Neku, the main character, on the bottom screen are vast and translate 
 from a particular stylus stroke (Such as tapping an area on the screen or slashing across an enemy) . 
 Combining these powers is fun, and you may find yourself taking a lot of time figuring out which 
 powers work well enough together. Unfortunately, the game has a hard time reading some strokes 
 in the game. For example, if a power requires me to draw a circle, it never seems to recognize 
 the circle. This can be devastating when enemies are hitting you and you need to counter.
  
  Another small gripe I have about the game is the "fashion" gimmick, where if you wear a particular 
 "brand" of clothing or power, you gets bonuses or penalties. This can get rather tedious as you're 
 very often switching areas, which all have unique "fashion" taste, and you'll sometimes end up 
 finding yourself with a weakened power that does half damage unless you're anal about switching 
 all youre clothes or powers out between each area.
  
  Nevertheless, the positives definitely outweigh the negatives in this game.
  Sound: 
  
  The 
 sound effects are great. It's very clear as to what's going on, and I like the fact that the character 
 voices give you feedback as to whats happening. For example, if Neku gets hurt, his partner will 
 respond. This inclusion is very nice considering that your attention may be paid to the other screen 
 where you would not have realized that Neku was damaged. 
  
  The music is also superb as well and is worth listening to even outside of the game itself. I would 
 suggest going to youtube to listen to some samples.
  
  
  Story: 
  
  The story is nice, and the characters very well developed. Each character has a distinct personality 
 (such as Neku being an anti-social, Shiki being the fashionable, yet friendly girl, etc) Their 
 interactions further their personalities, making it for an enjoyable experience. In addition, the 
 game is fairly lengthy and is well worth the investment!!
  
  Overall score: 9.5
  
  Please treat yourself to this game. You won't regret it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mirokarosu0
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 22, 2008 7:57 pm PT
Review:  At first, I never really knew about this game at all, until I read on the Internet that this was 
 a great game. This game uses your touch screen, and your control pad. The battle controls uses 
 both your control pad and your touch screen. On the game, you control one character, and you have 
 one partner. The battling system is really good, and effective. You battle using the touch screen, 
 and your partner battles using the control pad.
  
  The game is excellent, really fun and great graphics too! What more can a gamer ask for?
  
 
  Once you've finished the game, there's an extra chapter on which you can use to train, and redo 
 the whole game. The bosses are tough, and takes some tries to defeat. It's a perfect game!
  
  Overall, the plot is kind of weird and awkward, but the game is really fun and addictive. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nintendo890
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 28, 2008 9:23 pm PT
Review:  The World Ends With You was my favorite DS game of all time. Everything about it was amazing: story, 
 characters, and fighting. The music was a little hard to get into but after a while I almost enjoyed 
 it. The story was defiantly the best part so much great stuff about it, with all the plot twist 
 I've come to love in an RPG. This is my favorite Square game to date; it was different than their 
 two other famous games series Final Fantasy and Kingdom Hearts. The ending didn't leave for much 
 room for there to be a sequel but there is always that chance. The characters had so much development 
 they made you able to relate to them. I highly recommend this game to anyone with a little patience 
 because there is a lot of dialogue. The graphics fit the game perfectly with a classic 16-bit look 
 to it. After you beat the game there is still so much to do collecting them secret reports. A must 
 have for anyone be an RPG fan or otherwise. All hail TWEWY, a game most will look back at and say 
 "That was purely astounding". 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BelmontV
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jun 20, 2008 7:26 pm PT
Review:  Game Reviewed: "The World Ends With You"
  Quick Opinion: A must-have/play for RPG fans and DS gamers.
  ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
  1. Opinion/Introduction: "The World Ends With You" is a game that absorbs the player into its 
 storyline and amazing game-style. After playing so many DS titles I have to say that "The World 
 Ends WIth You" simply brought tears to my eyes. Its graphics and animation are simple yet intriguing 
 to watch.
  ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
  2. Storyline: "The World Ends With You" takes place in a town called "" which is divided into 
 different sectors, you start with the main character (named Neku) who awakens to find that his 
 memory (besides his name) is completely wiped out, he receives a text message on his cellphone 
 indicating that he has a certain amount of time to complete a mission or he will be eradicated/erased 
 from existence. Eventually Neku goes to a different section where he's attacked by the enemies 
 in the game (called "Noise") , and so the story begins.
  ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
  3. Controls/Interface: The game brings an amazing interface that puts you in the position of controlling 
 two characters (Neku in the bottom screen, which you control with stylus gestures/moves, and a 
 2nd character on the top screen which you control using the arrows/moving-pads [if you're a righty] 
 or the buttons X, Y, B, and A [if you're a lefty] ) . You battle using pins that you collect (by 
 various methods/means) and decide which ones you use (before the battle by going to the main screen) .
 
  
  The character controls feature different ways to battle with Neku by utilizing different pins (which 
 are in different categories, each category uses a different way to attack with the pin, depending 
 on the gestures/moves you make with the stylus) . You control/move Neku around by slashing/striding 
 the stylus on him and then either moving it slowly/mid-fast to move him or slash to a certain area 
 in the screen to move Neku. 
  
  There are different ways/methods to control your partner on the top screen (each partner is different) , 
 but if you're not used to the controls you can set the partner to attack by himself after a period 
 of time (either: immediately, after 3 seconds of using him, or 6 seconds) .
  
  ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
  4. Graphics/Animation: The animation of the game is quite intriguing and goes well with the characters 
 and battle features, while its nothing super extraordinary, its well made and the art is quite 
 nice (its similar to that of "Kingdom Hearts: Chain of Memories" for GBA) . The animation is pretty 
 good and is well made, it shows a good aspect of how art/animation can be shown on the DS and maintain 
 good quality imaging and graphics.
  ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
  5. Music/Sound-Effects: The music is the best I've ever heard on a DS title. It features different 
 songs that go with the battle system and during gameplay, thought the music is repeating it doesn't 
 annoy you or get boring at any time and is very compatible with the style and storyline-based gameplay. 
 The sound-effects are very well made and add a nice touch to the enjoyment of the game.
  ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
  6. Challenge: The challenge/difficulty of the game depends, you start out with "Normal" difficulty, 
 but eventually during the game you can choose between: Easy, Normal, Hard, and Ultimate. Not only 
 does the difficulty of defeating enemies change if you change the difficulty, but also does the 
 pins they can drop (or other items they may hold) , it also changes the amount of PP (what your 
 pins use to level up and eventually evolve) and EXP they drop/give after defeating them. Different 
 enemies may appear with the different settings you use on the difficulty. 
  
  What also changes in their drop rate is if you lower your level (after leveling up, in the main 
 screen you can lower your level using a slide [not permanent, you can change it to the top level 
 you've reached and down to level 1 anytime during the main screen] ) . The rarity and chances of 
 enemies (Sound) dropping their pins can be increased using this feature. 
  
  ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
  7. Character Customization: The game includes a nice character customization in which you can 
 dress your characters (Neku and his partner) with different kinds of clothing (up to four DIFFERENT 
 items can be put on the characters, they can't have to of the same type of clothing, such as two 
 shirts, and such) . Not only do these clothing, accessories, and such increase their attack, defense, 
 hp, etc, they also may affect other features in the battle system (for example, if Neku wears a 
 certain hat, his EXP gain will be increased a little, and such other advantages in clothing) .
 
  
  Now another feature that comes with the clothing and customization of the characters is the Bravery 
 points, characters need a certain amount of bravery points to equip some clothing. Bravery points, 
 hp, attack, defense, and such can be increased by feeding the characters different sorts of food 
 (which can be purchased in different stores, like the clothing itself) . Now the characters can 
 only consume a certain amount of food each day (literally a day of gameplay on the DS) , this means 
 you can't feed them an infinite amount of food each day, you have to be patient. 
  
  The character customization is very entertaining and there are different sorts of clothing and 
 accessory lines to choose from to customize the characters abilities and attributes. Its a nice 
 feature and style that is totally new and very intriguing to play with, since there are so many 
 different shirts, hats, and other sorts of items, gamers who want to get everything will be entertained 
 for quite a while.
  -----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
  
  8. Conclusion: "The World Ends With You" is an amazing game that changes the entire way we see 
 gaming in the DS, it features incredible elements in an RPG and tactical game that is both fun 
 and nice to play with and a challenging gameplay to be entertained with (setting the difficulty 
 is up to one's choice of Easy, Normal, Hard, or Ultimate) . It's an incredible game that is revolutionary 
 for games on the DS and will hopefully inspire new games to follow its style. 
  
  Rating: 9.5-10
  Comments: Incredible, Amazing, Favorite, and a Must-Have for RPG fans. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Lunar52
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jun 20, 2008 12:42 am PT
Review:  In "The World Ends With You" you play as Neku Sakuraba, your typical angsty teenager, who has all 
 of a sudden woken up in the middle of the busy streets of Shibuya (which is an actual district 
 in Japan) . He then realizes that he has died and that he is some sort of twisted game called the 
 Reapers game. He finds out that he has 7 days to complete it or else you will have to repeat it.
 
  
  I'm going to stop there in terms of story but here is the breakdown.
  
  Graphics: 9.5
  
  For a DS game the graphics in TWEWY are stunning, the character models are 
 anime inspired and they look great. Some of the cut scenes are real eye candy. Overall the game 
 has wonderful graphics.
  
  Game Play: 10
  
  The streets of Japan are at your hands. You run around Japan accomplishing the Reapers objectives 
 and shop for clothes to equip like armor. The battle system is incredibly unique and fun. At first 
 It's very hectic but you will get used to it.
  
  Sound: 9.5
  
  The sound effects are great. Crisp and clear.
  
  Music: 10
  
  All I can say is that I want 
 them to make a soundtrack of this game.
  
  Story: 10
  
  The story in this game is very engrossing. You will become attached to the characters. The story 
 is just great.
  
  Overall score: 9.8
  
  This is one of the best RPGs I've ever played. Go out and buy it.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: jakx102
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 19, 2008 12:16 pm PT
Review:  This is the bestest game i have ever played on my Nintendo DS since Megaman ZX Advent. This game 
 is actually very Funny i love the storyline and the charactars are awesome and amazing!!!!!!!!!!!!!!! 
 I jusyt got this game about 18hrs ago from Gamestop who was sold out of it for 2monthsand i found 
 the last copy. the graphics are alot like KHCoM for GBA but more bright and exciting (its probably 
 my DS lites brightness LOL) The Sprites are awesome and vibrant with animation im already on the 
 fourth day with Shiki i love how u can link battles to make it like a tournament. i thought this 
 games controls gameplay was gonna be hard but after the third day i got the hang of controlling 
 Shiki i think i have the ILLEST deck ever (aka Coolest Deck Ever) the pins in my deck are Thunderbolt, 
 Force Rounds, Shock Wave, and Cure Drink. you should sooooooooooooooooooo buy this game if you want 
 your ds to go to the max that it was created to do LOLOLOLOLOL BTW i have a psp but since this 
 is so fun i havent played itfor like 5 days cuz i was on the internet lookin for reviews and watchin 
 videos on Youtube i havent played it 20-40hrs yet but im plannin to get at least 90% of everything 
 like in my KHCoM game so it should take me at least 100hrs Ouch thats like playin my DS for four 
 days straight nonstop 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dreamdust
Rating: 9
Date: Jun 18, 2008 4:11 pm PT
Review:  The World Ends With You is a nicely done DS game with great visuals and gameplay. Like any game, 
 however, it does have its flaws. First, the battle may throw you off for a little bit. It seems 
 overwhelming to control two characters on two screens simultaneously. Luckily, you really don't 
 have to, or are expected to, play them simultaneously. Truth is you want to alternate between the 
 two. Run through a combo with one, then run through a combo with the other. This builds up a power 
 "puck" that the players pass back and forth at the end of each combo. The result is increased attack 
 power the longer you can keep the ball rolling. The battle is tough to get down at first and may 
 be just a tad frustrating but once you get it figured out it becomes much more enjoyable than any 
 other RPG I have played to date. This is due, in part, to the speed and level of intensity.
  
  Another issue, and the biggest one I am still dealing with, is the clothing. This game offers 
 an overabundance of clothing to buy. The concept behind this is that different regions of the city 
 have different trends. Wear something unfashionable and your attack or defense can take a hit. 
 Don't get it? Neither do I. The clothing does nothing more than alter your character's attributes 
 like attack and defense ratings. Characters, unfortunately, do not change in appearance. This seems 
 to contradict the idea of wearing inappropriate fashions in different areas. Particularly when 
 you are supposedly invisible to most of the inhabitants (you'll understand what I mean when you 
 get into the game a little bit) . Basically, normal clothing takes the place of armor from your 
 standard RPGs. 
  
  The game can be a bit linear but considering the way the storyline is developed this makes logical 
 sense. It's refreshing to see SquareEnix do something new and actually back it up with a worthy 
 investment. Here's hoping for more original titles from SquareEnix and many others. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: barkera0
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 17, 2008 10:19 pm PT
Review:  ~ The World Ends With You (RPG - DS) ~
  ~ Reviewed by barkera0 ~
  
  ~~ Introduction ~~
  If you're like me and get excited anytime you hear Square Enix has developed a new game, then you've 
 probably heard of this one already. What you may not have heard is how awesome this game is. Titled 
 'The World Ends With You' this game sees you traversing around an area of Japan called 'Shibuya' 
 and doing your best to survive the brutal Reapers' Game. With a brilliant storyline, excellent 
 graphics, an original sound track and perfect game play make sure you check this game out!
  
  ~~ Story ~~
  The World Ends With You is centered around a real area of Japan called 'Shibuya' 
 and the story focuses on a 15 year old boy named Neku. I don't want to give too much away of the 
 story, but it turns out that Neku is in fact dead. He has no memory of how it happened though and 
 before he can try and puzzle things out, he is attacked by strange creatures called 'Noise'. Luckily, 
 a young girl by the name of Shiki comes to his rescue and helps him fight off the noise. It turns 
 out these two are part of "The Reapers' Game": a game where a person who has died can fight for 
 the right to be given a second chance at life. However all players must pay an entry fee to enter 
 the game (their most precious possession) and will not have it returned even if they come back 
 to life. 
  
  As you might have guessed, things don't go as planned and Neku finds himself in the game longer 
 than expected and the plot takes a bit of a sinister turn. You'll meet up with a few different 
 partners, all fantastic characters, and meet lots of great characters as you traverse around Shibuya 
 completing the missions of the Reapers' game. Will you will be able to beat the Reapers' at their 
 own game? Or will you be erased?
  
  ~~Gameplay : 10/10 ~~
  The game is divided up into different weeks and each day you will have a mission issued to you 
 by the Reapers' that you and your partner must complete. If you fail to, you will be erased. The 
 game is controlled almost entirely by touch screen and it works perfectly. Everything is very easy 
 to use and work and it's nice to see a DS game using the screen more than just as a tech demo. 
 
  
  When outside of battle, the bottom screen is primarily used to walk around and interact with characters 
 by dragging the stylus to move. Apart from bosses, battles are entirely optional as the only way 
 to engage an enemy is by 'scanning' an area first. By tapping the pin icon on your screen you can 
 scan the area you are in for any Noise. You can then tap the Noise to start fighting it. Of course, 
 battling is a lot of fun and you'll need to be fighting if you want to be able to level up and 
 progress through the game.
  
  In battle you, as Neku, fight on the bottom screen using 'pins' of which there are over 300 and 
 they all have different powers activated by touch screen controls! Although at times it can feel 
 like some pins are just recycled versions of others. Each pin falls under a different brand name, 
 and depending on the current trends, may get a power boost in battle. You can have up to 4 equipped 
 at a time (though this number can be increased up to 6) and they're displayed at the top of the 
 bottom screen. The battles are all in real time, so you can also drag Neku around to use of the 
 Stylus to dodge enemy attacks. 
  
  On the top screen during a battle your partner fights their own individual battle even though you 
 are attacking the same enemies. You can set your partner to Automatic, which is good seen that 
 fighting on two screens can be quite difficult to get used to to begin with. Each partner you fight 
 with has their own unique style and it can make for some very interesting fights.
  
  Outside of battle you'll most be moving around Shibuya to complete your mission for the day. However, 
 along the way you'll be wanting to buy better items in the many shops, collect new pins to use 
 and find a number of secret items and side quests.
  
  ~~ Graphics: 10/10 ~~
  These are some of the best graphics you're going to see on a DS system. Character models all look 
 very nice, although they can be a little pixelated at larger sizes. The environment around you 
 is brilliant and of a very high quality. Having driving cars go past you on the road of some areas 
 is also a nice touch of realism.
  
  All dialogue sequences of the game take place on the top screen and involve anime-styled drawings 
 of the characters. Some cut-scenes also feature animations with the characters and these are of 
 a very high quality. The style of art really gives the game its own unique charm.
  
  The Noise looks very impressive as well and even though it might have been nice to see a wider 
 variety of enemies rather than some in just different colours, there are still enough different 
 enemies that this isn't much of a problem and won't be something that will bother you as you play.
 
  
  ~~ Sound: 10/10 ~~
  Featuring an original sound track by Takeharu Ishimoto and features some music in English and some 
 in Japanese. The background music is entirely these hip-hop and techno themed songs and even if 
 you're not a fan of those music genre's (I know I'm not) you'll still find the music adds to the 
 atmosphere and are enjoyable to listen to. It's very hard to play this game without the volume 
 up!
  
  There is very little voice acting, but when it does appear in a couple of major cut-scenes it's 
 done very well. It's nice to see some English voice acting that doesn't sound fake or stupid. The 
 emotions of the situation are conveyed well and the voices sound very natural.
  
  Sound effects are fantastic as well and attacks in battles are particularly good. They also have 
 characters make comments as battles progress and when you feed them food that they like. One of 
 the best is from Beat when you feed him something he likes: "It's like a party in my mouth!"
  
  ~~ Value: 10/10 ~~
  The game will take around 30 hours to complete if you do a bit of exploring, 
 but on top of that there's a lot of side stuff to do. This includes getting your item, pin and 
 noise collection up to 100% as well as an extra chapter that becomes available after the game is 
 completed and a mini-game called 'Tin Pin Slammer'. 
  
  The extra chapter has no bearing on the story, but it's very, very funny and great to play through. 
 After the game is completed, you'll have access to the Secret Reports. There is one of these for 
 each day of the game and can only be accessed after completing certain requirements on that day. 
 This will require an almost complete second of the play through to get them all. However they reveal 
 some very interesting information and are very worthwhile chasing after.
  
  It will take at least another 10-15 hours to collect all of that (depending how much you got on 
 your first play through) , so you won't be running out of stuff to do anytime soon!
  
  ~~ Finishing Points ~~
  This is one of the most original and interesting games I have played 
 in quite some time and it was non-stop fun and addiction from beginning to end. If you own a DS, 
 I don't care whether you normally like RPGs or not, go out and buy this game! I guarantee you'll 
 love it! Just check out the other player reviews and you'll see i'm not alone!
  
  Total - 10/10 : Perfect 
::::::

::::::
UserName: HellsAngel2c
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jun 17, 2008 4:57 pm PT
Review:  For me, DS games have generally been a let down. Out of quite a sizable collection, the Legend 
 of Zelda and Trauma Centre have been the only two to keep my attention.
  
  That isuntil I got The World Ends With You.
  
  This is undoubtedly one of the best DS games 
 around and really showcases the 2D capabilities of the DS. Between stylishly designed anime cut 
 scenes you'll find yourself running and dashing and fighting in a lively Shibuya with outstanding 
 smoothness and detail.
  
  The story is nothing short of bizarre. Neku, our angsty, spiky haired, Japanese teen hero finds 
 himself in Shibuya participating in 'The Game' governed by 'Reapers' and filled with enemies referred 
 to as 'Noise'. Your mission is to win. Really, only Square Enix could come up with such a strange 
 story accompanied by crazy characters with catchphrases out of this zetta world! 
  
  But that's the whole charm really. Upon opening the game I must admit I was in despair at it's 
 incredible emo-ness. Even the title seems depressing but as the story unfolded, I realised that 
 the whole thing was just a spoof of everything about the emo culture; when you can dress the lead 
 in a frilly dress, you know you're not dealing with Cloude Strife. 
  
  The strangeness of the game nicely leads me to the game play. Now, this made my head explode for 
 a few hours. The duel-screen fighting system is hard, but once mastered it is well worth the work. 
 Neku and his partner work together to defeat enemies existing in both screens but in different 
 plains (Don't lose me here!) which means both characters must be active at the same time as to 
 not be hurt. As your partner combos up, you can unlock a mega attack where the two work together 
 to bring down the Noise. It's hard!! Luckily you can have your partner an auto play- its risky 
 and they may die, but it helps ease you into this complex system. 
  
  The pin system is the real star though. These pins possess 'Psych' which are powers Neku can use. 
 One pin can make Neku use telekinesis, whilst another can create a huge wall of fire. Levelling 
 up these pins takes time, but very addictive. You can also customize your 'deck' to suit your style- 
 if you prefer ranged weapons you can certainly put many pins of that type in your deck to use. 
 The disadvantage of this system is, however, that the DS has trouble in distinguishing one scribble 
 from the other, ruining your plans for attack. 
  
  Really, this game is a JRPG and will not appeal to those who dislike JRPG's. If however, you either 
 don't mind/like/love this genre and are familiar with the works of Square Enix, then this game 
 is certainly game worth trying out!
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: sparkehj
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jun 16, 2008 6:53 am PT
Review:  Trends, they make the world go round, they can make a nobody become somebody, but in the world 
 ends with you fashion makes you stronger.
  
  Set in Japans popular shopping district, Shibuya, where clothes and gadgets make the world go round, 
 Neku your ordinary 'loner' wakes up in the middle of a crossroads, with no memory. The from some 
 rift in the sky some frogs with freaky legs jump out. You run away to meet up with a fashion conscious 
 girl and her cat doll. Although the story sounds very linear, 'boy seeks his memory' there are 
 many plot twists that make you go "Ahhhh, so that's why he did that!"
  
  You can navigate the world using both the stylus or D-pad but when you enter a battle you need 
 to use both of them at the same time, the stylus Controlling Neku and his funky pins of many moves 
 and the D-pad (Right handed) or ABXY (Left handed) this is a little daunting having to control 
 two characters at once, but you can have the computer take over the top screen after a certain 
 amount of time, which is always helpful to get you started. Apart from a few problems with the 
 stylus actions, such as not being able to tell the difference between a line and a circle occasionally, 
 the battles are still fresh and with many customizations thanks to the pin slots, each pin slot 
 holds a pin imbued with a skill that can be used in battle.
  
  The soundtrack is very modern and apart from some regional changes still retains it J-pop like 
 style. The sound effects and voice- overs are small but of good quality. The overall soundtrack 
 is fresh, but sometimes repetitive.
  
  The visuals are the clear, and even though they're 2D sprites they interact on a very good replica 
 of the Shibuya district with the notable landmarks and shops. The backdrops and foregrounds give 
 a great sense of depth and space along with different lighting for the specified areas, they have 
 certainly gone all out to make this a memorable game.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: pwnd11434
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jun 14, 2008 4:06 pm PT
Review:  With an amazing story-line, you WILL grow attached to Neku (the Hero) and his friends Joshua, Shiki, 
 Beat, Ryhme, and Mr. H. It combines everything needed in an RPG.
  1. Good story.
  2. Characters you can (and can't) stand.
  3. A notorious villian.
  4. So many surprises that 
 you won't up and down, and will literally make you keep playing to find out what's going on.
  
  This game is almost perfect to me. The pins (psches as called in the game) give you the ability 
 to fight as a true hero. The Noise (the henchmen of this game to the Reapers. Kind of like the 
 Nobodies to Organization XIII from KH) are perfect in their role as the not-too-hard-but-not-too-easy 
 evil-doers. It's EXTREMELY satisfying when you kill that Noise that made you restart the battle 
 last time. You can't help but smile and say "Bye-bye" to that dragon/frog/wolf/fox noise.
  
  But, the one thing that was tough for me was the dual screen fights. Friends have told me that 
 using both are easy, but I just might be uncordinated or something because I couldn't use both 
 for my life (literally) . It didn't matter that much because you can set your partner to automatically 
 take over him/herself and fight. 
  
  Usually, when the computer takes over a character, you can expect to fight the battle yourself. 
 But in TWEWY the computer is smart and WILL block/dodge when necessary. Some of the battles I was 
 in were all the computer's doing. So, fear not if you don't get a hang of it.
  
  -pwnd 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SSBBisawesome
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jun 12, 2008 11:21 pm PT
Review:  The World Ends With You is not your average rpg experience, and that's a good thing. I honestly 
 didn't like it at first, but it grew on me. The gameplay is fun enough not to get repetitive, and 
 completely brings out all of the stylus's functions. It takes a little getting used to though, 
 It can become quite hard at times, because this game requires you to control both Neku, your main 
 character who fights on the bottom screen, and his partner (either Shiki, Joshua, or Beat) on the 
 top screen. If you want to avoid this though, there is an option that allows the character on the 
 top screen to fight automatically, so you dont have to control them at all. You use your stylus 
 to activate these things called "pins" to bring out specific attacks. Such as, drawing circles 
 to create fire , etc. There are a ton of pins to collect, so gameplay wont be the same thing over 
 and over again. The story is amazingly good, and the characters are great as well. 
  The graphics, although a little retro, are still great. 
  
  closing comment : Buy this game! 
 This is an rpg you wont soon forget. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: yoshi_64
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 9, 2008 10:13 pm PT
Review:  This generation, there have been few noteworthy JRPG titles to buy and even few at that ... that 
 have been innovative and even able to bring what many expect from the genre. 
  
  Whether it's the innovative or creative battle design, Japanese like style and story, men with 
 big swords and long hair and all the rest, we haven't seen any title that really stands out this 
 generation. Not to say they are bad, but few have really pulled off something so unique, so fresh, 
 and something that is daring to change how we usually see JRPGs just a bit to keep the experience 
 one hell of a ride from start to finish. 
  
  That's where The World Ends with You comes in. Now, this title is perhaps one of the freshest JRPGs 
 and one of the FEW to even make me go "Wow" by more than just some lavishly made cutscenes or spells. 
 
  
  No, what gets me going is how amazing TWEWY just uses the system's capabilities and surpasses my 
 expecations (while also raising them) of how the DS can be used for everything from leveling up 
 pins (more on that later) by the internal clock and raising stats, to the plethora of moves and 
 attacks one can initiate with the touch screen and mic. Also, it wouldn't be a Square-Enix game 
 without the lavishly made visual and audio effects, now would it?
  
  Well let us first start about what exactly TWEWY is. TWEWY is a JRPG game that has a unique and 
 interesting dual screened real time combat system. Firstly, don't be scared by the idea, but you 
 control two characters on separate screens at once during battle to vanquish your foes. Yet, don't 
 fret if you aren't used to it in the beginning, because the computer will help you out and play 
 your top screen character if you desire, but if you really want to experience what TWEWY is all 
 about, let alone master the pretty deep battle system, you'll find yourself turning off the assistance 
 pretty soon perhaps. 
  
  Now, a brief explanation, for the battles. You control Neku, a young angsty (I know it sounds cliche, 
 but hold on...) teenager who will battle alongside various partners in "The Reaper's Game." The 
 battling on the top screen is the same for all, except obtaining fusion stars, which power up your 
 Fusion Attacks for some pretty spectacular ultimate attacks are different for each character. Neku 
 himself will play on the bottom screen, where you control him through various stylus inputs and 
 even the Mic depending on what pins you have equipped.
  
  To move Neku, simply drag him to a point and he'll follow. To attack, you can do things from swiping 
 an enemy for physical slashing strikes, to scribbling on the screen to cause an earthquake, to 
 shouting in the mic to start a shockwave, to slashing downwards on your opponents for a downward 
 stab in the air, or slashing up to toss the opponent in the air with a strike attack... and so 
 much more. Seriously, there's so many pins, and methods to playing this game, you'll probably find 
 yourself tinkering around with sets just to find a combination of pins that works to your liking 
 and the thing is, it's just a ton of fun to explore that I've found myself loving going into battles. 
 Which, by the way, battles are not random (thank you) instead you need to "scan" the field to find 
 "noise" (the enemies) then you can begin tapping the noise you wish to bring into battle and begin 
 from there. 
  
  Lastly, one of the best points about this game is... it's as challenging as YOU want it to be. 
 That's right, this game lets you play to your style as well, with it letting you choose your difficulty 
 (how tough enemies will be) and also how high a level you want to be (affects your HP but not ATK/DEF 
 stats) . The lower your level, the higher the drop rate of items will be, and the higher the difficulty, 
 the BETTER the items you will find. It certainly is a great aspect for those who are completionist 
 and like to even hog up items... but if you are one who just wants to play the game normally, you 
 can to and not have to worry much. You can make a boss battle hard or easy if you want, you can 
 make the game something to moan and loathe about or you can make it a cake walk as well. Either 
 way, you can play how you want and just enjoy it at your pace. It's so wonderful. 
  
  Graphics: 
  
  Well, if it's from SE you should expect some high quality visual effects and 
 top notch production values, right? Well thankfully SE doesn't disappoint and TWEWY has a very 
 unique visual style. Developed by the KH team, this game comes off with a very modern, stylized 
 urban art style that is very fitting to the atmosphere around it. Still retaining the Japanese 
 flair of some androgynous looking men, some spiky haired kids and the likes, the game still looks 
 unique at least because nothing is too overly done and typical. That's not to say you won't see 
 a pink haired female, busty eye-glass wearing babe, and the ever aloof shade totting mastermind. 
 
  
  Yet.. still, the game looks great little tidbits like that aside. The cutscenes are nicely made 
 and told in a very pop out Manga like story fashion that looks great on the DS. Also, the included 
 voice work helps keep things rolling. Aside from that, the game's graphics themselves look great. 
 Fluid animation that's responsive to your commands, very nicely detailed sprites and buildings, 
 and some great use of subtle 3D touches and multi planed backgrounds/foregrounds that bring the 
 world to life. 
  
  Sound:
  
  Well... this is by far the most impressive part for me about the game. SE really went all out here 
 in the department and it shows.
  
  From the plentiful and varied and not to mention well done voice samples and even speech during 
 some cutscenes, to the inclusion of voice sampled music that's strewn about through the game. Everything 
 from hip-hop to J-Pop, Punk and Rock, Electronica and Rap, this game has a wide assortment of musical 
 styles and flavors that had this reviewer enjoying each song, finding them quite enjoyable, and 
 added greatly to the atmosphere of the game making the world feel alive. 
  
  This is on game I HIGHLY recommend using headphones for, because the audio quality is very well 
 done. The variety of music and lyrics and detail to the instruments going on are well done, then 
 there's just the overall atmosphere. Hearing the ever busy and noisy streets of Shibuya, to the 
 many different smaller details, SE just astounds me at how they managed to cram this much sound 
 into a DS card.
  
  Story: 
  
  Well what's a JRPG without a story? I do not wish to spoil much, but the premise is definitely 
 engaging. You play as Neku Sakuraba, a young boy who has somehow ended up in a game called "The 
 Reapers Game." In this game, he must survive 7 days with his partner in order to regain a second 
 chance at life, or face erasure forever. (Death.) Yet, it's not as plain as it sounds obviously, 
 but let's just say... the twists and turns at this game may leave you blind sided a bit, and some 
 will have you maybe even shedding a tear for some of the characters. Lastly, it's great to see 
 a game where the main character ACTUALLY GROWS in the story. While he starts out angsty and very 
 "emo" like, Neku quickly evolves and it's great to see him and his partners too just grow in general. 
 Learning life lessons and valuing them, then actually seeing their character change and how they 
 no longer act in some of the selfish and stupid ways they were before. 
  
  Overall: 
  
  Frankly, it doesn't get much better than this. I can go on and on about the battle system feeling 
 so fresh, and maybe even feel like spoiling the story for you (but I won't :P ) yet... in all honesty 
 and my opinion. It just doesn't get any better than this...
  
  There has been few noteworthy releases, and even while there are some great JRPGs out there, none 
 have really exceeded my expectations like TWEWY and frankly... I was not even hyping TWEWY at all, 
 this game completely came out from left field from me and I bought on a whim yet... I'm glad to 
 report it was one of the best decision I made, because without a doubt... TWEWY is just one of 
 the best JRPGs to be released this generation, even taking into account of the current JRPGs on 
 the next-gen consoles.
  
  Now what are you waiting for? Go buy TWEWY right now!!
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Gryphonsflight
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jun 9, 2008 3:28 pm PT
Review:  My first thoughts on this game fell into the, what the crap is going on area. Its an RPG, its an 
 action game, its a collection/evolution game... so where exactly does it fall... Honestly, it falls 
 in the realm of awesome. 
  
  The voice acting, when present, is astounding and for a DS game... the music is plentiful and more 
 robust than any other game I have played on the system to date. 
  
  Game play is hectic, well I guess that is an understatement. Game play is like a six year old on 
 sugar and crack and some other super drug that ups the response time. You have a lot to pay attention 
 to at one time, but I know you are asking, then why was it a good game? It works. Plain and simple, 
 this style works for the game and is explained in a timely fashion. It's biggest drawback is when 
 different actions are mis-registered and you use the wrong move. 
  
  Story is what you would expect and more. I won't ruin it, but there are so many twists and turns... 
 you wont know what hit you.
  
  Its a great game, with replay value and modifiable difficulty, what isn't there to like? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: The_Inferno_Man
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jun 9, 2008 12:50 pm PT
Review:  The game is a great hand held game that is great to pick up and play when you have some free time. 
 The combat system is really hard to get use to but once you do it's really fun and I found myself 
 finding battles to find because the combat system is that fun. The story is compelling and great 
 from start to finish. The toch screen controls work like Phantom hour glass. The game has multiplayer 
 but it's not its best feature. The game doesn't really have armor and shields it has shirts and 
 cool hats as your gear. You can buy good and use it to increace you stats but you have to wait 
 for it to digest. The only bad thing I would say about this game would be that the game is rather 
 short but I like long games! This game is really a good game for any gamer so go out and buy it 
 NOW!! (If you haven't already) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: game_gal
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jun 8, 2008 2:15 am PT
Review:  This game is definitely worth waiting for and definitely worth your money.
  
  The characters...
  ... are adorable and have their own story tell. But I'd have to say that the 
 main character is not exactly likeable... at least not at the start. But like most main characters, 
 he eventually improves. 
  
  The gameplay...
  ... is awesome! It has loads of fresh ideas and with a new battle system and cool new concepts, 
 the gameplay totally rocks! It's something that you can play all over again and again and still 
 not get completely bored with it.
  
  The story...
  ... is great with plot twists and turns. Just when you think you've got it figured out, the game 
 will surprise you. 
  
  The battle system...
  ... is very unique and cool but it gets annoying as you can mix up commands....
  
  The difficulty...
 
  .... is hard to say as you can manipulate the difficulty level throughout the game along with your 
 current level.
  
  Overall: It's really just amazing. RPG fans really have to try this one. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: WarPrime
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jun 6, 2008 2:28 pm PT
Review:  You start the game as a very negative and stuck up kid, (apparently a staple of the Square Enix 
 characters) . You are confused and lost, and you discover over the first hour of game play that 
 you have lost your memory. Thankfully, your character does become less annoying and warms up to 
 other people during the course of the game.
  
  To enter combat you have to "Scan" for the enemy creates using a icon in the lower right of the 
 touch screen, when you do this the world will turn blue and scary red "Noise" icons will be displayed 
 floating about the screen. Clicking on one (or more, up to a max of 4 for chain bonus) will cause 
 the characters to enter combat. Later in the game there will be black noise that actively hunt 
 you when you scan, and there will be very tough and rare "Blue" noise that give bonus rewards. 
 There is also "green" noise, but they are non-combat optional noise that only gives bonus rewards 
 if the player seeks them out.
  
  Combat is hard to describe, on the touch screen you control your main character with the stylus, 
 scratching, dragging, tapping, drawing circles, and yelling into the mic to activate your characters 
 skills (this is depending on what skills you have equipped, up to a max of 6 skills) . This is a 
 lot of fun, and picking your skills can be very rewarding by finding combinations that work really 
 well together. Scoring a combination will cause a "light puck" to bounce between you and your partner.
 
  
  On the top screen your partner is fighting the same monsters, but they are controlled using the 
 D-Pad, picking different directions to perform actions that lead to special icons. Each partner 
 has different ways of creating combo chains, but the end result is always a skill button that you 
 can press on the bottom screen that is basically a super bomb that nukes all the enemies.
  
  There are a dozen different stores with tons of items that you can equip your characters with. 
 Each store is a different "Brand Name" with its own specialty of items types. Items all have a 
 special ability that must be unlocked, and the way to do this seems to be making the shop keepers 
 happy by buying things from them. You will get a message saying that the clerk likes you and then 
 some items will have their special ability displayed when you cursor over it in the store.
  
  The art style is very cartoony, but I think it looks fantastic. Very cool character designs, 
 great skill effects, and some very neat monsters to fight make for a visually enjoyable experience.
 
  
  The sound design is good, it didn't bother me, but some of your partners have some dialog that 
 annoyed menot that it was bad acting, just the things they said sometime got on my nerves. Specify 
 Joshua!
  
  The story is strange and disorienting, and while this is odd, it works to make you feel lost and 
 confused, which is the point since you lost your memory. so it works. But don't be surprised if 
 you spend the first few hours of the game saying to yourself "What the "F" is going on?"
  
  One of the coolest features is the ability to change the difficulty of the game before or after 
 any combat. By choosing to sacrifice your health you gain an increased chance to gain drops from 
 monsters. You can also choose a difficulty level for the monsters which further changes the drops 
 of the monsters. Be careful, I didn't die until I started messing around with this game system.
 
  
  Another really cool feature is Experience Gain for not playing. When you have the game turned off 
 your save game will track how much time has passed since you played last, and based on that you 
 will get experience for each day you didn't play (up to a max of 7 days) . This was a great thing 
 when I was annoyed that forgot my DS at home over the weekend, only to come home to find that my 
 character had gained a ton of XP. NICE!
  
  All of this so far is very coolnow here is the rub!
  
  There was an over abundance of poor 
 explanation. There were to many times I would read one of their instructions on how to do something, 
 and not get it enough that I was lost with what to do next. FOR EXAMPLE: I still do not fully understand 
 the "light Puck" that is passed between your character and your partner during combat. I was still 
 able to muddle my way through it, but I still didn't really get it, and I feel that if I was able 
 to understand it better I might have had more fun.
  
  The "Name Brand" system that is found on items and skills is virtually useless. Each section of 
 town has its current trend that gets a bonus in combat. The problem is that using a skill of wearing 
 clothes in an area will eventually change to that location making it unimportant. It's a cool idea, 
 but in the end it just serves to over complicate the game design.
  
  The story can get annoying if you forgot to save after a particularly long dialog screen, and then 
 die. There is no real way to get through it fast. You just have to keep hitting the button (or 
 tapping the screen) until you are done, and then save. Unfortunately there are several very tough 
 boss fights that have a ton of dialog immediately before the fight, so I found myself going through 
 the tedious dialog multiple times.
  
  There is a mini-game called "Tin-Pin-Slammer". Maybe I just suck, but I could not win a single 
 game of this apparently pointless distraction. It is so simple to play, but the computer is so 
 good that it is frustratingly difficult. Thankfully, being good at this mini-game is not needed 
 to beat the game!
  
  And possibly the worst part of this game is the world map/travel part. The world map has no apparent 
 correlation to the direction you are moving. Moving off the screen on one part of the city will 
 move you north on the map, while moving south may move you left on the map, all in all it made 
 no sense.. at all.
  
  In the end it is a very enjoyable game with great controls. Character customization is great, with 
 all the skills and items to use it could take a long time to find the best combinations.
  
  Final Score: 8.5
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: painter015k
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 5, 2008 4:59 pm PT
Review:  Square-Enix has done it again. The World Ends with You is one of the best RPGs ever to hit the 
 DS. With a compelling storyline and unique combat system, you will not want to put the game down. 
 The in-game artwork is amazing. The sprites are colorful, well detailed, and are beautifully designed. 
 Every single detail in the game is flawless. Like most Square-Enix RPGs, you expect alot of cutscenes 
 that are full of text, most of which are long. The game's story is compelling, but it can become 
 very confusing at times. The game's characters have their own unique personalities. Combat is also 
 a plus. Neku fights on the bottom screen, relying on the touchscreen to use equipped pins. Neku's 
 partners fight on the top screen, who rely on the D-pad. Don't worry you can use auto-play if the 
 fight gets too hectic. You can focus more on the bottom screen easier that way. It sounds complicated 
 at first, but after you get used to it, it's pretty easy. Fighting small fry Noise can vary in difficulty, 
 some battles can be wicked easy, while other are difficult. Bosses provide a definite challenge. 
 The in-game music is just awesome and fits in perfectly with the battles and the rest of the game. 
 The World Ends with You is set in Shibuya (a district in Tokyo) , which makes the game feel more 
 down to Earth. Once again, Square-Enix has created yet another awesome RPG that will just blow 
 you away. If you like RPGs then this a game should definitely check out! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SaudiFury
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jun 4, 2008 11:14 pm PT
Review:  I can simply say, Fantastic game. Worth every penny. Takes a bit getting used to the setting - 
 if your not into the mallrat scene - but the story really begins to grow on ya.
  
  For anyone who liked a good RPG (Role Playing Game - or story driven games) this is a must-buy. 
 Plus, even better, its something besides the usual fantasy stories. If your a Square-Enix fan than 
 this is right up your ally. 
  
  the fighting system takes a bit getting used to but its alright, its something different and can 
 be a challenge at times. All in all, worth every penny and very fun game.
  
  The game was made to take full advantage of Nintendo DS's power, all the pins you use in fighting 
 the NOISE (baddies) utilize the stylus's. It's virtually impossible to fight without the stylus. 
 Some pins even utlize the microphone to be activated. 
  
  The game even has great replay value, unlocking new pins and whatnot. 
  
  
  -Tip- watch through 
 all the credits! 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: zikimaru88
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 4, 2008 6:56 pm PT
Review:  Okay, Im not even gonna bother putting a bad list because this is the best portable VG I've ever 
 played! Theres just too much good stuff to list. OK i will.
  
  Gameplay: You battle the Noise which are basicly monsters that only players can see. You gather 
 pins on your journey and use them to unleash your attacks. You never randomly go into a battle, 
 you can choose if you want, so thats good. You can even play two player co op with one DS because 
 one can play on the top and one can play at the bottom.
  
  Controls: Very sharp, almost every pin has its own unique way to unleash it, awesome.
  
  Sound: The 
 Sound is great, awesome voice acting and sound effects, really cool. 
  
  Extras: Many extras to unlock, awesome story, just a wonderful game.
  
  Replay Value: Very High, 
 youll be playing this for a while.
  
  Graphics: Anime type graphics make the game look like a comic book. Sweet
  
  Final Comments: Great 
 Game, a must own for any DS player. Great graphics great story, great fun. Everything in this game 
 is great. Best DS game I've ever played. I dont even think words could describe how great this 
 game is. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: RAVEZero
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jun 3, 2008 11:01 pm PT
Review:  Yes, there are about 83 more reviews in front this one, but I've been putting this off for a long 
 time now. TWEWY, sets you in the typical Square Enix role of Neku Sakuraba, a young boy who has 
 been "killed" in order to take part in a certain game on the alternate-reality streets of Shibuya. 
 For those that don't know, Shibuya is the fashion district/capital of Japan. 
  
  Suddenly thrust into aiding a girl by the name of Shiki, your adventure begins. The rules? Complete 
 a week-long series of missions to get back to true reality. 
  
  It's not that simple.
  
  Enemies called Noise are abound at each turn, to the utilization of pins soon comes into play. 
 Each pin allows you to use an attack based on the pin ability to take out Noise. Projectiles, slash 
 attacks... use anything to survive.
  
  I won't get too deep into the gameplay, but it goes like this: You control two characters at the 
 same time to take out Noise. Your partner sits at your top screen, and their actions (attacks and 
 evasives) are utilized by the D-Pad. Neku fights on the bottom screen, and depending upon the Pins 
 equipped, use your stylus for fights. Sounds complicated, yes, but luckily there is an AutoPlay 
 feature for your partner character 'till you can get the hang of it.
  
  One other thing: This is Shibuya. In this version of the city, you must dress to survive. Any more 
 than that could ruin it.
  
  While the game is an effective show of wild artwork and superb gameplay, there is much story to 
 be fleshed out here. If you're like me, and enjoy a good tale, the dialogue-driven cutscenes unfortunately 
 tend to drag on, even with the ability to skip speech bubbles with the stylus. For those that don't 
 give a rat's, just hit your Start button. 
  
  Also, with the amount of different gameplay aspects thrown at you in rapid-fire, many areas may 
 tend to get lost some players. Long and convoluted explanations don't help matters, but luckily 
 there are certain attack tutorials that can be replayed to understand just what you're doing.
 
  
  The World Ends With You does carry its faults, but covers up each one with a bit of a helping hand. 
 And when you couple the gameplay, storyline, and ESPECIALLY the artwork and Music, you have a complete 
 package that even SquareEnix detractors can't go against. In short, it IS worth the $40. Make this 
 your Grad present to yourself. You'll enjoy it in the long run. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Zerone18472
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jun 2, 2008 5:28 pm PT
Review:  This game is an attempt at what the DS can truly bring to the gaming community. It's something 
 very fresh and unique. Nothing of the Sort has never been done like this before. On the graphical 
 side, this game looks phenomenal. It's a very well on 2d world. The artwork is masterful at best. 
 Nothing looks bad at all in this game. The battle system is ONE OF A KIND. It has never been done 
 before and only Square Enix and Jupiter could truly master Dual Screen Combat, Especially on this 
 level. The Controls are very tight and I've never once had a problem with it. They even allow the 
 A. I. To control the Top screen if the action gets to hectic. But nevertheless this game is definitely 
 a showing of what touch control can do. This is what Nintendo was trying to get at when they made 
 the DS. Creativity is what the gaming community needs and this is a great sign of it done with 
 perfection. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: AK_the_Twilight
Rating: 9
Date: Jun 1, 2008 8:52 pm PT
Review:  We've long since been driven to our consoles by the crafty and fantasy-obsessed hand of SquareEnix. 
 We've played tens of Final Fantasy games, combated evil in space with Star Ocean, and beaten the 
 crap out of Heartless in Kingdom Hearts. It's about time that SquareEnix brought something new 
 for a change. Don't get me wrong; these games are great, but it's time. And while console gamers 
 await the next installments of SquareEnix's treasured series, the folks at the treasured Japanese 
 company have had a knack for making addictive handheld RPGs. Next up is easily one of Square's 
 most daring creations, a mix of urban Japanese culture and fast-paced, real-time battles. It's 
 a Wonderful World, now named The World Ends With You, has arrived on North American shores. Is 
 it SquareEnix's next big hit?
  
  The World Ends With You picks up with your typical Shibuya kid named Neku, an introverted teen 
 with a knack for Japanese style, who also tends to hate interacting with people. Neku enters a 
 world known as the UG or "Underground," a "game" of sorts where your typical heroes' valuables 
 are put up for grabs. After an offering of sorts, Neku, along with a select group of other characters, 
 literally put their lives on the line to escape this alternate representation of modern-day Shibuya. 
 Neku himself is also (wait for it) an amnesiac, so his memory of the real world and how he even 
 entered the alternate version is erased. Neku also teams up with different partners, who are told 
 to be the only way to survive in the UG. But from who? Of course, the UG is run by a secret organization 
 (Kingdom Hearts II, anyone?) called Reapers who run the whole deal, along with darker enemies called 
 Noise that must be eliminated. Neku's journey surrounds him learning more about himself while simultaneously 
 discovering more about his past, along with a bunch of other themes that SquareEnix has long since 
 made prerequisites in nearly every other RPG they've produced.
  
  But what's so interesting about The World Ends With You is its rich adaptation of modern Japanese 
 culture. SquareEnix has long tread the world of transcendent kingdoms in peril, giant space colony 
 battles, and any other fantasy clich seen in modern video games to date, but surprisingly, The 
 World Ends With You is based off of real culture in real places from real people. All the RPG trappings 
 survive: your characters still use equipment, gain experience, and partake in the long-used RPG 
 themes and storyline essentials. However, the equipment is simple clothing that any modern teen 
 in Tokyo these days would no doubt be seen wearing. Health-recovery is your average energy drink. 
 It's this integration of newer Japanese culture with the long-used concepts of SquareEnix that 
 makes The World Ends With You worth playing, but fortunately the combat will keep you coming back 
 for more.
  
  While the story borderlines on Matrix-style gibberish and richly adapted real-life culture and 
 style, the combat is anything but poor. Firstly, battles are not random. Neku uses a special collectable 
 pin to scan for enemies. After selecting one or more sets of enemies on screen, Neku and his partner 
 can battle. This does offer better pacing and control; there are chances that you will die in-game, 
 but mostly the game lets you enter battles at your own code. Even more important are pins, the 
 key to battling the Noise. Using different pins, Neku can pull off over-the-top attacks and spells 
 to destroy the noise, a la every other RPG seen before. Pins can also be used to perform out-of-battle 
 abilities, solve puzzles, to detect enemies or even read minds. There's a good amount of versatility 
 in each of the pins' unique aspects and it turns out to be another interesting merge of modern-day 
 Japanese culture and classic SquareEnix fantasy-battle simulation.
  
  Once battles begin, Neku and his partner are thrown into a two-screen battle where you control 
 two different characters simultaneously. Neku appears on the bottom screen and his attacks are 
 driven by stylus motion. Using different pins' abilities, the player is told to tap, scratch, or 
 draw using the stylus or even yell into the microphone to execute specific attacks. On the top 
 screen is Neku's partner Yes, it sounds like a serious hassle and totally confusingand it is at 
 first. Enemies appear on both screens, but upon being eliminated disappear from both. The key is 
 alternating between the screens using an object called the light puck. By alternating attacks between 
 the two characters, a green-lit puck rapidly dashes between the characters. The long the alternating 
 attacks, the more powerful the attacks become. This is still blatantly confusing at first, but 
 fortunately the game lets you customize the difficulty and even choose to only control the bottom 
 screen. However, this isn't recommended as your partner's attacks can be faster and more effective 
 than the CPU character. Upon reaching a particular limit, your partner can serve up a high-power 
 special attack where Neku and his partner attack all enemies on both screens all at once. On the 
 whole, though, the combination between real-time stylus-driven attacks and stylish modern-day appearances 
 make the game feel refreshing and original, something that the RPG genre has long since needed.
 
  
  But the RPG aspects of this generally action-filled DS title are surprisingly strong, mostly because 
 The World Ends With You is greater than the sum of its parts. Neku can equip different pins and 
 level them up with experience, making them stronger and in some cases, evolve into brand new pins. 
 He also has the atypical equipment and gains experience through participating in battles (which 
 due to the non-random battles, is completely optional, though severely recommended) . An interesting 
 twist is that the pins' experience occurs even when you're not playing, swiftly avoiding the pitfall 
 of many major RPG series; the gameplay aspect dubbed "grinding." In many other RPGs, a major part 
 is slowly leveling up by finding enemies and fighting near hundreds of random battles. This is 
 annoying, and The World Ends With You crushes this officially obsolete gameplay mechanic. The catch 
 is that only pins levels up, so the other attributes that Neku and crew must monitor require battles, 
 but since the real-time aspects of the battle system are so fluid and entertaining, this is a minor 
 complaint.
  
  Along the way, Neku can also visit shops and buy new threads, songs, info, or power-ups, while 
 also learning of existing "trends," one of The World Ends With You's other interesting quirks. 
 Clothing and pins that Neku uses can catch on from repeated battles and exploration, as each piece 
 of equipment and arsenal is assigned a specific brand. This is interesting as shop owners will 
 compliment wearing clothes and using pins assigned to big-name brands and may even discount or 
 reveal secrets to their wares. There's also some weird little minigames like Tin Pin, a modestly-distracting 
 game where you use the stylus to move your pins to knock another person's pins out of a ring. It's 
 not particularly fun, but is sometimes required, so make do with what you have equipped. Fortunately, 
 health is restored after every set of battles, difficulty can be set at a player's own pace (sacrificing 
 spoils for more health) , and the ability to save after every battle allows the game to be perfectly 
 tuned to the precise level. The whole package comes with some moderately disjointed ideas, but 
 the different ideas are entertaining, especially the contemplative story and incredibly unique 
 battle system.
  
  The World Ends With You, fortunately, isn't another simple attempt to render 3-D on the Nintendo 
 DS. I say "fortunately," because many of these attempts have been pretty lackluster. The game does, 
 however, have some well animated sprites that look great in battle. The world of Shibuya is rendered 
 incredibly well for a handheld. Battles themselves feel alive and the different attacks look great 
 and animate well. To compliment the great graphics is a diverse soundtrack. The upbeat themes are 
 interesting mixes of techno and hip-hop, and despite the limitations of the DS, sound great. The 
 voice acting is mixed in with some short sound clips of the characters, but add enough personality 
 to battle to be worth listening to for a short while. Although The World Ends With You doesn't 
 push the DS to its limit, it still manages to be good-looking and great-sounding. Presentation-wise, 
 it's comprehensive, enjoyable, and worth turning the volume up.
  
  Pros
  + Battle system is innovative and action-packed
  + Customizable combat, difficulty, and items 
 reshape RPG standards
  + Characters are generally entertaining
  + Richly adapted with Japanese pop culture
  + Story is pretty cool and well-presented
  
  
 Cons
  - Two-screen gameplay is confusing at first
  - Some of the minigames are boring
  - Moderate RPG "grinding"
  
  The World Ends With You is one of the most original RPGs to hit 
 any console, let alone a portable, in years, and if even if you don't possess even a remote interest 
 in the long-winded genre of the RPG, you'll no doubt find the creative differences and innovative 
 gameplay elements pretty cool. While the two-screen gameplay isn't the grandest of innovations 
 in The World Ends With You, the cool use of the touch screen makes battles surprisingly involving, 
 especially considering that the game gives you plenty of control as to the frequency and intensity 
 of the battles. Thankfully, the game also delivers an undeniably unique atmosphere, something the 
 RPG genre in general has been in dire need of. Shibuya and its respective quirks really come alive 
 in The World Ends With You and the cultural concepts like trends and modern equipment really compliment 
 the game's style. Although the combat is challenging, it can be modified and generally has plenty 
 to offer in terms of how you battle. The World Ends With You conquers a great deal of the RPG genre's 
 setbacks, making it innovative in its own right, and considering all this comes in a portable game, 
 it makes it easy to enter a quick battle, save, and close up your DS. It has enough aspects to 
 please RPG veterans, but enough new ideas to be worth a newcomer's attention. Pick it up today.
 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Tensh1n
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 1, 2008 8:09 pm PT
Review:  the game is amazingly well crafted. addictive battles, great character outlines, stunning graphics... 
 yes it has it all. the replay of this game is awesome and no matter how u finish it.. it keeps 
 on going... it never ends... well it does but you get the drift. 
  
  the game controls are alittle awkward... two screens and u have to mulitask, if you dont do the 
 other part of the battle which is to control your partner, your screwed. also your given "Pins" 
 as your offensive and defensive abilities and they differ for each. they are also used for side 
 games, but you will have to look into that. it took me 1 1/2 hours to get the groove of the game. 
 honestly once you pick up the rythem, its quite fun.
  
  the downfall for me probably would be the story outline, very deep and forces the player to actively 
 think in the game. i seriously got lost, but it worked its way in me and i eventually liked it. 
 other than that, everything was put in a package with a ribbon on it. seriously you'll love it, 
 if not its probably not your cup of tea. =] 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Craze96
Rating: 10
Date: May 30, 2008 9:15 pm PT
Review:  This game is a fantastic game that is full of surprises! This game contains a very interesting 
 story that will make you want to READ! Not other games that have boooring story. You will never 
 be able to predict until you finish the game. Unlike the other game like Ninja Gaiden Dragon Sword 
 that only allows you to slash the enemy and that will make you booooring. This game uses some kind 
 of pin that will cast some magic and to release the magic you don't just slash the enemy , there 
 is many different this you need to do to release the magic like slash Neku (the main character 
 on the game) , tap the enemy, slash the enemy, scream to the microphone, touch empty space, make 
 a circle on empty space and many more! This game also allow you to shop in different stores. Each 
 pin can also evolve, unlike the other game that only collect exp to make it evolve, this game have 
 many things to do to make the pin evolve like shutting down the ds for along time, battling point 
 and there is also mingling point. In the other game this surely evolve but in this game pins may 
 evolve or it will not evolve depends on the requirement for each pin. All I can say about this 
 game is FANTASIC! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: brandonthesaint
Rating: 8
Date: May 30, 2008 8:07 pm PT
Review:  I wanted this game since it's from Square Enix and isn't a strict RPG. Well, lets start with the 
 review.
  The game drops you in Tokyo where you slowly learn why you have been incorperated into a bizzare 
 "game". The action in the game is pretty smooth, but6 fast paced because you will be fighting on 
 both the top and bottom DS screens at once. This may sound overwhelling and actually is at first, 
 but you will soon get used to the whole thing and find it quite engaging.
  The sound is very good for a DS game and music plays a role in this mystrious world. The soundtrack 
 contists of Japanese pop music and gives the game a certain feel.
  There are pins that you collect that do different things and give you different powers, but most 
 are pretty much the same in the way they give damage and you feel like ust the visuals were changed.
 
  Another thing I didn't like abou TWEWY is the fact that the RPG elements feel tacked on and don't 
 feel very deep, but trust me it's good enough for DS and will be somewhat engaging to a lot of 
 you.
  Bacically it comes down to this; if you like the whole modern japanese culture this is a great 
 and fun stylized game that you will love. Even if you just like Square Enix games and are down with 
 the new combat system you will love it, but if you are looking for a action-adventure and good 
 graphics and overall awesome game I suggest Ninja Gaiden: Dragon Sword. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: terrorest_009
Rating: 9.5
Date: May 28, 2008 8:44 pm PT
Review:  The World ends with you, a good way for Square Enix to establish a new franchise and it makes best 
 use of the DS's unique abilities.
  
  
  Story:-
  
  You play as in the city of Shibuya as a kid with a bad attitude called Neku, soon enough he is 
 followed by a girl named Shiki. The reason for being followed is to help him through battles which 
 turn out to be some kind of game they are in with monsters called Noises and missions to take on 
 otherwise players would be erased from the game, making it easier in a way and frustrating in another 
 is that you can't interact with others by anyway other than reding their minds using your player's 
 pin ( back to in a minute ) but visible in shops only. Neku is accompanied by other characters 
 through the game and each of them has his/her unique ability and story to tell. The storyline itself 
 is far from linear where lots of twists and surprises await, better to come is how you discover 
 every character's thoughts and see how they change throughout the game, especially Neku who'll 
 become someone else at the end of the game.
  
  
  Design:-
  
  The game is set in Shibuya, a city that is represents modern Japan with everything from shopping 
 moles to Ramen shops to dark graffiti-filled allies. Graffiti is almost everywhere and it's implemented 
 perfectly into the design, you'll find it in any place it should be found in, this theme is also 
 part of enemy design like scars, tattoos and even wings can be graffiti-like. Characters also are 
 in the modern extreme look theme like headphones, bellies sticking out, skateboards, skulls and 
 ... etc ... well that's except for a few who are of the simple design, so if you are a fashion 
 lover the game won't be irritating to look at :P.
  
  
  Presentation:-
  
  The graphics are very good 2D graphics, the colors, models and cut scenes look great, it's all 
 anime style but without the prefix sound effects in manga. Animation is fantastic. There aren't 
 the evey-killing areas unless you hate crowded cities which resemble the game's scene. The only 
 problem here is when the characters move close towards the player they show their pixels but that's 
 not a big part in the game. The cut scenes are different with cool pictures, nice simple animations 
 and good voice acting. Sound in this game is very good and the music can vary from Metal to Japanese 
 Hip-Hop, proceeding through the game will automatically add more to the playlist but you can still 
 purchase more through CDs.
  
  
  Gameplay:-
  
  This is the best part in all games, and this game does more than a good job here. Unlike GTA and 
 cities in other games, Shibuya isn't that large of a world game, still it's big enough for a hand 
 held. The fights don't take place within the crowds, instead you use your pin to reveal the monsters 
 and people's minds, once you tap a monster you and your partner will be teleported to the combat 
 screen ... yes you ave a partner and it's NOT a second player, it's a computer controlled character 
 if you want and controlled by you if you want. 
  
  The combat is as follows: you control Neku on the touch screen using the touch controls and your 
 partner on the upper screen, Neku will use the games weapons which are Pins each of has it's own 
 power like burning the ground, shooting and pulling punches ... etc, each move is executed using 
 all kinds of simple gestures from tapping the enemy to blowing in the mic. As for your partner 
 you control him/her using the D-pad which unlike Neku stays in one spot but moves to throw some 
 punches and do combos, you can set the CPU to take over in either Fast, Normal, Slow or even keep 
 it manual to control the upper character. Using a combination of combos within a set of conditions 
 using your partner will award you with Combo Stars which you can pile up during combat to execute 
 cool dual screen combos which damages all the enemies, you can pile up more stars to power up your 
 combo by reaching level 2 of the combo.
  
  Forgetting your partner, Neku's combat is deep, using his arsenal of pins is deep and can be obtained 
 in lots of ways: they drop off after fights, more powerful ones would drop off bosses, you can 
 purchase them from merchants or trade them for other pins which resemble materials. Due to the 
 huge variety of pins and their activation gestures some can get mixed up but to overcome that, 
 there is a nice simple sub-slot system where you can assign pins to sub slots and use them by pressing 
 the L/R button to switch from the main slots to the sub slots by holding it and using the pins 
 as usual. Not all pins are attacks, there are healing pins and others that would enforce certain 
 brands or boost heals or add chances to debuff enemies ... etc, another thing is that pins are 
 divided into classes like A, B, healing ... etc and you can't have 2 pins of the same class in 
 your slot ready to use so there is no all-burnt-to-fire techs :P. You are limited to 2 slots at 
 the beginning of the game but you unlock up to 4 while proceeding through the game but will require 
 some more replay to get the last 2, also you can save up to 4 tamplets of pins and select them 
 anytime outside a battle to save you the time to switch through your big armory of pins. As you 
 win fights you obtain PP or Pin Points to level up your pins to power them up and sometimes they 
 evolve to gain an extra effect and level up again. You gain more PP by having a higher rank in 
 fights.
  
  Other than the combat is the Tin-Pin Slammer minigame. It's a game where you have to knock you 
 opponent off the field using 4 moves from smacking to protecting, they are assigned to the D-pad 
 a direction each and they are targeted using the touch screen. The pins are moved by a slingshot-like 
 mechanism where you draw a line and how long it is determines how strong the pin is dashed. It 
 has more than that but as a mini game it delivers and depending on your taste it can be so much 
 fun but it is a small part of the game where you have to beat someone on Tin-Pin once or twice 
 to proceed through the main quest.
  
  Character customization goes further than Pins, in Square Enix fashion you can arm yourself and 
 your partner with up to 4 items boosting attributed like strength, HP .. etc and some even have 
 certain abilities like restoring HP or giving an extra combo star upon entering the fight, they 
 can be obtained through purchases or trading them for materials you gather as pins. Those items 
 are not the usual chain/plate mail or those magic cloth stuff and such, but they are fashionable 
 clothes and accessories but the character models won't change by changing cloths which is good 
 in a way and bad in another, bad cuz you don't really feel like you are changing something but 
 good that if you have a combination of weird looking items your character won't look retard or 
 anything and will always fit in the cut scenes. Another way of character customization and power 
 up is the food system, you can feed your characters and to eat again you have to wait for it to 
 digest after a number of battles. Food varies from traditional Japanese Ramen to fast food and 
 even vitamin pills.
  
  Other power ups and feature unlocking ways are stickers which are obtained through merchants by 
 cash or by trading in materials or dropping only from bosses. Stickers have no side effects and 
 they have no equip slots nor an equip limit but on the other hand they are unique and character 
 based where you get stickers for each character with their picture on it and one with some other 
 picture which unlocks other game bonus features.
  
  Your game menu is integrated into your mobile phone where you can do everything from contacting 
 friends ( which I didn't test yet ) and saving your game and managing your pins ... etc, you an 
 unlock more through the game or by obtaining stickers to unlock more features. For instance you 
 can obtain the continue option unless you get a sticker which available very much at the beginning 
 of the game. You can view messages sent by the game master through a message icon at the top left 
 corner of the screen which will keep you from wandering around aimlessly if you come back to the 
 game after some absence. Moreover the game have a Noise ( the game's monsters ) encyclopedia as 
 well giving it a Gotta-Catch-them- all flavor and adds to the replay value. There is a chapter 
 selection option which is unlocked by beating the game and watching the nice ending which then 
 allows you to access a bonus chapter where your characters will be always playing tin-pin with 
 some cool part hidden there ( I won't spoil ) and allows you to unlock a mode where secret reports 
 can be found through the game in any chapter as a side quest. It's not story-related but you can 
 see that directly from the dialogs, but you still can fight noises so it's not just a chapter based 
 on some minigame :P. You can unlock the ability to change the difficulty settings anytime outside 
 battles which comes in handy often if you think that X boss fight is so hard and you want to move 
 on to see the ending ;)
  
  To End this:-
  
  Being my First review I think it was long and not so fun to read :P but returning to the point, 
 The World Ends With You is an ambitious title for the DS which delivers to be one of the best on 
 the console and and very good title compared even to the titles in the market with a story that 
 keeps you on begging to see the end, advanced and rewarding combat system, a deep set of hidden 
 content and other solid gameplay mechanics. If you are the type to buy a portable for a game or 
 2 this one must go in your DS. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: WingsofAdamant
Rating: 6
Date: Jun 3, 2008 2:23 pm PT
Review:  The majority of JRPGs I've played in theory are never really that bad, mostly because it's a pretty 
 simple formula to begin with, but do it in a unique way and not bore the living crap out of you 
 is steadily becoming more of a challenge. So, when the initial impressions came out praising the 
 game for going against the JRPG mold of turn-based, (3-8) elemental/ cosmic gem collecting, big-eyed 
 protagonist gameplay, to say the least I was excited. Granted, the game is unique considering it's 
 a Square-Enix title, but everything people claim it does well, I think it falls short.
  
  The setting of the game is the first thing that stands out. Focusing on the High-fashion district 
 of Shibuya where image makes or breaks the person is an interesting social commentary of the technological 
 juggernaut that is Japan. The only problem is this idea is never fully utilized beyond the materialistic 
 and selfish thoughts of random people. It would've been a lot more interesting if the characters 
 were more vainglorious and selfish in their actions. The game's story is very shallow, leaving 
 very little depth to the characters. The story unfolds in cutscene after cutscene of dialogue, 
 and at times I found myself passing out holding the DS. The entire cast reminds me of the trite, 
 angst-ridden poetry that I see in my old high school's poetry and prose zine. Neko doesn't get 
 along with anybody, seeing that people are only concerned with themselves. Okay, that seems pretty 
 accurate but they never delve into why he feels that way beyond saying he's tired of being hurt 
 by people. It all just seems like a very vague, and ridiculous excuse for a character's apparent 
 misanthropy. There's so much potential to tell a story of how covetous and cold we can be to one 
 another. Then again I guess he has trouble finding the time to develop his thoughts when he's shopping 
 for purple, large-collared sweater vests.
  
  The combat is the only redeeming feature of the game, since it utilizes the touch screen in a fun, 
 and interesting way. The plethora of buttons makes for a fun way of getting the bang for your buck. 
 Each button has different properties and attacks that requires you to do different movements with 
 the stylus to perform their function. Once you are set on a certain number of pins, there's really 
 no reason to abandon them for the entirety of the game. All of the items in the game of different 
 real brands and depending on the clothing you wear, there are different bonuses for wearing them 
 in a certain area. It's compelling in theory, but it's really not too noticeable when utilized.
 
  
  When you purchase clothing from stores your friendship level increases with the clerk, making items 
 available and lowering prices. You pretty much have to buy as much crap as possible if you really 
 want to have the advantage at all times, which gets the whole materialism motif across, but it 
 just becomes monotonous, especially since there's no degree of customization or 'synthesis' of 
 items or equipment. Which is something they did rather well such as in Kingdom hearts and Final 
 fantasy X.
  
  The music is probably the most mind- numbing part of the game. Unless you liked J-Pop before the 
 game you'll just find yourself trying to reason your pernicious thoughts for burning Shibuya's 
 scramble crossing to the ground.
  
  The title, to me, lets on that you have some degree of involvement as to how the story unfolds 
 and concludes, yet endless cutscenes make it unbearable. It got so bad in fact that I found myself 
 hurriedly going from checkpoint to checkpoint in hopes of reaching some point where the game completely 
 flips ass over teacups and becomes less of a detriment to my gaming sensibilities.
  
  The game has been prided on going against the JRPG mold, but to some degree it does but not enough 
 to redeem from being dull and annoying. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Giratinalga
Rating: 9.5
Date: May 27, 2008 8:43 pm PT
Review:  Saying The World Ends With You is an incomprehensibly masterpiece of a game is an understatement. 
 The World Ends With You, created by a joint effort between Square Enix and Jupiter, is possibly 
 the greatest DS Game made to date. Never before on the DS have you seen such an incredibly imaginative, 
 beautiful, deep, and compelling RPG such as this one. So let's divulge intto this game, shall we?
 
  
  (Warning: Possible Spoilers)
  
  
  Story: 8.5/10
  
  TWEWY offers an immersive and deep storyline that will keep you hanging on your seat from start 
 to finish. The environment, based on the city of Shibuya (Japan) looks EXACTLY like the real thing. 
 You'll laugh, you'll cry, and you'll feel just right throughout this story. There is also the fact 
 that the story has this incredible atmosphere around it that just sucks you in. Of course, the 
 bad points of the story is that it has characters that are "love or hate", and of course, Square 
 has added some parts to it that can confuse most gamers, especially the ending, which is poorly 
 told. Dialogue isn't that bad, though there are some characters that can sometimes be annoying.
 
  
  Sound: 10/10
  
  One of (if not) the best parts of TWEWY. All the soundtracks differ from each other and offer a 
 wide variety of choices, so wide that one can have some soundtracks they love, some they hate. 
 What's better is that you can choose to buy these from the numerous stores in Shibuya, and you 
 can even choose to set it as a default song for the pause menu. This is one game that you'll want 
 headphones for.
  
  Gameplay: 9/10
  
  The Gameplay in TWEWY is one of the deepest and hard to master in any RPG I've played before..... and 
 that's not a bad thing at all. Players collect certain "pins" that activate psyches, or some sort 
 of effect, through certain uses with the Touch Screen unique to each Pin. Heck, some even use the 
 DS's Mic to use them. There are, however, some minor problems with the gameplay. First, some pins 
 use the same manner of Touch Screen to use its psyche, therefore one has to arrange their pins, 
 which can get cumbersome since you have to hold certain buttons and use the stylus at the same 
 time. Second, battles can get hectic and increasingly difficult, mainly since you have to pay attention 
 to both screens. The Auto Play for the Top Screen is not reccommended, as the CPU AI is slow to 
 react, can't block, and only does one straightforward combo.
  
  Graphics:8.5/10
  
  Not much to say here........ the graphics are a nice blend of 2D and 3D to make a beautiful looking 
 game. However the art style of the game is a love or hate, and it also re-uses some seen in Kingdom 
 Heart's.
  
  Lasting Appeal:10/10
  
  One of, if not, THE longest game on DS. With a story that can last up to 20 Hours, and ALOT more 
 to do after that, which could land you 40Hours easy. There; s also a cute mini-game that;'s multiplayer 
 to play with your friends, though it's only multi card. either way, it's LONG.
  
  TWEWY is a game that DS owners owe to themselves to buy, and will be remembered by many for years 
 to come as a classic. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ivory_soul
Rating: 8.5
Date: May 27, 2008 7:13 am PT
Review:  The Good: Another amazing Square Enix story, interesting combat design, twists cliche RPG elements, 
 very memorable characters
  
  The Bad: Dual screen combat just doesn't work, can be extremely hard sometimes, a bit long winded 
 for a portable game
  
  I first have to mention that this game was made by the extremely talented Square Enix and Tetsuya 
 Namura was behind this (Final Fantasy VII, Kingdom Hearts) . The World Ends With You is an RPG like 
 no other. They took the cliche elements of RPGs and twisted them around so much it's an enjoyable 
 new welcome. First off, the story is the strong point here. You wake up in Shibuya without your 
 memory and all you have is a Player Pin and you have to stop the Noise and find your way back to 
 the Real Ground. The combat in here is great, but is the most flawed part of the game. You use 
 the stylus to fight with Neku by using Player Pins. Think of these pins as weapons with different 
 attributes. You can tap empty space to send sparks flying, shout in the mic to create a shockwave, 
 slack up on Neku to hit enemies, healing pins, some pins have you drawing circles to send meteors 
 crashing, some pins use telekinesis to send signs, cones, and even cars flying into your enemies. 
 On the top screen you control your partner (there are three throughout the game) by using the D-pad 
 or the face buttons. This is where it's flawed; controlling two screens at a time does not work. 
 You either have to focus on one or the other, but what makes it harder is yo have a combo tree 
 when you hit the button and you have to much up certain cards to make a fusion pin appear for a 
 super powerful attack. This is really difficult and annoying because some fights make you control 
 both. You can, however, have the game do it on it's own, but the AI seems to be flawed since if 
 you don't you'll lose health really fast. With that aside everything else is great. While you run 
 around Shibuya you can visit stores and buy clothes (think armor) to increase attack and defense 
 etc. What's neat about this is each section of Shibuya has a "brand chart" and if you wear those 
 clothes or pins you get attack or stat bonuses. This is also the other flaw in the game, each section 
 is a tiny little area so you're not going to stop through ever section and change your layout out 
 so you just have to use what you like and try to make it popular by fighting the Noise. While we're 
 on that the Noise are the enemies in the game. You can scan the area with your Player Pin and they 
 all show up as red symbols. Tap these (or more than one for a chain battle) to level up and fight 
 them. When each day of the Game starts you have missions you have to complete via your phone and 
 you have to get past walls that the Reapers put up. To get past these you have to meet objectives 
 such as defeat this many Noise, buy me this or that, take this quiz etc. This tosses things around 
 and makes you want to keep playing. You can add to your attributes as well without leveling up 
 by eating food. These food have to be digested through battles and after so many bites you'll get 
 the stat. You can also change your level to drop more pins as well if you need some good ones. 
 Of course, this is a Square Enix game so it is dialog heavy and there are text based cut scenes 
 every five minutes. This adds to the incredible story though so it's all ok. The graphics are all 
 2D but they have the same art style as Kingdom Hearts, it looks like, thanks to Tetsuya Nomura. 
 The sounds is a bunch of swishing and bleeping but the music is pretty nice. There are dozens of 
 tracks you can buy in stores. Overall if you can stomach to odd combat design and you want a great 
 story driven game then go for this. This is too complicated for a portable game, but for some odd 
 reason it still works. I think Square tried to take advantage of the hardware a little too much 
 but this game will sit in our hearts along with Final Fantasy and Kingdom Hearts because I know 
 it has for me. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: WllDan7
Rating: 9.5
Date: May 25, 2008 10:04 pm PT
Review:  This is one the first games I have seen for the ds not made by nintendo that was an instant sell 
 for me. The main character, Neku, can weld psychic powers with the help on the games pins. He has 
 seven days to live and try to survive or have the world end with him. He is not alone in his adventure. 
 He gets the help of partners that help him in the game. When I read the previews for this game 
 saying that you would control two characters at once I sold on the idea for this game. Controlling 
 to people is kind of hard at first but after awhile you should get the hang of it. The game use 
 a unique system that lets you change your level and difficulty at any time to give more or less 
 items you while need. I definitely recommend this game to anyone who wants to try something new 
 and exciting, that no other system has. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Gamakarmica
Rating: 9.5
Date: May 24, 2008 8:30 am PT
Review:  It's rare when a game inadvertenly takes a proven game type and completely re-invents it. The World 
 Ends With You is labeled, discussed and completely been advertised as an RPG with action elements. 
 However, peel off the story elements and you'll find one of the most accessible dungeon hacks since 
 Diablo II.
  
  The game casts you as Neku, an anti-social outcast, and Shiki, a sassy fashionista, in the middle 
 of an alternate Shibuya District Japan. You use both characters in order to defeat "The Noise", 
 creatures created by "The Reapers" who are imprisoning the duo in a strange game.
  
  The battles are played out on both the top and bottom screens. Using both touch screen control 
 and the d-pad, you defeat the enemies using both characters with a great sense of timing and speed. 
 An adjustment period is definitely needed to perform this with accuracy, but it becomes second 
 nature a few hours in.
  
  The battles are what makes the game so unique and different. Your main character, Neku, is controlled 
 by you at all times. Using the stylus, you have to create lines, slashes, circles and other things 
 in order to start attacks. The different attacks you have depend on the type of pins you possess.
 
  
  Pins are collected in two ways: by defeating enemies on different difficulties (which yield either 
 pins with cash or abilities) or by buying them at different types of stores. Also, clothes and 
 food can also be purchased to use as permanent stat boosts (digesting food) or complimenting abliities 
 both characters have.
  
  Clothes also play into a popularity system within the game of different brands. When you boot the 
 game up, the game tells you what labels are hot or not. If you are wearing a pin or clothes that 
 is hot, you get stat bonuses and boosts. If you're wearing an unpopular brand, you will get it 
 knocked off.
  
  The game has incredible depth for any type of action/RPG which will satisfy gamers who love to 
 tweak their avatars with the best equipment and attacks.
  
  What is also really impressive with the game is the aesthetic and style of the game. Never since 
 Jet Grind Radio have I played a game that is oozing with a style that entrenches the game to a 
 level of artistic quality, let alone on a DS mind you.
  
  The graphics are colorful, bright and very well animated and detailed. Cut-scenes and story animatics 
 are eye-popping as well. From a technical point, the sound is what most impresses. The soundtrack 
 to the game (which has to be a mix of J-Pop and Rock) lends a very upbeat vibe to the game and 
 is actually quite pleasant to listen to. A complete surprise, in my opinion, for a game like this 
 to have great sound on a system that is known to have some chintzy sound.
  
  There are a few problems, however. As good as the story is, I actually wish they could put more 
 voice acting into the game to give it more personality. In a game that is full of personality, 
 it just seems odd to see text bubbles.
  
  Sometimes, the stylus control doesn't always recognize a motion or spell it's supposed to try. 
 Also, because of how frantic battles can get, it's hard to get some attacks off (like attacks that 
 are initiated by slashing Neku) .
  
  Lastly, the game is pretty short and somewhat easy when you get used to the control. It takes a 
 chapter to get used to the game, but after that, the game is nearly a cakewalk.
  
  However, the short main story won't stop most gamers from collecting all the pins and pieces of 
 clothing in the game. In fact, the constant adjusting of difficutly to get better drops adds to 
 the "just one more battle" mentality that this game will give you.
  
  Anyone who wants a unique, wholly different type of game to play will fall in love with The World 
 Ends With You. This game is specially made for dungeon hack fans who are looking for a portable 
 fix will adore this game, if they give it a chance. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Kuske_Vorpal
Rating: 10
Date: May 23, 2008 7:26 pm PT
Review:  I LIKE THE GAME! I LIKE THE GAME! I LIKE THE GAME! I LIKE THE GAME! I LIKE THE GAME! I LIKE THE GAME! I 
 LIKE THE GAME! I LIKE THE GAME! I LIKE THE GAME! I LIKE THE GAME! I LIKE THE GAME! I LIKE THE GAME! I 
 LIKE THE GAME! I LIKE THE GAME! I LIKE THE GAME! I LIKE THE GAME! I LIKE THE GAME! I LIKE THE GAME! I 
 LIKE THE GAME! I LIKE THE GAME! I LIKE THE GAME! I LIKE THE GAME! I LIKE THE GAME! I LIKE THE GAME! I 
 LIKE THE GAME! I LIKE THE GAME! I LIKE THE GAME! I LIKE THE GAME! I LIKE THE GAME! I LIKE THE GAME! I 
 LIKE THE GAME! I LIKE THE GAME! I LIKE THE GAME! I LIKE THE GAME! I LIKE THE GAME! I LIKE THE GAME! I 
 LIKE THE GAME! I LIKE THE GAME! I LIKE THE GAME! I LIKE THE GAME! I LIKE THE GAME! I LIKE THE GAME! I 
 LIKE THE GAME! I LIKE THE GAME! I LIKE THE GAME! I LIKE THE GAME! I LIKE THE GAME! I LIKE THE GAME! I 
 LIKE THE GAME! I LIKE THE GAME! I LIKE THE GAME! I LIKE THE GAME! I LIKE THE GAME! I LIKE THE GAME! I 
 LIKE THE GAME! I LIKE THE GAME! I LIKE THE GAME! I LIKE THE GAME! I LIKE THE GAME! I LIKE THE GAME! I 
 LIKE THE GAME! I LIKE THE GAME! I LIKE THE GAME! I LIKE THE GAME! I LIKE THE GAME! I LIKE THE GAME! I 
 LIKE THE GAME! I LIKE THE GAME! I LIKE THE GAME! I LIKE THE GAME! I LIKE THE GAME! I LIKE THE GAME! I 
 LIKE THE GAME! I LIKE THE GAME! I LIKE THE GAME! I LIKE THE GAME! I LIKE THE GAME! I LIKE THE GAME! I 
 LIKE THE GAME! I LIKE THE GAME! I LIKE THE GAME! I LIKE THE GAME! I LIKE THE GAME! I LIKE THE GAME! I 
 LIKE THE GAME! I LIKE THE GAME! I LIKE THE GAME! I LIKE THE GAME! I LIKE THE GAME! I LIKE THE GAME! I 
 LIKE THE GAME! I LIKE THE GAME! I LIKE THE GAME! I LIKE THE GAME! I LIKE THE GAME! I LIKE THE GAME! I 
 LIKE THE GAME! I LIKE THE GAME! I LIKE THE GAME! I LIKE THE GAME! I LIKE THE GAME! I LIKE THE GAME! I 
 LIKE THE GAME! I LIKE THE GAME! I LIKE THE GAME! I LIKE THE GAME! I LIKE THE GAME! I LIKE THE GAME! I 
 LIKE THE GAME! I LIKE THE GAME! I LIKE THE GAME! I LIKE THE GAME! I LIKE THE GAME! I LIKE THE GAME! I 
 LIKE THE GAME! I LIKE THE GAME! I LIKE THE GAME! I LIKE THE GAME! I LIKE THE GAME! I LIKE THE GAME! I 
 LIKE THE GAME! I LIKE THE GAME! I LIKE THE GAME! I LIKE THE GAME! I LIKE THE GAME! I LIKE THE GAME! I 
 LIKE THE GAME! I LIKE THE GAME! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Noisebot
Rating: 10
Date: May 22, 2008 8:50 pm PT
Review:  Full review below, with mild spoilers.
  If you don't want to see them, don't read.
  
  Story: 10/10
  The story of The World Ends With You is one of the most immersing ones on the market. 
 An apathetic teen aged boy named Neku wakes up lying in the middle of the street, the people around 
 him seemingly oblivious to his presence. As the game commences, Neku discovers that he is trapped 
 in "The Reapers Game", a massive gauntlet set up by a shady organization known as the Reapers. 
 Neku must befriend multiple other Players of The Reapers Game, and learn that his horizon is the 
 only boundary.
  
  Graphics: 10/10
  Square has broken away from their regular fantasy landscapes, and has instead placed the hero in 
 a real world location: Shibuya, Japan. Keeping up with the location, the graphics are based off 
 of the world of graffiti, and pop-art and edge abounds. The world around you is highly detailed 
 (for a hand-held game) , and the characters are beautifully animated. 
  
  Sound: 10/10
  TWEWY's soundtrack is filled with a mixture of tunes, from high paced techno beats and J-Pop, to 
 edgy hip-hop sounds and piano. The voice acting in the game is superb, but mainly occurs within 
 battles, where it's often overshadowed by the music and the sounds of the battle.
  
  Gameplay: 10/10
  Now this is where TWEWY really shines. Square has adopted an innovative new 
 battle system that involves you controlling two characters at once, one on the top and one on the 
 bottom. The top screen is occupied by your partner, who is controlled by either the D-Pad or the 
 ABXY buttons, while the bottom screen is the home of the main character Neku, who is controlled 
 by the stylus. In order to execute attacks on the bottom screen, you must activate the ability 
 of your weapons, called Pins, through various motions on the touch screen. Pins require nearly 
 every motion possible for the touch screen, from slashing and sliding to drawing and tapping. These 
 movements activate whichever Pins you have currently selected into your battle deck that require 
 said movements, but only one at a time.
  
  Overall: 10/10 
  Square has outdone themselves, and hopefully found a new franchise to build around. Without a doubt, 
 TWEWY is one of the shining games of the Nintendo DS, and a sequel is a must. We can expect only 
 great things in the future
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: GunBladeHero
Rating: 9.5
Date: May 21, 2008 9:33 pm PT
Review:  The North American version of The World Ends With You is the most recent work of Square-Enix. As 
 you know Square-Enix is famous for most of the greatest RPGs that exists out there. With great 
 stories, characers, weapons, magics and an epic feeling are what made the company's best games. Now 
 what would be your reaction if Square-Enix said that the history of the next game they where going 
 to make was going to happen in modern day Tokyo? With not a single sword or potion to be found 
 in this game? Some people may have a heart attack but rest well my friend; the game is definitely 
 another masterpiece of Square-Enix.
  The World Ends With You puts you in the control of a young man named Neku Sakabara who wake up 
 in the middle of Tokyo remembering nothing but is own name.
  Afterwards he discover that he is part of a bizarre game called "The Reapers game".
  The reapers 
 game consist of several human players that have to complete tasks with the amount of time given 
 by "the Reapers" for seven days, with one task done each day.
  And for some strange reason nobody that isn't in the game can't see Neku or the other players. 
 Neku also discovers that he has a mysterious pin in the palm of his hand that let him read peoples 
 mind, and the existence of monsters known as the "Noises" .The history does a great job of letting 
 you know every detail about the reapers game as you play throughout the game. One thing that stands 
 absolute awesome about this game is its innovative combat system that makes full use of all the 
 DS's capabilities. During the course of the game you will find "Pins" that grants you abilities/magics. While 
 some pins only have a support effect like once in while inflict defense break on a enemy, some 
 pins have attacks in then. These attack pins have several different elements in then and each one 
 must be activated by drawing a certain line or circle with your stylus, like the flame line pin 
 that you must draw a line in a bit slow motion to the place you want to burn and slide the line 
 as you please, other is the shockwave that you must draw a quick line to the target you want to 
 attack and the direction that you draw also determine the motion that Neku will do. But Neku isn't 
 alone in the fight with the noises; he has to make a "pact" with a partner because it's the only 
 way to defeat the noises. The partner fights at the top screen and you must enter commands with 
 the D-pad to make him or her attack. Controlling both characters at once seems pretty tough at 
 first, but you don't need to control your partner if you dont want to. You can leave it in auto 
 mode and the a. i. will take place instead.
  In the end The World ends with you is a great game with a innovative and fun combat system and 
 a lot more to cover. If you are a DS owner and love RPG you will find that this is not just one 
 more ordinary game of the genre, it's really a revolution that definitely is worth your time. Trust 
 me, you won't be disappointed.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: darkspineslayer
Rating: 10
Date: May 21, 2008 7:20 pm PT
Review:  Three things seem to be the core of today's RPGs. turn based battles, learn attacks through leveling 
 up and medieval themes. "The world ends with you" from square enix tosses every last one of 'em 
 out the window and exchanges them for a nice breath of fresh air for gamers that have been at it 
 since the golden age of SNES and before. This is that rare game that truly innovates, not to mention 
 that this is a RPG experience that would not have been possible on anything but the Nintendo DS 
 hardware.
  
  Story: 10/10
  
  Without giving too much away, the story revolves around an antisocial red-haired shibuyan boy named 
 Neku. One day he wakes up in the center of the scramble crossing, without knowing how he got there 
 or got a skull pin that allows him to read minds. While he is still trying to figure things out, 
 all of a sudden his cell phone buzzes. Telling him he has 60 minutes to reach 104 or face erasure. 
 From there Neku is thrust into a 7 day game for his life.
  
  The story is good enough to be a movie of its own, the characters are some of the most creative 
 and more importantly they all have the best and believable personalities I have seen in a video 
 game. You may start out hating a characters guts. But by the end of the week you will find yourself 
 as attached to them; if not more than Neku.
  
  Controls: 9.0/10
  The controls are for the most part tight. On the over world you use the D-pad, face buttons or 
 touch to move Neku and his partner from place to place. Touch the player pin in the bottom right 
 hand corner to open the screen where you can start battles or read people's minds. And touch the 
 phone icon in the upper right hand corner to open the menu screen where you can check all sorts 
 of things, save, organize your pins into multiple "decks" (basically folders for the mega man battle 
 network players) and equip cloths and food onto your team (more on that later) .
  It's in battles where it starts to go downhill, if only a bit. Your partner controls perfectly, 
 no complaints from me on the upper screen combat. Its Neku on the lower screen that could have 
 used a bit of polish. First off I need to say that all the input commands. Touch, slash, press, 
 scratch, drag, shout (mic) and blow (mic) all work greatuntil you attempt to layer them up.
  Let's say you find slash pin, touch pin and other slash pin as a good combo to your liking. Unless 
 you completely use up the first slash pin, the other one will be unavailable to you unless you 
 set it to your SUB pins in your deck by hitting L or R when you put it in your deck. And then it 
 won't be available in battle unless you hold L or R. and even then a third slash pin will fall 
 victim to the first "must use before" ailment that the other pin hadand you won't be able to fix 
 it. It's an annoyance but in a way it encourages you to vary your deck as much as possible.
  
  Graphics: 10/10
  Although by no means pushing the DS to its graphical limits, TWEWY does 
 push out some excellent 2-D graphics. The art style is highly reminiscent of sonic battle and the 
 few real animations it does have are near perfect for a 2-D game.
  
  Sound: 10/10
  The music in this game is one of its highest points as well. Very seldom will you hear "game" music. 
 Instead the music throughout the game is a lot of high energy pop style music with the majority 
 of the lyrics being sung by female vocalists. The music is stuff you could get away with having 
 on your iPod and not getting called a nerd by the less secure people out there (conveniently the 
 soundtrack is available on ITunes if you're into the music) the minor voice acting done is as good 
 if not better than the music. The random grunts, giggles and the occasional word or even *gasp* 
 short sentence is of the highest quality the DS can pump out. 
  
  Game play: 10/10
  The game play is what ties all of this in together nicely. The battles take place in real time 
 across both screensat once! (: o)
  Although this sounds completely uncontrollable at first the game does a great job at bringing you 
 in slowly. And then still keeps the battles as simple as possible. Your not rewarded as much for 
 button mashing and slashing your touch screen like a drunk chimp. A neat little device the game 
 calls the "light puck" bounces back and forth between your characters as they deal finishing combos. 
 So for example start off the battle by doing a three slash combo on some noise (the games enemies) 
 to spawn the light puck and pass it onto Neku's partner, perform a successful attack with the partner 
 and pass it back. The faster you rally the puck without losing it the higher in power your finishers 
 for both characters become.
  But at the beginning you may still have trouble raping your head around it. Not to worry, auto-play 
 has your back. If you don't control your character for around 3 seconds at the default setting 
 it will start to attack on its own, letting you focus on Neku.
  
  Final word: 10/10
  While The world ends with you has a rather obscene concept to those without an open mind at first, 
 the game has a highly flexible learning curve, excellent writing, better story, and amazing controlled 
 chaos that makes up its game play. The world ends with you is a true diamond in the rough and a 
 DS gem not to be missed, probably the only DS game I reviewed that truly deserved a 10 (I should 
 edit that XD)
  
  Darkspineslayer AWAY!!! (flies off)
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: -insert_coin-
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 25, 2008 10:55 pm PT
Review:  Its very rare that Squenix releases something that's not up to they're own standard. Usually blind 
 fandom forces me to buy a game off the bat the moment I see a Squaresoft / SquareEnix logo. Ive 
 seldomly regretted this, and "World ends with you" is one of those games that I fell in love with 
 immediatly. 
  
  The gameplay alone, RPG-wise, is amazingly unique though still classic. The battle system alone 
 is an amazing tribute to Square's forever changing worlds, and "World ends with you" puts itself 
 easily up there with Final Fantasy and Kingdom Hearts. What makes the battle system so amazing 
 is the how fast paced it gets, and not just a click/select kill fight. The 'armour' system of wearing 
 brand name clothes and getting boosts depending on their popularity is a clever move away from 
 magical artifacts and heavy plate mail. 
  
  The pin system reminds me a lot of the materia system from FF7, though still unique in its own 
 way. The only thing Im not partial towards is the music, though it suits the game pretty well, 
 its not my preference. 
  
  The use of the DS' unique build also helps make this game a one of a kind. 2 screen battles, though 
 confusing at first, make it insanely fun. Square Enix has brought forth another brilliant series, 
 one I can easily follow. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: knilybrik
Rating: 10
Date: May 19, 2008 3:34 pm PT
Review:  The World Ends With You is a new action RPG thats is newly made by the team of kingdom hearts. 
 Starting with game play its very innovated with the two screen battling system and over 300 pins. 
 Some ins are variations but that doesn't bring me down. You control Neku, the main character, with 
 the touch screen and input attacks for your partner on the top screen. The story is amazing and 
 you can't play the game and not be connected with the players. After beating the game there are 
 additional missions and goodies to snag. the menu allows you to set your pins and clothing, check 
 stats, check out the enemy list, and even play a mini game! I don't want to spoil the story so 
 you'll have to play it to see. One last thing if you like a good RPG, story, music, or a new innovation 
 game or a fan of Kingdom Hearts and want to try something from the same mastermind than this is 
 definitely the game for you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Naruto166
Rating: 9
Date: May 19, 2008 11:32 am PT
Review:  The world ends whit you I really and awesome game and the diffilculty is just right and you will 
 like it trust me.
  
  Graphic: Are really good and many enemis look so sweet whit all the grafiti on them but it could 
 be so must beter but I give it. 9/10
  
  Gameplay: You use the DS pen on you main character under movment and combat and the D-pad fpr your 
 other partner. but it is reallt hard whit having to control the two of the so I use so my parther 
 fight on them onwe and that is ome what disappointment. 8/10
  
  Music: The music is sweet but some time really anoying mostly the vocal music but in all just right. 
 8/10
  
  Difficulty: Is just right you can change the difficulty to easy or hard some time under the game 
 but just stay whit medium and you sould not have any problem. 9/10
  
  Overall: If you like Kingdom Hearts you will really love this one but I recommend to all RPGs fan 
 It has some really unique stuff in it. 9/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Spade_Crisis
Rating: 9
Date: May 18, 2008 9:07 pm PT
Review:  The World Ends With You is a RPG that really stand out in the crowd. Sure, they could have made 
 another FF or DQ, but they took the chance to something totally new and was able to show it in 
 a way that makes it hard to describe
  
  STORY- You start out as Neku, a highley fashioned teen (lowely fashioned that was mention by a character 
 in the game) who finds himself waking up in the middle of what is now Shibuya, Tokyo. Startled, you 
 look for clues to how you end up in Shibuya, then starts your adventure. Really deep story.
  
  GAMEPLAY- There seem to be a bit of a learning curve on the game. You have to control both 
 the top and the bottom screen: Bottom controled by the Touch Screen, and Top controled by the Control 
 Pad. It might seem confusing at first, but the gameplay sinks in and you will catch on.
  
  SOUND- Music can really turn the mood of the gameplay. Music here in TWEWY really kicks it off 
 with all sorts of music: including hip-hop, rock, jazz, etc. Each giving a mood to what situation 
 you are in. 
  
  COMBAT-As I said before, controls are confusing at first, but get easier at the end. Square really 
 got creative with the characters, monsters, and even the surroundings. You use these power-ups 
 called PINS. Each pin you wear gives you a specific power-up. For example, a Shockwave Pin will 
 give you the ability to slice your enemy up in close range.
  
  GRAPHICS- Just because it is a 2D RPG doesn't mean the graphics wouldn't be any better. The surroundings 
 really make you feel like your in modern-day Shibuya. Art really stands out and same with the characters. 
 
  
  FLAWS- REALLY confusing at first. You find yourself repeating something over and over again. You'll 
 get what I mean when you beat the first 7 days. 
  
  Sure, it may seem confusing at first but as I repeated for about a million times, it sinks in. 
 You won't find much flaws to this game which will make any FF/DQ fan really happy to what they 
 have to look foward too.
  
  RECOMMENDATION- FULLY RECOMMEDED 
::::::

::::::
UserName: upiter000
Rating: 10
Date: May 18, 2008 2:19 pm PT
Review:  The World Ends With You is a great start to a new franchise the gameplay is just amazing the story 
 absolutely amazing. The game's combat system is probably the coolest feature in the game it takes 
 place on 2 screens and has you controlling Neku Sakuraba on the bottem screen and either Joshua, 
 Shiki, or Beat the games 4 main characters. Neku can use Phychs in the form of pins which you collect 
 throughout the game on the top screen you use the analog buttons to control them and if that isnt 
 enough you also have to complete combos and play little mini-games. Each character you control 
 on the top screen has different moves so you are forced to use different strategy's each 7 days. 
 Another feature to the combat is the style's of shibuya, in shibuya the setting for this marvelous 
 game are different stores and different style's when you where different styles into battle you 
 can change the style in the area and by changing the style the pins related to that style is multiplied 
 or if the style is not in it will split the damage in half.
  
  
  The story as i said and can't say it enough times is great. The story puts you in the shoes of 
 Neku Sakuraba and Shibuya grown teen that dousn't get people the world ends with him ya know. Well 
 anyway he wakes up one day in the middle of the scramble crossing and has a pin in his hand after 
 flipping it in his hand everything goes nuts wacko frogs starting jumping at him (Noise) and then 
 he has to make a pact with his first partner Shiki and then the story starts heating uo you find 
 out little secrets and parts of your memory (your entrance fee into the reapers game) . Once you 
 finish the story you get a chance to play a special level and play the game one more time in each 
 day you have a special objective you have to complete and once you have completed all of those 
 tasks (a terrifiing feat) you gain an awesome alternative ending so there is also a lot of replay 
 value to this game .
  
  
  In all this is probably the greatest game on the DS and probably will be the best for a very long 
 time.
  
  Upiter000 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Arctic_Fox73
Rating: 10
Date: May 17, 2008 8:38 pm PT
Review:  The World Ends With you, is a fantastic game. I'm pretty sure We know what game will in fact win 
 DS game of the year *cough* the world ends with you *cough*
  
  The World Ends With You puts you in control of the intially unlikable character Neku, but as you 
 play on, you grow to like the many characters. Speaking of Characters, the models and designs are 
 really really cool.
  
  I'm sure you've heard the gameplay is a bit different by now. I won't go into the basics, since 
 you probably already know them. Playing as Neku is really really fun. By day 4, you already have 
 a load of customization options. To throw things into the mix, each of Neku's partner's have an 
 odd game mechanic to their attacks such as playing High and Low.
  
  I have one minor complaint about the game though. A couple song in the soundtrack can be annoying, 
 but most are pretty good. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hemadre
Rating: 9.5
Date: Apr 11, 2009 7:52 pm PT
Review:  Phantom Hourglass ruined my perception of handheld games. I thought that it was just a bad game, 
 but it actually ruined the DS for me. It gave me this daunting feeling that all handheld games 
 would be nothing but shoddy action with a few characters slapped on, with nothing to boast but 
 its graphics. In other words, it felt like I was playing a PSP [lol burn] . I felt that all handheld 
 games were doomed to be shallow games with mindless gameplay, hollow stories, and abysmal soundtracks. 
 I mean, I looked back at some of my other DS games: New Super Mario Bros., while being an all right 
 game on its own right, failed to be a rememberable game due to its shxt-for-brains story and it's 
 ear-bleeding music. Metroid Prime Hunters was a big F-you to all Metroid fans everywhere, with 
 its utter lack of any mentions to the other games. And Phantom Hourglass...*shudder*... don't get 
 me started. I thought for sure that the Nintendo DS was doomed... until the World Ends with You 
 came along.
  
  Story: Look at Nintendo's greatest games on the DS [keep in mind that I will not be mentioning 
 the fact that these play well, which they do] . Pokemon Pearl: going around, fighting trainers, 
 trying to beat the Elite 4, stopping some evil team, etc. My point? IT'S THE SAME FXCKING STUFF. 
 Any plot twists in New Super Mario Bros.? "OH, TURNS OUT BOWSA'S ALIVE, LOL". Hunters? "GO HERE. 
 DO SOME STUFF. GO BACK. DO MORE STUFF. GO TO THIS PLACE. DO SOME MORE STUFF. WHY? BECAUSE I TOLD 
 YOU TO, YOU LITTLE BXTCH!" Even Rune Factory, a DS game I adore, I will admit is lacking in the 
 plot department. Mind you it is no where NEAR as horrifying as those mentioned above, but it's 
 still nothing like what you'd find on a game on a home console. The last game I can recall to have 
 a story as well-thought-out, heartwarming, tearjearking, surprising, and overall completely satisfying 
 as TWEWY would be the Fire Emblem games of old, and they were one generation back. TWEWY has opened 
 a door that handheld games wanted to keep locked for so long: DS games CAN have amazing plots. 
 So here's the basic premise: you're an angsty teen, shaggy hair, you want to be alone, and you 
 have amnesia. Hmm... sound familiar? Oh, how about like every other Square Enix game out there? 
 But don't worry; it gets real original real fast. It turns out you [and many others in Shibuya, 
 a huge shopping area in Japan for those who don't know] have to play a "Reaper's Game" in order 
 to gain back that which is most dear to you (in Neku's case, his memories) . However, the many enemy 
 Reapers have at their disposal the stock monster of this game: the Noise, mindless creatures who 
 want nothing more than to multiply by stealing souls from Players. The game lasts 7 days, but that 
 doesn't mean that the game is only that long. Don't worry; the Conductor will keep you playing 
 for much longer than that...
  
  Control: Now here I thought that Phantom Hourglass was the pinnacle of DS control. Well, TWEWY 
 can shove PH's controls right up it's ass, because they are just as good, if not better. On the 
 overworld, so to speak, you can walk around by either dragging the stylus along or the D-pad (or 
 ABXY, for lefties) . But let's cut to the chase; it's all about the fighting. You wear various pins, 
 each one within your stock having a different power. You can tap on enemies to drop boulders, drag 
 the stylus across the screen to make a storm of fire, press down on the screen to make a black 
 hole sucking your enemies in, slash your enemies to slice them apart, and much, much more. The 
 diversity and customability of this fighting system is insanely clever and versatile, fitting to 
 your own desires. However, that's only half of the fighting; on the top screen, your partner's 
 on his/her own, unless you use the D-pad (or, once more, ABXY) to control them. Different combos 
 of the buttons cause different attacks, and successful attacks will cause a "light puck" to pass 
 between the two fighters, multiplying your attack strength. Eventually, once you get enough proper 
 combos from your partner, you can unleash a fusion attack that annihilates everyone. But, I digress; 
 the controls are everything that PH was without the shxtty... everything else.
  
  Graphics: Like I've said before, sometimes games get criticized for using 2D graphics, because 
 they're too "old-school". However, they work perfectly for the anime-style of this game. Oh, speaking 
 of which, I might as well mention this while I'm here. This game is chock full of cutscenes, all 
 preformed amazingly with different camera angles and utilizing both screens. Even if you may not 
 like the over-anorexic art style, it's still worth mentioning, and the graphics are superb.
  
  Audio: This game revolutionized the possibilities of the DS. Not only do the characters talk 
 plenty of times in conversations, battle sequences, and cutscenes, but there is a large soundtrack 
 of music (a soundtrack, mind you, that I bought for $10) unlike anything ever seen in a handheld 
 game. No, it's not orchestral, no it's not way too complicated; what makes it stand out is that 
 it's almost all vocal. A really awesome mix of techno, J-Pop, and rock make this a soundtrack to 
 remember. They all get stuck in your head, and they beat just about everything else on any handheld 
 game anywhere. Oh, and (lawl) a lot of the game is just plain music-based (the characters Beat 
 and Rhyme, etc.)
  
  Length: This game is probably 10-15 hours standard length, which, for a DS game, is pretty damn 
 impressive. And yet, there's an option for you to go back and replay certain days to gain "Secret 
 Reports", which fill you in on more of the game's cryptic background. Trust me; you want to do 
 this. The reports are so eye-opening, they are worth all of the time it takes. And even after gaining 
 the secret reports, you'll be compelled to go back either to complete your pin collection, get 
 all of the enemies' clothing for cosplay purposes, discover all of the Noise, get all of the possible 
 upgrades, or even just to play the story over again.
  
  Replay Value: Like I said before, you can go back and play old days after you beat the game. I 
 mean, there really is no reason to just start the game over, as should you choose to replay days, 
 your level will be just as strong as ever, and you'll be able to pick your partner. It'll feel 
 like you're replaying it all, except you won't be.
  
  Multiplayer: There are a few things you can do with multiplayer, though all of them are multi-card. 
 For one, there's "Tin-Pin Slammer", a fun little mini-game in which you use your pins to knock 
 your enemy's pins around and off the stage (kinda like marbles, except you can grow a giant hammer 
 or dive bomb an enemy from the sky) . Another thing is that you can communicate with friends who 
 also own the game, which opens up a shop in their game for them to buy certain pins and items from 
 you. One last cool thing is that, even with people who don't own TWEWY, if someone else is using 
 wireless (such as playing multiplayer in Hunters of New Super Mario Bros.) , you can gain experience 
 just by being within their range. Don't ask how; you just do.
  
  Boss Fights: I don't know how many bosses this game has; definitely in the double digits, though. 
 Possibly even 20. Of course there are plain bosses like a shark Noise and a vulture Noise, but 
 there are also Harrier and Officer Reapers who make amazing fight scenes. Some become humongous 
 monsters, while others are small and quick and attack you rapidly and unrelentingly. Each boss 
 fight is different with a completely new tactic, and sometimes you're even forced to change your 
 tactic completely multiple times within the battle, unlike certain unmentionable games (Hunters, 
 anyone?) .
  
  Extras: Tin-Pin Slammer is nice. Other than that, there's not much else other than what I've previously 
 mentioned.
  
  Final Statement: People tend to assume that handheld games can't be as good as one of a console. 
 Well, they can, and this one just happens to be so. This is the kind of game that could never ever 
 be played on something like the PSP, or even a home console. This, in it's own, is the DS's pride 
 and joy. We should be expecting a sequel soon, as well as Neku and Shibuya hopefully making an 
 appearance in the next Smash (hey, it's on a Nintendo system, isn't it? fair game) . It will be 
 hard-pressed for any DS game to compare to this, and if you have a DS, then there is absolutely 
 no reason that you should not go right now and buy this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GuitarHero670
Rating: 10
Date: May 16, 2008 2:02 pm PT
Review:  It's rare you find something so original, so funky fresk and new that you begin question why no-one 
 has even thought of it before. But that's exactly the case with The World Ends With You. The game 
 starts with your character called Neku waking up in the middle of a crosswalk and a mysterious 
 mail sent to his phone tells him to complete a mission or be erased. The game goes from there with 
 you meeting characters and completeing missions along the way. Despite the fact these missions 
 suppossedly have a time limit I've spent well over the time limit and have not been erased yet. 
 The story is very deep and immersive like you would expect from an RPG and the game throws tons 
 of plot twists in your face to suprise you.
  
  The most challenging aspect of this game is getting a grip on the battle system. You fight on both 
 screens at once. It takes blinding speed, fast fingers but it's also quite brilliant. You see on 
 the bottom screen you control Neku and using the stylus to activate various psychic attacks and 
 on the top screens you press buttons to guide your partner through combo trees. Get these combo 
 trees right and you earn fusion stars , get enough of them and you'll be able to unleash special 
 moves on all your foes.
  
  As you may have guessed by now The World Ends With You is not your average by-the-numbers RPG but 
 the twisted approach to generic RPG stuff doesn't end there. To increase stats you eat food but 
 you have to wait for it to digest before the full effects kick in. Fashion also plays a big role, 
 clothes and the psychic pins you use to attack all have designer labels. Use the right brand in 
 the right area and you'll gain massive stat boosts.
  
  The graphics are good too with a urban style oozing from the game's characters, enviroments and 
 enemys.
  
  The World Ends With You is a fantastic, original and completey new RPG that should not be ignored 
 if you have a DS. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Adurna0
Rating: 9
Date: May 16, 2008 7:12 am PT
Review:  The good: Innovative battle system, Great story with a lot of plot twists, Interesting characters, 
 Great replay value, Funny dialogues
  The bad: The battle system can take a while to get used to
  
  The story of this game focuses 
 on Neku Sakuraba, a 15 year-old, who lives in Shibuya. Neku wakes up one day, without remembering 
 anything but his name. He finds out that he is playing the Reapers' Game. The Reapers' goal is 
 to "erase" Players like Neku, using monsters called Noise. Neku has to survive 7 days in the game, 
 without being erased.
  As regards the gameplay, the battle system is hard to get used to, but it is revolutionary and 
 fun, in my opinion. What makes it stand out from other games is that you have to play in both screens 
 at the same time and each screen has a different battle style. On the bottom screen, you use Neku 
 who fights by using pins. On the top screen, you use Neku's partner, who you control with the directional 
 arrows.
  The main character may seem a bit, well, emo at the beginning but don't be discouraged by that. 
 As the story progresses, he changes and becomes more social. Apart from the main character, there 
 are a lot of other characters with interesting personalities.
  The story is really addictive as there are a lot of plot twists and many elements of mystery. Another 
 thing that makes this game good is that there is a lot of background story, which is revealed by 
 completing tasks after the main game is finished.
  Which brings us to replay value. There are special "missions" that are unlocked after defeating 
 the game's final boss. In order to complete the missions you have to replay the game's chapters 
 and perform special tasks. Upon completing a mission a "Secret Report" is obtained and new (mainly 
 background) information is revealed. In addition, a bonus chapter is unlocked after defeating the 
 final boss.
  This game's difficulty is completely adjustable. There are 4 levels of difficulty: Easy, Normal, 
 Hard and Ultimate (which is unlocked after finishing the game) . You can select which level to play 
 on, not at the beginning if the game, but during it and you can change it anytime. What's more, 
 you can select what level to play on. That is, you level up, but you can chose to play on a lower 
 level than the maximum level you've reached.
  Another interesting fact is that the game is set in Shibuya, Tokyo. There are shops where you can 
 buy clothes for the characters and pins for Neku. Depending on whether the brand you wear is popular 
 or not, you might get an advantage or a disadvantage in battles.
  Last but not least, this game, unlike others, is very funny. The dialogues will have you laughing 
 for hours.
  RPG and SE fans must buy. Just think how great a game must be to deserve such a huge review! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gamerboy4eva
Rating: 10
Date: May 15, 2008 5:27 pm PT
Review:  i'm sure all of u have heard of the world ends with you. whether its good or bad. listen to me 
 now. THIS GAME IS THE BEST!!!! there have beed many good games since the start of 2007, but thisone 
 stands out a lot. sure, zelda, pokemon, mario, and so on are good but this one deserves the number 
 1 spot. its no suprise from square enix having popular games like final fantasy and kingdom hearts 
 but i think this is their best one yet. i cant put down the ds. ive like totaly dedicated myself 
 to it. you never get tired of it. this game is gonna be passd down from generation to generation 
 and EVERY1 WILL LOVE IT!!!! i love it. my friend loves it. no suprise this game hit the number 
 1 spot. theres not a single flaw. so wat theres only 1 save file. so wat, theres a lot of games 
 with only 1 file. now what are you waiting for?!?!?! GO OUT AND GET THE WORLD ENDS WITH YOU!!!!! 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Tailscoolio
Rating: 9
Date: May 14, 2008 7:00 pm PT
Review:  In my opinion, since the DS launch a lot of the 3D games have seen us fiddling around with bad 
 controls, dodgy camera angles and slow loading times that makes it seem like the looming Nintendo 
 company are laughing at the less tolerant gamers. But of course every now and again Nintendo have 
 decided to bring out a 2D game that really sparks an interest among casual-gamers and hardcore-gamers 
 alike. 
  Many titles have shown what they're made of and the DS has shown that it can have almost next-gen 
 graphics if enough time and care are put into the games, Such as "Yoshi, touch & go!" or "Mario 
 and Luigi: partners in time". So when Square-enix decided to jump on the 2D bandwagon, many were 
 excited while others were throwing mental daggers at them at the thought of a non-mario orientated 
 game being thrown into the bullring.
  
  Of course, for anyone thats played "The world ends with you", you'll already know that this game 
 is worth buying even at the top of the price range. 
  The game is set in Shibuya, Japan and revolves around the story of Neku; a 15 year old who has 
 generally come to learn the art of the "Emo", Already demanding that we all "Just go the hell away!" 
 within the opening. Luckily, his life is forced to change when he meets "Shiki", a sugar-coated 
 plum princess who just wants Neku to admit that he needs friends... or so it would seem...
  As the plot thickens you learn more about whats happening around you (having gained amnesia and 
 being thrust into "The reapers game") by surviving for seven days in the Reapers game and learning 
 to "trust your partner". (no spoilers here then...)
  
  After getting through a deep and fleshy storyline, the gameplay itself is astounding; making you 
 do battle with creature's described as "noise". But thats not as simple as it sounds. Not only 
 do you control Neku, but also his partner, AT THE SAME TIME!!! using both screens to its advantage 
 to make battles a challenging but very dynamic event.
  Of course, if that isn't enough to make you tilt your head and make a puzzled look, then there's 
 also the music tracks. Although i still haven't completed the gruelling task of collecting all 
 the music featured in the game, its well worth trying as every single one gives an uplifting feeling. 
 Sometimes i just stop doing anything in-game so that i can listen to the great rhythm coming out 
 of those little speakers...
  
  The game developers have also been kind enough to make a slow learning curve for the less experienced 
 gamer, but with such a simple game with quickly obvious controls, the tutorials don't drag on and 
 gamers can start playing without the stabilizers very quickly. 
  The game is also very well developed in its knowledge of fashion and "brands". The game tries to 
 focus on the individuality of each person and so the developers have taken extra care to make sure 
 that everyone has their own style and that no two people will look exactly the same, and they've 
 pulled this off well too.
  
  Full credits have to be awarded to the makers of the game and especially to the artists that make 
 the game flawless in terms of graphics and make a bold "Thumbs-up" to confirm that its another 
 classic 2D game. If you haven't played it yet then you really should, although i wouldn't expect 
 a sequel anytime soon, its still worthy of the square-enix logo. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Ninja_Rebel
Rating: 10
Date: May 14, 2008 6:50 pm PT
Review:  One word for this game, WOW!!!! This game brings many things to the table action, supense, twists, 
 and thrills. This game puts you in the post of Neku a 15 year old boy who is some how thrusted 
 into playing the Reaper's Game. Along the way you find out why you are playing and how you got 
 in the game in the first place. You are also allowed to switch the difficulty of the game at ANY 
 time you want!!! (making it hard to choose a difficulty as it all depends on what difficulty you 
 want!!!!!) There are more twists in this game than a pretzal!!! (yes i know bad analogy but, I 
 felt like using one :D) You will question every part of this game until you can really find the 
 truth. The soundtrack is literally like no other, as most of the songs are composed of vocals instead 
 of striaght music, bringing a nice and almost welcome change. You can hear every song through battling 
 and adventuring but, the best way to do it is by going around to various shops and buying the CDs 
 so you can listen to your favorite songs when ever you want. This also brings me to another point, 
 there is a trend feature which either strengthen your pins or weaken. These changes could be teh 
 major difference between winning and losing. Changing trends is easy, just battle with the pins 
 and clothing of the brand you want to be #1. PIns are used in battle to defeat the enemy called 
 Noise, which are brought on by negative thoughts. Pins evolve in three different ways, Battle PP 
 (PP=Pin Points orginal I know) , Mingle PP, and Shutdown PP. Yes, your pins will increase and strenghten 
 even when you aren't playing!!!!! This story has been amazingly crafted by Square Enix and turned 
 into possibly the best game on DS out right now! This is one game that every DS owner should own 
 as it will keep you interested and will suck you in until you can finally figure out all that their 
 is to offer. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: megacam1
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jun 30, 2008 5:07 pm PT
Review:  "The World Ends With You" is a game that makes the saying "don't judge a book by it's cover" and 
 say that u should say to your friends when playing this game. The world ends with you, is a action 
 RPG form the people who brought you kingdom hearts and Final fantasy. In this new RPG, you play 
 as a 15 year boy named Neku who is forced to play a game called "the reaper's game"in which you 
 have to do mission with in 7 days to be able to be brought back to life. Now it may say u have 
 7 days to beat the game but really u have 7 days for 3 different partners (which really adds up 
 to 21 day) . if fail these so called missions in there world you are so called erase. The battle 
 system is extremely good, it really uses the DS's touch screen and mic. ability all thanks to there 
 new thing pins. Pins are use too give your main character different powers, using these power to 
 fight noise (really they are just animals but with writing on them) to defeat them is very helpful. 
 Just by doing what the pin tells you to do like, say for ex: if u slash down on the touch screen 
 neku will attack there if u have to tap the screen something may fall or hit the noise, there is 
 almost endless possible ways to use the pins with the touch screen. Now the top screen is where 
 you partner is seen, now you can set the partner to aether move on there own when the battle starts 
 or set that after a set sec. go by to start to move on there own. You can still use them when there 
 idle but it's still fun to play as neku. Also the game has a item system that allows you to feed 
 and dress your charters so different stats will go up depending on the pop of it in a area .The 
 story line and writing is wonderful since it has a "T for teens" rating on it it was able to get 
 some mild curse words that are not that strong and may be already use by teens.
  Final Thought:
  This a very good game it has great story, great game play, great people and systems 
 and shows the DS what it really can do for RPG games!
  
  By megacam1 
::::::

::::::
UserName: JDRSuperman
Rating: 10
Date: May 13, 2008 4:41 pm PT
Review:  This game is sooooo **** wicked ass awesome that anyone with a ds should buy it. Every character 
 is likable and has their own traits and characteristics that will leave an impression with you 
 forever. The used the DS touch screen to its full advantage and actually made me want to use the 
 stylus for once. The number of pins is also good and I love how everyone pin is similar yet different 
 and has its own unique twist to things. I especially like the one where you shout to use its ability. 
 I hope they come out with a sequel for this game because I can't put it down. Its a good game that 
 anyone can enjoy and they try to make it so little kid wont be the only ones that like it. They 
 really try to make it so teenager (and maybe even adults) can understand and like it. Square Enix 
 has done it again and their ability to surpass other game makers always astonishes me but doesn't 
 surpise me at all. Neko is a really interesting character and his "hero's journey" was a fun one 
 to play. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: CybermasterX
Rating: 9.5
Date: May 13, 2008 6:30 am PT
Review:  I must admit. At first, I was intimidated by the screenshots of this game. I was like "What's with 
 all the arrows?" But, then I find that you can get by simply by hitting left left left left left 
 left or the opposite, and you can even have the computer take full control of your partner, leaving 
 you to just concentrate on one screen.
  
  It really is a lot of fun chucking cars at wolves. There are a number of pins you get right at 
 the start, and you get to try them all. Find a combination that fits your style. Mine was slashing 
 and throwing stuff. Though unnecessary except to power-level, I found myself clearing out an area, 
 leaving and coming back just to fight more Noise.
  
  The story really pulls the player in. The way Square did it pretty much ensured you know everything 
 your character knows from the very beginning. He woke up and this game had begun. He doesn't remember 
 anything before that. He doesn't want to play if the consequence of failure is erasure.
  
  That's the gist of it. I've just started playing, but I like it enough already to review it. I'm 
 on Day 3, and I'll probably be playing it most of the day, tomorrow. A simply excellent game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: XxShadowTongyxX
Rating: 9.5
Date: May 10, 2008 6:47 pm PT
Review:  This game is sweet. Nice graphics, nice sound track, and an amazing story line. But the game is 
 a bit easy. I have been playing the game on normal difficulty, as well as two levels lower than 
 my actual level, reducing my hit points, attack, defense, etc. Boss's can still be defeated fairly 
 easily. The two person combat is kind of complicated. Most of the time you can keep a nice pattern 
 going between the two different characters, but when it really counts to have it, you just can't 
 seem to get it, and your life is depleting so fast, that you just want to hurry and kill the boss 
 before you end up dead. The saving system is a little crappy, considering that the game is so random, 
 you never know whats going to happen, causing you to frequently save the game, or otherwise lose 
 two hours of game play, or how ever long you played for. But I really enjoyed the game, and I hope 
 all of you have as well. For those of you that can't figure why this game is the number one on 
 the DS system. You just need to consider not many good games are released on the system, lets face 
 it. I love Nintendo as much as anyone else... but the games really do suck. Its only once in awhile 
 that a great game comes along. My advice to you people is to get a new system. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: chicken32
Rating: 9.5
Date: Aug 3, 2008 4:23 pm PT
Review:  The World Ends With You, it may sound depressing at first, but this lively and colourful game on 
 the Nintendo DS surprises. When I first played it, the story was as confusing as the combat system, 
 but after half an hour or so the game comes together perfectly. 
  
  The game introduces an innovative combat system, that lets you control two players at the same 
 time, never seen before in my eye, the bottom screen using the stylus and the top screen using 
 any of the face buttons, the learning curve can be a little high, but is rewarding when you get 
 the hang of it. Even grinding through levels is enjoyable. More than most RPG's.
  
  Another innovation introduced is the ability to change your level, so the enemies you defeat drop 
 more items known as Pins, adding to that, you can change the difficulty in game, which would affect 
 the types of pins enemies dropped.
  
  Instead of armor and swords, you buy skirts, and shoes. These items like pother RPG's add armor 
 or attack strength. And you can also buy Ramen noodles which act like health.
  
  The story is one about trust, social status, and other things that may disturb the human psyche. 
 This message is not as strong and compelling as I'd thought it would be, but theres enough of it 
 that will make you feel different after playing the game.
  
  The audio is top notch, the best ever on the DS, with one of the best soundtracks ever, about 10+ 
 songs, and some fantastic voiceovers, although mostly its text based dialouge. 
  
  The graphics, although not 3d like Final Fantasy: Rings of Fate, are in fact 2d anime style, and 
 the Art style totally makes up for it.
  
  With a fanatastic story, music, characters, and anime styled graphics. This is the best DS game 
 to be released, it will take you about 20 hours the first time, depending how hooked you are with 
 the combat, and afterwards you can play through the whole game again with items and such carried 
 over.
  
  This game could in fact be an anime to itself. With the ending that is satisfying unlike some actual 
 animes. (ELFEN LIED) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Laceyrpfreak
Rating: 9.5
Date: May 8, 2008 12:30 pm PT
Review:  When I first heard of this game, I was on my favorite Art site, Deviantart, where they were holding 
 a contest. Long story short, Square-enix provided concept art for this game and artists were supposed 
 to be inspired by them. As soon as I saw them I went straight out to get the game. 
  
  This game is by far the best on the nintendo DS, and in my opinion rivals the greatest rpg of all 
 time (final fantasy 7, of course.) The story is the greatest part of the game. As soon as you pick 
 this game up, the plot reels you in and holds you there. Twists are around every corner, and you 
 can't help but guess what happens next (trust me, I was wrong most of the time!) 
  
  The battle system can be conroversial, as you fight on both screens. I find that it takes only 
 a few hours of practice before your eyes can flick between two screens, your hands flying simultaniously 
 to keep the Noise (or the monsters of the game) at bay. Alot of the time you simply have to slash 
 the bottom screen and press the same buttons on the top, so it can even be easy. But! if the game 
 is too easy, you can always re-adjust your levels or setting of difficulty whenever you want. 
 
  
  The idea of trends and brands is brilliant and realistic. Though sometimes I found that there were 
 not enough pins (or attacks) from my favorite brand, and thusly you may benefit from one and get 
 mauled for wearing the other. It is best to stick with one or two (I used Tigre Punks and J of 
 M, but when it comes down to it no brand is really any better than the other) 
  
  The sounds are brilliant, and the voice acting (even if there is little of it) is superb. Fans 
 of video game music and haters of rap, prepare to change! The music is so catchy, and being able 
 to buy the songs to listen to at any time during the game is a great idea that I hope catches on. 
 
  
  If you like kingdom hearts or any final fantasy, you better rush out to get this game now! Like 
 the O-pins in the game, this game will definately soon be the next big thing! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: benleslie5
Rating: 10
Date: May 8, 2008 11:57 am PT
Review:  Probably one of the most strangest games you'll ever see on DS, your looking at both screens at 
 once through out the game. From the delightful series of Kingdom Hearts series Square Enix has 
 once again made anathor great game thats really worth playing.
  
  Main story is set in Tokyo where you play as a silent charcter caled Neku who gets a phone message 
 warning that he will only have 7 days to live. A mysterious group called Reapers who play a dangerous 
 game where they earseing people for fun. So it's up to Neku to surive and complete the missions 
 but he gets help from his new friends that he meets. Mostly your trying to find how Neku died it 
 sorta feels like Kingdom Hearts 2 where at beginning Roxas or near the end of the game Sora and 
 the Gang that were on the other side of Twlight Town. Neku not the only stuck playing there games 
 you get help from Shiki who is a girl who has a stuffed homade cat to surive. Joshua knows alot 
 about this game game and more info on what happens to him later on in the game. Beat and Rhyme 
 who are brother and sister and always looking out for each other there story gets more serious 
 as well.
  
  During Gameplay in battle mode you mostly controlling Neku but you'll have a partner who will be 
 on the top screen and you'll be pressing the directinoal buttons which sort of feels like dancing 
 stage. The bottom screen playing as Neku your using the touch screen to attack your weapons are 
 pins/badges which where each pin has a touch command assigned to it that triggers a unique ability 
 example a Thunder Pin= Just tap the screen at enimies, some pins you have to draw a circle or blowinging 
 into the microphone for an attack. Sometimes in battles a pin will appear on the top right screen 
 where you can use Fusion/Limit Break where two charcters can use a powerful attack to take out 
 enimies. There are some puzzles in the game during the game your scanning and reading peoples thoughts, 
 also scanning and hunting down Noise's (Enimies) . Your also doing tasks in order to get to the next 
 part of the game like taking out enimes in random battles or get your pins at a higher level.
 
  
  I loved the art and the graphics for this game does remind you of KH Chain of Memories (GBA) mixed 
 with Jet Set Radio. The cutscenes are more like a manga/graphic comic book, the city of Tokyo looks 
 really well done and the battles you go through are just feels like a GBA game but on 2 screens. 
 Tetsuya Noruma did charcter designs for this game you'll probably notice if your a Final Fantasy 
 fan or if your into his art. Sounding was great too brillient soundtrack to listen while playing, 
 great voicing as well and I really liked the graffiti art through out the entire game it was just 
 amazing its just one of those games thats perfect to a Zelda game on DS.
  
  A clever thing about this is if your leveling up your pins and you can't be bothered going through 
 random battles you can just turn off your DS leave it for a few hours, load your game and it will 
 show how EXP is given to your pins longer you leave the high EXP points you'll get for each pin. 
 
  Main game can take up to more the 20 hours or more pending how much you play it and enjoy it. 
 
  There is Wi-Fi if you were wondering has a few features but you'll need someone esle to have a 
 copy of this game in order to do so. I've waited a year and a half for this game I think its been 
 worth waiting becuase this was a very enjoyable game since Zelda came out for the DS. If your looking 
 for a game to replace Pokemon or Mario, The World Ends With You is really worth picking up if your 
 a fan of Square Enix, love the art or a challenge its worth getting seriously. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bfeinstein
Rating: 9.5
Date: May 6, 2008 7:47 am PT
Review:  Does anyone do RPG's better than Square Enix? Maybe BioWare, but the team at Square Enix is pretty 
 solid. And their latest release, The World Ends With You, is another jewel in the crown.
  
  This is unlike any RPG you have ever played and it truly breaks new ground. The story is as far 
 a departure from the usual swords/sorcery/overwhelming evil as you can get. This game is set in 
 modern-day Tokyo, which has to be an RPG first. Without revealing the story, it is different and 
 it is engaging. You will want to know why this is all happening.
  
  The characters themselves are a little less engaging. Like so many Square Enix main characters, 
 they all seem a little young, self-absorbed simplistic and a little annoying. The main character, 
 Neku, is a caricature of a self-obsessed teen. In fact, most of the characters you spend time with 
 are on the annoying side -- one-dimensional and shallow. But if you suffer through them, the story 
 line and the gameplay is worth it.
  
  The game makes outstanding use of the DS's unique set-up. Battle takes place with two characters 
 simultaneously. Neku is on the bottom screen and controlled with the stylus and your partner is 
 on the top screen controlled by the D-Pad. Trying to fight both fights at the same time is chaotic 
 at best. A real challenge that, had it been the only way to play, would make the game inaccessible 
 for many gamers. However, a couple of mechanics lower the burden. A "puck" transfers between the 
 two players which helps determines who to focus on. Also you can set the options to have the game 
 auto-play the top screen character while you focus on Neku. You will reduce your effectiveness 
 since the AI will not play the top screen optimally, but it also reduces the player's workload.
 
  
  Neku's powers are manifested in a series of pins. Different pins give different powers. You can 
 only have a few in use at a time. The pins themselves increase in power as they are used in battle 
 and many of them "evolve" into more powerful pins over time. The pins are activated by moving the 
 stylus. Want to use the earthquake pin? Scratch the stylus on the screen back and forth quickly. 
 Want to use a pin that drops boulders on the enemy? Put the stylus on screen where you want the 
 boulders to fall and tap quickly. Every pin has a stylus move that activates the power. However, 
 with 300 different pins, it is inevitable that many of the moves of some pins are nearly the same 
 as others which means if you have two pins equipped that use the same move, you may activate the 
 pin you were not intending. The game allows you to prioritize the order that pins sharing a move 
 are activated which helps some.
  
  The game also reinvents the whole issue of leveling up. You gain levels like you do in almost any 
 RPG. However, you can set your options to let you play at a lower level than you are actually at. 
 This makes the battling more difficult (mostly because of reduced HP rather than reduced power) 
 but increases the amount of loot that defeated enemies drop. More loot means access to more powerful 
 equipment and there is a TON of stuff to buy. From clothing to food -- and food provides an interesting 
 mechanic that requires the player to think about what they will eat each day (real life day NOT 
 game day) as you can only each so much -- you will never get it all.
  
  The World Ends With You also makes interesting use of the fact that many DS players do not play 
 every day. Even if you are NOT playing, your pins are gaining points toward increased power and 
 will do so for up to seven days after your last play. It is common to turn on your game after a 
 break of a day or two and find you received enough points to level up your pins.
  
  This is an engrossing game that breaks new ground and sets the standard for RPGs on the DS. This 
 is not the most accessible game, especially for less-skilled gamers, but for those that work to 
 meet the challenge will be rewarded with a great story and unique gameplay. Try it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kingkui
Rating: 10
Date: May 6, 2008 4:46 am PT
Review:  This game is the best on the DS so far. It has an innovative combat system, interesting and lengthy 
 story, good cast of characters, and a deep pin level up system. I'll keep it spoiler free.
  
  The combat system shines in this game. On the bottom screen you play as Neku, using the sylus 
 to perform various skills that you obtain from equipping pins. On the top screen you control your 
 partner. Using left, right, up, down, or A, B, X, Y you perform combat moves. If you sync with 
 your partner you'll gain a special move. Sync again and you get the max level of that special move, 
 and deal stronger attack.
  The story is very deep. It give you Neku, kind of emo at first. He has the "I don''t care what 
 you do just don't get in my way" attitude. His partner is Shiki. She has a "We can work it out 
 together" personality, at first. The story is you have 7 days to beat the Reaper Game. As you progress 
 you'll learn more about each character, and why they are in the Game. 
  There is a pin system that allows you to level up pins to perform stronger attacks. You obtain 
 pins by fighting, buying from stores, or rewards from beating a boss. There are over 300 pins in 
 all.
  
  Overall this game is the best, simple as that. There's at least a 10 hour story, and that's if 
 you rush through it without fighting. There is also 10 hours of replay value. If you haven't already, 
 buy this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: shinigami617
Rating: 9.5
Date: May 6, 2008 2:26 am PT
Review:  Forget Pokemon, forget Rings of Fates, forget Revenant Wings, a new game has entered the competition. 
 The World Ends With You from start to finish, is and interesting game. The game-play was a bit 
 confusing at the beginning, but it grows on you. The 3 arc storyline was a smart move, but it would 
 only be expected by the division of square enix that made the Kingdom Hearts series. Dialogue may 
 be strenuous at times, but doesn't hurt the game's quality one bit. Artwork and music are both 
 fantastic in this game. It's a bummer that only one file can be made on one cartridge. Pin evolution 
 can become an obsession, so go to TWEWY's wikia page for a complete list. In conclusion, this game 
 is well worth the money and more. I hope a sequel is being planned, because this deserves one. 
 If anyone hates this game, they are not human! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: chaos269
Rating: 9.5
Date: May 6, 2008 1:19 am PT
Review:  The moment i started playing this game i got hooked on it, i mean this is really something. You 
 actually get to play on both screens which means double the fun. The music is great, story line 
 is interesting and the charcters were designs excellent. The actual difference about it is that 
 you need to battle by actually scanning the area with your mind and in return you can either read 
 peoples minds or battle, you can even lower you level down so that you can get rarer items which 
 makes you try different things all the time and see what suits you more. Square enix really know 
 how to make RPG's and they the best at it. All i have to do now is wait for them to release the 
 up coming and famous Final Fantasy XIII and being a final fantasy maniac and actually playing everyone 
 that was released and finishing it just makes me even more anixous to get started on the next title. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: fmobliv06
Rating: 9
Date: May 4, 2008 2:47 pm PT
Review:  The World Ends With You is a hyper stylish RPG from the role playing masters at Square-Enix, and 
 it's the most original game of its kind to be released in a long time. The game opens with an amnesiac 
 teenage boy (ok, so not everything in TWEWY can be so original) named Neku lying face down on the 
 pavement in the middle of Shibuya. He quickly meets up with a girl named Shiki and learns that 
 they are both players in a twisted game being run by a group called the Reapers. If they fail to 
 complete the objectives given to them by the Reapers within seven days, they will die. If they 
 survive the seven days, they can go on living as normal.
  
  There are a lot of conversations in TWEWY, especially in the beginning of the game, that serve 
 to flesh out the characters. While it's not FFVII, this game still does a good job of making you 
 care about its characters and its world. Players will watch Neku go from an anti-social d-bag to 
 a more open and decent person. I never though that such a transition could be made in the span 
 of seven days, but that's one oversight that I'm willing to overlook because watching the characters 
 grow is so much fun.
  
  Gameplay is a long shot away from most RPGs. Playable characters appear on both screens; one is 
 controlled by making different motions with the stylus, while the other is controlled by inputting 
 DDR-like commands on the D-Pad. It sounds chaotic, and it really is at first, but the unique controls 
 become second nature after a while. There is also a ton of depth thrown in via different pins that 
 enable different types of attacks, a fashion system to keep track of (in which you must always 
 dress fashionably in order to get the best attack bonuses in battle) , a strange take on the healing/food 
 system that reminds me of Contact, as well as several other tweaks that are eventually made to 
 the battle system. Many of these things are thrown at you pretty fast, but try not to feel overwhelmed. 
 As stated before, most of it becomes second nature. 
  
  All of this frantic play is supported by a very nice graphical style. It's one part 16-bit, one 
 part stylish anime, and it works superbly. Character desings in particular are so stylish that 
 your eyes could explode simply from viewing them. The sound matches the bustling streets of Shibuya 
 perfectly, although I wasn't always crazy about it. My biggest problem with the music was that 
 it took a bit of getting used to; I'm just not used to hearing techno and pop music accompany an 
 RPG. A lot of the music is actually pretty catchy, though. I have the soundtrack playing in iTunes 
 right now, as a matter of fact. 
  
  Overall, TWEWY is one game that should not be overlooked by DS owners. In my opinion, it's the 
 best thing to hit the system since New Super Mario Bros. thanks to its awesome art style and music, 
 fun dialouge that will surprise you with its tenderness and humor, and unique gameplay. It may 
 sound like a chaotic game, but all of the elements fit together fantastically to create a great 
 game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Canuck3000
Rating: 9
Date: May 30, 2008 8:59 am PT
Review:  The World Ends With You is really something amazing. It takes a new spin on how to play RPGs, it 
 uses the DS really well, has a great story, an amazing soundtrack, and great characters. It's not 
 only a RPG you need to own, but any DS owner owes it to themself to at least TRY this game.
  
  Now when you talk about RPGs, you need to talk about story. I don't want to talk about that 
 too much however, as it's full of plot twists, and not everything is told to you in the start, 
 so if I tell you what the game is really about, I'll be spoiling it. So I'll say this... You are 
 a boy named Neku, and you have 7 days to win a game... That's all I can really tell you without 
 ruining the story.
  
  Going to the gameplay. You run around like you would in any other RPGs. You watch ( Well, read 
 ) cut sences, and you battle. You fight with both screens at the same time ( If that's too much 
 to handle, you can have the computer play as your partner, you will always play Neku ) You play 
 as Neku on the touch screen and your partner on the top. While playing as Neku, you can attack 
 by using the stylus. You move the stylus in ways depending on the the "Pins" you are using, you 
 equip the pins in the menu and then you can do those attacks. Some you will swipe over an enemy, 
 others you will tap them, yell into the DS mic and so on. The top screen is the harder, you use 
 the D-pad to attack, if you are attacking to your right, you press to the right, if you want to 
 attack left, you press left, you also will need to string combos, so you would go... Right, Right, 
 Up, Right, Right ( That's just an example ) and it's not the same each time, so you need to look... Simple 
 right? But you need to do that while using Neku. So you will be doing a combo and swiping on the 
 touch screen. It sounds hard, and to be honest, at first it is. When you first play, let the computer 
 play as your partner and just use Neku, and them go from there. There is also no items, and you 
 and your partner share the same HP bar. The only way to heal is to use your fusion attack ( The 
 game will explain how to do that, it will change in the game. Again, to tell you why would be to 
 spoil ) and to use a healing pin... It's a lot to take in at first, but it's pretty easy once you 
 get a handle on it. The game does falter in some places however, some areas are MUCH harder then 
 others and can really... Just... Kick your ass. You'll be blazing past everything and then just "slam 
 into a wall" and be left unsure of what to do next or how to defeat some bosses. It can make the 
 game frustrating, and very much so at the end, where you must fight three bosses without being 
 able to save or to leave the area. Leaving you stuck to fight all three again if you happen to 
 die at the last one and want to take a break. Even thought simply leveling up will help you beat 
 the bosses and none of the games "puzzles" are too hard to make you not want to play anymore. It's 
 just annoying in places and can really hinder your overall enjoyment of the game
  
  The game looks and sounds great too. The soundtrack is unlike any in the other DS games I have 
 played, and unlike most in RPGs. It's not just a music clip, but songs. It really fits the games 
 tone and really brings you into the world. The world and characters all look great also, full of 
 both colour and life. It's really amazing that they fit all this in a DS game.
  
  On the downside, the game is pretty short. Most players will finish it in maybe as fast as two 
 days. It's around 12 hours long. It has some replay value with it's harder difficulties, and it 
 has a little bit of extra content while playing it over for the second time. 
  
  Bottom line. It's a great RPG and an amazing DS game on it's own. If you can get over how short 
 it is, you'll have a great time with The World Ends With You. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Jesushazluv
Rating: 9.5
Date: May 4, 2008 5:46 am PT
Review:  I apologize to Square-Enix and to the Jupiter Staff. I saw the spiky haired kids, the whacked-out 
 symbols, the crazy stupid (excluding a few) outfits, and the badge system. I pronounced that another 
 Chain of Memories was on our hands. Not saying Chain of Memories was a horrible game, but it wasn't 
 good. I didn't want to support Square-Enix making another "Chain of Memories" so I was thinking 
 of passing up the title without a second glance. Yet, a person I know kept bothering me about how 
 great the game was and why he bought a DS JUST for that game. Now I wouldn't go as far to buy a 
 system for any game, except Kirby SuperStar (which I have the system for already) . I digress. Here 
 are the reasons you need to get this in your DS library whether you love or hate the "spiky-hair 
 RPG" genre.
  
  GREAT MUSIC
  
  I skipped straight to the soundtrack for a reason. The music in battles is very upbeat. You get 
 a mix of Japanese songs, but not the kind you may find in Okami (which I must buy) . But music that 
 perfectly fits the setting of modern Japan. Which is where the story takes place as Neku must overcome 
 the Reapers' Game with other teens in a certain amount of time or face erasure. 
  
  GREAT CHARACTERS
  
  The characters are all colorful in their own way. Not in a traditional 
 fashion either. Your playable character, Neku, isn't the lovey-dovey hero we have all come to expect 
 from Japanese RPGs. He is a teen that leans on emo, doesn't trust anyone, but himself. Doesn't 
 even want to cooperate with other beings. At first you might say "Oh boy, I am playing an emo kid. 
 How's mom going to react when she sees me playing a wrist cutter" . But later on you find out more 
 about him as a person and on the way are likely to learn something about yourself. His companions 
 and enemies also have great personalities along with acceptable dialogue.
  
  GREAT GAMEPLAY
  
  The game plays with both the bottom and the top screen. Neku being at the 
 bottom, controlled with attacks/movement by stylus and sometimes the MIC. The top screen homes 
 Neku's partner, whoever it may be at the time. A slight mini-game at the top, unique to each partner, 
 determines how many stars you get to go towards your Fusion Special. The mini games which all deal 
 with hand-eye coordination are confusing at first, but you will get the hang of it later on. The 
 specials also look amazing. 
  As for the badge system. It's a unique system to say the least. You equip badges that you pick 
 up from enemies or purchase from one of the many stores housed in Shibuya (the set city) . As you 
 might have guessed there are a little over 300 badges laying about. Each levels up differently, 
 and grows more powerful as you level it up. There are different ways to level up badges, but...... I'll 
 keep that a surprise for you o find out one you get the game. Some badges use certain stylus movements 
 and few use the MIC for you to blow in or shout in. Oh Disclaimer: BUY DS SCREEN PROTECTORS BEFORE 
 BUYING THIS GAME! You will be scratching, alot. To save your screens and your potential screams 
 at the sight of your bottom screen, buy DS Screen Protectors. It's worth it. I bought some before 
 I got the game luckily. There are a few other aspects like food and clothes and districts, but 
 again. BUY THIS GREAT GAME to find out what these are for yourself. I won't spoil the entire experience.
 
  
  GREAT STORY
  
  You will learn something about yourself and you will learn about how the thought of life should 
 work through us. Different story. Essential Lesson. You have to experience it yourself because 
 my words give NO JUSTICE. You need to buy the game to see the best story on the DS shed it's light 
 to you.
  
  GREAT GAME
  
  As for difficulty you can change it to EASY, NORMAL, HARD, make yourself level 1, make yourself 
 your current MAX level AS MUCH AS YOU WANT between battles. It's the first time I've seen something 
 like this utilized in a game. The harder you make it for yourself, the greater badges you get. 
 Visa Versa, yet you can get good badges on Easy. It's just more rare than on Normal and Hard. You 
 can fix your battle from a tiny frog to the Final Boss. It's a sense of customization that I love 
 and have again, never seen before. More RPGs should use this. And overall, 9.5 ! This id the best 
 game I've played on the DS and if you have a DS/DS Lite. You owe it to yourself and Square-Enix 
 and Jupiter Staff to play this masterpiece that will set a level for future handheld RPGs to come.
 
  
  
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: PS3-over-360
Rating: 6.5
Date: May 3, 2008 5:39 pm PT
Review:  The Good:
  Great graphics, innovative battle style, a fresh take on RPGs
  
  The Bad:
  The main character is an idiot. The music is jpop. The battles can be aneurism-inducing.
  -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
  
  Maybe I shouldn't be doing this after only playing for two hours, but I'm not sure I have the stomach 
 for more. The thing running through my head the entire time was "Why the hell are people so in 
 love with this game?" I still don't quite understand it, since it is clearly a beat-em-up with 
 a few RPG trappings, and a lot of fake cool and teen angst. About ten minutes in, and I wanted 
 to smack the main character, who, two hours later, was still being a complete twit. Strike one 
 for the game.
  
  Strike two came when I came up against a boss I couldn't beat, and had to try again. And again. 
 And..... One thing I despise in a game: having to repeat missions over and over until the win happens. 
 It's not fun after the fourth or fifth time. If there was a branching set of paths, where a loss 
 means you end up going somewhere else, instead of having to tediously re-load and re-play the same 
 frustrating mission again, it would have been truly innovative. As it is, this is an on-the-rails 
 beat-em-up with upgradeable "weapons" (pins) and armor (clothes) . Again, maybe I haven't given 
 the game enough of a chance, but frankly, I pay money for a game to be entertained 
::::::

::::::
UserName: WTA2k5
Rating: 9
Date: May 3, 2008 12:32 pm PT
Review:  Let's face it, the JRPG formula is getting a little bit old. But, just when you think all SquareEnix 
 is going to keep giving us is Kingdom Hearts, and Final Fantasy, along comes The World Ends With 
 You. Few games have the quirkiness, originality, and all around charm that The World Ends With 
 You does.
  
  Neku Sakuraba is a young punk who doesn't like the company of others. He wakes up in a busy street 
 in the Japanese city of Shibuya, and finds himself in the middle of The Reaper's Game, a series 
 of challenges set up by an evil force that he must complete with the help of a partner in order 
 to survive. Neku starts of as the normal angst-ridden teen that you can find in many JRPG's, but 
 this is a character that you truly see develop into a different person by the end of the game. 
 All the characters are interesting, and there are plenty of great twists and turns, not to mention 
 that certain parts of the game are extremely funny.
  
  The combat in The World Ends With You is truly inventive. You use both the screens actively, on 
 the touch screen, you control Neku, and use many touch based attacks like slashing across the screen 
 to punch an enemy, or tapping it to zap them. On the top screen, you control his partner. The partner 
 is controlled using the D-Pad, or the face buttons, and you tap them rapidly to pull off some pretty 
 mean combos. It's a bit of a daunting task to maintain control of two screens filled with enemies 
 at first, but you'll gradually get used to it, and the game has a few ways of helping you out; 
 while it's not really recommended, if you want to focus solely on Neku's screen, his partner will 
 go into an auto-pilot sort of mode, but there's also the very effective Puck system, in which a 
 beam of light (the Puck) is passed between Neku, letting you take control of whoever has the Puck.
 
  
  But, the game is an RPG of course, and it has no shortage of awesome RPG elements. You can buy 
 food which act to buff up your character's stats, and clothes will act as equipment. But where 
 The World Ends With You really shines is the Pin system. Pins essentially act as your spells, any 
 move you pull off in combat is made possible because of a certain Pin you have equipped. You can 
 amass a stock-pile of dozens and dozens of different Pins, and level them up due to how much you 
 use them in combat. Unlike standard RPG's where you pick a set of a few moves that are your favorites, 
 you really must change up your tactics in order to survive.
  
  The game also has quite an odd system where you can set your level. Say you just leveled up to 
 level 10. If you stick with level 10 status, you'll have more health, but you can choose to drop 
 your level down to any level below yours, so if you wanted to, you could sacrifice some HP to go 
 down to level 9. The advantage of this is that you'll get more drops from enemies. It's quite an 
 odd system, but it allows you to adapt your gameplay experience to where you feel comfortable in 
 terms of difficulty.
  
  The one real downside to the gameplay in The World Ends With You is that it simply tries to do 
 too much. There are just so many systems you'll have to learn, and there's only a few that you'll 
 use often.
  
  I'm inclined to say that The World Ends With You is the pinnacle of 2D on the DS. The graphics 
 really do look beautiful, and the character designs are awesome. The animation is smooth, and the 
 game just all around has a slick, colorful look to it.
  
  The easiest plus to the game's sound department is its sound track, you have dozens of actual music 
 tracks to pick from, and they all have these very upbeat, pop/techno sound to them that really 
 match the vibe of the game. The sound effects are great too, but unfortunately, there aren't many 
 voice-tracks, and the voice clips they do have are repeated to an irritating degree.
  
  The game will take you quite a while to finish. It'll take you about 12-14 hours to beat if you're 
 strictly following the story, but if you choose to wander about Shibuya, or combat more enemies, 
 the game's length could easily reach near the 20 hour mark. It's not the longest RPG you could 
 get for the DS, but the game's length does match its pace.
  
  The World Ends With You is a very clever game. The combat is awesome, if a bit complicated, and 
 there are plenty (maybe too many) RPG elements, and the game is of a pretty reasonable length. 
 The graphics are gorgeous, and the sound department is great for the most part. All in all, if 
 you're a fan of RPG's, you really can't go wrong with The World Ends With You.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Jon_Sly
Rating: 10
Date: May 3, 2008 12:21 pm PT
Review:  The World Ends With You for the Nintendo DS
  
  The Good- Amazing Storyline, Amazing controls, Top notch graphics, A large selection of music
 
  
  The Bad: Don't you wish Toyko was a bit bigger?
  
  Gameplay 10/10
  Graphics 10/10
  Sound 10/10
  Storyline 10/10
  Replay Value and Extra's 10/10
  
  I have never given a game 
 a 10 on the DS and theres alot of great games on it, but this one really is made for everyone and 
 it truly is a masterpiece to play. You play as a 15 year old boy named Neku who hates people and 
 is sucked into a gaming world in which he has no idea whats going on. He later figures out he must 
 work with other players and work as a team and this is not an easy task for Neku to get to know 
 people. So Neku was learn alot about himself and others and engages in one amazing adventure that 
 takes play in Toyko. The area's are mostly all REAL life places in the REAL world so its preety 
 cool. The graphics and sprites look top notch on the ds and the killer sound track is just amazing 
 to listen to. This games gameplay focuses on using the styles to battle with, using different motions 
 to use attacks like slashing up and down to do a swinging kick down, or slashing on your enemy 
 to do a barrage of slashes on him. There are tons of attacks to use called pins which are used 
 in both the real world and in this game world neku has been put into. On the top screen you have 
 Neku's partner who each have different way of fighting and styles, luckly for not so good players 
 theres a auto option so the game will do it for you, or you can control it yourself by using either 
 the main controls on the side or the buttons if your left handed. This game is solid on the ds 
 and just a masterpiece to play, I don't want to mention anymore as its best to play and learn yourself, 
 but I will tell you the game lasts about 20-30 hours maybe a bit more if you do all the extra's 
 it overs, including a neat mini game at the end using pins. This game is a must for any DS owner 
 and in the end this game teaches as a lesson on life and if a game can do that and be really fun 
 I think its done its job don't you?
  
  Overall- 10/10 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: squirlman555
Rating: 10
Date: May 3, 2008 11:43 am PT
Review:  many new rpgs have repetitive stories, horible combat, and not enough custimization. the world 
 ends with you, on the other hand, has an amazing heartwrenching story, innovative combat, and enough 
 cusimization to keep you entertained for weeks. the combat is difficult and at times it feels like 
 your just button mashing but then you see that Game Over screen and realize you acyualy have to 
 pay attention and this is not a button masher. Square Enix has done a good job of making level 
 grinding fun and custimization is simular to the much loved materia system only a lot more innovative. 
 in the end the game is amazing and even though the story gets confusing at times it does a good 
 job of really pulling you in and ties the whole game together quite nicely. 10 out of 10! if you 
 have DS and do not have this game then get off your butt and buy it, if you do not have a DS then 
 go buy one and buy this game as well. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bugsnaruto
Rating: 10
Date: May 3, 2008 10:30 am PT
Review:  I was iffy about the game at the beginning, but after all the instruction and intros were done 
 I would not stop playing. You start out as a emo boy named Neku, and he hates people. But later 
 in the game he starts to like people and fights for his friends. The gameplay was the biggest shocker. 
 I thought it was going to be boring and confusing, but it has te best gameplay out of all the squarenix 
 games. Innovative is the best word to described it. The 16 bit graphics matched well with the background 
 and maded the game more inviting. The best part of the game is Tin Pin Slammer. You have to knock 
 someone elses pins with yours off of a table. It mights not sound fun but even if minigame game 
 will suck you. If you are a squarenix fan or just like to have plain old fun this game is right 
 for everyone 
::::::

::::::
UserName: RenoTurks
Rating: 10
Date: May 2, 2008 11:23 am PT
Review:  THIS is the best game I've played in years!
  For the first time since FFXII release, I found this game entertaining, the second I turned it 
 on. Normally I don't play many games on my Nintendo DS but so far, it seems attached to my hand; 
 it's that addictive! This is a MUST have game for RPG gamers! It is also the first game that has 
 blown me away with its functionality for left handers like me; being able to control both characters 
 without having to put the pen in my right hand to play! It is so much easier and very challenging 
 to look at both screens at the same time! It is veeery different from the other titles that Sqaure 
 Enix is most famous for. The real time battle system is very different and is a massive selling 
 point of the game. The Pin attachment system is like an updated version of the Materia in FFVII, 
 and is almost as much fun placing the Materia in the desiered slots. All I have left to say is; 
 well done Sqaure Enix! You made a great game again! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Bakutakamine
Rating: 9.5
Date: May 2, 2008 9:41 am PT
Review:  "Neku, The World ends with you..."
  
  In the world ends with you, the main character Neku finds himself in the scarmble crossing in Shibuya 
 Japan, with no idea how he got here or any clue of anything. This is the basis to the story, and 
 while the story is the best an RPG can get the game is all about the game play, with the bottom 
 screen of your DS you control Neku, and on the top, the control one of three other characters with 
 the D-padf (or a-b buttons if yor a lefty) either way, you may think this will be overwelming at 
 first but it really isnt, the computer can control the top character while you can control the 
 bottom in the begining, but later you'll want to branch off and do a little more, And if seems 
 overwelming screw the top character, you dont get the full of the game but the top characters are 
 a lot more simple, this is all im going to say because this game needs no review, it's almost... 
 perfect. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: FriendlyCrono
Rating: 9.5
Date: May 13, 2008 11:41 am PT
Review:  The World Ends With You is an RPG made by Square Enix.
  
  This is one of the best RPGs in the last few years and it might be the best DS game on the market.
 
  
  The story is very engaging and will make you keep playing to find out what happens next.
  
 
  The graphics are 2D cell shaded. The art design rivals Okami.
  
  The sound effects are good and well placed, but they won't amaze you. The music is outstanding 
 and catchy. You will have some of the songs in your head when you're not playing.
  
  The game has a very original and unique battle system in which you fight as two people, one on 
 each of the DS's screens. It can take some time to get used to it, and once you do, you'll love 
 it's fast pace and wish it was even faster.
  
  The game lasts 12-16 hours for the main game. You can also collect all the pins if you want (pins 
 are items you give your character to grant him an ability) . There is also an online multiplayer 
 game called Tin Pin.
  
  
  I very highly recommend this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Shinno441
Rating: 9.5
Date: May 1, 2008 7:03 pm PT
Review:  For a long while now Square Enix has been milking the same two franchises with little originality 
 between the two. Now, SE takes a new turn for the better in this amazing RPG for the DS.
  
  The good:
  - Superb Story
  - You can select any part of the story to go back to once you've 
 beaten the game.
  - Great soundtrack
  - All battle and over world aspect of clothing, eating, and all the little stat-boosters are implemented 
 well
  - The pin system covers a wide variety of attacks that make well of the DS' many features and truly 
 creates a fighting style unique to the player
  - Pop culture breathes life into this game and makes it a true story that players can relate to
 
  
  The bad:
  - The battles can be a little overwhelming at times
  - Everything else can seem overwhelming to the players
  
  The World Ends with You opens with 
 a rather emo-esque young man named Neku who, after shunning most of the world in the opening scene, 
 awakens in the city of Shibuya to find that he can't be seen by anyone. Upon being attacked by 
 frog like beings that are a version of "Noise" Neku partners up with a girl named Shiki and embarks 
 to win "The Game" that they are further trapped in.
  
  Going beyond that spoils the game because every juicy moment of this approximately 15-20 hour game 
 is filled with characterization, story building, and discovery and will leave you guessing who's 
 who and what's what even after the very end. The most important thing though are the characters 
 involved in the game.
  
  The battle system is one of the game's many highlights and is one unlike any before it. While Neku 
 uses various pins to attack on the bottom screen, on the top screen, one of three partners whose 
 presence is determined by what is happening in the story will fight the Noise as well. The pin 
 system for Neku is unique in that there are an abundance of pins that you can use that vary in 
 ability and utilize every bit of the DS' unique aspects including the microphone.
  
  On the top screen, dependent on the story, one of Neku's three partners will attack the Noise using 
 the dpad or abxy buttons dependent on if you're right or left handed. In a DDR type fashion, you 
 can punch in the directions and be lead to either a number, symbol, or card suit dependent on your 
 partner. These three are used in a devastating attack by cleverly matching them up in different 
 ways. While it sounds complicated to be slashing or whatever with Neku while playing DDR with your 
 partner at the same time, it really grows on you. The game even allows an auto-play feature for 
 the top screen so when you stop playing, the computer will take over. Keep in mind though that 
 auto-play plays slower than if you were playing, so there is a reward to playing the top screen 
 yourself.
  
  A typical part of RPGs is that no matter what your partners normally stay with you once they join, 
 or don't permanently leave the story. That isn't the case with this game because in each different 
 section of the game, you'll find yourself scrambling to find a new partner to fight off Noise because 
 of something that may have happened to your old one. This is interesting if you've played many 
 RPGs in the fact that you witness someone who's had a lot of emphasis and character development 
 on them just up and disappear for a long time.
  
  Another great part about this game is the pop-culture references. The game really sucks you in 
 in this sense as you can somewhat see what they're saying when they're talking about looking good 
 in the city, or when Neku is called an emo, or even when they talk about the famous graffiti artist 
 because for most players they've probably seen stuff like that in real life. That's what really 
 breathes life into this game and makes it seem less like a game and more like a story.
  
  The graphics for this game also attribute themselves to the game's overall style. Cutscenes and 
 the other game art seem like a comic book, and the battle scene text is in a graffiti type style.
 
  
  The music is also amazing. There is rap, pop, rock, and so many other types of music present during 
 battle and on the field. The music is also voiced so it is unlike most other video game soundtracks.
 
  
  Overall, The World Ends with You is a must have game for the DS. With something so unique and original 
 to utilize a majority of the DS' features, it truly stands out among other games. If not for the 
 game, get it for the superbly told story that will keep you on edge all the way through. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: StopLookListen
Rating: 8.5
Date: May 1, 2008 12:20 pm PT
Review:  TWEWY is by far one of the most innovative games on the DS. Square delivers a solid action RPG 
 that is strong in nearly all departments. I was quite surprised at its level of depth because I 
 hadn't heard anything about it until it was reviewed on GS.
  The combat is the most notable aspect of the game. The top screen displays one character controlled 
 by the D-pad and face buttons, while the bottom screen displays Neku, who is controlled by the 
 touch screen. Although the control scheme is a bit intimidating at first, it becomes very easy 
 and enjoyable to control after a while. The enemies move and attack on separate screens, but they 
 are the same enemies, so killing one on the bottom screen kills it on the top screen as well. The 
 controls on the top screen are controlled by touching either the d-pad or the face button that 
 corresponds to where the enemy is, if he is to your left than press left or x, to the right you 
 press right or a. The touch screen is the most fun though because you use pins by scratching, swiping, 
 dragging, pressing, or poking at the enemies to unleash attacks. This is a remarkably innovative 
 system that works very well. However, during that later levels when the enemies become harder, 
 I found myself focusing only on the bottom screen and leaving the top screen player to either fend 
 for himself or to just keep pressing random buttons to attack. The game fixes this problem, howver, 
 because if you leave the top player idle for several seconds the game will take over control and 
 let him keep himself alive. 
  The sound sounds very nice for the DS, the combat tunes are very well done and work well during 
 battle. However, the music in the map mode becomes very repetitive and even annoying. For all the 
 effort they put into making the game play so well you'd expect they'd at least put in a few more 
 songs for the map mode, this is a small complaint though when you consider how well done the rest 
 of the game is.
  The graphics are nothing to write home about but then again this IS the DS so its completely reasonable. 
 Im actually glad that they didnt try to bring it into the 3D universe because the majority of the 
 games that do often end up ruining the experience IMO.
  The story is very deep and engrossing and I found myself playing it for hours upon hours just hypnotized 
 by the story mode. But hey, I'm not everyone, and I truly enjoy games with long winded cutscenes 
 like xenosaga, but if thats not your forte then prepared to be turned off. Many of the boss battles 
 take place after long conversations that are meant to bring you into the game, and it works well... the 
 first time, but after that, if you die in the battle, you need to scroll through the entire conversation 
 again until you reach the battle. There's no way to make it run faster or to skip through all while 
 listening to that same map song thats become nearly insufferable by this time. This flaw is eventually 
 fixed though when you receive an item that lets you continue from that battle you died on, and 
 even lets you try it on easy if you want, for those times when you get really frustrated.
  In the end the game is extremely rewarding and definately worth its $40 price tag. If you like 
 RPG's, the DS, or you just like orange spikey hair for some reason or another, this game is a must-have.
 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Silk_Wood
Rating: 9
Date: May 1, 2008 7:51 am PT
Review:  Lately, I haven't been doing much reviews nor been online a lot but, now that i'm back from Sidney, 
 let's get things movin'.
  
  Ok so here we have "The World Ends With You", kindda catchy huh mates'? I think so, anyways, it's 
 made by Square Enix the best DS game maker of all time in my opinion, and its also VERY similar 
 to the Kingdom Hearts/Final Fantasy series, power houses of the company. Your main characters (some 
 act dumb, others can be pleasing to the eye) are all explained well enough with some background 
 info. The story is solid, and this new "tap the d pad to kick butt" or "slash my stylus to destroy" 
 bad guys style of play really does indeed rock out loud mates'. Not only does this game make a 
 statement for Tokyo (being based near the city) , it'll even get your parents to pry the DS off 
 from your hands. This is a game not to miss and if you want more info on it, just read the Gamespot 
 review, I mean, I'm only here to give my take on the game, not do a lenghty "stop paying attention 
 halfway through the paragragh" type of deal. Point is, you want a cool DS game with great artwork, 
 sweet control system, nice touch of the 'real' world fit in, and something to keep you busy until 
 summer, well look no further, Square Enix has once again given birth to a god. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Bio_Spark
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 30, 2008 6:11 pm PT
Review:  "The world ends with you. If you want to enjoy life, expand your world."
  
  So spouts a philosophical coffee shop owner in a speech the game derives it's title from. It's 
 good advice to take to heart, and "The World Ends With You" takes that ideology and runs with it. 
 It's definitely not your typical RPG, in the best way possible.
  
  __STORY__
  The game presents a genuinely interesting story that manges to be dark without crossing into pointless 
 melodrama. It never felt like there was angst just for the sake of angst, something I was quite 
 pleased with. The characters are all interesting too, and with the exception of the main character, 
 all are immediately likable (our hero Neku is an angsty chump, but that clears up after about three 
 hours of game time.) While it's a somewhat dark story, you get the feeling that the game never 
 takes itself too seriously and you'll get a few laughs out of the dialog.
  
  __GRAPHICS__
  The art is very likely to be the first thing you will notice. The simplistic, sort-of-manga, 
 dark outlined characters stand out from the crowd. I generally don't care for Tetsuya Nomura's 
 outlandish character designs, but in the fashion-crazy world of Shibuya, the characters don't just 
 fit in, they almost seem tame compared to some of the citizens wandering the streets.
  
  __SOUND__
  The music is spectacular. The majority of the game littered with high-energy hip-hop, 
 techno, trance, and J-pop, though there some sprinkles of punk, metal and rock. There are even 
 a couple of 8-bit tunes, heavy on the beeps and boops. It all suits the gameplay perfectly, and 
 serves to get you pumped as you tear through the game's (at times, nasty) opposition. It's also 
 incredibly catchy. I was dumbfounded when I found myself humming battle music I couldn't completely 
 understand- I don't even like J-Pop! There are more than 30 of these catchy songs, and all of them 
 can be purchased in-game to listen to at your leisure.
  
  __GAMEPLAY__
  The mechanics are what really make the game special:
  
  Battles are carried out in real time, 
 with no random encounters. With a few exceptions late in the game, you only fight when you want 
 to fight. And you WILL want to fight. Battles are quick, fun, and action-packed. Your available 
 actions in battle depend on the pins you have equipped, somewhat like the Paper Mario games. These 
 range from simple slashes, to teleportation, to summoning meteors, to covering your enemies in 
 barbed wire. Combat itself is very smooth, and flows nicely. It's not unusual to get into a groove 
 and find you've landed a combo with more than 100 hits.
  
  Like in most RPGs, enemies drop money and equipment, but "The World Ends With You" puts a creative 
 spin on it. The game allows you to lower your level your level or fight consecutive battles in 
 exchange for a better drop rate. This risk / reward system adds a whole level of strategy and depth 
 to combat. 
  
  Equipment itself is also interesting. Your characters can eat food to increase their stats, somewhat 
 like River City Ransom. Clothing plays a big role; you can't wear the craziest of fashions if you're 
 not brave enough (bravery is represented as an actual stat that can be increased.) By wearing popular 
 clothing, you receive a stat-boost in battle, and you can make something more popular just by wearing 
 it. The best clothing is often intended for the game's brave and fashionable female, Shiki. Of 
 course, if the boys work on their bravery, there's no reason they can't wear dresses too...
  
  I could go on about the other mechanics: mind reading, thought implantation, reaper challenges, 
 shopper loyalty, and the first genuinely fun mini-game in an RPG in ages, but this review is already 
 getting too long.
  
  __SUMMARY__
  Overall, most people report about 15 hours worth of playtime for the main storyline- I squeezed 
 another five out of that just by cruising around and fighting. There is an addition 10 hours of 
 postgame content, and potentially dozens more if you're an absolute completionist. It's suitably 
 long, but it doesn't feel like it overstays it's welcome with useless side story fluff found in 
 a lot of JRPGs.
  
  In all, The World Ends With You is an amazingly solid game with a lot of style. It's a fun time, 
 plain and simple, and it's one of those rare games that even non-RPG fans can love unconditionally.
 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: BurningCrusadez
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 30, 2008 7:09 am PT
Review:  At first, I thought it was going to be a very confusing game, judging by the pictures but soon after 
 playing i found it was a very different way of RPG fighting and it was easy and innovative. Although 
 Shiki's moves were just like playing Audition on the DS :) ) . You get to be cool teenagers with awesome 
 powers, I think this is the best RPG i've ever played. And, the use of clothes instead of armour, is 
 just plain smart. Imagine, in the real world, wearing different outfits gives you different powers. Instead 
 of swords and all those final fantasy weapons, now there are different kinds of weapons, such as 
 pins or teddy bears. Lol. All those icons at the top right hand corner of the screen while walking 
 around really reminds me of a handphone. How smart :) Monsters do not look like anything you could 
 imagine and they look intimidating and are eye candies. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Nahga
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 29, 2008 7:09 am PT
Review:  I instantly wanted to play this game when I found it was made by the creatrs of "Kingdom hearts", 
 I knew the graphics would be slick and cool whilst keeping the game enjoyable. Sure enough it was, 
 I had no idea what to expect, i always delve into games unprepared - i hate making asumptions it 
 only leads to dissapointment. This game amazed me, the story is mysterious due to the amnesia of 
 the main character but during the game the main character Neku begins to understand what is happening 
 to him and the other "players in te alternate world. What was his entry free to enter the game, 
 can he suceed in his partnership to overcome the reapers?
  
  To match the beautiful art we have soul touching music reflecting the story and giving us a up 
 beat feel. I have almost finished this game within 2 days on normal mode to i wouldn't consider 
 this a hard game, maybe a little easy, however a hard mode can be attatcined and extras also.
 
  
  My own rant about this game is the battling, having to control two people at the same time is not 
 good - you can put the character ont he top screen on auto but it doesn't give you too much control 
 when you do need to focus on a big boss. 
  
  Sqaure Enix have come up with yet again a random game which will surely become a classic - hopefull 
 there will be a sequel with more goodies as I think this game didn't have too much in the extras 
 department and we all LOVE extras. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: djsatan667
Rating: 8
Date: Apr 29, 2008 4:37 am PT
Review:  This game looks phenominal and sounds absolutely amazing, my only true complaint is it seems a 
 little less than sensitive sometimes controlling the gameplay becomes incredibly frustrating at 
 times touching in the wrong areas or trying to move and not quite grabbing your charecter quite 
 right, but it's so creative and pretty you push through it. The visual style is so appealing I'm 
 hoping I can get ahold of an artbook for it which i've never said about a handheld before. All 
 in all a solid purchase and one you will enjoy but be prepared to avoid throwing your DS in frustration 
 from time to time as the controls get a little clunky and unresponsive. All in all is a worthwhile 
 purchase and nice to see a potential new franchise work itself into a world so dominated by Final 
 Fantasy and it's clones. Just go and add it to your collection already :-D 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ShehzadG420
Rating: 9.5
Date: Apr 28, 2008 9:09 pm PT
Review:  The World Ends With You.
  Even the title is catchy, eh?
  So far I've gotten through a good amount of the game. At one point you think the game is finished, 
 and I think even then I would have been ok with it ending because the story seemed to have wrapped 
 up, but no! It just kept on rolling. Very exciting indeed. The game design is very different and 
 a twist to what you'd expect, but Square Enix has and does tend to take this path in their game 
 styles so it's understandable. The game play itself is a little more difficult and does have a 
 bit of a curve to it. The basics are easy to pick up on, but the actual logistics of fighting on 
 two screens can be a little overwhelming at times, especially considering it is an RPG and you 
 do want to level up. You can take the easy route and do AutoPlay on the top screen, but where's 
 the fun in that? Once you get around that curve and get a full grip on how it really works, it'll 
 be so highly addictive it's hard to put down at night and the first thing you want to pick up in 
 the morning. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kkiirraa99
Rating: 9.5
Date: Apr 27, 2008 11:49 pm PT
Review:  Okay this game is Super fun i think it's very fun and highly addicting. let me tell you ignore 
 all those reviews that gave this game a bad rating because they probably have only played the game 
 for like 2 hours because it is really fun.
  
  Okay there is so many good things about this game. I think my favorite is the soundtrack of the 
 game. I found it very catchy and cool it really went well with the whole game. I think the story 
 i very good also because it is pretty odd and new not the same old cliche stuff. The best thing 
 about the game is the battle system it presents a challenge which makes the game fun but it is 
 a little hard at first but luckily to help you adjust to controling the top person they make it 
 so it will just play it'self. The graphics on this game aren't half bad either. There is a multiplayer 
 it's okay not really anything to talk about it's basically the same as Castlevania: PoR WiFi where 
 you have a store and other people can buy stuff, and i don't really care for the tin pin slammer 
 which basically has you flying your pin at somebody elses. What was also really fun was shopping 
 for an outfit i know it sounds stupid but it's kind of fun to custimize your character to your 
 liking and changing the trends and everything.
  
  sadly this game was not perfect there were a couple of minor problems not that much though. One 
 was i found myself not finding a whole lot of new pins for a while but finding alot of the same 
 ones. One thing that alot of people might find boring is there is not a lot of talking in the game 
 but there is a fair amount but i think it helped the game a little it almost made it seem like 
 a mini manga. Another flaw was sometimes pin powers would get mixed up but it was really minor 
 because even if they mixed up it didn't really affect the flow of battle. There also is a down 
 to the pins sometimes there were a bunch of useless pins that almost no one would use. Lastly i 
 believe that the length of this game could have been pushed more or even if they added a feature 
 like in Castlevania: PoR that you could play like a different pair like Beat & rhyme like a kind 
 of side story.
  
  Well that pretty much sums up the game as you can see only very minor problems none of which take 
 away this games fine demure. I would highy recomend this game to anyone you just have to give it 
 a chance. It might seem like there is alot of talk in the beginning and it maybe a little boring 
 an tedious but it's really just there for your benefit it's actually like a tutorial. so give this 
 game a chance. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: xFlcl
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 27, 2008 9:34 pm PT
Review:  So let's start at the beginning...
  
  I don't remember where I saw this, but I heard it somewhere. Square Enix had created a game for 
 the DS.
  
  So I decided to check somethings up on it. Just saw a little thing on game videos, and well saw 
 (kind of) a preview, and felt, "wow, this looks pretty entertaining!"
  
  After reading some reviews when it came out/before, it looked like the game was promising.
  
 
  I thought it was coming out the 21st, (was wrong) so I picked up my copy on the 23rd.
  
  Let's just say, I'm happy I got my money's worth.
  
  I needed a new DS game, since my last 
 one was Phantom Hourglass, and this is just what I needed. The game is just perfect, so let's go 
 on to the review!
  
  Game play;
  So this is what caught my eye at first, the game play was pretty different, having to deal with 
 two screens at once, did seem 'overwhelming' but it came out all right in the end. The pins and 
 powers really do bring out the DS touch screen.
  
  Sounds;
  The music/soundtrack, is really catchy (on my opinion) . They always got me in the right moments, 
 and made me feel the action, made me want to get the soundtrack right away.
  
  Visual;
  I liked the little cut scenes with the voices, those are the moments that I enjoyed other than 
 battling. They were good and all, but some CG could have been cooler, but the manga styled (so 
 called) cut scenes were just enough.
  
  Storyline;
  The story line, kept me going, wanting to find out the truth, the mystery. Everything about made 
 me go on.
  
  Overall;
  Really well done game. I loved every minute of it, and I would call this a perfect DS game. It's 
 highly addictive, and for me it's hard to put down. Which reminds me... I better go play it right 
 now!
  
  
  Other than the fact of there's only one save file allowed. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: vgxtremist
Rating: 9.5
Date: Apr 27, 2008 7:43 pm PT
Review:  I haven't played a game that is this much fun since Elite Beat Agents, and I'm so glad its an original 
 title from Square Enix.
  
  The graphics are superb for a DS game and the game just oozes style. The story is very unique, 
 not one of those typical end-of-the-world games you all know and love from Square, but a more personal 
 game. What surprises me is the intensity of the cutscenes in the game, and I'm not even halfway 
 through the game, but I know it won't let up.
  
  The battling is hectic and challenging at the same time, and there are so many little aspects to 
 the game its actually interesting for me to read the instruction book during breaks!
  
  This is one type of game that comes around not frequently enough. If you are a DS owner, you owe 
 it to yourself to pick this up, plus originality should be rewarded, so get out there and pick 
 this up! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: avaloch
Rating: 9.5
Date: Apr 27, 2008 8:12 am PT
Review:  Basically I had great anticipation and much hopes for "The World Ends With You" since its produced 
 by Square-Enix's top notch game producers. I felt that the game had to either grab me with a transfixing 
 storyline or a interesting gameplay for me to continue to play it.
  
  In totality, this game had both an innovative gameplay as well as an interesting storyline. Since 
 I choose not to give spoilers when I do reviews, the storyline will be minimally touched upon.
 
  
  The gameplay is really interesting in the sense that it can require a lot of attention using the 
 stylus as well as the Directional Pad or the ABXY buttons (for lefties YAY!) . It requires both 
 the top and the bottom screen during battles and each battle is relatively intense.
  
  First and foremost, unlike other games, TWEWY has this interesting "Fashion/Trend" thing going. 
 In other words, different areas in the game have different fashions and trends going on and thus 
 have an effect on the clothes and pins you equip. This will serve to enhance or dampen the abilities. 
 
  
  In addition, I like how the game incorporates food into the gameplay. With a certain amount of 
 "Bytes" allocated for each character per day, you are free to eat food to the limit of bytes (aka 
 bites) . The interesting thing about this is that at 12am (midnight) of your DS clock, the "Bytes" 
 meter automatically resets! Furthermore, to fully digest your food, certain amounts of battles 
 are required.
  
  Another interesting feature is the Tin Pin minigame. It involves your equipped pins and its a game 
 whose objective is to knock your opponent's pins off the board. Each pin in unique and has different 
 abilities attached to it, allowing you to become and impenetrable spikey boulder or to use a hammer 
 to stun your opponent's pin. A truely interesting minigame indeed!
  
  The music is stunning, always suited to the environment. It has both lyrical music and instrumental 
 music. A variety of interesting soundtracks are available for listening and you can collect them 
 through shops in game.
  
  As for the storyline, it has an interesting way of unfolding, instead of directly showing you a 
 scene, a fair amounts of the scenes are played in recollection. In other words, instead of seeing 
 a scene as it happens, you will see it as a recollection of a past event. In totality, the game 
 has a really mysterious feel and it will just suck you right into it.
  
  In summary, this game is worth every single hard saved dollar. Don't just rent it, own it. It has 
 remarkable replayability value and its extremely entertaining. A classic in the making. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: garrettskye
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 26, 2008 10:22 pm PT
Review:  I've played quite a few Square-Enix titles over the years, having played the original Final Fantasy 
 on the NES back in the day, and having just recently started playing the rather... interesting... Final 
 Fantasy X-2. I'm a huge fan of the Kingdom Hearts series. And I believe that this is quite possibly, 
 the best "game" produced by Square-Enix. Ever.
  
  While I haven't yet finished the game, I'm well enough into it to be able to give my impressions 
 of the gameplay. While at first I found it rather intimidating, within a few hours of playing I 
 went from getting E Rankings in every battle, to getting Star Ratings and doing Fusion attacks 
 with ease. The game does a generally good job of easing you into the intricacies of the battle 
 system, but in at least one instance, it does give you access to something that wasn't really explained 
 in the game, but a quick glance through the manual solved that for me.
  
  And just as the pins in this game are the trendy thing to wear around Shibuya, players of this 
 game will find themselves partaking of the hunt-a-thon that is the Pin Collection. They're like 
 Pokemon that don't growl. The pins act as your combat abilities, and level up as you continue to 
 use them. Also, some pins can evolve in a very Pokemon-esque fashion.
  
  As mentioned above, I haven't completed the entire game yet, so it would be rather unfair of me 
 to judge the story. Based on what I have played, the story is very unique, and quite engrossing, 
 and the moment when a certain character dies early on in the game actually made me feel much the 
 same way I felt after watching Sephiroth slay the last Ancient. I don't really know how to explain 
 it, but it really did. I felt sad.
  
  So now that I've professed my love of the game, it's time for me to go and actually finish the 
 entire game. Like I said above, this game is pure handheld nirvana. If you own a DS, and like to 
 play games other than Imagine: Babyz, you owe it to yourself to buy this game and play it. I promise 
 you won't regret a single moment of it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Stubbie1
Rating: 9.5
Date: Apr 26, 2008 7:41 pm PT
Review:  Simply put, this game is amazing! It pushes the envelope for the DS. If you are a fan of Square 
 Enix, there is no reason you shouldn't pick up this game. Wait, let me re-state that, everyone 
 that has a DS should get this game. The story follows 15 year-old Neku Sakuaba and his partner 
 Shiki Misaki as they travel through-out Shibya completing missions for the "Reaper's Game". Without 
 getting to deep in the story, the game lasts for 7 days and each day you are given a mission to 
 complete. If you don't finish the mission in time, the Reapers will come and "erase" you. Thats 
 all i want to say about the story without giving anything away. The combat in this game is fought 
 on two screens at the same time and can be confusing and difficult at first. But after a few hours 
 of playing, it starts to become second nature. The combat on the touch screen consists of a seres 
 of taps, strokes, and sometimes the mic. The combat on the top screen is controlled by taping the 
 d-pad in a direction to attack and perform combos. The game also uses different brands of clothing 
 like armor. Each type of clothing doses a different thing and each section of Shibya has there 
 own popular fashion that gives, or takes, attack bonuses. I should stop wasting your time. GO GET 
 THIS GAME NOW!!!!!!!! Its innovate and just plain fun. I hope Square Enix continues the seres and 
 that they take more chances like this. If there is one problem, I'd say it's a little to sort. 
 But it still is a great game and has quite some replay value. I will tell you again...
  GET THIS GAME NOW!!!!!!!!
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: canzy28192
Rating: 9.5
Date: Apr 25, 2008 7:43 am PT
Review:  i don't speak english as my first language, please forgive my mistakes ;P
  
  Gameplay: 10
  The fighting system is simply the best thing i've ever tried... it's unbelievable...
 
  it's very fast, immersive, innovative and it just sucks you in... the stylus potential is fully 
 exploited... it's awesone, trust me....
  and the powers of the pins are really well done and make you feel powerful XD
  if you're not 
 fighting, there's a large world to be explored...
  last but not least, there's plenty of objects, pins, clothes, foods, etc. you can take from your 
 enemies or buy... really lots of stuff....
  
  Graphics: 9
  Graphics are really cool, too! And with "cool" i mean:
  technically cool: graphical effects during 
 fights are awesome;
  artistically cool: every character is really well done and looks perfect and the images of the 
 cityscapes you smetimes see on one of the two screens are wonderful...
  Another thing i like is cameras on free roam: it's different
  
  Sound: 9
  Sound effects are 
 great and musics are suitable to the game...
  
  Longevity: 10
  you can play this game as much as you want but you'll never get fed up....
  
  The Good:
  
 - Incredibly immersive... you'll spend many hours on it without realizing it...
  - Awesome fights!
  - Beautiful storyline!
  - Great soundtrack
  - Uses all the DS potential!
 
  
  The Bad (as gamespot says)
  - Some pin powers get mixed up in the execution (rarely :P)
  - Only one save game per cartridge 
 :' (
  
  Just buy it.... BUY IT!!!!
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: shua007
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 25, 2008 6:11 am PT
Review:  Original and completely satisfying. This game is a must for rpg fans. 
  
  Graphics - 8.5 Great art throughout, with no complaints
  
  Gameplay - 9.0+ I'm giving this 
 a 9 because initially the combat is difficult. It's completely original in terms that you are fighting 
 on both screens simultaneously. I wasn't good at it at first but that made me want to at least 
 give it a shot before I gave up entirely. NOW... Once I got it down it was pure satisfaction. The 
 combo system is really fun and you'll end up fighting just to fight (which isn't manditory by the 
 way) .
  
  Sound - 10 The killer. I found myself actually singing the songs throughout the day... though I 
 wouldn't admit to it personally. Good voice acting when it's there too. 
  
  Value - 9.5 This is just fun... The combat and storyline are original and top notch. I'll go through 
 the game again easily.
  
  Tilt - 9.5 Seriously pick this up if you are an rpg fan. It should be looked upon by all just for 
 it's originality and some people will argue it's one of the best of the year. Do yourself a favor 
 and pick this up. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: poohbear12
Rating: 5.5
Date: Apr 25, 2008 8:01 am PT
Review:  The Good:
  Great graphics, innovative battle style, a fresh take on RPGs
  
  The Bad:
  The main character is an idiot. The music is jpop. The battles can be aneurism-inducing.
  -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
  
  Maybe I shouldn't be doing this after only playing for two hours, but I'm not sure I have the stomach 
 for more. The thing running through my head the entire time was "Why the hell are people so in 
 love with this game?" I still don't quite understand it, since it is clearly a beat-em-up with 
 a few RPG trappings, and a lot of fake cool and teen angst. About ten minutes in, and I wanted 
 to smack the main character, who, two hours later, was still being a complete twit. Strike one 
 for the game.
  
  Strike two came when I came up against a boss I couldn't beat, and had to try again. And again. 
 And..... One thing I despise in a game: having to repeat missions over and over until the win happens. 
 It's not fun after the fourth or fifth time. If there was a branching set of paths, where a loss 
 means you end up going somewhere else, instead of having to tediously re-load and re-play the same 
 frustrating mission again, it would have been truly innovative. As it is, this is an on-the-rails 
 beat-em-up with upgradeable "weapons" (pins) and armor (clothes) . Again, maybe I haven't given 
 the game enough of a chance, but frankly, I pay money for a game to be entertained, not to be forced 
 to play through until it "gets good".
  
  Strike three comes in the fact that I know that the game mechanic is not going to change much in 
 the rest of the game, and I just don't care enough about the moronic main character to want to 
 shepherd him through the rest of the game. Yes, it is innovative and new, but that doesn't always 
 mean better. Also, given that, as said before, this game is a beat-em-up with upgrades and a modern 
 setting, it isn't all that innovative at all. The hoopla that it is generating is more a testament 
 to just how stale and boring the games have become in the last few years, being driven by corporate 
 expectation rather than game developer ideas.
  
  All I can recommend is that you try it yourself, and maybe let me know where I've gone wrong in 
 this review, because I feel mildly lied to by all the acclamation this game is getting. Wouldn't 
 be the first time. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: able_to_think
Rating: 9.5
Date: Apr 24, 2008 2:46 pm PT
Review:  The World Ends With You is a game by Jupiter the company who made Kingdom Hearts. I have been looking 
 forward to this game ever since it was announced that it was coming stateside and am not disappointed. 
 This game is very entertaining with great production values. I fully recommend The World Ends With 
 You, here's why.
  
  Graphics: The graphics in The World Ends With You are very stylized. They are fun to watch and 
 have good effects during combat. I have nothing to complain about.
  
  Game Play: The game has a weird way of controlling you can control both players at once, but you 
 don't have to and I don't. You can put the player on the top screen on autopilot so you don't have 
 to worry about them. Over all pretty good stuff, so good in fact that I grind even though I don't 
 have to.
  
  Sound: the sound in this game is amazing. The voice acting (what there is of it) is spot on and 
 the music is great. The soundtrack is composed of j-pop and some j-rap. I love the pop but I'm 
 not so big on the rap. Over all though very fun to listen to.
  
  Story: The story is a bit slow to draw you in but when it does it REALLY does. Lets just say the 
 main character may start out as a jerk but half way through the game you'll really like him and 
 loath another character 50 times more then you ever loathed Neku.
  
  Over all I highly recommend The World Ends With You it's a great game and well worth the $40 entry 
 fee. (Play the game and you'll get the joke.) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Kitsukage
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 23, 2008 2:53 pm PT
Review:  Nothing makes a good game like something new. Especially when that 'something new' really makes 
 it work, and adds a whole new level of fun and challenge to it. 'The World Ends With You' does 
 just that, making battle a fun double character, single player free-for-all.
  
  The storyline is quite nice, as well; taking the role of Neku, a young boy who finds himself in 
 a strange world; unable to make recollection of how or why he is even there. Naturally, as the 
 game progresses, you come to understand what this world is, and just why you are there.
  
  The battles are quite innovative; giving you not just a single character to control, but two. At 
 the same time. I know; I thought it was a little confusing to begin with, at first, but going through 
 the game really makes you control the characters as effectively as if you were just using one. 
 Its a concept that has definitely made this game rise, in my opinion.
  
  Another awesome thing to note about this game is the unique method of character abilities being 
 used; converting them to pins; each wielding a different ability to the next, yet all with their 
 uses in the game. An amazing number of combinations can be made, almost giving an endless array 
 of attacks that can be used to defeat your foes and if the need arises, keep yourself from being 
 erased.
  
  One problem I have had with pins is usually the combinations, however, not everyone can get something 
 right, the first time. It is usually best to use pins that don't use the same or similar procedure 
 to activate, as it can sometimes be awkward to activate the one you wish to use; for example, the 
 "Slash enemy" and "Slash Neku" commands can be rather awkward to pair, when at close range, but 
 generally, this is just a minor issue that can easily be handled with careful consideration as 
 to how you plan to fight.
  
  A nice little mini-game also comes into play, later in the game, called "Tin Pin Slammer. This 
 makes use of the pins you have equipped, and acts as like a powered up toppers game, where you 
 are required to knock your opponent out of the area. At first, it can be rather awkward to play, 
 but nonetheless, once you've gotten the hang of it, it can be a rather easy game to play.
  
  I also liked the use of trends; different items have more favour in certain areas, giving them 
 an increase in power, which also includes pins, during battle. The more you battle with certain 
 brands, however, the more 'trendy' that brand will become, and in turn, the greater the bonus for 
 your pins. Keeping an eye on the trends is usually the best way to plan your battles.
  
  The soundtrack to the game is also a great thing about this game. Its actually one of those that 
 I wish I could listen to, both out of the game, and of course, within it. I never get bored of 
 listening to the tracks, and you even gain the ability to change the music that plays in the background, 
 while in the menu, selecting your pins, or changing your clothing.
  
  
  But to conclude this player review, I'd have to say it is definitely a game worth playing; maybe, 
 if you don't happen to have a DS, worth purchasing one for, even. It is really addictive, and can 
 have you playing for hours on end. Well? What are you waiting for? Go get it! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: LotsOfGrenades
Rating: 9.5
Date: Apr 23, 2008 9:04 am PT
Review:  Well I'll be Gosh Darn Tootin! This game, this game!
  
  The World Ends With You is a great game up and down. In this review you will hear so much about 
 the good things of the game, but I will try and hit on the things that were a bit laden.
  
  Synopsis: You are the protagonist named Neku who is from some part of Japan. You suffer from a 
 bit of Amnesia and have a strange talent to control Psyches, which are powers you control via your 
 stylus and variants of strokes to defeat monsters known as Noise. Noise are basically monsters 
 like wolves and frogs. Lame? Think again. You're also followed around by what Weeabo would call 
 a Kawaii pink haired girl who is obsessed about your dark mystery.
  
  Game-Play: 10
  Sound: 9.5
  Visuals: 9.5
  Replay: 9.5
  
  Game-Play: You fight with two and battle as one. 
 That is the name of the game. I play this with my friend actually. I will get into that later. 
 The game starts off with a lengthy tutorial and outrageous graphics and surreal Neo-Tokyo feel. 
 You're a young man named Neku who wears Headphones in which his nickname Phones derives from. You 
 find yourself awoken in a strange place and soon accompanied by a young girl. She teaches you how 
 to use pins [Like those found at trendy markets like Hot Topic] which give you representative powers 
 known as Pyches. An example would be Pyrokinesis, 
  
  The game play gets even more complicated as you can control your top screen while you slash across 
 your bottom screen with your stylus. The top screen is controlled by either your D-Pad or Button 
 pad depending on your Hand-Preference. Using certain combinations of ordered button pressing your 
 partner friend will deliver attacks to the enemies you're fighting on another 'plane'. Complicated? 
 In many ways. The game explains that there is the UG [Underground] and the Real-World. To defeat 
 the Noise you must defeat them in both, so you both fight the same monsters, but not side by side 
 in the corporeal sense.
  
  The storyline is a bit melodramatic, but the simplicity of the emo-boy you control is made better 
 by the surreal use of colors and imagery in the game. The game  right. You're stuck in a game 
 known as the Reaper's Game. Reapers are hipsters with wings and seem a bit immortal. Their job 
 is to destroy the Noise, Players, and not be destroyed. You are a player  but you play their game. 
 The reaper game lasts 7 days in which exist 7 missions. Within these missions are small side quests 
 which allow you to go off on your own, level up, gain gear, and all sorts of things.
  
  Deeper in the misc. parts of the game are foods, cosmetology, and wear. You dress up your characters 
 in faddish gear to gain stats. The crazier the wear the higher your 'Bravery' stat must be. And 
 yes Bravery exists for wearing some of these garments. Sounds lame right? Well it's pretty cool 
 actually, because you don't wield weapons, you're youngsters with unique powers.
  
  Along with the unique powers, like I said, you control them with your stylus. You can control up 
 to 7 psyches at a time. That's right, you don't have to weapon select. You pre-configure your pin 
 deck and go to battle. No button pressing or tapping on icons to select your move, nay, you are 
 in real time combat. You use certain motions with the stylus to deliver ground breaking and breath 
 taking combinations with all your psyches at once!
  
  The game play is innovative in this game and should not be missed.
  
  Sound: The sound is amazing. 
 The sound track, though limited, is very acute in dimensions. Which is good. Obtuse sound would 
 be monotone and blaring. The music actually has simplistic lyrics you can hum or even sing too 
 and it doesn't get too repetitive since your guys talk while in battle and sometimes during dialogue. 
 That's right, finally a game with decent speech on the DS! And it's actually good! You can even 
 collect the sound track in the game. I know! LAME?! But it's not, the music isn't so bad.
  
  Visuals: OH EM GEE, CHRISTY! Yes yes! Why EE Es! Yes! Finally a game that encompasses digital 
 shading, the compromise of CG, Sprites, and Cell Shading. It looks utterly amazing. Combined with 
 over eccentric curves on your characters, making your B-Cup partner having a size 0.3 waist look 
 pretty cool during battle.
  
  The graphics are simply stunning. If only game series like Pokemon would take the hint and up their 
 look a bit. Every character looks different, you can actually remember them by their faces. Each 
 of them have sound bits that make them  them. Like your girl will whimper, scream, and such to 
 get your attention. But that's besides the point, the graphics are amazing for the DS.
  
  Replay: You won't stop playing this, even after you beat it. The game is amazing.
  
  Conclusion: 
 This is the best game on DS right now. I am not a Square-Enix biased person. They make great games 
 and they always make the game field broader and set the bar for others. Thank you.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: mmoroz
Rating: 9.5
Date: Apr 23, 2008 5:53 am PT
Review:  Here's what I like:
  
  1. Game lets you play how *you* like. If you want to make it hard, you can reduce your level and 
 increase difficulty for better drops and more fun. You choose whether to focus on fast reflexes, 
 or on powerful gear, or on strategy.
  
  2. Deep combat system, which forces you to make a lot of choices. If you want to improve your skill, 
 it will take a very long time before you feel you learned everything.
  
  3. RPG part of the game suits my taste. It has good story, and none of the boring RPG elements 
 like grinding, being crazy overpowered due to high level, etc.
  
  4. Lots of unique features that are fun to learn about. Certainly, not a rehash of a standard action 
 rpg formula.
  
  5. Excellent music and overall feel of the game (even though I usually don't like the setting of 
 a modern city) .
  
  Here's what I thought could be done better:
  
  1. Characters are decent, but could be a lot better developed I think. Especailly given that the 
 story is very interesting!
  
  2. Sometimes the battle requires a bit too much button mashing.
  
  3. Very little feedback 
 is given on the most interesting part of the game -- combat. I wish it was easier to tell what 
 caused different status effects, how much each monster hits for and is hit for, etc. Also monster 
 behavior is fun, but again sometimes it's hard to tell what's going on.
  
  Overall, I think it's one of the best DS games ever. I would rank it along with Mario Kart, Advance 
 Wars, etc., and way above FF Crystal Chronicles RoF and all the other FF games that were released 
 on DS so far. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Jacava
Rating: 9.5
Date: Apr 23, 2008 1:06 pm PT
Review:  There aren't many games that bend the convention this much, yet turn out this successful - The 
 World Ends With You for DS is a game that will leave you tingling with delight for a long time 
 to come.
  
  The story of a few teens fighting for their right to exist is somewhat familiar among RPG veterans, 
 but TWEWY takes that notion and twists it again and again, until it's been completely wrung out 
 to dry. There are some fairly morbid and even shocking scenes, but this all adds to the game's 
 already fantastic atmosphere.
  
  The soundtrack is just as addictive, and as varied as the many characters you will meet along your 
 path, ranging from R+B and Rap to Indie and Rock music. What's even better is that you can buy 
 these (master) pieces and play them whenever you like, so even with the wide variation you can still 
 pick out your favourites to listen to.
  
  The graphics are beautifully created, with the all-2D artwork being more effective than what 3D 
 would have done. The look of each character, and the feel of each environment is so engaging, you 
 find yourself lost in a world that, even though based on a real place, is thoroughly unique. Just 
 be sure you don't actually find yourself lost; there is a fair bit of backtracking from realising 
 you went the wrong way, which is the only proper downside I can see. However, some people won't 
 find that a problem.
  
  The gameplay is the star of the show here, and boy, does it shine. While the separate controls 
 for each character are far too simple to include in a game on its own, you begin to think "Dual-screen 
 real-time combat? Are these people on something illegal?" Amazingly, this is far simpler than it 
 sounds, and it's executed brilliantly, no matter how far through the game you are. The feel of 
 each pin's activation feels just right, and eventually you'll know which pin you're using based 
 entirely on how it feels to activate. That said, there are 300-or-so pins, so you'll never run 
 out of new strategies to try. The fact that you can allow the CPU to take control of your partner 
 - so you can concentrate on Neku - means that anyone can play this. There can't have been any veterans 
 of this type of gameplay because it's so innovative, but those who've never even laid eyes on an 
 RPG before can pick up this game and play it through to the end with little hassle. And the best 
 bit? The variable difficulty. To begin with, you'll want to go through the game at your maximum 
 level, just to complete it. After that, though, and you'll want to drop back to level 1 (your pins 
 and threads keep the same power bonuses, so even early bosses can go down in about 4 hits) in order 
 to collect all of the pins and defeat all of the Noise. While everything about this game is phenomenal, 
 it could have sold on gameplay alone, no questions asked.
  
  The minigame, "The Inpincible Tin Pin Slammer", is a light-hearted game compared to the main story, 
 which sees up to 4 players fighting with their pins to knock the other pins off of the table. (and 
 as a game complete bonus, there's an extra chapter which is based entirely on this minigame, so 
 you'd better get good at it early) . While it does have its flaws - like the fact that the computer 
 players can bash at you relentlessly, and to fight back like that you'd have to be an inhumanly 
 good player - it also has its upsides, like the way you use the exact deck you use in battle against 
 the noise to do battle with the other players. That's right, that means ALL of the pins in the 
 main game each have their own Tin Pin statistics used solely for this minigame; and that leads 
 to a different, unpredictable battle every time. That's what a minigame should be like, and Tin 
 Pin Slammer works on that basis very well.
  
  The multiplayer features are pretty scarce this time, but you can play up to 3 others in the aforementioned 
 minigame, and you can also set the game to "Mingle" mode. This works similar to the Rival Radar 
 on Metroid Prime: Hunters, with a few differences. Anyone who also has a copy of the game nearby 
 set to Mingle is added as a friend, and you can then buy stuff from each other's shops. If you 
 encounter someone who has a different game working on wireless, you obtain some PP for your equipped 
 pins, which is a nice bonus. You can then also encounter "Aliens", which I'm not entirely sure 
 if that means non-DS wireless networking, or just complete randomness, but either way, you get 
 even more PP for each one you come across. You can also gain PP for leaving your DS off for up 
 to 7 days, so if you go on holiday for a week, leave your DS behind. When you return, your pins 
 will most likely have levelled up at least twice. Nice.
  
  Well, on the whole, The World Ends With You is already a decent game, with a few things to make 
 it extra tasty. Get your teeth into this, and you'll be hooked from day one. Fantastic in every 
 respect, this is truly an unforgettable experience, and you'll be playing this for well over 100 
 hours to milk it for all it's worth. Four simple words can sum this game up: Oi. You. Buy. NOW. 
 That's how good this game is.
  
  Games like this aren't programmed; they're crafted, and this one was crafted by true artisans. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: zolloz89
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 23, 2008 12:02 am PT
Review:  The World Ends With You is an action RPG brought to you by Square Enix and the team behind Kingdom 
 Hearts: Chain of Memories.
  The game focuses on unwitting hero, Neku Sakabara, on a refreshingly unique quest to figure out 
 just what happened to him and why he can use psychic powers. Along the way, Neku meets with some 
 different characters that are both good and bad, and as per Square Enix's typical RPG formula, 
 there is an epic story filled with a slew of twists and turns that are sure to bring even cold-hearted 
 gamers to down a notch. Neku and three partners are in something called The Reaper's Game, and 
 if they fail to complete a challenge given to them, they will be taken out of existence. 
  During TWEWY, Neku fights some of the most bizarrely designed enemies that have ever existed, such 
 as a shark-like character that devours other enemies to make itself stronger. These creatures, 
 called the Noise, are some of the craziest enemies ever featured in a game, from a demented looking 
 kangaroo, right down to a ferocious bear.
  One of the best things about TWEWY, is its soundtrack. The game boasts a soundtrack that is truly 
 fitting to the setting, modern-day Tokyo. J-pop, hip-hip, and rock tracks perforate the game. Some 
 of the battle themes have vocals, something that is not really seen in RPGs that often.
  There are many things about TWEWY that stand out, one of which is its virtual representation of 
 Shibuya. The game features hundreds of items, each with a brand. The brand is a factor in how the 
 item benefits you. If you wear the wrong brand, then say goodbye to the bonus. The food system 
 is also a very unique aspect of the game; immediate effects are no more. Once you eat a food item, 
 you do not reap the benefits until after you battle and 'digest' the item. The game actually rewards 
 you with an experience boost the longer you leave the game off. Each of your pins, which give characters 
 different powers, can be upgraded this way, although there is a limit to how high the pin level 
 can get through this method.
  The single most important about The World Ends With You is the battle system. It is featured on 
 both screens, with Neku on the bottom, and his current partner on the top screen. The catch: you 
 control both characters simultaneously. Neku is controlled solely by the touch screen, where slashing 
 an enemy will do damage and a certain motion will trigger a special attack. Meanwhile, the D-pad 
 controls the top character, triggering defensive and offensive actions. The game seems confusing 
 on paper, but in practice the system is very fine-tuned. There is a sort of combo system where 
 Neku attacks, then the partner, then Neku, repeat, ultimately delivering damage in higher and higher 
 amounts. The player also can use the pins to execute different attacks and powers. Some require 
 the microphone, while others need the player to scribble and draw shapes on the battlefield.
  Overall, The World Ends With You is the single best game on the DS to date. There are simply too 
 many things about TWEWY to explain. It is a must-buy. With its stunning visuals, gripping story, 
 wacky mechanics, and all around greatness, TWEWY will not be a short lived adventure. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: d_generation69
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 22, 2008 1:08 pm PT
Review:  While many saw this game on the horizon in 2007 for the States, others were already playing this 
 game in Japanese. The first reviews that came out praised the game's great gameplay, style, and 
 especially its soundtrack. Now that the English version is here, we take an in-depth look at Square 
 Enix's latest RPG for the DS.
  
  Graphics: They are very well elaborated and appealing. Everything is so precise, you'll go crazy 
 looking for those tiny details. The first impression I got of the graphics is something very laid 
 back and graffiti themed, which a touch of gangster writing. Don't get me wrong - Square Enix have 
 pulled something very original here, and it's a plus. Pseudo 3D looks great here, which I cannot 
 give less than 10/10 for the originality.
  
  Sound: My, we have had some games with simply awesome soundtracks on the DS, and this has got to 
 be one of the best, if not the best, soundtracks I have EVER listened to. It fits the game's theme 
 perfectly, and is neither intrusive to the gameplay nor shallow so that you notice it. Takeharu 
 Ishimoto composed a masterpiece, and it deserves to be recognized as so. 10/10, without any doubt 
 whatsoever.
  
  Gameplay: Well, the story is very deep and an key element to the game. Once again, SE are worthy 
 of a praise, as its very original and interesting. 
  
  You are a boy called Neku, and you team up with other Players to play a 7 week long game by the 
 Reapers. Each day, the mission they give you is different, and you (or other Players) must succeed 
 to go on. Otherwise, you are erased and lose the opportunity to get your life back (yes, you are 
 dead and to have another shot at life, you have to play the Reapers' game) . 
  
  Enough of the story, lets move on to the key aspects of the game. The battle mode, while having 
 a bit of a steep learning curve (because you'll have a battle on the top and one on the bottom 
 simultaneously) , so you'll have to look at your HP bar to make sure your partner isn't suffering, 
 otherwise you risk being erased. It will beep when your HP is low, though. 
  
  Also, you earn pins by battling and doing other quests to aid you in battle. Some pins have the 
 ability to evolve, and so they need one of the 3 kinds of Pin Points to do so. The BPP (represented 
 in blue in your Pin PP bar) are the Battle Pin Points, and are gained by battling and erasing Noise 
 (those are your enemies) . SDPP (Shutdown PP, represented in green) are gained when you turn off 
 your DS and go do other stuff. Finally, MPP (Mingle PP, in red) are obtained by Mingling with other 
 people. 
  
  You can also buy clothes and other equipment in shops, do quests, and a huge variety of other things, 
 provided you have money. I'll give a 10/10.
  
  Replay Value: With the tons of features that the game stuffs you with at the beginning, and the 
 amount of pins available to train, you'll perhaps find yourself overloaded. However, the game (and 
 I) advise you to take things with ease, because you aren't obliged to learn everything at once. 
 Take one step at a time, and you'll see yourself as a Pin master in no time! 
  
  It also offers tons of things to do, so you'll never get bored. Mingle Mode is very interesting; 
 however, even if you don't have a partner to mingle with and need to evolve your pins using so, 
 the game generates aliens (virtual characters) that award you 100 MPP each. The icing at the top 
 of the cake would be global WiFi, but that isn't present. If it would have been, this category 
 would have deserved a 10. 9.5/10, still.
  
  To sum it all up, the combination of a Japanese styled RPG, with a truly brilliant soundtrack, 
 appealing graphics, and excellent gameplay is called The World Ends With You.
  
  It's certainly the hype of the moment and will be remembered as one of the best games on the DS. 
 Possibly one of the weirdest (in a good way) RPGs ever made, but truly a must to play for any fan. 
 It's so complete in every way, you'll love it!
  
  Absolutely recommended! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: KingOfGames4
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 22, 2008 8:10 am PT
Review:  The World Ends With You is the English version of the game called It's a Wonderful World (Japanese 
 version) for NIntendo DS. I believe the game's finest platform. History is very good, and is counting 
 on a little bit. The Gameplay is excellent, you use the Stilus to attack the Enemy, making several 
 types of combos and special. The Graph is like, is not to be perfect, but to be jogavel. The Music 
 are great and like the environment, war, exploitation and history. In the game you little by little, 
 is gaining new clothes, Pin's (Pin are the powers you earn during the game that may serve to restore 
 life, gralhar money, attacking ...) , completing quests and there vai. A battle against the enemies 
 are very good and mecania between the two character works very well. (You control the character 
 of low and also from the top if you want) , and also the missions during the games are well surroundings. 
 Depending on how you play the game you can make short = /
  Recommended for NDS is that!
  
  TOTAL:
   Graphics: 9.0
   Gameplay: 10
   Sound: 9.0
   History: 9.5
   Difficulty: 
 10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kakashi_17
Rating: 9.5
Date: Apr 22, 2008 4:48 am PT
Review:  "The World Ends With You" - another terrific game by square enix.. once i got my hands on it, i 
 can't stop at all.. it's juz too addictive.. gameplay is totally wonderful.. graphics really attract 
 me totally.. makes me wanna just complete the game immediately.. the only thing that is missing 
 is wifi play.. which should be very nice.. imagine two person playing together.. one controlling 
 the top player and the other controlling the touch screen character.. the combo will be just too 
 good to be true.. i especially like the music during the gameplay.. it's just too cool.. hopefully 
 they can come up with a soundtrack or something like that.. i also like the main screen where you 
 can see the time while playing.. although i keep forgeting the time when i start playing.. haha.. 
 a definite must buy for DS.. highly recommended!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: NewDon
Rating: 9.5
Date: Apr 21, 2008 4:48 pm PT
Review:  Square Enix has been synonymous with the Final Fantasy and Valkyrie series for so long that I believed 
 that their forte, lay with guiding young children through battles in a foreign land using swords, 
 elves, bows and arrows. Despite my penchant for the works of Tolkien, I have never found this concept 
 to be appealing. 
  
  Maybe it's because Baldur's Gate ruined me with it's rich storytelling, beautiful (for the time) 
 graphics and 'adult' action rpg style, that I never found final fantasy i/ii/iii appealing, even 
 though I'm a fan of Cloud and Sephiroth from VII. Maybe VII appealed to me more, because it interspersed 
 modern technology with a timeless, almost ethereal background.
  
  "The World Ends with You" sees the famed Square Enix, try something different. Take the tried and 
 tested formula of having kids save the world (or in this case just their own lives) but transplant 
 it to modern day Tokyo. Keep the 'troubled' protagonist, Neku, suddenly thrown into a new world 
 initially viewed with disbelief, skepticism and finally reluctant acceptance.
  
  Bring in a team dynamic, use both screens of the DS to battle it out, co-ordinating with the arrow 
 keys and the stylus. Use pins imbibed with powers (don't roll your eyes just yet) to fight demonic 
 forces, while leveling up with fashion accessories. Repackaging the tried and tested formula, Square 
 Enix comes up with an intriguing new franchise, which they can expound on with a rich back story. 
 At times the game reminds me of the anime 'Death Note', because of the tone, the Reapers and Neku's 
 general demeanor. The story has an interesting hook from frame one, and the use of music in-game 
 cell phone and clock makes for an incredibly entertaining experience on the DS. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bksonic123
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 14, 2008 10:53 am PT
Review:  The Good:
  
  The original story has so many twists and turns. The gamplay is very innovative. Sprites and backgrounds 
 look beautiful.
  
  The Bad:
  
  The controls for both screens can be frustrating sometimes. Not much to do after completing the 
 game. Not much to do after completing it. 
  
  I started playing this game since it was released and I first thought, 'This game is going to be 
 boring.' But I have never been more wrong before. The game is a bit twitchy at the beginning but 
 as you progress through the game, it gets more and more addictive. You play as a gopher called 
 Neku who wakes up in the middle of Shibuya and has no idea how or why he is here. Soon he discovers 
 that he is playing the Reaper's game for 7 days and if he fails then he'll no longer exist.
  
  The gameplay takes place on both screens. The bottom screen has you fighting as Neku by using 
 the stylus, much like The Legend of Zelda. The top screen has you fighting as his partner by using 
 the control pad.
  
  All in all I think The World Ends with you (formally known as It's a Wonderful World) is a worthwhile 
 game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: menon9
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 21, 2008 12:35 am PT
Review:  the world ends with you is a great game with a story line that is easy to keep up with and a gameplay 
 that is easy to learn. The graphics are also great. but the only annoying thing about the game 
 is that there is a bit to much talking at the beginning of the game when you really want to get 
 started but later on in the game the talking goes down a bit. i mainly like the idea on how to 
 attack by getting pins that have powers to attack teh enemie and how if you ork together with you 
 partner you can get special attacks. another great thing about this game is that you can adjst 
 a heap of things that affect how you play. like you can change the level that you are so that you 
 would have less health but when you defeat noise you have more chance of getting pins. (by the way 
 noise are the monsters that you have to beat) . also you can change how long it takes for your partner 
 to go to auto-play and what your difficulty is. another great thing is that if you keep on wearing 
 a clothes or pin brand when fighting noise you can make the brand popular in that area which means 
 that you can get up to 50% extra attack. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kiruyama
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 23, 2007 2:31 pm PT
Review:  Japan, Japan. A place where death gods come to play, and hackeneyed JRPGs come to stay. Thankfully, 
 IAWW only follows the latter statement. If you've tired of the endless onslaught of JRPGs hitting 
 the DS, or are just looking for a great handheld action game, It's a Wonderful World will not dissapoint.
 
  
  First things first. When you're looking to import any game in a language you're not fluent or familiar 
 with, you're always wondering if you'll be able to play it. For most games, tough, it isn't a problem, 
 but the genre of RPGs, being very text-heavy, is one of the most in-import-friendly pile to choose 
 from. Unfortunately, IAWW is an RPG, and it does have alot of text, mainly to describe equipment, 
 items, and progress the story. That isn't to say it isn't playable. Square Enix is a popular company, 
 no doubt, and with that popularity comes a rabid fanbase, and so, with enough research, you'll 
 be able to learn the basics of the game with little problem, from equipment to story progression 
 to item effects. 
  
  One of the most interesting aspects of IAWW is it's visual style. When the game was first announced 
 as being made by the Kingdom Hearts: COM team, many were turned off by the idea of another 2D game, 
 because of the puzzling hate towards their previous game. Make no mistake, IAWW is 2D, using sprites 
 for characters and attacks. But the characters moving in the "overworld" of Tokyo have 4 animations 
 - Up, Down, Left, and Right - and so, it does give the 'illusion' of being a 3D game. What helps 
 this is the superb quality of the sprites, especially in battles. Not only are the character models 
 well-animated, but the attacks are amazingly well-drawn and fluid. It gives a sort of 'modern-day 
 Okami' vibe (minus the wolf) when unleashing certain attacks, because of their great art direction 
 and animation. The backdrops of these battles are also very well done. There is a strange 'twisting' 
 of the background which gives the effect of the camera looking up onto a huge building or what 
 have you in the background, which is very nostalgic to gamers of the 16-bit era, where bosses were 
 often portrayed as huge beasts in the background, towering over the player. Another nice presentation 
 aspect of its visual style is the game's cutscenes. These are all done via moving images and are 
 all very fluid with the game's way of presenting the story.
  
  One of the other areas in IAWW that will keep you interested is its soundtrack. The game uses many 
 MP3s and sounds that really add to the atmosphere of you being in the bustling city of Tokyo with 
 your headphones on. There is alot of J-pop in the game, and even though I am not a fan of pop, 
 much less j-pop, I enjoyed the music since it matched up with the game's setting so well. There 
 are a few sound bits here and there in some of the story sequences, and they help develop some 
 of the characters' reactions and such. Sadly, full voice over isn't here, but the game takes up 
 a 128 MB cart, the largest available for the time of its release. 
  
  However, all previously mentioned points pale in comparison to IAWW's most compelling area - the 
 gameplay. Utilizing the 'slide-cross battle system', you will burn, electrocute, and throw your 
 enemies using the stylus. If that was all there was to it, though, then IAWW would just be a stylish 
 watered-down version of Ninja Gaiden. That is where the top screen comes into play. The super geniuses 
 over at Squeenix decided to allow control of two players at a time, one with the stylus, the other 
 with the D-Pad. If this sounds hectic, that's because it is. You share the same enemies but on 
 different screens. This leads to some interesting strategies, especially on boss battles. Also 
 noteworthy is the fact both characters share the same health bar, which means you can never just 
 leave one character to die while keeping up with your main one. Neku, the main character, uses 
 badges to use skills, such as pyrokinesis, telekinesis, and lightning. You can upgrade your abilities 
 by buying new clothes and items from shops, which all the more adds to the atmosphere of being 
 in Tokyo.
  
  All in all, IAWW is not for everyone. The story is not easily understood unless you read up on 
 it. Also, Neku's movement during battle sequences can be frustrating, since you must first place 
 your stylus directly on him before dragging it to where you want him to go. There is also quite 
 a steep learning curve, as after the 'first day' (The game consists of 7) , you're great friend 
 the health bar is introduced, and you will quickly realize how precious health can drain away so 
 fast. Still, with that said, IAWW succeeds in what it was meant to be. There has never been such 
 an awkward mix of quirky, stylish, and challenging gameplay as It's a Wonderful World. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: chaosmakerX
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 10, 2007 12:53 pm PT
Review:  The Good:
  Awsome music, great graphics, has a unique battle system that is executed very well, good amount 
 of replay value, cool characters, a great storyline that keeps you guessing at every turn.
  
  The Bad: 
  A little too liniar until you beat the game, you will only be using a handful 
 of badges throughout the entire game.
  
  
  Its a Wonderful World (or Subarashiki Kono Sekai) is a action RPG for the Nintendo DS. It is a 
 great game that will draw you in to playing for hours with its unique combat system, great music, 
 and a storyline that will jeep you guessing at every turn. Its a Wonderful World takes place in 
 modern day Shibuya, a part of Tokyo an is about a 15 year-old boy names Neku who suddenly wakes 
 up in the middle of a cross-walk without any memory of why he was there or how he got there. He 
 will soon start to see people around him dissapear and weird monsters start to attack him. He than 
 meets a girl named Shiki and she says he has to become parterners with him if he didn't want to 
 disappear. Not knowing what was going on, Neku does what he told her to. He soon starts to be able 
 to use abilities known as "phychics" though certain badges. 
  
  In this game you will go into battle with a "Noise" which is a black monster like thing, usually 
 in the shape or form of an animal. During a battle, Neku will be on the bottom screen and your 
 partner at that point will be on the top screen. You will controll Neku with the stylus and your 
 partner with the D-pad or ABXY buttons. This may sound complicaded but it actually works like a 
 charm. Neku will use his badges to attack the enemies. Each badge has a certain way of working 
 such as touching, slashing, rubbing, and circling your target with the stylus. There are also badges 
 wich involve blowing or yelling into the mic. Although thoughout the game you will only be using 
 a handful of badges anyway because the badge balancing wasn't done very well. Your partner on the 
 top screen will be sort of a combo fighting. You can't move your partner instead you use the D-pad 
 (or ABXY buttons) to attack in the direction you want them to. Now if this sounds like a chore, 
 if you don't press anything for a while your partner will go on auto and you can focus more on 
 fighting with Neku. The top screen and botom screen share the same enemies so using both Neku and 
 his Partner wisely will give you a huge advantage during a battle. This game isn't very difficult 
 but if you want a challenge you can switch it up to hard mode in which your enemies do more damage 
 and you do less. On the other hand if you are stuck on a strong boss you can swich the difficulty 
 level down to easy which increases the damage you do and halfs the damages the enemies do. The 
 difficulty level can be changed anytime other than cutsceens and druing battle so you can adjust 
 the level to your likings.
  
  The game moves forward in a day-to-day format in wich you have a certain "assingment" you must 
 do to prevent from dissapearing. This makes the gameplay somewhat liniar but the great pacing within 
 the game will make up for it. Like I said before, the story in this game is great. It is brilliantly 
 written with great diologue between the nicley developed characters. A great thing about the characters 
 is that they are very human (even the non-human characters) and they all have personallities you 
 can relate to your self in some way.
  
  Now the soundtrack in the game is absolutly awsome. It features a techno style music simular to 
 that of the Jet Set Radio series, which works in perfectly with the theme of the game. The game 
 also features a fun minigame known as Marble Slash, in which you fling your marble with the stylus 
 at your opponents trying to knock them off the area.
  
  Overall, Its a Wonderful World is a great expiriance that streams with originallity and creative 
 game design. If you have a DS, can read Japanese, and like a good RPG on the go, this game is for 
 you. Check it out! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ultima_weapon05
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 17, 2007 3:48 am PT
Review:  As always, read the summary at the end if it's too long to read.
  
  Square Enix have shown quite a lot of interest in the DS recently, so when I heard that the makers 
 of Kingdom Hearts were making a game for the DS, I couldn't help but check it out. That game is 
 Subarashiki Kono Sekai: Its a Wonderful World, a fast-paced action RPG set in the trendy Shibuya 
 District in Japan.
  
  --- GAMEPLAY ---
  
  To date, there hasn't been a more exciting battle system on the DS. The whole game revolves around 
 the touch screen, which in turn makes the batle system shine. You'll be playing as two characters 
 for most of the game - Neku and Shiki, both of which have been forced to play a mysterious game, 
 which would threaten their existence if they do not complete it within a 7 day time limit. The 
 game involves battling enemies known as Noise. By tapping into random people's minds, Neku can 
 see the Noise hovering around. You can use the touch screen to select any Noise you want, doing 
 so will take you to another screen for fighting. You can also select more than one Noise on the 
 screen at once to chain them. This will increase the drop rate of items, but you'll have to take 
 on up to 4 battles in a row with no time to recover.
  
  The battle system is very interesting and certainly stands out as being one of the best on the 
 DS to date. The battles are controlled almost entirely via the touch screen and the D-Pad, but 
 later other functions are introduced (such as blowing into the microphone) .
  
  Neku will fight on the bottom screen, while Shiki will fight on the top screen. Both of you will 
 be fighting the same enemies, so if Shiki defeats an enemy, the enemy will vanish on Neku's screen 
 too. You'll take on the challenging job of controlling both characters at the same time. While 
 Shiki doesn't move around the screen, you'll have to input button combinations for her to attack. 
 The enemies will move from one side of the screen to the other so you'll have to keep an eye out 
 with what side they're on.
  
  Neku on the other hand can move anywhere on the screen using the touch screen. By equipping badges 
 found in the game, you can fully customize what attacks Neku has. Each badge has a different effect 
 or purpose, for example, there is a badge that summons flames wherever you touch. Badges run out 
 of energy eventually and need to reboot , so you'll have to make sure you don't run out of attacks, 
 because Neku will be left wide open to enemy attacks while you wait for the badges to recharge. 
 There are so many different touch screen commands for the badges. One attack might be triggered 
 by doing a swiping action on the touch screen, while another may involve you tapping the screen 
 repeatedly to fire at an enemy from long range. Once an enemy is defeated you will get experience. 
 After getting enough experience from defeating Noise, Neku and Shiki will level up and become stronger.
 
  
  Once all of the Noise have been erased the battle will end. You will be given a rank depending 
 on how well you performed. You will also get something called BP. BP acts as experience for badges. 
 Eventually badges will level up and perhaps even evolve into a new badge if special conditions 
 are met. Once a badge has reached it's max level it is mastered .
  
  What I like most about the game though is how flexible you can be with the character customization. 
 If the game's too easy for you, put your character all the way back to Level 1. There are also 
 4 modes of difficulty to choose from.
  
  Considering the game is set in Shibuya, a lot of the game revolves around shopping and fashion. 
 There are loads of shops you'll find as you play the game, each selling different clothes, food 
 etc. Clothing will affect your attack, defense or HP. Clothing can also have an ability that will 
 benefit you in certain ways. There are also special quest items in the shops that can be obtained 
 by collecting specifed items. With loads of clothes to choose from, the game just adds to the customization 
 of each character.
  
  Also, be warned - the game is text heavy. There'a a lot of talking in the game.
  
  --- GRAPHICS 
 ---
  
  The presentation of this game is stunning. It doesn't matter if the graphics are 2D, because the 
 game is full of life. Even though there's so much going on during battles, the game never suffers 
 from frame rate issues. Even when you're out of battle and exploring Shibuya, there are literally 
 hundreds of people walking about. Even then, the game doesn't have any problems with frame rate.
 
  
  --- SOUND ---
  
  It's interesting to see that the game has a full soundtrack, mostly with vocals. There's also a 
 bit of voice acting here and there.
  
  I can't really complain about the sounds either, it just seems like they've put so much effort 
 into it.
  
  --- VALUE ---
  
  One problem with the game is that it's quite short. You could probably complete it in a few days 
 if you tried hard enough. You can always go through the game again on a harder difficulty, but 
 it might not have a replay value for some gamers.
  
  Either way, there's a lot to do. Loads of badges and clothes to collect, so it could keep you busy 
 for a while.
  
  Overall, it's great to see a game like this on the DS. The game has a style of it's own, which 
 really shows as you play through it. Perhaps it will be released overseas, but if not I strongly 
 recommend you import it. It's one of the best DS games out so far. I'm going to give it a 9.0.
 
  
  SUMMARY:
  
  Good
  - Fantastic battle system
  - Makes full use of the touch screen
  - A lot of effort has been put into presentation and sound.
 
  
  Bad
  - Quite short
  - Some bosses are too easy 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
