-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Thrillville: Off the Rails
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/ds/strategy/thrillvilleofftherails/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 You can build your own parks and go on the rides.
 The air hockey, minigolf, and skee ball minigames are really good.
 Placing rides is a snap, thanks to the touch-screen controls.
 Lighthearted 3D graphics and carnival noise convey the right atmosphere.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 Money and guest sentiment aren't really factors.
 Fewer park layout options and ride parts than the console versions.
 Coasters are prefab except for a few interchangeable parts .
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Nov 30, 2007
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 6.5
Critic Score: 4.9, 7 Review (s)
User Score: 5.8, 80 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: LucasArts
Developer: DC Studios
Genre: Strategy
Date: Oct 9, 2007
ESRB: Everyone

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Most of the micromanagement from the console versions is gone, but laying out parks and interacting 
 with attractions is still fun. 

  Unlike its console counterparts, Thrillville: Off the Rails for the Nintendo DS isn't really a 
 theme park management simulation. Instead, it's more of a role-playing game with park design aspects, 
 minigames, and some story all mixed together. While that's not necessarily a bad thing, the lack 
 of in-depth features may limit how much time you actually invest in the game, especially when you 
 discover that no skill is required to keep a park running.  

  The DS version retains the basic structure of its console cousins. You play the part of a theme 
 park chain operator and go around managing six different parks. Each park starts out bare, with 
 only a couple of basic attractions. Your task is to make each park successful by placing food stalls 
 and attractions on the building plots within the park, taking care to talk to guests, as well as 
 use their desires to guide your building efforts. Every park has a number of goals to fulfill that 
 unlock additional rides and upgrades. There's also an underlying story that constantly has you 
 talking to evil clowns and competing against them in minigames.  

           Once you place a ride, you can climb aboard and go for a spin.      

  Park layout, 
 coaster design, and money management are major aspects in the console versions of the Thrillville 
 series. Here, the parks are prefabricated and contain a limited number of building plots. There's 
 a diverse assortment of rides, stalls, and coasters to pick from; however, you have very little 
 control over what your coasters look like, apart from the ability to place different loops in certain 
 hot spots. Money management has been eliminated almost entirely. It costs money to build rides 
 and hire staff, but your earning rate never goes down. If you don't have enough cash to build the 
 coaster of your dreams, just wait and your money count will be ample enough in a minute or two. 

  Laying out a park is a straightforward process. Using the touch screen, you just tap the plot you 
 want to build on, select the build option, and select the ride you want to place there. Once the 
 ride is built, you can tap it again to bring up a menu that allows you to upgrade it or make repairs. 

  Running your park is a breeze. Staffers don't have a recurring wage; instead, they're bought once. 
 Guests will complain if rides break down or if you didn't build enough bathrooms, but they won't 
 actually leave the park or stop paying for rides. Completing the various goals and story missions 
 associated with each park does take a bit of time, but only insofar as you'll sometimes have to 
 talk to a person multiple times before you choose the correct order of chat options or finally 
 beat them at a minigame.  

  While you don't have to worry too much about managing the parks you build, you can at least interact 
 with your creations in a number of fun ways. If you tap an attraction and select the ride icon, 
 your onscreen avatar will climb the steps to go for a spin. The different prize booths scattered 
 around the park are actually minigames in which you can participate. There are only seven of them, 
 but they are excellent renditions of such carnival games as skee ball, air hockey, and minigolf. 
 You can compete against the computer at varying levels to win prizes or use the DS download play 
 option to take on your friends. When you want to repair a ride or clean up trash in the park, you'll 
 have to complete slide-puzzle and trash-collecting minigames that use the touch screen to accomplish 
 these tasks.  

           Each park has a different theme. If fantasy and Old West don't grab you, try a pirate 
 theme.      

  When you go on a ride in the console renditions of Thrillville, you see every twist and turn through 
 your character's eyes, thanks to the first-person viewpoint that kicks in during those scenarios. 
 By contrast, the Nintendo DS version sticks to the same isometric viewpoint throughout the ride. 
 Watching your character get pulled and thrown is still amusing, but the shift from a first-person 
 to a distant third-person vantage point definitely sucks some of the thrill away. Otherwise, the 
 overall presentation is about what you'd want from a game that tries to replicate the atmosphere 
 of a theme park. The squat characters are cute, the rides look goofy in motion, and the technical 
 quality of the 3D graphics is generally pretty good. Meanwhile, the peppy music and recorded amusement 
 park sounds provide a fitting auditory backdrop.  

  Because there are only six different parks and the overall selection of design options is limited, 
 the Nintendo DS rendition of Thrillville: Off the Rails doesn't have the same staying power as 
 the console versions of the game. Nevertheless, you can still have quite a bit of fun building 
 some unique parks with the options the DS game gives you, and you're liable to spend a fair amount 
 of time with whatever minigames tickle your fancy. It all depends on what you're looking for: If 
 you're looking for an intricate theme park simulation that's heavy on micromanagement, this probably 
 isn't the game for you. However, if you just want to quickly build some parks, go on some rides, 
 and play some minigames, then you'll be satisfied.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (3 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: sjesseph
Rating: 5
Date: Dec 21, 2007 9:34 pm PT
Review:  I have this game for the WII and also on the PS2 so I thought I would try it on the DS as well. 
 The game Play is pretty much the same. You clean up and build rides for the park. They also have 
 mini games you can play as well. I am not sure what it was but it just seemed like there was something 
 about this game that was lacking. The Graphics were just ok and the sound was good but it just 
 wasn't for me. My kids have played the game and liked it but said that parts of the game could 
 be a little hard. I guess I was thinking it would be more like rollor coster Tycoon or something. 
 Who knows maybe it will be something others would like. I say if you are not sure about this game 
 then take the time to rent it first and if you like it you can buy it and if not it only cost you 
 a few bucks. Although I did not really care for this game I do know others that did so rent it 
 first! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Violetto
Rating: 7.5
Date: Dec 1, 2007 6:48 am PT
Review:  Thrillville: Off the Rails is a game where you create, run and play in your own theme park. There 
 are 5 parks in the game and to advance from one to the next you must complete missions - these 
 are quite easy initially (talking to a certain amount of guests, riding a certain amount of rides, 
 getting a certain score in a minigame, upgrading a certain amount of rides) but they get more challenging 
 throughout. There is also a storyline throughout the game, which is basically that a rival theme 
 park company is trying to destroy your own - it is quite farfetched but funny and includes a lot 
 of visual character speech.
  
  This game is very different to "Rollercoaster Tycoon" for the PC and "Theme Park" for the DS, whereas 
 those games were focused on the business management; Thrillville is focused on actually playing 
 and having fun, like you have a real portable theme park. This means that you will spend a lot 
 of time walking around your park playing minigames, there is virtually a minigame for everything 
 you do - for training up staff, fixing attractions, cleaning attractions. I read somewhere that 
 there was supposed to be 34 minigames, however I've been playing for 5 days and I've still only 
 encountered about 12 - which is a huge dissapointment as the minigames are the best part of the 
 game. The minigames have difficulty levels (Easy, Medium, Hard and Prestige) , you can win prizes 
 from getting high scores and there is a high score table where you can enter your name - this is 
 useful if you want to challenge friends! The minigames themselves are very fun, my favourites are 
 one where you have to put a golf ball into a hole, one where you have to throw darts at balloons 
 to pop them, and one where you have to throw a basketball into a hoop - others include an air hockey 
 game and a colour memory game. All the minigames take advantage of the touch screen which almost 
 makes up for the poorer graphics than that of the PSP version.
  
  Building your parks is very limited, there are only small plots of buildable area spread throughout 
 the park, so you have to choose which attractions you want in each park carefully. You can also 
 place public toilets and food stores to keep your guests happy. There are dozens of different attractions 
 which you unlock as you advance through the game, you can even ride them all with your guests which 
 makes for interesting viewing but IS a bit pointless and watching some will probably make you very 
 dizzy! The roller coaster attractions are built in a whole separate section of your park, building 
 them is quite fun as it takes advantage of the touch screen - you must draw the shape you want 
 your roller coaster track to go in. Although it is still limited to only a few shapes and only 
 about 4 sections of the track can be changed. There are quite a few different roller coaster types 
 to choose from - inverted, wooden, steel, water and more can be unlocked. Riding the roller coasters 
 is fun but there is no 1st person view!
  
  Managing your park is very easy in comparison to games like Roller coaster Tycoon, this is probably 
 so you have time to relax and have fun playing the games and the story. Your guests are hardly 
 ever upset even if you have few toilets or food stores, you can talk to them for suggestions on 
 what to change about your park, but most of this is obvious and can't be changed until more things 
 are unlocked. You can also challenge your guests to random minigames to make them happy.
  
  As mentioned before, the business side is not very detailed; you can hire up to 5 builders, groundskeepers 
 and entertainers per park whom then can be trained up. You can set the price for entry to each 
 attraction, however there is only 3 options (Cheap, Average, Expensive) . You can also upgrade your 
 attractions 2 or 3 times to make them more popular. Finally you can win trophies for achieving 
 goals (Happy visitors for x minutes, no broken rides for x minutes, total play time of x minutes) .
 
  
  Unfortunately the game does feel like a lot is missing, you can't do half the things that you can 
 do on the console versions i. e. you can't decorate your park and there are a lot less minigames. 
 And the graphics are a lot worse; everything looks nice but its more more cartoony and pixelated 
 than on the console versions, so you can't fully appreciate your park or the attractions. However 
 the game does the best it can considering the DS' capabilities.
  I've heard people say pretty bad things about this game, but I still think it is very good, however 
 I would definately recommend anyone to buy the console version (XBOX360, Wii, PS2) if they have 
 a console. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: footgal
Rating: 8.5
Date: Oct 16, 2007 12:04 am PT
Review:  At first, I thought this game is like a kids' game but I'm wrong.. it's really addictive! It's slightly 
 different from the PC game Theme Park. Thrillville has already some rides built for you when you 
 first start the game. Besides building your own theme park and customise the roller coaster rides, 
 you can also play the mini games like basket ball hoops, air hockey, hit-a-wombat... and many others 
 more! those games which you can find in arcades... after completing each park's mission, you can 
 go on to buildng other parks... It's endless fun! Hey, can the game companies create a theme hospital 
 DS game? should be quite fun! =) 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
