-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Tiger Woods PGA Tour
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/ds/sports/tigerwoodspgatourgolfworkingtitle/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 Good use of the touchscreen.
 Nice 3D graphics.
 Considerable single-player value.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 Lackluster sound.
 Uninteresting multiplayer.
 Half-hearted short game.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Dec 17, 2004
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 7.3
Critic Score: 6.5, 23 Review (s)
User Score: 7.7, 447 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: EA Sports
Genre: Golf Sim
Date: Dec 14, 2004
ESRB: Everyone

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Tiger Woods takes good advantage of the capabilities of the DS, and it's easily the most technically 
 accomplished handheld golf game to date. 

  Golf is a game almost perfectly suited for a handheld experience. You can play a hole in less than 
 a minute, it doesn't require you to react to events in real time, and the pacing goes no faster 
 than you allow it. These qualities make Tiger Woods PGA Tour inherently one of the better sports 
 games to grace the DS yet, and its use of some of the system-specific functionality makes for a 
 unique experience. However, this is still Tiger Woods, and the game will have a good, familiar 
 feel for longtime fans.  

          Tiger's feeling a little touchy on the DS.     

  Tiger Woods PGA Tour doesn't offer an incredible breadth of gameplay options, but it's enough. 
 The main draw is the legend tour, where you play as a custom avatar in a series of multiday tournaments, 
 as well as one-on-one matches against real-life pros like Retief Goosen, Vijay Singh, and, eventually, 
 Tiger himself. There are dozens of different challenges in the legends tour, and it will take you 
 a good while to work your way through all of them. The game's character customization is somewhat 
 limited from an aesthetic perspective, but you still have nine different attribute categories that 
 determine how well you'll perform out on the links. Any prize money you win during the legend tour 
 can be used to buy more attribute points. Playing through the legend tour will unlock courses and 
 pros for use in the quick play mode, which is good if you're just looking for some quick golf without 
 a lengthy time commitment.  

  Tiger Woods also features Wi-Fi multiplayer for up to four people. You can choose between match, 
 stroke, and skins games, and you can choose to play the full 18 holes, the front or back nine, 
 three random holes, or a custom set of holes of your choice. Once a game is started, all the players 
 go at the same time, which means no waiting for your turn, but it also limits your interaction 
 with the other players. The multiplayer works well enough, but it's just not that big of a selling 
 point.  

  Most of the actual content is pretty standard Tiger Woods fare, but it's the control mechanics 
 that set this version apart from other Tiger Woods games. When you're lining up your shots, you're 
 given a 2D overhead view of the course on the lower screen, and you can adjust your aim using either 
 the D pad or the stylus. We found that, when on the fairway, the stylus was more responsive. But, 
 when lining up a putt, the stylus control felt a little too touchy, and instead the D pad allowed 
 for greater accuracy.  

  Once you've lined up your shot, the lower screen will present you with a set of meters. The main 
 swing meter is hook-shaped, and its different segments will determine the quality of your swing. 
 Drawing the stylus down the right-hand side of the swing meter will determine how much power your 
 swing has. Start from the top of the meter, and you'll go full bore; start in the middle, and only 
 50 percent of your full potential will be put into the swing. Once you hit the turn at the bottom 
 of the swing meter, you'll draw the stylus back up the screen, and this will determine how straight 
 your shot is. There's also a bar on the far right that you can rub quickly to add some extra boost 
 to your shot before you swing. It's not a revolutionary thing, but it lends a nice tactile edge 
 to the action. And, if nothing else, it makes good use of the touch screen. You can affect the 
 spin of the ball while it's in the air by dragging the stylus over the ball on the lower screen 
 in the desired direction, and the more you do it the greater the spin is, though there's no good 
 graphical cue to let you know just how much spin you've put on the ball.  

  Unfortunately, all of these unique mechanics fall by the wayside once you get to the short game. 
 The game doesn't give you any means to determine the contours of the green, and you'll have to 
 rely entirely on your caddy tips for figuring out where you should aim your shot. Once it's lined 
 up, you just hit the putt icon, and the rest happens automatically. While the game on the fairway 
 is good fun, the putting just feels really halfhearted.  

  Tiger Woods PGA Tour looks about as good as it plays -- which is to say that it's generally pretty 
 proficient, but there are portions that are a little awkward and feel somewhat unfinished. While 
 the bottom screen is all meters and overhead maps, the top screen shows the action in full 3D, 
 and it does a pretty good job. The course textures aren't amazing, but it looks good enough that 
 the real-life courses in the game are still recognizable. For example, the first time the game 
 does a flyover of the first hole at Pebble Beach, you'll know exactly where you are. The polygonal 
 player models are just a little bit on the chunky side, but their swing animations are smooth and 
 natural enough to keep this from being too much of a distraction. Oddly, though, all of the incidental 
 animation -- reacting to a shot or walking away from a hole -- looks really choppy and stuttery.  

 
          The touch-screen controls are good off the tee, but the short game is disappointing.  
    

  The sound in Tiger Woods PGA Tour is pretty spare by comparison. There are a few environmental 
 sounds, such as the waves breaking and gulls cawing at Pebble Beach, but they all sound really 
 mechanical and tinny. The same can be said for the swing and crowd noises, which don't have enough 
 variety and just end up sounding canned. There's a little bit of music at the menu screens, but 
 it's all just bad MIDI tunes, and on the whole, you can kill the sound in Tiger Woods PGA Tour 
 and not miss out on much.  

  Tiger Woods PGA Tour isn't going to convert anyone who has avoided golf games up till now, but 
 the game does take good advantage of the capabilities of the DS. It has its rough edges, but still 
 manages to come out as a pretty solid game of golf.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (15 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: Sovvtis
Rating: 8
Date: Feb 11, 2008 2:45 pm PT
Review:  This game provides lots of jobs to do on the touch screen. For example swinging your club, the 
 main job. If you do not like the touch screen when golfing, you can just use the regular double 
 or triple tap with the A button.
  
  The visual for the DS is splendid, pushed the graphics to the limit. I have great fun with this 
 game.
  
  You can enhance your character's equipment, such as drivers, irons, putter, gloves and more to 
 increase your statistics.
  
  You can enter challenges and tournaments to win lots of cash to enhance your equipment.
  
  
 Multiplayer with this game is also very fun, challenging your friends.
  
  Personally I'm not a big fan of golfing games, but this game I really enjoyed.
  
  This game 
 is great and I recommend it to all people who like golf, and would like one on a hand held system! 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lilhawkkid182
Rating: 8.3
Date: Jun 18, 2007 6:44 pm PT
Review:  Tiger Woods PGS Tour is Tiger Woods PGA Tour 2005 thrown over onto the DS. The game came out around 
 the time of the DS launch and it wasn't received all that well. I thought that this game was a 
 great game. It brought all my favorite elements of Tiger Woods from the consoles and I really enjoyed 
 this game. The graphics may not be the best ever but other than that this is a fun DS that takes 
 full advantage of the touchscreen features. Some might argue that Tiger Woods PGA Tour on the DS 
 is one of the ugliest games that they have ever played on the DS, and though that may in fact be 
 true the graphics are not to the point where you cannot figure out what is going on. The ball is 
 easy to find and the environments do have things like houses in the background and things like 
 that, that add to the feeling of playing a console version of Tiger Woods. Control wise this game 
 controls well. You use the stylus to control the power of your swing and how straight it is. If 
 you are used to the controls of the consoles than this will take some getting used to, but once 
 you master it you soon realize that there was no other way that they could have had the controls 
 be. The controls in this game are pretty good once you get used to them. The multiplayer is here 
 as well, so you can play with your friends who also own a Nintendo DS. Anyway I have no complaints 
 here and the multiplayer in this game is pretty fun if you know people with the handheld as well. 
 The sound in this game is on par (no pun intended) with what you would expect from a golf game 
 on the DS. They are not the greatest that you will find in a DS title and it doesn't feature the 
 one music track that Madden 2005 had. Overall Tiger Woods PGA Tour DS is a fun game and should 
 not be missed if you own a DS and are a fan of golf, and now you can finally take it on the go 
 with in the form of a fun game (other than Mario Golf that is) . The fact that you can just randomly 
 turn the game off and have the game waiting on the hole you were on when you shut it off without 
 having to save just makes the title feel even more portable. It is the perfect game to have whether 
 you are playing for ten minutes or an hour Tiger Woods PGA Tour DS is the way to go. Pros: + Great 
 swing control + Great portable feeling + Can play game for any lengths + Lengthy career mode + 
 If your friends want to play multiplayer is really fun Cons: - Graphics could be better -  and 
 so could the sound 
::::::

::::::
UserName: NgpcmasteR
Rating: 7.3
Date: Jan 18, 2007 5:57 pm PT
Review:  If you like golf games, this is the game for you. Of course, Tiger Woods PGA is really the only 
 golf game, so it ends up competing with past years' games rather than other brands. The game is 
 definitely not as good as the next year's game will be, because there are no licenced brands (you 
 cant really customize your character) , there are many bugs, and a lack of many professional players 
 and courses limits the game's playability. However, the game redeems itself because of the integration 
 of the touch screen controls. The swinging system takes a bit of practice to get used to, but is 
 very realistic and allows you to put spin on the ball. You do not need to choose clubs before you 
 swing, but for veteran players, this is a drawback. The Pocket Caddy feature lets you choose clubs 
 (sort of) but restricts choosing to certain types of shot, which is bad because it sometimes chooses 
 the wrong type of shot. The Pocket Caddy also helps you putt correctly, but your DS will sometimes 
 get choppy/freezy while reading the green.
  
  There is a tournament game mode that takes you on tours through 3 difficulties, and each one is 
 different. When you win these (or play a lot of practice matches) you earn money with which you 
 can buy stat upgrades for your player, but you cant but new gear, and there is no internet mode. 
 However, you can play in ad-hoc (local) multiplayer with up to 3 other people.
  
  Although this golf game isn't a hole in one, it is definitely on par. If you take this series (Tiger 
 Woods) less seriously, or give it a little more of a chance because it is on the DS, you will be 
 pleasantly surpised. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: northtenn
Rating: 5
Date: Jan 5, 2007 5:02 pm PT
Review:  I had high hopes for Tiger Woods for the DS. I really did. I love the series on Xbox and I didn't 
 expect it to be perfect. But I at least expected it to be playable! The instruction manual is a 
 joke (no surprise from an EA sports title) and their is no practice mode. If you want to try out 
 some different ideas with your swing (rhythm, speed, distance) you have to play at least 3 holes! 
 Argh.
  I knew that their won't be a in depth create a player mode, but I did expect that their would be 
 more than a few hair styles and headgear. Argh.
  I didn't think I would be able to get different types of clubs as on the consoles, but is it too 
 much to ask to be able to chose which 14 clubs you want in your bag? Argh.
  I guess the one positive is that their is finally a Tiger Woods that is challenging. Unfortunately, 
 it is too challenging too quickly. After an over an hour of playing I got stuck playing the just 
 the 5th Legend Challenge because I was a mixture to: too bad, too unlucky, and just too under skilled 
 to beat a challenge. Now I am forced to play throwaway rounds to get some cheap cash or keep hoping 
 that Justin Rose stops making 50 footers. Argh. And seriously, I thought this was Tiger Woods PGA 
 Tour. What happened to the PGA season?!? I am not talking about 30+ tournaments. But please. How 
 about a dozen to 20. Argh.
  Overall. I give it an Argh. Another DS title that I get with hopes of filling some free time and 
 I want to eject before the new game smell is gone. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: KenSmith
Rating: 8
Date: Dec 14, 2006 10:55 am PT
Review:  Let me start out by saying that this is not the best Tiger Woods game out there. It is however 
 the best Tiger Woods game on the DS, because it's the only one. I actually enjoy playing this game, 
 it is an entirely different experience on th DS. The swing system isn't as good as it could have 
 been, but definitely innovative. It has a fair amount of courses, and players to choose from, and 
 will satisfy any gamer that enjoys golf. The create a character system wasn't as good as explained 
 on the box, but is a major step up for handhelds, other than Tiger Woods for the PSP. I hope EA 
 puts out another TW game soon, I think we have all waited long enough. With a few minor tweaks, 
 and maybe some more character options and courses, this game would be excellent. If you love golf, 
 pick this game up, you wont be disappointed. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Lennex2
Rating: 7.7
Date: Jul 12, 2006 8:21 pm PT
Review:  Having been playing the TW franchise on PC for the last two installments I had high hopes for a 
 mobile version of the game. The new interface and stroke mechanics really intrigued me, and are 
 actually the main reason I'm still playing this game.
  
  The graphics are decent (yet outdated) for a DS titile. The customization options are not as big 
 as one would expect, and make it tricky to actually make a golfer that looks half decent. 
  
  The manual is garbage, and pretty much useless, the in game tutorials give you more infomation 
 on how to get through than the manual does.
  
  Putting is difficult at best, and would really improve if the game would have added a way to change 
 the power of your putt.
  
  The lack of decent sound samples is highly disapointing... In fact I found it more plesant to play 
 with the volume off. 
  
  Overall it's stil the fun and addicting gameplay I've learned to love on the PC. Aside from the 
 small and irittating quirks, this is the best way to bring golf with you when your not on the greens 
 or without your PC or console version. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gothgod
Rating: 7.8
Date: May 16, 2006 6:11 pm PT
Review:  Although a little hard at first this game is extremely addictive. The graphics aren't very good 
 but they don't have to be it's a golf game. The controls are hard to get use too. Every swing you 
 take maybe a slice or 300 yard shot. The sound is pretty good, its got some good music and the 
 sound of the ball being it is beautiful. The legends are hard at first but you can save each hole 
 so you have infinite retries. The game is pretty cheap if you get it used so overall its an OK 
 buy. If you really want a golf game get the PS2 game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ozland
Rating: 7.8
Date: Feb 19, 2006 3:55 am PT
Review:  I admit, at first i didn't thought i would play so much on this one, but after playing couple of 
 tracks i cannot stop playing. The game has a lot of things to mess with, its starts with the player 
 costumization, player attribute upgrades and all the playing modes.
  
  The customization part is very nice, you can changes the player clothes, skin, hair style, add 
 ons and stuff, the thing here is that although you can customize your player, there are little 
 items in each costumize category.
  
  The graphics is good, its full 3D and the tracks terrain look good, there are some glitches here 
 and there, but overall its a discent 3D look.
  
  There are a lot of things you can do in this title, you can play in various modes, in these modes 
 you choose the player you will compite against and the type of mach you will play. You can play 
 in the legend mode (career) , there you will need to unlock all the ledgent tournaments.
  
  The down side for this title is the sound...., the sound track is awful, too much ambient for me..
 
  
  One thing i think EA should have added to this game is player ranking, i think it would be great 
 to rank your player in an over all golf players ranking and progress on that during your games.
 
  
  This game can last for hours and hours, and with the amount of matches types and the ledgent mode 
 you will not get tired of this one so fast... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: murraylemmon
Rating: 9.6
Date: Jan 7, 2006 8:40 am PT
Review:  Tiger woods PGA tour is a great game. But for the DS i say that it isnt as good. It is much better 
 graphics on the Ps2 thats all. DS has good graphics with some games but today it just seems like 
 Tiger Woods isnt one of the games that has good graphics when used with the nintendo DS. Its fun 
 and interesting. I especially like the swing motion. You get to use ur club like in real life but..... with 
 ur fingertips! I recommend this game to any buyser willing to spend their money on a DS game. Oh 
 yeh..... I wish they called it tiger woods pga tour 2005 or 2004 or something (whenever it was released) 
 instead of just tiger woods pga tour. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Cool_Grant
Rating: 7.3
Date: Nov 13, 2005 1:30 pm PT
Review:  Tiger Woods has finally hit the DS, and i must say it is very fun.
  The graphics are very well done. While it may be blocky from time to time, it gets the job done.
 
  The gameplay is very good. You use the stylus for everything. To put, to swing, and just about 
 everything, and it is very smooth.
  The sound is alright also. Theres sound for when you hit the ball, the ball hitting the ground, 
 sand, and trees. 
  Once you finish the game, the only thing you can do is start over, or play multiplayer. The multiplayer 
 is good, but it doesn't feel like your playing with someone else.
  There is a very big bug and if you havn'y ound it now, then don't read ahead. On the last hole 
 if you save and quit, it will end the round an dgive you money for the next few holes. But it is 
 a very fun game of golf you can enjoy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mik19
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jun 25, 2005 4:48 pm PT
Review:  This game is awesome best in the whole series. You use the touch screen cabillities alot. You use 
 it to select were you want to put or hit. You use it to select. You can also use it to pick how 
 hard u want to hit the ball. This game has immense graphics. The Pocket Caddy was a good idea too. 
 There wasn't a good selection of clothes for your golfer but i still enjoyed it. There was only 
 one problem though. The game was too hard. (Unless u use the Save atlast hole cheat.) Which i use 
 alot. The Sound was great too. Good clear, clapping, hitting, and shouting sounds. I would of rated 
 the sound 9 if it wasn't for the lame soundtraks that EA gives u everytime. If you feel like u 
 need a good game to keep u company a whole vacation. This is it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DSfanatic24
Rating: 7.7
Date: Mar 30, 2005 8:07 pm PT
Review:  This is an OK golf game and is good if you need a golf game for DS. The touch screen could of been 
 used a little better but overall they did a good job on the swing and putting of the touch screen. 
 The game looks pretty good for the first 3d golf game on a handheld and the courses look great. 
 The only thing that could of been better is that whenever you would just barely clear water by 
 like 3 feet it would say OUT OF BOUNDS i dont know if this was just for my game but i found it 
 annoying. The putting is where this game really suffers. The putting is so vague that many times 
 you find yourself guessing. Also when you make it to the Legend tour the Caddy Tips are outrageous. 
 You could be a couple feet to the hole and you would have to put the target behind you it went 
 so downhill yet there is no hill at all. And sometimes there isnt even no caddy tips at all even 
 when you are in easy range. For such a good job they did at the other parts of the game this part 
 really dropped the ball. The sound is much the same, very few noises. There will be the occasional 
 bird noise and wave when your near the ocean but very lacking. This game is mediocre but if you 
 are a golf fan and have a DS pick it up otherwise you can do without it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Metroidfan6
Rating: 8
Date: Feb 23, 2005 2:40 am PT
Review:  
  If you are a big fan of the Tiger Woods games then you are going to love the DS version. If you 
 don't like Tiger Woods this version probably won't convert you. There's really nothing new or particularly 
 inovative about this game but it is quite impressive how close they were able to emulate to the 
 current console versions. 
  
  This DS game make excellent use of the touch screen and can only really be played with the stylus. 
 The system of dragging the stylus across a V shape for the backswing is very intuitive and seems 
 deeper and more accurate than using the controller on the console versions. The graphics are also 
 quite good and as usual in a Tiger game the courses are detailed and beautiful and very accurate 
 to their real life counterparts. The create a player mode is the best I have ever seen on a handheld 
 and I was able to create a golfer that looked almost like me although don't expect the deepness 
 of the console versions. 
  
  As excellent as this game is, I can't help but feel that it wasn't fully realized and was rushed 
 to the market. For example, I've played for about 4 hours now and I've had a couple of freeze crashes. 
 The good news is that the game automaticaly saves after each hole so a crash will not hurt your 
 game all that much, but is still quite irritating. The short game feels unfinished as well. It's 
 really not that difficult to master the putt because they included a grid and tell you in the instructions 
 that each grid is 2 feet. But on some more difficult putts the comuter can't calculate and gives 
 you no tip. And no tip means you are going to miss the putt because there is really no other way 
 to read the green besides guessing. Also the A. I. has a difficult time with complex putts as the 
 framerate will slow way down as the computer tries to calculate the putt. Another slight irritation 
 is that the game won't give you any indication of how long your drive is. My only other complaint 
 is the lack of variety in the game. The game has six courses which is quite good for a handheld 
 but the only modes are quick play for a round and the legend mode where you play the legends in 
 a round for unlockables and money to boost up your created player. Where's all the fun target modes 
 and speed golf from the console versions? 
  
  Overall I really love this game and I am quite addicted to it. But I can't give it too high a score 
 because of the bugs. I'm willing to bet the DS version next year will be even better. 
  
  8 out of 10 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: SlayrUK
Rating: 7.8
Date: Jan 31, 2005 11:59 pm PT
Review:  I must say, I was pretty sceptical about buying this game. I have heard about it being buggy and 
 graphicall poor and all reviews say that the putting lets the game down.
  Even so, I bought the game. Its well presented (despite the horrific MIDI file music) and the menus 
 are easy to navigate using the stylus. Players can create their own golfer and take them through 
 legend mode or just play a single round. Options for single rounds include skins, match play, stroke 
 play, 18 holes, 9 holes, random 3 or custom and you can also choose course and who to play agaisnt. 
 (up to 4 CPU players, which makes for some awesome and very close match play rounds!)
  
  The graphics are impressive. Although a bit rought, i think they look nice and move well and when 
 you unlock courses like the Japanese ones you will notice the cool style bridges, buildings and 
 tress - and this is nice. I love the way you can see the next hole to play from the hole before 
 sometimes - this makes it feel more like a big course than 18 seperate holes!!
  
  Swinging is great and the stylus control is very easy to use. Putting is also fun and unlike the 
 reviews, its good. Each grid square is 2ft by 2ft and so using the caddy tip you must work out 
 where to aim - its clever and it works well.
  
  I haven't had chance to try multiplayer yet unfortunately...
  
  Overall its a fun game with 
 impressive visuals and I certainly enjoy picking up and playing it for a while. Its great for short 
 bursts but also rewarding should you wish to play through the legends mode. Worth a look for most 
 people - for golf game fans, worth a purchase! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: e_boulanger
Rating: 5.8
Date: Dec 31, 2004 8:44 pm PT
Review:  Tiger Wood for Nintendo DS looks like it was developped in a hurry. The graphics are not the best 
 that you have seen for a golf game. You can often see the vertices of the triangles making the 
 3D images. Textures are blocky. Even a PlayStation One game looks better.
  
  As for gameplay, well beside the stylus input that is fun to use, a lot of thing are unfinished. 
 On the green, you have no reference to help you judge the green. You have to trust the caddy advice. 
 And if the ball is too far from the cup, the caddy advice becomes unavailable, leaving you with 
 nothing to help you make your put.
  
  The automatic tap-in are not 100% sure. It happens a lot of time that the automatic tap-in missed 
 the shot, resulting in a bogey instead of a par.
  
  When you are near the green, sometime the game does not allow you to change the type of shot you 
 want. Sometimes I would have wished to use a 50% full swing instead of a chip, but the game does 
 not allow it.
  
  It would have been nice to have a ZIP function, to accelerate gameplay, especially when the CPU 
 is playing and you have to wait for your next shot.
  
  Maybe the next version will be better.
  
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
