-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Tiger Woods PGA Tour 08
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/ds/sports/tigerwoodspgatour08/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 The touch-screen swing controls are easy to figure out.
 Plenty of play modes for brief or extended play sessions.
 Eight authentic courses that look great.
 Online multiplayer works like it should, and offline multi requires only one cartridge.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 The graphics won't blow you away, and the audio is almost nonexistent.
 Putting is a pain.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Sep 21, 2007
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 8
Critic Score: 8.2, 9 Review (s)
User Score: 7.8, 68 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: EA Sports
Genre: Golf Sim
Date: Aug 28, 2007
ESRB: Everyone

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Don't let the understated presentation fool you: Tiger Woods PGA Tour 08 is a great portable golf 
 game. 

  Armchair golfers have grown accustomed to getting yearly updates of the Tiger Woods series on consoles, 
 but Nintendo DS owners had to wait nearly three years for their latest Tiger fix. However, that 
 long wait was worth it, because Tiger Woods PGA Tour 08 surpasses its predecessor in every possible 
 way. All of the play options you could want are here, including offline and online multiplayer. 
 The new touch-screen swing controls are intuitive and engaging, and though the overall presentation 
 is a touch plain, the onscreen depiction of the various professional golfers and PGA Tour courses 
 is remarkably realistic.  

  An abundance of play modes let you get in a few quick swings or spend your whole afternoon on the 
 green. You can practice specific holes, go through a full round on any of the eight included PGA 
 courses, test your skills in dozens of golf-inspired minigames (called Tiger Challenges) , or take 
 advantage of the built-in memory to gradually work through an entire season. The more you play, 
 the more you'll find yourself bouncing between the different Tiger challenges and PGA events to 
 earn the money necessary to buy into individual contests and to purchase new clothes and better 
 equipment for your custom golfer. Stroke, match, skins, Stableford, and shootout-style configurations 
 are available for both solo and local multiplayer. Match play under the "one ball" option is especially 
 fun because you and a friend have to take alternate shots using the same ball. Sadly, the online 
 component drops match play, but it does allow head-to-head competitions in all of the other configurations. 

  Wisely, the development team threw out the trace-based shooting mechanic from the previous Tiger 
 Woods game and implemented a more intuitive drag-and-flick mechanic for this latest installment. 
 After selecting a shot type and club from the touch screen, you simply drag the stylus downward 
 on the touch screen to initiate your backswing, and then pull it upward to strike the ball. You 
 can take a brief pause between the backswing and downswing to charge power into the shot, but the 
 overall shot strength and distance is mainly determined by how quickly you draw upward on the touch 
 screen. Dragging in a straight line will result in a straight drive, and angling your stroke will 
 cause the ball to veer to the left or right. Once the ball is in flight, you can put frontspin 
 or backspin on the ball by rapidly drawing upward or downward strokes on the touch screen. As you 
 can see, every aspect of the shot is handled with the touch screen. By and large, this drag-and-flick 
 mechanic mimics the act of swinging a club really well. However, if you prefer the classic button-based 
 tap-and-release mechanic, you can choose that control option from the settings menu.  

  The putting controls take time to master, and you'll probably gnash your teeth the first few times 
 you're asked to sink the ball from the green. Instead of flicking the stylus, all you have to do 
 is position a target marker to set the power and angle of your shot, and then tap to make contact 
 with the ball. Unfortunately, that's easier said than done, given that it isn't immediately obvious 
 how power translates into distance. Likewise, changes in elevation can have a major impact on how 
 far the ball travels. Just like in real golf, you'll need to make a few crummy putts to get a feel 
 for the process.  

  Apart from putting, most shots are actually easy to get a feel for. You'll get a good idea of the 
 course layout from the flyover view that's shown on the upper screen, and the behind-the-golfer 
 view on the lower screen provides ample cues for the angle you need to try and for any trees you 
 need to watch out for. Other useful information, such as overall distance, wind speed, and caddy 
 hints, is shown onscreen or available from the pause menu.  

  Seeing the golfers go through their fluid, motion-captured swings is a treat, and the 3D representations 
 of St. Andrews, Pebble Beach, and the other PGA courses look nice, for the most part. The grass 
 patterns and shading are very lifelike, and all of the recognizable terrain features are where 
 they're supposed to be. However, the golfers have only a few canned walk-ups and celebratory actions, 
 and there isn't much going on out on the course. For example, you won't see any spectators, birds, 
 or visible signs of the weather. The graphics also look blocky when the camera pulls in too close 
 to the course, although it mercifully tends to remain at a flattering height most of the time. 
 Still, the visuals at least get the job done, which can't be said for the audio. You'll hear the 
 appropriate ping and clunk noises, as you'd expect, but the rest of the audio consists of occasional 
 applause, some birds squawking, and a whole mess of silence.  

  Golf isn't exactly a visceral sport, so the understated presentation honestly isn't a major issue. 
 What matters is that the controls are easy to get the hang of, the portrayal of golf is realistic, 
 there are plenty of play modes to keep you occupied, and the multiplayer aspects work like they're 
 supposed to. You also need only a single cartridge to get a local multiplayer game going, which 
 is nice because you don't have to ply 30 dollars away from your friends just to get them to play. 
 Anyone DS owner with even a passing interest in golf owes it to themselves to check out Tiger Woods 
 PGA Tour 08.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (2 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: RetroGamer34233
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jan 6, 2009 7:58 pm PT
Review:  I was quite a bit skeptical about trying a golf game on the DS but was somehow drawn to this one. 
 And believe me, you won't be disappointed.
  
  Graphics: The courses are beautifully rendered. The golfers (both male and female) aren't bad looking 
 either, but they're also nothing to write home about. 
  
  Sound: Everything you'd hear on a golf course can be heard here. From the "swiping" sound of your 
 swing to the "ping" from hitting the pin to the crowd, it's all here. Very well-done, too.
  
  Controls: Using either the face buttons or touch pad work well. It just depends on your personal 
 preference. I've had no trouble using either configuration.
  
  Gameplay: Just like real golf, I suck at this game. It's fun to play, but it's also hard. Maybe 
 it's just me. You can customize your player, which is a cool idea. However, there must not be many 
 others who own this game because I can NEVER find an online opponent to play against.
  
  Overall, this game is solid, more solid than you might expect on the DS. There are multiple play 
 modes, and you have to earn enough money in other events to participate on the PGA Tour, which 
 adds lots of depth to the game. The DS version also features numerous golfers currently on the 
 PGA and LPGA tours. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ahappyfool
Rating: 7
Date: Aug 31, 2007 7:43 pm PT
Review:  first and foremost, golf should be playing in the real outdoors on overpriced landscapes and obnoxious 
 expensive vistas that would be better suited to providing low income housing for needed families.
 
  
  and then there is the DS version of golf..
  
  the most annoying aspect of the 2007 version of this franchise was that stupid touch swish movement 
 you had to make on the touch screen in order to drive the ball (and even putt) . it was a dumb design 
 and i'm glad you don't have to use it in the 2008 version. you have an option for 2 and three button 
 accuracy/power drives and putting. putting is a little more difficult to master as the view of 
 the green is not as good as the 2007 version. and if your a metric person, good luck with the inches 
 and feet that the caddy helper hints to you during the putting.
  
  the fact that there is a well functioning multiplayer is very nice. most of my enjoyment with this 
 game has come from playing people on wifi.
  
  and an added tiger challenge is fun at times, but can get a little boring after awhile. but its 
 purpose is to have you master the controls quicker i guess.
  
  the graphics for the courses (old and the new) has improved and the dual screen viewpoints during 
 a drive or putt is enjoyable and nice to see on the DS. they finally realized that our wonderful 
 female gamer friends may want to play, and added top ranked LPGA characters to the mix. that annika 
 is a tough one to beat when she's on her game!
  
  the early going in fun, as you qualify for each PGA tour tournamnet. some courses are unnecessarily 
 tough, where others offer a nice distraction.
  
  this game is good enough to distract you for awhiile.. but like it's 2007 counterpart.. wait until 
 it goes down in price before you tee off. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
