-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Time Hollow
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/ds/adventure/timehollow/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 Digging holes in time is a great concept.
 Vivid artwork makes great use of both screens .
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 The overly simple gameplay is not engaging.
 Restrictively linear structure makes you go through pointless steps.
 Frequent lack of clear direction leaves you to wander .
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Oct  6, 2008
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 5.5
Critic Score: 7.0, 21 Review (s)
User Score: 8.1, 199 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Konami
Developer: Tenky
Genre: Adventure
Date: Sep 23, 2008
ESRB: Teen

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
There's a cool time-bending story to this adventure, but the simplistic gameplay saps much of the 
 fun. 

  Think of all the cool stuff you could do with a pen that was capable of opening a portal to the 
 past. Would you write a note telling yourself what the Lotto numbers were this week? Warn yourself 
 away from that disastrous blind date you went on? Send yourself the most hotly anticipated video 
 games years before they hit shelves? Just such a time-ripping device is at the heart of the DS 
 adventure Time Hollow, and it's a great concept around which to build a game for Nintendo's handheld. 
 Unfortunately, that concept isn't enough to sustain this otherwise simplistic story-driven adventure. 

           Creating holes in the fabric of time with the hollow pen is the highlight of Time Hollow. 

  You play as Ethan Kairos, a high school student with a seemingly ordinary existence. Like most 
 families, his isn't without its problems; his cheapskate uncle frequently comes around to beg Ethan's 
 dad for money, and what's worse, no matter how many times Ethan yells at his mom about it, she 
 just never seasons her cooking enough! But on his 17th birthday, everything changes. Ethan wakes 
 up to find that he has been transported into a world in which his parents disappeared 12 years 
 ago. Only Ethan remembers living with them until the previous day; as far as everyone else is concerned, 
 Ethan's uncle has taken care of him ever since his parents vanished. As if this wasn't odd enough, 
 Ethan also finds a mysterious device called the hollow pen along with a note explaining that it's 
 been passed down in his family for generations. As Ethan tries to come to grips with this new reality, 
 time keeps shifting. And each time it shifts, it leaves Ethan with a few images in his head of 
 memories from the new reality, which are memories of experiences he never had. Ethan soon realizes 
 that, with the hollow pen, he can open holes in time and set right in the past things that are 
 wrong in the present. All the while, he tries to figure out why things changed in the first place 
 and what he needs to do to bring his parents back.  

  Unfortunately, the gameplay is not as engaging as the story. You tap on locations on the game's 
 map screen to visit them; once you reach a location, it is displayed from a first-person perspective, 
 and you interact with people or things by tapping on them. There's a very predictable rhythm to 
 the action: You travel around town talking to people to discover the exact time and place of the 
 moments Ethan glimpses in his flashback memories because these moments are the key to setting the 
 present straight. Once Ethan has all the pieces in place, you can go to the location of the most 
 crucial flashback and the hollow pen will start glowing. This means that Ethan can create a hole 
 in the fabric of time between his moment and that moment in the past. This process is called digging, 
 and it's the highlight of the game. With the stylus, you trace a circle on the touch screen; on 
 the other side of the portal, you create the moment glimpsed in Ethan's flashback -- frozen in time. 
 Ethan then changes that moment, sometimes by sending something through the hole, such as a note 
 he's written or an important item a character had misplaced, or by pulling something over to his 
 side, such as an object that might be moments away from being used as a murder weapon. Once Ethan 
 closes the hole, the present is immediately altered by the changes Ethan made to the past. Sometimes 
 all is well, but frequently, Ethan finds that his solution solved one problem only to create another. 

  The problem here is that there's very little for you to figure out for yourself. You just need 
 to make Ethan go around talking to people until he figures things out. There's never any question 
 as to what the solution is once a hole is opened up, so there's very little worthwhile problem-solving 
 in the game; Ethan generally already knows exactly what he's going to do. You just need to tap 
 the right spot on the other side of the portal. In fact, sometimes you might even be a few steps 
 ahead of Ethan. At one point, it's plainly obvious where Ethan needs to go next, but if you go 
 there, nothing happens to advance the story. Instead, you first need to visit a number of places 
 where Ethan can't do anything until it finally sinks into his head where he needs to go. At that 
 point, he'll automatically head to the location you knew he needed to go to all along. Ethan will 
 also often ignore clues that are clearly important until you've fulfilled certain conditions, and 
 there's frequently no logic to where a particular person you need to speak with is hanging out, 
 so you're left to just check everywhere until you stumble upon him or her. It all adds up to make 
 Time Hollow feel restrictively linear and to make you feel like you're not so much playing the 
 game as just going through the necessary motions to advance the story.  

  At least Time Hollow looks good. The rich, vivid artwork for the locations you visit is displayed 
 across both screens of the DS, enhancing the sense that you can reach into these places and interact 
 with them. However, there's actually very little you can interact with, and no action ever occurs 
 on the top screen. The visuals are made more captivating by the fact that when you pan your view 
 from side to side, objects in the foreground shift realistically with your perspective. This isn't 
 just for show, either; the game has a habit of hiding things in areas that are initially obscured 
 from your view. The areas are very small, though, and you can only pan left or right a little bit, 
 so it's never difficult to find anything. There are also a few high-quality animated scenes, including 
 a rousing title sequence complete with a spirited theme song. Aside from that theme song, though, 
 the sound isn't as impressive as the visuals. There are snippets of voice acting here and there, 
 which are delivered with a heightened intensity that fits well with the anime-styled character 
 designs. But they're rare, and the music throughout -- while quite moody -- is extremely repetitive. 

           Before using a hollow pen, you must hold it dramatically and gaze at it with great intensity. 

  The game will take most players about seven or eight hours to complete. Its simplicity and extremely 
 linear structure don't offer any replay value, with the exception of an alternate scenario you 
 can play through in a matter of minutes after completing the main story. There really isn't much 
 to Time Hollow aside from its story, so thankfully, it's a good one, and Ethan's struggle to put 
 the shattered pieces of the present back together by changing the past is interesting enough that 
 science fiction fans may want to tag along for the ride. Just don't expect to play a very active 
 role. If the team behind Time Hollow can somehow go back in time and make the gameplay worthy of 
 the story before it releases the game, then we might really have something here.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (9 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: booyakashah
Rating: 7
Date: Apr 7, 2009 2:46 am PT
Review:  Time Hollow was a game I was following as soon as it first was released in Japan. The concept sounded 
 delightful- I figured that the touch screen gimmick would work excellently, the story sounded engaging, 
 and- well- in general, I just plain love adventure games. I wasn't wrong about any of my first 
 impressions.
  
  Unfortunately, once I got my hands on the game, it became quite obvious what its problems were. 
 It was holding my hand and dragging me through the painfully linear storyline, but it wasn't leading 
 as far as telling me where I could actually FIND things. So I was left to wander aimlessly a few 
 times (the pitfall of adventure games is leaving you to wander or poke aimlessly around a room 
 hoping to find that one, useless piece of dialogue that your character needs to deliver before 
 you can move on) and I have to say I didn't appreciate it. 
  
  Ethen Kairos is also a massive idiot, as GameSpot's review dictates- as he sits there doing his 
 own version of problem-solving, I'm on the other side of the DS, feeling angry that I've got 20 
 minutes of gameplay to get through to perform a task that I know will be pointless. But the Shenmue 
 series prepared me for that eventuality, too.
  
  So- I have the patience to get past the pitfalls of this game, and good lord, am I glad I did.
 
  
  The story in this game is single handedly one of the most ambitious, engaging, and original tales 
 I have ever encountered in my years of gaming. No matter who you are, you need to experience the 
 story, because it's just such a great piece of work. Sure, the gameplay was losing me- but the 
 game is so short, and the characters so compelling, that I actually ended up enjoying it far more 
 than much longer and more thought out RPGs and Adventure games, no matter how much I liked the 
 gameplay. (Grandia, I am looking STRAIGHT AT YOU.)
  
  In the end, for me, so long as the gameplay isn't straight up broken, adventure games are all about 
 the story. And this one, in that respect, didn't disappoint- it exceeded all expectations.
  
  Please, please play this game, if you've got any patience at all. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: CoolRavens
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 17, 2008 8:21 pm PT
Review:  This game is perfect for any age. Anyone in you house could play it and have fun. And you wouldn't 
 have to worry about the gore and violence.
  
  It is engrossing without being gross. It keeps you entertained with a nice mysterious plot, a pretty 
 girl and a tragic lost love (spoiler) . 
  
  I'm not a die hard gamer so I just wanted something interesting to play and I found it with this 
 game. I loved all the clues and back play when time was changed. The story line was interesting 
 and the anime was nice. The opening theme song has become a favorite with my 8 year old brother. 
 
  
  This is the first game I have ever finished and I am planning to play it again for the alternate 
 ending. It would be nice if there was a sequel - I would definitely buy it. If you liked Trace 
 Memory or The World Ends With You (two games I played and very much enjoyed) , then you'll enjoy 
 this game as will. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Cantius
Rating: 6
Date: Oct 15, 2008 2:42 pm PT
Review:  Have you been playing Phoenix Wright on your DS lately? Wonder what other games are like that? 
 Well, look no further, this is just like phoenix wright, but it's less enjoyable and involves time 
 traveling. It actually sounds interesting, considering how you can time travel and change the past 
 to save somebody, but once you do it yourself, it's not that great of a feeling. The game is nothing 
 more than a mediocore anime-ish game. It does have some neat twists in there, but it doesn't hide 
 the fact that the story is shallow.
  
  Story [6.6]
  The story is about Ethan Kairos, a teenager who's anticipating his upcoming birthday. For his birthday, 
 he wants a clock he saw in a magazine article (or something similar) . But before his birthday, everything 
 around him changes. His room, the person he lives with, and even his friend. Confused, he finds 
 a green pen, and does his first time change for the first time. After that, you go through the 
 game helping out your friends, changing the past, and stopping even a more sinister character. 
 For me, the story at first was nothing interesting. Then, it got even more better, but as everything 
 begin to make sense, I thought the story was very simple, and that it was too simple. If it weren't 
 for it's short cast of characters, it wouldn't be so bad. Overall, I give it a 6.6 for the story.
 
  
  Gameplay [6.0]
  The gameplay is pretty simple. Even a first grader can figure it out. The point of the game is 
 to go around the map, talk to people, close time holes, and advance through the plot. It's that 
 simple. If it weren't for the bad dialouge, and the absurd calmness of the characters, it wouldn't 
 be so bad. In the menu, you can look up characters, items, and flashbacks. Flashbacks are what 
 helps you in the game, and to refresh your memory. These flashbacks indicate what happened in the 
 past, or what you caused when you closed a hole. The gameplay is very basic, and it just felt tedious 
 to go around the same places over and over, and talk to the same characters. Overall, I give the 
 gameplay a 6.0.
  
  Graphics [7.9]
  I thought the graphics in the game was pretty neat. The character designs, the environment, and 
 the animations in the game had a great atmosphere. I don't think I had any problems with the graphics, 
 and it sure didn't have any flaws. The environment in Time Hollow certainly fitted the story, and 
 I thought it captured the look of a small Japanese town. Overall, I give the graphics a 7.9.
  
  Sound/Music [8.0]
  The sound and music was done very well by Tenky. I actually like it more 
 than the gameplay, graphics and the story. The sounds of suspense in the air, the sounds of jazz 
 in Chronos, and everything about the sound was done well. I also liked the music in the game. Even 
 though it was pretty much the same stuff over and over, it fit quite well. Overall, I give it an 
 8.0.
  
  Final Word -
  Even though my review may be harsh, don't let it get all over you. I think the game deserves a 
 high 6 rating, which isn't bad at all. If you like simple games, and need some time to waste, this 
 game is the game for you. Whether your driving in the car, waiting for something, it'll be the 
 perfect time to pop in Time hollow. But I'll warn you, I would only buy it for 20 dollars or less. 
 30 dollars or more is just TOO much for such a simple game as this.
  
  Overall [6.5] 
::::::

::::::
UserName: JAB991
Rating: 5
Date: Oct 12, 2008 11:02 am PT
Review:  Great point and click adventure games skate a thin line between fun and boring. They must be interactive, 
 but also must have enough story told through dialogue and cut-scenes to grab the player. On the 
 Nintendo DS, the Ace Attorney franchise has set the gold standard in how interactive a proper point 
 and click adventure game should be; unfortunately, Time Hollow paid no attention to Phoenix Wright's 
 lessons and puts virtually nothing into the player's hands.
  
  Time Hollow tells the story of Ethan Kairos, whose 17th birthday is shaken up when he receives 
 a pen that can alter the past. He discovers that his parents have gone missing and it's up to him 
 to fix the past, keeping in mind possible repercussions, and ultimately create a better future. 
 The story is spread over six days, each of which takes only about an hour to complete, but you 
 won't get truly invested in the story until about the third day. At that point, the story picks 
 up, gets interesting, and starts to grab the player. For the first couple hours of play, though, 
 the game's a complete dud.
  
  Time Hollow's biggest problem, however, is the lack of options given to the player. Almost everything 
 the player needs to do is expressly told to the player, and all conversations and important events 
 are triggered automatically. When the game does give you freedom, it's vague on what needs to be 
 done, and a lot of time can be wasted by aimlessly looking for a tiny clue that must be found. 
 It's not exactly fun and can actually become annoying. It's near-impossible to get a game over; 
 it's tough to actually call Time Hollow a game.
  
  In terms of presentation, Time Hollow is nice. The soundtrack is decent, but far from special and 
 the graphics are pretty, but rather standard stuff for the DS with some pretty bland design choices. 
 The highlights are the rare, and annoyingly brief, full-motion cutscenes that are a nice escape 
 from reading hackneyed dialogue throughough the game. Though each character has a unique personality 
 and unique hobbies, they all seem to be the same. There's little attempt at any humor, and at times, 
 Time Hollow can be a complete bore.
  
  Overall, Time Hollow is a huge disappointment. After playing the game, I found myself wondering 
 whether it actually started off as a video game. It seems to be better suited for a manga or television 
 mini-series, but definetly not for a form of interactive enterainment like video games. The story's 
 concept is engaging, even if its delivery isn't, but Time Hollow's ultimate crime is how it simply 
 isn't fun.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: MetaKirbyfan14
Rating: 5.5
Date: Oct 7, 2008 1:26 pm PT
Review:  An anime time-bending game... sounds like it would be awesome but it didn't work out so well. First 
 of all Time Hollow is about a guy who gets a magic time-bending pen and he must stop whoever is 
 makng trouble in the past. Its very linear and will have you going to the same places over and 
 over again, the graphics look cool but that doesn't make up for the entire game. The time-bending 
 part is fun but you have to collect every little thing before you can do that. The story itself 
 is awesome but I think it was ruined by the gameplay I myself like the visual genre's but if you 
 came across Phoenix Wright or this I highly suggest Phoenix Wright.
  to sum it up Time Hollow has a deep story line, its very linear, but the graphics and characters 
 are cool, so I suggest you wait on this title and move on to something else. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DokiXAdvance
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 1, 2008 4:49 am PT
Review:  Time Hollow is my first game in its genre and I must say I loved it. The story is about a boy who 
 one day wakes up and his mom and dad are missing, but it turns out that they have been missing 
 for twelve years. The strange thing with that is that he has been living with his parents since 
 the day before this happened. The game is a Point & Click Adventure game. You use a pen called 
 the Hollow Pen to change things that happen during the past. The story is very well told. You will 
 also easily get attached to the characters in this game. The only down side is that you can beat 
 the game in about 6 hours. Otherwise this game is defiantly a buy for anyone that has a  
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Nef003
Rating: 8.5
Date: Sep 28, 2008 11:47 am PT
Review:  This game is very good.. if you want to play a game which keeps you glued to your seat, (or DS stuck 
 to your hand) this is one of them.
  
  i like the format.. It makes you stick to it.. I have not finish a game in a long time.. but its 
 fairly easy.
  I wished it had different planes of dimensions. one cannot alternate futures as one would want; 
 Besides the only way for one to advance is by doing what the story line requires, But still a great 
 game.
  
  overall i give it a 8.6 just because it was a great story line. wonderful, recommended to any age. 
 
  
  This game is a nice, safe, any age game.
  anyone in your house hold can play it and have a great time doing so, great!
  
  and like i 
 said before Great but short! i wanted more! Great story line! and movies which play as the game 
 goes along with real voices, i loved it. 
  
  
  I want to play the sequel of this game for sure. Thanks to the developers for doing a great job. 
 Giving us the opportunity to see a world were time stops. Thanks. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: IconicSaint
Rating: 8.5
Date: Sep 28, 2008 8:32 am PT
Review:  I really loved Hotel Dusk Room 215. The story was really good and the DS is a perfect system to 
 hold these kinds of games. If you liked Hotel Dusk then you will love Time Hollow too. Just how 
 they made the style of play is really unique. Also the story is one of the best ive seen in a while. 
 Its a great mystery that you will want to solve. Im surprised this game didnt get more attention 
 by people. I havnt had a good game to play on the DS since LOZ and finally this one came out, and 
 im having a great time playing it. So this game is well worth 30 dollars and its one that shouldnt 
 be missed if you like these types of games. ` ` ` ` `` ` `` ` ` `` ` `` ` ` ` ` `` ` ` ` ` ` ` 
 `` ` ` ` ` ` ` ` ` ` ` ` ` ` ` `` ` ` ` ` ` ` ` `` ` `` ` ` `` ` `` ` ` ` ` ` ` ` ` ` ` ` ` ` ` 
 ` ` `` ` ` ` ` ` ` ` ` ` ` `` ` ` ` ` ` ` ` ` ` ` ` ` ` ` ` ` ` ` ` ` ` ` ` ` ` ` ` ` `` - - - 
 - - -- - - ---- ` ` ` ` ` ` ` ` ` ` ` ` ` `` ` ` ` `` ` ` ` ` ` ` ` ` ` ` ` ` ` ` ` ` ` ` ` ` ` 
 ` 
::::::

::::::
UserName: christania
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 27, 2008 6:56 am PT
Review:  I just picked this game up as soon as it was released and am I glad I did. Now I've always been 
 a sucker for a good adventure game, and I'm talking old school where you didn't fight so much, 
 but rather solved puzzles and mysteries. This is why I enjoyed games like Broken Sword, Hotel Dusk, 
 and Trace Memory games. 
  
  In Time Hollow you aren't fighting (or at least I haven't seen any yet, lol) . You are trying to 
 search through time to solve the mystery of your parents' disappearance. At first the story will 
 have you a bit confused, but it's meant to open up the true sequence of events as you solve puzzles 
 circling around your flashbacks. It's very interesting. At certain locations you are required to 
 use this pen to draw a hole in time that opens a gate to a certain point where there is something 
 you need to find in order to progress the story. Honestly, I haven't gotten very far yet, but I 
 am finding myself always wanting to know what is going to happen next and it's very fun to play 
 so far. 
  
  The music is right for the game and the English voice acting isn't always perfect (the "young" 
 Ethan's voice kind of annoyed me) , but for the most part it's decent enough. 
  
  I think anyone who likes a good mystery or adventure style gaming with a good story will really 
 enjoy this game. I know I am! 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
