-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: TMNT
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/ds/action/tmntthemovie/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 Missions and story screens depict key scenes from the movie.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 Getting around by pushing buttons when prompted isn't much fun.
 there are only two or three fight situations during each mission.
 the lack of fighting moves and the input delays make fights feel tedious.
 presentation is generic.
 3D graphics are often incomprehensible.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Mar 23, 2007
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 3.1
Critic Score: 5.0, 9 Review (s)
User Score: 4.4, 80 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Ubisoft
Developer: Ubisoft Montreal
Genre: Beat-'Em-Up
Date: Mar 20, 2007
ESRB: Everyone 10+

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
The environments are no fun to get through, fights are infrequent, and the simplistic combat is 
 unfulfilling. 

  Ubisoft has published a gaggle of TMNT video games to coincide with the release of the latest feature 
 film. While they all vary in quality, the games made for the Nintendo DS and Sony PSP are undoubtedly 
 the worst of the bunch. Both games are virtually identical, apart from the fact that the PSP version 
 has better graphics. The story delivers plenty of fan service for those who have seen the current 
 movie, but the game as a whole suffers from a myriad of problems. The context-sensitive design 
 focuses mainly on pressing buttons in response to prompts, while the few combat situations you 
 end up in are just simplistic exercises in repeatedly pressing a single attack button. On top of 
 that, the graphics and audio aren't that good. This is especially true of the Nintendo DS version 
 in which the 3D environments are often incomprehensible.  

          You have to press one of the three different jump buttons in response to the visual cues 
 that appear.     

  For each of the game's 15 missions, you control a different Ninja Turtle. Your ability to move 
 freely within the 3D environments is limited. Instead, you accomplish most of your getting around 
 by pressing buttons in response to the visual cues that appear. If the blue flashing spot is directly 
 in front of you, you're supposed to push the middle button. If it's toward the left, you press 
 the left button. If it's toward the right -- you guessed it -- you press the right button. Occasionally, 
 you'll also come across spots where you're supposed to hold the jump button and let up on it when 
 the cue changes color. As you key in the appropriate button commands, your turtle will jump from 
 rooftops, swing from light poles, and perform other acrobatics that would make the guy from the 
 Prince of Persia games jealous. While this sort of context-sensitive design is unique, it doesn't 
 make for a fun game. You rarely get the sense that you're in the Turtles' world because it's hard 
 to feel like you're in control when all you're doing is pressing the appropriate button when you're 
 told to do so. Furthermore, in most instances, there's no penalty for pressing the wrong button 
 except that it wastes a little more time. You rarely feel a sense of jeopardy. The whole process 
 is just dreadfully dull.  

  When most people think of the Teenage Mutant Ninja Turtles, they picture Don, Leo, Mike, and Raph 
 kicking the butts of Foot Clan soldiers while shouting words like "Cowabunga!" They are ninjas 
 after all. Incredibly, this game doesn't give you many opportunities to put the heroes' martial 
 arts skills to use. While going through a level, you'll occasionally land in an arena where you'll 
 fight two or three waves of Foot soldiers. At the end of most levels, you'll also fight one of 
 the monsters from the recent movie. There are only a handful of fights throughout the entire game. 
 To make matters worse, the combat engine is pathetic. Your hero and the two or three thugs that 
 are with him in the arena move sluggishly. There's also a noticeable delay after you perform an 
 attack, which often leads to your taking damage as your Turtle stands there unresponsive. Your 
 attack repertoire is limited to the same basic three-hit combination: a charge attack and a somersault 
 finisher that you can perform whenever a context-sensitive icon appears. You can also summon another 
 Turtle a limited number of times and watch him perform an attack that enemies can't block. There 
 has never been a Teenage Mutant Ninja Turtles game with a fighting engine as simplistic as this 
 one.  

  Not surprisingly, neither version of the game comes close to pushing the technical capabilities 
 of the DS or the PSP. The characters in the DS version look crude, and the characters in the PSP 
 version are intricately detailed. Unfortunately, the animation is equally choppy in both games. 
 As for the environments, they're rather generic. Some of the textures are blurry in the PSP game, 
 but there are enough polygons to go around so that the 3D environments actually resemble the buildings, 
 bridges, jungles, and other key locations from the movie. By contrast, in the DS version, it's 
 often impossible to decipher what you're supposed to be looking at because the texture quality 
 and polygon count are so low. The PSP version also benefits from some nifty rain and haze effects. 
 There's nothing particularly noteworthy about the audio. The music sets a dramatic tone, and the 
 sound effects are suitably punchy, but the shortage of Turtle-speak is disappointing. Throughout 
 the entire game, you'll hear only a couple of speech comments.  

  At least both versions do a good job of portraying key events from the movie. You get to play as 
 the four Ninja Turtles, while members of the Foot Clan make up the standard enemy roster. During 
 boss battles, you'll face Max Winters, the four generals, and a few of the monsters that had major 
 roles in the film. A couple of missions even let you play as Raphael's alter ego, the Nightstalker. 
 The PSP version tells the story by displaying image captures and brief video footage taken from 
 the recent movie, whereas the Nintendo DS version gets by with image captures and static comic 
 artwork.  

          The Teenage Mutant Ninja Turtles are known for their fighting skills, but in this game, 
 you fight only a few enemies in each mission.     

  Apart from differences in visual clarity and a few minor layout changes, both versions of the game 
 contain the same 15 missions, which will take you a grand total of about two hours to complete. 
 You can draw out the experience -- not that you'd want to -- by replaying missions to collect medals 
 that are given as rewards for doing such things as collecting T-M-N-T letters and finishing levels 
 within a certain time limit. In the PSP game, you unlock a bonus image from the movie every time 
 you collect a full set of medals associated with a mission. A similar movie-related reward exists 
 in the DS game, but you have to collect all 65 medals to see it. Both games also feature a wireless 
 multiplayer ninja race mode, where two players compete to see who can get through a level the fastest. 
 You can pick up and use items to slow down your opponent, but the mode otherwise isn't much fun 
 because it's basically the same context-sensitive pablum you get with the main story mode.  

  Through and through, the versions of TMNT available for the Nintendo DS and Sony PSP are disappointing. 
 They're not fun, the presentation is weak, and the context-sensitive design shows that the development 
 team had no clue what the Teenage Mutant Ninja Turtles are about or what fans want from a game 
 featuring the four heroes in a half shell.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (6 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: darth_xavio
Rating: 7.5
Date: Mar 28, 2008 5:55 pm PT
Review:  Okay lets start off with the graphics they are a 8/10 some scenes seem pretty blocky at times but 
 will give you a great vision of the NY in the game.
  
  Next is the the decent camera view I give it a 5/10 for some times you are running around and then 
 you cant see a dang thing.
  
  The game play is really good and will will entertain most age groups of tmnt fans. But if you are 
 looking for a action tmnt game from the movie the ds one is the best. for game play a 9/10. sound 
 is not a a very good for the ds so the sound in this game for ds standers is pretty good. For sound 
 a 7/10.
  
  over all the game is a fun adventure for many age groups and will entertain my overall review is 
 to buy this game for a good price you should be very happy with this but not please write a comment. 
 so if you want a game with little bit of a challege but not to much this the right game for you 
 so please buy this game. If you did not like the one for the homing platforms this one is betterthen 
 that.
  Plase buy
  darth Xavio 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BarryBurtonman
Rating: 1.6
Date: Jul 20, 2007 9:37 pm PT
Review:  I feel so bad because my little sister got it for my brother knowing he and I both love the Ninja 
 Turtles. And we definitely do, but this game has to be one of the worst DS games ever created... 
 I love the side scrolling arcade TMNTs on the NES and the SNES and all that stuff. Why could't 
 this be like that? Instead it is more like the original TMNT on the NES. combat is clunky and boring, 
 and there are three fuc#ing buttons for jump. Why did they do this? Why? Luckily, it is my brother's 
 and he seems to like it okay. And to be honest, I'm glad he does. Because that's thirty bucks right 
 there. Like I said, I love TMNT and the new one that just came out, rocks. But you are telling 
 me out of all the things the Ninja Turtles can do combined with of the elements of the DS, that 
 this was the best they could do? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: LianeCartman
Rating: 1.7
Date: May 10, 2007 9:00 pm PT
Review:  I am a 24 year old female I grew up watching the original 80s cartoon. I have played several different 
 TMNT games. This one is a big disappointment to me. My two favorite game genres are platform and 
 fighting. Which is why I usually love TMNT games. When I first played the game I kept saying to 
 myself out loud where are the frecking villains?? Isn't there anything to smash?? When you began 
 a new game you have to listen to the boring story. Then, you have to do the stupid training. What 
 is the purpose?? I wish I had read the reviews/ratings on this game before paying $30 for it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nigelpatterson
Rating: 6
Date: Apr 13, 2007 4:14 am PT
Review:  well i have nothing more to say its just too easy the fightings too simple and you cant go anyware 
 but other than that its rather good but only the first time you play it. if you intend on getting 
 it i suggest waiting untill the price is way down (its mor worth the money that way) ont the better 
 side you can replay levels to do the challenges but on another point you get absolutely nothing 
 out of doing so. the graphics are ok considering its for ds but i just wish that they had made 
 it longer and / or harder or given it different difficulties. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hedgehog_bhoy
Rating: 5.4
Date: Apr 8, 2007 1:40 pm PT
Review:  Teenage Mutant Ninja Turtles
  
  Teenage Mutant Ninja Turtles (TMNT,) is an OK game but the fights are terrible with the combinations 
 being very slow. The only highlight I would say about this game is when you reach Ninja Speed while 
 jumping from roof to roof, which actually lasts about 5 seconds! This game is based on the hit 
 movie that has been released in cinemas but I dont think it lives up to the movies standards. 
 When I bought this game I gave it a chance but it hasnt satisfied me that much for me to keep 
 it. If I was going to give advice here I would say that you should rent it first! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: zcds
Rating: 4
Date: Apr 7, 2007 2:44 pm PT
Review:  This game trys to be to much like the console counterparts, it's not itts own game. That being 
 said lets see what makes this game so bad. Basicly you start each mission by entering a small area, 
 some times you gotta fight your way out but sometimes theres, nothing. infact you hardly fight 
 any thing at all whats up with that. Maybe thats a good thing considering how weak the combat system 
 it is and how it grows tiersom even in the small parts were you fight. Any way jumping from area 
 to area is really wonkey. Why map each direction to a diffrent button in fact why let us fall to 
 our deaths but leting us go to a palce were we die? why not just jump from one paltform to another 
 with out haveing to worrey im gonna go in the wrong palce and die. The thing is sometimes the game 
 dose a bad job tellnig you were you have to jump, and al ot of the time it's on a slip second you 
 have to do it right noww or your gonna die. So that results in wild gussing. A lot of the time 
 youll fall to your death by going to the wrong direction. It get iritateing and is no fun. So unless 
 you like jumping al ot (wich is basicly the whole meat of the game) your ognna like this, i just 
 don't recomend it if you do. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
