-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Tomb Raider: Legend
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/ds/action/tombraidervii/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 Environmental puzzles are fun to solve.
 game mixes in goodly amounts of gunplay and action.
 3D environments are beautiful.
 frequent full-motion video scenes give the game the kind of polish usually reserved for console games.
 controls and checkpoint structure are perfect for the DS.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 Occasionally, Lara will fail to latch onto a ledge or just let go of the rope she's hanging onto.
 camera doesn't always show the best view of a scene.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Dec 12, 2006
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 7.6
Critic Score: 6.0, 13 Review (s)
User Score: 6.9, 152 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Eidos Interactive
Developer: Crystal Dynamics
Genre: Modern Action Adventure
Date: Nov 14, 2006
ESRB: Teen

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Tomb Raider: Legend offers a good mix of gunplay and puzzles; it also shows off the system's 3D 
 capabilities. 

  Companies haven't made the best effort to really show off the Nintendo DS's 3D capabilities thus 
 far; but, as games like Tomb Raider: Legend prove, the system can push polygons and deliver cinematic 
 experiences on a level that is to equal to the Nintendo 64 or the original Sony PlayStation. Thanks 
 to the game's wicked hot 3D-graphics engine, fans of Lara Croft's adventures can experience the 
 same sort of gunplay and environmental puzzles on the diminutive DS that they've been enjoying 
 for years on consoles and computers. Her twin pistols, high-flying acrobatics, and swimming talents 
 have made it onto a Nintendo DS cartridge relatively intact, as well as the 3D environments and 
 video cutscenes that people have come to associate with the Tomb Raider franchise. While some intermittent 
 gameplay issues occasionally get in the way of enjoying the game, Tomb Raider: Legend is otherwise 
 a slick action adventure that should appeal to anyone who wants to raid tombs and gun down smugglers 
 on the go.  

          Visually, Tomb Raider: Legend on the DS looks as good as one of the PlayStation Tomb Raider 
 games.     

  Like the console versions of Legend that were released months ago, Tomb Raider: Legend on the DS 
 follows the exploits of Lara Croft as she investigates the mysterious circumstances of her mother's 
 death some 20 years earlier. Her search begins at an old Incan temple in Bolivia; but, of course, 
 one thing leads to another, and she ends up canvassing various ruins and smuggling dens all over 
 the world to track down the pieces of an ancient sword that is somehow the key to her mommy's demise. 
 While the story mainly serves its purpose -- in that it gives Lara an excuse to visit the game's 
 eight different locations -- what's impressive is that the game doles out its plot points through 
 a vast number of full-motion video scenes, which employ computer animation and recorded dialogue. 
 Most portable games resort to static pictures and text boxes to keep the story going. In that regard, 
 Tomb Raider: Legend for the DS is presented more like a console game, which does not mean that 
 this version of Legend is identical to its console counterparts. The people, places, and general 
 gameplay are the same, but because the DS lacks the horsepower and storage capacity that the other 
 consoles have, the environments, level layouts, and graphics have been reworked with those limitations 
 in mind. As such, someone who has played one of the console versions, can pick up the Nintendo 
 DS version and feel as if he or she has played two entirely different games.  

  In terms of the hands-on stuff, most of the game involves searching each environment for clues 
 on how to get from one spot to the next using Lara's many acrobatic abilities. Lara can leap, grab 
 onto ledges, swing on ropes, vault off of horizontal beams, swing between platforms using her magnetic 
 grapple, as well as shimmy across and propel herself upward from sheer handholds. She can also 
 push and pull certain heavy objects, as well as use her guns and grapple to shoot or yank certain 
 environmental decorations, which play into the switch puzzles that you'll come across at regular 
 intervals. Some levels also include swimming or riding a motorcycle that don't require much in 
 the way of thought, but do require quick reflexes to navigate without running out of air or crashing. 
 Falling from a lofty height or getting sliced to bits by a trap can eat away Lara's health and 
 result in death. Thankfully, you can use first-aid packs to regain health, and the only penalty 
 for dying is that you have to restart from the last checkpoint.  

  Throughout the journey, you'll also encounter hungry tigers and armed smugglers that usually aren't 
 happy to see Lara. Lara carries a pair of pistols that are perfect for such occasions, but she 
 can also pick up and use the shotguns, machine guns, and grenades that dying enemies leave behind. 
 You can make wild shots by repeatedly tapping the fire button or make precise shots by tapping 
 the first-person representation of the enemy that appears on the touch screen. Sometimes, you can 
 grapple or shoot objects in the environment to make them explode or topple on top of enemies. Generally 
 speaking, the puzzles and gunplay never get too complex or furious, but the game shakes things 
 up so frequently that you'll feel like you're always on your toes.  

          Lara's acrobatic abilities are the key to solving the environmental puzzles in each level. 
     

  For the most part, the controls are laid out nicely and responsive. Lara turns on a dime and jumps 
 almost immediately. If you push up against a ladder or leap toward a ledge, Lara will latch on 
 automatically. It's also obvious which grapple spots or decorative objects you can interact with 
 because a large button will appear indicating the button that you need to press to activate, yank, 
 or shoot the object. Sometimes the camera doesn't give a good view of the ledge that you need to 
 jump to, but those sorts of "leap of faith" situations are uncommon. Less common but more frustrating 
 is that Lara will occasionally fail to grab onto a rope or a ledge when she's supposed to or will 
 simply let go of a rope or ledge while climbing without any input from you. These collision gaffes 
 probably happen once or twice in each of the game's massive levels, which isn't often enough to 
 ruin the game. But it is frequent enough to make you worry that Lara will fall to her death every 
 time you dangle from a lofty handhold. It's definitely a good thing that levels in the DS game 
 are split into smaller chunks than the levels in the console versions and that checkpoints are 
 more plentiful because it's much easier to swallow an unintended death when you only have to retrace 
 a few steps from the spawn point. It also helps that the gameplay is compelling enough to make 
 it worth tolerating these intermittent flaws.  

  Besides the diverse gameplay, the other thing that really stands out about Tomb Raider: Legend 
 is that it looks beautiful. The numerous full-motion video scenes are the icing on the cake, but 
 the cake itself is the 3D polygon engine that literally crams PlayStation visuals onto the Nintendo 
 DS. Environments are packed with detail and frequently flaunt animated touches, such as waterfalls 
 and rivers. Weather and lighting effects are rarely seen in Nintendo DS games, but here they're 
 frequently evident. The variety of environments is excellent too. While there are merely eight 
 levels, each one transitions through a handful of indoor and outdoor settings, ranging from jungles 
 and ancient ruins to skyscrapers and mercenary camps. Meanwhile, the third-person camera gives 
 a good view of Lara in her various costumes. She also has a multitude of graceful animations for 
 everything from landing too hard on the ground to vaulting in circles while hanging onto a horizontal 
 beam. The audio isn't nearly as nice, but the dramatic musical pieces and small assortment of gunshots 
 and groans otherwise get the job done. Apart from footsteps, splashes, and the occasional environmental 
 sound, there's just not a whole lot of ambient noise.  

          There's also a decent amount of gunplay, along with other action scenes involving swimming, 
 motorcycles, and chase events.     

  Going through the story mode will probably take you about six or seven hours the first time through. 
 It actually feels like it takes longer because each of the game's eight levels is so massive. Every 
 level is split up into 20 or so small sections, and each section only takes about a minute to complete. 
 But when you add all of those sections together, it can take as much as 45 minutes to reach the 
 end of one level. Thankfully, you don't have to finish a level in one sitting. The game automatically 
 saves checkpoint data at the beginning of each section, which means you can quit your game and 
 reload it later without having to retrace too many steps or start the entire level over. After 
 you beat the game, you can play levels again to find any bonus artifacts you missed or to improve 
 your time trial scores. You can use those bonus artifacts to unlock minigames, artwork, and cheats 
 that can be accessed from the extras menu. The minigames are nothing amazing -- just Tomb Raider-themed 
 variations of classic logic puzzles. But they do offer a welcome diversion from the main game. 
 There's also a Wi-Fi link mode, but its only benefit is that it lets multiple people merge their 
 time trial scores into a single list.  

  As a franchise, Tomb Raider is known for its busty heroine and puzzling 3D environments. It's nice 
 to see that those things have been brought to the Nintendo DS without losing much in transition. 
 Tomb Raider: Legend is a gorgeous game, and aside from a few occasions where Lara commits suicide 
 without the player's input, it's also fun to play.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (9 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: ninjasock
Rating: 7
Date: Jan 1, 2009 12:46 pm PT
Review:  This is a great pick up and play game that you can play anywhere. The gameplay is pretty straight 
 forward, most of it is done in a sidescrolling way. The story is identicle to the console games 
 with the DS featuring cutscencs from the games in lower resolution. If you are looking to play 
 this game on any platform buy the Console version as it is much better Visually and gameplay wise. 
 But if you are wanting to play Tomb Raider on the move then this is the right game. Graphically 
 from the DS it is not bad at all. Gameplay there are a few special DS additions such as the touch 
 screen when you shoot and Duel Screens When you are in water and other such puzzles. The Bottom 
 Screen acts as a inventory which has weapons health and the PDA. The PDA is mostly Objectives and 
 other important info. Overall as i have said this is the game to play if you are on the go but 
 as for the game Legend its self. Play it on a Console game. (7.1) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Annimation
Rating: 6
Date: Nov 18, 2008 12:30 am PT
Review:  After the last Lara Croft game I played (Tomb Raider: The Prophecy on the GBA) I was really looking 
 forward to this one and indeed it started off well. It promised the same challenges of working 
 out where to go and in which order, having to think around various problems, slaughter various 
 opponents and master certain leaps etc that were quite difficult (don't wanna think about how many 
 times I fell to my death trying to leap that dammed pit in The Prophecy) . Anyway, it started well 
 and then  well it got a bit disappointing. It was like the little bit of tutorial at the beginning 
 just forgot to turn itself off - it just kept right on going. Halfway through Level 2, I erased 
 the game, changed the option to HARD and started again but no  there it was right through to the 
 end. You'd enter a new area and then suddenly the screen screams at you to press X or press A to 
 activate a weapon or the grapple even before you've seen any threat or problem or had any opportunity 
 at all to work out that there is a problem ahead. In effect, for the whole game, as long as you 
 leapt from point to point and press the appropriate key when prompted  it was dead easy and challengeless. 
 I found myself screaming back at it "NO! Don't tell me!" All in all, it didn't take me very long 
 to complete and only took as long as it did because I couldn't believe that this was the sum total 
 of the game and kept getting bored with it. Sorry Eidos but the phrase "must try harder comes to 
 mind". 
::::::

::::::
UserName: EOC-93
Rating: 7.5
Date: Feb 8, 2008 8:35 am PT
Review:  This game was better than what I expected. More action than I expected too. It's a good little 
 game. Although I was disappointed there were little to no multiplayer options, which would have 
 been good considering it's a fairly short game. It's very close to the Xbox game which is hard 
 to find when a company releases a game for a big console then strips it to a cartoon for a handheld. 
 The cut scenes are great because there just like the console version. 
  
  Gameplays good, you have a grapple, can kill your enemies with your stylus and the jumping and 
 swinging are all still here. I'm an old Tomb Raider fan and I wouldn't have gotten the game only 
 I saw it cheap and at game store, but I'm happy I did. I gave my cousin a go of the game and then 
 she bought it. I was happy now I could try out some multiplayer modes. But all I got were these 
 puzzles that got boring after 5 minutes!
  
  If you don't have this game and are thinking about getting it, I'ld reccomend it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: indra_agustia
Rating: 7
Date: Jun 3, 2007 4:09 pm PT
Review:  However there are some parts that needed a lot of improvement.
  
  The gameplay:
  A bit linear and short, not like the usual Tomb Raider. It's fun to play but Lara doesn't look 
 good, a bit static and perform limited moves. Mostly her guns have no sparks when shot and you 
 use the touch screen to shoot, which is a bit annoying. It's not as lively as it should.
  
  The bugs:
  I don't come across any major bugs, like falling from cliff or places unintentionally. 
 Controller is not good but decent enough. However the bug that I noticed is sometimes Lara has 
 her foot inside the floor and also sometimes all of her body is inside a wall when hanging on the 
 ledge. And once when I jumped to a wall, she just fell down to a bottomless black pit that's not 
 supposed to be there. Developers should take care of this things!!!
  
  Check the bargain bin. It's short, so buying full price is not recommended. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: shadowcat2576
Rating: 8.4
Date: Apr 13, 2007 10:22 am PT
Review:  I picked this game up by chance because it was on sale. While it is a bit short, it was a lot of 
 fun and held my attention for the few days I was trying to finish it. I had not played a Tomb Raider 
 game since TR2 for the ps1. This game felt very familar in style and left me with a desire to track 
 down some of the games I missed.
  
  I liked the ds touch controls for the shooting more than I thought I would. I usually don't like 
 having to switch back and forth, but the controls worked well. I also liked the swimming aspect. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: soccermaster22
Rating: 8.1
Date: Feb 3, 2007 3:35 pm PT
Review:  Tomb Raider DS is a surprisingly good game even if it is a bit short. Ride on a Ducati Bike , collect 
 heaps of artifacts , explore different enviroments and much much more.
  
  Story : Long story short Lara must find the secrets of her past and see if her mother did survive.
 
  
  Gameplay: Shooting on the touchscreen with the stylus feels gimmiky, jumping in one level from 
 a hill than ( on the top screen ) than swimming under water in the bottom screen is fun ( yet theres 
 not many moments of it , Lara has many moves and actions, feels like your playing Mario as its 
 a 3D side-scroller.
  
  Graphics : Many say this is amazing or the DS is finally showing its horse-power there only half-right. 
 Yes the DS is starting to show what it can do but thats now where near its limit. At first you 
 might think its not good in Bolivias first level but after that there is lots of great scenery. Lots 
 of detail everywhere u look. ( some awesome countries are Japan and kazakstan )
  
  Sound : suits the different enviroments perfectly Value: although the games nice it does not last 
 long I finished it in about 5 hours and 10 mins . I had most of the artifacts and unlocked most 
 stuff. But if u like streaming the videos again unlocking the mini games ( nothing exciting ) and 
 often die alot it should take you almost 6 hours.
  
  I bought mine online so I saved $32 bucks AUS I don't really think its worth paying $70 Aus for 
 it but maybe wait for a price drop ( if they even have them anymore or bid online then u would 
 definetly get your monies worth.
  
  Other Stuff : Awesome videos even if the are compacted or whatever to fit on the cartrige they 
 still look pretty good and sound nice as well just remember to put your volume up. Higher score 
 for actually putting cutscenes straight from the console versions.
  
  Bike-chase : Great altogether I played it for 10 mins because I enjoyed it so much sadly there 
 is only two of them and one stunt event where Lara does a Stuntman cinematic action that looks 
 cool. All in all this is an awesome game as long as u get it online of a reduced price and don't 
 expect it to last a month still worth having a look. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: khankster
Rating: 2.9
Date: Jan 28, 2007 7:37 am PT
Review:  I played around in the Croft Manor for a while and immediately realized that Lara can't walk/run 
 and shoot at the same time, nor can she draw guns while walking/running. I moved on the the first 
 level of the game and got to the first fight. As you approach the enemy, Lara can move in all 4 
 directions normally, but then as soon as she draws guns to engage in battle, she can only move 
 forward or backward, and both those movements are suddenly controlled by the Up/Down buttons on 
 the D-pad. This all means that you can never control the character properly to engage in battle. 
 Poor controller configuration is a deal breaker for me with any game on any console, and was the 
 primary reason why I dumped the Sony PSP a few months after it came out. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: suzabbe
Rating: 7.2
Date: Jan 23, 2007 10:12 am PT
Review:  Tomb Raider Legend is a new addition to a lengthy library of titles featuring the archeologist/adventurer 
 Lara Croft. What the DS version lacks in length, it excels in showing off the beautiful 3D abilities 
 and stupendous use of the DS dual screen design.
  
  The story begins with a young pre-teen Lara involved in a deadly plane crash and witnessing the 
 death of her mother at the hands of an ancient mechanism. Flash forward to today and you begin 
 to see wonderfully sculpted landscapes as Lara swings, jumps and flips her way through a mountain-side 
 obstacle course.
  
  While the DS version offers some surprisingly detailed graphics and beautiful 3D images, the game 
 itself is extremely linear, sometimes your only course of action is to face forward and run down 
 a single path, not being able to even stray from this path and explore. In high-end graphic games 
 the player is usually able to explore even the furthest crack and crevice of a map, the level of 
 linear story-line and the lack of moving on what appeared to be usable map space was frustrating 
 and added to the games already short length.
  
  The story was enjoyable and followed the story of the full PC version, minus several maps and a 
 great deal of the difficulty in puzzle-solving. The puzzles were painfully easy and some were omitted 
 all-together. They were essentially broken down into series of properly timed and maneuvered swings, 
 flips and jumps in order to move onto the next section.
  
  The dual screen feature of the Nintendo DS is brought to life when Lara approaches enemies; the 
 player uses their stylus to target the enemies on the second screen. One of the most beautiful 
 uses of this is when Lara swims, while the player cannot move Lara around much in water, as its 
 a 2D environment under water, when she dives the second screen becomes the below-sea-level map, 
 while the top screen remains the above-sea-level map, making an enjoyable smooth transition from 
 screen to screen when Lara swims up and down.
  
  Overall Tomb Raider Legend for DS is very short and its lack of difficult puzzles makes its replay 
 value rather low, however, the cut-scenes are great, the audio is one hundred times better than 
 its predecessor (Prophecy for GBA) and its an enjoyable little game. Id recommend as a rental 
 or purchased at a price-drop. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: acurban
Rating: 9.2
Date: Jan 16, 2007 3:39 am PT
Review:  I have to admit, I was leery of purchasing another Tomb Raider game for a handheld. The Tomb Raider 
 for the Game Boy Advance is rather crappy. I took a chance and purchased TOMB RAIDER: LEGEND for 
 the DS and am VERY HAPPY with it. The play is great, has a great story and the graphics are excellent! 
 I highly recomend that you get this one. it is very challenging and the controls are unique to 
 the DS. I love that you use the second screen when you go under water. it look really cool. I hope 
 that you will give the game a chance,. I know that some people have written reviews complaining 
 about falling off of the ropes and ledges but it seems like this has been fixed. I may be DS happy 
 but... Try it! you'll like it! 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
