-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Tomb Raider: Underworld
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/ds/action/tombraider8/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 Great-looking environments and lighting effects.
 Addictive touch-screen puzzles.
 CGI story interludes.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 Easy platforming and puzzles.
 Poor story and characterisation.
 Lara has a limited range of moves.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Dec 11, 2008
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 5.5
Critic Score: 6.9, 9 Review (s)
User Score: 6.9, 54 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Eidos Interactive
Developer: Crystal Dynamics
Genre: Modern Action Adventure
Date: Nov 18, 2008
ESRB: Teen

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Tomb Raider: Underworld is a simple side-scrolling platformer based on Laras recent escapades. 
 

  Tomb Raider: Underworld is a side scrolling platformer that does little justice to its illustrious 
 series. This perspective removes the exploration that made the series so popular and replaces it 
 with generic jumping, climbing, and swinging through linear underground environments. It is by-the-numbers 
 stuff, enlivened by attractive visuals and some addictive touch-screen puzzles. The result is a 
 game that fails to master any of the things it attempts, though it has sporadic highlights and 
 some nice environments and visual effects.  

           Lara's moves are limited, but she can use her grapple line to pull down objects and swing 
 over gaps.      

  This version of Tomb Raider: Underworld follows the same story as the other versions of the game. 
 Things start out badly for Lara; the prologue finds her racing to escape her lofty mansion as it 
 burns to the ground. Cut back to two weeks earlier, and she's trying to take care of some of her 
 father's unfinished business, which leads her to discover more about her mother, characters from 
 previous games, and the mythical Hammer of Thor. From a technical perspective it's good to see 
 the CGI cutscenes squeezed onto the DS, but it's a shame that the story is badly written, poorly 
 voiced, and instantly forgettable.  

  Like previous Tomb Raider games on Nintendo handhelds, this is viewed from a side-on perspective, 
 meaning it's more of a platformer than an adventure game. This removes much of the series' trademark 
 exploration, but on the plus side, it alleviates the tedious backtracking seen in the other versions 
 of the game. It's a shame that the platforming is so simple, though, with none of the beam-walking, 
 abseiling, and free-climbing that made other versions of the game feel so fresh. There are a few 
 good ideas though -- the game slows down time so you can move out of the way of large obstacles, 
 and if you don't quite make a jump you have to tap X to stop Lara from falling off the edge. The 
 levels are also reasonably brief, a welcome change from Tomb Raider: Legend's bloated, seemingly 
 endless levels.  

  While a good portion of the game is spent jumping between platforms, you sometimes come across 
 a puzzle that's controlled via the touch screen. The best of these is a Tetris type puzzle game, 
 where you move the pieces with your stylus. The puzzles start off simple, but they soon become 
 more challenging and are incentivised with prizes such as artwork that can be accessed from the 
 main menu. There are a few other touch-screen-based challenges, such as chiseling away at an old 
 stone to set it free or moving discs into the right position to open a door, but they're not particularly 
 fun or challenging. You also use the microphone to blow away dust from time to time, but as in 
 some other games, this feels a little tacked on.  

           The environments and lighting effects look great.      

  Combat plays a relatively 
 small part, though you have to fend off an occasional enemy using weapons and melee attacks. There's 
 some finesse in the combat system, as you use the right shoulder button to target enemies, the 
 B button to jump over them, and the A button to kick. However, the enemies are spread out and shotgun 
 is too powerful, allowing you to kill most enemies in two shots. Like the rest of the game, the 
 combat isn't challenging, and it wouldn't lose anything if it just concentrated on the platforming. 

  Tomb Raider: Underworld is very pleasing to the eye. The environments are varied, the lighting 
 is excellent, and only Lara's somewhat stilted animation dampens the impact of the visuals. There 
 are also underwater sections that may not be much fun, but the distortion effects look really nice 
 on Nintendo's console. The audio isn't quite as accomplished, and while the music occasionally 
 quickens the pace, the sound effects are all generic.  

  Tomb Raider: Underworld is a mix of unremarkable platform elements punctuated with some fun puzzle-solving. 
 The overall difficulty is far too easy, though, and even if you search out all the hidden extras, 
 you can breeze through most levels without dying in a matter of minutes. Add this to a forgettable 
 story and simple characterisation, and there's little to spur you on. Tomb Raider: Underworld is 
 ultimately a competent but underwhelming platform game that has little to offer fans of the genre. 
     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (5 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: altenter
Rating: 6
Date: Jan 30, 2009 11:30 am PT
Review:  Tomb Raider Underworld is an all right game to play. It gives out many hard challenges for you 
 to beat. The cut scenes in the game are perfectly done in a 3d environment, which makes you feel 
 like you're watching a movie. Like any other tomb raider game you are given weapons to use on your 
 enemies like using a shotgun, Uzi's, grenades and the m4 machine gun. Also like every other tomb 
 raider game I played there are health kits along the way while you're playing and sometimes you 
 might just not use them while going through some levels. There are also treasures like other tomb 
 raider games that you might find along the way hidden in areas you might never go to. Some of these 
 treasures give you hidden extras you may see in options, like pictorial on every character and 
 bios information on them too. While going through some levels you might come across some treasure 
 chests which have some interesting puzzles for you to solve and they get even harder as you go 
 along in the game. I might also tell you these puzzles are very time consuming because the harder 
 ones take more than a couple of seconds, they take hours. The controls in the game are like the 
 early tomb raider pc games as have to jump and duck to fire you weapons effectively. In the end 
 of all things this is like any other tomb raider game, you don't get what you want and some people 
 die and Laura goes home without anything except saving the world. overall Tomb Raider Underworld 
 may be unique in its own way, (Norse gods and weapons) but it always end up like any other tomb 
 raider game, Laura always get nothing and gets nothing in return and the saga continues one forever. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: world-ender-49
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jan 4, 2009 1:33 pm PT
Review:  If you played through 2006's Tomb Raider: Legend and was left wondering what the spared Amanda 
 and Lara Croft may do next this is a must buy. The game loses its predecessors' 3-D environment 
 in favour of a 2-D one. The new environment makes Underworld feel more like a platformer than a 
 shooter/action adventure. The game itself only takes about 3 hours to beat (4 hours to beat 100%) 
 but cut scenes and ridiculously long load times make the game take about 10 hours to complete. 
 When you actually are playing the game it's quite enjoyable. The puzzles are at an acceptable difficulty 
 level and are somewhat addictive. The cut scenes are better than Legend's scenes visually but much 
 poorer in the audio department. At many times you can't understand what's being said without reading 
 the script which drastically takes away from the scenes. The game's story is ok by itself but quite 
 strong when combined with Legend's. If you can live with long load times and the sloppy audio this 
 a great buy that you will enjoy from start to finish. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nikbrg
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 28, 2008 4:06 pm PT
Review:  This was a really great game. The 3D graphics are really good, but I wish you could move around 
 like on Tomb Raider Legend. The puzzles in this game are great. The only thing that doesn't make 
 sense is Lara knowing who Natla is because this is a new story that has nothing to do with the 
 original series. The giant squid thingy was pretty cool but I think it would be cooler to fight 
 it on a consolle version because you don't exactly get to fight it on DS. Combat is a little more 
 difficult than on past Lara Croft games, but I should be able to get used to it. The environment 
 is excellent! The controls are a little more difficult than on Tomb Raider Legend, but not too 
 much more difficult. I think that the Manor burning down is really cool. Can't wait to get farther 
 in the game to find out why! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 1stlegend
Rating: 3
Date: Dec 5, 2008 4:36 am PT
Review:  How the hell did the other reader give this a 9 i have no idea. One of the most unchallenging games 
 i have ever played. You'll finish it on your first go. Tomb Raider is meant to be played in 3D, 
 take this away and all you do is run left then right, maybe run left again, and thats it. Oh, there's 
 up and down aswell. Exploration is NOWHERE to be found in this version. Also, the game is split 
 into 3 min sections. This is so annoying. As soon as you start a level, its over. It dosen't feel 
 like you're doing alot. Playing time roughly 4 hours 30 mins. If they can do Mario in 3D, Metroid 
 in 3D, then this should'nt be a problem. I will give it some credit, graphics are good for side 
 scroller and it does get good for the last 20mins or so. Just wish it was 10 times bigger, 3D, 
 more challenge, then it might have been good.
  Few more things for why this game sucks big time. Someone mentioned combat is difficult, what a 
 load of rubbish. There's never ever more than 2 people on screen at any one time. thoughtout the 
 entire game, i think, there's only 10, yes 10, people to kill. I would say 80% of the game is just 
 your basic level with a few, extremely easy puzzles to go through. 
  There are a few good points to the game, thats why i upped my score to a 3. There are these chest 
 which you find along the way which has a Tetris-style block puzzle on them. Best part of the game 
 in my opinion. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Gatcho
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 11, 2008 6:07 pm PT
Review:  If you guys have already played Prince of Persia before, then this game is going to be pretty familiar. 
 But instead of playing an acrobatic prince, you will be controlling the sexy Lara Croft instead.
 
  
  The graphics looks good. It's a lot better than most side-scrolling games out there. And although 
 the textures tend to get quite repetitive, it doesn't reach the point that you'll get bored looking 
 at the same old textures because the game does an excellent job of changing the scenery after only 
 a few minutes of gameplay (3-5 minutes per level) . And for those who are wondering why this game 
 is not in full 3d. Given that the DS screen is too small, plus the fact that its using low res, 
 turning the game into full 3d is going to be a disaster especially with the likes of Tomb Raider 
 where timing and accuracy is critical. So you'll just probably spend most of your time trying to 
 zoom in/out and rotating the camera trying to see where you should go next. And that's also one 
 of the main reasons why a lot of 3rd person games get shifted to side-scrolling when released in 
 the DS. If some 3rd person games have camera issues when played on the PC or home consoles, how 
 much more on the DS'es tiny screen? Mario 64 this is not. 
  
  The cinematics are also quite impressive (not to mention that there's a very good amount of 'em 
 in the game) , the video isn't as blocky as most games but the audio in my opinion is already on 
 the low quality side. If it wasn't for the subtitles, I probably missed half of their dialogue 
 because it sometimes already sound garbled. And it's quite obvious how they wanted to show off 
 Lara's "assets" since the camera tend to pan and/or focus on her "good sides". 
  
  Given that I'm only on the early stages of the game, I think it's already safe to say that the 
 game is probably as good as it can get on a DS unit. It plays pretty much as what you'd expect 
 out from a Tomb Raider game. You leap, hang on ledges, climb ropes/chains, do acrobatic moves, 
 swim, etc etc. It's all in there. What is really great about it however is that the stages are 
 well designed. And you even get rewarded by exploring because it will allow you to grab a couple 
 of items that unlocks extras like concept arts. There's also a mix of puzzle solving in the game, 
 plus the occasional back-tracking. The action sequence is pretty cool, you can leap and shoot at 
 the same time while dodging your enemy. However, I found it unrealistic when in takes 10 shots 
 to down an enemy using your pistol. There's also a slow-motion effect that allows you to dodge 
 fast falling objects, not something that hasn't been done before but it adds some excitement into 
 the game. The camera however sometimes tend to zoom-in making you guess on what to do next. I sometimes 
 find myself blindly jumping off a ledge (plummeting to my death) because I couldn't see where exactly 
 I should go next.
  
  The controls are fairly easy to use and master. You use the buttons for everything except on few 
 occasions. You use the touchscreen to move things around or chisel artifacts when solving puzzles, 
 and the mic to ... wait for it ... blow dirt off items.
  
  There might not be a lot of new things on offer here, but the combination of things that has been 
 done before was properly mixed in this one. Add to that the good looking graphics and videos, excellent 
 level design, and a few surprises makes this a solid game. Other than the poor cinematics audio 
 quality and long loading time that sometimes reaches 20secs, the game is in my opinion a must buy. 
 Now let's see how the latest Prince of Persia for the DS will stack up against this title.
  
  .: My reviews are only as good as everyone else's. Take every single one of them with a grain 
 of salt:. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
