-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Tom Clancy's Splinter Cell Chaos Theory
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/ds/action/splintercell3/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 Features single-player, co-op, and versus modes, just like previous versions.
 Some good animations.
 Levels altered from previous versions, so they'll keep fans guessing.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 Sluggish, lackluster frame rate.
 Drab 3D visuals.
 Cumbersome controls take a while to get used to.
 Level design often frustrating.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Jul  1, 2005
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 5.6
Critic Score: 5.1, 30 Review (s)
User Score: 7.1, 727 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Ubisoft
Genre: Modern Action Adventure
Date: Jun 28, 2005
ESRB: Teen

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Splinter Cell for DS sounds like it's got everything you'd want out of a portable stealth game, 
 but it lacks the fundamentals necessary to make for an entertaining experience. 

  Stealth action hits the Nintendo DS for the first time in Tom Clancy's Splinter Cell Chaos Theory, 
 an ambitious but seriously flawed attempt at completely re-creating the dramatic experience the 
 series is known for in a portable format. Like its console and PC counterpart, Chaos Theory for 
 the DS is a fully featured game, offering up a good-sized single-player campaign, as well as some 
 two-player cooperative missions and a four-player team-based versus mode. Unfortunately, all of 
 these are dragged down by a poor frame rate and cumbersome controls. The scope of this game is 
 certainly impressive. It's just not much fun to play.  

          Sam Fisher's back, and he's harder to see than ever.     

  Chaos Theory for the DS 
 looks like a watered-down version of the console game, and it follows the same storyline despite 
 some noticeable differences throughout the missions. It's a fully 3D third-person-perspective game 
 in which you primarily need to sneak your way through heavily guarded, booby-trapped levels on 
 various top secret assignments. The top screen is where most of the action takes place, while the 
 bottom screen functions as a radar that shows the locations of nearby enemies and security cameras. 
 It also lists various options, lets you switch weapons and vision modes, and performs a few other 
 types of activities, such as picking locks.  

  Even before you begin play, you'll notice the substandard frame rate. Even the main menu screens 
 chug along unresponsively, creating a poor first impression, which doesn't go away when you actually 
 begin playing. Though the DS can't be expected to compete with an Xbox or a GameCube in terms of 
 its ability to render good-looking 3D characters and environments, you'll probably agree that it 
 ought to be able to do much better than this. Chaos Theory for DS looks like an old PlayStation 
 game from seven or eight years ago. Blurry, drab textures and crude-looking environments abound, 
 and despite nice-looking animations held over from the console versions, the characters don't look 
 much better. But it's the sluggish frame rate that fluctuates between 10 to 15 frames per second 
 or so that's the real culprit, causing Chaos Theory for DS to feel like it all takes place underwater. 
 You could eventually get used to the unpleasantly slow and unresponsive look and feel of this game, 
 but even then, the frame rate continues to be a major impediment.  

          If the patrolling enemy guards don't kill you, the lousy frame rate surely will.     

 
  On consoles, controlling Third Echelon operative Sam Fisher requires every single function on 
 the game pad. On the DS, the developers at GameLoft (who evidently based this version of Chaos 
 Theory off of its N-Gage version) figured out ways to allow you to map all those different commands 
 between the DS's directional pad, buttons, and touch screen. The results take a while to get used 
 to, and may well leave you feeling cold. The D pad makes Fisher run in any direction, but camera 
 controls are mapped to the touch screen. The camera moves a little on its own as you run around, 
 but you'll often be forced to fidget with it often, especially in cases where you need to turn 
 around and go the other way. You can sort of use your thumbs to rotate the camera, but in the end, 
 you'll be forced to play using both the D pad and the buttons, as well as the stylus on the touch 
 screen, and you'll switch between the two sets of controls as necessary. When aiming with your 
 weapons, the touch screen is really the only way to go, since it's the sort of smooth analog movement 
 you get using your computer's mouse.  

  Fans of previous versions of Chaos Theory will notice some other key differences in this case. 
 The levels are laid out differently than what you may have seen before, so at least you'll be kept 
 guessing. It's easy to become disoriented in them, so it's frustrating that your radar display 
 doesn't at least have some kind of compass pointer on it to help you get your bearings. And for 
 some reason, when playing the cooperative missions, you can't see your ally on your radar screen, 
 either. On the plus side, previous versions of Chaos Theory let Sam Fisher take foes hostage at 
 knifepoint, but he couldn't actually stab them once he'd put them in a vice grip. Here, though, 
 you can go right ahead and slit someone's throat if you like. It's a bloodless kill, though it's 
 replete with a squishy sound effect that's one of the highlights of the game's otherwise rather 
 unimpressive audio. There's very little speech in the game -- story-based cutscenes are all spelled 
 out using long-winded, slow text sequences. Music includes samples from Amon Tobin's excellent 
 soundtrack, but these tend to loop way too often (especially in the multiplayer modes) , so they 
 can get really annoying. The music also awkwardly cuts out when you switch vision modes or get 
 into a firefight.  

  Chaos Theory for DS can be a frustrating experience for a variety of reasons, not just those stemming 
 from its technical performance or its difficult controls. Unlike previous versions of the game, 
 which were fairly forgiving, Chaos Theory for DS is loaded with situations that can cause you to 
 instantly fail a mission, such as by getting picked up on one too many security cameras. Enemies 
 are also difficult to deal with if alerted. Since Sam can't fight hand to hand here, it makes that 
 knife pretty much useless unless you sneak up on someone first. So, in short, you'll have to retry 
 mission sequences over and over until you get them right. Each time you fail, the continue menu 
 irritatingly defaults to the option to restart the mission from scratch rather than to restore 
 you from your last save point.  

          The touch screen hampers the gameplay at least as much as it helps in this case.     

 
  It's commendable that Chaos Theory for DS packs in both the competitive and cooperative multiplayer 
 modes of previous versions of the game, but these are both undermined on account of many of the 
 reasons already mentioned. For another thing, you need multiple game cartridges for the multiplayer, 
 making the four-player versus mode especially unlikely. With just two players, versus mode is a 
 fairly pointless cat-and-mouse game as one sluggish mercenary tries to gun down an infiltrator. 
 With more players, it's still not much fun, since the levels feel cramped and confusing. The highlight 
 is when a spy actually manages to sneak up on a mercenary from behind. The mercenary, who views 
 the action from a first-person perspective, can see his foe's knife come right up and drag across 
 the screen. As for the co-op missions, they split players' abilities between an assault-oriented 
 character and a hacker character, so one guy's the muscle and the other is the brains. There's 
 not much difference between the two characters, but you won't be able to proceed without both of 
 them. At any rate, the multiplayer modes in Chaos Theory for DS are functional, but like the single-player 
 game, they feel sluggish and aren't particularly entertaining.  

  Splinter Cell for DS sounds like it's got everything you'd want out of a portable stealth game, 
 but it lacks the fundamentals necessary to make for an entertaining experience. Considering that 
 the quality of the series' presentation is arguably what it is best known for, it's surprising 
 and disappointing that Splinter Cell on the DS doesn't come across better. Nevertheless, forgiving 
 fans of Sam Fisher might enjoy some aspects of having the Third Echelon agent in their pocket, 
 though they should proceed with caution.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (55 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: Batman_Vengence
Rating: 6.5
Date: Mar 18, 2009 6:20 pm PT
Review:  Tom Clancy's Splinter Cell Chaos Theory has it's flaws, and they are many, but it also has like two 
 or three good things too. This games graphics are pretty good considering it's fully 3D and an early 
 DS game, although because of this, the frame-rate is likely to lag you down at times, but not tremendously 
 so. The story's not that bad. There are missions where you will sometimes be and not be permitted 
 to kill. It can be fun sometimes to take out enemies and screw around. There is a lack of weapons, which 
 is unfortunate. This is one (if not the only so far) stealth involved game on the DS, which can be 
 fun for people like me who like those kinds of games. I tried the Xbox version, loved it and wanted 
 to have one for my DS. That's likely to be the only reason I bought it. After you beat the game, you 
 can choose from a selection of costumes for Sam to wear. One problem, though. IT DOESN'T WORK. When 
 you try to equip a costume, it'll work once, and you can never change it again, no matter what you 
 do. It bites. Very much. Over all, Chaos Theory is an okay game. Although you will probably hear otherwise. If 
 you can find this game cheap, go ahead and buy it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: OICWUTUDIDTHAR
Rating: 4.5
Date: Jan 24, 2009 4:29 pm PT
Review:  "How could you pick on Splinter Cell...?" But I'm not actually, Splinter Cell is an awesome series, 
 but this DS version is just all not too fun, especially compared to it's console counter parts. 
 I can't help but feel that they could have made a portable version of Chaos theory on the DS a 
 great game to have on the go. It had the potential.
  
  The game seemed decent for a bit 'til I figured out that you had to move the camera... With the 
 touch screen, that's seriously just annoying and makes looking around and simply turning around 
 way more complicated than it needs to be. By far the most annoying part of the game. It distracts 
 you from what you're doing and forces you to look at the bottom screen, and makes trying to get 
 through missions straight up rediculous. You can get use to it, but it doesn't change the fact 
 that you have to stop looking at the screen just to move the camera. I really can't say how much 
 doing this has killed me and many other people. Patrols and cameras will beat you to it in no time.
 
  
  The sounds also sound cheap as well. The music isn't very enjoyable, makes the DS look bad. To 
 add on to the presentation problems, the games graphics are pretty mediocre. Nothing is designed 
 very well at all. But I'll admit shooting things can be fun sometimes, but not always, and it's 
 never a good idea to go around blasting people in a stealth game like Splinter Cell, so your only 
 true option is to sneak around, which is fine, but the damn camera will always prevent you from 
 stealthing around the right way, trial and error will be the only way you can get past this game. 
 Luckily, the length isn't too long, but it will sure feel like a long game from all the times you 
 will need to restart from where you leftt off because of the camera. I know it seems like I'm whining 
 about the camera a lot, but it really is, -that- bad, if it were easier to use, the game would 
 be much better, still difficult at times, but more possible.
  
  Due to other really clunky controls and camera, the missions can be annoying to finish, without 
 good control the traps and alarms feel cheap and unfair sometimes, if the game had better control 
 it would be decent, the game feels difficult for all the wrong reasons. But if you have fun with 
 this game, I won't sue you for it, it's just a matter of taste and opinion when it comes to this 
 game, love it or hate the portable Splinter Cell, to be fair, this isn't the worst port of a game 
 from consoles, could have been much worse. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: metalmouth14
Rating: 2.5
Date: Oct 20, 2008 3:51 pm PT
Review:  This game is terrible and a major rip-off. The game has a super slow feel to it and just doesn't 
 give you a feeling of satisfaction that you got a good game. The music for the game is some of 
 the worst video game music ever made. The game looks horrible everything in the game is made up 
 of only 4 to 5 pixels. The colouring in the game is dull and boring. Its hard to see what your 
 doing in dark rooms even with night vision on. The gameplay is bad as well fighting in the game 
 is boring and slow. Most of the gun fights are 1 on 1. The story if there is any is badly put together 
 and doesn't tell you why you are fighting in this game. Sometimes when I play this game I don't 
 know what you have to do and it doesn't, tell you. Oh and the game is very short to. I don't think 
 anyone should get this game.
  
  Sorry for any spelling or grammar mistakes I may have made. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gbarules2999
Rating: 3.5
Date: Jun 29, 2008 7:41 pm PT
Review:  I was excited, because Splinter Cell was coming to the DS. I had always been wary of the series 
 on the consoles, because they always appeared to daunting; that whole stealth stuff just doesn't 
 fit a console experience for me. So perhaps I could enjoy it on the DS, where I can take the game 
 everywhere with me? Not if the game stinks so hard that it might as well not exist.
  
  This version of the game was developed primarily for cell phones, and then ported to the DS, and 
 it shows. The action is choppy and slow and methodical, and, simply put, it's just not a well made 
 game. Besides my objections with the genre in the first place (which I can assure you will have 
 no matter in my objectivity) the game was simply and forthright not made with the zeal and shine 
 of usual games, and when it's done with such a large series such as Splinter Cell, it hurts.
  
  Well, it's the visuals that really dig the splinter into the skin (pardon the pun) , and mainly 
 because they're too hard to see. The game is made up for three colors: Brown, Green, and Brown-Green. 
 Sometimes you'd have a Black spot here or there, but for a handheld system where lighting isn't 
 always the best, having bright, distinct colors is a must. SC: CT is simply too hard to see unless 
 you are using the very brightest the DS Lite has to offer, and if you have the option of playing 
 the game with the lights off just go fire up your Gamecube and play it there.
  
  But when you can see it, do you even want to? The game looks fine for the DS, and the models look 
 nice and clean, but the framerate chugs along to the point that the game even harder to see. It 
 won't kill a battle or make a gameplay difference, but it is noticeable and not nearly as smooth 
 as other DS games of the kind. Again, an annoying reason why this game should have stayed on cell 
 phones, because it obviously wasn't developed for the DS. It looks fine when you see screenshots 
 here, but once you play the game it's less than ideal.
  
  Neither is the actual gameplay, which proves that the DS can't do everything, though it gets pretty 
 close. Sometimes I'd see the true fun of the cat-and-mouse gameplay, sneaking over to a dark corner 
 and sniping the guy from a hundred feet away. That never gets old, and the DS can pull it off for 
 the most part. The first level especially shows off the SC gameplay and just how interesting it 
 can really get: finding an objective around the missions and killing people.
  
  And then I think about what I have heard about SC: it's non-linear, so you can complete a mission 
 any way you want. That's not what Gameloft did. This game makes you do exactly what the developers 
 had in mind, or your butt will be under alarm and found. It's extremely annoying, considering that 
 what the developers want you to do isn't always the more fun way. I really want to sneak around 
 the back of the bank, taking out every man that comes walking past; but alas, the e-mail comes 
 and I can't kill anybody. So I have to sneak, and sneaking in the open is about as easy and enjoyable 
 as it sounds, especially when the main character walks like a snail.
  
  And when the action does hit, and you are discovered, there's no recluse: the game suddenly becomes 
 a fumbling for the next touch screen button to find the certain gun that can stun him in the neck, 
 and then once you're dead you realize that you probably couldn't stun the guy anyway. The touch 
 screen holds all the swapping of guns and weapons, but finding the right one is something that 
 you need to do in the dark corridors, and when an enemy spots you, tapping eight or nine icons 
 isn't the best thing to be doing at that moment.
  
  Not that you'll really feel like you were fairly found. The game has a little meter in the corner 
 of the screen telling you how shadowed you are (compensating for the lack of power to do the lighting 
 effects seen in the console games) and once you're in the darkness, even if you are sitting right 
 next to the men, they will turn around and stalk another corridor. But you step once leg out of 
 that shadow and magically they know where you are, even if you swore their heads were turned the 
 other way.
  
  Does this add up to much? No. I enjoyed it a few times during a mission or two, but those were 
 isolated cases. In the long run, the game is not fun, and there's not much else to back it up.
 
  
  I'll say it right now: I don't remember the story at all. I played this game about a month ago, 
 and whatever this game was about (some stupid rebellion group captured some dude to take over some 
 nation) it's certainly not important enough to know. There's no voice-overs done here (which I 
 thought would be really nice) and the text is so small that it's hard to get a grasp on what they 
 are saying in the first place. The cutscenes, admittedly, look cool, and that's when the frame 
 rate can speed up to a speed where the 3D engine looks really nice. But by and large, the story 
 just kind of sucks, like most of Tom Clancy's work.
  
  But in a stunning move, there's one part of the game that completely stands out: the audio. Combining 
 a few short voice clips ("What's that over there?") with a really nice, console quality soundtrack, 
 the DS speakers do well justice to the series. I would even guess to say that the developers just 
 lifted the files from the console version and stuck it in the DS cart, which is probably the best 
 thing they could have done anyway. Major kudos go to the composer of the moody, epic tracks that 
 play in the background of the game, because they sound fantastic and add a lot to the atmosphere.
 
  
  Alas, if there was such an atmosphere to add to. Ignoring some very cool and nifty moments in the 
 game, Splinter Cell: Chaos Theory largely falls flat because it wasn't made for the DS. It has 
 its days, but those days can't make up for the rest of this shoddy port, and when I get the real 
 Splinter Cell I hope it goes much beyond this. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: altenter
Rating: 8
Date: Feb 12, 2008 9:28 pm PT
Review:  Tom Clancy's Splinter Cell Chaos Theory for the ds is pretty good for the ds graphical wise and 
 its very immersive playing the game. I played the game over and over again and it is still fun. 
 They should have made the multiplayer mode of the game wifi; lots of people would have had a blast 
 if that was created for this game. Hiding in the shadows can be a real pain because I don't like 
 waiting for one stupid guard to walk on by, I would like to use the gun allot on the cp's but that 
 would raise the alarms and I would lose very quick. The moving lasers in the game can be a pain 
 it's hard when I try to jump over them or dodge them but sometimes it might set them off. It's 
 really good when you beat the game cause then you get level select and infinite ammo (that can 
 come in handy) . There's also hidden area's in some levels that give you different suits to put 
 on in the game. These secret areas are very hard to find. The night and fermal visions where useless 
 in the game you could beat the game without using them. The creators should have put more use to 
 them. Picking the lock was kind of neat because you used the touch pad of the ds to unlock some 
 doors. The in game movies were great to watch because they looked more 3d than the game. Some things 
 the game should have are remote bombs, grappling hooks, poisons and some intelligent cp's. The 
 hardest level in the game seems to be for me the bank level because there are too many detection 
 lasers that get me mad. 
  
  Overall this game will make you be very stealthy! 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Nitro720
Rating: 7
Date: Sep 15, 2007 8:33 am PT
Review:  This game is alright. The first time you play you'll be like what the... because the controls and 
 the way the game handles is a bit strange. But after the first story level you will be more used 
 to it. A bad thing is the frame rate. I know it is a hand-held but it is very sloppy. Sometimes 
 you'll go into closed spaces and get lost because the game can't keep up with you movements. The 
 graphics are pretty good considering it came out maybe a year after the DS came out to the market. 
 The story in the game is pretty decent and I liked it. Still seemed kind of bland to me though. 
 You can sometimes go a whole level sneaking around without killing or knocking out anyone. The 
 games difficulty level varies throughout the level. Sometime during a level they will be extremely 
 easy parts. But sometimes there will be hard areas that you will start to understand once you die 
 or get noticed a couple of times. The stealth is alright but it can be kind of glitchy sometimes. 
 Like if you shut off the lights in a room, you will be able to walk in front of and bump into an 
 enemy without raising an alarm. The gear in the game are what you would expect in a stealth game 
 like silenced pistols, projectiles that stun enemies and targets, scan lens and more. It has multi-player 
 matches.
  
  Over all this is a pretty good game but has lots of flaws that keep it from being superb ( I really 
 wish they would have added more variety to the weapons (even though you don't use them as much as 
 you would like) )
  
  Rent it to see if you like it before you buy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Pokedude2000
Rating: 10
Date: Sep 11, 2007 6:42 pm PT
Review:  I really enjoy this game so if you like spliner cell &amp; have a nintendo DS I would recommend 
 this game. It may be dull at first but enentually it grows on you! But it is no where near halo 
 because it is a hand held game. Also it is only 20 dollars and that is not too much money connsitering 
 that most xbox three sixty games or sixty dollars. And it may be cheaper now consitering that the 
 game has been around for a decent amount of time.
  One more thing, you may need to go online to figure out how to beat some levels because they can 
 be puzzling.
  
  Hope this helps 
::::::

::::::
UserName: thomas_bobbypin
Rating: 7.8
Date: Aug 4, 2007 9:25 am PT
Review:  Hey there Thomas_bobbypin here! this review here is for a game i own-Tom Clancy's Splinter Cell: 
 Chaos Theory for Nintendo DS And let me say this if other reviews say that its 6.5 or less they 
 probably haven't even played it they most likely just looked at other reviews and copied them.
 
  
  first off let me talk about the graphics- the graphics were OK just remember that this is DS so 
 don't set your expectations very high or you will hate it. and yes every once in a while it lags 
 a bit for only for not even 1/50th of a second and its maybe every 10 or so minuets but thats with 
 the night or thermal vision goggles on. it gets very laggy with them on (night vision is MUCH more 
 laggy than thermal)
  
  Gameplay- AMAZING! my heart was pounding every minuet! very intense and a little hard.
  
  Sound-not 
 too too bad but not excellent either
  
  now the big question-is it really worth my $30???
  
  I have the answer-YES
  
  the best 
 place to buy it is amazon. com or if your in Canada at Amazon. ca
  
  Thomas_Bobbypin 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lilhawkkid182
Rating: 7.9
Date: Jun 19, 2007 2:53 pm PT
Review:  Splinter Cell for the GBA, was probablly in my opinion, one of the most fun side scrollers on that 
 system that were not rehashes of old Super Nintendo games. The version of Pandora Tomorrow was 
 nothing special, as it tried to change and update the already perfect formula. Then the DS came 
 about, and the first 3D Tom Clancy game on a Nintendo handheld came out. This game Chaos Theory, 
 got some pretty bad reviews, but seing how I love Tom Clancy games, I still decided to give this 
 game a try, and in my opinion, was not that bad of a game at all. This game keeps the same story 
 that the console versions did, with some minor changes. The levels for obvious reasons are a tad 
 bit different than they were on the xbox, but you will still find some places that are all to framiliar. 
 This game's story is shown only through text, and the talking in the rare cutscenes. I just wish 
 that Tom would give us some voice overs in his games, now that there is some new technology out 
 on the market. There is a new level exclusive to the Nintendo DS, but the story is still the same. 
 Graphically is where this game is at its lowest point. This game although it does not look horrible, 
 is not the best looking game on the Nintendo DS at this time. This game looks a lot like Madden 
 2005 or Goldeneye: Rouge Agent, which also does not make it the worst looking game on the Nintendo 
 DS either. So graphically speaking, this game is at par with some games on the DS. There is absolutely 
 nothing special about them, but they are not horrible either. No real complaints here, atleast 
 they tried to go to 3D, and they get props for that. I will add though that the cutscnes look very 
 good. This game does have music. The music is very good, and this game does have some cool sound 
 effects. Most of the story is told through text, but however there are some voice-overs in some 
 famous cutscenes from the Xbox version, like the scene where Lambert tells Fisher in the most cheesy 
 way possible that he is going to the Big Apple. Yeah, console fans know what I am talking about. 
 The music in this game is good. There are atleast some voice-overs, so that is cool. I just wish 
 that there would have been some more music in the background, and that is all I ask. This game 
 has replay value. The only thing, is that you have to have a friend who owns the game, and be in 
 like thirty yards of each other. Yes, this game has all of the console multi-player features, from 
 mercs and spies to the new co-op gameplay, this game has it all, which is pretty cool. This game 
 is pretty cool in the area of the game, it is just to bad that there is no wi-fi yet. Oh, well 
 maybe Splinter Cell 4 will have it. This game controls perfectly, well almost. The fact that you 
 use the stylus for controling the camera is pretty cool, beacause you are actualy using it quite 
 a bit. Not to mention that picking locks is pretty fun, but the computer hacking is not there, 
 which was in my opinion, one of the coolest featuers in the console version. I absoutely loved 
 it. No complaits here. This game is fun game for those Clancy fans and people who are looking for 
 a fun action game on the DS (there are what only 2 or 3???) . The only thing that could have made 
 this game a little bit better would have been if they waited until there was wi-fi for the DS, 
 and during that time, they could have updated the graphics a little bit. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Paintballman97
Rating: 9.2
Date: Jun 18, 2007 10:57 am PT
Review:  This game was amazing. Maybe not the best graphics, but come on people. Its a hand held. The gameplay 
 was fun but difficult. The sound was ok. If u dont like the sound just turn the sound off. You dont 
 need to hear it. The touch screen went good with this game. You have to pick locks, enter keypad codes, and 
 aim with the touch screen. Its one of few games on the ds where you can actuallt shoot somebody 
 so that makes it even cooler. I mean not many games can you shoot somebody. I like mc making challenges. Alot 
 of people say it gets repetitive but they should use mc. Try completing a mission with a perfect 
 score. Do a mission where you can kill someone, but dont kill them. It makes the game alot more funner. Buy 
 this game, you wont regret it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: watzup555
Rating: 6.2
Date: Jun 4, 2007 12:07 pm PT
Review:  Splinter Cell Chaos Theory should habve been a better game. The gameplay is similar to the gameboy 
 version. The graphics are just ok. They could have been better. There is a multiplayer which is 
 just sad. It could have had wi-fi which might have added some more vaule to the game. The stylus 
 comes in handy in this game. You can aim and shot a gun, pick locks, switch visons and wepons a 
 more. But if a gurad is shootin u and u have to aim, u will probley die because the game doesnt 
 have a lock on system. Once again you play as sam fisher and are sent to peru and other places 
 to find out about a terrorist group. Some levels have been changed and are longer than the consle 
 versinos. This game is pretty good even though it has a lot of flaws. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gamefan06
Rating: 7.8
Date: Apr 14, 2007 2:33 pm PT
Review:  I've had this game for a while now, and I quite enjoy it. I'm having an incredibly hard time understanding 
 why this game gets poor reviews.
  
  Graphics: Pretty good. A little pix-ely, sure, but the DS isn't exactly a graphical power house. 
 Considering the DS's capabilities, they could have been a little better, but they still hold up 
 well enough. But what's with all this talk about slow frame rates? The only time I notice it is 
 when you switch to night/thermal vision, and since you'll probably rarely use the night vision, 
 who cares? There's also a couple cinematics taken straight from the console versions. While they 
 obviously don't look as good as they do on the consoles, they don't look bad on the DS by any means.
 
  
  Sound: Good enough. The music sounds good, though it does tend to loop a bit often. Voice work 
 is almost completely missing outside the cinematics, which feature all the original voice acting 
 from the console versions. But in the game itself, the only voice samples are two or three phrases 
 from guards. Gameplay: This is what really takes the cake here. While the levels are not as open 
 ended as the console games, it still feels exactly how a Splinter Cell game should. In fact, I'd 
 say this feels more like the first or second Splinter Cell games. But it's definitely not a bad 
 thing, as all of Sam's tricks and maneuvers from the first two games are here. All the typical 
 stealth gameplay is here, which is obviously what counts. There is also co-op and vs. modes like 
 in the console versions, but since it's only multi-card gameplay, odds are you will never play 
 it. Too bad this game came out before Nintendo Wi-Fi Connection did.
  
  Controls: Normally, I don't really talk about controls unless they're really bad. However, since 
 this seems to be what other reviews pick on the most, I'll go ahead and talk about them. Aiming 
 your gun and controlling the camera is controlled with the stylus, firing is controlled with the 
 right shoulder button, and you can walk by pressing the left shoulder button. Face buttons do the 
 basic things, like crouching, hugging a wall, an action button, etc. They aren't the least bit 
 clunky, and I have never had trouble with aiming. Just move the stylus slowly (though not too slow) , 
 and you'll be fine.
  
  Overall, this game is simply worth it. If you have ever wanted a portable Splinter Cell, then here 
 it is. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: zcds
Rating: 5
Date: Apr 11, 2007 6:21 pm PT
Review:  Whenb I first heard about this game i was really loonkig forward to it, then seeing it in the sotre 
 i thought it looked cool so i wasted $40 on this game. The first leavel was fun you get to shoot 
 people you get to sneek around you get ranked it was cool, then the 2nd mission set in then your 
 slaped with frustraiteing leavel disign, over bearing AI, and you cant shoot anyone form here on 
 out (except in the last 3 missions) The leavles are linear but yet i found my self stil lwondering 
 around wondering what the hell im suposed to do, Objectives are simple (maybe a little to simple) 
 The problem with the leavels are thers alarms set in the most angering spots, let me expaline i 
 have a hall theres a cammar at both ends one by me and one on the other side, i knock out one run 
 down the hall knock out the other and now need to unlock the door, I have about 5 secounds now 
 b4 one comes back, no way im donig that now alarms go off 3 times and it's game over, theres to 
 many moments like this, also once a gard spots you it's game over thell chase you you cant hide, 
 you cant shoot them, unles you have a sticky shooter it's game over. The game is also short even 
 thoe a mision can take up to 30 minuts and you get ranked theres only 9 missions herem kaeing it 
 an afternoon only. Multiplayer is good there co-op and vs but god luck finding some one to play 
 with it's not online. This show the ds has came a long way sence 05 we probley have a little more 
 to get to a good stealth action game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sbanhatti
Rating: 7.3
Date: Mar 10, 2007 1:54 pm PT
Review:  As the gamespot review says, this game does have a sluggish frame-rate, but this really doesn't 
 get in the way of playing the game, since it rarely happens.
  
  You are Sam Fisher, and you have to do several missions for your boss, which usually involve creeping 
 through several rooms, while climbing, picking locks, and using a variety of different moves and 
 weapons. EXTREMELY ADDICTIVE!!!
  
  The missions themselves are huge, but luckily save-points are quite frequent. You can't save anywhere, 
 save-points are activated at random points in the game, which I think is good and makes the game 
 more challenging.
  
  The graphics in this game are surprisingly good for the DS. A completely 3d world with fairly good 
 textures and okay detail. A lot of rooms are really dark, but by pressing a button on the touchscreen, 
 you can activate night vision, which is cool and very useful!
  
  Don't expect this to be as good as a ps2 game though - a bad thing about the game is the camera; 
 you can only rotate it using the touch controls. Also, as I mentioned earlier, the framerate is 
 bad- this means that it freezes for, like, a split second sometimes.
  
  If you are desperately looking for an adultish game for your DS, and are sick of babyish ones, 
 definetely give this game a go. Its honestly not that bad! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: theartist111
Rating: 5
Date: Feb 6, 2007 7:48 pm PT
Review:  okay to start of this game was just all out bad i couldn't believe how bad it was when playing 
 it, the part that was confusing me the most was that the farther you get in the game the more bland 
 and boring it gets. The first few levels ur like this is a great portable stealth game but as u 
 get farther and farther u start to say man when is this game gonna end the missions are bland and 
 uneventful the character portraits when text speech is displayed are ugly the graphics hurt to 
 look at and the framerate once you turn on the nightvision or the infared goggles is terrible not 
 only that the cutscene's taken from the console version are terrible and is presented on both screens 
 same movie....? which is completly pointless, the sound is alright but can be extremly annoying 
 and repetative as hell. the gameplay overall was boring and the use of the touch screen was unexciting. 
 so in the end i only recomend this game to people who love tom clancy or the splinter cell series 
 if your not i wish you good luck in enjoying this game 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dave7500
Rating: 7.2
Date: Dec 14, 2006 3:20 am PT
Review:  come on i dont think this splinter cell from the ds deserve such a low score.
  i have just bought this game coz is selling quite cheap now and after playing 3 stage i found it 
 quite imperssive for a ds standard and what the gamespot review say about the poor framerate and 
 sluggish graphics yes is quite true but is still dosen't really spoil the gameplay. you will usually 
 control your character by walking slowly so that you can quietly silence the enemy this is why 
 you usually dont see the poor framerate. and the graphics on sam fisher (the main character you 
 are playing) looks good at least for the ds standard but for the enemies i think they look blocky 
 but still you cant expect much from a ds. and the enviroment is also amazing again at least the 
 ds standard.
  
  the gameplay take place in fully 3-D and you can control the camera using the touch screen there 
 are also many kind of weapon and gadgets to use and all of them can help you in your mission and 
 you will realize all the weapons you can also find it from the console version. there are a total 
 of 9 stages and although it may look quite short you will actually take quite awhile to complete 
 a stage as the difficultly of the game is trurely quite hard and you will usually fail a mission 
 a few times. but overall the game is wonderful if you love action game and if you are a splinter 
 cell fan i believe you will enjoy it too!!!
  
  the only bad about this game is the use of the touch screen to aim at the enemy when you want to 
 shoot them because by the time they saw you and let you aim at them you will already taken quite 
 a few shot and if you are slower you may even die so this really need to take awhile to practice. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Wolverine517
Rating: 7.2
Date: Oct 29, 2006 2:54 pm PT
Review:  finally, a big boy game for the DS! In the wake of many kiddy titles, this one is actually an entertaining 
 teen-orientated game. More blood than GoldenEye, this is a game difficult for the younger audience 
 to pick up due to the moderate graphic violence. however, it is difficult for the olde audience 
 to put down, due to the fun this game provides. An immediate flaw you will notice in this game 
 is the difficult control scheme. A ragtag combination of touch screen and face buttons, it provides 
 more frustration than innovation. The story is similair to the console verisons, with a view visible 
 changes. The graphics are below par, and disappoint overall. The combat system does its job, and 
 delivers. The game grabs you're attention, but doesn't hold onto it. I enjoyed this game, but that 
 doesn't mean you will. Of course, it has the potential for you to enjoy it! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bansheerpg
Rating: 7.8
Date: Sep 3, 2006 3:03 pm PT
Review:  "Tom Clancy's Splinter Cells : Chaos Theory" on DS is a "Masterpiece".
  
  Graphics:
  Very impressive graphics for a portable game, especially on the DS version. Nice textures and shapes 
 are making the game fluid and enjoyable.
  
  Sound:
  A huge database of impressive sound effects is featured in the game, making everything more realistic.
 
  Unfortunately, most of the level's BGMs ( background music ) are REALLY annoying.
  
  Game Play:
  The first contact with the game is really smooth. Intelligent controls, impressive 
 Artificial Intelligence, and a huge inventory make the player want to keep playing and discover 
 more features.
  Huge levels, featuring infinite possibilities gives the player a chance to find is own path to 
 its objective.
  Sadly, the controls can get really frustrating times to times.
  
  Verdict:
  Simply awsome. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: administor
Rating: 6.7
Date: Aug 26, 2006 10:16 am PT
Review:  splinter cell ds has good graphics sound and multiplayer, sounds like 9.0 game right WRONG! why 
 this isnt for everyone? this game has A SLOW FRAMERATE! (that mean the game over all is slow) no, 
 nothing is wrong with your ds or game card its just way things are. in single player the cut- scenes 
 are amazing with xbox-based graphics and full voice over acting but in the game your gona have 
 to read. multiplayer is great except your gona have to find some with another game card but there 
 competive mode and co-op. so this game isnt the best and again gamespot is stupid for giving it 
 a 5.6 never i mean never listen to gamespot for nintendo reiews they are biased!!!!!!!!!!! they 
 hate nintendo listen to ign instead ok ign. com loves nintendo. so what i have to say is try it 
 out first or rent it before buying 
::::::

::::::
UserName: STEALTH5000
Rating: 6.8
Date: Dec 14, 2006 2:25 pm PT
Review:  I know everyone thinks this game sucks a lot, but if you're a true fan of the Splinter Cell saga, 
 then you at least could appreciate the effort the developers did in this game, even though they 
 could probably could have put a bit more of it into the game. The gameplay in the DS system is 
 very different from that of the PC, and console versions. You have a number of limited buttons, 
 so not all abilities of Sam were included in it. The levels are similar to the PC, and console 
 versions, but changed a lot of details in it. There are only nine levels, of which some can be 
 very difficult if you don't know what to do, or if you get lost. There's no map in your OPSAT, 
 so don't even think about trying that either. The graphics are fairly good, but you can't really 
 expect the DS to compete against Xbox, or PC graphics. Fisher can do the basic moves he can do. 
 He can grab an enemy, crouch, jump, run, shoot, interact with objects, and even inverted-neck snap, 
 which you won't get to do too may times. You can the SC-20K rifle, your pistol, and sometimes some 
 grenades. It's too bad that the pistol doesn't have the OCP maunted on its side. It helps a lot 
 to get around a place without being seen in the console, and PC versions of the game, but in the 
 DS version, it doesn't exist, which I really didn't like. The gameplay is quite the same, only 
 that even if an enemy passes right by you, but you're completely in darkness , he won't see you. 
 You don't have the Sound Meter either, which really DID SUCKED A LOT. If you try to give the whole 
 experience that the Xbox, and PC versions of the game delivered into a portable platform like the 
 DS, than you really need to work a lot. This is only for the developers of the game: make it a 
 bit better next time. The effort the developers did was good, but not good enough for the fans, 
 like me, to really like the game. But still, at least you can play Splinter Cell Chaos Theory while 
 you're in the car. That's fun I guess. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BeamBoy
Rating: 7
Date: Jun 28, 2006 1:01 am PT
Review:  OK,... like my annoying brother said (sammmyboy) the graphics arn't very good but i think that 
 the gameplay corrects all that,...
  
  the background story is the same as in the pc version but the levels are different ( rooms and 
 hallways and cameras...) and you can recognise conversations in the pc game.
  
  the multiplayer mode is the addictive but som times fustrating (when you're losing) part of the 
 game. the mercenary weapons are too strong cause if you hold the fire button it will kill you in 
 2 seconds. but it's cool when you can say to your enemy hey pal i got you now!
  
  so don't think you must buy it but its not a failure.... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: snoopy248
Rating: 2.3
Date: Jun 20, 2006 7:41 am PT
Review:  As a dear Splinter Cell fan myself, I can only say that this game was one of those games that was 
 a total disgrace to the Nintendo DS. I believe that this could have been a great game, but I see 
 that they just messed it up it up.
  
  Game play: As said before this game could have been great if they just spent more time on it. The 
 controls are too confusing and thats the reason I put 1 to 2 hours learning curve. Also with only 
 around 4 levels for single player, you could possibly beat it in about 1 hour. So instead I tried 
 out the multi player. The multi player was decent I must say, a lot better than single player. 
 They had the mercenary vrs spy and also had co-op. The co-op was absurdly short and really a waste 
 of time. The mercenary vrs spy was actually the best part of the game, yet it still could have 
 had more in it. Being a spy you only had around 4 tools to help you distract and confuse your opponent 
 and the mercenary only had around 3 tools to defeat the spy. 
  
  Graphics: The graphics were decent for one of the Nintendo DS's first games, but a lot of things 
 still annoyed me, like how the enemies looked and so on.
  
  Sound: Sound was horrible, there were only 3 "songs" throughout the game, including the alarm going 
 off, and they were just horrible and annoying.
  
  Value: This game is seriously not worth its value, maybe 5 dollars at most.
  
  Tilt: The only 
 replay value this game had was versus mode and that gets boring after around 4 rounds or so.
  
  So in all, just stay away from this game!
  
  Mya 
::::::

::::::
UserName: viggen13
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jun 16, 2006 11:20 am PT
Review:  Splinter Cell Chaos Theory for the Nintendo DS is as everyone says, laggy, and ugly. But, It's 
 actually a lot of fun if you look over the frame rate and like that, but it's most for fans (like 
 myself :D) .
  Controls are annoying but you are leaning it after some time.
  The multi player, versus and co-op is lot of fun, so if you want this game best if one, or more, 
 of your friends got it or else go get it with them.
  The Night Vision is awful, so are the Heat Vision so just leave that.
  Gameplay can be good and 
 bad at diffrent times but i give it 8 because of multi player.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: theluuk
Rating: 6.5
Date: May 25, 2006 9:00 am PT
Review:  TC SC: CT was the first game i bought for my DS (mario 64 ds was sold out) and i started playing, 
 it played sweet, though the camera was a bit lacking. the game has some of the best cutscenes on 
 the ds, but also the worst frame rate. don't get me wrong it is playable, but the AI is pretty 
 dumb, and sometimes you can see or actually hear the creators are lazy. i recall the missile bunker 
 level in north korea, a communistic pretty much anti-american country... and guess what every guard 
 speaks english! there are just 2 or 3 maybe 4 standard sentences for the guards and every person 
 in the game (except sam) is armed with an AK47 kalashnikov, how rare because i recall level 3, 
 NYC the national guard is at place your mission get through unseen, the guards are innocent so 
 no killing. but wait the m16 is the U. S standard weaopn right... wrong they got AK's mmmmm how 
 rare.
  
  but now the good things: swell cutscenes, 3d handheld stealth (finally) , spy gadgets, voice acting! 
 (w00t) and picking locks and using keypads had never been so fun (probably the only good touch 
 screen parts in the game) the music is great, use headphones thatll make it greater 
  
  now this game isnt so bad as they say, it's a good game. especially wenn your a noob at stealth 
 games and want 2 start playing them, cuz this game is easier then the console versions (hey the 
 DS's processors are weaker DUH so a bit more stupidity in the AI) 
  
  so if you own a DS and want to start playing stealth games, but your style is still like rambo, 
 try this!
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mule-Boy
Rating: 8.2
Date: May 20, 2006 4:51 pm PT
Review:  Spinter Cell: Chaos Theory on DS is actually really good, dispite Gamespot's review. The game still 
 follows the outline of the story from the xbox version but the levels are completely different 
 so if you have played the other versions then prepared to be surprised. Anyway, the graphics in 
 this game a pretty good, as a result of this the frame rate slows down a bit but i had no trouble 
 with that. The action still remains, guards patrolling, knocking them out, shooting them... alot 
 of stuff. The DS version though doesn't have as many cool moves to perform. Like you can't hang 
 by you legs from a pole and break a guys kneck, like you can in the other versions. The sound is 
 alright, it could be better but it is cool. Long story short, this game is pretty darn good, try 
 it! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Snipeman99
Rating: 7
Date: May 6, 2006 4:53 am PT
Review:  Okay, this game really isnt that bad, it is just totally underappreciated. Lets break it down. 
 
  
  Gameplay: The gameplay itself is surprisingly good, the only main complaint is the framerate, and 
 i really only noticed it on the main screen, when text is appearing for a com, and when you use 
 special visions. The only other con to the gameplay is that you are given a whole aresenal of moves, 
 like swat turn and the use of a knife, but they are unused. For example, you lose points by killing 
 a guard, (-100) so then whats the point of the knife? You also only use the swat turn once or twice. 
 The levels are long and are a good challenge, but be warned, you get designated saves only, no 
 quick saves. I personally cant say much about multiplayer, i have beaten the game, but no multiplayer 
 yet.
  
  Graphics: Surprisingly good for the DS, basically looks better than or equivalent to a N64, need 
 i say more? (though i wish they would improve details on your arm when you fire...) 
  
  Sound: The sound could have been a lot better, there is always the same music, the guards all the 
 same, wether in japan or france. The guards always have the same voice, guns, and sounds, this 
 category could have been soooooo much better. 
  
  Value: The game offers special unlocks, costumes, and unlimited ammo, it also offers multiplayer 
 and once you get to a certain mission, you can choose it from a list under single player. To bad 
 this game missed the WiFi train, otherwise people would probably have different opinions of this 
 game. 
  
  Tilt: Tom Clancy on the DS, need i say more? 
  
  Conclusion: The game has its bugs, and its downfalls, but it is really not that bad. If you havent 
 played a splinter cell game before, you can start here and then be more appreciative of the computer 
 version. If you are a splinter cell or clancy fan, you may want to rent it or pick it up.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: detroit_rules
Rating: 4.4
Date: Apr 28, 2006 1:02 pm PT
Review:  I hate this game!!! The aiming sucks and the graphics can get really bad sometimes. You also cant 
 do some things you could do in the other splinter cell games. ( like hang on a pole and grabbing 
 a guy) Its way to hard! In some levels it sais nothing about wat your supposed to do and then you 
 just keep going around in circles or going into places where you dont have to be and then get shot! 
 Overall you should not buy this game. If you do buy it then your just wasting ur money and once 
 you play it youll never want to play it again! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Blitz54
Rating: 6
Date: Apr 17, 2006 3:39 pm PT
Review:  Its an okay game but combined with clunky controls and not so hot graphics and a clunky camera 
 control helps knock some points off of the final score. Only hardcore Splinter Cell fans should 
 get it, but they might get pi**ed off as well. I personally didnt mind the game but its kinda diffucult 
 and as far as I know there is no DS Download play. But the fact that there is a co-op play adds 
 a couple of points. Graphics and controls and everything seems hurried, ESPECIALLY THE CAMERA. 
 I MEAN COME ON!!!!! If you open a freaking door and then accidentaly return to gameplay you can't 
 see Sam for about 5 seconds. Which can result in death if you are running away. You can really 
 see the fact they rushed the game. My advice: Rent it first and save about 30 bucks. Hardcore fans: 
 meh, you might like it you might not. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: liljakey_06
Rating: 5
Date: Apr 10, 2006 6:00 am PT
Review:  this game is good for the ds but its really tricky to play. the controls are easy to get used to 
 but the camera is very dark and hard to use. the first few levels are easy to beat but with the 
 rubbish camera its hard to complete. theres lots of extras to unlock like costumes and infinite 
 ammo. its really rubbish compared to the console versions. i suggest u rent it first or buy the 
 xbox version instead. this game is a total letdown but kind of hard. 
  
  overall this game is:
  4or5/10
  
  i say u dont get this game its just a waste of good money. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Pistol_Man
Rating: 2
Date: Jul 21, 2006 11:13 pm PT
Review:  This is the worst Splinter Cell games ever and probably the worst game I have ever played. Below 
 is the break-down of everything.
  
  Graphics: Wow. This would look great if it were on the NES! The character models, enviorments, 
 and animations are all horrible. Also, the framerate has got to be the worst I have ever seen in 
 a game. Splinter Cell DS fails miserably in this catagory.
  
  Sound: The music is grainy and repeats over and over again throughout the level. Also, when you 
 use a vision mode, the music cuts out completly. Splinter Cell DS again fails miserably.
  
  Gameplay: The controls are actually alright. You use the touch screen for the camera and to aim. 
 The problem is that it is simply boring. There is zero tension or excitement. Case in point, I 
 was playing it at night in bed. I was so board that I actually fell asleep. That's how scary boring 
 it is. Splinter Cell DS once again fails.
  
  Story: Same as Chaos Theory, which is good.
  
  Portability: The missions are rather long, but with save points often, so the play sessions 
 can be short if you only are waiting for the bus.
  
  Polish: The game has many bugs and glitches, which is a shame.
  
  Overall: This game depresses 
 me. I love Splinter Cell. I really do. This game is still simply too bad for me to enjoy. The DS 
 simply can't handle it. Hopefully the PSP iteration will be better, because a portable Splinter 
 Cell would be awsome.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sammmyboy
Rating: 5.8
Date: Mar 25, 2006 10:50 am PT
Review:  Splinter Cell Chaos Theory for the DS is as big, e-x-a-c-t-l-y as big as on every other platform. 
 Even the PC version is less huge. And maybe that's why there wasn't enough space on the DS game 
 card to put in some nice graphics...
  
  It follows the whole story of Sam Fisher trying to save the world again. And this world is big, 
 very big. Even in the game. So that's positive. But that's about the only thing.
  
  GRAPHICS: C'mon people. Is it because all of the space on the game card has been filled up by the 
 size of the environments, that the graphics and frame rate totally suck ?
  
  GAMEPLAY: Splinter Cell games have always been fun to play, given their stealth-style gameplay. 
 But, due to the framerate, this isn't fun at all.
  
  SOUND: Probably the best part of the game. Featuring the original soundtrack by Amon Tobin, this 
 music and sound effects give the game the special Splinter Cell ambience.
  
  CONCLUSION: This could have been a good game, but it isn't. If you want to play a good Splinter 
 Cell game, buy the PC or console version. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: steff3121
Rating: 6
Date: Mar 17, 2006 5:49 pm PT
Review:  Fisher goes portable, in the same story that you saw on the consoles. Nintendo had their hearts 
 in the right places, and though it has some good moments, it is bogged down by the necissitcy to 
 switch between aiming a gun and switching the camera angle. This tedious switching of the forms 
 of the game is frustrating, forcing the review down significantly. You might get some enjoyment 
 out of it, if you think of Splinter Cell as a challenge in disguise. The lockpicking is a neat 
 trick, and disarming bombs makes for an interesting point of gameplay. The many frame breakdowns 
 cause the game to falter, and the graphics don't seem worth it. With limited good things, and few 
 memorable instances, and if this is the only stealth based game for the DS, then you haven't got 
 much choice for stealth on the go. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nick7890
Rating: 8.5
Date: Mar 11, 2006 11:34 am PT
Review:  This is a really nice game and I recommend it to gamers who enjoy shooters and stealth. The game-play 
 is nice, except for the frame rate, which I got used to really fast. Messing around with the touch 
 screen can get annoying but it is not too bad. The graphics are pretty good for a DS, but some 
 things are too blocky such as the cars, the peoples faces, and some walls. The videos that you 
 see every third level have really nice and smooth graphics. The sound is alright, the music on 
 some levels are annoying and terrible. On my game during gameplay, sometimes you do not hear certain 
 sounds when you are supposed to. The campaign is great and the levels are long. The multi-player, 
 I haven't really tried it yet, but I have heard it is more fun than single player. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Canuuk
Rating: 7.1
Date: Mar 8, 2006 1:24 am PT
Review:  The Splinter Cell series are awesome. But this port to the DS falls a bit short of great but holds 
 on as good. The concept and complexity of the game have not been changed for starters. The graphics 
 and clunky controls takes a bit the fun away.
  
  Most of the missions are pretty hard and got me stuck for a while. It is also hard to achieve certains 
 tasks and missions with awkward camera angles and choppy graphics. It looks more like a badly produced 
 PSOne than anything else. 
  
  But I have to give this game credit for the challenge and its level of seriousness. It's too bad 
 you don't use the touch screen as much as other games for the portable.
  
  Overall, it's a good game to add variety in your game library, but a bit disappointing for Spliter 
 Cell fans. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: abdirauf
Rating: 7.9
Date: Feb 28, 2006 11:15 am PT
Review:  Splinter cell: Chaos Theory is an excellent game. The graphics are OK. The sound is just about 
 right but it seem as if the frame rate cannot keep up with this high octane action adventure game. 
 The frame rate is OK nearly all the time except when your scrolling through the menu and sometime 
 when your playing the actual game. The graphics could have been a bit better though. Even though 
 they are alright they are not perfect. However this does not spoil the ingame fun. For example 
 sneaking up behind people's back and grabbing them then interrogating. Then cutting off their throats. 
 Anyone who likes action adventure games and is up for the challenge will love this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cmjavier
Rating: 6.7
Date: Feb 20, 2006 12:07 pm PT
Review:  The good: The controls are easy to use. The game play will last for a while. Multiplayer is fun 
 and exciting. The nice equipment will help eliminate your enemies. The bonus outfits can be chosen 
 depending on your decision. The movies are realistic.
  The bad: Some glitches will disrupt your game play. The no kill missions are pointless. If they 
 can shoot at you, why cant you shoot back? For some reason a knocked out guard is as good as a 
 dead one. There are too little checkpoints. It is hard to aim. The controls need some getting used 
 to. You can only use your pistol while you use someone as a human shield. I recommend to rent this 
 game. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: southpaw123usa
Rating: 7.8
Date: Feb 5, 2006 1:01 pm PT
Review:  This is a fairly easy game once the controls are learned. I lost the little wrist strap the first 
 day i got my DS so the camera is a liitle hard to control. A good game but remember that not all 
 cameras are bullet proof. I went through the whiole game sticky shocking cameras and never shooting. 
 that is what got me most of the time. The graphics are pretty good for a DS game so bear with it. 
 This game would be a heck of a lot better on PSP. This game has a lot of other cool stuff like 
 the unlimited ammo and costume selection that the other console games do not have. Also the shadow 
 minitor thing can get a little wierd but overall a good game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: troll_jackal
Rating: 5.8
Date: Jan 30, 2006 6:52 pm PT
Review:  This was the second Splinter Cell game I played (1st being on X-Box) , and the lack of any real 
 stealth depth in this game makes it pretty repitive and boring after a short time.
  Graphically, rhe game is brilliant. You are able to sneak about looking flashy. Sound wise, the 
 game is mediocre, with the sounds neither adding or subtracting from the gameplay. Where this game 
 realy falls down is in terms of the lack of gameplay options available.
  From the X-Box version, you can't shoot out lights, and I couldn't do a split jump for the life 
 of me. All the gameplay is left to moving into and out of convenient shadows along a set-path, 
 and half the shadows don't even make sense in terms of where lights are positioned.
  The controls are still awkward to use to play as a first-person shooter (lie the X-box version) , 
 but the DS's seconds screen is used to clean up the top screen with the Activity Menu's appearing 
 on the bottom. Other touch screen features is a good idea, but poorly executed, way to pick locks, 
 and the ability to punch in keypad codes.
  Multiplayer looks interesting, with a semi spy and counter-spy look about it. I haven't been able 
 to play multiplayer, so I wouldn't know.
  Overall, it looks like this game was rushed to get the best graphics and the gameplay suffered. 
 It gets pretty boring with the lack of stealth options quickly.
  
  http://spaces. msn. com/members/trolljackal 
::::::

::::::
UserName: aceman101
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 11, 2006 11:46 am PT
Review:  A lot of people said that the Splinter Cell on the DS was that good, and that you should only go 
 for the PS2 or X-Box ones. But that is not true, the power that that game uses is so amazing, it 
 puts the DS to its limit. The 3-D is amazing. It is not as good as playing it on the big patforms 
 but it is still fun to go around all steathly. So if you are looking for a less then perfet but 
 still good game you should know were to look. This game is an amazing use of tech i would have 
 to say though. I think you would enjoy it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Symerwizkid22
Rating: 7.7
Date: Jan 1, 2006 2:02 pm PT
Review:  Splinter Cell Chaos Theory is a great game at the beginning. The next couple of courses are fun 
 and all... but you cannot shoot anyone (Makes it an interesting twist) It keeps you on edge and 
 it is suspensful creaping around people and putting knives to their heads. HAHA. If you pay attention 
 to the directions and save the game at every save point it should be a fairly easy game. If you 
 don't... I suggest this grest walkthrough that I found right on this site at: http://db. gamefaqs. com/portable/ds/file/chaos_theory_ds. txt
 
  
  I would buy it if you like stealthy, action packed, thrilling, and suspensful shooters. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GamerPlayer914
Rating: 3
Date: Jan 1, 2006 12:40 pm PT
Review:  Touch, But Don't Look
  
  A friendly bit of advice for anyone currently developing a DS game: Stop using the second screen 
 to house the radar or any other information gamers need to see without taking their eyes off the 
 action. 
  
  The idea sounds great in theory -- you free up space on the already tiny screen and offer a more 
 detailed radar/track map/whatever on the second one. In practice, though, it means the player has 
 to completely refocus on that second screen, ignoring for some crucial seconds what's actually 
 happening in the game. The results can be disastrous. 
  
  Chaos Theory uses the bottom screen almost entirely for hero Sam Fisher's radar system, and boy 
 is it annoying. It means the player has to go by "feel" way too much in a game where the graphics 
 and sound simply aren't up to the challenge of relaying crucial info (like which way your enemy 
 is looking or who might be coming up behind you) . Welcome to a nightmare of constant mission fails 
 thanks to a lack of accessible information. 
  
  Nimble Fingers Required
  
  The fun doesn't stop there, however. In a game as intricate as Chaos Theory on a system that lacks 
 a second analog stick -- OK, technically it lacks a first analog stick, but work with us here -- the 
 touch screen ends up doubling for multiple buttons and camera control. But again, the implementation 
 just hasn't been very well thought out. 
  
  First, the camera control is atrocious. Moving the camera at all (it doesn't react automagically 
 to which way Sam is facing) requires you to reach over with one of your thumbs and press one of 
 four different directions on the touch screen. It's almost impossible to do without taking your 
 fingers off either the directional pad or the button cluster on the right of the system, all of 
 which are used in this game. The result is like playing Helen Keller: Super Spy. 
  
  And the inconsistencies are irritating. While you'll likely use your thumbs to control the camera 
 and Sam's night vision and thermal vision modes (also touch screen buttons) , the lock-picking minigame 
 generally require you to use the stylus, thanks to the smaller contact area you'll need to touch. 
 Then there are the interact menus, which also pop up on the lower screen, which you can control 
 using the buttons, d-pad, or by touching them. 
  
  The whole thing results in a sort of weird ballet of hands, where you'll be manipulating every 
 single button on the DS while constantly stretching over to reach the touch screen, all the time 
 trying to figure out where the heck to keep the stylus until the point you might need it (I suggest 
 using your teeth) . 
  
  Pocket Spy
  
  If this review hasn't put you off of Splinter Cell on the DS so far, then you still might find 
 something to like here; you also might be a masochist. While the control issues abound, Gameloft 
 has done a good job of at least including everything that makes Splinter Cell cool. Sam's got access 
 to all sorts of gadgets, and the fully 3D world is nicely realized, if a bit muddy-looking. Picture 
 Splinter Cell on the PlayStation (the original one) , and you're on the right track. 
  
  It has to be mentioned, though, that Chaos Theory simply chugs along. The game never comes close 
 to running consistently, and wild camera swings bring it down even further. Heck, even the menus 
 on the touch screen are choppy for some reason. 
  
  Considering Chaos Theory on the DS follows the same story as its bigger, better console brothers, 
 only the most die-hard Splinter Cell fan should bother putting themselves through this portable 
 disaster. It's over-ambitious, poorly implemented control setup puts it squarely in the rank of 
 games that tried too hard to utilize the hardware rather than offer a fun, interesting experience.
 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: HaTeFaTChIcKs
Rating: 8.2
Date: Jan 1, 2006 11:51 am PT
Review:  Ok splinter cell for the xbox is one of the greatest games of all time and i love it for the DS 
 on the hand is just pretty good the gameplay is good great level design although linear still fun 
 people should stop saying thats it bad! i think it's an awesome game and if nintendo had released 
 the WFC when this launched it would have been even better. I've played this over multiplayer with 
 my friend and had a blast. this game is fun and enganging and almost every single gadget is there 
 which is amazing. this game is ssooo much fun and every splinter cell fan should own it! a a a 
 a a a a aa aa aa a a a a aa a a ajdas lkfsafj salfjsal fjsalkf jsalk; fjsla kfjslkafj slafjsla fjsla; fj 
 slafjlsak jfsl; akfj sla; fjlsad; fjsdal; fjsal; fj slafj salkfj lsa; fjlas; dfjsafjklsd lksdkjs flsjdf 
 ls jd 
::::::

::::::
UserName: vee42
Rating: 7.5
Date: Feb 11, 2006 9:44 am PT
Review:  Splinter Cell arrives on the DS, and it's good, friggin touchdown. This games visuals are an upgraded 
 version of the N-Gages so ya it's still gonna look bad for a DS game but it has a higher polygon 
 count then I had expected it to the only downside is the sluggish framerate, at parts, and the 
 textures are pixelated because of the bigger screen on the DS. The gameplay takes some getting 
 use to (except for the fps controls in multiplayer) , with the feature of shooting lights taken 
 out from it it makes it harder. The sound is crisp and well put while I still stand by Goldeneye 
 for the best sound on the DS this is in my top 20 at least. This game is one of the longer DS games 
 in fact it's so long the first time around it feels like you're playing a console version. Trust 
 me this is a good game while not stellar in my opinion it is worth checking out. Remember patience 
 is a virtue so deal with the damned frame rate you whiny *%&^$#$@$%%@$%%%@! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: deadmeat59
Rating: 7
Date: Dec 18, 2005 6:07 pm PT
Review:  to tell you the truth i hate most ubi or ea games. but this game i liked it maybe buggy and abithard 
 to get used to but its a good game the grahics are in 3d unlike most ds games the controlls are 
 a bit kool once you get use to it and if you can find a used vertion you could buy it for under 
 20$ and its well worth it. i hated spinlter cell but now i love it on ds. u will like the game 
 if you like the console one . ubi and ea have not made many good games on ds i liked ubi and ea 
 untill the garbage they put out on ds and psp but this game is good they could have made it better 
 i will give you that but its a great game . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Netty500
Rating: 5
Date: Nov 22, 2005 1:50 pm PT
Review:  When I bought this game, I was so happy. I thought this game would be very fun, very immersive. 
 But what I found was a broken, buggy port of the great console games.
  
  You are Sam Fisher, but who really cares? This game is horrible. You'll have all sorts of tools 
 and gadgets to, once again, save the world from virtual terriorists. But like I said, who really 
 cares? This game is horrible.
  
  The graphics are good for the DS. They can seem buggy at times because of it's below 30 framerate 
 (Ew.) So I give it props for good graphics. But the graphics aren't much to talk about. The animations 
 and lighting in this game aren't very good. You can't shoot out lights anymore. What is up with 
 that? And, even when I'm sitting in a low shaded place, I'm still invisible, so you really don't 
 need the night vision they gave you for this game. Besides, the night and heat vision only drop 
 the framerate to a most unplayable game. Never attempt to use those gadgets, they're useless in 
 the port, anyway. The game does include a few cutscenes taken right from Chaos Theory, but that 
 doesn't exacly matter nor does it help this port from being a good game.
  
  The music in Chaos Theory is very good. You still have the great Amon Tobin from the original. 
 The gaurds still have voice, it's just that Lambert and Sam don't in-game. I wish I could hear 
 Sams voice in this game, but it turned into a text based gadget the Opsat did. Sucks for Sam, I 
 heared his deal is 1 dollar per message!
  
  So, there you have it. A low score to a poor, buggy game. What else is new? Go play Splinter Cell: 
 Chaos Theory on the Xbox/PC and leave this game in the trash. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Orochi_Ryu
Rating: 5.8
Date: Nov 14, 2005 7:07 pm PT
Review:  Realmente veo este juego como una obligacion, no como una joya, contrario a las entregas anteriores 
 en consolas de mesa, aunque se que pudo haber sido mejor.
  
  Graficamente el juego es un poco aceptable, aunque se pudo haber trabajo mas en el, parece un juego 
 de la talla de EA, corre a unos 25 FPS, muy innestable, y en algunas ocaciones se tienen las relentisaciones, 
 principalmente al usar uno de los visores.
  
  El sonido es deprimente, no supieron aprovechar en nada lo que NDS les ofrecia, no fue trabajando 
 y las voces de los enemigos suena bastante nomotona, las pisadas ni se sienten.
  
  El GamePlay se siente bastante pesado, es una lastima, porque se pudo sacar mucho del Nintendo 
 DS para mejorar el gameplay, es mas, se sienten como si los menus en la pantalla tactil se mas 
 una obligacion que una ayuda.
  
  Al final el juego resulto ser un fracaso, espero que para una posible proxima entrega puedan ponerle 
 mas corazon al tan excelente juego de espionaje. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: skullkrusher9
Rating: 8
Date: Aug 3, 2005 9:26 pm PT
Review:  Splinter Cell is finally landing on the DS in full 3D. For it being the first 3D on a handheld, 
 it does a very good job.
  
  Gameplay: The gameplay is very fun, despite what many people say. You have a variety of gadgets 
 at your disposal to give you a number of ways to tackle a situation. Although some gadgets are only 
 supposed to be used in one way, you can actually use each of them in different ways. Take the Sticky 
 Camera for example, it is just supposed to give you a way to check out areas. It can also be used 
 to knock out an enemy if you shoot them at the right place. Just like every other Splinter Cell 
 game, you have to be stealthy to take on each mission. More than half of the time, you will be sneaking 
 through out the levels, getting near your enemies and interrogating them or disposing of them. Doing 
 this can be very enjoyable. At times, the game can get slightly frustrating since you can't save 
 at will and having to restart some parts in the game several times. Many people say the framerate 
 is a big problem. The only times it really is is when you use the visions. The controls might be 
 uncomfortable, but if you straighten yourself with the camera, the controls are fine. Something 
 unexpected is there is Co-op and a Versus mode. Although I never played them yet, I heard they were 
 both fun.
  
  Graphics: Compared to some other DS games, the graphics are pretty good. The only set of to them 
 is that some of the textures aren't done too well. Besides that, that is the only problem with how 
 the game looks.
  
  Sound: Something might feel amiss with the sound. There are no voice overs through out the game. The 
 music might get repetitive sometimes because the same soundtrack plays through out the levels in 
 a continuous loop (Each level does have a different soundtrack, though) . The music suddenly turns 
 off when you put a vision on.
  
  Value: Just what you would expect from a handheld Splinter Cell. Unlike the Console version, there 
 are unlockables, such as different suits. This is a very nice touch to the game. You will have a 
 fun experience that shouldn't be missed. It is a great game to add to your DS collection.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: mik19
Rating: 7.9
Date: Jul 8, 2005 5:16 pm PT
Review:  Gameplay 9- This game was plain fun. If i died or lost the level i wouldn't get ticked easily. 
 And i would try the level again from my last savepoint. This game has good controls. Don't know 
 why peoplesaid it was bad. 
  Graphics 6- The graphics hardly used the DS graphics right. The gun fire looked to 2d.
  The people 
 look too much like triangular oragami, and the camera got to u eventually.
  But overall it was 3d at least.
  Sound 7- The sound was good. When the gaurds spotted u they 
 say something to tell u they r after u. Sometimes they even say stupid things. LikeI must be 
 Paranoid."
  orIt must of been nothing".
  Value 8- this game ment alot to me. Because it belongs to the adulthood. Rated Teen for Blood, Violence, 
 and Mild Language. Overall i wouldn't stop playing. Till i beat the game.
  This game also ahs secrets.
  Tilt 8- This game was a good experience for the DS. If u want a 
 T rated game get this one. (Don't get it if u get irritated with games easily) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Reptile711
Rating: 7
Date: Jul 8, 2005 5:44 am PT
Review:  You know, Splinter Cell did not do good on the Gamecube. And what more can you expect if it's a 
 dumbed down version on the DS? Not really much anything except a worse game. That's what many expect. 
 Splinter Cell, in my opinion is far better than the Gamecube version. I'll tell you why.
  
  Gameplay:
  The whole game is not based on action. It's a stealth espionage game. You're not really 
 supposed to kill people, in which some might say Splinter Cell is about killing people. The DS 
 Splinter Cell adds much more espionage-esque material in this game, using the stylus and the whole 
 work of the game play. You basically solve puzzles using your Stylus for different actions and 
 you are basically hiding from everybody. This adds suspense and thrill to the game, and that is 
 what makes it fun.
  
  Graphics:
  While the gameplay is very good overall, these graphics are by far off better on a 2D side scrolling 
 videogame. The framerate is about the chugging framerate of the N-gage version, which is pretty 
 bad at a 18 fps. The models are nice and the textures are great, but the graphics overall seemed 
 rushed.
  
  Sound:
  Energetic ambience is in this game. It's a much better soundtrack than Golden Eye Rogue Agent for 
 the DS. But it get's extremely boring and annoying as you play for several hours. Listening to 
 N64 graphics for about 2 hours really make the ears bleed.
  
  Value:
  It's not worth your 40 dollars. It's best if you try it out first. If you do like it, if you like 
 better gameplay than graphics, than I suggest you to buy this game. But if you're all about power, 
 than don't waste your time renting it.
  
  Overall:
  This is a great example of gameplay over graphics. It shows how intuitive and creative the DS can 
 be with its stylus, but the graphics are a major letdown that should've been delayed to rework 
 the graphics. Understandably, this game is very iffy at some points, but in overall, it's a game 
 that will keep you playing (until your ears bleed of course.) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lee_2k4
Rating: 8.6
Date: Jul 5, 2005 7:00 pm PT
Review:  This is basically like the console version but the levels are completely different and can sometimes 
 be harder than the Xbox version. The graphics are really good for the DS but it's zoomed in so 
 the graphics dont look too good. The gameplay is also good but with the touch screen i prefer using 
 the thumb strap because you can drag it along the radar to move the camera or press the buttons 
 on the touch screen. The game is a bit buggy because sometimes when you put a body down it goes 
 through the wall but it usually puts it next to the wall just incase but sometimes it doesn't. 
 If you want a new DS game then you should buy this!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: B-bad
Rating: 8.3
Date: Jul 3, 2005 2:40 pm PT
Review:  This is a fun game that has been put in a bad light since most reviewers are comparing this game 
 to Chaos Theory on the consoles, it not on the same level but what's there is fun. Instead of ub 
 soft/Gamelots trying to follow the console/pc version of the game they took the story and set it 
 in a different direction giving the game a feel more like the first Splinter Cell than Chaos Theory 
 which is the third game in the serious, this game is all about stealth the controls are not set 
 up for run and gun game play. 
  
  Graphic in this handheld version are good and have a nice level of detail, they even use the different 
 vision modes. There are so rough spots like the frame rate but since the game is about stealth 
 and not speed it never a issue if you take it slow.
  
  Sound in this game are good...... sorry but there are no voice overs in this version but the level 
 sound and affect are all nicely done. Especially the sound of cutting someone neck with the knife.
 
  
  This game is a good Value for the fan of Splinter Cell, it was fun to have the ability to have 
 this kind of game on the go. It has a great single player campaign mode that long ang fun. Plus 
 they even added the 2 player co-op and the 4 player spy vs merc and there are unlockables hidden 
 in the game.
  
  The Game play in this version of Chaos theory is great not what you'll expect from a handheld version 
 of a game of this type. While it has changed some area of the game from the console version the 
 story is still there for the most part. Level are done in a linear manner and the control favor 
 stealth over run and gun..., aiming and overall camer control are done on the touch screen. For 
 that matter so are some key other features like checking your on-sat, switching version modes, 
 checking inventory and switching weapons, unlock doors, entering code on key pads yeah sounds like 
 alot but they are all nicely done and the touch screen is very responsive. Oh here's a trip aiming 
 can be done with the d-pad while using the scope on the rifle.
  
  This is a solid version of Splinter Cell for a handheld and really should not be compared with 
 the console version of the game. This game offer a great story, great control once you get use 
 to it, and a overall good experience for fans of the console versions or for someone looking for 
 a good stealth game on the go. Plus the two multiplayers modes are fun to play but do require all 
 player to have copies of the game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cpke122
Rating: 8.6
Date: Jul 2, 2005 6:41 pm PT
Review:  The game starts with a kidnapping of one of your men. You'll have to save him on an island with 
 your stealth-abilities. 
  
  Gameplay: 9/10
  
  The gameplay of Splinter Cell C. T. is good, but it has a few shortcomings like you move very clunky, 
 you don't have any souplesse. The moves though are very good, just like the duration of the game. 
 I finished the second mission the second day I had the game (it's really not simple!) , and damn, 
 the A. I. is high... if you're right behind an enemy they can hear, see you etc... when they spotted 
 you they come after you, and many more things... 
  
  + Moves - Clunky Moving
  + Missions - Only Nine Missions
  + High A. I.
  
  Graphics: 8/10
  
  The 10 disappears because 
 of the frame rate, it's not bad but it's a bit clunky, it's not like the PC- or Consoleversion. 
 Even the 9 disappears because of the blocky graphics, if it were graphics like Super Mario 64 and 
 not that dark, it would've been much better!
  
  - Not Detailed
  - Low Framerate 
  
  Sound: 8/10
  
  Not bad, but sometimes it's like the voices of your enemies who stand right 
 next to you are like sounds from a walkie talkie or something... But, the whole soundtrack has 
 been put into the DS version, and it's done very well.
  
  - Walkie Talkie Sound
  - Complete Splinter Cell Chaos Theory Soundtrack
  
  Value: 8/10
  
  Ok, I played the game 
 now for two days and I finished two missions out of 9. So I'm wondering, will the next missions 
 be tougher or is this everything there is? I think the answer is yes because the second mission 
 was about 2x tougher than the first one, it was a completely different... I could not yet test 
 the multiplayer, but from what I've heard, it would just be an add-on but not great. But when you 
 like to play adventure games or action games, you can play this game again and again, it's that 
 fun! 
  
  + Every Mission Is Much Harder
  - Not Many Missions
  
  Reviewers Tilt: 8/10
  
  For the Splinter Cell-fans out there who got a DS, I say, go to the 
 shop and definitly rent this game! If you like it, buy it! 
  If you're not a fan, I'd say, gather some information, check some footages here at GameSpot and 
 if you like it, then rent it for sure!
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: GaryFeltner
Rating: 6.6
Date: Jun 30, 2005 5:03 pm PT
Review:  The toughest part of this game is getting used to the controls. The excellent training mission 
 helps a lot with this. I find myself needing to play a lot of the time with the stylus in my mouth 
 so that both of my hands are free. :-)
  
  Overall, a pretty fun experience so far. The graphics are very "buggy," as I have seen the main 
 character's torso sticking partially through a door and an open fuse box. However, these don't 
 seem to detract too much from the fun. I haven't tried the multi-player mode, but can give a hearty 
 "thumbs up" to the single player mode so far. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: misteros
Rating: 8.1
Date: Jun 30, 2005 4:34 am PT
Review:  I have been playing Splinter Cell games since the first one came out, so believe me I was very 
 happy when Ubisoft announced Splinter Cell Chaos Theory for the DS, a fully 3D Splinter Cell game. 
 So when it came out I went to pick it up on its first day, despite some bad reviews, when I started 
 playing I found that problems I thought I could overcome were not so easy to forget about. But 
 then I found that this was still a very functional, fun, 3D Splinter Cell game.
  The game seems to suffer from two major problems, a choppy frame rate and some bothersome controls. 
 The control scheme can not be changed in almost any way and leads to some really slow reaction 
 times on the players part, which can be bad when you are being shot at and need to take out your 
 gun. It just isnt as easy to switch from buttons to touch screen. This problem is only worse in 
 multiplayer because people arent as forgiving as the computer controlled characters.
  The frame rate is also not easy to overlook it really makes the game seem less realistic, and also 
 less fun. Luckily any major frame rate problems, which tend to be when you go from one area of 
 a level to another, are all wisely put where there wont have to be any fast reactions. If you 
 use night vision or thermal you will be treated to some incredible eye candy, but the frame rate 
 will go to enough of a crawl that you cant use it in any combat situations or in any timed parts 
 of the game.
  These two problems are not possible to just ignore but it would be much better if they were not 
 accompanied by plenty of little things as well. For example you can tell how much ammo you have 
 left, but not how much is loaded in your gun. There is the omission of some really essential moves 
 like the elbow attack. Also if you put a body too near a wall the game will automatically move 
 it away so it doesnt stick through it (even though it sometimes does) but it moves the bodies 
 way to far, so they are in the middle of the room and you have to hide them again. Also the 40 
 dollar price tag is by no means a wonderful addition.
  In order to make it possible to sneak up on guards you have to hold the L button to change from 
 moving quickly to sneaking, but if you move slowly, Sam isnt going fast enough to catch a guard 
 walking along at the most leisurely pace, making it almost impossible to grab guards so you have 
 to resort to using your guns more then you would like. Also save points are unwisely positioned 
 right before long cinematic (that can be skipped but if you skip them there is a load time) or 
 long load times. There also arent enough of these making to much of the game trying the same thing 
 over again.
  The music in the game is really good for a portable game. All of the songs sound nice, and dont 
 sound digitalized at all. Also every single level has its very own song so you dont have to hear 
 the same one endlessly. Unfortunately they are a little bit short and loop for the duration of 
 the level unless you are detected in which case they are replaced by a much more intense song and 
 then come back as soon as its over.
  The movies in the game are really incredible. They are full of neat moments that keep you on the 
 edge of your seat. Sadly though the voice acting is non-existent, except for a guards yelling did 
 you hear something? or some other equally mindless quote. Despite rumors of the sound getting 
 messed up I have never seen this happen, lots of sounds can come out of the speakers at once and 
 it plays fine.
  The lighting in the game is really amazing, but it probably causes the annoying frame rate. Other 
 then just that the game is full of great looking graphics, but some of the animations are sloppily 
 done, some textures are ugly and sometimes dead bodies stick through walls. Thats right this game 
 DOES NOT feature rag doll physics, ignore the rumors it does not have them. The game has a good 
 balance of light and darkness and is by no means too dark.
  This is a pretty lengthy game, with 8 missions, and it rates you after every mission so you can 
 go back and play it again to try to do better. It apparently has two difficulty levels (although 
 I havent found out how to change them) and is a challenge. The multiplayer modes are fun and not 
 nearly as unbalanced as people might lead you to believe.
  In the end, Splinter Cell Chaos Theory for the Nintendo DS is a great game, and despite a long 
 list of problems it still plays great most of the time and is a total blast. Its great to be able 
 to carry Sam Fisher around in your pocket, and is the total Splinter Cell experience. If you didnt 
 like being a splinter cell on the consoles, you will hate being one on the DS.
  
  GAMEPLAY- Its splinter cell, and no amount of glitches can change that, its fun, its challenging, 
 its interesting, and if you love Splinter Cell then youll love this
  GRAPHICS- The lighting is amazing and it has some great graphics to show off, but a few graphical 
 errors and a bad frame rate really make it look much less impressive.
  SOUND-Even if it is repetitive you are getting a lot of really good situation appropriate music, 
 but without voice acting in the movies the game feels a little empty.
  VALUE-Its lengthy, buts stays fresh and its fun the whole time. There are things to make you want 
 a second run through, but too much backtracking and the other previously mentioned glitches make 
 it a little bit tough to bring up the courage play again. 
  TILT- Its Splinter Cell and I love it, and if you like Splinter Cell you will too, but the glitches 
 may be too much for you. Even if you dont know too much about Splinter Cell considering picking 
 this one up, its the first good game for the DS marketed at adults.
  
  o btw dont listen to reviews on a lot of sites they must be playing a different game
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: SpacePlace
Rating: 8.4
Date: Jun 29, 2005 3:57 pm PT
Review:  SP: CT DS
  Gameplay: 
  The gameplay in Splinter Cell Chaos theory DS is good for a portable game, but its not as fluent 
 as the console, or pc versions. This is to be expected. Moving around using the D-pad is a bit 
 more difficult, and you cant get that gripped feel like using a control stick. There are many different 
 moves in SC, like the exclusive swat turn. These moves will help you get past enemies by not harming 
 them. But, the game is even more expanded past that. The game includes plenty of lethal moves, 
 using Sam's new toy, the knife. The touch screen serves good purposes, such as holstering and drawing 
 your weapons, changing the many vision modes Sam has, and using the camera. You can use the touch 
 screens arrows to rotate the camera, or "touch" and drag. The camera rarely moves into a bad angle, 
 and when it does its easily fixable. The camera is going to be moved alot, but the stylus or thumb 
 pad controlled camera still adds a nice touch to the game. 
  
  Graphics: 
  Excellent, excellent excellent. That basically can some up the style of graphics in SC. The worlds 
 are filled in with beautiful lighting and shadow effects. Sam looks darn good on the pixelated 
 portable too. Though the enemies don't have a broad selection of faces, most of the time you dont 
 want Sam looking straight at the face of an enemy guard, so its not much of a problem. the game 
 uses a mixture of rag doll and pre-animated motions. Either way the games ability to do these things 
 without dropping the framerate (Too much) simply amazes me. But the framerate is not the best in 
 the world. There could be more improvements, but it doesnt really effect the overall gameplay. 
 Also the character motions are done excellently and you can see the lighting detail in all its 
 3-D glory. The lands aren't really detailed besides the light and shadow effects, making them seem 
 a bit blan, but, its take off some unnoticeable things, or drop the frame rate. 
  
  Sound: 
  I don't have much against the music. Its just average. But hearing the same song through 
 the entire level until someone notices you, or they spotted you, can be a little annoying. But 
 UBIsoft was nice enough to at least play a different song in each level. There are no voice overs. 
 Your gonna have to go back to reading text. (sorry) They've used a MGS style of putting a "!" mark 
 above the head of the enemy that has noticed you, to replace hearing "What was that?"
  
  Replayablity:
  If you don't know what the replay value on this game is, Lem'me tell you, Spies 
 vs. Merc. and Co-op. Spies Vs. mercenaries is all out was between the ruthless killing machines, 
 the Argus Mercenaries, and the cunning silent SHADOWNET spies. The Mercenaries play in the first 
 person format from the console and PC versions. They use the stylus to control gun movements, and 
 the D-pad to strafe, and walk forward and back. The SHADOWNET spies, control exactly like Sam Fisher. 
 They use cunning skills to sneak up on real players, which let me tell you, is much more difficult 
 then trying to do it on NPC's. Cooperative play is a new astounding gameplay mechanic, that allows 
 2 people to play the role Sam Fisher plays. But there a catch. One person must play as the Hacker, 
 and the other, The Assault spy. You must work together, or neither person will be able to beat 
 the entire Co-op mission (s) by themselves. This truly isn't bad, but it will come in for that argument 
 of "I wanna be the assault guy!"
  
  Worth 40 bucks?: Indeed, once youve played the game your probably gonna want to beat it. The Co-op 
 missions span 5 levels, and Single spans 8. 
  
  -Suggestion-
  Instead of usig the stylus to move the camera and aim and shoot, its much easier to use the thumb 
 strap!
  
  OVERALL 
  +Great Visuals
  +Excellent replay value
  +Brings the entire sound track from SC: CT console and PC to the NDS
  -No voice-overs
  -Only 
 one control scheme that can't be altered.
  -Frame rate Problems when switching from from a different environment 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
