-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Tony Hawk's Proving Ground
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/ds/sports/tonyhawksprovingground/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 Loads and loads of real world tricks and transitions to see and learn.
 Can customize your own character and edit his moves to an extent.
 Story mode offers a wider variety of challenges than Sk8land did.
 Online mode offers Web site integration and clan support.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 May seem like just more of the same if you're tired of Tony Hawk.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Oct 24, 2007
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 8
Critic Score: 7.8, 19 Review (s)
User Score: 7.8, 183 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Activision
Developer: Vicarious Visions
Genre: Skateboarding
Date: Oct 15, 2007
ESRB: Everyone 10+

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
More variety, more customization, and better multiplayer make this the best portable Tony Hawk game 
 yet. 

  If you've been keeping up with the Tony Hawk series on the DS, you'll recall that the previous 
 game, Downhill Jam, shifted the focus from linking sick tricks together in free-roam skate parks 
 to doing so in claustrophobic downhill courses. That experiment must not have been popular with 
 the powers that be because the newest game, Tony Hawk's Proving Ground, takes the series back to 
 its open-ended roots. You can build your own custom skater and skate park in the story mode, as 
 well as tackle challenges for up to seven skate parks in the classic mode. You can also try to 
 outscore other players in the wireless or online modes all while exploring the surrounding environment 
 and performing tricks at your own whim or pace.  

  Performing realistic tricks and learning how to link them together into monumentally lengthy chains 
 has always been the hallmark of the Tony Hawk series. And that aspect is definitely in full force 
 in Tony Hawk's Proving Ground. As you manipulate the D pad and ride your board around one of the 
 game's expansive 3D skate parks, you'll notice plenty of edges, rails, ramps, quarter pipes, or 
 other interesting surfaces with which to interact. Literally every button on the system is put 
 to use to let you go wild on those surfaces. If you key in a button sequence in the air or near 
 an edge, your onscreen persona will kick, grab, grind, or handplant just as you've indicated. When 
 you're falling back to solid ground, you can initiate a transitional move, such as a footplant, 
 revert, or manual, to keep the combo multiplier growing while you speed toward the next ramp or 
 rail. Wall slides, wallplants, and spine transfers also let you change course without breaking 
 your trick chain.  

           When you fly off a roof then trigger a photo opportunity, you have to draw lines and circles 
 on the touch screen to perform gesture tricks.      

  In addition to using the buttons to perform various tricks, you can tap spots on the touch screen 
 when your style meter is full to execute special tricks, activate a slow-motion effect, or bail 
 out into a temper tantrum minigame. Special tricks are high-risk, high-reward tricks that can be 
 performed while grinding in midair or during a manual. As you'd expect, the slow-motion effect 
 gives you more hang time, which in turn means you have more time to link kicks and grabs together. 
 The last option, the temper tantrum, is a bizarre ability that's taught to you by Bam Margera in 
 the story mode. Basically, if your style meter is full and you're about to land on your face, you 
 can distract the judges with a tantrum to hold onto the points you'd otherwise lose. It isn't very 
 realistic, but it sure is entertaining.  

  Getting the hang of the controls does take a while mainly because there are dozens upon dozens 
 of skater moves and tricks to learn. However, the controls are laid out logically and never feel 
 unwieldy. It merely takes time for every button's purpose to become ingrained. To that end, the 
 lesson tutorials and the challenges the pro skaters give you in the story mode will gradually lead 
 you through the basics to the finer points of spooling out massive combos.  

  The story mode in Proving Ground is set up similarly to the story mode in previous games, in that 
 you roam around looking for pro skateboarders and then try to complete the tasks they ask of you. 
 These tasks vary in difficulty and provide different levels of cash reward for how well you complete 
 them. For example, if you're told to follow the camera crew around, you'll get more money for performing 
 15 tricks on cue than you will for 10. Every time you accomplish a certain number of tasks, you'll 
 unlock a new skate park and another pro skater will start appearing in all of the parks you've 
 opened up to that point (giving you additional challenges to complete) . A neat part of this game's 
 story mode is that you actually get to outfit one of the parks with ramps, rails, and other structures 
 of your choice. Another sweet aspect is how the game makes the distinction between hardcore and 
 career-style pro skaters. By setting out to complete tasks doled out by skaters from a specific 
 discipline, your own custom character will learn moves unique to that discipline. In short, you 
 have some control over how your park and skater develop.  

  As always, if you simply want to pick a pro skater and forgo the story, Tony Hawk's Proving Ground 
 offers the standard timed classic mode that has been with the series since its inception. For each 
 park, you're given a list of goals and two minutes during which you need to complete as many goals 
 as possible. Goals include scoring milestones, as well as gap and transfer challenges. They also 
 include collecting things like video tapes and the letters that spell "S-K-A-T-E." It isn't possible 
 to accomplish all of the goals in a single run, which means there's some incentive to replay each 
 park multiple times to complete the overall checklist. If you've played a Tony Hawk game in the 
 past, you'll realize the developers haven't done anything to tinker with how the classic mode in 
 this game works. Just about the only new option is the ability to save a run from each park as 
 a "video" clip that you can watch later. These clips also play randomly when you leave the game 
 sitting idle at the menu screen.  

           Fictional skate parks set in such places as Baltimore or Chicago provide plenty of ramps, 
 rails, and even a space shuttle or two.      

  Whatever you say about the previous game, Downhill Jam, it did at least offer a solid multiplayer 
 mode with a good selection of match types suitable for as many as four players in both local and 
 online connections. Tony Hawk's Proving Ground builds on that solid foundation. You can link up 
 with players locally or through Wi-Fi and compete in any of 10 different competitions. There are 
 the usual suspects: score challenges, endurance challenges, and eliminations. There are also unique 
 types, such as horse and red light/green light. Red light/green light is a goofy contest in which 
 points are gained by performing tricks when the light is green and lost by performing them when 
 the light is red. Matches played online over Wi-Fi are a little jittery but totally playable. Furthermore, 
 if you play against people on your friend code list, you can voice chat during the match. Without 
 a doubt, the best thing Proving Ground offers over Downhill Jam in terms of online functionality 
 is integration with the game's official Web site. You can look at stats, join a clan, and participate 
 in tournaments. Also, your status will occasionally result in rewards being transferred back into 
 the game.  

  For the most part, Proving Ground looks and sounds just like Tony Hawk's American Sk8land did two 
 years earlier. That's not a negative because the polygon-rendered characters still look decent 
 and the 3D environments still pack plenty of detail. The behind-the-back viewpoint and smooth frame 
 rate haven't changed either. What has changed, though, is the style of the graphics. They don't 
 have the cartoonlike cel-shaded outlines anymore. Now, they look crisp and realistic -- or as realistic 
 as the limited polygon output of the DS allows. You'll see better renditions of skaters, such as 
 Tony Hawk and Bob Burnquist in your lifetime, but these are fine. Skate fans will also appreciate 
 the brief video clips showing the game's pro skaters in action doing what they do best. As for 
 the audio, the digitized groans and board effects sound spot-on, while the 13 different grunge 
 music tracks provide a fitting soundtrack. You'll hear tracks from Foo Fighters, Nirvana, and Smashing 
 Pumpkins, among others.  

  All told, Tony Hawk's Proving Ground is a "classically" styled Tony Hawk game that, for better 
 or worse, doesn't really bring anything new to the Tony Hawk experience. Instead, it simply layers 
 more variety, customization, and polish on top of everything that people loved from earlier installments. 
     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (14 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: wiredscotty
Rating: 8
Date: Mar 14, 2009 4:44 pm PT
Review:  Remember when skateboarding was only done by facetious little punks who all dropped out of high 
 school? Well I do. When I was a kid, skateboarding was like vandalism. It was noisy, and unwelcome, 
 and if you saw skateboarders, chances are you thought they wanted to spit on you, rob you, or perform 
 terrible acts of sexual aggression upon you. 
  
  My how the times have changed. 
  
  Now skateboarders are revered and thought of as role models. They make incredible amounts of money. 
 They're famous. And some even have video games named after them. Like this one. Tony Hawk's proving 
 ground. 
  
  Now I haven't played many skatey games... and those I did play were always a little... meh. And this 
 one should really be no different. It has all the usual, typical, cliche stuffs that all skate 
 games have. You try to collect things. You do tricks. You talk to professionals and they get you 
 to do unspeakable acts for money.... all of that is in this game. But for some reason, it feels 
 a little... funner than usual (is "funner" a word?... i guess chances are if you are reading this 
 review, you don't know either... you skateboard punks) .
  
  Maybe it's the amount of skater-creater options available. You can pick from dozens of pre-made 
 characters... or create your own. You can even paint your own design on your clothes and deck! How 
 cool is that?
  
  Or maybe it's the incredible amount of tricks you can perform... and how it actually feels GOOD 
 to pull them off. I could play on the half pipe for hours, or do rail tricks all day and not get 
 bored.
  
  It could be the levels. You play on the east coast in some of the most despised, rundown, and forgotten 
 post-industrial cities in the U. S. A.... cities like Baltimore. And they look great! And not only 
 that, but they feel great. I mean, I got to skateboard through a friggin museum and on a space 
 shuttle! Take that America!
  
  Maybe it's just the general attitude of the game. It feels so fun and devil-may-care and graffiti-esque. 
 It really does an excellent job of capturing the culture of skateboarding. From the presentation 
 and overall theme of the game right down to every song in the soundtrack. 
  
  And what is really amazing is all the stuff they fit onto the little cartridge for the DS. It's 
 just incredible the sheer amount of stuff they put in this game! Tons of bonuses to unlock, your 
 own skatepark, and your own pad that you can slowly fill up with junk! It's just a huge game.
 
  
  So overall, the game does what any other skating game does... but it does it really well with a 
 hefty dose of fun, uniqueness, and attitude.... basically everything a game like this SHOULD have, 
 but very few actually do. I guess the only thing really missing from the game is the option to 
 have the skaters spit on pedestrians, rob citizens, and perform terrible acts of sexual aggression 
 on innocents.....
  
  Maybe in the next game.... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hi0
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 26, 2009 6:23 pm PT
Review:  It is a lot more realistic than Tony Hawk American Sk8land, because it does not have that same 
 animated touch.
  
  GAMEPLAY:
  Really good. You can still use the touch specials if you wish. You can bust really big combos, 
 but somehow, in my opinion, Sk8land was easier to make big combos. There is a new move, similar 
 to a manuel and a revert, it is called an Aggro Kick. You can do one at a time. It helps you connect 
 tricks; it's hard to explain. The gameplay is really good.
  
  SOUND:
  Really good sound track. Some of the songs are:
  "Banned in DC"
  "Come On"
  "Tarantula"
 
  The music is pretty much all heavy and entergetic punk.
  
  GRAPHICS:
  Really good. The levels are really smooth and realistic, much like the skater. It doesn't look 
 animated like Sk8land did (doesn't look life real life, like the console versions) . It is different 
 but in a good way.
  LEVELS:
  I really like the format of the levels. The are very realistically layed out. It has lots of ramps 
 and grinding areas so it is very fun to play over and over again!
  
  OVERALL:
  Very fun game. I reccomend it. It is a little harder than Sk8land, but fun! I think it is best 
 for long time Tony Hawk game fans. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Tiigon
Rating: 6.5
Date: Dec 26, 2008 7:35 am PT
Review:  Tony Hawk's Proving Ground for NDS is not a bad game. The graphics, sounds, controls, level desing 
 and pretty much everything is good. But, one thing isn't and it's enough to crush everything else: 
 difficulty. This game is way too easy. And it's short too. There are lots of goals, but most of 
 them are so easy that you can complete them in 1-2 minutes or even quicker. You can easily do combos, 
 but sadly even a bit too easily. It's not hard to make a 5 million points combo with the "touch 
 specials". They are special tricks that are used by touching a button on the touchscreen. They 
 are way too easy to use and give a huge amount of points. Total fail.
  
  Anyway, this game is rather fun on Wi-Fi. Huge amount of game modes (many from the old games, such 
 as horse, score challenge and so on, and a few new ones too) makes this the best part of this game. 
 The only downside is that sometimes it's hard to get players.
  
  Buy THPG only if you have played the earlier games first. Or borrow it from a friend to test it. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: KFlip
Rating: 8.5
Date: Aug 7, 2008 5:59 pm PT
Review:  This game is really great has good graphics and tricks...
  
  Good things about Tony Hawk's Proving Ground (THPG) : the tricks, just right for controls and difficulty,
 
  great sound track,
  Very fun if you like that stuff,
  Pretty good unlockables
  
  Bad things for Tony Hawk's Proving Ground: First of all the graphics they are too "pixelated" as 
 some of you might say,
  Little bit of WiFi and download play if you like that stuffz,
  and most of all the wors thing is that mostly all the games are the same
  
  Maybe you like 
 that stuff but maybe you dont, but this is in my perspective... you could say it was a 9 or a 9.5 
 but I think that is too much...
  I also liked how the pro skaters actully looked like themselves but pixelated!
  Using the touch 
 screen and the use of the mic for when you bail or crash!
  I also loved the stuff in the skate lounge!
  Thanks for readin'. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sk8more67
Rating: 6
Date: Jul 14, 2008 9:16 am PT
Review:  If you step into a Gamestop or Gamecrazy or whatever store you buy your games from, you'll look 
 at Tony Hawk's Proving Ground and say,"Wow, this game looks good,". Well, you're wrong. Sure, you have 
 a lot of real life tricks, but it's a lot like any other Tony Hawk game, and can get boring and repetitive. Let 
 me just start off by saying that your skatepark which you get to build, SUCKS!! I mean, three pieces! That's 
 really not satisfying to my creative need. No loops, no huge staircases, no giant ramps bigger than 
 the Empire State Building. I'm really beggining to wonder if I should sell this game on eBay. When 
 you start playing this game, Tony Hawk talks to you and says he would like a tour of your skatepark. That's 
 cool, but you skate around your park and tony isn't following you like he should be! I mean, he's 
 not walking or running beside you, or even skateboarding near you! When you unlock every ramp spot, you'll 
 notice that there aren't a whole lot. And you also only get three ramps to choose from. You can dress 
 up your skater with more clothes and boards, but not as much as one would hope. There are a lot of 
 problems with this game so, if I were you, I wouldn't buy it. The only reason why there is any blood 
 in the game at all is because of Bam's video (the videos aren't long at all. VERY short) . Bam fell 
 doing a Varial Kickflip, and his hands get a little bloody. He then shows it to the camera. Bad game 
 on the DS. Just save your money and time. If you're looking for a real good skating game on the DS, then 
 you'll just have to wait for Skate It to come out.
  
  -Sk8more67 
::::::

::::::
UserName: HalfLife24
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jul 4, 2008 7:58 am PT
Review:  Tony hawks proving ground starts with making a player then going out and doing goals. Along the 
 way you get cash and buy new clothes new skatepark ramps and cheats. You also meet pro skaters 
 and do what they call a hardcore goal when you beat that you get about an average of 30 sec long 
 video of that pro. This game is fun by yourself or on wifi. But on the other hand the ds download 
 play the other person or people have to have the game so that takes away a little of the fun. But 
 like i said if you have owned this type game on any platform its basically the same first yur a 
 rookie then u get popular then your a pro yay haha and i beat the whole entire game in about 3 
 hours so its really not all that difficult. I would recomend this to a younger crowd because of 
 its difficulty but its pretty fun overall thanks for looking. give me a thumbs up ! im bored 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Gaming_Retro
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jun 27, 2008 1:01 pm PT
Review:  Tony Hawk's: Proving Ground, is a good, basic skateboarding game. It's Probably the best skateboarding 
 game on the Nintendo DS, considering there's only three skateboarding a games out there, and one 
 in development (Technically there's only two, because Tony Hawk's Downhill Jam is more of a racing 
 game then a straight up skateboarding game) . I believe they did a good job with the graphics, considering 
 they had to be Nintendo 64 quality (maybe a little less) , and that the levels are fairly big and 
 they could fit them all on there. But hey, technology is amazing these days. The only thing is 
 that the trees look kind of lame, I know this is a Nintendo DS game, but I think they could have 
 done a better job with the trees then what they had done.
  
  There really is no storyline other then you're a new skateboarder, you just opened a skate park, 
 and Tony Hawk magically appears to be in town. After you do what you have to do in you're skate 
 park, you then go to Philly, then it just keeps going on and you have to complete specific goals 
 to pass the level. Basically the so-called "storyline" is the same since Tony Hawk's Pro Skater 
 4. With the exception of Tony Hawk's Downhill Jam.
  
  The gameplay is the same basic gameplay from all the past Tony Hawk games, except that you have 
 the "special" tricks that you can do if you tap them on the touch screen. The environments are 
 just as good as the past Tony Hawk games, but they are somewhat smaller then the new ones in games 
 such as American Wasteland and Project 8. But hey it's a handheld game for Pete's sake!
  
  Some people may be wondering about the character customization and how good it is. It's good, you 
 can design your clothes and your skateboard deck. But what I've noticed is that the shirt customization 
 has one problem, it has to be a long sleeve shirt. It can get pretty aggravating when you have 
 a great idea for a short sleeve short, you make it, and suddenly you remember it has to be a long 
 sleeve short. Then with modifying the shirt to be a long sleeve shirt, it can be either better, 
 or worse. But other then that one problem, it's great.
  
  In summing this review up, TH: PG is a solid game that can be recommended to either the hardcore 
 Tony Hawk fan or the casual gamer that wants to go on a Tony Hawk video game ride. And if you don't 
 want to break down and buy it, you can rent it and then see what you think. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SethandJeremy
Rating: 8.5
Date: Apr 12, 2008 2:44 pm PT
Review:  I got this game last year and is one of the best games that I have on the ds next to Mario kart 
 ds. The audio is great plus the music is not bad. the game play is fun and the goals in this game 
 can be hard. The game looks good with its great 3d graphics on the ds. the final goal that i'm on 
 is so hard but the game should have more levels that are bigger. That is my only complaint and 
 the muti-player is off the hook. If your looking for a great game that is a sport this is my number 
 one choice and you won't regret it. That's not all the leader boards are great if your good. They 
 should have more music in the game. This also one of the best looking game on the ds which is amazing 
 in itself. You can also do goals in the game for a career skate style or hardcore style. The customization 
 is great because its your choice of what your skater wears and what skateboard that your skater 
 has so go show them what you got. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: austin1012
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 26, 2008 6:16 pm PT
Review:  well i'm been a tony hawk game playe since 99 but strangely what sets this a part is its stability 
 on a ds the 360 and ps3 versions are great but the ds version is way better besides crappier graphics. the 
 game runs smothely on the ds the free roam is even great on a portable system. the wi fi is lag 
 free which means a stable multiplayer expierence but sadly there could be some more types of multiplayer 
 games. well the price tag for the game is really nice. the custonizable clothing on the character 
 in the game is really wide from electric to planb. also i noticed that the frame rate is always 
 stable for a ds game. yet i feel like the game is short i played through it in 6-7 hours but since 
 its portable i'll let it slide. this game would be nicer with non toony grahics and more decks to 
 choose from instead of 56 boards but once again i'll let it slide because its portable. well all 
 in all this tony hawk portable truly is the best portable tony hawk game on any portable gaming 
 system. so there that is my review for tony hawk proving ground for the nintendo ds. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Girman
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jan 31, 2008 12:47 pm PT
Review:  If a Console game isn't that great, put it on the 'DS. Tony Hawk is at its 9th game, proving ground. 
 Almost a decade now. Tony Hawks Proving Ground (PG) isn't that great at all if u played the console 
 version compared to its first competetor, Skate. This game can b very compare to the game American 
 Sk8land on the 'DS. The game takes place in Philly. A mostly dark and rainy place in the East. 
 The whole world is full of places to skate and lots a great gaps. PG also trys the Nail the trick 
 this but it doesn't work that well but still makes use of the touch screen capabilitys. One of 
 the more greater things about this game is the customizable things have been expanded. Now you 
 can make ur own pants and shirts. Though hard 2 do, great when it comes out just right. Now that 
 they have better online capabilities it just makes the game so much greater.
  
  BOTTOM LINE: Overall this game is really great and the best in the systems for PG. Get this game 
 because of itself and the price of $20.00 
::::::

::::::
UserName: taybo93
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 11, 2008 4:50 am PT
Review:  This game really supprised me with its good graphics and great challenges, good multiplayer online 
 play, about 10 modes on online play.
  Chat with friends if you get there codes. Still stuff to do after you beat the game. Like get sick 
 on all challenges (ive done it) They could have used more of the stylus, it's only used like three 
 times in the game but you can paint with it in gear editor. I gave 9.0 but it deserves 9.4.
  
  definatly buy this game if you like tony hawk games.
  
  Great, Great, Great, Great, Great, 
 Great, Great, Great, Great, Great, Great, Great, Great, Great, Great, Great, Great, Great, Great, 
 Great, Great, Great, Great, Great, Great, Great, Great, Great, Great, Great, Great, Great, Great, 
 Great, Great, Great, Great, Great, Great, Great, Great, Great, Great, Great, Great, Great, Great, 
 Great, Great, Great, Great, Great, Great, Great, Great, Great, Great, Great, Great, Great, Great, 
 Great, Great, Great, Great, Great, Great, Great, Great, Great, Great, Great, Great, Great, Great, 
 Great, Great, Great, Great, Great, Great, Great, Great, Great, Great, Great, Great, Great, Great, 
 Great, Great, Great, Great, Great, Great, Great, Great, Great, Great, Great, Great, Great, Great, 
 Great, Great, Great, Great, Great, Great, Great, Great, Great, Great, Great, Great, Great, Great, 
 Great, Great, Great, Great, 
::::::

::::::
UserName: thebeast777
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jan 6, 2008 7:33 am PT
Review:  Tony Hwks Proving Ground (THPG) For the ds is a good game And I think it underestimated
  
  The Good:
  Very Fun
  Good unlockables
  Really cool real tricks (I Think?)
  Great soundtrack
 
  
  
  The Bad:
  Graphics too pixelated
  Same as old tony hawk games (kind of)
  No download play! (you may not like it but i do)
  
  
  i also liked the way you could unlock 
 pro skaters videoes and watch them 
  (i think you can do that in some other tony hawk games but im not sure)
  i liked the skate lounge 
 and the skatepark creator was very fun 
  (you can create your skatepark in other tony hawks but this is the first for the ds)
  and recording 
 your own voice when you fall and using the touch screen was a nice touch too
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: ThePimpEdwin
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 1, 2007 11:26 pm PT
Review:  This game is incredible you can do tricks perfectly ,it has nice graphics, and its story is ok choose 
 between a hardcore skater and a pro skater both with it's perks the wi-fi is great but you don't 
 get anything off of it another good thing which i like is that you can make your own skate crew 
 and after you beat it you'll want to play over and over again for no reason and he touch screen 
 is used in a good game by letting you perform trick more easily now for the bad part, this game 
 needs to do the gesture trick (tricks that use he stylus) more often and and should have a DS Download 
 Play option other than that it's a great game! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ray_c7
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 29, 2007 7:11 pm PT
Review:  this game looks good for the ds i give it a 8  
 0000 0 0 0 0 00 0 0 00 0 0 0 00 0 0 0 00 0 0 0 00 0 0 0 0 00 0 0 0 00 0 0 00 0 0 0 00 0 0 00 0 
 0 0 00 0 0 0 0 090 0 0 0 words
  
  a
  a
  a
  
  a
  a
  a a a a a aa a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a aa aa a a a a a a a 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
