-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Tony Hawk's American Sk8land
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/ds/sports/tonyhawksamericansk8land/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 Great graphics.
 Ability to add your own custom sound effects.
 Plays a lot like the console games.
 Cool graphics.
 Online scoreboards.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 Longtime players might find the game a little easy.
 No graffiti mode.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Nov 16, 2005
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 8.4
Critic Score: 8.5, 39 Review (s)
User Score: 8.6, 1,099 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Activision
Developer: Vicarious Visions
Genre: Skateboarding
Date: Nov 16, 2005
ESRB: Everyone

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
American Sk8land manages to capture a lot of the things that make the Tony Hawk series so much fun. 
 

  The Tony Hawk series has come to portable systems before, but usually the game has been transferred 
 out of its behind-the-back perspective into a more portable-friendly isometric view. Tony Hawk's 
 American Sk8land for the DS is a new, mostly original game that captures almost all of the gameplay 
 found in this year's console version, Tony Hawk's American Wasteland. Most of its level design 
 comes from that version as well, but its novel look, its online play, solid gameplay, and its revamped 
 goals make this a great one for the Nintendo DS.  

          The touch screen lets you do easy specials, plus it doubles as a map.     

  The change 
 from Wasteland to Sk8land appears to be mainly focused on toning it down to make the game easier 
 to swallow for a younger audience. Wasteland's storyline had an edge that's lacking here. You aren't 
 referenced as a runaway, and though you still meet up with Mindy, she's just a friendly local comic 
 book artist looking for her big break. You meet up with Tony Hawk almost immediately, who's impressed 
 with your skills, and the three of you set out to build a wicked skatepark by collecting cash and 
 completing goals.  

  While the game is largely focused on throwing goals at you, there's something to be said for just 
 skating around and doing tricks. The Tony Hawk trick system has evolved quite a bit over the years, 
 and this installment contains most of the moves that have made the series so popular. You'll notice 
 some omissions -- the ability to get off of your board is gone, for example, but since none of the 
 goals require you to get off your board, you probably won't miss it. It's almost like the game 
 has taken the good, refined points of the series' classic gameplay while leaving behind the more 
 recent inclusions that haven't worked so well. In addition, the levels are large and contain plenty 
 of interesting surfaces to use in your combos.  

  The story mode lets you skate around the levels in search of pedestrians that will give you tasks 
 to complete. For the most part, the tasks are rather simple. Someone will ask you to perform a 
 trick using a certain ramp, and you'll have to achieve fairly low combo scores, and so on. You're 
 often lined right up with your goals when you're required to do specific tricks, which makes completing 
 them a one- or two-button task. If you've been playing Tony Hawk games all along, you won't find 
 too much challenge in the story mode, but it's still interesting enough to be worth playing. If 
 you're new to the series, a "kid" mode lets you lighten things up a bit.  

  Like the more recent Tony Hawk console games, Sk8land also has a classic mode, which returns to 
 its pro skater roots by giving you a list of 10 goals and a two-minute timer. You need to complete 
 goals within that two-minute limit, but you can retry as many times as you like without having 
 to redo any goals you've previously completed. This mode is significantly more challenging than 
 the story mode, since you'll have to do a little more than just execute a basic trick or two to 
 succeed. By the end of the game, you'll need to score 2,000,000 points in those two minutes for 
 one of the score goals. This is not impossible to achieve, but it's much tougher than anything 
 you'll find in the story mode. Therefore, it's worth it to go back through the levels a second 
 time for this additional challenge.  

  Additionally, Tony Hawk's American Sk8land is one of the first DS games to contain online support 
 via Nintendo's Wi-Fi connection service. Unfortunately, only two players are allowed to play at 
 once, which isn't so hot. The levels are large, and it's certainly possible that you could play 
 an entire game without ever seeing the other skater (though the bottom screen is always used as 
 a map, so you'll at least know his general location) . You can play trick attack, where the highest 
 score wins once time expires; score challenge, where the game ends when one player reaches a certain 
 score; combo mambo, where the highest combo wins when time expires; and a new mode called the price 
 is wrong, where you need to get your score within a certain score range. If you go over that score 
 target, then tricks start to subtract from your score instead of add to it, so you have to work 
 on getting it in the zone. If you have a local friend with his or her own copy of the game, you 
 can also play these same online modes locally. The modes are functional, but Tony Hawk staples, 
 like graffiti, would have been a good inclusion. The game does, however, have some great online 
 stat tracking that keeps tabs on your classic mode scores.  

          Sk8land has most of the moves you'd expect from a full-fledged Tony Hawk game.     

 
  Sk8land maintains the behind-the-back viewpoint found in the console games, but the graphics actually 
 look completely different. The game has a more cartoon-like style, complete with cel-shading and 
 slightly exaggerated body parts. While you start out with a slow-moving skater, you'll build up 
 your stats as you play and eventually end up with a fast-moving game. Despite the speed increase, 
 the frame rate remains smooth and everything looks great. The only problem you'll encounter is 
 that the items you find in the levels, like skate letters, hidden tapes, and so on, don't appear 
 unless you're very close to them. This can be a real drag when you're looking for some of the harder-to-reach 
 items.  

  The sound in Sk8land is really fantastic. Selected songs from the Wasteland soundtrack are included 
 here, and they'll fade into one another as you skate around. You'll hear tracks from Green Day, 
 Frank Black, and more. You can also use the microphone to record new special trick-and-bail sound 
 effects for your skater. It's a cool little feature that further personalizes the game. Also, the 
 story mode cutscenes contain a lot of well-done speech. People you skate up to on the street, however, 
 seem to have been recorded with the same short time buffer used for your custom sound effects, 
 so a few people will be cut off before they are finished speaking. The sound effects have been 
 lifted from the console games and sound great here, too.  

  While the online isn't quite as interesting as you might have hoped, you're still left with an 
 adventure that manages to cram in an awful lot of the Tony Hawk experience. The easy difficulty 
 mode should make this game more accessible to new players. But even if you're a longtime fan of 
 the series and you've already seen these levels in American Wasteland, this game's still worth 
 taking a look at.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (140 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: Sk8more67
Rating: 5
Date: Apr 3, 2009 3:57 pm PT
Review:  If you're a long time Tony Hawk fan (like I am) , then you're not going to enjoy this game as much 
 as a person who's not very picky about details. This game does have many moves included in most 
 Tony Hawk games, but some of them are REALLY GROSS!! Like the Sacktap. Your skater grabs the board 
 and touches it to his sack, obviously! It's pretty gross and has managed to make it into all the 
 Tony Hawk games, sadly. Other than perverted skate tricks, the trick list is pretty good with many 
 special tricks and standard tricks to pull off. This game has barely made an effort for creativity, however. There 
 are tabs that you touch with your stylus to pull off a special trick instead of having to use a 
 combination of buttons. It's easier, but it's not that great and you only start out with one, making 
 you give effort to unlock two more. The graphics are pretty good, but they're weird in a way. They're 
 cartoony, which is odd. The arms look kinda pointy on the top, which is unrealistic unless you shoved 
 a big piece of metal in your arm. The game is pretty easy, probably because it's intended for little 
 kids instead of the usual audience. Because it's intended for kids, the gameplay has to be kinda 
 knocked down a notch so parents won't have a tantrum about it being "violent" or something like 
 that. Also, they took out the blood for some reason. That's really odd because in previous Tony Hawk 
 games (on the GBA) , there has been blood, so it doesn't make sense why they took it out. The game doesn't 
 really have much appeal to it after beating the game, because basicly all you can do is repeat goals, or 
 just skate around which gets reppettitive after a while. I do find it fun to run over pedestrians, but 
 even that gets reppettitive after a while. The game is really easy on story. About the hardest goal 
 in the game is to do a 900 Japan spine transfer over a 6 foot spine (wow, that's realistic!) , even 
 that isn't very hard. A nice addition is the board designer and graffiti designer. The game really 
 cut down the fun of tagging the hell out of everything in sight by only letting you do it on weird 
 looking green X's that you press A to spray with an invisible spray paint can (it's weird how that 
 works) . Another thing that stinks is that you have to beat classic mode with every skater to TRULY 
 beat the game and unlock some pointless sh*t. The game gets REALLY reppettitive after a while, so 
 if you are a longtime fan, nothing new here to report. Just a bunch of sh*t taken down including 
 the feature to get off your board and run. It's a good game for newcomers of the series or portable 
 game fanatics. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: starduke
Rating: 8.5
Date: Mar 17, 2009 12:48 pm PT
Review:  Tony Hawk's Sk8land is a great game.
  
  The controls are great. It actully incorporates the touch screen in a way that adds to the game. 
 You use the touch screen to activate certain special tricks, called "touch specials". There is 
 also an matix-esqe focus button (it slows down the game allowing you to pull off tricks easier) 
 on the touch screen. The button controls use every main button on the ds. They are pretty easy 
 to use.
  
  The graphics are cel-shaded and are some of the best cel-shaded art I have seen in a game. Everything 
 moves smoothly on the screen. You only get loading times when you move from one level to another, 
 and they are fast. 
  The art in the cut scenes is pretty much comic book stlye.
  
  The gameplay is the best part. You can pull off tricks very easily. I pulled off a very sweet combo 
 using a lot of grinds and wall plants, with a few kick-flips thrown in. The focus ability does 
 help you pull off tricks, but it is frustrating when it stops in the middle of a combo and you 
 end up wiping out because you weren't ready for it. Other then that, the game play is great.
  
  This one of the best Tony Hawk games ever. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hi0
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 27, 2008 6:24 pm PT
Review:  Ok, rent it first. It might make you kind of dizzy after watching everything move if you haven't 
 played other TH games. But it is really good- especially if you like big levels to skate around 
 in and try out different stuff. On the Nintendo DS, if you tap an icon on the touch screen, then 
 you will do a special trick, which is a really cool addition to the game. The only bad thing is 
 that you can NOT get off your skateboard and run around like you can on the previous console versions. 
 Story mode it really fun, almost perfect, it's just too short. It should be longer. This game is 
 really easy and good for beginners to the Tony Hawk series and to experts! I HIGHLY recommend Tony 
 Hawk American Sk8land! Try it out. If you like this game, you really should look in to the other 
 games in the Tony Hawk series!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nintendonoob
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 16, 2008 4:54 pm PT
Review:  This game is great. The story is any person (you create the player) and you try to make enough 
 ca$h to make your own skatepark as you show people your skills and you do deeds for them. There 
 are many fun deeds to do in story mode and itll keep you busy for hours. There is also a new feature 
 called meltdown (i think it was) and if you click the right buttons with the stylus youll get a 
 nice speed boost. You can do this anytime but it works best when you fail a trick and fall down. 
 Another mode is free skate (of freakin course!) and you can skate freely anywhere you want with 
 your created player or some other pros including: bam margera (loco!) , tonk hawk of cousrse, rodney 
 mullen, the rook ryan shekler, and many other cool skating prodigys. It depends on how many places 
 you skate. There is one already unlocked for you but you wont get much fun out of it. The way to 
 unlock the others is to get the place on storymode. The places are the usual in tony hawk skating 
 games like hollywood, la etc. Of course in the areas you skate there are a few etra ramps located 
 nearby. Youll have really fun grinding on the powwer lines and getting to the roofs of many buildings. 
 Overall this game is awesome and its a must have for any gamer. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: IcemanBryan
Rating: 8
Date: Sep 28, 2008 8:24 pm PT
Review:  Finally a Tony Hawk game for the Ds!! Pretty fun actually.
  Pros:
  -Tons of tricks
  -Fun on the go
  -Game play is decent
  -Lasting 
  -Better than some Ds games
  -Just plain 
 fun
  -Cool graphiti, board, and character customizations.
  
  Cons:
  -Easy/short story mode
  -Disappointing graphics
  -Music could be better
  -Online is boring
 
  -Not a good selection of levels
  -Warehouse customization is limited
  
  This is a great pick-up and play kind of game. Graphics are disappointing. If you like Skateboarding 
 and want to play on the go, this is the best choice.
  
  . (....\............../....)
  . \....\........... /..../ 
  ...\....\........../..../
  ....\..../. I.`\./ 
  ..../... I.... I.. (`\
 
  ... I..... I.... I....\...\ 
  ... I..... I. I. I..\...)
  ...\.....` .. .......' ROCK ON!
  ....\_________.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: konn3r
Rating: 8
Date: Jul 17, 2008 6:56 am PT
Review:  When you play this game you can feel the essence of the tony hawk series. They did a great job 
 making it look and feel like wast land. They have made the graphics better but the game play is 
 great. It has all of the old tricks. We all know that tony hawk always has great cheats and ulockables 
 but in this you only have about ten cheats and they suck. There is no secrets in this game no extra 
 levels or extra skaters. over all this is a fun game but bad graphics, bad cheats, no ulockable 
 levels, no ulockable skaters, and horrid create a skater mode. The game does have a decent multiplayer 
 and after you beat it the free skate is loads of fun the story mode is just like the other ones 
 and they have a classic mode where you can do a story mode that is just like the old games. so 
 over all its a good game. 8 out of 10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kcweezkid
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jan 3, 2008 8:52 am PT
Review:  This game is going for next to nothing now. I think I got it used for $12 but saw it a few days 
 later for $15 new. Regardless, it is a game that you should add to your DS collection. The game 
 is fun and easy to pick up and play for a few minutes or for a couple hours. 
  
  There are several different modes you can play in and the look and feel of the game is similar 
 to previous Hawk games, yet different. The game is basically a hand held version of Tony Hawk's 
 American Wasteland. The difference here is this game is targeted for the general hand held market 
  a younger audience. So, instead of a drop out, grungy skater like in Wasteland, your character 
 will be a kid friendly Midwestern good old boy looking to build a skate park in an abandoned warehouse. 
 You improve and meet a cast of characters along the way  including some professional skaters who 
 help you build the skate park and come back in the last level of the story mode. 
  
  The other difference is one that works very well in my opinion. The game doesn't try to look completely 
 real  like in Hawk games for platform systems. All characters are turned into cartoons. This appeals 
 to the younger audience I am sure, but it also doesn't force the system to try and do something 
 that it is not really capable of doing. The colors are sharp and the characters look fine. It may 
 take a minute to get used to it if you are familiar with the realistic looking games on other systems, 
 but you will soon realize the game play is the same and the cartoon approach is fitting for this 
 title.
  
  The good, The Bad, The Interesting 
  
  The Good  If you like other Hawk game's you will like this one. Developers took the approach of 
 making the game a little bit more kid friendly, but sticking with the formula that has made these 
 games so popular. There is nothing revolutionary about the game, other than the fact that it is 
 on the DS and made the transition seamlessly. 
  
  The Bad  Most of the complaints you will hear about this game is that it is far to easy. To an 
 extent I agree, but I completely understand the reason behind this decision. The game is targeting 
 a younger audience and this title more than any of the past few versions will be played by a lot 
 of players who have not played a Hawk game in the past. For gamers who have played the Hawk series 
 for years, well, we do not need to learn all of the tricks again we already because we already 
 know them. If you are a TH veteran you can probably breeze through the story mode, but the game 
 should have enough appeal in some other modes to keep everyone happy. The storyline is definitely 
 targeted towards kids  this doesn't have any impact on the game itself except I would have liked 
 the language used to sound a little more mature. The only other complaint is not that of the game, 
 but the DS itself. This is a game that would have benefited from a traditional joystick. It gets 
 by fine without it, but that would have made things a little better. The storyline is definitely 
 targeted towards kids  this doesn't have any impact on the game itself except I would have liked 
 the language used to sound a little more mature.
  
  The Interesting  The soundtrack is solid in this game like it is in so many TH games. Many games 
 for this system I turn down so I can hear other music or the television while playing. This game 
 I have actually put head phones in so I could hear the soundtrack. 
  
  The game is solid and one that has a long life because it is fun to play even if you have beaten 
 the game. Even if it does have a few minor flaws the game is a great value and a definite pick 
 up for those who enjoy the other Hawk games.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Cradleofbodom
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 2, 2008 3:55 am PT
Review:  Well, I must say activision did something good for the ds. I was very worried this game was going 
 to suck after playing tony hawk's underground 2 on gameboy advance (really cheesy) but this game 
 was worth the 20 bucks. It's a bit like the consol version (I have American Wasteland for xbox 
 360) and I'm happy they put some "real" music on it, even if it was crappy Greenday. Let me start 
 by saying the controlls are nice, not alot of adjusting if your used to the xbox controlls for 
 TH games. The graphics arn't to bad, really cartoonish, but still, kinda fallows in the humor of 
 THUG2 consol graphics, well,,,, maybe a bit worse than that. The story is ok, kind of a clean, 
 quick version of the xbox one, probably cleaned it so it would be rated E. The sound quality is 
 pritty good, big inprovement from the TH games on GBA's quality were it sounds like ur scratching 
 something. The wifi play is pritty sweet since the games story is short, u can play online with 
 other people in games like on xbox live. Not very much selection for your people but its decent. 
 They even brought back a level from proskater 4 which is kind of cool. Theres also 2 downloadable 
 goals off wifi. Decent buy worth the $20. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 5TEELY
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 1, 2007 2:20 am PT
Review:  So far it would have to be one of my favourite games on DS. The first time i played tony hawk was 
 on the good old N64 (pro skater 2) so if you are a tony hawk fan i would say this is a game you 
 should consider getting.
  
  The story mode was a bit short and a lot of the goals were really easy or really short but the 
 classic will keep you playing for a bit longer. A lot of the game is just scoring big combos by 
 doing different tricks or just make them as big as you can. The story is bassed on a skater who 
 meats a girl that is a skate artist and they find an old abondonded but legendary skate park. You 
 skate around and help people out to rack up a lot of cash to rebuild this skate park. Soon in you 
 catch up with Tony hawk and he starts to get other pros together that remembered this place and 
 they start to help rebuild it with you. At the end you help them make a big video to launch the 
 re-opening. You get to chose the peices that go back into the park but you need to choose from 
 three peices and they arent all that great so thats not as good as it sounds.
  
  OK so the story ain't to great but thankfully!!!! The classic will keep you playing. It's just 
 like the old versions but with more added like the combo's its just a line somtimes its hard and 
 anouying if you can't get it buts its just a line you need to get through in one combo
  
  Thanks for reading my reveiw hope it gives you a better idea of what this game is like and if you 
 want to get it or not! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: matisrock
Rating: 8
Date: Sep 21, 2007 1:15 pm PT
Review:  If you've been looking for a Tony Hawk game for a handheld in which your skater is larger than 
 an ant (oooh GBA....) , look no further. This particular game is almost the same as console counterparts 
 in terms of graphics, controls, and music (FINALLY) , but the limitations of DS game cards mean 
 that the story mode is short... really short. There are 8 levels, 7 of which have 17 goals, the 
 last of which has only 15 goals. Each goal is pretty easy, and some are as simple as Spine Transfer 
 over this thing. You'll find yourself playing through the story in one sitting, but Classic mode 
 is still there to keep you entertained.
  I have no router, so I can't rate the WiFi options, but other reviews say good things about them.
 
  
  Long story short, if you're a fan of the series, this is one to have. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: horror_spooky
Rating: 8
Date: Aug 12, 2007 4:21 pm PT
Review:  Tony Hawk's American Sk8land is a pretty decent game, with just some flaws that bring it down a 
 bit.
  
  Most of the game is spent pulling off moves or racking up points by doing tricks like manuals, 
 grinding, flip tricks, grab tricks, etc. By pulling off a lot of these you can rack up gigantic 
 combos. However, the fact that you can't get off your board does make it somewhat harder not to 
 crash during a combo, which is shame.
  
  To progress through the game, you have to skate around town and talk to people. They make you do 
 pretty mundane and repetitive tasks and then give you money. After you collect enough money, you 
 can talk to a pro skater that happens to be there and add a new item to your skate park. Then, 
 you are able to visit the next area. Sadly, there aren't that many areas at all and you can beat 
 the game extremely fast and without much effort from your part. I don't think I had any problems 
 with any of the missions in the story mode at all.
  
  Also, buying stuff for your skatepark really isn't as cool as it sounds. You have to choose between 
 three pieces that you can put in there, and it's the only park you can create (as far as choosing 
 the pieces) . This game would be so much better if it had a true create-a-park mode on it.
  
  You can customize your character, but this feature is severely limited. Doesn't even really 
 matter that much what they look like because the character mdoels are horrible, some of the worst 
 character graphics I've seen on the DS yet. You can also customize your skateboard, which is made 
 a lot easier since this feature incorporates the stylus. You can put whatever design you want on 
 your skateboard, as well as your graffiti tag (which you can use at specifically-marked areas, 
 which is a drag) as well as your wall-plant sticker (which also only shows up on specific areas) .
 
  
  Since I've already told you that story mode is pretty lame, what about Classic Mode? Thankfully, 
 Classic Mode is a lot more fun than story mode, which is a great relief. You'll have fun trying 
 to get fast runs as you go through the two-minute levels over and over again. There is also a mode 
 where you can skate around and do whatever you want, but this mode is pretty pointless as there 
 isn't anything to do except look for cool jumps unless you're specifically in Story Mode or Classic 
 Mode.
  
  There is a two-player mode, but it's multi-card play only which is a disappointment, especially 
 since most of the people you know wouldn't want to buy this game anyways. There is an online feature 
 available as well, but it is basically dead, with very few users ever on and the server constantly 
 messing up.
  
  Now, the graphics are both a blessing and a curse. As I mentioned before, the character models 
 are horrible, and I know that the Nintendo DS can do better (like in Resident Evil: Deadly Silence) . 
 However, it is very amazing that the DS can pull off a console-like rendition of Tony Hawk and 
 do it very flawlessly. The controls aren't very hard to get used to and they are even easier in 
 some respects (like the touch-screen activated specials) .
  
  The first few levels look relatively similar, which upset me, but the latter levels start to get 
 original. The game also loses points because there aren't really cut-scenes in the game, and the 
 story is told by mildly animated pictures with voice-overs, which is very annoying.
  
  Also, the soundtrack was somewhat of a let-down, but there are SOME good songs on there (including 
 Holiday by Greenday) . It was sometimes difficult to hear what the characters were saying, which 
 could be a pain (but you can turn subtitles on) .
  
  If the Story Mode was more immersive, Tony Hawk's American Sk8land would've been much, much better. 
 If there were actual cut-scenes instead of the annoying voice-overs with cartoon cut-outs the game 
 would've been made that much more enjoyable. If the soundtrack was bigger and had better songs, 
 and if some of the audio was fixed, this also would've been a major plus. I also noticed some typo's 
 in the game when character's were talking, which is a minor and unnecessary annoyance. If there 
 were more character-customization choices as well as a create-a-park mode, plus if the two-player 
 included single-card play, those would've sky-rocketed the title to near perfection.
  
  Tony Hawk's American Sk8land isn't one of the best Nintendo DS titles out there, but it isn't the 
 worst, either. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: StreetSurfer
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 11, 2007 8:27 pm PT
Review:  As I said before, Tony Hawk American Sk8land is one of the best NIntendo DS games in history! I 
 will first describe how I have come upon this excellent game. A few years back when it first came 
 out, my friend gave this game to me because he didn't really want it, and since I couldn't really 
 turn it down (come on it was a FREE game) , I just said what the heck and accepted it. Back then 
 I wasn't really into skateboarding or anything with the word board in it. So stupid me, before 
 even trying it, I decided to sell it at Gamestop! So now, a few years later, now really hooked 
 on Skateboarding and different board sports, I finally was able to look for the game on Amazon. com 
 and buy it used! It is an AWESOME game! Now, even though at first glance, most people (specifically 
 children) might say the graphics just completely suck. But actually, since Activision was smart 
 enough to know that it is completely impossible to put in realistic graphics similar to those of 
 other much larger and less portable consoles. So they decided to take a much cartoony and comic 
 book-like cell-shaded approach to this DS installment in the series. I give graphics an 8 because 
 though, it is fun and refreshing, it could sometimes cause glitches like, disappearing faces and 
 such.
  
  Ok, the gameplay. Basically, you're an average skateboarder trying to make it big. And almost immediately, 
 Tony Hawk is impressed by your skills and so then on, you meet (hmmmmm) , I think Mindy but her 
 name always seems to slip my mind. Anyways, you meet this comic book girl who wants to get her 
 comic book series called American Sk8land (go figure) . So from there, Tony Hawk and Mindy decide 
 to rebuild this old warehouse and promptly call it American Sk8land . Now that you have that information, 
 the process is pretty simple, different people and/or pro skaters from each area (Hollywood, Beverly 
 HIlls, Vans, East LA, Alcatraz, Warehouse) will ask you to perform different tricks off ramps and 
 what not and you get money to buy a variety of ramps for this skatepark. The controls are actually 
 very easy this time around thanks to the fact that they already have a button on the bottom touch 
 screen to perform those super cool specials. In the past series, you had to memorize complicated 
 button orders to do this, but not anymore. Of course, you could also do the harder way as well. 
 Freak Out is also now a cool mini game in it. Every time you bail, you will see three bars in which 
 you have to have to fill to regain some points. I would give gameply 10 because of the simplicity 
 of it. The game's sounds surprisingly nice. It has a nice range of new and old rock songs (up to 
 30 minutes I think) that you can choose from. Also, you are able to create your own custom sounds 
 for when you land a combo or trick, and when bail. This is used thanks to the Nintendo DS microphone. 
 You have about 3 seconds to say whatever you want to say (which is really cool) . Also, all the 
 pro skaters you hear talking, are from the actual skaters and not actors. I give the Sounds a 9 
 because though the quality is very nice, it would've been a bit nicer if they wouldn't have kept 
 on repeating only one line from the other skaters except for Tony Hawk. The value of this game 
 really depends on the date. I got this game a few years back when it first came out which would 
 probably be between 20 or 30 bucks. Now that they don't have this game anymore in any local stores, 
 I would give its value a nice 10 or 15 dollars because of its fun gameplay. Although, you can probably 
 get it cheaper. Value, 10.
  
  In conlusion, Activision did a superb job on this installment of the long lasting Tony Hawk series 
 and would like to see if there would be other Tony Hawk DS games like this one later on in the 
 future. I'd be interested to see if Tony Hawk Proving Ground DS can match up to this one! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: emceelokey
Rating: 4.8
Date: Aug 6, 2007 6:57 pm PT
Review:  I bought this game for $10 and I figured that the GBA versions of Tony Hawk were pretty good in 
 their day so I'd give this a try. The controls of the game are great and play like the home console 
 counterparts but that's pretty much the only good I can say about this. The graphics are sub PS1 
 at best and are just sloppy and hard to look at. I really don't care much for graphisc so I'm not 
 really giving it a bad score for that. The reasoning for such a low score is because of the fact 
 that the missions are pretty much as difficult as the tutorial of the big brother console versions 
 of the game. There's an actual mission where you do a spine transfer and that's it. You do a spine 
 transfer then you get $250 for it. Another mission type is to grind from one grind sign to another. 
 That's it. You're not required to gain a certain amount of points or whatever. You just need to 
 grind... The missions are simplistic and not very challenging at all. The most challenging missions 
 are when you meet the pros and even those are just simple can you do this type of missions. I only 
 played through two levels and even that I had to force myself to do so. Stay away from this game. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DrummerDude1010
Rating: 8.2
Date: Jul 22, 2007 1:19 pm PT
Review:  Tony Hawk's American Sk8land is a pretty fun game, and the new controls and Wi-Fi features of the 
 DS make it a unique Tony Hawk game.
  
  This game controls pretty much the same as every other Tony Hawk game. The specials are one thing 
 that is different. Instead of having to memorize all the button combinations for the specials, 
 all you have to do is hit a button with your thumb on the touch screen called a touch screen special. 
 Once your special meter fills up, you get three air, grind, and manual touch screen specials, that 
 pop up on the bottom screen depending on if your in the air, grinding, or on the ground. You can 
 also have many other button combination specials, but touch screen specials make it much more easy 
 to pull off your favorite tricks. After using a lot of touch screen specials in one combo, however, 
 you will not be able to use them until you crash or stop doing that combo, so its good to remember 
 some other button specials.
  
  Also involving the touch screen is the new way to freak out after falling during a combo. If you 
 do fall during a combo, 3 moving bars will appear on the bottom screen. Touch these bars with your 
 thumb when they are at their highest spot to recover some of your lost points. This way of freaking 
 out works very well.
  
  The graphics, as stated in Gamespot's review, are cartoony, but they don't get in they way or become 
 bothersome at all.
  
  The sound is pretty decent, and has some cool songs, but what is best is that you can make your 
 own custom sounds using the DS's mic for when you crash or do a special or something like that. 
 It is a pretty cool feature that also works well.
  
  Wi-Fi on this game is actually really good. I have not noticed any lagging at all, but what I like 
 best about the Wi-Fi is that once you find a random opponent it starts you out in free skate. You 
 can then pause the game and send a request for different game modes, and your opponent can do the 
 same to you. It is really fun, but it would be nice to have four people to face instead of only 
 one. It is also too bad that it only has multi cart play instead of singe cart, which also would 
 have added to the value of this game.
  
  Overall, this is a great Tony Hawk game, and if you enjoyed the console versions, you will definitely 
 love this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Meat-Puppet
Rating: 8.8
Date: Jun 14, 2007 12:25 am PT
Review:  When I first heard about how they were going to try and fit American Wasteland onto the DS, the 
 first thing that I pictuered was an ugly, broken game. Sort of like Tony Hawk's Pro Skater 4 on 
 PS1.
  
  Instead, what is delivered on Tony Hawk's American Sk8land delivers and excellent and compelling 
 game, which, in many ways, out does it's home consoles bigger brothers.
  
  First of all, the visual presentation TH: AS is fantastic. The move away from realistic graphics 
 to cartoon-ish ones works fantastically on all fronts. Not only does it help fit more onto the 
 cartridge without suffering sluggish moments and looking just plain ugly, but the drastic change 
 in style from every other TH game ever made leaves this title standing in a class of it's own. 
 It also helps in the game in those moments when you think, Now, that just ain't possible . It's 
 hard to be a stickler for realism when you are virtually playing a characature of a professional 
 skateboarder.
  
  The sound in this game has it's ups and downs. The game has a few of the tracks featured in American 
 Wasteland, which in it'self is impressive considering the large scale of the game, but due to the 
 space limitations with the DS cartridge, the songs featured, while good, can get quite repetitive. 
 The voice work in the cut-scenes, though, is top notch, with Tony Hawk, the voice actor who plays 
 Mindy (I think she's from Rugrats. I'unno...) and a slew of Pro Skaters put in their best efforts. 
 And, even though the written dialouge at times can be quite corny, the actors pull it off with 
 a sense of fun that makes it so enjoyable.
  
  One of the impressive features with AS is the use of the microphone. With your custom skater comes 
 custom sounds, like when you bail or when you land a special trick. Though, through the use of 
 the microphone, you can record your own sounds (including expletives you've always wanted your 
 skater to scream) . Just little touches like these makes you gaming experience all the more fun.
 
  
  While the Story mode is fun, it is also really short and really easy, with only a few of the challenges 
 giving you a little challenege. Though this could be considered the death of the game, it makes 
 up for it ten fold with the awesome classic mode, which is worth buying for itself. A throw back 
 to the Pro Skater series, the classic mode is perfect for on the go fun, with two minute runs with 
 ten goals on each level, the game is both accessible and difficult enough to keep you going back 
 for more, in exactly the same way that the original did. With gameplay this perfect, it's a wonder 
 why they ever changed it.
  
  Also, with the additions of never playable before characters like the legendary Daewon Song the 
 game is truly a must have. A great game that is a must have for any fan of the series or anyone 
 looking for a game that will keep them entertained while on the run. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Girman
Rating: 9.8
Date: Jun 4, 2007 7:11 pm PT
Review:  This game took me some time 2 find. This game took me 4 weeks 2 pre order. The reason: its awsome. 
 And the most obvious thing is: the whole game is cartoonized. This game is basically Tony Hawk's 
 American Wastland on the Nintendo 'DS. You, the skater, are looking 4 a spot in fame. So after 
 a mad sesh at some random park. Tony Hawk (best vert skater ever) gives you a spot on his bus heading 
 tword LA, and there, u begin ur journey. Along the way u don't meet Iggy, but u do meet that gothic 
 girl whos name escapes me. she will lead u threw Hollywood, Beverly hills, Downtown, Vans skatepark, 
 East L. A, alcatraz and The Warehouse (which is replaced from Amercian wastland) . But sadly there 
 is no Compton lol. There is also real live voices from actual sk8ers. And there is music form American 
 wastland which is awsome. The game mostly takes the main parts of each levels and puts them into 
 cartoonized form. there are some spots that were tookien out like the canyon in Hollywood, the 
 casino, the overpass in Downtown. Just some minor parts. The gameplay hasn't changed at all which 
 is awsome.
  
  Aside from the levels and gameplay there is the fact of the touch screen. There are 3 buttons to 
 touch and each buttons unleashes a special move. Most of the touch screen is a map which helps 
 u get around. There is now the part where u can paint ur board and tag. Even though u have about 
 20 decks to choose from there are some graphics 2 use 4 ur 2 costum boards. The same is 4 the tagging.
 
  
  Now not everything is good about this game. They took out the walking aorund part so now u cant 
 climb up ledges 2 get 2 secret areas. : ( they also took out that u can tag anywhere around the 
 levels. Now u can only tag in 4 diffrent parts of the levels that r marked by a big green X. I 
 guess Tony hawk doesn't want us vandulizeing his Jeep billboard in HollyWood.
  
  I also 4got that there is multiplayer. I have played online which is only acessed by 4 people per 
 server. There on each level u can play free skate or trick attack where u can watch xtrime vertual 
 sk8ers skool u in which is quite easy. There is also local head to Head which I have not tried 
 but there is only 1 v 1 so Wi-Fi is better.
  
  BOTTOM LINE: Buy this game. Its awsome. If u have 2 special order it, get it. It is worth playing. 
 Its awsome 4 first time tony Hawk players and veterans alike. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jepps2007
Rating: 8.2
Date: May 28, 2007 6:27 am PT
Review:  The good: attractive 3D cartoon style graphics; well designed levels; lots of lines to skate for 
 high combos; controls extremely; touch screen used well.
  
  The bad: very short; create a deck and create a tag can be slightly buggy at times; too easy; cant 
 get off your board.
  
  Gameplay: 9/10 alot of fun, and there are many many natural lines to ride, the game controls alot 
 like the console counterparts, the stroy has changed slightly this time though, instead of meeting 
 boone and all the other wacky characters, you just meet mindy, also its not american wasteland 
 but american sk8land, and is in a different place, i think this was done to make levels smaller 
 for the DS, also the way you collect pieces has changed, instead of destroying them and brining 
 the back, you have to impress pro's to make them give you money for new pieces, you chose form 
 a, b, or c worth a being the best and c being the worst.
  
  Graphics: 9/10 Arguably the best looking game on DS, the cartoon style adds to the wacky feel of 
 the game, the cut scenes are hand drawn but with voice acting put in too. The one thing i love 
 is that there is NEVER any slowdown even the loading and sving times are quick.
  
  sound: 10/10 many of the tracks from THAW are included here but naturally there are less than the 
 console versions siply because of the amount of space in the DS cartridges. Also the general skateboarding 
 sounds sound ver, very nice.
  
  Value:6/10 good but wont last TH fans more than two hours on singleplayer, but the classic mode 
 is in there too, and is as always great, but when you complete the game you unlock all the levels 
 for free skate so i just go on free skate and try to get the highest combos possible. But all in 
 all the game should clock in at around 4-5 hours for most players, even shorter for the veterans 
 among us.
  
  overall:8.2 a great tony hawk game and is actually better than the colsonle counter parts, which 
 is good news for DS owners. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: NBAmaster30
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 2, 2007 8:08 pm PT
Review:  Well With the success of the tony hawk series and having no competition with any other game The 
 Tony Hawk Series tries its first attempt on the Ds
  
  This game is one of the first games to feature Wifi. its cool because it is the company with Mario 
 and Animal Crossing as the only games in 2005 to have wifi. This game features an somewhat interesting 
 storyline. Help restore a skate park. and meet tony hawk and other skaters. You can play as other 
 skaters and also you have a custom character whom you make its simplistic but it works. You get 
 your stats better by doing various things ollies, grab etc.. you can also edit you deck. you can 
 hold 2 different boards. you draw with the stylist to design your deck. it works really well because 
 of the ds touch screen. it also has sound editor. where you can put your own voice into the game 
 when you do good or bad. This game is missing something however its single card multiplayer. it 
 has multicard and wifi but that is something that i think should have been in it. Overall this 
 game looks feels and acts like a every Tony hawk game and the ds has features that no other tony 
 hawk game can do and they use it very efficiently. Breakdown
  Gameplay: Skateboarding just like all the rest with some added touch features that are actually 
 not gimmicky! Graphics: Cell Shaded looks great on the ds. The surroundings look great however 
 the people could look a bit better
  Sound: Great sound track just like most tony hawk games you can literally just hear the music for 
 fun of it
  Value: You get a lot for your money the storyline is not that long but with free skate and multiplayer 
 makes this game replayable
  Overall: Great buy has its flaws but its still a fun game 
::::::

::::::
UserName: shadowmajin
Rating: 8
Date: Feb 24, 2007 1:37 pm PT
Review:  Tony Hawk's American Skateland is a great game that really shows the style of the birdman on the 
 DS. T. H. A. S. gives you numerous levels and and a list of goals that can only be compared to other 
 Tony Hawk games. By playing classic skate mode you unlock cheats that each have different effects 
 while playing the game. You can also choose to play as one of the several skaters featured in this 
 game. You can choose from the birdman himself to classics like Rodney Mullen and Tony Alva. The 
 storyline in this game puts you as a rookie skater who won a small time skating competition and 
 meets Tony Hawk. He invites you on his roadside tour and you get to visit several famous cities 
 such as Beverly Hills to Los Angeles and a Vans Skating Competition. The game features a cartoony 
 sort of look but still provides solid gameplay for fans. While skating you can also use a Focus 
 button to help you make big combos and balance your manuals and grinds. Unfortunately this game 
 is short and with only about 6 different levels it will provide you with about 5 or 6 hours of 
 gameplay. Of course if you choose to unlock all the cheats by playing Classic with each of the 
 featured characters you can play for another good 3 or 4 hours. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: quatoe
Rating: 8.6
Date: Feb 22, 2007 2:24 pm PT
Review:  For the past couple of years the Tony Hawk series has been getting pushed out like candy. Only 
 spending about 1 year in development the games were lacking what the original games brought to 
 the table. Tony Hawk's American Sk8land brings back all the fun and good times the original games 
 had, and packed with online play and a great single player Tony Hawk fans will surely love this 
 game. Since the release of Tony Hawk's Underground , the series has taken a big turn in terms of 
 gameplay. There is now a plethora of combos to pull off, and lets just say you won't be disappointed 
 by the sheer number of tricks you are able to do. You are able to pull insane moves like a 900 
 degree Madonna or a handstanding nose manual, and even a pogo (your jump on your skateboard like 
 you do with a pogo stick) . The controls for this game may take some getting used to, as you can 
 only use the d-pad for the movement of your character. The touch screen is used for performing 
 specials, creating your own custom deck and creating a signature graffiti. At times you may get 
 frustrated because you couldn't turn a corner as sharp as you like or may not have been able to 
 pull off an insane trick, but overall the d-pad does do a well balanced job of controlling your 
 skater. Tony Hawk's American Sk8land features voice acting from skate legends such as Tony Alva, 
 Rodney Mullen, Andrew Reynolds and of course the one and only Tony Hawk. Although most of the story 
 is text, the comic book style cutscenes feature very good voice acting, it may not be on the level 
 of high quality feature films, but voice acting is better than all text. Tony Hawk's AS also features 
 a very good soundtrack, from the likes of Green Day ot other Indie rock bands. In this version 
 of the game you can do something called custom sounds, this allows you to record something for 
 when you bail (bad news) or when you pull off a special or clear a huge ass gap (good news) . The 
 skate boarding sounds very realistic, with the sound fo your trucks hitting the ground or the sound 
 of the wheels on the ground, it all sounds good. For a DS game, it sounds absolutely amazing. The 
 game features a very cool cel-shaded look, and it fits the game pretty well. It gives you the feel 
 of a happy, living, and breathing city. Although there is no pedestrian characters it is still 
 fun to roam around the city or skatepark. The only other people that you will encounter is people 
 who need your skateboarding skills to help them with their daily job or fellow skaters. Although 
 the character models don't look exactly stunning the artwork for the characters look absolutely 
 stunning. The cutscenes feature that comic book style artwork and Tony Hawk in comic form looks 
 pretty damn good. All of the other characters artwork look just as good as anything else, they 
 are very detailed and feature rich, vibrant colors to go along with it. This has to be one of the 
 best looking cel-shaded handheld game to be released in a long time. Tony Hawk's AS isn't that 
 hard of a game to finish. You would probably be able to play through the whole single player in 
 a weekend, and that includes finishing every mission and getting every stat up. Even after you 
 finish the game you will want to go back and play it again and again. With the inclusion of online 
 play you will be busy for even longer. Although I still yet have to play the online mode (I am 
 not willing to sit at McDonald's to play a online game) I will write another section for it after 
 I do play some of the online. There is also a wireless multi-card play, which means you and one 
 of your friends can play the game (but you both need the cartridge) . Overall Tony Hawk's American 
 Sk8land brings back what we have been missing, a fun and engrossing Tony Hawk game. This level 
 of fun hasn't been in a Tony Hawk game since Tony Hawk's Pro Skater 2 and 3, and hopefully the 
 series always run in this direction. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: g-stuart
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 19, 2007 10:42 am PT
Review:  You can skate around and do lots of stuff, such as missions and more. For your board and graffiti, 
 your can draw little pictures. The only part that sucks is that you cannot get off of the board 
 and walk around the city. You can create and skate around with your skater and there is a variety 
 (I think like 15 and other 15 combinations to create) of Skaters to choose and skate with. It's 
 a big world of grinding, flipping, grabbing, and lipping on a little Nintendo DS. Buy this game, 
 it's another Must-Have!! You can put your own voice on here, listen to songs such as, Holiday by 
 Green Day and much, much more. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Davidlhc
Rating: 9.1
Date: Jan 23, 2007 1:58 pm PT
Review:  When I first got it I needed to get use to play Tonk Hawk on a portable (and using the touch screen) . 
 But after I got use to it it was really fun, and the graphics are really good for the DS. I would 
 buy it if i were you. The music is cool but gets repetitive so that gets annoying. There are a 
 lot of missions. Wi-fi makes it pretty fun to play other player. You get to make your own person 
 and you get to be some of the worlds greatest skaters including Tony Hawk himself. There are a 
 lot of cool movies. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: evanstapler
Rating: 9.6
Date: Jan 10, 2007 10:14 pm PT
Review:  Tony Hawk's American Sk8land for the DS is a fun game that will keep you playing it no matter how 
 many times you have beaten it.
  
  Gameplay: Tony Hawk's American Sk8land has all of the functionality of the console versions, nothing 
 is held back. With a fun and quirky story mode that will keep you entertained for a while it's 
 hard to put it down even once you have beaten it. Even then, there is a classic mode, and for each 
 character you beat classic mode with you unlock a new cheat. These cheats can range from perfect 
 grinding to first person camera, which adds a whole new twist on the game. Plus, with the Wi-Fi 
 compatibility it has it integrates fun new game modes and you can compare your top scores with 
 the top scores of everybody who plays on Wi-Fi. The only downside is many of the tricks seem a 
 bit impossible and unrealistic, and often when trying to transfer from one trick into another trick 
 you bail. 9/10
  
  Graphics: One of my favorite parts about the game is the graphics. This isn't a 2-D side-scroller, 
 it's a real 3-D world just like all of the console versions. They may not seem very realistic, 
 but it's a fun twist and has a great unique feel to it. This is something else that makes it so 
 much fun, how it has that distinct cartoonish look. 9/10
  
  Sound: The final piece to the puzzle is sound. The great soundtrack completes the game making it 
 fun and modern. It features some great songs and keeps the game upbeat. 10/10
  
  Tony Hawk's American Sk8land is a game that never gets old and has one of the best replay values 
 of any DS game. It's always fun will never bore you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: loyed
Rating: 9.2
Date: Dec 29, 2006 7:06 pm PT
Review:  This game generaly is fun, there are a good amount of missions to do in story mode, you can costomize 
 your character with alot of different close and stuff, there are several good and helf good songs 
 on the playlist in the game, there are a ton of good skate moves, and it has amazingly great graphics 
 that makes the game more fun. Also I like that you dont use the touch screen alot, (only using 
 special moves and freaking) which is good in a tony hawk game.
  One bad thing though is that the game is pretty easy compared to other tony hawk games, all of 
 the missions are fun in all but on half of the levels i can get 250000+ in one combo and in most 
 of the missions you only need at the most like 50000, the game is long but i beat it in 2 days 
 (playing for only 5 hours a day including time to freeskate. The other only bad thing is the WFC 
 game modes are not all too fun, you can pretty much freeskate online or compete for most points 
 but its better than no WFC.
  Overal this game is great. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mariofan1314
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 25, 2006 10:37 am PT
Review:  Tony Hawk has suceeded in becoming a good skater ,but he hasn't suceeded in game making, if you 
 look at the series you'll see many goods, and bads ,but this DS game is certainly not one of the 
 bads! In Tony Hawks American Sk8land you play as yourself ,a skater trying to make it as a big time 
 skater in Hollywood, CA. The game is pretty much a re-make of the Tony Hawk title American Wasteland 
 ,but has it's own differences. The gameplay is fun. The whole free-roam theme is great, running around 
 getting cash is what i'd expect and that's what I got. The Wi-Fi makes the game even better though 
 there's no guarntee that you'll get a connection with someone. The graphics are okay depending 
 on how you look at it. If you like cartooney type graphics then they're excellent ,but if you're 
 used to next-gen or simple grahics (like New. Super Mario Bros.) then this certaily dosent contain 
 your type. Sounds is pretty cool. Before every subtitle you read you'll hear an actual voice saying 
 something like , Alright! depending on the charecter you're talking to's mood. The falling off your 
 skateboard sounds like you're falling off a skateboard with the sound off an , OW! or the skateboard 
 crashing to the ground. The value is excellent ! This game really can be one of the best DS games 
 if you really think. Overall this game is excellent almost being the best of it's kind. That's why 
 I give Tony Hawks American Sk8land 9 oddly looking waiters out of 10. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Greenfire
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 5, 2008 1:04 pm PT
Review:  Gameplay: The way you play is almost identical to the console versions, you press different combinations 
 of buttons to do different tricks. Story mode has you collecting money by doing objectives for 
 people so you can
  create your own skate park. Multiplayer is a nice little addition but nothing to big.
  
  Sound: 
 This game has a terrific sound track and the sound effects sound authentic. Its also nifty that 
 you can add your own sound effects via mic.
  
  Grapchis: Screen shots don't do this game justice. Its absolutely remarkable how fluid everything 
 looks and feels. The cell shading looks incredible
  
  Value: Story is mode is entertaining for awhile and after that you can play online but I find this 
 game best to pick up and play when your bored.
  
  Bottom Line: This is a great hidden gem for the DS and should be in everyones collection. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: PoeTokoro
Rating: 7.8
Date: Dec 8, 2006 11:14 am PT
Review:  This is Poe Tokoro again with the review of Tony Hawk's American Sk8land!
  
  Gameplay: The game's controls are easy to learn, unlike other Tony Hawk games, this one uses a 
 D-pad instead of a analog stick. The D-pad works way better than the stick. And the pad let's you 
 pull off the same amount of tricks but it's easier to do it. The touch controls... aren't as great. 
 You will wish the Focus activator was mapped to a button instead of having to touch it in the middle 
 of a combo.
  
  Graphics: This game used a more kiddish look to it instead of a realistic look. The Cel-shade design 
 was excellent and was a good choice for the DS version. Although, the movies... they downright suck. 
 There lame still framed cartoons with voices that don't even have feet. Your character is never 
 shown, unlike the Underground games. The story itself is lame. Sound: Being able to choose all 
 those songs with good speaker quality is definitly good. The voice overs are good in the cinemas, 
 but not in gameplay. All the character sound like they used the sound recorder that you use, they 
 talk for less than 5 seconds with some weird line. Anyway everything else in sound is good.
  
  Value: For about $25, it's not that big a rip off. The game's wi-fi horrible because, no one 
 ever goes on. You will spend an hour just searching for 1person! The multi-player is good, if you 
 can find someone with the game.
  
  Overall: I say rent it. The game is not worth buying you would be better off with Mario Kart DS.
 
  
  -Poe Tokoro 
::::::

::::::
UserName: LOZFAN6537
Rating: 9.6
Date: Nov 30, 2006 7:49 am PT
Review:  Tony Hawk's American Sk8land is the first Tony Hawk game for the DS and the first good portable 
 game in the series. The story is the same as American Wasteland only with some changes. The game 
 begins with your character winning a skate compitition somewhere in the midwest. It just so happens 
 that Tony Hawk is running this contest and he notices you and takes you back to Hollywood. Which 
 is where you meet Mindy who goes crazy when she finds out that your character is hanging out with 
 Tony Hawk and then the three of you go to destroy stuff and turn it into skate ramps for your own 
 skate park the Warehouse. The game is very short and can be completed in about three hours and 
 the classic mode takes two hours but the game's levels which are the same ones from American Wasteland 
 with the exception of the Alcatraz level which is brought back from THPS4 are very fun to explore 
 and just roam around in trying to get high scores. American Sk8land also has great multiplayer 
 you can choose from DS to DS or you can go online and play on Wi-Fi. The graphics are very good 
 they have a nice cartoony feel to them all of the cutscenes are done in comic book form. The sound 
 is very good also there is a small soundtrack made up of songs from American Wasteland and being 
 able to make custom bail sounds is very cool. American Sk8land Is a fantastic game that should 
 be bought by any fan of the Tony Hawk series and newcomers to the series.
  
  ~LOZFAN6537 
::::::

::::::
UserName: LAZZOR
Rating: 8.6
Date: Nov 24, 2006 10:51 am PT
Review:  This game rules, period! I really enjoy the Tony Hawk games. I was a bit skeptical when I picked 
 this game up but as soon as I loaded it into my DS I was hooked. This game is basically American 
 Wasteland DS but that's not a bad thing.
  
  Let's start with the games graphics. It's cel-shaded which feels right at home on the DS. 2D full-voiced 
 comic style scences replace the 3D cutscenes found in the console versions of this game. Tony Hawk 
 himself lends his voices himself in this verison. The levels are stripped down versions of this 
 console counterparts which is still not a bad thing.
  
  The most important thing here is how the game plays. A game of this complexity handles like a dream 
 on the DS. D-pad controls movements, you have instant access to special moves via the touch screen, 
 and the other buttons act like they way they would if you were playing this on your Xbox or Playstation 
 2.
  
  As for multiplayer, American Sk8land supports t he DS WiFi network aswell as the standard multicard 
 play but this game isn't perfect. During some of my play sessions I've noticed a few graphical 
 and gameplay glitches but thats to be expected with a game of this magnitude on a handheld like 
 the DS.
  
  I'd suggest this to anyone who enjoys the Tony Hawk franchise or someone who wants to be extreme 
 on the go. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Troy360
Rating: 7
Date: Nov 19, 2006 8:01 am PT
Review:  Ive played Tony hawk games since The first.
  
  Id say underground 2 is my favorite, and this game is nearly as good.
  
  But you cant get off 
 your board, its a hard transition.
  
  Too little songs.
  
  You either use the Steet style of grinding and manuals or fail,
  Vert is virtually useless. ESPECIALLY 
 online.
  
  Stylus use is also hard, maybe they could have used the Left trigger
  to slow time, and the freak out is a good idea, it gives you SOME points for a huge combo if you 
 screw up. :)
  
  PROS
  The controls are great, the wifi is OK, and it has music, REAL music.
  In depth website.
  
 
  CONS
  Took away some multiplayer classics, story is short and lame, and
  the Warehouse editor is very limited, Limited songs, youll probably
  hear Holiday , or I like 
 Dirt about 30 times while beating the story.
  
  Making my own level/sk8 park was my favorite part of the other games, but w/e. Still a good game.
 
  
  8/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: old_school24
Rating: 8.6
Date: Nov 9, 2006 1:41 pm PT
Review:  Tony Hawk's American Sk8land is definately one of the best games for DS and i'd say the best sports 
 game for the Nintendo DS. Although the story mode is lacking a little bit, and is a little short, 
 i found this game an instant classic and i couldn't put it down. Even after you beat the game, 
 you will still want to keep playing on the other modes to get high scores, and find all the gaps, 
 etc. I also found the Wi-Fi capability very good, and its fun to play other people and compare 
 your skills. You will also want to get your character to full stats, and become better than the 
 pros.
  
  Tony Hawk's American Sk8land = MUST HAVE! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: falco182
Rating: 8.9
Date: Oct 22, 2006 6:06 am PT
Review:  ok this reveiw is for tony hawks american sk8land on the ds. this is the first tont hawks game 
 on the ds and the first tony hawks game on a nintendo handheld that hasnt got the rubbish legacy 
 camera.
  
  graphics: the graphics on the ds wont be the best but the graphics on this game is gr8. the graphics 
 are cel shaded like the dragon ball z games so this makes a change for tony hawks games but its 
 a good change.
  
  camera: the camera is way better than the rubbish camera on the gameboy. on the gameboy it has 
 a legacy camera which is like a birds eye veiw but tilted and hard to control. however on the ds 
 it has the same camera as on the normal tony hawks games which makes the game easier to control 
 and better looking. you can also change the camera to legacy camera but i think u shud just leave 
 it as it is.
  
  gameplay: the gameplay is just like any other tony hawks game however this time to freak out you 
 use the stylus and to do special moves much easier you use the stylus to clik on a move and it 
 does it so thats gr8.
  
  sound: the sound is good but not as good as the console versions. the music on this game is good 
 if you like greenday and evrythin (like i do) . also theres this special feature which lets you 
 record your own voices adn sounds to play when you do a special move or when you fall over.
  
  value: i bought this game for christmas and it wasnt old then so i payed &pound;30 and im glad 
 i did because this a gr8 game and worth every penny. now you wud be able to get this game for way 
 cheaper so i suggest to get it. there are loads of extras to get too thers like 20cheats to earn 
 and you build your own skate park you can also design your graffiti and board with the stylus and 
 designing the boards leaves you playing it for hours.
  
  overall:
  GET THIS GAME! ou use the stylus and to do special moves much easier you use the stylus to clik 
 on a move and it does it so thats gr8.
  
  no really getit its a brilliant game nad it has wifi but i havnt tried it yet so i dont no wot 
 its like but still get it go on get it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kittykatz5k
Rating: 9.2
Date: Oct 18, 2006 9:09 am PT
Review:  It's been a worry that this game would be horrible considering it's wasteland bretheran and bad 
 GBA version, but those worries were put asside very quickly when I simply got to the games menus 
 and beyond. From a simple menu, you can find out the developers really tried on this game. Taking 
 a cel shaded look, the game is able to produce 60 FPS graphics with nice desine and detail. You'll 
 find everything you expect from the console versions laid out on the menu, and your customization, 
 while not nessessaroly deep, do allow an open ended charecter creation.
  
  Pros:
  -Many modes galore to keep you busy!
  -Wacky cutscenes that manage to be silly and better than 
 wasteland counterparts.
  -If you're new to tonyhawk or have never mastered it, this game will teach you everyhitng from 
 transisioning rail to manuals and beyond so you can rack up your best combos!
  -Touch screen makes once overly complicated specials, while not exremely easy to pull off, very 
 simple to do.
  -Music soundtrack features some very good songs to be jamming tricks to and a memorable part.
 
  -Very good graphics! The cel shading manages to make it look like an old 80's cartoon, rather 
 than a pathetic attempt at saying space.
  -Ecorages a lot of replay without feeling like a chore!
  -Lots of diffrent lands to skate in, 
 each with their high points!
  -Downloadable missions that are quite a challenge
  -Never have I listed so many pros in 1 review!
  
  Cons
  -You must be online to play the downloaded 
 missions!
  -Online is overly simple, lacking any true multiplayer modes of play.
  -60 FPS makes this game very VERY fast. If you don't have catlike reflexes in past tony hawks, 
 you've better learn now!
  -Missions in offline mode are very simple and act more as a tony hawk training coarse than as a 
 test of your skill.
  -Collisions with walls while moving can get wonkey.
  
  I have not bought a tony hawk sense tony hawk pro skater 2, but from the many I have played, this 
 is the most acsessable, downright fun tony hawk I've seen in a long time. It doesn't have bikes 
 such that these new tony hawks are getting, it just gets right what it needs to, the skating! This 
 is a must have if you have any intrest in past tony hawks. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tomacres
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 1, 2006 9:26 am PT
Review:  It has been a great year for the DS-loads of great top selling games have comeout including Nintendogs, 
 Advance Wars, Castlevania, Animal Crossing, Mario Kart and with Metroid Prime and more top titles 
 heading our wy in 2006, I wouldn't be too shocked to see DS overtaking PSP in the 'must have handheld 
 stakes.
  
  American Sk8land is the DS version of Ameican Wasteland for PS2, Xbox and GC. This game is amazing 
 and is definately not just a port!
  
  Gameplay: Really slick and smooth which makes it fun and simple and easy to learn and play. It's 
 very addictive and is great to pick up and play when your bored, on the plane or in your car. The 
 massive free-roaming environments are also superb!
  
  Graphics: Tony gets cel-shaded and it works like a dream with the slick gameplay. All the environments 
 look great as do the characters and the cut scenes work like a comic book as seen in Ultimate Spiderman. 
 Activision is really getting into this cel shaded stuff!
  
  Sound: The cut-scenes contain full voice over and the quotes in the gamplay sound good. The soundtrack 
 is great and the ability to record your own cath phrases while playing using the mic is genius!
 
  
  Value/Lifespan: There's loads to do with story mode, classic mode, multiplayer, online and just 
 cruising round the city. You could also spend hours just creating skaters, designing borads and 
 graffiti tags and recording voice over!
  
  Overall this is a great game and any DS owner should certainley check it out, wouldn't be surprised 
 if you wanted to buy it. An instand classic for The Nintendo DS. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: loopy_101
Rating: 8.5
Date: Sep 27, 2008 3:38 pm PT
Review:  Tony Hawk's is regarded as a sporting legend, not only thanks to his excellent skill in skateboarding 
 but because of his renowned video game series THPS (Tony Hawk's Pro Skater) .
  
  This Tony Hawk's is based on the seventh game, American Wasteland. Yet some critics do not compare 
 the two, this version is called American Sk8land. So why the change? 
  
  Well really because it's aimed at the younger gamers at heart, and the story has been tweaked in 
 a few places, yet the vast majority of the plot remains the same. For a DS game American Sk8land 
 is amazing. 
  
  Many games (or many third party games to be precise) don't take advantage of the DS' 3D capabilities. 
 Yet fortunatly THAS does that, and better, taking advantage of some cool cell shading techniques. 
 
  
  American Sk8land is set out like a comic and to give the immersion of this comic book world; developers, 
 Vicarious Visons which is why we are presented with the cartoon look, and it works well for the 
 most part, running at fast frame rates with lots of detail.
  
  Whoever's played games like Jet Set Radio should cry out with joy to this, and this really does 
 set a new standard to how DS' games should look... And play, were not talking a simplified version 
 of American Wasteland but close to a replica of another great THPS game, THPS4.
  
  Although it was a little dissapointing to see that the off-the-board feature was missing, gamers 
 still can spine transfer, manuel and do specials as they could on the console equivalent.
  
  It is clear Vicarious Visions has worked hard to convert this over, yet the only problem would 
 be its reptitive at times and some goals can fustrate. Yet the effort is outsanding, especially 
 how the music's been brought together. Hell, even the voice acting is good.
  
  The music of course is to match with the skating; Meaning bands like Green Day are present. The 
 voices too; uncanny or atleast very close to uncanny voices of Tony Hawk, Tony Alva and Rodney 
 Mullen. All the sound has excellent quality and has to be part of some of the best on DS.
  
  Concluding this review however, the length of the game could of been longer and more of an 
 experience then a chore. Never fear though because Wi-Fi and head-to-head modes help combat this.
 
  
  So check this game out. American Sk8land is both a solid skating game and a solid DS game, it's 
 definatly worth trying. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Splitterguy
Rating: 7.4
Date: Sep 11, 2006 5:08 pm PT
Review:  The story mode is a colossal dissapointment. The core gameplay is actually great! The controls 
 are just like the PS2 controls... sort of.
  
  You see, in story mode, there is actually a 'challenge' where you gave to do a few ollies. For 
 those of you new to all this, that's pressing the jump button. I figured, hey, it's the first level, 
 give it a break, right? Well, not one 'challenge' in story mode that's actually challenging. They 
 are incredibly stupid and boring, especially for those of us who already own all of the other games. 
 In short, it plays like a big, boring, stupid, tutorial.
  
  The classic mode is where it's at! It's challenging, too! More so then some T. H. games, which is 
 cool. There are some cool DS features, too. You can record your own voice, which is cool. The graphics 
 are some of the best graphics on the DS. The cell shading is very impressive, and cool looking, 
 too. On major problem kept me from giving it a 10, though. Not one person has a face, and it looks 
 really creepy, in a bad way.
  
  The sound is great, especially the soundtrack. The downside is that it gets really repetitive, 
 and let's face it, screaming I LIKE DIRT! into a mic doesn't make a good song. (Yes that's right, 
 there is a song about dirt on here)
  
  After you beat it, you'll definiatly wanna go and play all of those fun levels again, and maybe 
 play online. But playing classic mode isn't nearly as fast as the other games, so beating classic 
 mode with everyone gets boring fast.
  
  The No.1 problem is the controls. If your used to the Gamecube controls or PS2 controls, then there 
 are some problems. Your fingers are used to more spaced out buttons, and you'll hit 2 or 3 buttons 
 at once often, killing combos. Manuals are difficult to pull off, which can also kill combos.
 
  
  I should be a buy for any THPS fan, but remember that if you hate bad controls, this is a questionable 
 pick. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: crashpro
Rating: 1.8
Date: Aug 27, 2006 9:15 pm PT
Review:  Tony Hawk American Sk8lan for the Nintendo DS is a horible game. There is everything in the game 
 is so repetitive, like "Do an OLLY and I'll give you the same ammount of money as the last NPC 
 (non-playable character) Or "Hey this is Tony Hawk, and I ran into annother PRO-SKATER like the 
 last level. You can problebly beat the ENTIRE game in 1-2 days. On the plus side there is WI-FI 
 but who cares you can play ONLINE using PS2-ONLINE / XBOX-LIVE version: TONY HAWK"S AMERICAN WASTLAND 
 or TONY HAWK'S UNDERGROUND 2. I declare this game WORST than E. T. for ATTARI. THIS IS THE WORST 
 GAME EVER!!! NEVER BUY THIS. WAY TOO EASY!!! HORRIBLE HORRIBLE HORRIBLE!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kilikfire
Rating: 9.6
Date: Aug 15, 2006 8:28 am PT
Review:  This was the first game I got for the DS, and let me tell you, it is awesome. It's single-player 
 is crap, though, as you can beat it in less than an hour and get your stats to maximum in one combo. 
 Using the microphone, you can record your own voice for bails, gaps, and special tricks. You can 
 d special tricks by either tapping one of the symbols on the touch screen or by pressing the right 
 button combination. The bottom screen also serves as a map when you're playing. When you bail, 
 you tap the touch-screen in order to freak out. The new cell-shaded graphics work great with the 
 DS, and the soundtrack, although small, is very good. Some people find it unappealing that you 
 cannot get off your board, but it adds a little more difficulty to the game. Multiplayer is where 
 this game shines, however, and it does it very well. There is an online community at www. american-sk8land. com, 
 and it is very good. You can make or join a sk8 crew, which is a band of players formed together. 
 It uses the friend code system, so you have to get other people's codes if you want to play against 
 them. You can also upload your drawings to the internet and have them rated. Also, your high scores 
 are posted online and it adds a nice level of competitiveness to the game. Sadly, there are a lot 
 of cheap lines you can do to rack up a bunch of points, and the community is now somewhat corrupt. 
 You can also download new single-player goals to do, so in a way, this game will never end. It 
 also supports multi-card play. If you don't have a wireless signal at your house, don't bother 
 with this game. Otherwise, I'll see you online. My name's Skaterman9, my crew is the Monos Sagrados. 
 Play me if you want to be pwned (I'm 161st worldwide) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: X_VADER_X
Rating: 6.2
Date: Aug 7, 2006 7:34 pm PT
Review:  Tony Hawks American Sk8land uses the same type of gameplay as the console versions and is fun at 
 first but gets very boring after awhile.
  
  The good part about this game is that its a regular Tony Hawk game in the palm of your hands as 
 it still has a good soundtrack and style. The downsides about this game is that it was made for 
 beginners of the game (And know this is the 7th Tony hawk game) The hardest mode was way to easy 
 as I compleated all the goals in 1 day... 1 DAY...
  
  Also the Wi-Fi in this game is weak. No one really plays this game. So it will take you forever 
 to find a player. and you only play against 1 player with basic game types.
  
  The customize features in this game is fun. You can Create a board Grapphic, A tag, and even put 
 your voice in for finding a gap or getting a bail.
  
  The game sounds cool at first. But after finding out the games difficulty is easy and not much 
 people play it. It doesnt sound fun anymore.
  
  Rent the game. Beat it in a day or two. Return it. 
  
  6.2 out of 10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rodimus_prime85
Rating: 7.2
Date: Jul 29, 2006 7:17 pm PT
Review:  I love the Tony Hawks games, ever since Pro Skater 2 on the PS playing as Spider-Man, the Hawkster's 
 games have always been great fun. American Sk8 Land is no acception, and any one who is looking 
 for Hawk on the DS console won't be dissapointed. It''s typical mass combo collecting, errand fetching 
 stuff, and Hawk pro's won't find anything too surprising.
  
  As fo DS features, you can draw your own board, graffeti tag and you can even record your own voice 
 for when busting a special. Putting a bit of time in I managed to create a pretty decent looking 
 board, and great looking Sonic tag for graffeti. 3 different specials can be activated any time 
 the special bar is full by tapping it on the touch screen, and its the same for the slo-mo concentrate 
 button. The rest of the touch screen is filled with a handy map which is extreamly helpful during 
 annoying search-and-fetch missions.
  
  Other then that however, or at least control wise, its the same as the PS version. B jumps, X grinds 
 and Y & A act as the grab/flip trick buttons with the sholder buttons acting as spin/revert/tranfer. 
 Again, typical Hawkster stuff. The in game framerate is smooth, and the levels are impressivly 
 big for the DS incoperating a great cel-shaded look. Sound wise, its clear and crisp except for 
 some low bitrate MP3 music which sounds muffled at high volume through the speakers, but slightly 
 better through headphones. Again, concidering the DS cartriage can't hold as much data as a UMD, 
 the selection of music is fairly big.
  
  But whats wrong with the game? Well after nearly a decade of bluntslides, wallplants and kickflips, 
 there seems little in the way of challenge. I finished the story section of the game in 3 seatings, 
 only struggling on the very last level and even then, it was only about 2 of the tasks and I was 
 still able to do them after about 5 or 6 tries. Other then that however I did all the tasks on 
 my first or second attempt. The lengh of the game is streached out a little bit more by classic 
 mode, which admittly I still need to finish some of the sick scores and secret tapes, but other 
 then that its the same as story mode, 'Grind the train track', 'find 4 hydrants' and the challenge 
 isn't great.
  
  Luckily good old Wi-Fi adds a solid multi-play mode, but both DS's will need a copy of the game. 
 However the games worth buying if your firend has a copy. It was the only reason I got the game, 
 and multi-play will add alot of value to the game.
  
  A solid, if not unsurprising Hawk outting on the DS. I've given it a fairly low score since I'm 
 getting a little peed off with Activision making me spend yet another 30 on what essentially is 
 the same game as the old PSone titles, but fans of Tony Hawk will enjoy the game, if only for about 
 10 hours. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nishamuffypuppy
Rating: 8
Date: Aug 23, 2007 6:22 pm PT
Review:  Introduction: Tony Hawk- who hasn't heard of a franchise as successful as this one? Being the most 
 popular extreme sports title on the market, the Tony Hawk franchise has always been an endearing 
 title to grace the consoles, providing a fresh flair of action and fun. With some spin-off titles 
 from the Classic Pro Skater series, such as THUG or American Wasteland, Tony Hawk now arrives on 
 the Nintendo DS in its own spin-off title in what is called American Sk8Land- simply, this game 
 does not disappoint and is a great addition to any DS owner's collection. With new options, Online 
 Play, a new cel-shaded look, and the same classic style of skating in a professional skateboarders 
 universe, Tony Hawk for the DS is a success. So what makes this game so compelling as its console 
 predecessors? Read on to find out more about the DS's first extreme sports title.
  
  Presentation: American Sk8Land sports a great presentation. The games camera sport the look that 
 is fresh and new, but it still feels like a classic Tony Hawk game that you remembered. The looks 
 is great, and even the game sports a soundtrack with tunes that fits the game's style well. The 
 game's menus however are a bit simplistic and unattractive, but everything else in the game is 
 just what you would need for a portable rendition of a Tony Hawk skater.
  
  Story: Ok, so Tony Hawk's American Sk8Land has a Story mode, not something that is typically found 
 in a sports title, but this game so have its own simple little story- in the game's Story Mode 
 of course. You start out being a custom made skater (with both genders available, as well as plenty 
 of customization options) , by you, from the eastern United States- you are already a great skater 
 and have won countless competitions in the east. Being the famed, yet young rookie skater you are, 
 your amazing achievments are spotted by none other than Tony Hawk himself. Him and his skating 
 crew are heading towards the luxury of Hollywood, California, and have an extra spot on his tour 
 bus, so looks like your hitching along for a ride! Once you arrive, you meet local skater chick 
 named Mindy who is completely enthralled by you speaking with Tony Hawk, so she gives you a tour 
 of the town and watches your skills. Later when Tony gets back from his photo shoot, he decides 
 to show you the Warehouse, a special landmark for the professional skaters. However, the park is 
 a bit rundown, so Mindy sports an idea for you to impress citizens of the city- to earn money for 
 the Warehouses improvement. Not the typical story you would find in a game, but it works nevertheless 
 and adds a bit of a flair to the game.
  
  Graphics: Tony Hawk's American Sk8Land sports a new cel-shaded look that is new to the series, 
 and it succeeds. Many gamers do not consider the Nintendo DS to be too much of a power house, but 
 seeing American Sk8Land in action really makes you appreciate the cel-shaded look as well as the 
 system's hardware capabilities. The game succeeds in just about every way for being able to represent 
 the game in the classic Tony Hawk look. The games camera is stationed behind the skater, but there 
 is also a optional Legacy Camera mode which lets you view the game in the classic camera mode that 
 was present in the Game Boy Advance games. Its a great addition, but I still prefer the look that 
 is reminiscent of the console version. However, American Sk8Land isn't without its flaws. Some 
 levels later on in the game have a look that is somewhat bland, and the game does have an interesting 
 physics engine. However, the game runs smoothly and is great outlook for gamers to see what the 
 Nintendo DS can do. As well, the game sports in the Story Mode, cut scenes that feel just like 
 they were ripped out of a comic book, and they are great visuals to view in the game- they are 
 great to watch, and they are also available to watch as you complete each stage of the Story Mode. 
 The cel-shaded look is fresh and new, and its a great rendition for the Nintendo DS version of 
 the Tony Hawk franchise.
  
  Sound: American Sk8Land sports some great sound. For starters, the game comes with an equipped 
 of around 12 tracks of songs by artists around the world (such as Holiday, by Green Day) , however, 
 some of the songs have been shortened to fit the storage capabilities of the Nintendo DS cartridge. 
 The music itself sounds great however, and it really is surprising to see a good sound on the DS's 
 stereo speakers. The game as well has its own series of in game sounds, but of course they are 
 only simplistic sounds that were found in other Tony Hawk games. As well, as an interesting feature, 
 American Sk8Land offers a special capability that utilizes the Nintendo DS microphonse. With this 
 feature, you can add sounds by which will play when you land a trick, or even biff on a combo. 
 Its an interesting feature that is pretty entertaining to have in the game, even without its necessities. 
 This game has some great sound overall, and is really probably some of the best on the system.
 
  
  Gameplay: Tony Hawk American Sk8Land wouldn't be a Tony Hawk game if it didn't sport the same gameplay 
 style as its predecessors right? Well this game on the DS succeeds, and plays just as well as its 
 console counterparts. The game sports four main trick options (Grabs, Flips, Grinds, and Manuals) 
 ans each is rendered on the DS's ABXY pad well enough as you remember on past consoles. The layout 
 is great, and the classic moves are back in the game as well; from Airwalks, to Madonnas, the game 
 sports plenty of grinds and grabs to suit a skating gamers needs. But what about Specials? Tony 
 Hawk does sport in game Specials, and they utilize the DS's Touch Screen as well for easier access- 
 this being one of the new features that is exclusively available on the Nintendo DS. Your character 
 will be equipped with three specials in the beginning: an Air Special, a Grind Special, and a Manual 
 Special. When your character performs and lands a series of tricks, your Special Meter will fill 
 completely and you will have the option of performing one of these specials by either manually 
 using the Directional Pad in combination with the Buttons, or you could press an icon on the DS's 
 Touch Screen. Its a great feature which can help in some situations to ramp up plenty of good combos, 
 but it does in a way feel like cheating. As well as on the Touch Screen, there is a special button 
 that utilizes the Special Meter as well. When your Meter is completely filed up, you can press 
 the Slow Motion button to watch your character perform his or her series of tricks in slow motion, 
 which is an entertaining addition to the series. However, it drains your Special Meter rather frequently 
 so best land some amazing combos to keep it filled. So what else utilizes the Nintendo DS's Touch 
 Screen? Well during the course of skating, it sports a map of the area, which can come in quite 
 handy when your either looking for citizens or just finding the perfect place to skate. But there 
 is one new feature that is present int American Sk8Land that wasn't available in past games, and 
 this it the Freak Out option. By so, when your character fails to perform a trick or a combo, three 
 bars will appear on the system's Touch Screen. They will raise up and down in a quick motion, depending 
 on how many points you lost performing that one combo or trick. When the bars reach their highest 
 mark, its best to tap the bar (with three in total) , and by successful, you will gain a portion 
 of the points that you lost while performing the trick. Its an interesting addition to the game, 
 however it does feel like you can rack up that amount of points by simply performing another combo 
 in the time it takes you to tap the three bars on screen. These are some of the new features available 
 in American Sk8Land, but this version of Tony Hawk is still the same faithful rendition of past 
 games. So what else is apparent in the game? Well, the main portion of the game will probably take 
 place in the games Story Mode. There are seven levels by which you can explore in total, which 
 is somewhat shallow, however they are large and for sure will suit a portable system's needs. As 
 well, the Story Mode is rather short but of course, there is a backup option for larger re playability. 
 This option is the game's Classic Mode, which is represented in the fashion that was present in 
 the Pro Skater series. By which, you have the same system- by racking up High, Pro, and Sick Scores, 
 collecting S. K. A. T. E. and C. O. M. B. O., and of course finding the Secret Tape. There are other goals 
 to achieve as well, and this is a great addition to the series which will lengthen the games value. 
 Classic and Story Mode are the hearts of the game, but Tony Hawk also sports a Multiplayer and 
 Wi-Fi Option, which is explained below. The game also has a Free Skate Mode, which is a great option 
 to pass the time or practice combos and tricks. The last feature that is available in the DS rendition 
 is the Skateshop, which is a famous addition that was present in previous games. By which, you 
 can customize your skateboard, or buy a new deck to change the look. As well, you can paint or 
 create your own new deck that is completely original by you. Its a great feature, however due to 
 the fact that the Story Mode's in game cash option doesn't let you purchase items from the shop, 
 it sort of draws away from that goal that you need to constantly collect cash to add to your skating 
 collection. So what do you need to purchase with the cash anyways? Well, this game does sport a 
 somewhat interesting park editor, by which is the game's Warehouse of the Story Mode. You can't 
 particularly place objects in your skate park in particular spots, however there are many different 
 pieces to choose from to make the park your own. However, the DS being the system it is, it would 
 be nice to see some type of park editor of some sort in the next Tony Hawk game. Well as you have 
 read, Tony Hawk for the DS is great game that is highly reminiscent of past games, and its a great 
 game on the whole. But of course, Tony Hawk wouldn't be the same if it didn't have a Multiplayer 
 option right? Well it does for the DS, and here's the scoop on this option:
  
  Multiplayer/Online Capabilities: Tony Hawk was one of the first games to sport Online Capabilities 
 on the Nintendo DS using the Nintendo Wi-Fi connection, and it did a great job of it as well. The 
 game also sports a local connection with Multi Card play, so its great addition. With local play, 
 you and your competitor can perform in classic options like Horse or Trick Attack, so its a great 
 mode. But of course, Wi-Fi Connection is the big feature for American Sk8Land. By which, this option 
 is a bit more advanced and featured than that of Mario Kart DS, and its a great system. You of 
 course, have a Friend Option by which you can skate against others who have your Friend Code, and 
 you can also do a randomized mode where you appear in a park of vote with a competitor. It is originally 
 in Free Skate, but you can also vote to play a game such as Trick Attack with your competitor. 
 As well, Wi-Fi Connection also has other features. For starters, when you first connect, there 
 will be an update by the Tony Hawk staff which you can read which will give you the latest scoop 
 on other options. Another interesting option that is available is the scoreboard; with this, you 
 can see high scores that were performed by other players and you will be ranked amongst the top 
 100 of you are successful. There are also downloads available, and uploading of your own special 
 features which is a great addition for the Online Play. Tony Hawk is successful in the Online formula, 
 however there is one more thing that I must confirm: its the fact that this game wasn't exactly 
 the most popular game to be released, and due to this, finding gamers online can be a bit troublesome 
 sometimes. However, it is a great experience that any DS gamer should add to their collection and 
 consider checking out.
  
  Value: Tony Hawk's American Sk8Land is a great game with plenty of new features, but by which the 
 game's value falls rather flat. This is due to the fact that the game's Single Player mode (s) can 
 be conquered in a mere number of hours, even with its enjoyable and memorable moments. The parks 
 are great and original to be used in the Free Skate option, but its a variation by how long this 
 game will last you- depending on your taste and overall experience with this game. The game's Multiplayer 
 option is a great option, but due to the lack of players makes the game have a little bit of a 
 setback in terms of lasting value. However, Tony Hawk's American Sk8Land is a great achievement 
 on the Nintendo DS. The great and stylized graphics, the amazing sound, and classic gameplay of 
 previous Tony hawk games make this game a true and faithful rendition in the Tony Hawk franchise, 
 and it shouldn't be missed by any Nintendo DS owner looking for a fast and stylized extreme sports 
 title. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Smasher24
Rating: 8.9
Date: Jul 26, 2006 6:39 am PT
Review:  Tony Hawk American Sk8land for the DS plays surprisingly well. A colorful environment surrounds 
 the skater which is customizable . The touch screen function adds to the gameplay and creation 
 aspect of the Tony Hawk Franchise. Use your stylus to create graffiti, create your skateboard design, 
 and (while in game) to do extra specials or slow-motion. The dual-screen function includes the 
 city map on the bottom for help in collecting items. The built-in microphone adds some fun to the 
 game by allowing players to record a short clip that is played for either bails, specials, and/or 
 gaps.
  
  THAS packs many features into the tiny cartridge. The game runs very smooth at all times and has 
 some great physics and slow motion effects. Story mode has the skater embark on a quest to create 
 there own skateland, or as its called in game, Warehouse. Classic Mode is where the player has 
 a two minute time limit to achieve certain goals like high scores and collecting items.
  
  Problems in the game include a rather easy story mode, limited custom accessories, and rigid graphics. 
 That being said, the art style, gameplay and music make up for those flaws. I have yet to play 
 the Wi-Fi connection modes online which I'm sure adds even more fun to this classic. 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: HisBrother
Rating: 10
Date: Jul 22, 2006 8:34 pm PT
Review:  What can I say about Tony Hawks games? Well they've been going downhill without the jam ever since 
 I've known but American Sk8land on DS really brings out the best in Tony Hawks and for the Nintendo 
 DS too!
  
  Ill start off with the graphics. The idea of making it cell shaded was superb! Hardly any pixels 
 to see and the frame rate ran at a beautiful solid 60fps! It really showcased what the DS could 
 do by pushing it to the limits. The only problem I had was with the water effects.. No splash or 
 falling when you skated on water.. you just skated normally but that didn't affect the game at ALL!
 
  
  On to the gameplay. Simply amazing. Story to controls, just amazing. The controls made it feel 
 like you were playing on an SNES version of a skateboarding game except in magnificent 3d!! The 
 storyline was great which added to gameplay and value. The multiplayer and wifi also gives a major 
 plus to the lasting value of this game.
  
  This game is terrific! Its one of the must have games for DS, if you're not a fan of skateboarding 
 games rent it and it will most definitely change your mind! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SpecialED1020
Rating: 9.4
Date: Jul 18, 2006 6:46 am PT
Review:  I just bought this game a couple days ago but I'm hooked. Sure I beat the story already, but there's 
 still a lot to do in classic mode. The customizationin the game is brilliant. The graphics, though 
 cell-shaded, are suburb. The soundtrack is great. The variety is awesome. I can; t really say much 
 for the online because I havn't played that yet. But this is a great Tony Hawk Game, if you like 
 the games there is no reason you shouldn't pick this one up. This gives me opes for Downhill jam 
 comming out later this year. I find myself going into a random level just free skating, because 
 even though it sound slike it can get old, is very fun. I love this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ze1daplayer
Rating: 9
Date: Jul 16, 2006 3:45 am PT
Review:  I've beat it in story mode about 3 times now. I think all the goals are too easy but it's fun to 
 just skate. I've beat classic with almost every one. I think the touch screen stuff is really cool: 
 Making your graffiti, board graphics, doing specials, freaking out. Once I got really far in classic 
 like to the Warehouse, I had to use cheats to get the sick score. Once I got this game I could 
 not put it down, It was just really fun. It's not like the games where you die, then you get really 
 mad and stop playing and say the game sucks (but most of you don't any way ) , cause you can't die 
 and you can re-do everything. Still playing it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: somecrazymoogle
Rating: 8.4
Date: Jul 14, 2006 3:31 am PT
Review:  Like it or hate it, the Tony Hawk series is here to stay. Since it's first release back in the 
 days of the Playstation 1 and Nintendo 64 the series has just repeated itself over and over with 
 each new title added to the series. This isn't a bad thing though since the formula works and with 
 each new title, one or two new features are added that seem to fit right into the game mechanics. 
 So let me say now that if you were not a fan of previous Tony Hawk titles, then don't bother adding 
 this game to you game library.
  
  The first thing you will notice about American Sk8land is the new toon style graphics in the game. 
 Now before the Wind Waker haters go out and burn this game they should know that the graphics work 
 with this game and they still have the classic Tony Hawk feel from the older games. However, while 
 this game may look like a N64 game, it plays more like the newer games in the series like Underground 
 and American Wasteland. But like every other DS game released, they had to throw in some touch 
 screen and microphone functionality.
  
  While these features are included in the game, it is possible to ignore them completely and still 
 get through most of the game, but getting high scores will be more difficult to obtain. The touch 
 screen has 2 roles in this game, firstly they give you access to new tricks by touching one of 
 three symbols that appear on the right side of the bottom screen when your grinding, in the air 
 or just rolling down the streets of Hollywood or causing trouble in your new skate park named 'American 
 Sk8land' that you help design in story mode. The other role of the touch screen is to unleash the 
 awesome power of Freak Out's. If you bail when trying to do something as suicidal as an Indy 900, 
 simply touch the three bars on the bottom screen while your skater is getting up, and depending 
 on your timing you will get points. Aside from these new features, the game plays just like any 
 console Tony Hawk game using similar controls and cameras which helps show people the true potential 
 of the Nintendo DS.
  
  While the game is enjoyably and it's has it's strong skateboarding formula that has been reused 
 many times, there was a missed opportunity with this game. As one of the first games to be released 
 to make use of the Nintendo DS Wifi capabilities, it is a shame that the multiplayer seems to be 
 very underdeveloped. Mainly because whether you play with friends locally or online, you are kept 
 to a boring two player match which is a bit of a let down seeing many other DS titles with multiplayer 
 that supports four players and some even finding a way to support eight. Although, if your the 
 kind of person who likes the traditional one on one games this shouldn't concern you at all.
  
  Besides the uninspired muitplayer this game is a very friendly pick up and play title and should 
 be easy for anyone to play even if they've never seen a Tony Hawk game before. With a fresh new 
 look, a great soundtrack (for a handheld title) and a little bit of humor thrown in the cut scenes 
 this is a great addition to anyones collection. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rifleman91
Rating: 9.6
Date: Jul 8, 2006 6:37 pm PT
Review:  even after a year of its launch i just got american sk8land and i have to say, this is the best 
 game for the ds next to mario kart. this is the best game in the tony hawk franchise, the catoon 
 style grafix fit perfectly into the mix of humor. seeing a dinosaur with a news paper and coffee 
 in the opening scene told me this game was good. the create your own board and grafiti are fun 
 and allow ur character to be his/her own. the controls are easy and the learning curve is nothing 
 amazingl diffiuclt, ull be pullin darkslides in no time. the music featires tons of artists such 
 as good charlotte and others. the enviorments are lush and full of activity, if u see it u can 
 grind it or do some type of trick on it. the real life pro skaters teach u new tricks as u work 
 ur way up the line of stardom. the story seems perfect for the game as u head from city to city 
 in california looking for money to rebuild a legendary skate park where tony alva, jay adams and 
 the rest of the z boys skated in there years of the dog town era. if u have a ds and are bored 
 with the current titles, i would definetly recomend u go out and fork over the $15 for it, this 
 game will keep ur attewntion till the holiday season... or just until downhill jam comes out. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bob5o
Rating: 9.1
Date: Jul 18, 2006 4:16 pm PT
Review:  Well I got this game for christmas last year and I have been playing it ever since. This game is 
 one of the best Nintendo DS games I have played. The story mode is very good but it is to short 
 and the graphics are amazing for DS. The classic mode was pretty cool playing old school Tony Hawk 
 in 3D on a handheld. Multiplayer is great if you have WI-FI the multiplayer it even better. Becuase 
 how does not like online? The trick are pretty much like all of the Tony Hawk game's. It is cool 
 that the touch screen lets you do specal trick and go in to focus mode. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tehjole
Rating: 9.1
Date: Jul 21, 2007 8:26 pm PT
Review:  Tony Hawks American Sk8land is a really fun game. Its story is really cool and its good to see 
 that theres dialogue and not just words on the screen that you have to read on your own i mean 
 they have that too but its cool to see some variety. Whats cool about this game is that its graphics 
 look all cartoon like... its cool to see a new look in the series rather than just the same old 
 thing. The gameplay is really good too.. the controls are good and you can pick it up really fast. 
 There are a variety of tricks and moves including the classic ones from previous Tony Hawks games 
 and some of them are done by touching the touch screen.
  
  Whats dissapointing about this game is that it doesnt take advantage of the stylus as much as you 
 would hope on a DS game. The only place where you can really use it is in designing your on board 
 or graphiti tag.
  
  The music in this game is great but there arent that many songs, so after a while the songs get 
 repetitive and kind of annoying.
  
  Another fault of this game is that some of the challenges are really difficult and you have keep 
 doing them several times in order to complete it.
  
  After you complete the game the game gives you an easter egg.. this extra lets you turn the characters 
 into crates which is pretty cool.
  
  Overall this game has a really good story, the graphics are what you would expect from a DS game 
 and it is really fun to play. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Lennex2
Rating: 9.8
Date: Jul 3, 2006 10:56 pm PT
Review:  I had my reservations about this game at first. The GBA version just sucked hard in my opinion, 
 and being a hard-core verteran of the PS & PS2 titles I was really curious if the DS version of 
 American Sk8land would fall short, or come out on top. 
  
  To my welcome surprise this game is just as good as the PS2 version of the same game! The fundamental 
 game works the same, and the levels are still pretty close. And how the developers delt with the 
 DS's short comings in 3D worked out great with the 'cartoon' style graphics. 
  
  The story is interesting, and moves pretty quickly if you have played any previous THPS games. 
 
  
  The sound is great, and the music is also of decent quality for low quality mp3 files. Awesome 
 that they were able to keep a wicked sound-track thats worthy of a THPS game. 
  
  Also, the COMPLETE lack of loading screens is awesome! Even the PS2 version hides the loading screens 
 in the background during cut sceens, or an extra long opening sequence you can't skip! But on the 
 DS. I guess thats what game cards give you!
  
  The multiplayer is completley awesome! You really have to experiance it to play it!
  
  I consider 
 this an instant classic, and definatly one of my fav DS games!!!! And for $25 CAD at EBGames, how 
 could you go wrong?!?!?! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: RedPanther95
Rating: 8.3
Date: Jun 26, 2006 5:16 pm PT
Review:  Tony Hawk's American Sk8land is the best handheld skating game. With some great music to listen 
 too and some real awesome online features who get a good story and some VERY VERY VERY awesome 
 stuff to do. As you head all over southern California and the costal areas even visiting hell on 
 an island duhhhhh.... Alcatraz. While if you have played a Tony Hawk game before you'll regonize 
 how much this game is to the some of the console versions. Here is my review of Tony Hawk's American 
 Sk8land. For Nintendo DS and Game Boy Advance.
  
  Gameplay: The gameplay of this is game is like that of the console's with the missing part of the 
 bike is about the only differnce. There are alot of modes to do. Some of those are classic, story 
 mode, free skate, multiplayer, and the Wi-Fi. The multiplayer is alot like the wi-fi about the same 
 stuff. You can even upload your designs and replays to the internet.
  There are alot of skaters to play as also. The story goes like this gather money to make your skate 
 park in California and travel along with Mr. hawk his self.
  
  Graphics: Nice are style just like that if the Wind Waker. The graphics are nice. Not much too 
 say you can't see the skater's face sometimes which sucks! 
  
  Sound: The music is good along with a few scattered voiceovers. Some of the music is just flat 
 out stupid like "I Eat Dirt".
  
  Overall this game is pretty fun!
  8.4 good
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Ram_martai
Rating: 7.7
Date: Jun 24, 2006 3:56 am PT
Review:  This is a good game to show how great the Nintendo DS is with its amazing handheld graphics, you 
 use the top screen mostly on this game but its way easier to do special trick because you just 
 touch the touch screen and it just does the trick, the basic story line is you are a rookie skater 
 and you meet up with Tony Hawk with your freind Mindy and he takes you on his road trip to gather 
 all the pro's to make his own warehouse skate park and you get to choose the parts in it.
  
  The buttons are exactly the same as the playstaton controls so theres no change there but you 
 cany get of your board wich is a let down, you get to draw your own deck with the stylus and you 
 draw your own graphiti tag also you get to record your voice for when you fall over or do a special 
 move, Its a brilliant game anyway with very good graphics for a handheld game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Creapy_team
Rating: 8.9
Date: Jun 19, 2006 6:17 am PT
Review:  Oh yeah. It's Tony Hawk. Tony Hawk, some random skeat chick, and other pro's wanna rebuild the 
 famous "American SK8Land" Skeatpark, and begin collection cash as you do missions. That's the Story 
 part. Classic's the classic **** You do missions in 2 minutes, which are harder then, yeah, Story 
 Mode.
  
  Gameplay is old and still kicking, go around and do tricks. You mash the buttons to get bigger 
 combo's and sometimes touching the touch screen for Special effects or the Bullet Time Effect (of 
 course, it must be there)
  
  Graphics are nicely cartooned. It run's pretty smooth and it looks and runs better then the N64 
 Tony Hawks. The Soundtrack is pretty perfect too, and you will be disapointed that you can NOT 
 buy the soundtrack.
  
  Multiplayer may be a blast, but I have not tried that. 2-4 Multicard action, and Wi-fi battles.
 
  
  It will not bore you quickly as it's real fun to go nuts on the areas in the game, but when you 
 have collected evreything it maybe won't be fun forever. 
  
  Totaly : Go and get it. Now. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Kenzo287
Rating: 9.1
Date: Jun 15, 2006 4:32 pm PT
Review:  Vicarious Visions brings the Tony Hawk series to the Nintendo DS in the form of Tony Hawk's American 
 Sk8land and this game really shows what made us love the Tony Hawk franchise in the first place. 
 To start off the graphics are great. Some of the best on the DS or any handheld system to date. 
 The gameplay brings back the old-school Tony Hawk style with the addition of the natas spin, which 
 is possibly the coolest grind ever invented. For those who enjoyed the GBA Tony Hawk games there 
 is a lagecy camera that uses that camera though I found it hard to control. The sound is definiately 
 some of the best. If the speaker on the wii-mote can sound anything like the music in this game 
 then I have nothing to fear about the Wii. I did have to subtract a point in the sound department 
 because the wi-fi head to head mode doesn't support sound and the few tracks that there are to 
 start with are only about 85% there. In other words not all of every song is included for memory 
 reasons. This game's story is pretty pointless but can entertain you for hours on end. By using 
 the wi-fi connection and the website www. american-sk8land. com you can view other people's customized 
 artwork and use it as your own. The experience will only get better when Tony Hawk's Downhill Jam 
 launches exclusively on Nintendo consoles later this year. Until then a 9.1. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Peter_Skerritt
Rating: 8.1
Date: May 27, 2006 4:43 pm PT
Review:  Much like with skateboarding, Tony Hawk has left his mark on video gaming. Starting with the original 
 Tony Hawk's Pro Skater for the Sony PlayStation back in 1999, gamers have seen new Tony Hawk games 
 every year since, spanning consoles, mobile phones, and handheld gaming systems. 
  
  Unlike the console-based games, many of which have seen ports or scaled-down versions for the Game 
 Boy Advance, Tony Hawk's American Sk8Land is a full-on, unique game that utilizes some source material 
 from the most recent Tony Hawk game -- Tony's Hawk's American Wasteland -- but maintains its own 
 identity, thanks to some key features. 
  
  The main thing that players will notice once they pop American Sk8Land into their DS units is that 
 the game's graphics engine is completely new. The realistic-looking skaters from games past have 
 been replaced by cel-shaded skaters, which animate smoothly and actually look pretty good. The 
 game's multiple stages, which span the state of California, also look good as buildings, cars, 
 and other objects whip by the on-screen skater as he (or she) attempts to rack up points and accomplish 
 various objectives. 
  
  The transition to cel-shading sacrifices nothing on the gameplay end of American Sk8Land; in fact, 
 with smoother animations for tricks, the game actually plays better than expected. Combine that 
 with the additional two face buttons on the DS, and you finally have a very close facsimile to 
 the "old-school" Pro Skater games from 1999 through 2001. 
  
  There are some notable changes to the traditional control scheme, however. Developer Vicarious 
 Visions has managed to implement the touch screen in a couple of different ways. Once a skater 
 maxes out his (or her) Special meter, there are up to three different signature tricks that can 
 be performed. Traditionally, players in the past had to enter a special command on the directional 
 pad and then press a face button to complete the trick; however, in American Sk8Land, players can 
 use the stylus and touch an icon that automatically attempts the trick without special entry from 
 the directional pad. The other big change is Focus, which also can be activated once the Special 
 meter is full. This slows down time and allows players to land bigger tricks and combinations without 
 error or loss of balance. Aside from these changes, though, the core gameplay is as solid as it's 
 ever been. 
  
  American Sk8Land boasts several different modes of play. The meat of single-player play is the 
 Story Mode, which follows the journey of your created skater as he (or she) traverses the state 
 of California in search of pieces with which to populate a popular abandoned warehouse-turned-skate 
 park. The gameplay is fairly open-ended, as you can stop to talk to people and accomplish the tasks 
 that they give you in return for money... which is then used to buy even more pieces for the warehouse. 
 These tasks range from tutorial-style objectives (such as grinding or maintaining a manual) to 
 complex combos and high-score challenges. Each area also has its own Pro Skater who provides the 
 ultimate challenge -- much like a boss character. 
  
  Aside from the Story Mode, solo players can indulge in the Classic Mode, which plays similarly 
 to the first three Pro Skater games. Players are presented with a series of objectives, such as 
 scoring a set amount of points in a combo or run or collecting the letters S-K-A-T-E. Each run 
 is timed, so players must strategize which objectives that they wish to accomplish in each run. 
 Once enough objectives are achieved in a stage, the next stage will open. 
  
  If you're looking to test your skills against an opponent, players can wirelessly play against 
 others... or they can use the Nintendo DS' Wi-Fi capability to compete with players worldwide. 
 Unfortunately, for any of the multiplayer modes, each player must have a copy of the game... so 
 single-card multiplayer is not possible. There are five different modes of play once you get connected, 
 ranging from scoring runs to combo contests. The Wi-Fi connection is stable and certainly allows 
 for a host of varying opponents and skill levels, which can keep even the best players on their 
 toes. 
  
  One specific area of achievement that has not yet been mentioned is American Sk8Land's sound. Thirteen 
 songs from Tony Hawk's American Wasteland have been compressed to fit on the tiny DS game card, 
 and the sound quality is pretty impressive. There's also a fair amount of speech compressed onto 
 the card, as well as the trademark crisp sound effects, such as rail grinding and trucks hitting 
 the pavement. While the transition to cel-shading brings the Tony Hawk universe to another level, 
 the quality and sheer amount of sound that comes out of the DS speakers is remarkable. 
  
  Despite the long list of positives, American Sk8Land certainly is not perfect. While Vicarious 
 Visions did a good job implementing the touch screen into the core gameplay engine, it never feels 
 truly intuitive. While players can map special tricks to directional pad commands, it's a bit of 
 a process to do so. Also, the objectives in the Story Mode are extremely repetitive and mostly 
 uninspired -- even in later stages of play. Many players will ask themselves, "Am I doing this again?" 
 Lastly, although the cel-shading looks good, long-time fans of the Pro Skater games may balk at 
 the new, cartoon-like visuals... especially when combined with the game's occasionally flat humor. 
 
  
  Overall, however, the verdict on Tony Hawk's American Sk8Land is overwhelmingly positive. Vicarious 
 Visions took a few chances and demonstrated a bit of wizardry with the DS hardware here, and it 
 generally pays off. This is as close as you can get to playing a very convincing Tony Hawk game 
 on the go. As long as you have an open mind about the visuals and don't mind trying to adjust to 
 using the stylus for certain functions, there's a lot to like about this game. It's not quite radical... 
 but it's definitely non-heinous. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SnowBoard_Kid
Rating: 7
Date: May 25, 2006 5:33 pm PT
Review:  The graphics in this game are pretty good for a DS game. But it's not exactly stellar. They basically 
 cheaped out and went with cel-shaded graphics since they're easier to work with. The environments 
 look nice and are cool to skate around in, but there isn't that much detail since it's all basic 
 cel-shading. The character models look alright though, but they can get a little jerky and screwy 
 when you do some of the moves in mid-air. Like sometimes you tail-grabs give your character a siezure 
 for no reason. Don't take it the wrong way though, they're still good graphics; just not as good 
 as they could be.
  
  The sound is alright too. The soundtrack is a little warped though. There's like 3 good songs on 
 the entire less than 10 soundtrack, which means you'll be pausing to switch through all the krappy 
 music a little too often. The sound effects are basic Tony sounds. Grinds and ollies... the standard. 
 But one more thing... I OFFICIALLY HATE THE DOUBLE-TAP TRICK SOUND EFFECT!!! STUPID CLICK DRIVES 
 ME INSANE!! Chacha... GRR!
  
  This game was a little disappointing, actually. It's pretty much a basic Tony Hawk game with a 
 fresh coat of paint. All the goals are a little too similar and repetitive, which isn't good; considering 
 there's basically "find stuff", or "grind this rail". If anything, this game is the most fun either 
 challenging people online, or just free-skating the levels when you're on the bus or something. 
 The story mode isn't much to write home about, but it's there, so you have to give it cred for 
 that.
  
  Like I said, this game is best served for a quick free-skate session every now and then. Don't 
 expect to be lunged into this game for months. It get's a little boring after a while, and you 
 should only really get it if you're a serious Tony Hawk fan. Just borrow it from someone for a 
 week or two, and you'll get your fill. It has the create-a-skater and decks, but they left out 
 the custom tricks, parks, and goals. What the hell man? You know what else they left out? YOU CAN'T 
 GET OFF YOUR BOARD! Oh yeah, and the triple-tap flip moves are gone too. Oops.
  
  A little more effort would have made this game better, but whatever's here deserves a "meh". Good 
 graphics and free-skate gameplay, but they fell short on this one. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rei_gs69
Rating: 9
Date: May 21, 2006 8:37 pm PT
Review:  with this new generation of handhelds, it's interesting to see how deelopers are getting used to 
 bringing their huge console creations into the palm of gamer's hands. the graphics are awesome. 
 tony gets cel-shaded, so there's not too much detail, but suits the ds well. big ups to the gameplay. 
 it's been honed beautifully for the ds and the cel-shaded look really works. lifespan is alright. 
 you could lose hours just mucking around with the create-a modes. its packed with over 30 minutes 
 of punchy soundtracks and voiceovers. commendable sounds. all the charm of the early tony hawk 
 games combined with super ds specific touches. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ghstblck343
Rating: 8.8
Date: May 12, 2006 11:56 am PT
Review:  I don't play my ds that often, only when i have nothing better to do but games like this one bring 
 me into the ds and unlimited game-play. I like the new cell-shade look for the Tony Hawk American 
 Sk8land and i hope they keep it. Just as well the idea of being able to draw all over your deck 
 lets you experience the game as if you were there! Another great thing about the game is the same 
 feel all Tony Hawk games have had in the past. The game doesn't glitch and is rarely boring. The 
 Story-Line is pretty funny as well and basically this game will make a name for itself as did all 
 other Tony Hawk games before it. This is a must buy and i give it a 8.8! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sofakingdom92
Rating: 8.8
Date: May 7, 2006 11:35 am PT
Review:  before i got a ds (when i ordered it) i already baught all of the games i need. mario kart, ace 
 attorney, castlevania, metroid prime hunters, and animal crossing. i had enough money for one more 
 game. i wanted nintendogs but it can't go online so i bought this one. i thought i wasted my money 
 but i didn't. it is quite cool. the story is very well thought and the multiplayer experience is 
 unbelievable. there are many modes online and the pro boards are hard to beat. i love it. i try 
 everyday to get 1st place. look for me! my name is ds master. i am around 123rd place or around 
 that number. buy this game! i recommend it for the ds. if you don't have a copy, get one now! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DZAPPER
Rating: 8.5
Date: May 6, 2006 2:01 pm PT
Review:  This game is excellent. I've never been a big skateboarding fan so this game is new territory for 
 me. But if all skating games are like this then they rock. Though the game is a little short (beat 
 it in 2 weeks) they update it every two weeks online, so you get new goals to skate at each of 
 the games 9 areas. The head to head online play is good but their is no stat tracking so you don't 
 really know how good you are.
  But beside the online play it offers a good classic mode, story mode, and some customisable decks, 
 boards, and graffiti art. This games graphics are great. The screenshots you see don't do it justice, 
 this game is great looking when in motion. So overall this game is very well rounded, but the short 
 story, limited character custimization, and lack of online stat tracking is inexcusable. But it 
 is much better than Wasteland. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ozland
Rating: 9.3
Date: Apr 25, 2006 5:03 am PT
Review:  This game is so addictive, i dont think iv played a more addictive game on the DS.
  The graphics are great, the cartoonish look they added to the game really looks good, hope we will 
 see more of it on other DS games, the characters animations are great, the environment is very 
 detailed.
  The gameplay is great, you have the story mode, arcade mode which is great for pick and play mode, 
 different tasks, main missions, sub missions, build your own skateland. This game will last for 
 hours.
  The sound in the game is great, the sound tracks are great, and the audio effects are great as 
 well, you can even add some of your own with the mic. and of course you have online!
  
  There are many many MANY other things in this game, and i want go through them, you can see GS 
 review for that, ill just say that it is a must have game for the DS, very addictive, worth the 
 money and will last you for long hours. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dhufford
Rating: 6
Date: Apr 24, 2006 12:28 pm PT
Review:  Well the first thing I wanted to see in this title was fluidness in the movement. Anyone who is 
 familiar with the Tony Hawk series knows that the key element to the game is the game play itself. 
 Of course on the big boy consoles this is not an issue and it controls like a dream. However, in 
 the GBA releases and other handhelds the movement was very jerky. It was hard for the tiny GPU's 
 to keep up. Well I am happy to report that this game is as fluid as the big boy versions. It controls 
 better then I would have ever expected in a portable. Now, on to the game. 
  
  To start, it is cell-shaded. This is not a bad thing. I think it could have come off as flaky had 
 it been done with polygon graphics. This works really well. This game gives you a ton of options. 
 There is a story mode. This is the most flawed mode in the game. It involves skating from point 
 to point and talking to strangers. The strangers go over tricks and button combinations with you, 
 and then you pass the challenge by successfully demonstrating the trick. That's as in depth as 
 it gets. That's it. This could have renamed this mode "tutorial". What a joke.
  
  It's actually the other modes you will enjoy. The classic mode is my favorite. This takes the same 
 process as Tony Hawk 1-4. You are unleashed on a board and you must accomplish pre-set goals to 
 advance to the next level. This is skating the way it was meant to be. You are completely free 
 to use all the tricks in your arsenal, and you can use them when you want to accomplish the goals 
 you choose. Freedom rocks baby!
  
  Another interesting mode is the freestyle mode. In this mode you just choose a level and skate. 
 There are no goals, and no time limits. This mode is best for when you are out in public and you 
 have 5-10 minutes to kill. You can just pick it up and go. It's the perfect portable feature. 
 
  
  This title is Wi-Fi enabled, which is pretty self explanatory. You connect to the net and compete 
 with others. Nice touch. What really drives me insane about this title is a new feature called 
 freak out. If you wreck, you can start insanely dragging your stylus across the screen and it retains 
 some of the points you would have lost. This in my opinion is a joke. In every other version of 
 this series, if you wreck you wreck. You shouldn't get points for failing. What kind of politically 
 correct nonsense is this?
  
  Overall, this game is decent. It's not something you need to pick up to have a life changing experience, 
 but it will make quick work of a three hour plane trip. The cell shading and game play is great, 
 but the touchpad options are forced. I would actually improve this game by taking out the touchpad 
 options. If youre a die-hard Tony Hawk fan, then stick to the consoles.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: patd23
Rating: 8.9
Date: Apr 20, 2006 7:49 pm PT
Review:  to sum it up, this game is one of the best handheld skating games out there, and there are plenty 
 of extra features to play around with. you can play and train to be the best, create your own emblem, 
 and compete with complete strangers to win... something... there's also a website you can go to 
 to share emblems, compare high scores, and more!
  
  THE GAMEPLAY: almost everything about this game has been taken from past games in the series, but 
 that's not a bad thing. because of the recently aquired x and y buttons, the layout's pretty much 
 the same; and you're still trying to become the best skater ever. in tony hawk's american sk8land, 
 your main goal is to resurrect an old skate park called "the american sk8land" by collecting plently 
 of money to buy ramps, rails, etc. i believe this is the first (or one of the first) handheld tony 
 hawk game where you can get off your board.
  
  THE GRAPHICS: the characters look a bit polygonal, but that's not anything really bad. everything 
 else looks really great, dispite the occasional glitches. remeber, the nintendo ds has the same 
 graphics engine as the nintendo 64.
  
  THE SOUND: i thought the soundtrack was really great, but you might not think so, if you don't 
 like green day, dropkick murphys, and other great bands, this isn't for you. the effects are so-so, 
 but i don't really want them there anyway...
  
  THE GOODER-NESS: this is one of the few games with wi-fi playability, and it's a lot of fun playing 
 against actual people now and then. complain if you will, but i'm glad this game didn't use the 
 stylus much.
  
  this review has been written by patd23 from http://gamespot. com and no part of it has been copied 
 and such. if you don't copy any part of this and stuff like that, then we're cool.
  
  man, that review was long!
  ~the patdster 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MrMC7992
Rating: 8.7
Date: Apr 19, 2006 6:40 pm PT
Review:  Wow this game is just great. I've always wanted a good tony hawk game for a handheld and i finally 
 got one.
  
  this game is highly addictive if you like the tony hawk franchise. all the add-ons to the game 
 like creating graffiti gives this game infinite replay value.
  
  the story mode is good, a little easy sometimes but there are always some insanely tough missions.
 
  the cut scenes are awesome and have great voice acting
  
  the classic mode is nice, a lot harder than story. for you who don't know, you pull off missions 
 in a 2 minute time limit.
  
  of course there is free skate which is nice when you wanna kill some minutes.
  
  WIFI is a 
 great add-on to the game also, but even if you don't have a wifi connection this game is definitely 
 worth playing with out it. 
  
  this game is great, the new camera, a crap load of tricks (even some new ones) , all the add-ons, 
 and wifi are great. the only thing i could have wished for was a better create-a-park. even though 
 the create-a-park is farely simple, all the awesome maps make up for it. this game is great, go 
 buy it 
::::::

::::::
UserName: T_Magdi
Rating: 9.3
Date: Apr 19, 2006 7:41 am PT
Review:  Ignore my review of Tony Hawk American Wasteland on the PS2. I find it quite boring than I previously 
 said; Sk8land rules. On the DS anyway. It's the best Nintendo DS game ever. Up to designing boards 
 to adding voices, the whole thing is brilliant. The graphics are good and cel-shaded wonderfully, 
 and the game manages to capture almost everything from the levels in the console versions. When 
 you bail, the 'Freak Out' is made more freakier by touching bars - the longer the bar is, the more 
 bar will be added to the freak out meter. Now there is crazier music when you get a Freak Out.
 
  
  The bad news is, the customization is gone it's improved for the boards, but you can't make levels 
 (except for using the 'warehouse' where there are slots, and you can only choose thre options by 
 your money) . Tthe game is also short if you own the console versions. The story is improved, and 
 so are the missions. The story is that you are trying to restore a skate park called 'American 
 Sk8land', one of the first skate parks ever; that's been all retro-ed, dumped, and unpopular. You 
 now need to make it all sick with style. How? Get cash from people and punks that need help or 
 wanna see your moves. They will give you $250 - and if you do this to a pro, you get $1000. Get 
 enough cash for a skatepark piece.
  
  The missions, like I said, are improved: you do stuff were you have to get a credit card blown 
 by the wind ontop of a roof down (someone dropped it by accident and the wind carried it away) 
 and there is one where you have to give revenge for ruining someone's photos by ruining there's. 
 The music is still sweet and identical to the console versions (but the list of songs aren't) . 
 Overall, this game simply rocks. Everybody who has a DS should get this game, NOW!
  It's Better than: Tony Hawk's American Wasteland
  It's Worse than: Tony Hawk Pro Skater 3
  
 Gameplay:
  + Improved missions and storyline.
  - All the customization is gone from the console versions.
  Graphics:
  + Beautifully cel-shaded.
 
  - Where are the character's ingame eyes?
  Sound:
  + You are able to record your own voices when you bail or get a gap/do a special trick.
  - Now 
 there is a quarter and a mini-quarter of the console's songs.
  
  Overall, you should get Hawk Sk8land: it rocks! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: liljakey_06
Rating: 9.3
Date: Apr 12, 2006 2:22 pm PT
Review:  this game is good. it has cell shaded graphics which look good on the ds and the controls are easy 
 to get used too. you can do tricks by touching the special buttons on your touch screen, plus too 
 freak out you use the touch screen too so his game uses the touch screen quite alot. yaay. this 
 game lets you design your own skate park too and you pick the parts with the touch screen too. 
 okay now i think you get it the game uses the touch screen alot. this game has lots of extras to 
 unlock too like hoverboards perfect rail. overall this game is a very good game for the ds.
  final verdict: if you like the tony hawk games on your consoles then youll love this game. and 
 a must buy for you skaters. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ghangiskhan1
Rating: 7.6
Date: Feb 5, 2007 5:31 pm PT
Review:  Every year Tony Hawk games have been coming out, and every year they just get a little bit worse 
 ever since Tony Hawk's Underground. The not-as-well-known handheld versions are always released, 
 while none where exceptionally great since THPS2 on Gameboy Advance, until American Sk8land came 
 out. The storyline is about the same, except you are buying pieces to rebuild a classic skatepark 
 called American Sk8land. You are still a guy from the midwest who comes to Los Angeles to skate 
 though.
  
  When you first turn on the game, you'll create your profile, then be awarded with your difficulty 
 selection. There is rookie and pro, and I suggest that you play on the pro difficulty because rookie 
 is very easy. Very, very easy. The game, on either difficulty is beatable in a day but there is 
 also classic mode, online play and plenty of unlockables.
  
  The best thing about Sk8land, besides that it is better than Wasteland, is that it plays more like 
 console versions than the GBA versions. GBA had an isometric view which was confusing to control 
 but Sk8land has similar controls to the console versions, and the camera angle is about the same. 
 It also has the same variety of tricks.
  
  Basically in story mode, you'll be getting high scores, collecting S-K-A-T-E and C-O-M-B-O, and 
 doing random objectives for random bystanders. You also do pro goals where you get paid more money 
 for. You use the money to build up your park.
  
  Graphics are great for Nintendo DS, honestly they are the best I have seen in any sports game avaiable 
 on the DS. While they may not surpass THUG 2: Remix on PSP, they sure define Nintendo DS graphics. 
 The framerate is smooth, and the levels are very similar in design to the console versions. It 
 may not have every level from the console one, but it does have an updated Warehouse and the Alcatraz 
 level from Tony Hawk's Pro Skater 4. It looks exactly the same, except the console versions, of 
 course look better.
  
  The music, is impressive. The game is voice acted. The real skaters do their own voices, like Tony 
 Hawk does Tony Hawk's voice in the game. Since this is a kid-appropriate version of THAW, you will 
 not find drug references or inappriopriate language. What impressed me is how well the music sounds. 
 While it may not be the best, and I hate Green Day's music, it is very impressive. Wi-fi matches 
 are limited with only 2 players but they are pretty competitive and fun/
  
  I got this game for $19.99 new, and even though I beat in a day, did not want to put it down for 
 it's very good replayability and good wi-fi matches. A worthy buy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: firejeff
Rating: 6.3
Date: Apr 8, 2006 1:08 pm PT
Review:  It was undeniable that when the handhelds change and the new games start pouring in. But a strange 
 thing is that some really bad ones get in at launch. Luckily for us that trend had nothing to do 
 with Sk8land but still is it worth it? Read the review!
  
  Gameplay: The gameplay is a lot of fun. Classic Tony Hawk engine makes for a lot of fun. Sadly 
 there are only 6 levels and no level building option. The story mode is atrocious and not worth 
 anyone's time. It involves you teaming up with Tony Hawk and Mindy (from american wasteland) and 
 rebuilding the famous Warehouse level from Tony Hawk's Pro Skater 1. Not much fun. Thankfully to 
 the game's credit the online mode is great. There are not that many people online so there is a 
 1 minute wait or so to find a partner. Some of them are inhuman and thankfully you can watch their 
 replays and be amazed. Overall gameplay gets a 7 due to the great online play and the huge bag 
 of tricks you can pull.
  
  Graphics: The graphics are very nice 3d. They have a cel shaded look which is nice. The cutscenes 
 however are horrible and you may as well skip them considering the story is also terrible.
  
  Sound: I hope you like to hear the same one song over and over again and hear the same stupid 
 bail sounds repeatedly. The only reason sound is getting a 5 is because you can input your own 
 bail sounds.
  
  Value: Defenitely worth a rental no matter what just to check out the online play. If you are a 
 Hawk fanatic you will probably buy this but are probably too busy maxing out everyone on Tony Hawk 
 2X so casual gamers should give it a shot. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sgt-Koopa
Rating: 9.2
Date: Apr 4, 2006 2:59 am PT
Review:  When i first bought this game, i was weary of it. I was puzzled at how you could play online with 
 Tony Hawks. I had many expectations of the game, but they were good expectations. 
  
  There are alot of modes you can play in on THAS, including the usual 'Story' 'Classic mode' 'Freeskate', 
 but new ones obviously including the 'online' play.
  
  The story line on THAS is good, but at times can be a bit cheesy. You basically meet Tony Hawk 
 and go all around America getting money for a skatepark which is endanger of closing. You have 
 to complete simple challenges along the way which earn you money, so you can buy new ramps, grind 
 boxes etc.
  The story is good, but can be very short. I completed it in about an hour, which isnt very long, 
 but the online play really makes up for it.
  You go through different towns and locations, each with very colourful maps and interesting details. 
 The maps are very fun to ride, they each have their own characteristics, and are very detailed. 
 
  
  The graphics are very good for the DS. Instead of trying to make them realistic and failing, they 
 made the graphics colourful, but succeded in making them look good.
  
  The music is also good. A good selection of modern punk rock, which really gets you in the skateboarding 
 feel. I dont really know any of the bands, but i did pick out Green Day - Holiday.
  Gameplay is excelent. Doing tricks is very easy, but doing good tricks takes a bit of effort. You 
 can do the usual stuff, grinds, lip tricks, and air tricks. The controls are very easy to use. 
 If you have played the Playstation Tony Hawks, the controls are relativly the same, but with the 
 added touch screen.
  The touch screen isnt used alot in the game, which i feel is very good. All the touch screen used 
 for is to 'Freak Out' and to design your deck. Freak Out is where if you fall off your skateboard 
 while doing a good trick, you have to touch three bars. The bars are moving up and down, and the 
 aim is to get them all at the top.
  The ability to design your own deck is very good. There is a good range of colours and it is very 
 easy to design a slick looking deck.
  
  I'll move onto the online play. 
  The ablility to play online is the best factor of the game. Once connected to NWC, you are given 
 a login name and password which you log onto the THAS website.
  You can then either play with your friends by adding them to your frineds list, or you can play 
 a random person. When your are playing with a person, it starts in FreeSkate mode, and you can 
 freeskate and get points, or you can go into challenge mode. Press start and select a challenge. 
 Theres alot of modes to chose from, but they all center around getting more points than your opponent.
 
  The gamplay in online mode is no different, its not slower or changed, which is very very good. 
 You also have the ability to record a freak out sound. The sound is played evertime you freakout, 
 and some people often abuse this, and record silly and abusive messages, which can often be very 
 funny.
  
  To sum up, if you own a DS, this game is a must. If you have a DS and a WiFi connection, you are 
 not complete without this game, lol.
  
  Very good game, very good graphics, worth very last penny.
  
  ... Koopa...
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: jeddimaster
Rating: 9.2
Date: Mar 30, 2006 12:55 pm PT
Review:  I have been a fan of Tony Hawk games from the very beginning. I remember hanging out at my friend's 
 birthday party and playing the game for the first time on his PS1. There were a lot of girls at 
 the party, but even in the hormone-raging days of my mid-teens, not even hot girls could distract 
 me from what I could call a work of gaming art.
  
  The series has come a long way since Tony Hawk's Pro Skater, and for the better. With this DS entry, 
 some great new features were introduced. The classic "hold the button and release to ollie, then 
 do a trick with one of the other buttons and an arrow key" formula is very simple at first, but 
 the possibilities and number of variations on this basic formula are endless. That is, after all, 
 the magic key to the Tony Hawk appeal, and this portable version captures it perfectly.
  
  Needless to say, from what you've just read, I love Tony Hawk games, and this is a Tony Hawk game. 
 Gameplay is what really shines with TH, and I can't help but to give it a 10/10. If you've ever 
 played a Tony Hawk game and enjoyed it, the gameplay here will not disappoint.
  
  There are some minor flaws in playing, however. Mainly with the controls. The directional D-Pad 
 on the DS is not quite as suited as the PlayStation controller for TH, making tricks like manuals 
 and diagonal grabs a bit more difficult to pull off. Having said this, spend a few hours with the 
 game and you will master the D-Pad, and it should come quite naturally after that.
  
  The graphics are cartoony, grainy, and very annoying. I, however, have never cared too much for 
 graphics, and am perfectly happy with what this game has. Corners look undefined, characters (especially 
 faces) lack detail, and some key items don't show up until you get near them, making items such 
 as the "Secret Tape" a lot harder to find. While the graphics are weak, the frame-rate is top-notch. 
 And it won't take long to get used to the graphics, and you won't even notice the pixelated look. 
 Within the bounds of this system's abilities, Sk8land has done an all-around good job with graphics.
 
  
  Another plus about the graphics is that they didn't settle for the top-down/side view as in the 
 other portable versions of the game. This is just like console versions, with true TH behind-the-skater 
 view. I never could stand the GameBoy versions of TH, so props to the developers for that.
  
  The sound is great. Effects are clean, and the soundtrack is good. Even the voice acting is 
 top-notch. Unfortunately, however, the soundtrack is pretty short, and I have heard some glitches 
 in the sound, mainly with being cut off too early.
  
  As far as value goes, I'm a bit biased. I've been playing Tony Hawk for 7 years and the concept 
 still isn't old to me. The story mode is short and sweet, and pretty easy for the veteran player. 
 But I enjoyed it nonetheless. Classic mode is just like old times, where you take a 2-minute run 
 and try to achieve certain goals. Most of the meat of the game is in this mode, and will keep you 
 challenged for some time. As far as online play, it's a bit weak, considering only two can play 
 at a time. It is still entertaining, though, and adds a lot of value to the game. There is plenty 
 of stuff to keep you entertained for hours on end, but it never feels overwhelming.
  
  I gotta tilt this one to the max. I mean come on, it's Tony Hawk! Only portable! And that's just 
 an awesome combination.
  
  It's got its dings, and could be a bit better in some ways, but for what the developers had to 
 work with, they truly came out with an awesome game. If you're a fan of the TH series and own a 
 DS, get to the store and buy this game NOW. If you haven't played much Tony Hawk, I still strongly 
 recommend you pick this up, because you've been missing out! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: indy00
Rating: 9.1
Date: Mar 18, 2006 7:14 am PT
Review:  The Tony Hawk series has come along way from its humble beginnings on the PSOne and its definately 
 seen its fair share of changes. The most notable being the shift of the emphasis from vert moves 
 to more street and tech oriented moves. The most recent Console incarnation of the series didn't 
 really go over so well as it was just too easy and just more of the same with little or no innovation. 
 The DS version on the other hand is completely different and bears similarities aswell.
  
  Gameplay wise, if you are an experienced Tony Hawk player, you'll easily rip through the games 
 story mode. A neat addition that the Tony Hawk games have been adding in for some time now is the 
 Classic mode which brings back the old two minute time limit. That mode also makes an appearance 
 on the DS version and really offers the most challenge but, how much challenge it adds is questionable 
 especially when its very easy to rack up a one million point combo but who said thats a bad thing? 
 The main thing that DS version has going for it Gameplay wise is that its controls work very well 
 and the whole game handles and feels just as it would on a console version which is definately 
 impressive.
  
  However, gameplay aside, the star of the show is definately the unique stylistic choices that have 
 been made with this game. The story itself is different from the console version and is definately 
 aimed at a younger audience. Does this mean that older audiences can't enjoy it? Absolutely not. 
 The game maintains a cool 'cheesy' sense of humour that should make you chuckle from time to time. 
 To top it off the whole game has a nice comic feel to it with cel shaded environments and character 
 models. This not only creates a unique look for the game but it works to differentiate it from 
 previous Tony Hawks and also gives a crisp presentation that is sure to impress. Soundtrack wise, 
 you can expect the usual mix of Rock, Hip-hop and some breakbeat tracks aswell. In all, its a relatively 
 large soundtrack considering the capacity of the DS.
  
  The style is cool and its topped off with some stellar animations and sound effects. The sound 
 effects have been taken from the previous games and adds an authentic feel to it. When you hear 
 that signiture grind rail sound, you know you're playing a Tony Hawk game. All the moves look great 
 especially when you slow it down with focus mode which has been in there since Underground 2 but 
 is still a cool feature that is worth writing about. Ever since Max Payne, 'Bullet Time' has always 
 looked good in games and American Skateland is no exception. Another cool thing about the game 
 is that you can still do all of the moves that you've come to know and love even the flatland tricks. 
 The only downside is that you can't get off of your board like you were able to do in Underground 
 and there onwards but the levels are so well designed that you'll barely notice this and it never 
 becomes a problem.
  
  Which raises another point, the level designs of Tony Hawk are superb. Some may argue that they 
 are a little too tech biased but with the attention to detail thats gone into making the grinds 
 and manuals look cool you'll definately be satisfied with the calibur of tricks that you will perform. 
 Each level is jam packed with lines and and objects that you can link it to massive combos. As 
 previously mentioned, its very easy to be able to rack a one million point combo, and thats when 
 you don't care to continue the combo. Invariably you always have some route to continue your combo 
 and provided you can keep your balance you can go on for ages.
  
  American Skateland also makes great use of the DS's touch screen. For example your freakouts are 
 controlled by a little mini-game that pops up on the touch screen and you can activate and de-activate 
 focus mode from the touch screen aswell. However, the best implementation of the touch screen are 
 the 'touch' specials. In an effort to simplify and make special combos easier a set of 3 specials 
 are located on the right side of the touch screen. These tricks change pending on the situation 
 and allow you to really rack up the specials in a way that was never possible, well almost never 
 possible, on the console iterations. There are alot of other cool touch screen features aswell 
 as other features that take advantage of the DS hardware but mentioning them all would take too 
 much time.
  
  However, there are some flaws with American Skateland. The biggest and most agonizing problem is 
 the difficulty. Experienced Tony Hawk players will simply find the game too easy and while it is 
 still fun to skate around and test yourself to see how long you can grind and how big of a combo 
 you can get it ultimately would have been more satisfying to have more goals, or atleast harder 
 goals to do. Many of the final challenges are so laughably easy that it is really dissappointing 
 to see an otherwise great game get ruined by a lack of creativity in goal design. The other flaw 
 is a minor one is that there isn't as much customization as the console games. It would have been 
 nice to have a few more hairstyles and face models to play around with but your still left with 
 a pretty solid create-a-skater.
  
  In all, Tony Hawk American Skateland is definately alot of fun. Even if you manage to rip through 
 the single player aspects of the game there is still a wireless multiplayer mode that you can play 
 and free skating around the game still remains as fun as it ever was. American Skateland is a culmination 
 of all the good things about the Tony Hawk series, something that later titles seem to have lost. 
 It captures the magic that made the older games so much fun. For that reason its really easy to 
 reccomend American Skateland to any Tony Hawk fan aswell as those that would like to have a handheld 
 version of Tony Hawk. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jimmythegent
Rating: 8.8
Date: Mar 12, 2006 8:57 pm PT
Review:  A very solid game is found here in "T. H. A. S". And along with that comes the most important element 
 of a game: The Fun Factor. We have outstanding controls, a fun game, and a decent soundtrack that 
 surprisingly enough hosts a live soundtrack. In other words, "T. H. A. S" has real songs instead of 
 cheap "beep, boop" NES sound effects. You can probably run through this game in a dozen sit downs 
 or so which is good, and you'll come across the normal Tony Hawk hard areas of the game that require 
 you to complete a fairly difficult trick. All in all "T. H. A. S" offers a great game with some nice 
 surprises thrown in there. Including the new "WIFI" service which is cool. The cell shaded graphics 
 system is also a nice touch to the game, and the developers do a nice job with the trick system. 
 Though like many DS games it lacks the use of an inovative gaming experience and that my friends 
 was what I thought the DS was here for. I love this game, but it can get a little repetitive after 
 you beat the game, and theres not a lot of replay value. The ability to skate through the areas 
 of the game without a huge load time is nice and the custom character creation is very good. I 
 recommend picking this title up. What more can I say, the game is "Just plain fun". 
::::::

::::::
UserName: green_day85
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 11, 2006 4:13 pm PT
Review:  I have played this game A LOT. It's my official skating game. American Wasteland wasn't good enough 
 for me. I love the toon look in the game. It's the coolest way I can think of to revolutionize 
 the Hawk games. I have my reason for giving it a perfect score as well. I love the punk/rock music, 
 and don't mind rap. That makes it all worth it. So far I've loved the tracks in all the Tony Hawk 
 games. If you need a good intro to the Tony Hawk series, or you love the games, this is simply 
 outstanding and you should play it! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nick7890
Rating: 9.4
Date: Mar 11, 2006 12:16 pm PT
Review:  Its classic Tony Hawk Pro Skater style doesnt take away from the games freshly modern free-roaming 
 skating action filled to the brim with good challenges. The seven areas offer plenty of goals and 
 youll upgrade your created skaters skills. If that wasnt enough the game also tosses in the 
 old-school Classic mode. The cel-shaded look actually works well for this game and its one of the 
 sharpest-looking Nintendo DS games around. The environments are easy on the eyes and filled to 
 the brim with detail that youll recognize the landmarks right away. Even the characters look great 
 while pulling off neat air tricks and grinds. Surprisingly enough the game has a nice collection 
 of licensed tunes from the likes of Green Day as well as Oingo Boingo. There are some voice clips 
 from Tony Hawk and a number of other skaters so the game feels a bit like the console games. The 
 rest of the game is composed of some really decent sound effects. A tad easy at times, American 
 Sk8land isnt incredibly hard but dont worry because there are challenges that will give your 
 fingers a good workout. The timed Classic mode goals offer objectives that will have you attempting 
 to make big points to unlock the next area. The Los Angeles area is one massive playground and 
 much like Tony Hawks American Wasteland for all the major consoles it makes for an interesting 
 local with a lot to see and do. You can create your character and even go as far as design their 
 deck or graffiti tag. Theres even a Skate Shop to purchase better boards and the like. Theres 
 even fun multiplayer modes and you can play online. Yes you can play the game wirelessly with a 
 buddy but the main attraction here is the fact that you can play the game online through a Wi-Fi 
 connection setup and a good wireless router and an active Broadband account. Setup can be a bit 
 complex but following the direction on the manual and with a little guidance from the game itself, 
 youll be thrashing against other gamers in no time. You can even upload your replays to the Internet 
 for bragging rights. One of the most impressive handheld versions of the Tony Hawk series to come 
 to the portable gaming format, Tony Hawks American Sk8land is a true thrasher classic. It possesses 
 all the things we enjoy about the console games and the best feature yet is that you can take it 
 with you wherever you go. Whatever you do, dont miss this game.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: abdirauf
Rating: 9.4
Date: Mar 8, 2006 10:39 am PT
Review:  This game is absolutely fantastic. The graphics are alright. The gameplay is excellent. Infact 
 it's one of the best. The cutscenes are short but still entertaining. Story mode is sick! Classic 
 mode is ok too, However the only thing that is bad about the game is that you do not unlock videos 
 when you complete story mode. Never the less this game still lives up to its standard. Anyone seeking 
 a skateboarding challenge should definitely get this game. Furthermore this game also has tracks 
 from the likes of Green Day. Go on what are you waiting for , go get the game already!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SirusCoven
Rating: 7.5
Date: Mar 7, 2006 9:17 pm PT
Review:  Ive always enjoyed the Tony Hawk series of games due to its easy pick up and play mechanics and 
 addictive challenges present in all its iterations. When the series made the step into a more 
 free-to-go-anywhere GTA style approach I felt my interest in the series starting to wan a little 
 bit. With American Sk8teland its pretty much faded away. Thats not to say this isnt a good game 
 but it definitely shows that the tried and true formula for the series just doesnt seem to have 
 the same appeal anymore.
  
  On the surface Sk8teland is quite an achievement. The developers chose to use a cell-shaded visual 
 approach that manages to capture the appearance of the Tony Hawk series but with a fresh coat of 
 paint. Other than a few blocky textures the level of detail and rich vibrant colors help craft 
 a fully realized skatable world that serves as the levels of Sk8teland. Though no two areas really 
 look dissimilar they all have enough personality to carry an individual feel. The frame rate seems 
 to be locked in smooth no matter what kind of action is taking place on screen and this seems to 
 be achieved in the bigger levels by limiting skatable terrain or linking previous levels together. 
 Overall theres not a whole lot to complain about considering they managed to replicate the Tony 
 Hawk atmosphere in such a little system.
  
  The same can be said about the audio department which includes actual licensed music, voice acting 
 and all the classic Hawk sounds you know and love. While the music is really only shortened clips 
 that interweave with another it definitely helps make this seem like a REAL Hawk game and not just 
 a slimmed down portable. After a while the songs do get repetitive but you can always vouch to 
 reconfigure which tracks play and which dont. One of the coolest features takes advantage of the 
 DSs built in mic by allowing the user to record their own player sounds so when your player does 
 a special or bails its your own voice emitting from the speakers. A nice touch that works both 
 realism and personalization into this version of the game.
  
  Speaking of personalization, you start off the game by creating your own character and following 
 him along his adventures to try and raise enough money to fix up a warehouse by completing the 
 games objectives for money. The create-a-skater feature is pretty limited allowing you the variety 
 of sex and a few cosmetic choices like skin color and a minimal wardrobe. Since you cant unlock 
 new clothes throughout the main game its a bit disappointing that your character only has a small 
 selection of apparel to chose from.
  
  Even the gameplay manages to replicate an authentic feel of its console brothers by using a similar 
 control scheme and including all the best elements of the trick system along with it. If youve 
 ever played a Hawk game before youll pick up and play this one instantly and the only changes 
 that are made are actually improvements. For example, specials are now triggered by simply touching 
 a corresponding button on the touch screen when your special meter is full, very convenient and 
 typically impossible to achieve with a console controller.
  
  Surprisingly, my biggest gripe with the game isnt the craftsmanship that went into making this 
 a faithful part of the series but the overall lack of a challenge found throughout the story mode. 
 Objectives are started by skating around and talking to NPCs who then give you extremely basic 
 tasks to complete and usually you start off right where you need to go or have it pin pointed on 
 the map for you. This would seem to be a good thing but it really takes a lot of the fun out of 
 trying to complete these objectives, especially since their so dumbed down that youll often times 
 successfully complete them on the first try. Oddly enough, every so often a challenge proves to 
 be abnormally difficult which is frustrating as the game fluctuates back and forth. This starts 
 to try the users patience half way into the game and playing becomes less enjoyable from then on 
 out.
  
  As for the multiplayer, many claim this game makes best use of the DSs WiFi capabilities but if 
 thats true then the rest of the wireless games must be complete drags. American Sk8teland provides 
 the WiFi user with the ability to link up with players via friend code or auto match and see who 
 can outscore each other. Theres also ways to play other game modes but the lack of any real way 
 to communicate with your opponent sort of defeats the point of online gaming anyway in this reviewers 
 opinion.
  
  When it comes down to it, even though the game faithfully recreates the Tony Hawk experience it 
 loses it's luster halfway in due to meager objectives and it's lack of a real challenge. The online 
 portion does not serve it any better in rekindling the users spirit and the game is best played 
 in short spurts when you just feel like skating in a few lines and landing the biggest combo. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rigard_manx
Rating: 8.3
Date: Mar 6, 2006 1:07 pm PT
Review:  I've never been a great fan of Tony Hawk games, I always think the've used the same stuff again, 
 again, and again.
  But I was interested by American Sk8land ( see I even got my skating terms right!) It had something 
 catchy about it maybe it was the graphics? Nah!
  Ahh.. that's it, the online I just wanted to see how Activision, would of used the Nintendo WiFi, 
 but more of that later.
  
  For those who don't know Tony Hawk Games are skating games. That began with a fun game involving 
 collecting S-K-A-T-E tags and doing 1 000 000 point combos. That was okay for the first few games, 
 but then they decided to that was boring, so they thought, hay, what about adding a story mode! 
 Thats right skating around talking to people with names like Builder 1 and Waiter, then they tell 
 you that she should do some stupid thing involving God knows what. So skaters who are meant to 
 be terrorising my Gran, are doing something for the community. But the combo of the two was good, 
 and added up to a nice game.
  
  But to the present, with the recent release of the 7th game in the series for home console systems, 
 which was honestly rubbish. Activision must have had an ace up there sleeve, and that came in the 
 form of this game. In ways it went back to its grass roots of the best game in the series Tony 
 Hawks 3. But adding some of the nice features of the more reacent games. An added some nice things 
 of its own. Such as pritty snazzy Cel-Shaded Graphics. The good thing that its done, is they haven't 
 added the DS touch Screen features for the hell of it, which is a problem with many DS games. The 
 game has 2 modes play Classic and Story. As well as 2 player WLAN play and 4 Player WiFi play. 
 With some average customise options. The nice thing about the game is the length of it and replay 
 value I completed the game in 15 hours, but keep coming back for more. Also the Nintendo WiFi is 
 great, it added things that I thought should've been in Mario Kart: DS, including a functional 
 lobby, where you can check up on leader boards, unlock special content and much more. As with any 
 Tony Hawk game the story mode is not that impressive but, it does what it's meant to do, and there 
 is still classic mode to keep you entertained. 
  
  I think this game is a must own game for DS owners, especially those who want to play WiFi. As 
 with all Tony Hawk games, there is areas for it to improve greatly in, but all we can is hope and 
 pray, they work on those areas and give us, more reason to come back to these quite fun games. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Spudmaster28
Rating: 7.8
Date: Mar 1, 2006 6:26 pm PT
Review:  I havn't played a WHOLE lot of Tony Hawk in my video game experience, but according to what I have 
 played, this game is EXACTLY THE SAME! I'm not saying that's a bad thing, but if you are a fan 
 of this series, you probably won't play all the way through this, since it is the same as all the 
 others. 
  In the beginning of this game you are assaulted with one of the most generic stories of all time. 
 Blah, blah, blah... save this... publish that... do this trick... skate here... oh my god it's 
 Tony Hawk... and so on and so forth. When I first played, i was dumbstruck by the graphics, to 
 say the least. They feature cel shading at its best, or at least on a handheld. The controls sometimes 
 posed a problem. Trying to press the X and B buttons at the same time without pressing the A or 
 Y buttons in the process is like trying to jump off a skyscraper and land on your tongue. The gameplay 
 formula stayed true to the formula of American Wasteland, and the Underground versions of the game. 
 Talk to this person... do this for them... yay, $250. The sound was stunning... plain and simple. 
 The songs in teh soundtrack were crap, but they played in the background incredibly clearly, but 
 i don't know if i want to hear "I LIKE DIRT" perfectly clearly. (Yes, one of the songs is called 
 "I Like Dirt") There is a park editor, but it is hard to describe it in a way that is not calling 
 it a piece of sh**. There is no way to place the ramps/ half pipes/ rails you buy wherever you 
 want, because there is a pre-chosen set of ramps/ half pipes/ rails for a certain place in the 
 warehouse. It includes a "classic" mode, which follows its PS1 and N64 predecessors, which is a 
 nice break from the run around and do random stuff formula of story mode. Although it includes 
 classic mode, it is too freaking short.
  In conclusion, my final reaction to the entire package is "Meh." It could have utilized the DS 
 functionality better. It would have been SO cool if there was an easy way to control a game like 
 this with the touch screen, but what are you gonna do? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: flinnha
Rating: 8.6
Date: Mar 1, 2006 4:23 pm PT
Review:  This addition to the Tony Hawk series stays true to the original formula, with a couple new perks. 
 My favorite addition to this one is the map located down on the touch screen. Remember how frustrating 
 it could be looking for that one little thing in those big levels? Now you've got a map available 
 at all times to help you out! This is especially usefull when playing multiplayer and you're trying 
 to find your opponent to slap! If you're a fan of the series definitely pick this one up, the controls 
 are nice and precise, you now can ue a touch screen icon to execute special moves instead of having 
 to remember a+left+b+R+down.... etc which is really handy, and it's portable! You can play the new 
 fangled story mode like is seen in Tony Hawk's Underground, and you can also use the old skool 
 pro mode where y ou've in the level for 2 minutes and complete whatever goal you like. What's not 
 to love? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SmashAndRun
Rating: 9.6
Date: Feb 28, 2006 6:22 pm PT
Review:  This game is much better then anyone would think. You may think this is your typicle skateboarding 
 game. It is not! The comic book theme is great. The music is great, but there is such a short playlist. 
 But its enough to get by. There are four modes you can play. Freeride, Story, Multiplayer, and Classic. 
 Story mode is simple. You just skate around for money to build up the Warehouse. Freeride is cool. 
 Skate around on all unlocked levels and have fun. Its also an easy way to raise your stats. In 
 Classic you go through all the levels as any character and complete the goals. Everytime you complete 
 a characters classic mode you get a cheat. Multiplayer is awesome. DS to DS is really simple. Skate 
 around and vs people in a few different types of games. WiFi has to be the best part of the game. 
 Verse people all over the world in a few different types of games. Its just the fact that you know 
 you are versing someone in China or Japan gives you the... innovative feeling. Ignore the price 
 and just buy this game. It kicks @$$!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Spongemario
Rating: 9.1
Date: Feb 28, 2006 5:05 pm PT
Review:  This game is not to be confused with the console game Tony Hawk's American Wasteland, which came 
 out before this game did. 
  Tony Hawk's American Sk8land is the first skateboarding game for the Nintendo DS. And if that weren't 
 impressive enough, this game makes use of the Nintendo Wi-Fi Connection! Yes, it's hard to believe 
 that a skateboarding game can be online, but it makes great use of it. Owners agree that THAS's 
 online modes are much, much better that Mario Kart DS's online mode. 
  The game begins with you winning an Amateur skateboarding contest. Yes, the first cutscene shows 
 you celebrating. It's none other than Tony Hawk who's impressed with you, and he takes you along 
 to Hollywood! There, you meet Mindy, who is your other best friend in the game. You must show off 
 your skills with the skating locals there, earning money. You later find out that it's up to you, 
 Mindy, and Tony Hawk to collect enough money to put in new pieces to rebuild an old skatepark, 
 named American Sk8land. Sounds good? Good! 
  Screenshots do this game no justice. Screenshots of this game make the game look like crap. That 
 is certainly not true. You really have to see the game in action, because the graphics are brilliant. 
 Vicarious Visions pushed themselves to the limit making top-quality cel-shaded graphics, and my, 
 do they look great! Unfortunately, your character and all of the playable pro skaters are the only 
 people that have any detail in them. The rest of the characters look just like blocks. There's 
 something that makes up for that, though -- the cutscenes. It's like watching a live comic book 
 about the adventures of the three of you, and they're AWESOME! But unrealistic. You won't ever 
 see a red pimped-out bus do a boardslide along the edge of a bridge. 
  Favorite dings, grinding sounds, and bail grunts are back, and sound just as good as ever. This 
 game features over 30 minutes of punk-rock music, but nearly everybody hates the song "I Like Dirt". 
 Thank goodness for the option to select songs that you like to hear. If this wasn't good enough, 
 you can make your own custom sounds for special moves and bails! I tried it, and they sound very 
 clear. Think of it as a premonition to voice chat, featured in the upcoming Metroid Prime Hunters. 
 Also, let me go back to the cutscenes again -- Tony Hawk himself lends his voice for the cutscenes, 
 and even they sound great! Mindy's voice, though, not so much. 
  Ah... this game goes back to the basics of Tony Hawk gameplay. The freedom to skate (nearly) forever, 
 but even if it was just skating, it would be great. You cannot get off of your board in this game. 
 You can completely stop to either spray some graffiti or go into a Freak Out, but that's the best 
 you can do. While many TH fans frown upon this decision, old-school TH fans love this. You get 
 to do so many different tasks in the game's Story Mode to collect money, you even get to impress 
 a number of pros, and compete in a pro contest! And then there's Classic Mode, where it goes back 
 to the basic basics - you pick a level, and it starts a two-minute run, and you try to complete 
 a number of old-school objectives, such as getting a high score, finding the secret tape, etc. 
 Then there's Free Skate, where you can just tear it up anywhere. Sadly there's no person anywhere 
 in any level, so it feels really lonely. 
  Tony Hawk games are known for their customization. This game's customization is very limited, but 
 there's still customization. There's like ten different head pieces, ten different torso pieces, 
 and ten different leg pieces to customize your character. Create-A-Trick is completely gone; Create-A-Park 
 was, I guess, replaced with the Warehouse level, where you can buy a variety of different pieces 
 in one fixed area. But now for the good stuff: since the DS has a touch screen, you can completely 
 draw your board deck and graffiti! And you can save two different board designs and two different 
 graffiti marks! The customization here is simply astronomical! But I digress... there's sadly a 
 glitch in the drawing tool, which draws a diagonal line at random when using the touch screen. 
 Thank goodness for the Undo button... 
  Now for the online goodness. Here, you can Automatch or Friend Search -- search for random people 
 to skate with, or skate with a friend, respectively. You both start out in the Vans Skatepark level, 
 but either of you can request to each other what level to go to and what game mode to play in - 
 such as Free Skate, Trick Attack, et cetera. The fun's only beginning. You can DOWNLOAD completely 
 new goals each month, and play them as often as you want (while connected to the WiFi connection) ! 
 There's usually three new goals in a level, providing something slightly more challenging than 
 the Story Mode goals. I remember having to perform an Anticasper over a distance to complete a 
 goal. Easier said than done. Provided that you're a registered member of american-sk8land. com, 
 and you've linked your DS account and online account, you can upload your deck and graffiti designs, 
 and you can even download other people's work, and maybe they'll download YOUR work! Have you ever 
 gotten a superhigh score in any level of Classic Mode? You're free to upload your scores and times 
 to the website as well, and compare yourself to the rest of the world! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kbturner1438
Rating: 8.8
Date: Feb 26, 2006 1:14 pm PT
Review:  If you think of the dull game boy games when you see this game for the DS think differently! This 
 is a full fledged 3D game. The graphics aren't bad at all. They remind me of the PS games. However 
 the faces arent very elaborate. But who cares. I mean why would you be looking at the persons 
 face when you can be designing your own skateboard and tags, grind, fly, spin, grab or manual through 
 the amazing levels. The levels are skate parks and Cal. streets that have convenient spots everywhere 
 for skaters that are ready for the time of their life. On the bottom screen is a map that always 
 just makes me confused, however I'm often confused. It also has a slowmotion focus mode and a handfull 
 of specials you activate by touching the screen. You only need 1 card to play wirelessly with friends. 
 If you dont like that idea than you should like the idea of playing someone that probably don't 
 have any idea how to speak English. These controls are amazing. Despite the DS's small number of 
 buttons everything works out beautifully. The game is really easy to beat but it can entertain 
 you for evrer even after that. Well not forever but for a really long time. Over all a full fledged 
 Tony Hawk game for dual screened to go is good very good. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Killermonkey97
Rating: 8.4
Date: Feb 26, 2006 7:32 am PT
Review:  Tony Hawk American Sk8land is basically a port to Tony Hawk American Wasteland. The story is a 
 little different, but still, basically, the same idea: riding around Los Angelos. Here's my review:
 
  
  Gameplay: I don't get it. I found this game to be way more interesting than Tony Hawk's American 
 Wasteland. I wonder why? Mainly, I think, is the fact that it is a portable port of the game. It 
 is also the fact that it is way more creative than Wasteland, giving the fact that it is on the 
 DS. For example, you can make your own skateboard (with default designs if needed) by using the 
 touchscreen. The touchscreen is used for alot during gameplay. You can use it for focus by poking 
 an eyeball-like icon, to freak out, which is used by a little minigame where you try to touch three 
 bars as high as they can go, and even for a map. Another thing that is great about this game is 
 Wi-Fi. It is almost the same thing as online in Wasteland, except for the fact that it is portable. 
 They even have online scoreboards to see who has the highest scores and broke a record. Now for 
 the problems of this game. First off, it is still more on the easy side, despite this game being 
 a little harder for the first-timers. Another thing is that it is on the short side and you can't 
 walk in this game, which can be annoying if you liked the THUG series better than THPS series, 
 or just started out with the THUG series. But really, Tony Hawk American Sk8land proves to be the 
 better of this year's Tony Hawk games. Congrats.
  
  Graphics: Once again, it is amazingly better than Wasteland. The cartoony, cel-shaded graphics 
 are just plain awesome and sharp for the DS. However, I could do without the sort of cheesy character 
 cutouts during an objective speech.
  
  Sound: The story still is pretty stupid, as well as the dialogue of it. But what saves the sound 
 from being like Wasteland are the sound effects. You can make your own sound effects for your skater, 
 which is quite creative and can be funny. That, and the soundtrack is nicely connected, even though 
 a little part of all the songs are missing.
  
  Value: Great addictive fun, just a shame that the single player will be fun enough for just one 
 round, and you do only play against one person each Wi-Fi match, which can be a good thing and 
 a bad thing.
  
  Tilt: If you need a Tony Hawk game in your collection, get this game rather than American Wasteland. 
 If you are a newcomer, this is your game and all, but you might want to rent it or check it out 
 in a demo before buying it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ultimateblader
Rating: 7.7
Date: Feb 24, 2006 9:25 pm PT
Review:  this game has graphics tht u think are bad but get used to later on in the game, but this game 
 does not allow u to jump off ur board! the faces, well there are none its jst a circle on a body 
 so this game was a let down on the graphics but the tough capabilitys really do help and r fun, 
 same tricks and controls as ps2 but smaller lvls and worse graphics* * * * * * * * * * * * * * 
 * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DSgurl
Rating: 7.4
Date: Feb 19, 2006 11:38 pm PT
Review:  I've been Tony Hawk games since the original THPS, so it's no surprise that I would find myself 
 playing the latest installment in the Tony Hawk franchise, Tony Hawk's American Sk8land.
  
  Let me start off saying that THAS is a very easy game, even with kid mode off. Tony Hawk patrons, such 
 as myself, should find this game one of the easiest TH games ever. Well, pertaining to story mode 
 at least. In classic mode, it's not that difficult either, but some aspects, such as goal completion 
 and scoring, may not be so easy to certain players. Nonetheless, I had very little difficulty completing 
 story mode, which made me feel satisfied and dissatisfied at the same time.
  
  Like the console version, you begin as a skater from the midwest who had good skating skills that 
 catch the eye of, you guessed it, Tony Hawk. From then you go on to meet Mindy, a comic book artist 
 who helps you out around the L. A. area. Afterwards, you begin Hollywood, gradually earning more and 
 more money while adding pieces to your skatepark, dubbed the "warehouse."
  
  The goals are simple and straightforward; none are complicated to the point of frustration.
  
 
  One missing component in THAS is create-a-modes, which is one the console version, You can't build 
 a park from stratch, you have very choices in terms of clothing and accessories for your skater, and 
 you cannot purchase clothing either. This cause much frustration to me. I felt constrained at one 
 point because of what you can and cannot do. This bothered me, but I realized that there wasn't much 
 I could do, so I just continued on.
  
  As far as the graphics and sound go, they would nearly on par. I didn't appreciate the lack of clarity 
 cell-shading provided, and the short playlist, compared to the console version, quickly became repetitive. Otherwise, I 
 find both the graphics and sound to be adequate enough.
  
  THAS, despite some absent components, is a recommendable game. It can be an enjoyable game if you 
 appreciate what it does offer, and the wi-fi feature is one of them. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: xretrofairyx
Rating: 6.3
Date: Feb 19, 2006 3:23 am PT
Review:  The game is good. I don't like that there's other people to talk to unlock stuff and nobody is 
 defined so its hard to see. When you create your own player it really sucks. The head is too small 
 and the clothes are weird. The sound is really good. I think one of the voices of the rugrats is 
 one of the voices here. The music is great especially since Holiday by Green Day is one of the 
 songs. So I just have that playing all the time. I like that it's really customizable. Drawing 
 your skateboard and your spraypainting is just like using paint and is even better than it. Also 
 that you can use your voice in it too. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ComicalGamer
Rating: 9.2
Date: Feb 17, 2006 7:19 am PT
Review:  Woah, Skateboarding, Custom Designing, Wi FI, TONY HAWK, OLD SCHOOL TRICKS!
  
  this has to be the best of the TH series ever! and now it came to the DS, how much more can you 
 describe this thatn perfect!!!
  
  The part i most enjoyed about this game is that you can design the board, and show it off to people 
 Wi Fi, also the great selection of customizing your character amused me alot!
  
  Also the places you can skate, Santa Monica was my personal Favourite
  
  But the thing you 
 must all like is that you can form your very own clan of skateboaridng online (Wi Fi) and go on 
 showing off, getting great reputation and recruiting new members!! not only doese this have a great 
 texture of graphics but the gameplay is the best thing you can say!
  
  Abosolutely perfect game for the DS 
::::::

::::::
UserName: uncle_cheddar
Rating: 10
Date: May 17, 2006 2:35 pm PT
Review:  if you like the tony hawk series, than you will love this game. it has great graphics, especially 
 for a hand held, except the characters are cartoons. this makes sense during the video (you'll 
 understand when you see it) , but during game play, they are still like cartoons. but, if you get 
 into it like i did, you won't even notice (personally i do not care, but i know how some people 
 will not even rent a game if it has bad graphics so... just letting you know) . also, i love how 
 they have whole songs playing. kick ass! that is certainly improvement from what there has been 
 in the past, and far beyond what i expected. nice story as well. I played the console version but 
 only for a short while, but what i picked up from it, leads me to believe that the stories are 
 different (though i am unsure, so check some more reviews or something) , not like it matters though. 
 I keep accidentally comparing it to it's console counterpart, but i should not do that. this game 
 is unique, and in a category all it's own. Wi-Fi feature especially nice. overall, highly recommend 
 this game to any skateboard poser who can't even kick-flip. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: benfelix557
Rating: 9.3
Date: Feb 14, 2006 6:57 pm PT
Review:  wow this game is something else. the story mode is awesome as well as the multiplayer.
  
  pros-
  -great graphics for the ds
  -gameplay blew me away (a lot better than psp's THUG2r gameplay)
 
  -WiFi is fun (trick attack, combo mombo, scoring run ect)
  -you can create your own sounds using the mic. when you fall you can make it go F*** or when you 
 laand something you can make it go YES!
  - create your own graffiti and boards using touch screen.
  -music sounds great
  -cool boards 
 (baker, almost, birdhouse, dgk, ect.)
  - focus is awesome!
  -plenty of sweet locations
  
  cons-
  -not many songs
  -only 2 people on WiFi
  - kinda gets easy (you can switch difficulty 
 though.
  
  conclusion-
  sweet game. great gameplay. buy it.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: RPGsRock21314
Rating: 7.7
Date: Feb 11, 2006 10:39 pm PT
Review:  The Good: Nintendo Wi-Fi Connection, Story mode is easy, which can be good at times, good graphics 
 for a DS game, fun and addicting!
  
  The Bad: Can't get off board, can't do as much stuff as you could in THUG and THAW, Wi-Fi can freeze 
 up at times (well, for me it did)
  
  Tony Hawk's American Sk8land is fun, online and off. Just not as fun=P. Don't get me wrong, it 
 is a great online game that is very addicting. The levels are just like the THAW ones, which is 
 pretty cool. It isn't as good as it possibly could have. But if you do want a compettitive, fun 
 Nintendo Wi-Fi game, look no further! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: HexrapperII
Rating: 8.2
Date: Feb 11, 2006 2:35 pm PT
Review:  Skateboarding games took off as soon as Tony Hawks Pro Skater hit the market. Spin-offs of all 
 sorts - in the forms of Thrasher: Skate and Destroy, Mat Hoffmans Pro BMX and MTV Skateboarding 
 featuring Andy MacDonald - were published, but many ignored as the only game really worth playing 
 was Tony Hawks. That was back in 1999 - today, there have been over a dozen Tony Hawk games made, 
 including spin-offs, spanning so many different systems that its even managed to reach the obscure 
 N-Gage. Tony Hawk sure knows how to get around on that skateboard.
  
  Tony Hawk games are addictive, and thats thanks to its solid engine. Lets kick off with the 
 basics. Tony Hawk games are skateboarding games. In these games, you move around the various environments 
 (which range from a Warehouse to a Cruise Ship to Hollywood, throughout the series) pulling of 
 combos of tricks. Combos are really what make the Tony Hawk games so fun - its like the shooting 
 itself in shooters, its what defines the series. The idea is to chain together the tricks you 
 do. Tricks are all worth some amount of points, and there are various types of tricks. Flip tricks, 
 grind tricks, grab tricks, manual tricks, lip tricks and other tricks.
  
  One flip trick may be worth 120 points. Tricks such as flip tricks or grab tricks (where you flip/grab 
 your board, as the name would suggest) can be done on ground and can be done into a manual. The 
 manual is one of the things that connects these tricks. A manual is the balance on your board in 
 an awkward position (where you could actually lose balance) - generally riding on the front or 
 back wheels of a skateboard only. You do a flip trick, or a grab trick into a manual - then youve 
 already started your chain (combo) . As you fight to keep balance of your manual (which you do by 
 balancing a balance meter as its indicator moves from left to right) you look for where you can 
 continue this combo to score even more points.
  
  You see a rail up ahead, and you can grind it. So you approach the rail and move into a grind trick 
 - essentially a manual on rails - and keep balance as you slide along. Once you hit the end, youve 
 racked up more points, and you go into another manual before you touch the ground. Up ahead of 
 you is a quarter pipe, and off that you know you can to a special trick. These clever special tricks 
 can only be done when your special meter is full, and you fill that by successfully pulling of 
 tricks. A special trick can be worth ten times as much as a normal trick, but it usually takes 
 longer to pull off.
  
  So you skate up the quarter pipe and youve gotten air - you decide to pull a Fingerflip Airwalk, 
 one of the shorter special tricks. You do it and land on the quarter pipe. As you land, you revert 
 - a move that can be done with the simple tap of a button. The revert spins you around on your 
 skateboard on the ground as you land from something such as a quarter pipe - and gives you a brief 
 moment to ollie (jump) and land into a manual to keep your combo going.
  
  Thats a Tony Hawk game in a nutshell, and if it doesnt sound appealing to you, then you will 
 not enjoy Tony Hawks American Sk8land. Which is rather unfortunate, as not only is THAS the best 
 handheld version of a Tony Hawk game ever thus far (arguably - some may give this honor to the 
 PSPs Tony Hawks Underground 2 Remix) , but it also in quite a few ways trumps its big brother 
 console game - Tony Hawks American Wasteland.
  
  THAS starts you off with a nifty menu similar to that of THAWs - a chain of options top to bottom 
 with music playing in the background. Not the bloops and bleeps of GBA yesteryear, mind you - real, 
 licensed music. This game has a good selection of different songs - Dead Kennedys, Green Day and 
 Frank Black among others. Some songs have been cut in size - most notably Dead Kennnedys California 
 Uber Alles - but it isnt a horrific short cut like THUG2 (GBA) s was, meaning its acceptable 
 and understandable (considering the medium the datas being put on) . A bonus is the option to turn 
 off any song you dont like and dont want to hear - which is in the Options menu. The Options 
 menu sits along side the Story mode, the Classic mode, the Free Skate mode, the Wi-Fi mode and 
 the Skateshop mode. Each of these modes are rather deep, definitely more so than the GBA Tony Hawk 
 games of yore.
  
  The first mode on the list, the Story mode, is the main mode of the game. It covers a very short 
 story (regardless the difficulty you pick - and theres only two difficulty options, unlike in 
 THAW) thats different from THAWs. Youre skating at a local skatepark, busting some sick lines 
 (though at this point youre not actually controlling the game) when Tony Hawk, legendary skateboarder, 
 checks out your skills. Hes wowed by your abilities and asks you to come on the bus with him to 
 Hollywood to shred there. You follow, and upon arrival to Hollywood you meet local skate chick 
 as she refers to herself, Mindy. Mindys a budding cartoon artists hoping to get her skateboarding 
 comic American Sk8land published, and she decides to tag along with Tony and you. You quickly discover 
 an old warehouse - one where Tony Hawk and other pro skaters apparently grew up skating. However, 
 its unfortunately not in the best of condition. So Tony Hawk comes up with a great idea - make 
 cash and re-build it! And thats basically what youre doing throughout the entirety of Story mode 
 - collecting cash by doing goals and then buying pieces to add to the warehouse.
  
  When you load up the first level, Hollywood, youll be greeted with so many changes to the GBA 
 predecessors that youll wonder if the same development company even made this game (and they did, 
 too) . The first major change is the camera - no longer is the camera set at an awkward isometric 
 angle as in every GBA Tony Hawk game to date - its now set behind you, the skater, so that you 
 can explore this fully 3-D as you would from the view of a platformer -just like on the console 
 Tony Hawk games. Thats right - THAS is fully 3D. It feels and plays just like THAW, save for a 
 few missing features and tricks. However, it doesnt look like THAW - THAS has a look all of its 
 own. Its cell-shaded - that meaning it basically looks like a cartoon, as in Cel Damage or Legend 
 of Zelda: The Wind Waker. This cartoon feel doesnt take anything away from the Tony Hawk series, 
 but does successfully add flavour and personality - something that THUG2 (GBA) tried so desperately 
 to do but miserably failed at. Each character has unique clothing and look, and the environments 
 are coloured with bright, beautiful colors - blues among the buildings and yellows among the streets. 
 Its enjoyable to skate in this area, and it lacks any of the realism or grit of THAWs version 
 of Hollywood - which is surprisingly a huge plus.
  
  Skating around in THAS is not slow, as some would think. It feels a lot like a mix between Tony 
 Hawks Pro Skater 3 and Tony Hawks Underground - it isnt as fast as the recent Tony Hawk games 
 (its more at equal speed with THPS3) , but it includes many of the features of the new Tony Hawk 
 games. Remaining is the wall slap (where you bounce off a wall by pushing your leg into it and 
 projecting yourself off, a trick thats very handy when it comes to combos) , the spine transfers 
 (where you can transfer from one quarter pipe to another, as introduced in THPS4 - this also allows 
 you to level yourself when launching off a vertical ramp so to save you from bailing if you move 
 too far away from the ramp or to level you with a rail above you so you can continue your combo 
 there) , the Natas spins (spinning around on a pole, for example) and the rolls (frontflip/backflip/roll 
 tweaks from THUG2, which means you can tweak any air trick you do with one of these to make it 
 also a frontflip/backflip/roll) . Gone is the ability to walk (as introduced in THUG) and the ability 
 to ride BMX bikes (a huge addition to THAW) . The two missing features dont kill the game by any 
 means, but the ability to walk has become an integral part of modern combos on the console - its 
 lack of appearance on the handheld means that console veterans will have to slightly adjust their 
 combo styles. It shouldve be much of a big deal.
  
  The goals you complete can be anything from trying to rack up as much points as possible in the 
 time limit you have to spray painting your tag on various marked spots around the area. These 
 goal are all very easy - any Tony Hawk veteran will breeze through these (and the story mode itself) 
 in just an hour or two if they select the goals from the menu (instead of riding around the city 
 looking for the people to give them the goals, as in THPS4 onwards) . The newbies, however, will 
 need to take time to adjust to the mechanics of a Tony Hawk game - which are thankfully easy to 
 grasp, if taken bits at a time. As you rack up the dough by doing these goals, youll be able to 
 purchase pieces for the warehouse - you always get three different pieces to choose from, each 
 one different in price. You dont get to select where to place the pieces, but the ability to select 
 which pieces at least allows for some customization of the warehouse.
  
  As you do the goals youll eventually get enough done to take on the main challenge of the level 
 as issued by a pro skater - you could basically call them the boss battles of this game. The 
 pros challenges, however, are often as pathetically easy as any of the other challenges, defeating 
 the whole purpose of giving them to pros to give to you as the final challenge of the level. After 
 you beat that goal, you move on to the next level. THAS takes THAWs levels and ports most of them 
 into the game card, losing only pieces of each at various points. However, THAS lacks a number 
 of levels from THAW - all of THAWs Classic mode levels are missing, as is Santa Monica, Casino, 
 the Skate Ranch and the Oil Rig of THAWs Story mode. Replacing those are both the Warehouse (the 
 same one you build - basically this games Skate Ranch) and Alcatraz from THPS4. Alcatraz is shockingly 
 similar to its THPS4 counterpart, and is possibly the most identical level of all those in THAS. 
 However, that doesnt excuse its replacement of such levels as Santa Monica or Casino - plus, 
 why choose Alcatraz over such levels as Kona or College, where the Story of THAS would make much 
 better sense? Alcatraz is a good level, but the decision to pick it over other just-as-good levels 
 that would make more sense with the story is puzzling. I shouldnt complain, but when something 
 like Kona could have been included you have to wonder.
  
  The Story mode wont last long if youre a veteran and will remain pathetically easy throughout 
 - even on the pro difficulty setting. And that leads to one of the downfalls of THAS - its really 
 too dang short. Classic mode extends the play somewhat, but not enough to make it as long as many 
 other DS titles available currently. Classic mode is, however, probably the funner than the Story 
 mode, if only because it resembles Tony Hawks Pro Skaters 1 - 3s Career modes. In Classic mode, 
 youre given ten goals and a two minute timer to complete them in. Goals range from collecting 
 all the S-K-A-T-E letters to getting a sick score of points. All the levels from the Story mode 
 are here, so nothing from the game is missing. Classic mode is also tougher than the Story mode 
 - on the pro setting, the last level of the game will have you trying for a sick score of two million 
 points and a pro combo of one million. Both these prove that THAS is there for the veterans - its 
 just confusing then as to why the pro Classic mode is somewhat difficult whereas the pro Story 
 mode isnt.
  
  After you complete classic mode, your single player objective seeking is basically over. You can 
 replay Classic mode with other pro skaters in the game and unlock cheat codes for the game this 
 way - but as the cheat codes are just that, cheat codes, there really isnt much inspiration to 
 go through it over and over unless you want a 100% complete file. But thats where the Wi-Fi options 
 come in. THAS is one of the DS three online games at the moment, and is probably the most robust 
 of the three as well. Online, you can from your own crew (basically a clan) by signing up at the 
 American Sk8land website, and then compete online in-game to be the best crew, or you can just 
 go head to head against other players. Cheating isnt possible online, thankfully, so everyones 
 on the same page. Actual online play require a broadband Internet connection along with a wireless 
 adapter, but if you have that then youre good to go with the same mode that kept you playing the 
 console Tony Hawk games. By going online you can also download more goals for the games levels 
 - and thats just the first of the promised slew of downloadable extras for the game. THAS hits 
 the online nail in places Mario Kart DS didnt, and also hits the nail where Mario Kart DS did.
 
  
  Many of the games quirks lies in the Skateshop, however. Here, you can do things such as designing 
 your own board, giving yourself custom sounds and selecting different specials to use. Designing 
 your own board uses the touch screen to allow you to draw a graphic for your board - unlike in 
 the console games where you select pre-made designs and throw them on the board. Selecting different 
 specials this round also allows you to select which combination of buttons that special requires. 
 You can also reprogram the touch specials - special moves that appear on the touch screen when 
 you have special in-game that you simply touch to activate, rather than entering a button combination. 
 You can customize the sound you make when you fall and the sound you make when you nail a gap or 
 special move using the DS built in microphone. Youre restricted to an extremely short amount 
 of time to make the noise you want - two seconds or less, about - but the sheer coolness of hearing 
 yourself in-game when you fall or land a special more than makes up for it. The Skateshop has lots 
 of little quirks like these that utilize the DS full capabilities and offer fun extras to enhance 
 your gameplay experience.
  
  That isnt to say that this game doesnt have its fair share of faults. THAS is unfortunately 
 quite high in bug/glitch count. Sometimes you can still skate beyond the end of the time limit 
 in Classic mode, if youre pushing in combos too quickly the game can sometimes be a little bit 
 laggy in response time and the game has frozen itself when playing after cut scenes. There are 
 also ways to exploit the games many areas in-level which offer such short grind times that nothing 
 really happens to the balance meter. However, there dont happen often enough to kill the game, 
 making it still very playable. But, there is one bone-crushing error in the game that is rather 
 terrible - once you complete Classic mode, you get a cheat code. However, if you incidentally choose 
 to restart that round, you miss that cheat. Never to see it again. Ever. Unless you restart your 
 game. And that really, genuinely sucks. But, it's avoidable.
  
  THAS isnt an amazing new Tony Hawk game that trumps every other game in the series to date. Rather, 
 its an extremely respectable interpretation of its console counterpart, put on the DS and showing 
 a lot of what the DS is really capable of. The game is solid, fun and it has everything key that 
 a Tony Hawk game needs. Its easily one of the better titles out on DS right now. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lunarmanx
Rating: 9.7
Date: Feb 11, 2006 9:26 am PT
Review:  Okay now, here's the review for this really awesome game. Brought to you by Lunar, the awesome, 
 err, review..... ist.
  
  Gameplay:
  
  The gameplay in this game is pretty good. So many different combinations of tricks and moves. The 
 story to this game is about the main character, who you name, well call him Lunar, because that's 
 what mine is named. Well anyways, Lunar wins a skate competition and meets Tony Hawk, Tony asks 
 him to go on tour with him, eventually it leads up to them raising money to rebuild an old broken 
 down skatepark, or Sk8land.
  
  Graphics:
  
  The graphics are really great cell shaded type. Some of the best graphics for the DS so far.
 
  
  Sound and Music:
  
  One of the most noticable parts is the music. It is constantly playing a shortened version of Green 
 Day's song Holiday. You can choose other songs but the main one is Holiday. The sound effects of 
 like, grinding, or rolling etc. are also very nice and clear.
  
  Replay Value:
  
  The replay value on this is amazing, so many tasks to do, or just do free skate in several different 
 complex areas.
  
  Overall, even if you don't like skating, this game is still really fun and you should definitely 
 atleast give it a try. Lunar out. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hm4fs
Rating: 8.2
Date: Feb 10, 2006 9:12 am PT
Review:  PROS: Bold, colorful graphics; Fun combos and cheats; Lots of replay value
  
  CONS: Graphics a little on the PS1 side; Cut scenes arn't really characters, just drawings; Some 
 moves don't always work, making it seem impossible to complete some goals
  
  The game is short, but it has things you can just do for fun. Once you beat story mode, try to 
 go back and get all the money you can by taking every persons challenge through the levels so you 
 can get all the best things for your warehouse. (I have done that)
  
  In Classic mode, you can go through all of the levels with different characters and complete goals 
 like the other versions, like getting 30,000 points or higher as a score, or collecting the letters 
 to spell SKATE. Every time you unlock the warehouse level with another character, you unlock a 
 cheat. Activate the cheats from the options menu. Also try to MAX out every character's stats, 
 and complete every objective on every classic mode level for every character.
  
  FREE SKATE ALL AROUND! The only thing about freeskate that isn't really good is that you have to 
 load different levels, but inside the levels they have ways to get to the next, like going through 
 a tunnel to get to Alcatraz from East L. A. It is still a good way to MAX out your own character's 
 stats, and practise moves for the Classic and Story modes.
  
  As far as online, I don't really know about that since I havn't played it yet.
  
  This review 
 probably didn't help you, but I didn't really expect it to. :l
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: sundhar
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 31, 2006 11:07 am PT
Review:  This game is a suprising hit it almost blew me away. the amout of custom options that can be done 
 is great and the player voice recording adds to the personilisation. the avatars and board art 
 makes the games options endless . as for the main game it is pretty easy but because of all the 
 unlockables there is good replay value, classic mode adds a bit of the old skool to the mix by 
 putting on old challenges in this increases the games life and can sometime be better than the 
 main game. the cut scenes are funni and very involving and the skate park creator has lots of options. 
 but the main point of the game is multiplayer wi-fi there is not many modes but the meer presence 
 of wi-fi is enough to make any tony hawk fan weak at the knees. on the tony hawk website u can 
 join crews and post ur art work and register scores. there is also 2 player which is great with 
 friends. 
  over all this game has anything a tony hawks fan wants, or even game fans. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Cube_Dude
Rating: 8.4
Date: Jan 30, 2006 6:36 pm PT
Review:  Here we go again, yet another Tony Hawk game has hit store shelfs, but this one is a breath of 
 fresh air from the recent crop THUG titles. 
  
  Gone are the days of running around on foot, and driving horribly twitchy vehicles, also gone is 
 the fixed isometric view of previous handheld Hawk titles, now we get a proper 'console' view form 
 behind the character.
  
  But these aren't the only changes, the graphics are now FULL 3D and have a fantastic Cel Shaded 
 look to them, they run at a flawless 30-40 frames per second and look great in motion, especially 
 the character animations, there is little to no popup and the textures are smooth and detailed.
 
  
  The sound is pretty good also, With some great sound effects that are almsot as good as the console 
 version. There is a small amount of voice overs which are all sound decent. And there is over thirty 
 minutes of Music, most of which is very good.
  
  The gameplay is as solid and fun as ever, the DS's D-pad has no trouble and the game is just as 
 responsive and smooth as on the consoles. The cross button layout of the DS also makes doing all 
 of the games tricks easy and intuitive. The level design, while not the best the series has seen, 
 is still quite good and in some place's rather inspired, many of the trick lines are obvious and 
 easy to pull off, but the best lines are cleverly hidden and extremely enjoyable to find.
  
  There are several modes of play including; Story, Classic, Free Run and Wifi.
  
  First 
 off is Story mode, in this you create-a-skater, and romp all around the U. S on a road trip, you 
 see, you're out to save a skate park from being destroyed by earning enough money to ultimately 
 buy it, not the most original plot, but with some amusing cut scenes and dialog, it's interesting 
 enough to keep you playing all the way through, it's also not very long, clocking in at about 6-10 
 hours, depending on the how good you are. 
  
  Next is Classic mode, this is just like the old THPS games, you get two minuets to skate around 
 and complete as many of the various goals as you can within the time limit, these goals range from 
 getting a certain amount of points, to collecting the letters S. K. A. T. E and so on. 
  
  Free Run is pretty self explanatory, basically you just skate around the levels with out a time 
 limit, this is a good way to get to know the levels and scope out those insane combo lines.
  
  Last but not least we have Wifi, here you can go head-to-head against another human player 
 in a selection of modes such as Combo Mambo and Trick Attack, these modes are fun but the lack 
 of a chat function makes it feel a little limited, but still fun.
  
  You can submit you high scores for all the levels on to an international score board, you can also 
 watch replays of the top skaters and upload any art (skate decks and grafitti) you've made using 
 the DS's touch screen, you can also download art created by other players by logging on to the 
 American Sk8land website on your PC and creating a profile which you can link to you're DS identity, 
 from there you can browse art and add it to your collection then simply log on to Wifi and download 
 it.
  
  All in all I'd say that Vicarious Visions have made an excellent DS title, with solid and addictive 
 gameplay and great Wifi support. So If you're into Tony Hawk games, or are just looking for a great 
 DS title, then check this one out. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bwolf92
Rating: 8.8
Date: Jan 28, 2006 5:42 am PT
Review:  I'll admit right up front that Tony Hawk's American Wasteland was like a bucket a flaming dog crap 
 that just hit you in the face. It was bad. Really bad. Now thankfully there's not a very good Tony 
 Hawk game out on DS. The stages are amazingly stuffed into the game and are mixed versions of modern 
 and old skool ones. The gameplay feels kinda weird on the ds's contoller but it's good for balancing. 
 Graphics are one of the best parts here cuz they're cel shaded and look really cool. The music 
 fits in well and it's amazing that they got it on here. The story mode as pie (i beat it in less 
 than a week) but still ok. I'm really getting sick of every goal being some stupidly easy task 
 like "Hey you skater person, can ya like go get my wallet that like mysteriously is on top of that 
 building!?" Classic and freeskate modes are here and just as fun as always. What's really cool 
 though is that there's multiplayer and online play. Pretty sweet. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: The_loser15
Rating: 8.6
Date: Jan 25, 2006 11:46 am PT
Review:  Activision have done a great job in bringing the skateing franchise to the DS. For a start the 
 graphic's are great, the cel shaded style suits the DS system. I am glad activision have made an 
 effort in makeing good graphics, rather then copying the home consoles graphics and failing miserabley. 
 Sound is also another great aspect of this game, like console version there are fully licensed 
 songs being used such as green days-holiday, rather then the GBA's bleep's
  
  The gameplay is similar to other tony hawks games however due to the lack of buttons (and that 
 diabolical kid mode) it may seem a bit simple to the Tony Hawks master's out there. The touch screen 
 feature's in this game seem a bit pointless aswell. For example when you really mess up in the 
 game you get the option to Freak out! Where 3 bars move up and down and you touch the screen o 
 stop the bars, when all 3 bars have been stoped based on how high they are to the top of the bar 
 will determine how much of a tantrum you have and you actually get points FOR THAT!!!??! Also the 
 touch scren an activate special move's. Oh and like usual it's also A MAP.
  
  Local and online multiplayer will keep this game shining afterwards aswell, the limitation i have 
 come across online is there is no background music but hey it's a DS game i'm not suprised really.
 
  
  Overall this game provides a great skateing experiance but is good for none skateing fans aswell, 
 i'm off to go fail online yet again ciao!
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Tuddytudman
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 22, 2006 10:51 am PT
Review:  Gameplay: perfect for the DS! The classic mode is absolutely brilliant for when you are on the 
 bus, or are wasting time during boring sunday mornings.
  
  Graphics: Cel shading combined with cutscenes that remind me of a sort of comic book that you play 
 and listen to.
  
  Sound: Most of the soundtrack is awesome, It is impressive to hear Greenday on your DS and some 
 songs (such as Sonic Reducer and I Like Dirt) are brilliant enough to have you singing along to 
 them when you play. and believe me, it is pretty embarassing to sing on a bus...
  
  Value for money: The story mode is long enough to last most competent gamers about 3 Days if you 
 just rush through, but If you complete all the goals on all the modes It will last for weeks. The 
 addition of online makes this worth keeping forever.
  
  Lifespan: As I mentioned in value for money, It depends on how long you want to take and how good 
 you are at this type of game.
  
  Reviewers tilt: I absolutely love the tony hawks games, and this is not an exception... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: packymaster
Rating: 7.7
Date: Jan 21, 2006 7:47 pm PT
Review:  This game is a very nice addition to the Tony Hawk series. I have always been a Tony Hawk video 
 game fan, but I havent been too into them lately, but this game brought me back. The story line 
 is fun, and I enjoy the cartoon graphics of the game. This game has a good amount of skaters to 
 choose from, and a few cool codes that make the game even better. The touch screen specials were 
 a good idea for this game. I also like the slow motion feature on the touch screen. The wireless 
 game play is also fun, and the way the game interacts with official website is amazing. You ca 
 edit boards and graffiti and upload it and download other people's from the website to use. At 
 first I didn't know to buy it or not, but I did, and I do not regret it at all. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Maluigi
Rating: 8.8
Date: Apr 6, 2006 6:59 pm PT
Review:  Tony Hawk... Handheld!!!!! Can you believe it?!?!? Anyway, the game starts out pretty cool. You 
 get to hang with Tony after winning a skate contest. You eventually meet this girl who wants to 
 make a magazine titled "American Sk8land." That was Tony's favorite Sk8park, so everyone goes to 
 check it out. Unfortunately, it's run down. The main objective is to get money, then buy new parts 
 for the sk8park so that it doesn't get torn down and turned into a mall. You gain money by doing 
 various tasks for citizens, sk8ters, or even garbage men. 
  The gameplay is just as amazing as when the series first started! AWESOME!!! The graphics are also 
 top-notch! The music was good, but could have been a lot better though. Overall, the game delivers 
 one twist after another with its amazing gameplay and creative missions. I really can't urge anyone 
 (yes anyone) enough to play this game! It totally RULES!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jeff16950_demon
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 18, 2006 7:42 pm PT
Review:  .. The best in the series. Yes, there has been online Tony Hawk games before this title, but no 
 other online experience is quite the same as American Sk8land. Not only can you download new goals 
 each month, but you can play other people, create a crew, download and upload art, make your own 
 graffiti and skate with all your friends. To sum it all up, i have never been happier with a handheld 
 purchase in my life. This game is so creative in every way, with gaps to find, people to skate, 
 and endless fun. If there is one game right now that i would highly recommend, it would have to 
 go with this one. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: K03NTJ3
Rating: 8.7
Date: Jan 17, 2006 1:58 pm PT
Review:  Well, first impression was the style.. i think everybody thought it's kinda new for a Tony hawk 
 game.. not too crappy, but if you see Mario Kart DS.. you think they could made the graphs a lot 
 higher
  
  Awhyea.. im a skateboarder, so every tony hawk game i play, must have some kinda story in it.. 
 it does have to make sense to people, that skateboarding is not a fantasy sport like Deathrow or 
 something. skateboarding is For Real. the first Dissapointement for me was that the game was also 
 very unrealistic.. you can make too much combo's and gain 1000 points for 1 trick.. ITS NOT ABOUT 
 THE POINTS IN SKATEBOARDING~!!
  
  well.. if we DONT talk about the text above, i have to rate it after all.
  
  Gameplay:
  The 
 gameplay is kinda cool. it rocks there is a story mode with a lot of cool and sometimes difficult 
 goals. also there is a classic mode, witch u can compare with the THPS series. get 213445 points 
 in 2 min ect ect. really cool. multiplayer mode rocks, the only bad thing about that is that you 
 only skate versus 1 player... not more.. also the opportunity to create your own decks and logo's 
 is very cool :D
  --my rating: 9.0 --
  
  Graphics: 
  well, its anough for a handheld tony hawk game.. but i think they Could make it a lot higher for 
 the ds.. the toons in story mode are really cool, not crappy at all. that's the coolest graphic 
 part in the game.
  --my rating: 8.0 --
  
  The Sound:
  yeah. i love the music. it is realy skate music! taken from few movies like the Girl - Yeah Right 
 movie. also the opportunity to speak in ur own samples is cool. that's worth a lot. the sound overall 
 is one of the best things of the game!
  --my rating: 9.0 --
  
  Value:
  Im dutch, so i dont know what it means. if value means you can play for ages, its defenetely true! 
 you keep trying to brake ur own records and create decks to put them on the internet. its grait. 
 i go to school by train, and then i often play this game when i have found a nice seat. defenetely 
 worth a 10!
  
  My Tilt.
  Very cool... a few little facts that make it less fun.. but overall it gives me a 8 in mind
  
 
  Conclusion!
  if u have a ds, u just got to have this! this is one of the most-played games in my collection, 
 and i really think it was worth my money..
  
  Have fun =)
  Koen 
::::::

::::::
UserName: super_brick
Rating: 8.6
Date: Jan 17, 2006 10:58 am PT
Review:  When you first play the story mode, you'll laugh. Maybe. Cos this game is EASY. In reality, Tony 
 Hawk is arguably the Best Vert skater ever, but if you did his best tricks only, you'd SUCK.
  But it's still a great game.
  The controls take a while to get used to. 'What? why's the grind 
 button there? surely it should be there? but then where would flip be? But...' But you'll get used 
 to it, and when you do, You'll love every moment. Well, Most Moments. The Story is alright, but 
 WAY too short, although some value is added by the create-a-deck, create-a-board, and create-a-tag 
 mode. The create-a-skater mode has little variety and will come as a dissapointment to Old School 
 TH fans. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kagemusha219
Rating: 9.6
Date: Jan 10, 2006 5:41 pm PT
Review:  This game is fun for so many reasons. first of all its the first THPS game for the DS and you can 
 do so much stuff. First of all the places where you can skate are huge. they are all streaming 
 worlds with people and cars in them. the story mode is fun but kind of short. even though its short, 
 you will still play this game a whole lot, PLUS ITS GOT ONLINE. which by the way is very fun. The 
 graphics are cartoony with trails coming off the board and cel shaded graphics. The best part though 
 is that it uses all the DS's features. This game is the one i played the most out of any DS game. 
 It isnt perfect, but u will play it alot... believe me. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DJ_devster
Rating: 8.7
Date: Jan 8, 2006 6:07 am PT
Review:  what can i say? what is there TO say? this game has all the fun of the other tony hawks games with 
 cell shaded graphics that suit the series well. Theres a good few skate parks to shred and wifi 
 multiplayer. The multiplayer isn't all that innovative either and they could have made the effort 
 to make it so when two skaters collide on goes flying off. or make it so you can get off your board 
 like in THUG. but it's still fun.
  
  On the plus side, theres lots to do in the story mode and classic mode and some of the songs are 
 quite good and the map on the touch screen is surisingly useful
  
  All in all THAS is gr8 fun but lacks a bit of hawk magic that has made THPS2 so amazing
  
  
 Graphics:9 some of the best on DS but some bits look ugly
  Gameply:8 slightly flawed in a few ways and they left out some of the multiplayer modes
  Sound:10 
 there are some accual songs and a lot of speech from the hawk himself
  Value:9 you'll probably be board by the end but still fun
  Tilt:7 
::::::

::::::
UserName: esn2500
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 2, 2006 9:04 pm PT
Review:  Believe me when i tell you this game is fun. It really is. The gameplay is addicting and makes 
 you just wanna skate around trying out tricks. The graphics are cell shaded but suprisingly good 
 and it has a good framerate. The sound is ok, it has the regular grind sounds and ollie sounds, ect. 
 The soundtrack isnt very good but when your having fun skating around you dont really listen to 
 it. The customization options are cool with your own artwork on your deck and making your own recordings 
 for bails and when you land a special. There isnt much outfits or clothing and hairstyles to choose 
 from but it isnt changed much when your having fun with the gameplay.
  
  The story may be a bit too easy on regular difficult but you can always change it to hard. It also 
 has the classic mode and you can freeskate with a decent amount of pros to choose from. The multiplayer 
 is awesome with the wifi. You can create crews and play normal games like trick attack or Horse. 
 So you wont be wasting your 40 bucks on this game. Seriously this game is really good and addicting. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: elpuertorican
Rating: 9.2
Date: Jan 2, 2006 8:51 pm PT
Review:  At first, when i saw American Sk8land at E3, i really had no idea of buying it. Then i read the 
 review at gamespot of the game and well, i thought of buying it. The i bought it and its actually 
 a preety cool game. The stages are practically the same places of american wasteland (thats a good 
 thing) and, although it takes a little time to get used to the controls, the gameplay is preety 
 sweet. Although the game is really easy, its a cool game and it has great multiplayer gameplay. American 
 Sk8land`s strong point is innovation and graphics. Bdeing able to record yourself is awesome (although 
 its only 3 secondes) . And the cartoonish graphicas are cool to, although im used to the classic 
 tony hawk graphics. If your a ds owner who is a fan of skateboarding, well this is a must buy. If 
 you are just a casual ds user, this game is at least worth a rent. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: adamrig2000
Rating: 9.1
Date: Jan 2, 2006 12:16 pm PT
Review:  This game could be one of the best handheld games of all time. Not just because of the game itself 
 but the way it has pushed the nintendo ds. An exmaple of this is the way the game has proper music 
 tracks that are not just dodgy techno things. Also the smooth play of the game amazed me. The framerate 
 never lags and it runs really smooth. On to the gme itself, the game has an alright storline which 
 involes rebuilding a skatepark. The touchscreen is put to good use using it to excute specials 
 and freakouts and also to design a deck. This game is strongly recomended. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Superperson
Rating: 8.4
Date: Feb 19, 2006 8:50 am PT
Review:  Don't go into this game expecting a full translation of this year's installment of the popular 
 Tony Hawk franchise, American Wasteland. Do that, and you will be severely disappointed. While 
 this is a good game, it just can't live up to the expectations of its big brothers.
  American Sk8land's plot is nothing special. Midwest kid goes to L. A. to seek his skating fortune, 
 Tony Hawk and skate chick with annoying voice discover him, they all try to rebuild a classic skatepark, 
 bla bla bla. The story mode is a lot like, suprisingly, Tony Hawk's Pro Skater 4, in that you skate 
 around a level and talk to pedestrians, who give you missions to do, from doing the tricks they 
 call out, to grinding a gap, to doing a certain trick. It is fun while it lasts, which is about, 
 sadly, 5 hours. However, those 5 hours give an awesome experience. During Story mode and afterwords, 
 you can use the money the pedestrians give you when you complete a task to build up and revitalize 
 the classic, now-broken-down skatepark, American Sk8land. (Notice the 8 in the title. Genius.) 
 This could have had so much potential as a Create-a-Park mode, but it is just basically choosing 
 between 3 different pieces on each of the, say, 8 editable spots. While it's fun, it just doesn't 
 have much depth to it. After you finish story mode, you can also play Classic mode, familiar to 
 anyone who's either played the first 3 Tony Hawk games (before they went all "street") or played 
 the new games, which have it as an additional mode. It is fun, you can upload replays of your runs 
 and high scores to the Internet, and it contributes to the replay value nicely, but it just feels 
 boring at times.
  Speaking of the Internet, yeah, you can play this game over the Nintendo Wi-Fi connection. While 
 the actual online gameplay is simple and average (5 modes, 2 players) the real treat comes when 
 you go to the official website at american-sk8land. com. There, you can upload your custom art (yes, 
 you can design boards and graffiti, in addition to recording your own custom sounds with the DS 
 mic) , download others' (I got a sweet Darth Vader deck) join skate crews (sort of like clans) or 
 see how you stack up against other players around the world.
  The levels are amazing. Pretty and large, they really show just what the DS can pull off. The entire 
 game is done in a cel-shaded, cartoony theme. Your skater looks good from a distance, but, like 
 the rest of the game, has some graphical glitches. Nothing game-ending, but just stuff like going 
 higher on a ramp then the designers intended and discovering the building next to you has no roof, 
 or going right through a telephone pole. The graphics are pretty, and the camera is great, with 
 a third-person 3D view of your character. This is a welcome change from the annoying isometric 
 view the GBA games, including a port of this one use. If, for some reason, you are an old guy who 
 wants the old-school camera, or you like not being able to see where you're going, or if you just 
 enjoy pain, you have the option to use the isometric view.
  The sound is good, and bad. You've got about 12 full punk rock tracks in-game that sound fantastic, 
 almost like listening to an MP3. The songs ocassionally lean towards junk ("I Like Dirt"? Who at 
 the Vicarious Visions office was stoned that day?) but are overall very good.
  When you put this all together, you get a very ambitious game that is good, but just isn't great. 
 I would, however, call this the best handheld skating game ever, and I hope that Vicarious Visions 
 polishes this off and gives us a great American Sk8land 2 this year. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jacash3492
Rating: 9.7
Date: Dec 31, 2005 9:57 am PT
Review:  This was an amazing game and totally fun to play. If you enjoy Tony Hawk game's than you'll love 
 this game. I love that that the characters are cartoons. This game is kind a like THUG but shorter. 
 The only problem with this game is that it was a little to short. It took me only like 2 hours 
 to beat it. The only hard part in the game was trying to land the Japan 900. But beside that flaw 
 this was a n excellent game overall. If you thought about buying this game, then you were thinkin 
 right. It is totally worth the money. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: haven13
Rating: 8.8
Date: Dec 30, 2005 10:01 pm PT
Review:  This game is alot of fun. There are 7 decent sized levels and they are all fun, I dont have a favorite, 
 they are all great. The Graphics look great and They have 13 whole songs that are decent, although 
 there is this one song calledI like dirt "........ yep..... I dont know what they where smokin 
 when they put that in their. 
  the gameplay is great because it has all the things that you would see in a regular Tony Hawk game, 
 you know flips, douple button tricks, focus mode, all the good stuff. Plus it has Classic mode 
 for old time enjoyment. 
  
  Now, the best part, drum roll  ok fine, 
 online play! Online is the reason you will always be coming back to this game. You can sign up 
 on the official website so you can download avatars and board designs, you can even join a crew 
 or start one! You can send your stats for others to see, like your artwork for people to use, and 
 scores on different places you've played at in calssic mode, and other cool things. Plus, of course 
 you can play with people, and its fun and simple. So if you own a DS and you like the Tony hawk 
 series, go buy this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Emerging-XIII
Rating: 9.6
Date: Dec 30, 2005 7:17 pm PT
Review:  This is a great game with kinda kidish graphics and kidish goals but it was enough to sooth my 
 crave.
  
  Gameplay: Good. Goals were a little easy but ti wuz still very fun. The wifi capabilities are fun 
 too, i just tried it today. People will log off though in the middle of things so thats really 
 lame.
  
  Graphics: Superb. I think they fit the game very well, and dont make the graphics look choppy like 
 they would look if they werent cell shaded. They graphics work well with the Ds and need to be 
 apreciated.
  
  Awsome game get it now while you have the chance. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: games5522
Rating: 9.6
Date: Dec 30, 2005 4:31 pm PT
Review:  As you have noticed, the Tony Hawk series of games has slowly gone from pure skateboarding fun 
 to more gimmicky ideas like those jackass-inspired objectives where you have to ride a shopping 
 cart down alcatraz or killing a shark by grinding on this giant slingshot. Tony Hawk American Sk8land, 
 however, goes back to its pure skateboarding roots.
  
  The first thing you'll probably notice is the new 'cartoon' look it has. This is to stop people 
 comparing the console versions with the DS versions. The other thing you'll notice is how smooth 
 the game is. It is just as smooth as the console versions. There is a slight problem with this 
 though. The draw distance is ok for the environment around you, but objects that you have to collect 
 only appear when you're really close.
  
  There are two main modes in Tony Hawk's American Sk8land, Story mode and Classic mode.
  
  Story 
 mode is a mode you should finish very quickly. In Story mode you meet Tony Hawk and rebuild an 
 old skatepark.
  
  Classic mode is the mode that reminds you of the old Tony Hawk games. In Classic mode you have 
 to to the old fashiond objectives like collect 
  S-K-A-T-E and get high scores and find the secret tape. 
  
  The Wi-Fi on this game is decent. 
 You can play multiplayer and download new goals for story mode and stuff.
  
  In my opinion, Tony Hawk's American Sk8land is a very good game and I think you should buy it.
 
  
  Thank you for your time. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: shear1017
Rating: 8.2
Date: Dec 29, 2005 6:13 pm PT
Review:  This new Tony Hawk game is great. The graphics are colorful and the licenced music is cool. There 
 is a variety of tricks and this game makes good use of the touch screen. The story mode is cool 
 and has lots of unique goals. I do hate that u cant get off your board like in THUG2 and the camera 
 needs a bit of work as well. The Wi-Fi play is ok. Barley anyone is on but the cool thing is that 
 you can download new missions and goals so even if you think single player is beat you just began. 
 The game is easy to pick up and play so even people who are new to the series can enjoy this game. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Nutrious
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 29, 2005 1:55 pm PT
Review:  If you are a fan of the tony hawk game get this game. it has new features. you can use your voice 
 and draw your own board and spraypaint. Great graphics great gameplay great sound great framework.. 
 it has the full soundtrack in the one for console and PC. GET THIS GAME!!!!!!!!!!!! it has awesome 
 features you can also make your own skater and your own skatepark. totally customizable. I I I 
 I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I 
 I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I 
::::::

::::::
UserName: arsenaltom
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 29, 2005 8:27 am PT
Review:  It has been a great year for the DS-loads of great top selling games have comeout including Nintendogs, 
 Advance Wars, Castlevania, Animal Crossing, Mario Kart and with Metroid Prime and more top titles 
 heading our wy in 2006, I wouldn't be too shocked to see DS overtaking PSP in the 'must have handheld 
 stakes.
  
  American Sk8land is the DS version of Ameican Wasteland for PS2, Xbox and GC. This game is amazing 
 and is definately not just a port!
  
  Gameplay: Really slick and smooth which makes it fun and simple and easy to learn and play. It's 
 very addictive and is great to pick up and play when your bored, on the plane or in your car. The 
 massive free-roaming environments are also superb!
  
  Graphics: Tony gets cel-shaded and it works like a dream with the slick gameplay. All the environments 
 look great as do the characters and the cut scenes work like a comic book as seen in Ultimate Spiderman. 
 Activision is really getting into this cel shaded stuff!
  
  Sound: The cut-scenes contain full voice over and the quotes in the gamplay sound good. The soundtrack 
 is great and the ability to record your own cath phrases while playing using the mic is genius!
 
  
  Value/Lifespan: There's loads to do with story mode, classic mode, multiplayer, online and just 
 cruising round the city. You could also spend hours just creating skaters, designing borads and 
 graffiti tags and recording voice over!
  
  Overall this is a great game and any DS owner should certainley check it out, wouldn't be surprised 
 if you wanted to buy it. An instand classic for The Nintendo DS. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Scorpal
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 27, 2005 11:41 pm PT
Review:  Its a topper alright the one game that is absolutely addictive!
  
  
  The story mode is short but classic is one of the best features.
  
  I have recently started 
 playing wi-fi and its runs smoothly and its great fun !!!!!!!!!
  mastreing your stats takes a while too......
  What I like the most is creating grafiti and boards......
 
  so fun the missions are quite fun and chalenging too..
  A healthy balance! 
  
  overall: 
  
  So looking for a good game tony hawks american sk8land is a must have for all 
 gamers out their. Serious or Not.
  
  TGFA and this is to get the words to sum it up 
  
  
  cool smart real fancy moves cool boards great online play great graphics
  
  SUFRAGET CITY 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: metroid_frek1
Rating: 8.4
Date: Nov 2, 2006 7:05 pm PT
Review:  this game is totaly freakin' AWESOME!!!!!!! one of the best games for the DS! i would call it the 
 best game and game of the year for the nintendo ds along with mkds. the graphics in this are 3d 
 and it looks great. i love the cartoon style. the frame rate is perfectly silky smooth with the 
 cell shaded cartoon style which causes no chopping at ALL. licensened music is always good in tony 
 hawk games. one song i dont get. the music and sounds arent console quality, but who cares when 
 the game is fun? oh well. thats the reason i gave music a 9 instead of a 10. i also gave gameplay 
 a 9 because the touch screen stuff. yes its cool and innovative, but its simply kind of hard to 
 press the screen and try to keep a manual at the same time.... another problem is its too short!!!!!!!!!! 
 i bought this game today and i beat the whole story mode in 4 1/2 - 5 hours! the wi fi modes are 
 cool though. this game makes every tony hawk after part three look like a second rate game compared 
 to this. yes its that good. the verdict? buy it. overall this game is a must buy for and tony hawk 
 fan and a ds owner! this game will keep you downloading more goals and coming back over and over! 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Pillsburyhitman
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 23, 2005 6:05 am PT
Review:  ------------------------------------------------------------------ 
  Game Review 
  ------------------------------------------------------------------ 
  
  Introduction:
  The 
 Tony Hawk series have provided fans with the best skateboard games ever made. I certainly have 
 no interest in skateboarding, and yet I love the Tony Hawk games. This serves as a testament to 
 their excellent gameplay, perfect controls, and all around addictiveness. Tony Hawk's American 
 Sk8land for the Nintendo DS is no exception. It's also been highly anticipated by DS owners as 
 one of the launch titles for the DS Wi-Fi internet service. Does it live up to expectations in 
 this area? Yes and no.
  
  GamePlay: 
  Tony Hawk American Sk8land is one of the rare games that's gameplay has achieved, for lack of a 
 better word, perfection. That isn't to say that it's a perfect game, but it's hard to see how a 
 skateboarding game could be any better. If you've ever played a Tony Hawk game, you know just about 
 everything you need to know. It follows the classic TH formula to the letter, and has more in kind 
 with the classic Tony Hawks than it does with the THUG series. This is definitely a good thing, 
 as almost all fans agree that TH 1-4 were much better than their THUG counterparts. 
  The premise of the game's story (which is possibly its weakest point) is that you've met up with 
 Tony Hawk - who happens to be quite impressed with you - and that the two of you are building a 
 skate park. It follows the classic formula of performing tons of trivial goals to complete missions 
 while collecting hidden items like video tapes, a process which is quite fun and addicting. The 
 story mode will keep you entertained for quite some time, but the real meat of this game lies in 
 the multiplayer modes.
  The first thing you will notice is that the game is missing two classic game modes: Graffiti and 
 HORSE. Horse has never been very popular, but many people will be upset by the lack of Graffiti. 
 The game adds several new modes (some of which are quite fun, like The Price is Wrong) , but it 
 still hurts not to have Graffiti.
  Other than the lack of those two modes, the offline multiplayer gameplay is excellent and sure 
 to entertain you and your friends for countless hours. The internet multiplayer is an entirely 
 different matter
  Everyone and their mothers knows that Tony Hawk's American Sk8land and Mario Kart DS are the two 
 DS internet Wi-Fi launch titles. For the first time in history, Nintendo handheld owners can challenge 
 each other across the globe - absolutely free! Well, free assuming you already have a wireless 
 network set up in your home. If you don't, you can purchase the DS Wi-Fi USB adapter for a mere 
 $30, and it's quite easy to set up.
  So how does the game's online play measure up? Well, to be fair it's certainly better-developed 
 than Mario Kart DS's online play. Still, it could be much better. The same things that annoy you 
 in MK's online play, like the chore of adding and playing with Friends, will still annoy you here. 
 In addition the random match setup needs some major improvements. Nevertheless, the internet play 
 is remarkably fun and adds a substantial amount of value to this game.
  
  Control: 
  THAS controls mostly with the D-pad and buttons, with only minor touchscreen usage. Like the gameplay, 
 the controls really couldn't be any better. It handles with perfection and doesn't feel remotely 
 clunky. Very easy to learn and always intuitive.
  
  Graphics: 
  Another point where the game really shines. These graphics are so amazing that they could be easily 
 mistaken for a Gamecube or PS2 game. The designers opted to ditch the traditional Tony Hawk look 
 and give the game a complete graphical overhaul. It's now cel-shaded! And boy, is it beautiful. 
 The framerate maintains a lofty 60 frames-per-second and never experiences any slowdown, even when 
 multiple people are performing tricks onscreen. It's hard to see how the graphics could be any 
 better. A testament to the designers is that this game looks better than the PSP version, despite 
 the DS's inferior hardware!
  
  Sound & Music: 
  Excellent in every way. The tracks work just right, featuring tons of hit songs at CD-like quality, 
 and the sound effects couldn't be any better. The ability to use the DS microphone to voice your 
 own "bail cries" adds a lot of fun to the game. Just keep it clean, children ;)
  
  Dual Screen Use: (only for Nintendo DS games) 
  Nothing especially intuitive, but it doesn't 
 really matter. The game follows the popular trend of displaying a map on the lower screen and the 
 actual game on the top screen. In addition, the touch screen is used for "freaking out" when you 
 bail on a trick. It's definitely a nice addition to the gameplay and is a much-appreciated touchscreen 
 use.
  
  Final Comments: 
  I haven't had this much fun with a Tony Hawk game since Tony Hawk 3. This game doesn't disappoint 
 in anything except the online play, which is still excellent and can be thought of as a "bonus". 
 It's also much more enjoyable than the console versions of the game. The DS has had some amazing 
 new titles recently, and this is definitely one of them. 
  
  ------------------------------------------------------------------ 
  Game Rating 
  ------------------------------------------------------------------ 
 
  Pros: Great gameplay, impressive graphics, online play.
  
  Cons: Lack of graffiti mode, annoying flaws in the online play.
  
  Final Score: 9.0
  
  
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hitmewater
Rating: 8.3
Date: Dec 22, 2005 2:48 pm PT
Review:  The ups of this games are they are good cartoons graphics and its kind of hard at first man i had 
 a hard time just trying to beat the second level. Thats what i like about this game its fun and 
 well its just plain fun. Its well prepaired by the challenges of this game.
  
  Some of the downs of this are that you can only have three touch special well and you can do them 
 with out the touch special. Another one is the moves it doesn't have as many moves and tricks as 
 al the other lke take American Wasteland but other than that its a pretty good game. Worth the 
 buy to me
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: sloth_21
Rating: 7.2
Date: Dec 20, 2005 5:58 pm PT
Review:  Back during the days of the Playstation, Nintendo 64, and Dreamcast, a skateboarding game was made, 
 names Tony Hawk Pro Skater. Since than each year there has been a new renditon of the game year 
 after year. The game had many spinoffs, such as Pro BMX games, etc. It also started an extreme 
 sports fad with the rise of the Xgames, and rise of many novice skaters falling on their butts 
 trying to pull of the most basic trick in the game, the ollie. Ever since the game has went underground, 
 the series has been crap, so how did this game, Tony Hawk's American Sk8land fare?
  
  I'll start with the tangibles, what people first see. The team went for a cellshaded art style, 
 which was not a good decision. The graphic style makes the different levels of the city all seem 
 more of the same than they really are. The original graphics that they originally showed were much 
 more appealing, but the cell shaded graphics run at a silky smooth framerate, and the camera is 
 terrific in this game. The sound is great in the game though, they had a good amount of licensed 
 songs, and there is good variety, but it all is music that would fit into the games style, bravo 
 to the team on their music selection.
  
  I'll start with the single player. To start, most players will do story mode. In this mode, you 
 go around meeting people and doing stuff for them to get money from them to get money to rebuild 
 a warehouse into a skate park. Well needless to say, this mode is just flatout crap. It is way 
 too easy, and just plain isn't fun.
  
  There is also a mode called Classic Mode, which was the meat and bones of the original games. In 
 this, you get 10 goals per stage and you have to complete them, like getting a certain scored combo, 
 or run score, collecting skate, collecting the hidden tape, etc. This mode is a lot more fun than 
 Story mode, but is still very very easy. 
  
  The gameplay is still there, the game controls much like the PS1 version would, and the controls 
 are just fine, but the game doesn't have the elements that made the originals so cool. For example 
 the level design in this game is awful, there are basically two kinds of levels: inside and outside. 
 Can't distinguish too much of a difference between the levels within those two categories. One 
 big city where everything is similiar just isn't cool. I liked the classic days with courses like 
 the Canada one in Tony Hawk 3, I think the development team is just losing its creativity. Also 
 this game focuses more on personal player customization. While thats fine, but I thought it was 
 a lot cooler when the focuse was to unlock cool unlockables like Spiderman to play as.
  
  The game is full of customization. You can draw your own artwork to show up as your Graffitti, 
 and deck art, and also put custom sounds in for bails and such. You can import/export between the 
 website, but unfortunately you can't just take an image and just download it as your graffitti.
 
  
  The wireless play in the game sucks. Online and LAN are pretty much the same thing. This game, 
 like Mario Kart, features how Nintendo cheaped the system out on RAM. It'd be cool if other players 
 could have seen your graffitti online, but the DS doesn't have proper RAM to display that. Also 
 popular game modes like horse, king of the hill, and graffitti are absent from multiplayer play, 
 and replaced by redundant modes that aren't really fun. The only real good addition was "The Price 
 is Wrong" in which you try to get the closest to a set score, everything else is useless garbage 
 that isn't fun.
  
  In short, Tony Hawk offers a lot more online options than Mario Kart did, but the lack of the classic 
 game modes that we loved in multiplayer just doesn't help the game shine much. You can download 
 new challenged from the internet, but these are managed well, and are of minimal value. The game 
 is also plagued by the same awful Nintendo WIFI interface of Mario Kart, only with a more stylish 
 look. Tony Hawk's American Sk8land embraces the gameplay that made the originals great, but not 
 the sense of creativity tha the originals had. This game is average, but a repetitive city, and 
 lack of classic multiplayer modes hold this game back. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: borgmaster
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 18, 2005 3:43 pm PT
Review:  First off, this game is actually a good port to the DS, M'kay? 
  When I first heard that there was going to be a Tony Hawk for the DS, I have to admit that I had 
 my doubts; but that was a retarded assumption. 
  The gameplay, this is the only real problem area: it's too short, too easy, and really toned down 
 from AW (which is its console counterpart.) . What I mean in the third problem is that the story 
 lost all of its edge, its pretty much a light story (Tony Hawk see's you at a skate park, likes 
 your style, takes you to LA, meet Mindy [ in this one she's an aspiring comic book writer] , and 
 save and refurbish an old skate park. all and all, lighthearted.) What I mean with the 1st and 
 2nd ones is that I basically finished story mode and some of classic mode in one sitting (I stopped 
 because my DS died) . Like I said, really short and really easy. Oh yah, and also you can't get 
 off your board or do much spray-painting. But even though all of those problems, this is actually 
 a very good and enjoyable game, really it is.
  The graphics are cel-shaded (which add to the light-hearted feel) . And If you've played AW then 
 you'll most of the maps. But for a handheld the graphics are superb.
  The sound, music, and voice-overs are perfect except for one little thing. The voice clips for 
 whenever you go up to talk to someone can get annoying after a while (especially when you have 
 to hear it over, and over, and over again) .
  Finally, the value, like I said earlier the game is short and easy; but since you have to play 
 classic mode with each character to unlock new stuff, plus the online makes up for the shortness.
 
  
  So I give this game: a 9 out of 10. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ljmjag
Rating: 6.5
Date: Dec 17, 2005 7:45 am PT
Review:  First thing to remember - you can't get off your board. That's right, no running around with the 
 board in your hand and exploring a bit. Bad idea. A lot of the goals that you need to accomplish 
 in the game involve getting directions from characters that are standing around. This means that 
 while you are skating you have to go around and around and mash the "A" button so that you will 
 stop and chat - this gets to be annoyuing after a while.
  
  I've played a bunch of the Tony Hawk games over the years. After "Underground" which was great, 
 this version goes back to an old school cartoon graphic style that I thought was not nearly as 
 good or fun as prior versions and they took out some of the grittiness of other versions that I 
 really liked. The touchscreen is practically useless, hit it after a fall to "freakout" - but it 
 is mostly pointless.
  
  However, it is a Tony Hawk game and is fun to play. Also, the wireless works very well and it is 
 fun to skate against people from all over. But overall, I give this one a "fair". 
::::::

::::::
UserName: RE4GOD
Rating: 8.8
Date: Dec 14, 2005 5:14 am PT
Review:  Everyone knows bout the tony hawk series! and if u dont well...... *cough*
  anyway, American Sk8land is the first skating game onto the DS, and it is one of the funnest TH 
 game ive played. At first it felt like a normal TH game but with the new cartoon style, it felt 
 like they have done something different but still keeping the old school TH style by ranking up 
 hugh combos and massive scores! Also, using the Touch Screen to draw your own designs for Decks 
 and Graffiti has its charms, if ur a good drawer u could be there or hours. And finally one of 
 the first games to have Wi-Fi. You can upload ur decks, etc to the American sk8land website so 
 other ppl can download them and use them there selves, vice versa. the head-to-head is fun. So 
 if ur looking for a new game for ur DS, Tony Hawk American Sk8land is the go! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: AScarletAbyss
Rating: 8.8
Date: Dec 5, 2005 8:32 pm PT
Review:  It's way too short. I beat it in 2 hours and I just bought it yesterday. I re-played today in Pro 
 mode and beat it in 1 hour. Those are the downsides. The upsides: This game has many customizable 
 features such as creating a deck for your board, creating your own grafitti, and customizing your 
 own sounds to add in into this game. There are many missions that you can spend a while on, but 
 are fun. It also has voice acting, which is new for the DS. Another cool bit is the sound . They 
 have tons of great music by bands such as The Dead Kennedys and Green Day. The graphics are very 
 nice even though they are cel-shaded. I appreciated this game alot. It had many different tricks 
 with HUGE enviroments. I'd recommend you go out and buy this game if you're a Tony Hawk Pro Skater 
 fan. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bmbgiantfan56
Rating: 8.7
Date: Dec 4, 2005 6:30 pm PT
Review:  I have always loved the tony hawk series and this one doesnt let me down at all. The cell shading 
 came out beautifully and really shines on the DS. The gameplay is great, there are no slowdowns 
 or any choppy parts to the game. the wifi really solidifies the game and is very fun. The downside 
 to this game is the story mode can be completed in less than 5 hours, and is very easy. I got the 
 game yesterday and I have already beaten story mode. There also is no way to change the difficulty 
 level to make it harder. Overall it is a good game but it could have been longer. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DragonKed
Rating: 7.4
Date: Dec 4, 2005 11:24 am PT
Review:  I want to point out that this is my first foray into the tony hawk universe, and it served me well 
 for that purpose. Especially with the controls. The controls were simple such as, 'press X to grind', 
 but I found them very indepth as I progressed in the game. The story mode seemed pointless, though.
 
  I liked the rock soundtrack and it fit well with the almost cartoonish graphics. 
  I have no idea how the online stuff worked out 'cause I didn't want to dish out another 40 or so 
 bucks. 
  I overall think this is a good game although the price was too high. I have to tell you now that... 
 
  
  YOU SHOULD WAIT UNTIL THE PRICE GOES DOWN TO 30 BUCKS LIKE THE OTHER DS GAMES! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: baconsizzle
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 1, 2005 12:34 pm PT
Review:  Okay, i loved this game, i really did. In my opinion, it is a definite top 3 for the DS. I loved 
 the cartoon style graphics, and the fact that they had licensed tracks on there is pretty awesome, 
 although most of them are in the punk rock genre. The gameplay is awesome. I loved how it's like 
 the same control as the console versions. I only had one problem with it. The story mode and classic 
 mode are too short. The story mode is less than 5 hours long and you can beat classic mode in an 
 less than an hour. On top of that it is also very easy. But nonetheless, i've been a tony hawk 
 fan since THPS4 and this is one of the best ones yet. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Violent-M
Rating: 9.7
Date: Nov 29, 2005 5:24 pm PT
Review:  I was very sceptical of this game and how well it would be made. With the different development 
 team and the fact that the past few Tony Hawk games have been nothing worth spending your hard 
 earned cash on. But I took a risk and forked over the 40 bucks for this one. Let me just say it 
 was money well spent. I haven't had this much fun with a Tony Hawk game since Tony Hawk 2 for the 
 dreamcast which I think was the best of the series. The goals may be easy yes, but this is a handheld 
 game. Don't need to be stuck on a goal spending an hour or so to finish it when you are on the 
 go. It is supprising how well this game plays on the DS. The graphics are perfect for me. Good 
 enough to keep my mind focused on this incredibly nostalgic gameplay. The whole custom deck art 
 and grafiti are great added bonuses as well as programing your own voice into the game. Never thought 
 those little gimmicy things would be so much fun. The online play is great. They support it so 
 well. Getting online is easy, just one button to push and it seems like about 90 percent of the 
 people who own a copy play online, which is awesome. Never had a time where I couldn't find someone 
 to play with. The lack of two multiplayer modes doesn't bother me a bit, the way they work the 
 multiplayer and online is awesome and seamless and I'm glad they went for quality rather than quantity 
 with this game. I could go on and on about this game. But if you are trying to decide between this 
 game and Mario Kart DS... I'm very sorry for you. It is a shame you can't afford both, because 
 it's impossible to consider one over the other of these two great titles. Just go with what game 
 you prefer more. You will not be dissapointed. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cpke122
Rating: 9.1
Date: Nov 27, 2005 6:44 am PT
Review:  You start the game with a cutscene where u'll see Mindy and Tony Hawk who introduce themselves. 
 Afterwards you'll start in Hollywood and as always... complete some goals to advance.
  
  Anyway, here comes the review...
  
  Gameplay
  ***********
  
  Lovely, the controls are 
 sweet and if you don't like them you can always adjust them at the title screen. U get lots to 
 explore, tons of tricks (when u get full special bar, u can go slow motion for a few seconds and 
 u can do special tricks by touching the tricks on the touch screen) , voice acting, ... name it. 
 It's huge! When I bought the game yesterday I hoped it wouldn't suck and my wish came true... The 
 goals are a bit easy, but you can always explore the lvls etc... You've got plenty to do!
  
  9/10
  
  Sound
  *******
  
  10/10
  
  Perfect! There are 13 sounds in this game. 
 Like u're playing a cd, fine quality! One of them is from Green Day, Holiday. So u could imagine 
 what sound u get, most of them are punk or rock. U'll enjoy this for sure! When the 'Aw' isn't 
 good enough for you when u're smashing u're head against the floor u can always record something 
 and admire u're piece of art when smashing. U can also do this for the clicks when doing a special 
 trick. 
  
  Graphics
  **********
  
  9/10
  
  Cel-Shaded to give a "comicbook"-feel what seems to fit in this game! You have a good draw distance, 
 the characters are well drawn and so for the rest. 
  Sometimes you'll see that the faces aren't that well detailed and u might have some trouble seeing 
 what's coming ahead, because it's a bit pushed together. 
  
  Value
  ******
  
  9/10
  
  I bought this game yesterday and already completed the game for about 85%... Mostly I get "FREAK" 
 yelled at me by most people so the game is not that short. I played it for now about 25 hours. 
 And there's still the online mode, however I couldn't yet test it I think this boosts the value 
 of the game.
  
  R'ver's Tilt
  ***********
  
  I love to play these games, full of speed and enough to do. Plus it's an adrenaline boost for sure! 
 The game's worth it's 40 dollars for sure! Don't hestitate and go to the local game store now! 
 ;-)
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Yadish
Rating: 9.6
Date: Nov 22, 2005 2:34 pm PT
Review:  Hi I am Yadish! This game was the best. The graphics are nice and toonish.
  the sounds were awsome you can add your own custom sounds when you fall or do a gap or special 
 move the sound track was far better than i thought it would be. the gameplay was good with a good 
 varity of tricks to make some sick combos you can go into focus mode to slow done every thing you 
 can pull off specials with ease just by touching the icon on the bottom screen. It was worth the 
 money i spent for it all though i havent gone onine yet i bet it is the same thing as multi-player 
 which is still pretty fun with some new games in multi-player but they didnt have horse but they 
 had the basic like trick attack and freeskate. The levels were so big and fun! This is my favorite 
 game! Although it was pretty easy! they still got classic mode! Thanq for reading my reveiw! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cshadl1234
Rating: 9.3
Date: Nov 20, 2005 8:59 pm PT
Review:  I reserved this game not knowing if it would be good or not. I mean, I don't usually buy Hawk games 
 or even reserve them. I guess the only reason I reserved it (at the time) was because of the WiFi 
 skating.
  
  Well, I picked up the game on Thursday the 17th at EB Games and played it on my way home. I was 
 amazed by the graphics first and forehand. The wonderful presentation of Toon shading was wonderful 
 (reminds me of my TFC days) . 
  
  Graphics weren't the best of the bunch nor was it the worst. The next thing I recognized was the 
 customization in this game. I mean, if you are into easy-to-design things, this is for you. You 
 can use your voice to play when you bail or perform a special trick. Creating your graffitii and 
 boards was another awesome addition to the game.
  
  The final, and best of the best, of the game was, of course, was online play. I'd say this was 
 better than Mario Kart DS due to the more variety of things to do. You can upload your custom images 
 (2) and your decks (2) to your online profile at american-sk8land. com. At the site you can view 
 those 4 pictures and also add other members' decks and images to your profile and select 2 of each 
 group to download while still saving your own decks. Another great thing of uploading and downloading 
 is that you can have more than just 2 of each deck and image. With the online profile, you can 
 sort your images, delete them, and add them for download to your DS.
  The other things allowed with WiFi are uploading your stats, made during Classic Mode online. It 
 shows how long you grind, manual, and other things. Head-to-Head is great, but could have been 
 better. I mean, I love the different ways to go against someone like Combo Mambo and Trick Attack, 
 but you can only play one other person. A better improvement in maybe the next hawk game for the 
 DS would be to allow 4 player online.
  
  Overall, this game is great and a best-buy for anyone who even hasn't played the Hawk series. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sonic_X
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 20, 2005 8:12 pm PT
Review:  This game ROCKS!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!! I bought this game at noon and played it 4 like 8hrs. 
 it's AWESOME!!!!!!!!!!!!! If you ever buy a DS, get this GAME! some people think the cartoon style 
 is lame but it adds a good edge to the game to make it an instant hit. I chose it over mario-kart 
 because it's way better. Some of the best features in the game are the customization, u get to 
 draw ur own graffiti and even make ur own deck. there's so many trick in this game so you never 
 get bored. the levels are also very expansive and you could play 1 level for about an hour and 
 not see every part of it. the story part of the game focuses on you building a skatepark with some 
 help from pros and a cartoonist named Mindy. to get the money 4 the park u have to perform various 
 tricks 4 the locals, most of the tricks are fairly easy but they get harder as u play. so far i 
 think this is the best DS game made. the classic mode of the game is harder than story mode but 
 if ur used to the Tony Hawk series it wont be difficult. the most fun things to do while skating 
 around are skitching (getting pulled by cars) and doing graffiti round L. A. this game also adds 
 a playlist (the first one on DS) so you can pick which songs to play, my favorite song on the playlist 
 is Holiday by Green Day. THIS GAME IS DA  
 G-UNIT, SHADY, AFTERMATH, ORC, KANYE  
::::::

::::::
UserName: swavo1
Rating: 8.3
Date: Nov 19, 2005 4:31 pm PT
Review:  Tony Hawks American Sk8land is the first game in the Tony Hawk series to skate its way on to the 
 Nintendo DS. This game is different than the Tony Hawk American Wasteland which was released earlier 
 though. This game was made by Vicarious Visions and produced by Activision. 
  the game for the most part is your typical Tony Hawk game, you make your own skater, take him to 
 different levels and jack his stats up, play as pros, have two minute runs etc. There are some 
 differences though. Unlike the GBA version of the game, this works from a behind the back perspective. 
 This works well for the most part, but unlike the console version of the game this isnt a big 
 screen, its a tiny screen. And this doesnt make the game easy to look at since youre a little 
 close to your character when compared to the console and makes it a little awkward sometimes. Another 
 difference is that the game has had its difficulty level which it was renowned for toned down greatly. 
 The challenges set up are extremely easy, even on pro difficulty. The tasks usually put you right 
 in front of what you are supposed to do so its a matter of how good your hand eye coordination 
 is. The only difficult parts that you might find is the Classic mode or online. speaking of how 
 easy it is, when are first starting out this game you have to jack out your characters stats, you 
 dont buy them like you used to, instead you have to pass a certain amount of tasks to do it. The 
 problem is that it is possible to get a multi million point combo the first time you play and you 
 have just maxed out your characters stats.
  The levels in this game are remarkably large, but arent as well set up as previous games were. 
 Though the levels are so huge, the games graphics never lag at all, with a constant 60 fps. The 
 graphics alone are probably the best that you will see until Metroid Prime Hunters comes out next 
 year. A problem that occurs though is that you have a limited sight range in this game. This means 
 that you cant see anything unless its 10 feet away from you, which makes it hard to do and find 
 most things without looking back and forth between the map and your skater. the sound also is easily 
 the best on any game out yet, with songs like I like Dirt, Holiday, and Sonic Reducer it is a great 
 soundtrack and it comes out well even with the DS's weaker sound chip (when compared to the PSP) . 
 The moves come out well when you grind, manual, or do a special which can be a recording of your 
 own voice, are a pleasure to listen to. 
  This is also one of the first DS games to be wi-fi enabled. This game has a great online mode that 
 is connected to the website americansk8land. com. There are problems though, this game can only 
 have up to 2 players playing at once and most of the time they are of high skill level now and 
 can wipe the floor with your ass since its auto match. Another problem is that when compared to 
 Mario Karts 8 player multiplayer gamplay, just have 2 people that you have a hard time finding 
 can be difficult at some times since the maps are so huge.
  Overall, if youre a fan of the Tony Hawk series, you should buy this, but if you aren't sure that 
 its going to be as good as it looks, rent it first, you might finish it in a day, but with the 
 large amount of replay ability theres a lot to lose.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: nanabasher999
Rating: 9.6
Date: Nov 19, 2005 2:35 am PT
Review:  Tony Hawks Ds Is a must buy game, It shows off the full potential of the DS and the lifespan is 
 great!!! 
  From Customizing everything you have to saving and uploading artwork. This is great! All we need 
 is nintendo to make a small memory card that fits in the GBA slot and then we can really get lots 
 of things into these games!!!!!
  
  WIFI is a absolute Treat! Its fun making rivals, hehe, Little Punks!!!
  
  Also the Single Player 
 offers lots of LOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOONG levels and the sk8part has over 1000 different combonations!!!
 
  Even making sk8board art would be enough for me in this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DuckyBoys
Rating: 9.2
Date: Nov 18, 2005 6:53 pm PT
Review:  This game breaks thru the walls for DS it shows that 3-D skate games can be done on a DS and done 
 like they should have done this with THUG 2. I love this game play it so much everday. BUY IT WHILE 
 ITS IN STORES! as time goes by I realized PSP can't touch this game they may have THUG 2 but we 
 got Sk8Land. The charecters rule and the moves are amazing the Bert slide blows my mind. So if 
 you get this game cause of this Review I know that you well totally TRUCKIN agree. And I'm happy 
 to say that i was the first one in my whole county to get this game.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: WFCHurricane
Rating: 8.2
Date: Nov 18, 2005 11:14 am PT
Review:  Ok, I love the Tony Hawk games. I played thps2& 3 and thug 1&2. Now im playing wasteland and the 
 game still rocks. But i have some problems with the ds version. Example: when it tags, first you 
 see the tag, then ur character starts to spray. (without a can) I saw a few more of this little 
 problems but, they are no big deal. My biggest problem is the story mode, nothing about the story 
 (i think its pretty funny) but its way to easy. I started the game at pro and the day I started 
 I also finished (not 100% but youknowwhatImean)
  
  The graphics are really good, smooth framerate too. Only in focus mode it seems to go less smooth. 
 I think the sound is the best part of the game. Pretty much track (for a handheld) and good quality 
 too. totally awesome. 
  
  The replay, I think thats one of the tony hawks series best quality. You allways have a score to 
 beat. (I hope thats your's cuz the computer-highscores are not very high) The levels are pretty 
 big too so thats no problem.
  
  Finally, the WiFi. I didnt played online myself (i can't, I live in europe) but i guess that has 
 to be good, only thing is: u can just play head-2-head (2 players) I think 8 would be more fun 
 but 2 is nice too. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Floatcode1
Rating: 9.6
Date: Nov 16, 2005 8:46 pm PT
Review:  It was, I think, the year of two-thousand-and-three. On a fateful Christmas morning, the stench 
 of a dying franchise poured out of some festively-themed gift wrap as fast as it could be opened: 
 Tony Hawk's Underground had made it's way to my home: This would mark a change in the series from 
 then on.
  
  Not to say that THUG and it's respective sequels thereafter were anything less than stellar, but 
 it still stands in my heart that with that entry in the popular skateboarding series, the franchise 
 started to slowly fizzle. Don't ask me why: It was just a deep-down feeling that can be evident 
 with the newest console offering, American Wasteland. 
  
  There is still hope, however. Look away from your TV and down to your little Nintendo DS, and you'll 
 find what can be easily called the best installment in this dying series since the third entry. 
 Yes, I said it -- Tony Hawk's American Sk8land is the best game in the series since Tony Hawk's 
 Pro Skater 3. I came to this conclusion because, for once in my life, I based my opinion on my 
 thoughts toward the game, rather than that of those around me, and came to the conclusion that 
 it is overall more enjoyable than any stupid THUG/THAW abbreviation-benefit-based game that has 
 graced a console.
  
  What makes it so darn good? Presentation? Gameplay? Visual? Well, EVERYTHING makes this offering 
 good -- the presentation is slick and stylish with the addition of (slightly disappointing but still 
 fun) online play, not to mention that this game is sprinkled with little extras like voice recording 
 and a full-fledged character editor. Almost everything outside the set-in-stone levels is customizable, 
 making this something you want to perfect to your preferences. 
  
  The visuals are just as styling as the game's features, with a great comic-book (or, how the developers 
 would like to put it, "'80's cartoon") -style. You'd swear that this is the perfect choice to build 
 a skate-culture outing upon, and I would really enjoy seeing this kind of graphical style stick 
 on future entries in the series.
  
  The gameplay, although a little easy (but perfectly fixable through a slight tweak of options) 
 is perfect for the DS -- it goes back to the simplicity that made the Tony Hawk series so frickin' 
 great in the first place, but at the same time doesn't insult the intelligence of the player. The 
 result? A fast, pick-upable game that's great for casuals on the go or hardcore gamers ready for 
 hourly sessions.
  
  Last, the sound is awesome. I wouldn't go as far as to say it's console-quality, but it gets the 
 job done and then some.
  
  Let's just hope that (at least the portable) series follows this mold from now on. If you haven't 
 picked up this game yet, you definitely should. It's the holiday season, right? Put this right 
 the top of your Christmas list. Now. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hoser721
Rating: 8.8
Date: Nov 15, 2005 8:34 pm PT
Review:  this game is great very solid frame rate. better story then the console versions. the cel-shaded 
 look is awsome and the soundtrack isn't too bad, and the sound quality is amazing on the ds. the 
 online play although not perfect is probally better than mario kart's (no offense mk is awsome) . 
 eventhough this is the 31863th tony hawk game the gameplay still feels fresh. one of my only problems 
 with the game is not of the game's but it came out at the same time that mk did and i am hooked 
 on that. in summary, if mario kart isn't your thing get this game now. with the ds line up looking 
 as good as it is and sony too busy trying to piss everybody off with their murdering of electronic 
 rights too make good games i think that nintendo is coming up in the handheld market. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: morph5690
Rating: 9.6
Date: Nov 15, 2005 2:45 pm PT
Review:  this is the best thps game for a hand held game sistom. its soo cool its like thps1 thew thug2 
 in one freakin sweet HAND HELD game!!!. the Graphics r great for ds it looks like thps2. the story 
 is much much beter then thaw its just more funny and just beter!. the Sound is just great, the 
 sound track is a great tuch. and being able to record your voce so wen you ball or do a special 
 youl here what you recored. its nice and long, its abowt 12 to 15 hours. the costom art and bords 
 r just great. this is one, heck is the best ds game out right now. so if your thinking abowt geting 
 mkds or thas thas is the one youl get. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
