-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Tony Hawk's Downhill Jam
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/ds/sports/tonyhawksdownhilljam/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 Fast-moving visuals.
 contains online play.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 Nearly impossible to get a four-player match going without using friend codes.
 Tony Hawk trick system doesn't adapt all that well to this downhill racing format.
 occasionally buggy, locked up completely on multiple occasions.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Oct 27, 2006
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 6.6
Critic Score: 7.7, 33 Review (s)
User Score: 7.6, 157 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Activision
Developer: Vicarious Visions
Genre: Skateboarding
Date: Oct 24, 2006
ESRB: Everyone

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Tony Hawk's Downhill Jam takes the old Tony Hawk formula and puts it into a downhill racing game, 
 with very mixed results. 

  The Tony Hawk series has traditionally been all about open-ended levels that give you the freedom 
 to skate however you like and do whatever you want while seeking out goals that will help you move 
 ahead. Downhill Jam puts those goals on a steep slope and refocuses the trick-based gameplay of 
 the franchise to support what's essentially a downhill racing game. The structure of the game is 
 pretty sound, but moving the tricks into a racing scenario completely changes the game, and not 
 always for the better.  

          Tony Hawk's Downhill Jam tries to fit the Tony Hawk trick system into a racing game.   
   

  The same basic ideas you've seen in previous Tony Hawk story modes apply here. The story is that 
 Tony Hawk wants to start a downhill racing team, and you're his first draftee. So it's off to San 
 Francisco, where you're given your first list of goals. Many of the goals are based on winning 
 downhill races against artificial intelligence-controlled skaters, but some of the more typical 
 Tony Hawk-like goals pop up here, too. Some levels ask you to bash into garbage cans, meet certain 
 score requirements, or do specific tricks on specific pieces of the level. The goals that require 
 you to collect items are a little forgiving, since there are usually more items on the level than 
 you'll need to succeed. But the trick goals can get annoying, because if you miss it once, you 
 can't easily skate back and try it again, since you'd have to skate uphill to get there. The game 
 lets you quickly pause and restart a goal, but that's not always speedy, either. Furthermore, many 
 of the goals are either too easy or too tough. Style goals, for example, judge you on how "stylish" 
 you skate, and you earn points for landing cleanly, not wrecking, and not repeating tricks. But 
 any time you touch another skater, you get wobbly and lose points for having a sloppy landing -- even 
 though you might not have been in the air in the first place. As you complete goals, you open up 
 the game's other levels and earn stat upgrade points that you can put into four different categories. 
 The same levels are used in both single-player and multiplayer, and the courses have plenty of 
 long trick lines and handy shortcuts. The game controls are the standard Tony Hawk style, with 
 a few tweaks. You don't need to do a revert to keep a combo going, because the game gives you a 
 few seconds to get back into a trick before calling your combo finished. Also, the Y button is 
 used to give you a turbo boost when you're on the ground. You earn more boost by doing tricks. 

  In addition to the world tour story mode, you can jump into a quick race or free skate the levels. 
 You can also compete against other players locally or over the Internet via the game's Nintendo 
 Wi-Fi Connection support. There are a lot of different challenges you can get into when playing 
 against others, such as big air, which ranks you by how much time you can spend in the air while 
 heading down the course, or elimiskate, which cuts the last-place skater from the competition at 
 set intervals until only one remains. Overall, the multiplayer is more interesting than the single-player 
 game, but there's one tiny catch: The online servers for this game are almost completely empty 
 at all times. We've been able to get into some two-player matches using the game's automatch feature, 
 but attempting to get four-player games going with random players results in you spending an hour 
 or so staring at a menu that says "this may take some time..." No kidding. If you're more organized, 
 the game does have full friend-code support, and seeking out friends when they're actually online 
 is a much faster way to get into games. Plus, the game has voice-chat support that's only available 
 when you're playing with friends. You can also check out the online leaderboards and download an 
 extra goal for the game.  

          The key to racing is to split your time between earning boost and using it.     

  The 
 graphics in Downhill Jam are cel-shaded and sport the same style as last year's Tony Hawk's American 
 Sk8land. You can outfit your skater in a bunch of different clothes, including wrestling masks. 
 You can also design a logo and customize shirts using the DS's touch screen. In game, the bottom 
 screen serves as a map of the course, with points of interest highlighted, depending on which goal 
 you're currently trying to meet. When you have special tricks stocked up, you can either tap three 
 spots on the touch screen to pull off those tricks or do them the traditional Tony Hawk way by 
 executing a small button combo. You can record a custom sound effect for your skater using the 
 microphone, too, just like last year's game. The sound effects are the same as what they've been 
 using for a long time now, but they still represent the sounds of skateboarding pretty well. The 
 soundtrack is heavily compressed digital audio with licensed songs. It's a little scratchy, and 
 on top of that, it tends to skip from time to time, especially when you're looking for skaters 
 online. The game also locked up on us several times on the San Francisco level, forcing a hard 
 restart of the Nintendo DS and some loss of progress.  

  The points that stick out about Downhill Jam are its somewhat buggy nature, a serious lack of online 
 competition, and a single-player game that has potential but often isn't too exciting. On top of 
 that, changing the Tony Hawk games into racing games plays away from the series' previous strengths, 
 making the whole game feel like a second-rate SSX-style game. If you have friends that own the 
 game, you'll probably enjoy some of the online competition, but beyond that, Downhill Jam is a 
 real downer.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (20 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: Sk8more67
Rating: 4.5
Date: Aug 9, 2008 11:16 am PT
Review:  Now, people who live in San Francisco, or people who just like downhill skateboarding over regular 
 skateboarding would like this game, but I don't. To me it doesn't feel like a skateboarding game 
 should, and getting an online match without any Wi-Fi friend codes can be a frustrating mess. When 
 you start playing this game, you'll see a cutscene after training. Right when you do start playing 
 this game, you'll notice that the graphics haven't really improved from Tony Hawks American Sk8land, and 
 neither does the gameplay. It's still the basic controls. But, tricks are hard to double execute. Meaning 
 that you can't do a 360 flip, or a double kickflip. That's because in the game, they also want you 
 to hold tricks, by holding the buttons you used to execute the trick. Weird. Another problem is that 
 when they want you to do a trick in the desired area, you can't easily come back to it, because you're 
 going uphill. Sure, you can go to the pause menu and retry the goal, but sometimes it takes a while 
 to get back to the desired area. Another annoying part about these types of goals is that they tell 
 you where to go, but they don't highlight it or make it any easier to figure it out, so if you can't 
 figure out where to go, then you're screwed. A big problem with the Wi-Fi is if you try to play with 
 random people, then you're going to have to wait a literal hour just to find four people to play 
 with you. So, you better hope that you have people on your friends list or else you'll be waiting 
 forever. I've had some mixed reactions with this game, it's pretty cool, but right when something 
 cool could be placed, something completely different and stupid comes out of nowhere. I really wonder 
 if they frieken played this game before releasing it to the public. Well, I wouldn't buy this game 
 if I were you, because it's just not worth your time.
  
  -Sk8more67 
::::::

::::::
UserName: blink182plus44
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 20, 2008 3:33 pm PT
Review:  After nearly a decade of the same ol' grinding, manualling, flip-tricking skateboarding gameplay, 
 perhaps Tony Hawk needed a change of scenery for his next portable outing. While Neversoft focused 
 on reinventing the skating wheel for Tony on next-generation consoles, Vicarious Visions went in 
 a different direction for Nintendo DS gamers: downhill racing. And not just any sort of racing 
 either -- racing that requires the familiar grinding, manualling, flip-tricking skateboarding gameplay 
 that's been a part of the evolution of the core series. The combination of the two elements -- 
 tricking and racing -- melds together extremely well in this DS design, and even though the familiar 
 "explore anywhere" concept of the classic Tony Hawk design has been slightly rooted down into more 
 limited course layouts, this spinoff still retains the feel of the classic action game that's wrapped 
 around a core idea that works really well and is, ultimately, a hell of a lot of fun.
  
  Last year's release of Tony Hawk's American Sk8land was the first true 3D Tony Hawk game on a Nintendo 
 handheld -- Vicarious Visions has been working with the skateboarding property since the days of 
 the Game Boy, but the DS allowed the development team to finally work pretty much all of the Tony 
 Hawk design into a portable product. The game the team created for the DS last year -- a really 
 solid and original title rooted down into the original Neversoft concept -- is the foundation for 
 Tony Hawk's Downhill Jam. That same toon-shaded visual style and silky-smooth, speedy 3D engine's 
 at work in this new product, and even though Downhill Jam shares a lot, the two games are completely 
 different products. For Downhill Jam, the designers have constructed a product that's clearly inspired 
 by EA's SSX brand, which, let's be honest, was clearly inspired by the success of the "extreme" 
 Tony Hawk video game franchise.
  
  The core mechanic of Downhill Jam is racing. There are six different locations in the game that 
 players must progress through. Six course of racing action might not sound like a lot, and honestly 
 that was clearly the biggest turn-off to the product. But it's the enormousness of each course, 
 coupled with how the development team staggered its game progression across these six enormous 
 courses that surprised us. The game isn't just about getting to the finish line as fast as you 
 can. It's about getting there in style.
  
  At the start of the game you're faced with the first course: San Francisco. It's a perfect city 
 to really explore the whole concept of Downhill Jam: huge drop-offs, winding roads, tons of rails 
 and cables to grind off of. It's like the city was made for skateboarding, and the level designers 
 work a fantastic, but ultimately fictional downhill course that takes players down from Twin Peaks 
 all the way through downtown ending at the tourist trap in Fisherman's Wharf. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: DSgurl
Rating: 6.5
Date: Dec 26, 2007 1:58 pm PT
Review:  Downhill Jam was the 2nd appearance of the Tony Hawk series on the DS. The precedent game was Tony 
 Hawk's American Wasteland. I had mixed emotions after completing Downhill Jam for a number of reasons.
 
  
  The game opens up to San Francisco's curvy, volumous hills. I thought the graphics of the game 
 were done well, considering they captured international scenaries and terrains. However, once you 
 start playing the game, not much else changes from there.
  
  The gameplay is a constant in this game, in a bad way. Within each level, the goals are synonymous 
 and simple. There is no real challenge within the different levels, maybe besides beating your 
 opponents or gathering enough points, which aren't much.
  
  A few levels are very short, despite their illustration. Many levels could be skated in less than 
 two minutes, and the continuous downward slope left me with little ability to explore the area. 
 
  
  I expected much more from this game. I've been following the Tony Hawk series since Pro Skater 
 days, and I'm praying the series will finally get a decent DS game, which seems so in Proving Ground.
 
  
  Overall I am disappointed with this game. Although it is not horrible, and left me with a decent 
 amount of gameplay, it was simple and repetative. 
  
  
  One thing I might add, however, is that the soundtrack is pretty good! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Innocent_J
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 1, 2007 7:17 pm PT
Review:  While racing u feel like you're going pretty fast on a skateboard. Although there aren't alot of 
 moves, the racing alone will keep you interested. Its pretty easy to get boost so ull almost always 
 be pressing the boost button. Some may not like the game at first because its too easy.... but it 
 gets harder... although the game overall is pretty easy... i beat it in 2 days... n i didn even play 
 it that much. Wifi is pretty good... i recommend the game to racing and skating fans. The graphics 
 i thought were pretty good for the DS. Its the same as American Sk8land for the DS. If you liked 
 that game.... there is no reason u wudnt like this one. Get it 
::::::

::::::
UserName: siebe9
Rating: 8.7
Date: Jan 19, 2007 5:55 am PT
Review:  Tony hawk...... THIS IS WORTH BUYING YEA it is really cool graphics are really good and the gameplay 
 to the sound is very cool and very cool record your own (short) clips and hear it when you fall, do 
 a special trick, and if you bail (crash fall etc) am session is really cool i completed it really 
 fast world tour is really cool. Make your skater torsos pants boards... etc if you completed the 
 game the game is not boring!!! go to
  ds. downhill-jam. com and upload and download your pants logo''s scores etc. go on tournaments and 
 voice chat before i had the game i was asking can i do voice chat while playing wi-fi the answer 
 is yes you first have to add friends with ther friend codes and then voice chat will be enabled 
 well there are more thhings that you have to find out! this is all i have to say. Check this game 
 out!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Slimjiminat0r
Rating: 5.8
Date: Jan 14, 2007 8:30 pm PT
Review:  Fool me once, shame on you. Fool three or more times and I must be an idiot. Vicarious Visions, 
 stop ruining the games I love. Tony Hawk has been violated on the DSagainthis time in the form 
 of a downhill racing extravaganza. To explain this, the developers, Neversoft, that make the Tony 
 Hawk skateboarding games that most gamers have come to know and love, arent actually in charge 
 of every Tony Hawk game out there. There is another developer by the name of Vicarious Visions 
 that takes care of a lot of successful games follow-ups and spin-offs, games like Tony Hawk. In 
 this case, VV has been taking care of all the handheld iterations of the recent Tony Hawk games 
 and been doing a pretty good job of taking games that are easy to love and turning them into games 
 that are a chore to play. Downhill Jam is a perfect example of this because, simply, Tony Hawk 
 was never meant to be a racing game. Now I have always loved Tony Hawk games. You wouldnt be far 
 off the mark if called me an all-out Tony Hawk fanboy. I admit it. But as such, I can tell you 
 exactly what isnt Tony Hawk, and Downhill Jam is not Tony Hawk. Sure, his name goes before the 
 subtitle, he has some spoken lines in the game and you can still do kickflips, but the similarity 
 train stops there. For all you Tony Hawk veterans out there that remember the first game, do you 
 remember the sub-par level that was actually called Downhill Jam? The dam level? Yeah, thats 
 what this whole game is. Its not the golden formula of open-world skateboarding with side goals 
 thrown in, no, no. Its pretty much the SSX snowboarding games but on a skateboard, and it really 
 doesnt transfer over well. For one, the trick system just isnt conducive to the whole racing 
 bit: doing tricks actually slows you down, but you have to trick because its the only way to boost 
 up your new boost meter, a meter that basically does just that, allows you to boost to catch 
 up after tricking. Theres also problems with the way your combos work out namely, they dont. 
 The DS D-Pad just doesnt seem to be able to handle the quick input necessary to come out of your 
 360 airwalk and into your nose manual. Its really the manuals that are the issue because you need 
 them to keep your combos together, and the DS only registers the input for them maybe every second 
 attempt.
  
  The whole thing is packaged pretty oddly, too. The cutscenes and all the in-game art have this 
 weird, kiddy, Fisher Price look to them that really kills the long running cool credit the series 
 has established. The sound is also a hit and miss affair. Tony Hawk still cant voice actno surprisebut 
 at least there is real voice acting in the first place. The music is appropriately energetic but 
 still manages to be really boring since there are only about ten no-name tracks in the game anyways, 
 and you can really only listen to them so many times until you start playing with the volume off. 
 Oh, and youll also want the volume off so you can avoid hearing your skater tell you that he got 
 owned over and over after every time you make a sloppy landing.
  
  Put this all together with fugly graphics (muddy textures and really stiff animation) and a storyline 
 thats bad even for a Tony Hawk game and youve got yourself a real waste of thirty dollars. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Gam_er3
Rating: 8.4
Date: Jan 3, 2007 9:46 am PT
Review:  I thought that the Gamespot review of this game was unfair and made it out to be a cheap rip of 
 SSX. This is not the case. The games graphics are great in the cel-shaed style and give just enough 
 detail to give a rounde picture. It also runs at a smooth rate with no faults, even when the racing 
 becomes frantic.
  
  The great thing about this game is it packs the great tricks of normal tony Hawk's into a racer. 
 the challenges are fun and there is alot more do than race. Although the game is not as fun when 
 performing tricks beacuse it goes so fast. However plent of boost an ollie and a ramp can result 
 in massive enabling you to pull or much more spectacular tricks than in sk8land.
  
  The value of this game is massive with six MASSIVE locations quick races, free skate, tutorials 
 and a mode in which you beat your best scores, this all packs a good replay value and with added 
 single card play and online you could be playing this game for years. On top of thsi the soundtrack 
 and effeccts are great. Although the gameplay is to frantic to enjoy as much as other Hawks and 
 some of the challenges are shallow, easy and short, there is enough value and great customization 
 to make this a great overall experience. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tman90
Rating: 9.8
Date: Jan 28, 2007 1:42 pm PT
Review:  Pros:
  Great Gameplay
  Good Graphics
  Great Level Design
  Huge Levels
  Amazing Create-a-Skater Ok Soundtrack
  Custom Sounds
  Great Online
  Online Community is Great
 
  
  Cons:
  Short Story
  Soundtrack Could Be Better
  
  Tony Hawk's Downhill Jam for the Nintendo DS is a very good game.
  The gameplay is very good. 
 (name a Tony Hawk game that it isn't) It feels like the console games. World Tour (Story Mode) 
 is good but, its very short. I got threw it in about 3 hours. There is a Jam Session mode that 
 is like Classic Mode in past games. The level design is very good and the levels are huge. The 
 Create-a-Skater feature in this game is amazing. (apart from the head) You are able to make your 
 own shirts, pants, and skateboards by drawing them with the stylus. The graphics are very impressive. 
 The soundtrack in the game is good. (not great) there is songs from Motorhead and Damone which 
 is always good. You can create your own special, gap, and bail sounds. You are able to play the 
 game via Nintendo's WiFi Connection and with the DS's wireless functionality (you need two game 
 cards) Wifi is amazing and your able to play many game types online. Games like race, score, and 
 style. (there are many more) The game's online community is great (go to http://ds. downhill-jam. com/) 
 Your able to download new shirts, pants, and skateboards from other people! You are also able to 
 download new goals that update about every week. Tony Hawk's Downhill Jam. is a superb game that 
 if you a fan of the series and you own a DS you need to pick up. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: darrowby88
Rating: 9.8
Date: Dec 17, 2006 12:56 pm PT
Review:  For me, if you've read any of my other reviews, I am very retro.
  Mario Bros/Duck hunt was the best mario
  1st Person shooters can only be played in DOS
  And 
 Tony hawk Pro Skater 2 was by far a franchise best.
  
  Activision knew that using the same trick... ramp... manual.... they werent going to breathe new 
 life into the series, but i believe that this game does just that... and tony needed a respirator 
 after Underground 2.
  
  while the traditional mechanics have remained, they are applied in a whole new way. you still  
 it is done in a race. this may seem confining but the game really does give you the same opportunities 
 to trick and find gaps and skate, while racing.
  
  Great Game Gameplay: Same tony, just slanted downward Graphics: Silky smooth cell shading Sound: 
 Exactly what you need... grind, bail, land, etc Value: Downloadable goals and multiplayer can keep 
 a player coming back Tilt: If you buy it, we can play wifi 4 e 
::::::

::::::
UserName: crunchie1988
Rating: 6.2
Date: Dec 12, 2006 9:00 am PT
Review:  This game is not like any of the other tony hawks games. its one of those games that is really 
 good for the first few days of you playing it and then it gets real boring and will be hidden away 
 for a long period of time. once you have completed it once theres not much change when going though 
 the game again. Some good aspects of the game is that you have the ability to snowboard in the 
 snowy areas and Mountain board in the more rocky areas.
  
  There is a large community to the multi player side of things for Tony Hawks Downhill jam. you 
 have the ability to join skate crews and take upon challenges that get set each week by the THDHJ 
 team. all the scores and times are uploaded to the Tony Hawks downhill jam website so it allows 
 you to get a feel for your scores against other players. Overall i rate this game a 6 :) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: yo_foo
Rating: 1.6
Date: Nov 30, 2006 9:47 pm PT
Review:  WARNING: Those expecting a trick filled Tony Hawk game need to look away. Those who a looking for 
 a racing game on skateboards then proceed if you dare.
  
  Essentially it's a boring game. You know those old downhill levels from Tony Hawk Skateboarding? 
 Well picture that downhill level only in this game it's every level. Picture SSX or Snowboarding 
 games on your mobile phone. You go downhill with poor graphics, and you have to beat AI skaters 
 to get into Tony Hawk's downhill racing team. The tricks don't adapt well to the game at all and 
 it fails on almost every account.
  
  Now the graphics are what you would expect from a mobile phone, not the Nintendo DS. The game looks 
 terribly pixelated and terribly unkind to the eyes. The skater can be hard to see by adults with 
 poor eyesight and this limits the lastability of the game. Cel shaded graphics just don't cut it 
 in games like this.
  
  The sound is terrible but what do you really expect for a handheld game?
  
  Overall the game 
 may appeal to hardcore TH fans, however those who know that THS series has gone downhill (much 
 like this game) should steer clear from this deadly obstacle and it could indeed save themselves 
 $50 AUS. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: JellyJake
Rating: 7.7
Date: Nov 24, 2006 11:04 am PT
Review:  Its Tony Hawks... yet it plays and feels like 1080 or Ampled- Forget this is a skateboarding game 
 and view it as what it is and you find yourself with a SWEET snowboarding game. hell it neary tells 
 you it is a snowboarding game with the snow-skate levels. The game is worth the price, but really 
 its not a real Tony Hawks game, it tries to feel like on but it just doesn't feel like TH- which 
 WILL upset some people. Take in to acount the 2-4 player online multiplayer with added online match 
 voice chat for friends it makes to one great game! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: -DDR_Ninja-
Rating: 8.4
Date: Nov 24, 2006 10:35 am PT
Review:  This game is definitly a good buy. You skate through many levels racing other people and playing 
 games. Though you can't explore levels, it's still fun and really amazing. You customize and design 
 your characters outfits and skateboards. Feature of the game include: The Tour: kind of like Story 
 mode or Career on the other Tony Hawk games
  Free Play: roam the levels finding shortcuts and good lines
  Wi-Fi Connection: play against other 
 players in races and best score runs
  
  Anyways, overall, I give this game an 8.4/10. I just bought it yesterday, and already I can't get 
 enough of it. Buy this game. Buy it now.
  
  xXx -DDR Ninja- xXx 
::::::

::::::
UserName: martixman921
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 18, 2006 4:02 pm PT
Review:  This game at first to me seemed a bit dull but i brought it because it has wifi and every game 
 i have brought on the ds with wifi has been so awesome and this one doesn't seem to disapoint it 
 has a great soundtrack awesome wifi just not very many people play it awesome gameplay it is a 
 bit tricky at first with the boost controls and everything i was a bit annoyed at first on how 
 to control it but i suppose that is because i have thug 2 remix on the psp but it is still fun 
 as hell the story line is good heaps of modes and it will last a long time because i dont know 
 about you but i am gonna spent a heap of time getting those nice lines and specails in and becoming 
 the best!
  
  This game is no masterpeice but for the ds and what it can do is pretty amazing i love it and there 
 is no doubt everyone esle should get this game because it ROCKS 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sacif
Rating: 4
Date: Nov 13, 2006 9:29 pm PT
Review:  This game is not worth the wrapping it came in. The graphics are horrible, and when I didn't read 
 the previews, I gave my self the suspicion that this was a regular TH game and not a down hill 
 racer. I kicked myself and went ahead and gave the game a try. The clunky controls and the pitiful 
 story shows that this game was crapped out to sell a name.
  
  The little time that I spent playing this garbage is little to none, I want to try and re wrap 
 the damned thing up and try and take it back to target.
  
  Thank you Tony Hawk for producing crap on an INCREDIBLY popular handheld. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: -SiiLeNCE-
Rating: 8
Date: Nov 5, 2006 5:17 pm PT
Review:  Ready for a change of pace with crazy sound and an awesome presentation? Want an SSX rip-off? Ta-daa!
 
  
  The graphics in Tony Hawk's Downhill Jam are quite simply excellent. A lot of the levels have lots 
 of interesting city backgrounds, overhang, and the cartoony visual style really adds to the overall 
 vibe to make it extremely appealing. The menus are also an amazing improvement, building on the 
 laid-back scribbly graffiti style as well. In addition to this, the trick and character animations 
 have all been taken up a few notches, and the camera and frame-rate are all rock-solid. The sound 
 is a much better improvement as well. There's actually songs worth listening to, the number of 
 them has increased, the sound effects have been slightly tewaked, and the voices are on par with 
 Sk8land (which were also excellent to begin with) . Overall, an outstanding presentation with a 
 much better soundtrack.
  
  The gameplay has also been tweaked, with some points for the better and some points for the worse. 
 For the negative points, you can no longer perform reverts or graffiti tags, and the number of 
 manuals you can perform have dramatically decreased, which were all pretty much unneccisary. However, 
 the double and triple tap moves have been improved, since you can now simply hold down the button 
 to keep the board spinning. Also, the Bert Slides have been made easier to perform, and spinning 
 and rotating seems more fluid.
  
  The whole idea with Downhill Jam is to break away from the free-roam environments and thrash you 
 down a steep incline like in SSX while going over 60 mph, and to execute it all while rockin' out 
 and staying funky; and it manages to succeed as a whole, and the game is a blast to play to boot. 
 But it's pretty obvious of it's influences, since a lot of the special tricks are incredibly similar 
 to SSX's Uber Tricks, and the levels are designed in much the same fashion; not that those are 
 both neccesarily bad things.
  
  The bottom line is that this game is a blast to play, and it is only enhanced by the incredibly 
 deep and engaging multi-player options, both online and local. The board and character designing, 
 character animations, audio, and menus are all an excellent improvement over it's predecessor, 
 and the cutscenes are also pretty cool. But although they are fairly large, there are only 6 tracks 
 to race down, which was kind-of a downer, since they could get stale fairly quickly if you play 
 it religiously like me. If you really loved Sk8land, you'll love this game even more, but you won't 
 play Sk8land as much anymore, since they're both fairly similar in some respects. Overall, a great 
 game; not as bad as everyone may say it is, GAMESPOT! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: wikkedclown17
Rating: 9.2
Date: Nov 3, 2006 10:00 am PT
Review:  Tony Hawk's Downhill Jam improves in every way possible. It takes American Sk8land's gameplay and 
 immensely builds onto it. This game is fun, immersive and easy to pick up and play. Although the 
 graphics are still cell shaded, theres a vast improvement in graphics. The levels are long, fun 
 and practical for the game. The special tricks are reminiscent of the good ole' SSX series. And 
 the airtime you can catch is insane. For being on such a small screen, the game does a really good 
 job of making you think you're there. Once you've beaten the game, there's still the matter of 
 Wi-Fi play to attend to. Theres always downloadable goals (like in american sk8land) and plenty 
 of online gameplay modes with up to 4 players. And lets not forget the voice chat. Metroid DS did 
 it pre and post-game; tony hawk's downhill does it IN game. yep, that's right. Send your added 
 friends and rivals five second bursts of chat in-game. If all that isn't enough to make you wet 
 in the pants, than I truly pitty you. If you have a DS, give some serious thought to coughing up 
 $35 bucks for this solid installment in the ever growing tony hawk series. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Elementguy13
Rating: 9.4
Date: Oct 29, 2006 7:56 am PT
Review:  Tony Hawks Downhill Jam for DS has to be one of the funnest ds games I have ever played and I have 
 many. The game has great graphics, still screens dont do the game justice. But when your playing 
 the game is like wow this is amazing. The levels have lots of things going on in them. When I say 
 lots I mean LOTS. The levels are modeled after real world places including: san fransisco, edinburgh, 
 kilimanjaro, hong kong, rio, and hoover dam. Each level has real monuments from the real citys 
 which make the game that much more immersive and realistic. And adding on to that the levels are 
 pretty long so theres lots of these great visuals to see.
  
  The soundtrack for this game is awesome. Full songs no cuts! Unlike the last game! There are 15 
 tracks all are awesome! NO I LIKE DIRT! Yiipppppiieee! And there is full character voice acting 
 too! Great quality.
  
  The gameplay is really fun. Great story line, nothing amazing but it eases on you when you play 
 on. Really fun.
  
  THIS GAME IS SO MUCH FUN! You wont want to put it down. I was in my room last night playing for 
 4 hours straight! I never do that with video games. In american sk8land I played for just an hour 
 at a time and I even loved that game! That says something dosnt it.
  
  If you like tony hawks and ssx. You will be in heaven as you will have BOTH in a handheld game. 
 There is even a snowboarding course! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bansheerpg
Rating: 8.7
Date: Oct 28, 2006 4:26 pm PT
Review:  What makes TonyHawk DownHill Jam a succes is evident: it's his concept.
  For the first time in the whole TonyHawk series, they really went far with a game.
  
  GamePlay:
 
  TonyHawk DownHill Jam offers a wide range of game modes: from freeskate, to story mode, and even 
 old-school ( check TonyHawk 1-3) !
  While playing the game, the graphics and sound combined togheter makes you feel the speed and the 
 adrenaline rush. Fortunately, the controls are very simple and easy to reach.
  StoryMode:
  The story is not really new: build a crew to proove some radom and useless person you're the best. 
 Still, it grows on you. Right from the beginning, you get to create you cell-shaded character. 
 There is a wide variety of items and skins to use. You can even create new skins to personalyse 
 you character. Then, you can asist a nice 2D cinematic featuring Tony Hawk.
  The goal of the story mode is the following:
  You have to access special events and win two of 
 them. To access a special event, you must win three challenges. After winning every special event, 
 you get three stat points you can attribute where you want: Air, Speed, Tricks, and Balance.
  When you win two challenges, you get a new skater in your team. Every unlocked skater can be used 
 in the story mode or in any other game mode.
  Has you win events and discover new gaps, you will get more money.
  With this money, you can 
 buy outfits, logos, or cheats, once you have beatten the story mode.
  DownHill Jam Session:
  In this mode, you get to play in a area of your choice with a character 
 of your choice. You have two minutes to complete a serie of goals.
  The other way to call this mode is: old-school.
  QuickRace:
  In this mode. choose your character 
 and area and a race versus radom opponents will start.
  FreeSkate:
  In this mode, you can skate freely in an area of your choice, with a character of your choice.
 
  Note:
  I haven't tried multiplayer mode yet.
  
  Graphics:
  Very nice cell-shaded grahics with stunning shapes make the game's world very immersive. Also some 
 awsome visual effects make you feel he speed.
  
  Sound:
  A huge and diversified sound track of great quality adds a lot to the gaming experience. Also, 
 some very nice sound effects and some awsome voice acting are very satisfying.
  You can also record your own sound effects to add to your created skater's voice.
  
  Conclusion:
 
  TonyHawk DownHill Jam is a very cool DS game and is probanly one of the best ones.
  If you have a DS and like racing games, look for it, it's worth it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: zhenyu21
Rating: 8.7
Date: Jan 25, 2007 7:58 am PT
Review:  Gameplay:
  The mechanics are largely unchanged from American Sk8land. There is no revert, spine transfers 
 &amp; lips, instead the L and R are mapped to the bert slides, (done with left + L (right + R) 
 on American Sk8land) . A timer now runs between combos, kind of the off-the-board timers from the 
 console versions. The boost button is mapped to the flip button. The skaters are cleverly marked 
 by SSX style opponent markers. More tricks are added, the worm comes to mind.
  
  Graphics:
  The engine from American Sk8land is still there, albeit running faster. The sense 
 of speed is very nicely done. Framerate holds up 99%, it stutters only when there are more than 
 3 characters on screen (when up-close only) . The character models are noticeably lower polygon 
 count than that of Sk8land. The levels are varied, even though there are only 6 levels, they're 
 pretty big. Its hard to compare with Sk8land since its more like tracks than open-level. Each race 
 from top to bottom will take around 2-5 minutes.
  
  Sound:
  They managed to squeeze more tracks into that tiny cart. More characters have voice-overs in the 
 game. All the sounds that you've heard before in any Tony Hawk game, is still there. My take:
 
  THDJ is the best Nintendo Wifi experiences you will ever have right now. Head-to-head works fine 
 for me, and 20 multiplayer modes are so awesome. Still no download play support though. Sk8land's 
 customization features have been expanded to torsos and pants (aside from the deck and graffiti 
 editors)
  One thing to note though, this game will be awfully familiar for people who play SSX series, aside 
 from the snow. There is even a snow level thrown in for good measure.
  
  The Tony Hawk system started with some downhill levels, and it still holds up well. Those who hate 
 downhill levels from past Tony Hawk games should avoid this game. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
