-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Top Gun
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/ds/action/topgun/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 Harold Faltermeyer's &quot;Top Gun Anthem&quot; plays in the menu screen.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 Ugly graphics with muddy textures and underwhelming explosions.
 Repetitive, annoying voice work.
 Mind-numbingly dull and poorly designed gameplay.
 No discernible control difference between the three aircrafts.
 No &quot;Danger Zone&quot; from Kenny Loggins.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: May 17, 2006
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 3.6
Critic Score: 4.8, 9 Review (s)
User Score: 5.0, 91 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Mastiff
Developer: InterActive Vision
Genre: Jet Sim
Date: May 3, 2006
ESRB: Everyone 10+

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Much like Slider in the movie upon which this air combat game is based, Top Gun for the DS does, 
 in fact, stink. 

  Air combat games for consoles and handhelds are often a hit-or-miss affair. Some games, like Ace 
 Combat, are quite good and bring the thrill of fighter combat across in the game without all the 
 minutiae of hardcore flight combat sims on the PC. Many of the games in the genre leave a lot to 
 be desired, though, and Top Gun for the DS is a prime example. Top Gun's poor presentation and 
 dull, sometimes cheap design make it a game that never should have gotten off the ground in the 
 first place.  

          Yes, it's a flight combat game that's actually based on the movie.     

  First of all, 
 it's quite odd that 20 years after  Top Gun  sent Tom Cruise into superstardom, someone would choose 
 to make a game based on the film. No, the title of the game is not a coincidence, as you'll discover 
 when Harold Faltermeyer's "Top Gun Anthem" starts playing when you boot up the game. Sadly, that's 
 pretty much the highlight of the game. After you choose which of four characters you want to play 
 as, from Maverick, Iceman, Jester, and the lovable Slider, you can embark on the game's 11 mission 
 campaigns, which will take you from flight training school right into combat against MiG fighters, 
 warships, surface-to-air missile launchers, tanks, and more. It turns out that it doesn't make 
 much difference which pilot you choose, as the game plays out the same each way.  

  Over the course of the campaign you'll unlock three different fighters, which include the F-14 
 Tomcat featured in the film, as well as the F-16 Fighting Falcon (which is an odd choice as it's 
 not a Navy plane) , and the F/A-18 Hornet. These all seem to have the proper shape and silhouette, 
 with the Tomcat exhibiting its swing-wing design where the wings sweep back as you increase speed, 
 and swing out at lower speeds. The unfortunate problem is that all the jets still look quite ugly, 
 with muddy-looking textures. Other than the obvious cosmetic differences, there's little else that 
 separates the planes, other than slightly different amounts of missiles that the three jets can 
 carry.  

  The flight model in Top Gun is very simple. You use the D pad to climb, dive, or bank. The X and 
 Y buttons control the throttle, B locks and fires your guided missiles, A shoots the Vulcan cannon 
 (which never runs out of bullets) , R cycles between your available targets, and the L button fires 
 your unguided rockets. There's a so-called "flight-sim" control model available, but it doesn't 
 appreciably change the way the plane is controlled. There are no real complicated moves you can 
 pull off, so forget about Immelmann turns or even simple loops -- pulling back on the stick awkwardly 
 and automatically flips your aircraft over after you've reached the apex of your climb, which looks 
 and feels disorienting, mostly because the game's graphics are so poor at rendering terrain or 
 cloud cover that you never get a good sense of speed, or much of a reference to discern the direction 
 you're flying in, other than the primitive radar on the bottom screen. If you need to change direction, 
 you're generally better off just making a wide turn.  

  The actual flying in Top Gun feels extremely arcadelike, similar to something like the classic 
 Afterburner games or even the original Top Gun on the NES. Unlike those games, Top Gun for the 
 DS is not set on rails -- you have freedom to fly within a designated combat area. Your plane can 
 also carry dozens of each type of missile, which is unrealistic, but given the number of enemies 
 you'll take on by yourself or with just one or two wingmen to help you, you'll need all the ordnance 
 you can get.  

  After the first two training missions, the combat in Top Gun gets repetitive quickly. You're given 
 objectives before and during the course of the mission, such as taking out some enemy ships that 
 are attacking your aircraft carrier, all while fending off MiGs that are circling overhead. Other 
 missions will have you winding through canyons or taking out ground targets around some oil fields. 
 One of the biggest problems with the game is that it will sometimes resort to cheap tactics in 
 order to artificially increase the difficulty of a mission. The computer, for example, may spawn 
 an infinite number of fighters to harass you while you try and take out ground targets. Instead 
 of allowing you to do the sensible thing, which would be to eliminate all air cover so you can 
 bomb the ground targets safely, Top Gun often eliminates this strategic choice with its cheap design. 

          Top Gun's lousy graphics should be your first warning to avoid buying the game.     

 
  This might not have been such a bad thing if the basic combat in Top Gun was any good. But ground 
 attacks are much like shooting fish in a barrel, and air combat isn't much better, as it basically 
 boils down to pointing your screen at an enemy plane, getting a lock-on, and firing a guided missile. 
 If you shoot from too far away, the computer-controlled fighters can break missile lock, but when 
 you find the magic range at which to fire your missiles, they pretty much always hit for a one-shot 
 kill. Taking out enemy targets isn't at all satisfying, either, as the "explosions" in the game 
 consist of the targets disappearing in a thin puff of smoke. The rest of the graphics in the game, 
 including ground textures and object models, are about as ugly and underwhelming as the explosions. 
 There isn't much salvation to find in the sound, either, as a couple songs play during the missions; 
 and the voice acting in the game is terrible, mixed poorly, and repetitive. After about the 200th 
 time your character yells "He's got a lock on me!" you'll need to lower the volume or fight the 
 urge to throw your DS through the nearest window.  

  Beyond the campaign mode, there's a single-mission mode that includes all the campaign missions 
 and a couple of bonus missions. There's also four-player multiplayer that lets you dogfight with 
 a few of your friends. You don't get the full array of aircraft choices if you choose to go with 
 single-card sharing, but not to worry -- the game's not very fun or compelling in multiplayer either, 
 so you're not missing out on much.  

  There's really little redeeming value to Top Gun, with its boring gameplay and lackluster presentation. 
 The developer didn't even really make use of the Top Gun license, other than using the names of 
 the movie characters as selectable pilots and taking just one song from the soundtrack. Sorry, 
 Ghostrider, but permission to fly by our DS is denied -- the pattern is full.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (4 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: Edmen_Tam
Rating: 8.7
Date: Oct 31, 2006 4:25 am PT
Review:  great game, but still trying to unlock the secret mission and the f-117 aircraft. GREAT graphics 
 tough there is no cities to roam around. one problem, it has no replay value. eventough that, its 
 still a great fun to play. wished it had online play like starfox. the enviroment is not muddy or 
 whatever at all. but i gotta admit, flying in mission 2 was SLOW. is there really a possibility 
 to get full stars on all the missions? am still waiting for an ace combat game for the ds. pls, 
 gamespot, am a great fan, but pls have mercy to games. P. S: the nintendo ds lite ROCKS!!!! nintendo 
 RULES FOREVER!!!!
  
  DOWN WITH SONY!!! HAIL NINTENDO 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DLB2
Rating: 7.2
Date: Jun 7, 2006 8:44 am PT
Review:  Movie-to-game translations aren't exactly a favorite of mine. But the DS is sorely lacking in a 
 flight title. Sure, there's Star Fox on the way, but a sci-fi world and an F-14 are two very different 
 things. As far as Top Gun goes, the presentation is a bit sloppy, but there is a good game underneath 
 it all. 
  
  I'll get the negative out of the way. There is occassional slowdown and background flickering. 
 It's fairly rare but still annoying when it happens. The game saves your options when you start 
 a save file but won't update them beyond that if you change anything, and when you load a file 
 and return to the options, the settings are commonly wrong (even though they are correct in gameplay) . 
 There's no excuse for those kinds of bugs. Finally, try and forget that there is a Top Gun movie, 
 because this game was apparantly designed by people who did just that. The dialogue tries to include 
 a few catch-phrases, but it seems more like they went down a list and less like they actually have 
 a grip on the spirit of the movie. Oh yeah, and there is a touch-menu, but the icons give no visual 
 cue when they're pressed. I often times find myself moving to make a second tap thinking that the 
 game didn't register my first one. 
  
  Okay, so it needs more debugging and the dialogue is crummy. But who plays a flight game for the 
 story, anyway? The flight speed is blistering, when you want it to anyway, and that's what helps 
 make the game enjoyable. 3 weapons at your disposal at all times. Ammo on rockets/missiles is limited 
 but still plentiful, and control is solid (touch-screen is used minimally) . The ground can be a 
 little lacking in detail and ground targets seem to just disappear in a puff of smoke, but outside 
 of that the graphics are oustanding. The jet models are well detailed, the backdrops are beautiful, 
 rocket trails vary in visibility depending on the environment, and blowing up an enemy jet will 
 light up the night sky. 
  
  The first one or two missions may seem a bit mediocre. But once you've gotten a taste of real dogfighting, 
 you're hooked. The missions are decent in length and cover a surprisingly wide variety of situations. 
 High altitude, low altitude, air-to-air, air-to-ground, air-to-sea, reconnaisance, solo, wingmen, 
 protection, escorts, sneak attacks, and even a high-speed retreat from a buttload of anti-air fire. 
 It's all there. And on top of that, the game includes several "Free Mode" arenas where you can 
 just dance with the enemies for as long as you want. 
  
  The game could have used some sprucing up in the music department, though. When is some developer 
 going to come to their senses and get the rights to use Danger Zone and Mighty Wings along with 
 the Top Gun license? None of that here, the title theme is the only thing you'll hear from the 
 movie. For the missions there are only 3 music tracks, 1 of which is exclusive to the training 
 mission. They are fitting enough, but still, it could have been better. 
  
  One vital option you need to be aware of is the steering style. There's "arcade" and "flight sim." 
 The arcade style uses the D-pad to steer left and right as you'd expect. It's simple, but maybe 
 a little too simple. The Flight Sim style uses left and right on the D-pad to roll the plane, and 
 you must roll and raise the nose to turn. The game uses the arcade style by default, so if you 
 feel it's too easy or simplistic, try the Flight Sim style. It has a higher learning curve, but 
 it adds a much-needed level of complexity and allows you to pull a few wild maneuvers that are 
 not possible in the default Arcade style. 
  
  Overall, Top Gun has its bugs and may not be totally authentic, but it's an enjoyable high-speed 
 experience that caters to a wide range of skill levels, and is worth the $30 admission if you have 
 a jet itch that needs scratching. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kdawg24
Rating: 9.4
Date: May 13, 2006 6:45 pm PT
Review:  Heres my review of top gun for the ds
  
  Gamplay: very good easy to use controls and very easy to jump right into
  
  Graphics: Damn 
 good for the ds they are very smooth and your plane actually looks and handles like a plane.
  
  Sound: awesome sound they made the original top gun theme play during the game and it makes 
 you thik your back in 1988 again
  
  value: 29.99 is a reat deal for tis game its got a pretty legnthy campaign and a free flight mode 
 and also extra content to unlock.
  
  closing thoughts: this game is worth every penny great graphics incredible sound and easy gamplay 
 and hey its top gun. so if you see this game and your thinking about getting it dont think just 
 by and dont forget tom cruise is not included oh yeh leave blades of thunder on the shelf to colect 
 dust and by this instead. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: RDW101
Rating: 8.4
Date: May 6, 2006 1:17 pm PT
Review:  I've only got about an hour on it but, compared to BLADES OF THUNDER II, this one leaves it in 
 the dust. The scenery is awesome and REAL. The challenge is certainly there. It's easy to learn 
 but, the difficulty builds as you get through the training phase. Which, by the way, is very appropriate. 
 I'm not a hard core gamer and like to be able to pick up a new title and have it get me started 
 in the right direction instead of just frustrating me and dumping me out in the cold. I think, 
 TOP GUN gets it done. A realistic fighter sim, well, it's not bad. The canyon flying is a little 
 slow but, flying below the canyon walls is not a recommended maneuver in a real jet anyways.... 
 I think if you're looking for something FUN to pick up and play with for a few minutes or an hour, 
 this could be a great choice it you're into flying. They really didn't implement the touch screen 
 for more than 1st/3rd person perspective. Thats a shame, but the D pad is as you'd expect, predictable. 
 For $29.99, this one gets my nod. I'm glad I own one of the 1st copies on the street. I'll be back 
 to add more comments about my experience with this game later! Have fun! 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
