-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Top Spin 2
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/ds/sports/topspin2/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 Actual professional players.
 Shot system allows pinpoint control over every aspect of shot taking.
 Gradually grow a custom character in the career mode.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 Completely unplayable due to a horrid frame rate that makes the ball impossible to follow.
 Jerky animation is a pain to watch.
 More minigames would've been appreciated.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Apr 12, 2006
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 2.9
Critic Score: 5.6, 7 Review (s)
User Score: 5.2, 152 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: 2K Sports
Genre: Tennis
Date: Mar 29, 2006
ESRB: Everyone

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Top Spin 2 for the DS offers a good player roster and a deep shot system, but the choppy graphics 
 render the game unplayable. 

  Top Spin 2 for the Nintendo DS would keep most tennis fans satisfied for weeks, if only the herky-jerky 
 graphics didn't render the game completely unplayable. The game's better aspects, such as its diverse 
 player roster and deep shot system, aren't enough to compensate for a jumpy frame rate that makes 
 it impossible to see and follow the ball.  

          Top Spin 2 puts real tennis pros, like Roger Federer and Maria Sharapova, under your control. 
     

  Roger Federer and Maria Sharapova headline a roster that includes 16 actual male and female tennis 
 pros. Ten different court locations are available, including a few real-world venues from tournaments 
 such as Wimbledon, the US Open, and the Australian Open. Exhibition play can be waged against the 
 CPU or you can compete against a friend wirelessly using two DS systems and two game cards. The 
 other single-player modes are tournament and career. Career mode is set up like the similar modes 
 found in other tennis games, where players create their own custom tennis phenom and gradually 
 upgrade their skills by playing minigames and participating in tournaments.  

  Similar to the game's console counterparts, the controls and shot system in the DS version are 
 easy to learn and layered with depth. The directional pad is used to control player movement, while 
 the system buttons are used to input the various shot types. The touch screen is used only to navigate 
 menus and rotate the world map in the career mode. Each of six different shot types is keyed to 
 its own button on the unit. At the touch of a button, you can compel your onscreen persona to serve 
 or return a flat, topspin, slice, lob, smash, or drop shot. In most cases, during the split-second 
 that your player is winding up for his or her shot, you can hold the button longer to make a more 
 powerful shot and use the D pad to target the shot toward a specific spot on the court. Whether 
 a swing is a forehand or a backhand depends on which hand your player holds the racket in and which 
 direction his or her body is facing relative to the ball. Righties, for example, will perform a 
 forehand shot when the ball is to their right and a backhand shot when the ball is to their left. 
 Control response is generally very quick, although you do have to make sure to let up on the button 
 when you actually want your player to swing the racket. All in all, the shot system is easy to 
 get the hang of and provides a great deal of control over the speed, arc, and placement of shots. 

  Four minigames in the career mode let you master the nuances of the shot system while upgrading 
 your custom player's skills. Serve Sniper challenges you to hit targets on the opposite side of 
 the net. Inflatable Carnage tests your ability to pop inflated targets with power shots. Shot Sequence 
 is a Simon-style game where you have to hit sections on the other side of the net in the order 
 shown. The last minigame, Tic Tac Toe, is a tennis-themed variation of the classic pen-and-paper 
 game. Although other tennis video games typically offer a larger selection of minigames, the relative 
 lack of selection here isn't a major shortfall because each game is conceptualized so well.  

 
  Sadly, all of the game's good aspects are made moot by the choppy graphical frame rate. The players 
 don't return shots gracefully. Instead, they move in jerks, like some club kid performing the robot. 
 The ball doesn't sail smoothly over the net. Instead, it literally disappears from one side of 
 the net and reappears on the other side about halfway to the service line. Since the ball can't 
 be seen until the last moment, it's impossible to track the ball's trajectory, which means you 
 won't have time to move your player into position to make a return shot, let alone adjust the power 
 and aim of the swing. Thus, the game is completely unplayable.  

          The choppy frame rate makes it impossible to track the ball, which pretty much means the 
 game is unplayable.     

  It's a shame that the frame rate is so bogus, because the remainder of the presentation is at least 
 somewhat up to the task of portraying the sights and sounds that people expect from a tennis video 
 game. The audio won't win any awards for artistry or variety, but the combination of realistic 
 sound effects, recorded player grunts, and cheesy elevator music does back up the action relatively 
 well. Visually, the graphics are somewhere between the Nintendo 64 and PlayStation in terms of 
 quality, which is in line with what we've come to expect from the DS hardware. Player bodies are 
 large and sufficiently detailed, and they look very much like actual people thanks to a relatively 
 high polygon count and a believable implementation of shadow effects. The courts are necessarily 
 plain, but the crisp graphics and behind-the-back camera perspective provide an ample sense of 
 depth and place. In addition to the various court surfaces, prematch fly-bys help establish the 
 setting by showing a 360-degree view of the venue and the spectators within. Even though spectators 
 are immobile low-poly blobs, the overall appearance of the crowd suffices because they're only 
 visible off in the distance during matches. Replays and reaction shots are infrequent, but they're 
 nice to see when they occur.  

  In the end, unfortunately, the most important thing to keep in mind about Top Spin 2 for the Nintendo 
 DS is that the jumpy frame rate makes it impossible to play the game for more than 30 seconds without 
 inspiring the urge to smash the system into bits and pieces.  

      
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (13 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: cjdillow
Rating: 5
Date: Jan 27, 2009 3:42 am PT
Review:  I picked this game up expecting well not much and that is exactly what I got from this game. The 
 gameplay is not all that good because all you have to do to hit the ball is hold down A. The serving 
 is okwith aiming of shot and choice of power to hit the ball with. 
  
  Considering it is a DS game the graphics were, well not bad but not excellent. The storyline is 
 well thought out with you starting at a training camp and then working your way up to the masters 
 and playing Federer. One problem which if solve could have changed the face of the game was the 
 level of difficulty as on hard I finished the game easily and undeafeted. Unless I am some pro 
 at tennis games it was way, way to easy. Bottomline is don't get it for more than $5. It can however 
 grow on you especially on long trips. Perhaps rent it first. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rockafella888
Rating: 4
Date: Jun 15, 2008 5:38 am PT
Review:  Top Spin 2 is a game lacking any major element to make it attractive to customers.. Graphics are 
 very poor and blocky which makes the highly innovative gameplay go to waste. The gameplay offering 
 multiple varieties of shots is very fun with different types and styles. No sylus use is incorporated, 
 a good thing judging by Rafa Nadal Tennis. Finally, there are very few game modes which make it 
 a quick and easy enough game since there are only 2 or 3 but the tour mode lasts long enough to 
 keep you busy for a week or two. The game does not provide enough for its value, lacking enough 
 development depth for my 30$. Also, player choices are poor since there merely over a dozen pros 
 to choose from and venues are also a bore, with croud sound boring and repetitive. . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pawel_9
Rating: 8
Date: Mar 13, 2008 2:35 pm PT
Review:  I don't know why gamespot gave it a 2.9/10 but I gave it a 8/10. This game is awesome.
  
  Gameplay: This game plays perfect. Every button, A, B, X, Y, does a different shot, the R and L 
 buttons are used as top spin shots and the game just runs smoothly.
  
  Graphics: The graphics are one of the best I've ever seen in a DS game.
  
  Carrear Mode: In 
 Carrear Mode you create a tennis player, and I think this is the only game for a DS where you create 
 a player, anyway, after your done creating your player, you can play tournaments from around the 
 world against different tennis players, and eventually you will get the chance to play in big tournaments 
 like Wimbledon and a whole variety of other tournaments. If you win these tournaments you will 
 win money and you can spend that money to train. Yes it sounds weird to pay money to practise but 
 it is worth it beacause there are 4 practise minigames and they are loads of fun.
  
  This is one of my favourite DS games and it is worth playing because it is lots and lots of fun 
 and you will play it for about 10 hours before you beat it so it will keep you busy. Some of the 
 tennis players you will vs. in carrear mode will be really hard so i gave it just an 8, if it wasn't 
 that hard, I would give it a 10. 
  
  Note: At the beginning of carrear mode the people you vs. will be easy but as you progress in the 
 game, the people will become harder.
  
  You can also create your own tournaments which is a +plus, and they are really fun to play in.
 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Jamesey11
Rating: 6.5
Date: Sep 30, 2007 8:34 pm PT
Review:  This agme is alright. To be honest i don't think this game is that bad. It is sort of bad and sort 
 of good. The good bits are is that it is one of the only ds games that have real tennis players 
 in it. You can see how fast your serves are, You can do really fast serves, you get to make up 
 your own player, do world tour with it and you can improve your players stats and there are really 
 good controls. The bad bits are is that the player you are doesn't move smoothly, the game is to 
 easy, when you make your own player there aren't many details to add to them and you can't do doubles 
 matches.
  
  Gameplay: 6
  The Gameplay is fair. The only problem is that your player doesn't move smoothly.
  
  Graphics: 
 6
  The graphics in this game aren't as bad as everyone says they are but still they aren't that good.
 
  
  Sound: 6
  The sound is alright but i prefer no sound because the sound gets very stressing.
  
  Value: 
 7
  The value is the highest rated part of the game for me even though it isn't that great.
  
  Overall: 6.2
  Overall this game is alright but it should of been heaps better. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ozland
Rating: 8.5
Date: Sep 3, 2007 5:30 am PT
Review:  Well, i love playing top spin games, but the terrible review this game got on GS and IGN, got me 
 thinking if i really want to get it for my DS.
  
  Finally, i bought it. And it is great. You have what you expect from a top spin title, play now, 
 exhibition and career mode. In the career mode you get to create your own player, customize it, 
 participate in 100 tournaments, and upgrade your player by winning mini games and of course, move 
 up in world rank (you start at rank 100) .
  
  The graphics are great, finally a great looking game for the DS, the play is full 3D and it looks 
 great. The really cool thing about the game is the players animations, it gives a very great feel 
 of you playing on the court.
  
  The sound is ok, you can hear the ball bounce, the crowed, the announcer and even the player when 
 trying to reach a difficult ball. The main thing all the reviews talked about is the frame rate. 
 they said that because its full 3D, the frame rate is bad and some times you cant even see the 
 ball. Well, i didn't experience it at all. Iv been playing this game for about 20 hours and the 
 game runs great and smoothly. I didn't see any bad frame rate or ball disappearing. The game runs 
 great and i didn't see any lags. One thing i feel is missing is more camera angels, in the game 
 there are only two, near and far (i play near) , it could be nice to have more options or even a 
 zoom in/out option, but its ok and you can manage with those two options.
  
  Another thing that could be better (one of the reasons i gave this game only 8.5) , is the saving. 
 The saving is done automatically during your career progress, but theres no save during the tournament 
 itself (like in Fifa you can save during the match) . That means you have to finish the tournament 
 in order to save your progress. So you have to play through the entire tournament before closing 
 your DS.
  
  Currently im playing this game and i cannot stop playing it. Its fun, great graphics and great 
 replay value. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mariocollins
Rating: 8.8
Date: May 21, 2007 7:05 am PT
Review:  so lets start with a recap of other similar games on Nintendo's handheld consoles.
  
  Rafael Nadaal - plays like a piece of poo and it has worse graphics than top spin 2 - but was given 
 4.3
  
  Virtua tennis Gba - minigames are boring, competitions are random and the graphics are pretty shoddy. 
 But was given 8.7
  
  Mario Tennis Gba - I'm not going to slate this game, it plays well and it has an interesting plot 
 - given 8.6 (lower than virtua tennis)
  
  Top spin 2 Ds - Most realistic tennis game, with 100 potential players you have to beat to climb 
 to the top of the ranks. The minigames to build up your attributes are more professional than virtua 
 tennis. There are tennis courts that you can play on from all over the world and this game has 
 the best tennis stars than all the other games. but it is only given 2.9
  
  I think that is ludicrous and i am outraged at gamespot for rateing rafael piece of rubbish higher 
 than top spin that plays really professionally and is the most realistic out of the bunch.
  
  If you want a realistic tennis game with good players and a long career mode buy top spin 2
 
  
  If you want a fun game with special shots buy mario power tennis.
  
  If you want a tennis game that plays like a piece of poo, but rafael tennis game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tomacres
Rating: 7.3
Date: Nov 27, 2006 8:24 am PT
Review:  I must say that I took a MASSIVE risk when I bought this game after all the bad things I'd heard 
 about it. However while I see where people are coming from about the framerate, it really isn't 
 that bad and it is still easily possible to have some fun with this well amde tennis game for DS.
 
  
  Gameplay: The four face buttons are all different shots, a normal powerful shot, a slice, a llob 
 and of course a top spin shot. There is also a special meter that pops up if you press the R trigger 
 and if you time this right you will unleash a super powerful shot that will be very hard for your 
 opponent to reach. The game has 3 game modes, the main single player game is a career mode and 
 just like the 360 version you start off as a lowwly player with no stats and gradually build up 
 by training and winning tournaments until you're competeing in the likes if Wimbledon and become 
 the number 1 player. There is also a tournament mode where you can play as any of the proffesional 
 players in the game (about 6 men and 6 women) and play in ghrand slams such as Wimbledon. Then 
 there's a plain and simple exhibition which can also be player multiplayer but unfortunately both 
 players need a copy of the game.
  
  Graphics: A bit choppy and the framerate isn't great, but the player models are nice and the animations 
 are very, very good. The developers have done well to squeeze these graphics out of the DS, and 
 while it will never rival Virtua Tennis on the PSP in terms of looks, its till looks pretty decent 
 and is well animated.
  
  Sound: Extremely cheesy techno music plays in the background as you navigate through the menus. 
 On the court there's nice and simple effects when you hit the ball and the umpire also makes calls 
 and it sounds pretty good.
  
  Value: The career mode will keep you going for a while and it's fun to set up little tournaments 
 and destroy everyone as Roger Federer! Also if you're lucky enough to know someone else that also 
 has the game then multiplayer is excellent.
  
  Overall this a is a very decent tennis game on the Nintendo DS, and I hope that the developers 
 ignore the critisicms because this is a quality game. Hopefully we'll see some more good sports 
 games on the DS after some disappointing EA Sports games and if a Top Spin 3 comes out then all 
 it will take is a brush up on the framerate and maybe some single cart multiplayer and it would 
 be a truly smashing game! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jessejericho
Rating: 1.7
Date: Jul 17, 2006 2:55 pm PT
Review:  This game was not only the most never raking game for the ds. It was just plan not fun. I played 
 it for a day and at the end of that day i felt like killing all of the people that made this game. 
 the grafics are coppy crapy NES looking crap! The controls are very responsive and they seem to 
 hit the ball no matter what. the toss up at the beging makes no sence with little gage thing. The 
 career and single play are the same thing. there is better growth in new super mario bros! the 
 players all look like their dieing or deid. i cant beleave that some people gave thing game a 9.1. 
 I really liked the other top spinds but just a little more than this one. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Snowjo
Rating: 7.1
Date: Jun 27, 2007 5:46 am PT
Review:  I have played a lot of tennis games over the past 6 years and i know a great one when i play it. 
 Singles has been perfected in this Highly Detailed game and the tournaments are all there including 
 Wimbledon and the US Open, the frame rate is not bad at all and the only time that i have noticed 
 it is during multiplayer that you may get a slight jolt every now and then
  
  The gameplay is fantastic as it is very Realistic, also with the game you get all the top players, 
 career mode is also very good battle it out to become the top ranked Tennis Pro of Your Gender 
 and and can compete in a charity tournament to become the best.
  
  The Difficulty is Just Right it is not too easy but it wont make you want to throw your DS around.
 
  
  Well Worth Buying If You Enjoy Tennis Games Such as:
  Smash Court Tennis,
  Virtua Tennis 2 And Other Similar Games 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Kingofunrealuk
Rating: 2.6
Date: Jun 1, 2006 5:30 am PT
Review:  Virtua Tennis was seen as the pinnacle of Tennis games last generation. However there was one other 
 title: an Xbox exclusive known as Top Spin was an ace of a game with realistic physics, great graphics 
 and sound, coupled with online play. After Microsoft sold off the developer to 2K Sports, the discouraged 
 developer set on making the sequel. With the 360 and GBA version being fantastic, this would definitely 
 mean the DS version is also really good... Right? 
  
  At its core, Top Spin 2 isn't a bad game by any means. Its a tennis game with a simple enough 
 learning curve and a decent career mode filled with mini games and tournaments. The main mechanics 
 and controls of the game are very simple. The face buttons control your main shots such as the 
 'safe shot' and 'top spin'. These are easily executed; however using L or R will make you do a 
 timed shot, where obviously your timing has to be perfect. The game itself plays out as any generic 
 tennis game does. There are 3 games in a set, 1 or more sets in a match depending on the rules 
 of the tournament. This is no Mario Power Tennis; there are no gimmick courts or power shots. 
 
  
  Youd think that this would make a good game. But Top Spin 2 is let down by one of the worst and 
 unpredictable frame rates Ive ever witnessed. As anyone whos ever played Tennis virtually or 
 in real life would know, Tennis is a game of accuracy and timing. Due to the problems in Top Spin 
 2, you'll have issues with both of these. It wouldn't be so bad if you knew that some slowdown 
 was about to come along, but you just don't. At one point the game slowed down to a near slideshow 
 and others it has simply stopped dead during play for a couple of seconds. Its like playing on 
 an N-Gage or something; the games most stable offering is at about 15 frames per second so you'll 
 never really have a quick game. The accuracy is the other problem, when either using the zoomed 
 or the far camera its hard to tell where the ball is going to hit on yours or your opponents side 
 of the net. If this wasn't bad enough the game has loading times. I mean, jesus, the thing is running 
 off a memory card - what on Earth does it have to load?! 
  
  As previously mentioned, Top Spin 2 has a variety of mini games. They are fairly simple affairs 
 and doing them will increase your players statistics (speed, power, volley, serve etc.) , they 
 however can only be accessed through the career mode. The mini games are level based, when you 
 first play one of them its a simple easy affair, if you return the mini games will become more 
 demanding, asking for more points or requiring more skilful shots. The bulk of the game is of course 
 1 on 1 Tennis matches: they don't last all that long either but the learning curve is quite tough. 
 The AI will get a lot of aces past you on your first few tries so its fairly brutal. The later 
 matches seem to take forever, with many games and sets in each match. As your stats increase these 
 games will become quite easy, even then they just become long and drawn out. Annoyingly, you can't 
 save between the matches within tournaments so you either have to go through an entire tournament 
 in one sitting or put the DS into sleep mode when you want to stop. The game also has an extreme 
 lack of touch screen use. Your stylus' only outing will be to touch 'Press Start'. Thats right, 
 you can't even use the touch screen during the menus. 
  
  
  
  Apart from the terrible frame rate and weird accuracy that plagues this game like the Black Death, 
 there are unsurprisingly more problems. But first of all, lets have a couple of positives shall 
 we? This game actually has quite a nice 3D engine, if it was better optimised it would be really 
 good; and the real world players are a great addition to the game. Finally, you can even beat Tim 
 Henman! (Although its not much of a feat these days) So, now the bad things. The animations are 
 clunky, slow and unnatural even for a DS game; secondly, all the character models are really blocky. 
 Theres no real detail on the faces of the players and they really lack emotion. Another problem 
 is the clipping errors: the ball for example can fly through walls and out of the game world; surely 
 it wouldn't be that hard to put a wall there instead of just a texture? 
  
  The sound is some how even worse than the graphics, Ill honestly admit I have no idea how they 
 managed it. I wish to find the person who did the commentating and kill them, theres just something 
 about his voice thats terrible. He only has a few things to say and it's ear bleedingly bad! Not 
 only that, but theres only one crowd cheering sound... which gets very repetitive. Also, your 
 player only has one grunt sound when they hit the tennis ball back which gets more and more grating 
 as time goes on. 
  
  This game is a disappointment to say the least. As much as I wanted to love this game like I have 
 other tennis games like Virtua Tennis and the Mario Tennis series, I just couldn't. There are a 
 million and one flaws in this game and to be honest, with the GBA version being better, I have 
 no idea how it shipped. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: D1rty_Dawg
Rating: 4
Date: Apr 22, 2006 3:41 am PT
Review:  I am not going to spend too much time with this review, I have better things to do than write about 
 this rubbish but I feel an urge to warn all my fellow gamers not to buy this drivel.
  
  I loved this game on the original Xbox, it soaked up so many hours when I used to play. That was 
 why I was looking forward to being able to play on the move.
  
  But I was very disappointed with this, it is possibly the worst game on the DS. The controls, the 
 look, the sound in fact everything is awful. None of the menus make any sense and the control of 
 the players is appaling.
  
  So please everyone, save your money and don't get this, you will thank me! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Bigmac4392
Rating: 9.1
Date: Apr 19, 2006 7:36 pm PT
Review:  Top Spin 2 DS I believe is under-rated. The graphics ( on my DS, which isn't all that special because 
 I got it the first day the DS came out!) are very good, and are not choppy or slow at all! Occasionally 
 that will occur, but you will quickly and easily get used to it. Top Spin 2 DS has a great normal-play 
 type mode (not career mode) and you can learn a lot about tennis from it. The shots are fun and 
 can come in multiple different ways with button combinations, and the character's precision, speed, 
 and serve all play major rolls in that. The "quick-play" mode also allows you to make your own 
 tournament (rules, court, rounds, etc.) and test you skills to see how far you can go! Top Spin 
 2 DS also has a great career mode. You first get to create your own character the way you want 
 it, right down to the style of which the serve! Then you can start your career, either jump straight 
 to tournaments, or go to the training camp to build you stats/attributes. Also this game has a 
 multi-player mode. Probably great but none of my friends have this game so I can't really say anything 
 there! Tournaments and games are very realistic and from the screen shots, you can see how good 
 the graphics are on the DS. I got this game April 16th, and haven't stopped playing it since! This 
 is a great and fun game that is one of those "once in a lifetime" games that you can just pick-up 
 at any time knowing its greatness. I recommend this game to anyone looking for a sports or any 
 game for the DS, especially a tennis fan. Not a DS title to pass-up. In conclusion, if you like 
 tennis or like great pick-up games, buy Top Spin 2 DS. (Only $30!) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: poohbear12
Rating: 6.8
Date: Apr 1, 2006 9:19 pm PT
Review:  Tennis is such a simple game: hit a soft yellow ball over a net one more time than your opponent. 
 No problem.
  But for some reason, video game developers have had conniptions trying to get it right, with more 
 failures than successes out there for the various consoles. Add to this the fact that tennis is 
 not exactly the world's most popular sport, and you have a possible recipe for disaster.
  So it was with some surprise that I noticed 2KSports was releasing a version of Top Spin (2) on 
 the DS. I happen to like playing and watching tennis, so instead of picking up that used copy of 
 Burnout Legends, I grabbed this one instead. Given the dubious and mixed ratings for Burnout, I 
 figure it can wait for another week (and I am hoping most of the poor reviews it got were from 
 people loyal to the x-box version, which i didn't much like) . So what game am I reviewing here 
 again? Oh yeah, tennis.
  
  Like any other top Spin/Virtua Tennis affair, you play through a career with a single player, travelling 
 around the world from tourney to tourney, making money you can spend to upgrade your player for 
 the tougher tournaments down the road.
  Oh, wait a minute.... you don't buy upgrades here. Undoubtedly figuring it would make things too 
 easy allowing you to just buy new stats-enhancing gear, the designers upped the ante this time. 
 When you win a tournament, you earn money to purchace the *opportunity* to play in a minigame which, 
 if you win, will allow for stats upgrades. You fail, you lose your money.
  Thankfully, there are only four of these minigames, and thankfully they aren't overly-difficult 
 (serve at targets, hit targets with groundstrokes, etc.) , otherwise you might end up wasting your 
 hard-earned cash while failing to upgrade, putting you at a disadvantage for the next level of 
 tournaments. What is it with tennis game developers and minigames? Did someone do a poll and discover 
 tennis lovers also like side-show carnival games? Surely there is a better, more realistic way 
 to include a way to upgrade your character attributes..... maybe by winning tournaments and beating 
 opponents, like any hack-n-slash dungeon crawl. Anyway....
  
  Control of your player and groundstrokes take place with the standard d-pad to move, buttons to 
 hit different shots (a=flat, x=topspin, etc.) . Initially, your ability to hit the ball is extremely 
 poor, such that no matter how much you try not to, you will inevitably hit the ball right back 
 to the other player. As well, your position relative to the ball plays a very important role in 
 determining whether you hit a solid shot, or end up plunking an underhanded baby-stroke. Unlike 
 Mario or Virtua Tennis, your player will not auto-adjust when near the ball, meaning you will spend 
 the first half-hour or so just trying to figure out how far away you should be standing from the 
 ball to hit it properly (I can't count hw many times my avatar hit the ball very softly back to 
 the opponent, who crushed it on the next shot) . If you can get past this frustrating beginning, 
 the game does get easier to play as you up your stat points on control, speed, etc. I found it 
 strange that the most difficult matches were the first two or three, but once I began to move up 
 the ranks, found myself destroying the opposition with ease.
  Sound is not the clearest.... the 8-bit samples of the players are functional, but nothing special. 
 Thankfully, you can turn off the music in the options screen. The announcer sounds like a robot 
 from Tron. Again, not bad enough to be annoying, but it could have been done better... for example, 
 when match point occurs, instead of saying 'advantage player 1', they could have programmed in 
 a vocal shot of 'match point'.
  In fact, a lot could have been done better with this game, which makes me think they needed a few 
 more weeks of testing and code-tweaking prior to releasing it. Nothing is unbearably broken in 
 the game, but nothing is spectacular either.
  For example, the graphics are not exactly the best the DS has to offer. Players are offered two 
 vantage points to play from: behind-the-back, or the more traditional 3/4 overhead perspective. 
 Neither is particularly appealing, for different reasons. 
  The over-the-head view results in such small graphics of the players and the bal that it feels 
 like you are trying to control your player while watching from a blimp. The ball ends up being 
 a pixel or two in size, which blends in far too easily to the surrounding graphics, resulting in 
 severe eye strain to keep track of exactly where it is. Behind-the-player allows you to see the 
 ball more easily, since you are at court-level, but the strain on the DS hardware of having to 
 keep the graphics moving at a decent clip results in the action becoming quite choppy, as though 
 you are playing tennis in a room with a strobe light on. This is less evident when your player 
 is standing still, but given the great deal of lateral movement naturally occurring in tennis, 
 these times are rare. It isn't bad enough to completely ruin the game, but it makes for a difficult 
 time of keeping your eye on the ball, and the opposing player. I ended up rationalizing this sputtering 
 view as being a simulation of the jerky perspective that would be occurring if I really was running 
 back and forth on a tennis court. What is annoying about this is that we are talking about a rendered 
 tennis court here, not some alien world of shaded hallways filled with flying sentries. Thanks 
 to MPH, we now have some idea of what the DS graphics capabilities are, which clearly are not being 
 exploited here.
  
  The career mode is not the longest I've seen; there are less than 30 events worldwide to participate 
 in, and once you have won an event, you never play it again. At any given time, only about three 
 or so events are available, resulting in a somewhat linear progression through the mode. I found 
 myself missing Virtua Tennis' method, in which time passes a week at a time, with tournaments repeatedly 
 coming up for grabs.... that little added RPG element made for a more immersive experience. This 
 one, however, feels much more like an arcade game experience, with little in the way of depth.
 
  Is it the worst tennis game around? No. But it could have been so much better, with a few tweaks 
 here and there, and a little more attention to detail.
  
  Then again, given the fact that tennis is right up there with curling in terms of popularity, us 
 fans should probably be grateful this game even exists. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
