-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Tornado
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/ds/action/tornado/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 Stylized presentation.
 Cool concept.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 Camera is way too close to the playing field.
 Frustrating trial and error gameplay.
 Constant circular scribbling is required and tiresome.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Nov 25, 2008
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 4.5
Critic Score: 4.4, 25 Review (s)
User Score: 5.5, 22 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Ignition Entertainment
Developer: Success
Genre: Action
Date: Oct 27, 2008

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Though Tornado's core gameplay is based on a solid foundation, its few major drawbacks are too severe 
 to ignore. 

  Tornadoes are normally associated with destruction -- destroying homes, launching cows into the air, 
 and appearing as a cathartic disaster option in SimCity games. In Ignition Entertainment's Tornado 
 for the Nintendo DS, though, you use the titular weather phenomenon to restore Earth to order. 
 With a design much like Katamari Damacy, the game sounds like it would be strangely addictive, 
 but because of a few major slipups, Tornado ends up being frustrating and potentially disastrous. 

  In Tornado, a character known only as The Prince has sucked up Earth's countries into his own realm 
 for safekeeping, and it's your job -- as one of several anthropomorphic felines known as Cosmic Cleaners -- to 
 put them all back in place. The cleaners can spin themselves into large tornadoes that transport 
 any item they come in contact with. Each successful transport causes your tornado to grow in size, 
 giving you the ability to transport even larger objects. There are special items strewn about each 
 level that will help you gather up more objects -- such as the power-up that temporarily sends three 
 tornadoes in different directions to do your bidding -- if you meet certain conditions and apply 
 the correct touch-screen technique.  

           Contrary to popular belief, you actually want this swirling mass of wind to suck up your 
 high-rise.      

  The most noticeable issue rears its head almost the instant you begin playing your first level. 
 The camera -- which gives you an isometric perspective of the polygonal playing field -- is, in many 
 instances, too close to everything. Even as your tornado grows and the camera pans out, you can 
 never see as much as you'd want to. Learning where landmarks are on a given level then becomes 
 more of a chore than it should be, and this is especially irritating when you're presented with 
 goals such as "find five batteries before the time limit is up."  

  The pairing of goals with a time limit is another significant issue. Throughout the course of the 
 Story mode, you must find fellow Cosmic Cleaners to use during gameplay. Yet they're sometimes 
 hidden in random structures throughout the level, and there's no indication where you should start 
 looking. By themselves, these goals aren't entirely offensive, but trying to find a randomly hidden 
 character within five minutes -- not to mention having to spend time to enlarge your tornado to an 
 effective size -- can be infuriating. The game is just unnecessarily difficult, and it wouldn't be 
 exaggerating to say that you might retry some levels 20 times just to pass them.  

  Even if you come to grips with the goal structure, there's still your aching stylus hand to deal 
 with. Your tornadoes can grow in size only if you energize them by drawing on the touch screen 
 in a circular motion. As you transport items, a five-level meter begins to materialize. The stylus 
 antics serve to fill those meters with energy, and with each full level, your tornado grows a set 
 amount. The rub is that as the tornado touches the object it's trying to transport, it loses energy. 
 So, you're constantly scribbling on the screen as you frantically try to pick up everything in 
 sight before time runs out.  

  As you complete each of the 10 stages in Tornado, they become available in the Arcade and Versus 
 modes. Part of the allure of games like this is that you're encouraged to pick up the controller 
 and accumulate to your heart's content, and the secondary modes in Tornado get this partially right 
 where the main Story mode doesn't. The close camera, scribbling, and time limit are still present, 
 but at least they're not tied to mandatory goals, so you're free to see how much of each level 
 you can clean up in a relatively stress-free atmosphere. You also get a log of all the crazy items 
 you've transported, and the game keeps track of how much of a level you've cleaned up (in percentage 
 points) , so there's incentive to go grab that one extra percent.  

           Get used to watching your timer count down into the red. A whole lot.      

  Tornado's 
 presentation is somewhat entertaining. Its blocky humanoid characters, random objects, and goofy 
 sound effects are stylistically reminiscent of the Katamari series. Even when you're trying to 
 complete the game's frustrating sixth level (the United States) , transporting bluntly named Bikini 
 Women and hearing their comical yelps will make you crack a slight smile.  

  Tornado has its heart in the right place. The cumulative gameplay design is easy to understand 
 and get into, and at its core, the act of swallowing things up into a controllable tornado is good, 
 silly fun. All it takes are a few significant problems to bring down a fun experience, though, 
 and sadly, Tornado has just enough of them.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (2 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: Cyberpixie
Rating: 2
Date: Mar 4, 2009 3:01 am PT
Review:  Eat, sex, defecate, sleep, repeat. The cycle of life in fairly simple stages. Clearly these activities 
 have been translated many a time before into interactive gaming. Well, maybe not so much the defecation 
 but the rest, totally. We do however seem to have an obsession with the "eating" part in games 
 in particular, almost as much as scantily clad woman in MMORPGs. From the early days of Pac-Man 
 and Snake to the more recent Katamari Damacy and Noby Noby Boy, there is just something insatiably 
 delightful about gobbling up pixels. Possibly our enjoyment of such titles is drawn from our primitive 
 instincts or maybe it's down to great game design. After having experienced Tornado, I beg the 
 latter.
  
  This game centres on a group of intergalactic, anthropomorphic cat dustmen that create tornados 
 to clean up the rubbish. In this instance they happen to be sweeping up earth when Prince (not 
 the Symbol) appears with a black hole, causing earth to get sucked in, leaving our unfortunate 
 furry friends to put everything back. Talk about change in job roles! I'd be demanding a pay rise! 
 This is the flimsy excuse for another "Hoover up as many items as you can" arcade gameplay experience 
 that Tornado offers.
  
  First off is the sound of what might as well be cat nails dragging across a blackboard. The characters, 
 Nickelodeon styled furry blighters don't stay silent while talking, or even just make an initial 
 "meow" to show the conversation has switched hands. Instead they beep, meow, squeal and growl through 
 the whole dialogue. The game is aimed at children, for that I have and do make allowances, but 
 this is just horrible. It was like waiting in a nightclub queue, sober, with a group of girls shrieking 
 and screaming at that pitch which erodes your brain while you try your best to avoid eye contact 
 with attached boyfriends. This is before I've even started playing the game, it had me in a state 
 of heightened agitation, and it only got worse.
  
  
  
  You are then run through some brief tutorials explaining the control system while still bombarded 
 by the CONSTANT NOISE! The music doesn't help matters either with its annoying jiggles and supposedly 
 funky rhythms. I want to hear some proper funk in one of these games some day.
  Anyway, the game is presented to you, finally, with a map of the area you are clearing up on the 
 top screen and an isometrically angled, 3D view of the area with your selected furry ball in the 
 centre. To start cleaning the area you need to get your tornado power going, which is accomplished 
 by drawing circles repeatedly around your character until Mr/Miss Meow turns into an elemental 
 tower of destruction. However, at this stage it's a rather short tower that can only suck up trees, 
 lamp posts, fences, bikini ladies and penguins. The sound effects used for grabbing people are 
 pretty funny and it does have a charming style to it, I'll give it that. You must now navigate 
 your whirligig of fur around the map sucking things up in order to get to the next level eventually 
 reaching the level 5 map destroying cyclone. To achieve this you touch in the direction you wish 
 to move, which is the most ridiculous thing, as you are spinning circles on the touch screen at 
 a rate of about 120rpm. This is because as your tornado tears objects up, it uses some energy which 
 can only be regained by; you guessed it, drawing circles. This means most of the time, you'll be 
 using the D-pad to move while the other hand is frantically scribbling over the touch screen. There 
 are also accompanying abilities to give the gameplay some variety. Blowing into the microphone 
 will give you micro-power bursts in speed, but you'll have to be at level two to use this feature. 
 At the highest level, the tornado is not only larger but will split in two, enabling it to deal 
 double damage. However, it's not always easy to get to this last level.
  
  
  
  It's an interesting concept granted but the implementation into a game is poor. The drawing interferes 
 with the D-pad controls and it makes a complete mess of the touch screen. My DS screen is now covered 
 in scratches, luckily I have a screen protector, otherwise I'd be raging. I wonder if this is some 
 sort of ploy to force people onto the DSi, either way not impressed. The D-pad movement is also 
 woolly and largely imprecise, I couldn't figure out if this was due to the frequent slow down as 
 buildings popped up (really, this game has pop up) or the touch screen interfering but nevertheless, 
 it's infuriating to be guiding the spinning feline across a bridge only to drop off for apparently 
 no reason. I remember this type of frustration due to poor design from my young days playing Robocop 
 2 on the C64. Constantly falling off platforms due to the stupid momentum that metal Murphy possessed 
 made me want to tear my skull from my body and smash into the screen.
  
  The hair pulling is now getting to dangerous levels as is the time limit which is rapidly diminishing. 
 All three game modes (Story, Arcade and Multiplayer) are timed events, which is probably the crux 
 of Tornado's failing as a game. During the story mode of the game, you must collect items, defeat 
 foes using power ups or "Tornado bumping" and find missing allies. This is done across a background 
 of ten levels representing different countries including the UK (with only landmarks from London) , 
 France (Paris) , Japan (Tokyo) , America (actually modelled with LA in the West and NYC in the East) 
 and most surprisingly, Iraq. Yes, I was a little taken aback by the war torn level full of bombs, 
 tanks, mosques, woman in Niqabs and camels. It feels very out of place next to the rest of the 
 games bright colourful presentation. The comments our feline friends make are not particularly 
 in tune either, barely noticing other than to give you a pro tip: "keep away from the bombs!" Whether 
 they were just trying to make an "accurate" model of the world or to encourage children to think 
 about war I will probably never know. Nevertheless, it's hardly the worst thing Tornado does to 
 the player. Making you play a game of pot-luck against the clock however, is.
  
  
  
  During the "find your buddies" levels you must clear away as much of scenery to find them before 
 the timer runs out. This is not too challenging in the first few stages despite having a steep 
 learning curve due to the controls. However, upon getting to the 6th stage set in America the game 
 broke. You must find one of the blasted cats during the 5min time limit and also defeat King Kong 
 with the lighting power-up. First of all, even the fastest character takes about 30 seconds to 
 traverse the map, which you can multiply by 2 if you're picking up everything on the way. To use 
 this power-up, the tornado must be level 4 which takes considerable time. So by the time you've 
 reached the east coast with said tornado, you'll likely only have about a minute left to kill the 
 beast and then finish finding the useless space kitty. And as I found out later, the location of 
 the cat is random each time, and he doesn't spawn until you've cleared 50% of the map, which is 
 not made known to the player. Couple this with no instant replay, and things are looking disastrous 
 indeed.
  
  I have not been made so angry by a game in a long, long time. Granted, the arcade mode dispenses 
 with the ill devised objectives leaving the player in a sandbox-like, "just suck it all up" mode 
 that unlocks when you've beaten each level, as well as a two-player versus mode that finds you 
 racing to suck things up or change the colour of crystals. However these additions to the core 
 game do not forgive the appalling design decisions. To top it all off the camera is placed too 
 close to the action, even as the tornado grows, never quite giving you enough view distance to 
 navigate. I suspect this is largely down to the engines inability to render many objects at a time, 
 however I have seen similar effects in Prey the Stars, so it could be more down to the capabilities 
 of the DS itself. That said, DS titles such as Metroid Prime, Ninja Gaiden and Mario 64 make incredible 
 use of the DS so I'm not giving Tornado any brownie points here.
  
  
  
  Brownies, mmmmmm.
  
  So, eating? Add it to a game results in the ultimate arcade game experience? 
 Hardly. Tornado has proved that borrowed ingredients from excellent games, mixed at random, does 
 not work. The raw ideas are sound, I even cracked a little smile when I heard the concept and laughed 
 at the bikini ladies whizzing off into my monstrous tower, but that was all. This game caused me 
 a great deal of distress both from its badly implemented control system and incredibly frustrating 
 core gameplay. Constant circling, no instant retry and unforgiving time limit made for a unrewarding 
 game experience. Maybe if the cats had to vomit up the clearly monstrous space hairballs to keep 
 things interesting, it might have succeeded.
  
  Na, who am I kidding. Tornado has been developed with good intentions and classic elements but 
 ultimately forgot to include the most important part of life.
  
  Fun.
  
  2/10
  
  Niall Macdonald  24/02/09 
::::::

::::::
UserName: brandyinindiana
Rating: 5
Date: Nov 19, 2008 5:49 am PT
Review:  Ever since I first played Katamari Damacy back in 2004, I've been a big fan of such games that 
 task players with collecting every item in their path to serve some overall purpose. While the 
 games in the Katamari Damacy franchise are arguably the best, others like Tasty Planet have also 
 been able to satisfy my need for frenzied collecting. Tornado from Ignition Entertainment is the 
 newest game in this same vein that takes advantage of the DS's touch screen capabilities.
  
  One day, while cleaning up Earth's pollution, Toki and his friends, the Cosmic Cleaners, are 
 sucked up into a mysterious black hole, along with all manner of objects from Earth (buildings, 
 vehicles, foliage, and even people) . After awaking on what they think to be a duplicate of Earth, 
 the Cosmic Cleaners soon learn that they have been the victim of the eccentric Prince who is obsessed 
 with Earth and all of the items on it. After realizing that their new surroundings weren't just 
 duplicates of items from Earth, but were the original items themselves, they go to work with their 
 tornado machines to return every stolen item to its proper location.
  
  These tornado machines allow each character (with six playable characters to choose from) to transform 
 into tornadoes and collect items in their path. Very much like Katamari Damacy, each tornado can 
 only collect items that are smaller than its funnel, meaning that at the beginning of each of the 
 game's 10 levels, you will spend quite a bit of time collecting small trees and animals until your 
 funnel has grown large enough to collect even the tallest of skyscrapers.
  
  Taking control of said tornado is achieved by way of the touch screen. As tornadoes are circular 
 entities that spin, your first concentration is to put your tornado into motion by spinning your 
 stylus around on the touch screen as quickly as possible. As you pick up items, your tornado's 
 strength will weaken, meaning that you must spin your stylus on the touch screen again in order 
 to regain your momentum.
  
  Your tornado's movement can be controlled either by dragging your stylus in the direction you wish 
 to go, or by using the directional pad. However, movement via use of the stylus is often tricky, 
 since you will be spending so much time creating spirals on the touch screen that you won't really 
 move anywhere. That being said, I found movement via the directional pad to be much easier, as 
 you can easily be moving in your desired direction while freeing up your stylus to continue spinning.
 
  
  No matter which method you choose to employ, each level plays basically the same, with your characters 
 traveling to different locations on this transported Earth such as China, South Korea, Egypt, England, 
 and the United States, among others. While the earliest levels challenge you with finding the missing 
 members of the Cosmic Cleaners that were lost during transit in the black hole, others have you 
 collecting various space ship parts so that you can find a way back to the real Earth. Your final 
 missions then will revolve around defeating Prince himself, who also happens to own a tornado machine, 
 creating a level filled with a difficult battle between your opposing tornadoes.
  
  While each level may take place in a different country, each shares a very bright color pallet 
 and the same angular shapes (as an example, camels in Egypt have square bodies) . However, this 
 lack of curves seems to have been deliberate, as the tornadoes themselves are much more curvy and 
 realistic, even though they still contain the same bright color scheme.
  
  All of that being said, it's probably a good thing that each level is so creatively themed, with 
 the appropriate foliage, sound effects and monuments befitting your geographical location (you 
 can pick up Big Ben in England for instance) , along with catchy music that will have you humming 
 along shortly after you begin, as you can expect to be retrying each a few times.
  
  The main difficulty in Tornado comes from the fact that each level is timed. Most also coming equipped 
 with a certain "percentage cleared" goal that must be reached in order for you to be able to pick 
 up the level's goal item, or be able to defeat an enemy and so on. Since you are very limited at 
 first as to the size of items that you can pick up, most of each level's time limit will be wasted 
 on small items, causing a great panic when you finally find yourself large enough to pick up buildings 
 yet only 30 seconds remain on the clock.
  
  Furthermore, since controlling your tornado is a two-fold process (one hand must concentrate on 
 spinning, while the other concentrates on movement) , if you're anything like me, you'll frequently 
 find yourself covering part of the screen with your stylus hand, blocking your view of various 
 items to be collected. To make matters worse, this frustrating difficulty level and frantic pace 
 frequently caused me to place undo pressure on both the touch screen and the directional pad, literally 
 leaving my left thumb sore from pressing so hard.
  
  After actually passing a level, that geographic location will then be available to play in a more 
 "free mode" type of setting. These levels are all focused on collecting a certain percentage of 
 the materials within a location within a certain time limit. And while collecting items simply 
 for the sake of collecting them (that is, not searching for a particular item) is a nice change 
 of pace, the time limits in each level are still far too short, and more often than not caused 
 my temper to rise.
  
  With an interesting graphical style and the introduction of a new and unique gameplay mechanic, 
 Tornado is one that showed a lot of promise but fell short almost immediately out of the gate. 
 By either removing the time limits from each level, or by giving players an option for how much 
 time they wished to have, Tornado would have instantly placed itself on my list of must play games 
 for the DS. However, as it currently stands, I would only suggest that those with far more patience 
 than I take a chance with this one. For everyone else, it's a pass.
  
  Full review and screenshots at: http://www. grrlgamer. com/review. php? g=tornado 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
