-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Touch Detective
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/ds/adventure/touchdetective/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 Cute, loveable characters with some legitimately funny dialogue.
 Cases can take a decent amount of time to complete.
 Colorful art style and a nice soundtrack.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 An endless array of ridiculously unintuitive puzzles that don't even make sense in the context of this nonsensical game.
 No depth to the gameplay beyond basic pixel hunting and random item combining.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Nov 22, 2006
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 6
Critic Score: 6.5, 28 Review (s)
User Score: 7.1, 180 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Atlus Co.
Developer: BeeWorks
Genre: Adventure
Date: Oct 24, 2006
ESRB: Everyone 10+

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Touch Detective is packed with goofy characters and funny dialogue, but its overly opaque adventure 
 game puzzle designs prevent it from being much fun. 

  One of the things the Nintendo DS has been heralded for is its ability to handle decidedly PC-oriented 
 genres such as strategy and adventure games. Well, at least strategy games. With the exception 
 of last year's delightfully crazy Phoenix Wright, most of the attempts to bring adventure games 
 to the DS haven't quite panned out, either because of short length, inadequate story, or off-kilter 
 mechanics. Atlus' Touch Detective is no different. It starts out promisingly enough, with some 
 cute, bizarre characters and a series of strange mysteries to solve via the DS's touch screen; 
 but more than any other adventure game on the DS to date, Touch Detective suffers from archaic 
 adventure game puzzle-solving, forcing you to pixel hunt and combine items until you're completely 
 and utterly bored with the whole thing.  

          You ain't just whistlin' Dixie, sister.     

  Touch Detective centers around a strange 
 detective agency run by a young girl named Mackenzie. This bulging-eyed blonde lives in a house 
 with a prim and proper butler type named Cromwell. You get the impression that Cromwell is sort 
 of a parent type and Mackenzie is his ward, but this isn't one of those  Inspector Gadget  scenarios 
 where the adult is a bumbling fool that everyone thinks is in charge, and the kid does all the 
 work. Mackenzie is a detective, straight up, and Cromwell is effectively her manservant. These 
 two are no stranger than the citizens of their town -- if anything, they're normal in comparison. 
 Mackenzie's main rival is a hot-headed, raven-haired chick named Chloe who always finds ways to 
 interfere in her investigations; Funghi is Mackenzie's mushroom-man pet that follows her around 
 wherever she goes and periodically takes part in puzzle-solving; and just about every case in the 
 game seems to revolve around Mackenzie's dingbat friend Penelope. Oh, and there's a creepy fortune-teller, 
 a chicken-lady condominium landlord, a reticent organ grinder, a giant shark-man who won't stop 
 eating pastries, and a bunch of haunting skeleton people who look like something out of Edvard 
 Munch's "The Scream."  

  As a detective, your job is to, of course, solve cases. But in a game this patently whimsical, 
 it wouldn't make much sense to have you solving gritty murders or finding jade monkeys before the 
 next full moon, or what have you. No, Mackenzie's cases take a decidedly oddball slant, tasking 
 you with discovering why Penelope can't dream anymore, or how to save a snow fairy from certain 
 doom in the middle of spring. Some of this stuff falls under the "weird for the sake of weird" 
 anime trappings that a lot of these games tend to, but it's forgivable simply for the fact that 
 the characters and dialogue are surprisingly endearing. The dialogue is filled with colorfully 
 goofy moments and more uses of "...." than anything since Golgo 13, and the characters -- while all 
 decidedly cartoony -- are likeable enough to want to stick with throughout the adventure. The game 
 has a nice look to it as well, with characters and scenery that don't fall into the usual generic 
 anime categories. It's original-looking art design that sets a nice mood for each case, and the 
 soundtrack complements these scenes equally well.  

  Solving mysteries mostly involves wandering around the town to the various searchable locations. 
 You start out with only a few locations on the map unlocked, but as you complete more cases, eventually 
 you'll visit every area, including a bustling shopping area, a picturesque park, a creepy planetarium, 
 and the aforementioned condominium. Tapping the screen makes Mackenzie walk to that point, and 
 likewise, whenever you see an item or an object that looks as if it might belong in your inventory, 
 you simply tap it to pick it up. Once it's in your inventory, you just tap it again on the inventory 
 screen to bring it up. Sometimes you need to do this to find hidden evidence or items on an object. 

          This is about as specific a clue as you will ever find in this game.     

  It's a mechanically sound gameplay system, but the way in which the game forces you into constant 
 absurd leaps of logic to solve puzzles and situations just about ruins the fun. This is one of 
 those dyed-in-the-wool pixel hunts that requires you to tap around every section of a screen until 
 you find something you can pick up. Nine times out of 10, what you tap won't be anything. But every 
 now and again, that air pump or that teddy bear sitting in your room will be the exact item you 
 need for the next section. Not that any of these puzzles make a lick of logical sense, nor does 
 the game hint to you what you might need at any time. Touch Detective subscribes wholeheartedly 
 to the theory that adventure games should require players to pick up every item, run back and forth 
 and talk to every single person over and over again, and try to use every item on every person 
 or other object you find until something -- anything -- works. Just for one example of this, there's 
 a point in one case where you pick up a broken air pump. For the longest time, your buddy Cromwell 
 won't do anything with it, until at one point he'll agree to fix it out of the blue. You still 
 have no idea what to do with it, mind you. Eventually, by no reason of sound logic, you realize 
 that you have to use it to pump the chicken-lady landlord full of air so you can break in to her 
 apartment and steal some keys. Believe it or not, it just gets more convoluted from there.  

  Beyond tapping around randomly until you find items or make people say or do the right things 
 inexplicably, there's very little to Touch Detective. It's just the same shallow progression of 
 actions over and over again until you've completed each of the four main cases. There are a few 
 bonus missions to bust through here and there, but they're no more interesting than what you do 
 throughout the main cases. It will take a strong love of the story and characters to want to slog 
 through the never-ending onslaught of arcane puzzles and screen tappery, and odds are that few 
 people will be able to fall quite that far in love with the game to put up with such nonsense. 
     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (13 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: Dymond7
Rating: 4
Date: Sep 18, 2008 8:50 am PT
Review:  seroiusly, The Phoenix Wright Series and Hotel Dusk are the only ones that actually perfected these 
 point-and-click games, anyway, let' start the review.
  
  Gameplay: Boring, yes I said it, it's boring, it's not like in Phoenix Wright where looking for 
 evidence is fun, and the cases in this game are supposed to be cute or something like that, but 
 I find it to be boring, but it is playable, but not really entertaining.
  
  4/10
  
  Graphics: The thing about the graphics is that it's really wierd, because it looks exactly like 
 the graphics from Pokemon Diamond/Pearl which are excellent games, but it's good graphics really, 
 nothing great.
  
  5/10
  
  Story: every case has a different story, but most of them are supposed to be cute cases that aren't 
 serious, but finding the evidence in cases is fun, but in this game... not so much I guess.
  
  3/10
  
  conclusion: buy it only if it's for 10$ or less, but other than that, just avoid 
 it really.
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: QueenOfGaming
Rating: 8
Date: Feb 23, 2008 1:37 am PT
Review:  I actually enjoyed this game despite many poor reviews. You play classy rich Mackenzie aka the 
 touch detective. She has her clueless friend, her know it all friends, and her faithful butler 
 at her side during all her cases. You get a case, go to different parts of the town via your map, 
 touch things in the scene to get clues, as well as talk to people and solve the cases. Imagine 
 Phoenix Wright during the investigations as the way the game is played. The only difference is 
 that the story writing is not nearly as good. They are simple PG cutesy stories but they are interesting 
 enough. I like detective games and I found myself enjoying the characters, the characters were 
 the silver lining to this game. I would try it out used but it's not that bad, if you finish all 
 the Phoenix Wright games and need something else not caring if it's not as good (like I did) , I 
 would pick this up. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: getfreaky
Rating: 8
Date: Jan 27, 2008 5:13 am PT
Review:  The Nintendo DS lends itself perfectly to adventure games; point-and-click adventures are a no-brainer 
 for the touch screen, but surprisingly not enough companies have brought the adventure genre to 
 the dual-screened system.
  
  In Touch Detective, you play as Mackenzie, a young girl aspiring to become a famous detective. 
 Living with your butler Cromwell, you await clients seeking help with different cases. It turns 
 out your friend Penelope is always getting in trouble and will constantly hire your services as 
 an amateur detective. Unfortunately, your 'best friend' Chloe is always getting on the way of your 
 investigations, always trying to outperform you. The characters in the game are well developed, 
 each with their unique personality and charisma, and you can quickly become attached to them or 
 begin to dislike them.
  
  Whenever a new case is brought to you, it's time to investigate. Using the touch screen, you can 
 move Mackenzie around, interrogate possible suspects, question witness or common townspeople, or 
 look around you to find anything suspicious. Sometimes, while talking to other characters, you 
 are given different questions to ask to get more information to help you solve the case. Other 
 times you need to find a certain item somewhere in the game; simply find it, tap it with the stylus, 
 and it will be added to your items list for future use. You can select any item and show it to 
 any character to see if you get a reaction. You could also use an item on another to combine them 
 or change the appearance or performance of one of them. This is the meat of the game; talking to 
 people, asking questions, finding items, and finding clever ways in which to use them. There's 
 also a Touch List, which includes items that you can't use but have touched, and records them. 
 You can work your way through the game trying to complete the Touch List, but this is unnecessary 
 and it feels that way. Touch screen controls work well with no problems at all, making investigating 
 intuitive and easy.
  
  
  The game's dialogue is well written, distinguishing each character well enough and providing some 
 chuckles here and there, but it could've been improved; it's a bit too linear, too straight and 
 to the point. The game's audio nice; the music goes along with the mood of the game all the time, 
 with some catchy music and good sound effects to go alongside the adventure. Graphically, Touch 
 Detective is nothing impressive, but the semi-kiddy mood of the game is well balanced with the 
 cartoony graphical style and characters. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: KittenToes
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 22, 2008 8:10 am PT
Review:  Mystery Detective...
  I really enjoyed this game a lot and i am also looking forward to Mystery Detective 2.
  I really 
 like old-school point and click games which is exactly what this is. It has really pretty graphics, 
 some really dark adult humour, and uses the ds for exactly what is was made for.
  I got a bit worried when i first started playing it because i thought it was going to be really 
 easy but once you get to about half way though the 2nd chapter you quickly realise its a lot trickier 
 then you first thought.
  Theres also a strange feature where instead of the obvious collect the hidden items you have a 
 touch list (hence the alternate title: Touch detective) where everything you touch goes into your 
 notebook describing what it felt like sometimes with some funny conclusions.
  
  Extra Bonus episodes once you complete the game aswell.
  
  This game really is a rose among 
 thorns especially if your into your point and click games like me!!
  Buy it now. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pdrydia
Rating: 6.5
Date: Jan 2, 2008 3:47 pm PT
Review:  I'm very pleased with my purchase of Touch Detective. The humor, story, characters, and dialogue 
 all went down well with me, and I really like the art style and music. I had a ton of fun playing 
 it over these last few days and I won't be trading it back in.
  
  That said, this game plays too much like a 15-year-old point-and-click adventure game. I certainly 
 enjoyed my Monkey Island and King's Quest back in the day, but there have been a lot of improvements 
 in gaming since then.
  
  Touch Detective does improve upon the old model in some minor but significant ways. While older 
 games may have given you a slew of commands to use -- speak, listen, give, show, take, use, walk, 
 and so on -- Touch Detective uses a simple interface with few commands. Most of these commands are 
 implied and combined into a simple tap to the touch screen. Tap on something you want to touch 
 and touch it; tap on something you want to take and, if you can, you take or try to take it; tap 
 on a person and you talk to them. Tap on an item from your item screen before tapping on a person 
 to show or give it to them, depending on the context.
  
  Another welcome improvement -- you won't die a dozen times while trying to figure out "what you need 
 to do next." Unfortunately, the improvement isn't too much better because instead of dying, you'll 
 repeat the same dialogue and scenes over and over. "What you need to do next" isn't always intuitive, 
 even if you're familiar with old adventure game logic -- "look everywhere, talk to everyone, touch 
 everything, use every item you have on everyone."
  
  The problem ultimately comes down to the plot hinging on trigger events that are frequently unintuitive. 
 If there were a better flow of ideas or more in-game hints to guide the player to the next thing 
 to do, Touch Detective could have been a great game -- and not just to those of us with the patience 
 for old school point-and-click. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sugarcandysin
Rating: 6.3
Date: Jul 25, 2007 10:30 am PT
Review:  I don't really have this game, but my friend and I played this game together. This game is OK, 
 but not quite.
  
  Gameplay (7/10) -
  The storyline is great! And the mysteries are kind of weird, actually. But it is still kind of 
 fun! But sometimes, you just get totally stuck on something, and me and my friend would have to 
 log onto GameFAQs for some help. Only 4 cases though, too short.
  
  Graphics (5/10) -
  The colors are pretty dark. And some of the characters in the game look pretty freaky. Eh, it's 
 kind of OK.
  
  Sound (7/10) -
  Music is a little creepy sounding. Sound is cartoon-ish.
  
  Value (6/10) -
  Not sure about that. It's an OK game... but some people may get a little annoyed 
 with it.
  
  Reviewer's Tilt (6/10) -
  OK game.
  
  -TOTAL SCORE- (6.7/10) -
  Like I said before (many times) , it's a pretty much OK game. But it's really short, so I'm not 
 sure if you should buy it. But give it a try. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MAGIC_GUMBALL
Rating: 8.3
Date: Jul 23, 2007 7:59 am PT
Review:  This game is probably one of the best i played.
  after a couple of months, i just deleted my file and played it all over again.
  It may be a little 
 hard at parts, but thats a detectives job!
  
  This game has pretty funny dialogue and weird and quirky characters. The music in the game is really 
 enjoyable. My favorite song in it is Gumshoe Blues .
  The graphics were awesome, like your character is 3-d, and everthing else is drawn out. I really 
 like the art style of it.
  There really is no main story, but all of the cases are well-planned.
  
  I really cant wait 
 til the sequel! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MangoLlamas
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jul 20, 2007 4:59 am PT
Review:  It reminds me of fruit cake, you either love it or hate it... This mysterious game features a young 
 detective named mackenzie, who always gets caught up with wacky cases that she tries to solve. 
 This game has an odd ring to it. the only thing I can wish for is that the cases wouldnt be so 
 random, however this game is unique and fun! Use your eliminating process to conjur up ideas about 
 where to go next... what to do in this situation... what happens if... You can expect a great variety 
 of plot, dilogue, and plenty of fun to go with it! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: AirGuitarist87
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jul 18, 2007 12:23 pm PT
Review:  Touch Detective (Mystery Detective to me and other Brits) on the DS is a fantastic game. Im not 
 saying that just because Ive been starved for close to a decade of decent point n click adventure 
 games (God bless the DS) but because the game is actually pretty damn enjoyable.
  
  You play as Mackenzie, a young girl whos trying to get into the Great Detective Society. In order 
 to do so she must complete 4 cases and submit her reports to them. Sounds like serious business, 
 no? Get ready for some serious sleuthing! Ornot. The characters in this game are well thought 
 out, yet at the same time quite linear. You have your realist, Mackenzie, who tries to make sense 
 of the things that Chloe and Penelope do; your loyal pet mushroom Funghi who, in my opinion is 
 the best character in the game, who looks like a brown Wobuffet off Pokemon; Chloe, the hyperactive 
 nutcase whos constantly trying to outdo you (just think of Tomo from Azumanga Daioh) ; Penelope, 
 the ditzy happy-go-lucky best friend, who you WILL grow to hate; and Cromwell, your inventor/butler/vampire?
 
  
  The controls are as youd expect from the DS. You touch things with the stylus and Mackenzie will 
 interact with them whichever way they were meant to be interacted. The graphics are brilliant, 
 in my opinion, despite the dark manga/anime look of it, its actually quite cutesy. The characters 
 look great and well thought out, except for non-important characters who all look like that guy 
 from the Scream painting, they really freak me out.
  
  This is another of those silly point n click games. Okay then, touch games. Whatever. The fact 
 is that this game requires some serious thinking outside the box to get some puzzles done. The 
 difficulty of this game swings wildly, ranging from the screaming obvious to the downright ridiculous 
 and this can get quite annoying. Sometimes to solve a puzzle just requires you to talk to a certain 
 person in order to progress.
  
  All in all, I say Mystery Detective is a brilliant game and I highly recommend it to anyone looking 
 for a decent puzzle game for their DS.
  
  8/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: doreensum
Rating: 5.4
Date: Mar 15, 2007 6:32 pm PT
Review:  I love Pheonix Wright-type of games and bought this game eagerly. However, it was a huge disappointment. 
 To look for clues, I went from office to park to shopping mall to office to condo to park to mall 
 to..... you get the drift? It was frustrating that only certain events will allow your story to 
 go on. there are barely enough clues to hint to where you have to be. Sometimes, it's tap here 
 tap there and pray that you'll tap that clue by chance. The cases are fun though. They come up 
 with out-of-the-world storylines that makes it difficult to deduce the criminal. Although the characters 
 aside from the main few makes you feel like you are living in a dream.... just like in the first 
 case. =) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sjesseph
Rating: 6.4
Date: Feb 25, 2007 4:46 pm PT
Review:  In this game you are a little girl that solves crimes. You go around and pick up clues and talk 
 to people to help you will your case. For the most part I will say this game is ok. If you could 
 rent it or buy it used or on sale that would be more worth the money. It goes for 30.00 in the 
 stores which seems a little to high for this game. Plus I wish there was more game play and less 
 talking durring the game. The graphics and sound are good and the game play is ok but can get a 
 little boring after a while. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nintendomania
Rating: 8
Date: Jan 1, 2007 1:16 pm PT
Review:  As I have already said this game surprised me greatly. Who would guess what the DS is capable of 
 doing. You play as Mackenzie who is a girl just trying to be a decent detective. Your instructor 
 in the game, Cornwell, will get you started to accept cases, find clues, and of all things; touch 
 the clues. The cases can get boring making this game tiresome. Also with strange cases like dreams 
 being stolen can make this game look just a little pathetic. The nice part is, is you can save 
 almost anywhere in your case if you have something else to do. The game is fun to pick up and then 
 put down but you will want to finish the case first before forgetting the plot of it. A big problem 
 is when you get stumped, you will walk around and question people, looking for clues, but then 
 finally realizing the clue you needed to continue was right in front of you the entire time. For 
 all its worth though this is an amazingly good game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: katman
Rating: 4.5
Date: Nov 29, 2006 4:09 am PT
Review:  I should of realized from the cover art this game was not going to be for me, but I thought it 
 might be worth my $30 because the gameplay sounded something I would be interested in. Something 
 along the lines of Trace Memory.
  
  Oh man was I wrong. Everything about the game is way too annoying to play further, like the endless 
 looping music, reading text on the top and bottom screens at the same time, endless clicking on 
 everything in the environment to find the right thing to use and have to sit thru the same text 
 over and over when clicking on an item to use it again. Ugh!
  
  On top of all that it's just way too Strawberry Shortcake like for me, way too cutsie for me to 
 take serious.
  
  In Summary, don't bother with this one. I don't know who they made it for, it's too childish for 
 adults, and too much reading for kids. Plus what's up with the phallic sidekick? 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
