-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Touch the Dead
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/ds/action/touchthedead/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 You get to shoot an incredible number of zombies before it's over.
 touch-to-shoot controls work reasonably well.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 Reload mechanic kills pacing.
 zombies seem to appear out of nowhere.
 3D graphics are crude.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: May 21, 2007
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 5.5
Critic Score: 5.9, 34 Review (s)
User Score: 6.6, 293 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Eidos Interactive
Developer: Dream On
Genre: Light Gun Shooter
Date: May 16, 2007
ESRB: Mature

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Replacing a light gun with touch-screen support doesn't make up for Touch the Dead's contrived gameplay 
 or its stiff, boxy presentation. 

  In an apparent attempt to create a little brand confusion, Eidos has released Touch the Dead for 
 the Nintendo DS, an on-rails shooter that evokes Sega's campy light gun series The House of the 
 Dead. The key differences between the two are that Touch the Dead replaces the light gun with touch-screen 
 controls and that Touch the Dead isn't very fun. While the generally responsive touch-screen controls 
 do suffer from an awkward reloading mechanic, Touch the Dead's big failing is its flat atmosphere 
 and the inherently repetitive nature of the action.  

          No, Touch the Dead is not a dating sim, you sicko. Or, at least, not a very good one.  
    

  The game opens with Rob Steiner, a prisoner at Ashdown Hole State Penitentiary, being suddenly 
 and mysteriously released from his cell. It's even more mysterious that the prison appears completely 
 empty. Yet, even more mysterious is the handgun that he finds sitting unattended on the floor of 
 the bathroom, which comes in handy for dealing with the seemingly endless waves of zombies that 
 start literally popping out of nowhere and impeding upon his plan of escape. Aside from his apparent 
 toughness and penchant for using clunky one-liners at the end of chapters in the game, you don't 
 really get to know much more about Rob Steiner or exactly what is going on in Touch the Dead. All 
 you do is shoot zombies; hundreds and hundreds of zombies. Still, this is not a bad proposition, 
 at least in theory.  

  You play Touch the Dead from a first-person perspective, but the game handles all your movement 
 throughout it, allowing you to focus entirely on the righteous dispensation of zombie death. You 
 shoot the zombies by tapping them with the stylus as they appear on the DS touch screen. You can 
 hold the stylus on the screen to unload multiple shots, though your firing rate is much faster 
 if you tap repeatedly. The zombies have different damage areas, with headshots usually proving 
 to be the most effective form of dead touching. While some zombies will sway back and forth erratically, 
 making headshots a little more challenging, shooting zombies isn't particularly difficult in Touch 
 the Dead. Much of the challenge here is manufactured, with the game's awkward reload mechanic as 
 a significant culprit.  

  Every time you empty a clip, you have to manually reload by dragging the stylus from the ammo icon 
 on the lower right-hand part of the screen to the clip icon on the lower left-hand part of the 
 screen. While it certainly injects a little tension into the game, you quickly get to the point 
 where you have to reload your clip after every zombie you take down, so you actually end up spending 
 more time reloading your weapon than you do shooting zombies. It feels unnatural and can be difficult 
 to consistently reload fast enough when you have a swarm of zombies bearing down on you. As you 
 progress through the four main chapters of Touch the Dead, each of which is punctuated with a boss 
 fight against some larger-sized monstrosity, you'll pick up a shotgun, a crowbar, and a submachine 
 gun. The crowbar, which you use by dragging the stylus left or right across the screen, is useless, 
 though the shotgun and submachine gun are potent. But unlike your starting pistol, these weapons 
 have limited ammo, which you can replenish by shooting open random crates and cabinets that you'll 
 find conspicuously scattered throughout the game. Ammo conservation can be a key tactic at certain 
 points in the game, though at other times, it seems like you have more ammo than you know what 
 to do with in Touch the Dead.  

  The reloading nonsense is a bummer, but what's worse is how little the game surprises you. For 
 example, the zombies have a knack for materializing out of thin air. After leaving a room you've 
 just cleared of zombies, you'll walk down an empty hallway, only to turn around and find that there's 
 a troupe of gray-matter gourmands coming at you. Sometimes zombies will just step into frame from 
 the sides of the screen, even if you're in a closed room that is apparently totally devoid of zombie 
 activity. Also, your predetermined path is completely ridiculous at times. You'll run around in 
 circles in one room, giving all these zombies a chance to teleport in from the zombie dimension, 
 or wherever, when the exit door is right in front of you. Why wouldn't you just make a beeline 
 for the exit door?  

          You know you're doing something wrong when wanton zombie death isn't entertaining.     
 

  The lack of zombie variety also makes the experience all the more tedious. While you'll occasionally 
 be faced with non-zombie threats, such as rats, bats, and alligators (crocodiles?) , you'll usually 
 face skinny zombie or fat zombie. Though the game cycles through a few different textures for these 
 two zombie types, you rarely see more than one type of skinny zombie or fat zombie at once. The 
 crude 3D visuals keep the zombies from looking particularly threatening, and the environments tend 
 to consist largely of nondescript corridors. The weapon reports sound weak and tinny, while the 
 various moans or groans of the zombies are repetitive and unconvincing. The crazy heavy metal loops 
 that play over the menu and during boss fights are about the only worthwhile part of the game's 
 sound design.  

  Touch the Dead is just a few hours long, though you can choose to play through it cooperatively, 
 which is perhaps the most contrived part of the game because both players will see from the exact 
 same perspective. There are some very good reasons that light gun games have fallen out of favor. 
 The decline in popularity of arcades and the need for a specialized piece of hardware for home 
 versions are certainly two big ones, but the most significant one is perhaps that the formula just 
 got worn out. Touch the Dead's folly lies in the fact that it banks on this worn-out formula and 
 does a passionless job of doing it. Switching the action from pulling a trigger to tapping a stylus 
 doesn't make up for that folly.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (29 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: mssrulez
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 30, 2008 3:06 pm PT
Review:  When I looked at all the bad reviews, I just ignored them and ordered the game because it looks 
 like the sort of game I would like. And I didn't regret it, this game is very good!
  
  Many people complain about the reload system, but once you get used to the dragging and dropping, 
 it really isn't bad. Trust me, there are so many enemies you will definately be reloading a hell 
 of a lot.
  
  There are very few types of zombies you'll meet on your zombie-blasting journey, although to save 
 time instead of creating more models the developers decided to make several skins for each. I myself 
 didn't mind this, since why would you find anything more than prisoners and coppers in a prison, 
 or anything more than army men in barracks?
  
  There are four weapons altogether. At the start you find a strangley placed pistol on a box. It 
 has unlimited ammo, but weak shots. Soon later you'll pick up the shotgun, the best weapon in the 
 game easily, but with limited ammo. Later you find a crowbar and machinegun, which are only useful 
 in emergencies. As an added bonus, these weapons are upgradable, but you'll have to scout out and 
 shoot each upgrade.
  
  Sadly, there is no scoring system. I would of liked to know the number of killed enemies, percentages 
 of missed shots, and i would of loved for the game to rate me out of 100 based on how well I performed. 
 This, however, is only a minor problem which you'll probably be having too much fun to notice.
 
  
  As the game progresses, the challenge racks higher and higher up the challenge meter. Especially 
 near the end, where most people struggle to defeat the final boss because of no spare shotty ammo, 
 the machinegun is useless and defeating it with a pistol and crowbar is only just possible. Still, 
 this is the last boss after all, so the challenge of level seems spot on.
  
  The boss battles are fun, but I won't spoil them. All I'm going to say is find and shoot the weak 
 spots, defend yourself where possible, rinse and repeat.
  
  Now, most of the complaints about this game are about the graphics because the "suck". They're 
 not that bad, the frame rate holds up well, bosses are well designed. Some people need to remember 
 that games aren't all about graphics.
  
  The game is fairly short but thanks to unlockable extras and modes there is a reason to replay, 
 increasing it's playing time. It's also fun to take out the case and play once in a while.
  
  Overall I say, buy it!!! It's fast fun, and the graphics don't ruin it at all! That's it, bye 
 bye!
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: jinjoman93
Rating: 1
Date: Oct 1, 2008 1:55 pm PT
Review:  okay... this is definately not the worst horror game i've ever played (worst one was vampire rain 
 for the 360) . This game is just awful... I rented it as one of those joke games that nobody actually 
 plays (other examples are escape from bug island) and was truly horrified. This game is like the 
 root canal of all of the ds games. there are DS games i hate (i think one is called lost in blue) 
 but this just pushes the envelope. I heard somewhere they made a resident evil DS (i never played 
 it) but it involves some gameplay rather than touching your DS stylus to a shotgun and firing it 
 at a zombie you touch with your stylus. I mean the game is just as involving as one of those games 
 where you turn over two different cards and see if they match. this is the worst DS game ever. 
 Who in there right mind would come up with a name like Touch the Dead. I mean that title alone 
 is one of the corniest things i've ever heard in my entire life (okay maybe the movie surf ninjas 
 is the most corniest thing i've heard in my entire life but this is near first) . This game was 
 horrible and the terms terrifying, horrifying, and scary are good words to describe it (i guess 
 that's why those words are on the back of the box [but because they think it's scary in a good 
 way] ) . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DJWildduck
Rating: 6.5
Date: Aug 28, 2008 8:28 am PT
Review:  This game caught my attention because the press all over the world related it to the game called 
 The Typing Of The Dead. I never tried the 'typing' one, but I knew about its concept, and wondered 
 how in the world does Touch The Dead relate to that one. In the end it turned out that Touch The 
 Dead is simply another mindless zombie-shooter that uses altered way to shot these dead abominations. 
 This time it's all about the touchscreen, and how fast you can touch it.
  
  So, yeah. The game is basically a rail-shooter (remember those light-gun arcades?) , that moves 
 your character by itself, stopping only when its needed. Your only task is to kill the zombies, 
 and kill them as fast and effective as possible. The shooting itself is based around tapping the 
 touchscreen (which is really responsive in this game) . Also, you can choose which way to go if 
 you went into a fork on your way. This alters the walkthrough a bit, but not as much to make you 
 want to complete the game one more time.
  
  There are only 4 different types of weapons: a pistol, a shotgun, a crowbar and a machine gun. 
 I don't count the grenades as a weapon, because they're used only a couple of times in the game, 
 and they don't even have their own slot in the list of weapons. For a relatively short rail-shooter 
 this amount of weapons seems to be fairly enough. You can also upgrade them during the game, by 
 grabing a weapon power-ups on your way. It makes the weapon reload faster and shoot stronger.
 
  
  The game lasts for less than 10 levels, which makes it relatively short, as said above. It'll take 
 only a couple of hours to complete the whole game, and another hour to complete the additional 
 missions. But Touch The Dead is not that type of a game on which you should spend much time. It's 
 a great time killer when you're waiting for your flight in the airport, or simply waiting elsewhere, 
 but only if you're into killing blocky zombies over and over again in some spooky locations.
  
  Speaking of blocky - yeah, the 3D graphics aren't that great in this game, even for a DS. It's 
 moving smoothly, but the models are blocky, and the textures are very low-res, so say hello to 
 PSOne.
  
  Every level (or 'chapter') is split in 2-3 locations, and after completing the last one you'll 
 encounter a boss. Bosses are huge and strong here, so that's a big plus. Some of them are just 
 big and angry, so you'll just have to feed them with a large amount of bullets. Others are not 
 that simple, and require some strategy to finish them off.
  
  Touch The Dead is not a bad game, but neither a good one. It's great for killing time, yet there's 
 always a better way to do it. Mario Kart, anyone? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Nastybedazzler
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jun 17, 2008 6:26 pm PT
Review:  This game is awesome and I find the 5.5 score that Gamespot gave it difficult to swallow.
  
  As I read in another review you'd think that pointing and clicking on zombies with the stylus 
 would be boring as all hell, but quite the contrary as this is one of the most entertaining games 
 I've played on my DS in some time. I've already beaten the game three times in just as many days 
 and I'll probably return to it again in a couple more.
  
  I agree that the graphics on this game look a little dated but they don't subtract from the gameplay 
 whatsoever. The cutscenes look like SNES rejects from Flashback or Out of this World so yeah, they're 
 bad, but again it doesn't detract from the core awesomeness that this game brings to the table. 
 There are, however just a few details in this game that could have been left out or done better 
 (mainly the annoying flying creatures and the small rodents) but otherwise I'd say this game is 
 worth every penny. I entertained the idea of picking this game up for a very long time, now I couldn't 
 be happier that I did. Excellent game guys, highly recommended. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Gamer_Torra
Rating: 7
Date: Jan 9, 2008 11:34 pm PT
Review:  The things i don't like about this game is that it goes a long way without saving, or at least 
 after you got the hand gun at the beginning, haven't got past the part after that since i got near 
 the end (i think) twice and i messed up and had to start all the way back again. 
  I also hate that i don't get to move around, It's dumb how the guy is just standing there letting 
 the very slow zombies come up and hit him, it's like he's a retard. He should be move backwards 
 (He does do that sometimes but VERY slowly) and shoot them, and keep turning around. That's what 
 i would do if i was surrounded by zombies, I'll look in all directions. 
  Unlike actual FPS's on the DS you don't get hand cramps, you can just leave you DS on a table if 
 you want a just tap the screen. I'll probably play it when i feel like playing something but my 
 hand hurts from playing too much games.
  The Graphics aren't very good, but at least it's 3D, can't really have a 2D shooter can we? there 
 is quite a lot of Violence so if your into Zombies throwing their heads at you or just blowing 
 them up you might want to take a look. 
  As for the Story? well i haven't got that far in the game but it seems just like an average one, 
 not very interesting. It's more of just an excuse to make a game that let's you shoot up a lot 
 of Zombies.
  I saw that it had a Co-op mode, it seems like if you know some one else with the game you can play 
 the Story with them, i don't get how it works, if they are shooting at the same view or maybe one 
 is viewing one way and the other is leaning against the guys back looking the other. Also the single 
 player story makes it seem like he is the only normal Human and every one is zombies, how could 
 there be another guy there? I might just have to play the story more further and see if the main 
 guy really is the only one left. I think i would enjoy this game quite a lot if i had a friend 
 i could play with since i really enjoy multilayer it makes the games i play twice as fun.
  
  Overall this is a pretty average game, but if your into to this kinda stuff then i would recommend 
 you take a look at it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DocJohnson92
Rating: 5
Date: Dec 1, 2007 8:17 am PT
Review:  I am a long time fan of nearly any game that you can mow down an army of tghe undead, and i was 
 rather excited seeing this gam advertised so i ran down to my favorite gamestop and picked it up. 
 Big mistake, i neve played a zombie game before that laft me feeling like a zombie, this game was 
 actually SO MUCH worse than LAND OF THE DEAD, for one, as youre swarmed by zombies you have to 
 use the stylis tp click and drag a new magazine into your weapon, if you dont hit it jst right 
 and not too fast or too slow, theyre on top of you and you dont stand a chance. the graphics leave 
 a lot to be desired but thats mainly due to the system i suppose. the game handles all your movement 
 but you can shoot at signs to decide left or right and to hit things such a elevator buttons and 
 door latches. there is not a big differance in the types of enemies you face and the gameplay while 
 fun for perhaps the first hour or so, goes down-hill and becomes rather tiresome. if you do manage 
 to stick with the game to the end and beat it, you can unlock a new game mode that allows you to 
 stat with all weapons with unlimited ammo, then the game becomes more of a stress reliever than 
 a shooter. while that may soulnd like loads of fun, it doesnt do enough to save the games low value. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Pangster007
Rating: 7
Date: Nov 6, 2007 5:08 pm PT
Review:  I completed this game a long time ago and have only decided to write it up now.
  
  This is a very straight forward shooting game on the DS which involves literally 'Touching the 
 Dead'. Woven together by cut-scenes, the story is very weak - you're a prisoner, something wrong 
 has happened, and the door your cell mysteriously becomes unlocked. You find a pistol - unlimited 
 bullets, mind - and these undead appears.
  
  Tap, tap, tap - shoot, shoot, shoot them to 'death'. To reload, you see a bullet-clip at the bottom 
 which you literally drag into your gun. Quite neat to begin with, but there'll be times when you 
 can't understand why it didn't manage to reload. This is where the gameplay and learning curve 
 kicks in. Completing the game is actually a test of your speed and accuracy in tapping but also 
 in how fast you can reload. You have to manage your bullets well if you reload on the slow side.
 
  
  Graphically average, objects and enemies are blocky in a blocky 3D environment but it does it's 
 job and is not too bad. There are several variety of enemies which become harder as you progress 
 and the bosses do well in injecting some variety to the game. The bosses usually involve a weak 
 point or a particular way to dodge their attacks.
  
  Gameplay-wise, it's well polished but is dissappointingly short and very simple. You gain powerups 
 as you go along such as reload speed and new weapons (shotgun, uzi, crowbar) that are accessible 
 if you shoot the right switch or sign to choose your path through the levels. You'll quickly learn 
 to take advantage of your extra arsenal by completely eliminating reload time - by switching weapons. 
 And this is when you sort of 'cheat', by reloading and quickly changing weapon immediately after 
 (with D-pad) , you completely remove reloading time. You can continuously shoot without being vulnerable 
 in reload animations.
  
  Anyway, where this game truly shines is in the WiFi Co-op mode. This game supports 2 players and 
 is a real blast as you shoot zombies together - and comparing each other stats. However, any enjoyment 
 you find from this game is very shortlived. You are rewarded with a harder difficulty and some 
 pictures when you complete the game which is not very appealing at all. This game is not one for 
 a purchase unless you find it real cheap - but is an excellent rental to satisfy some shooting 
 action on the DS. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sherlock99
Rating: 8
Date: Nov 4, 2007 12:14 am PT
Review:  touch the dead is one of my best games for the ds not only is it rated M its also fun to play the 
 ds needs more games like this the game can be tough i had to start over about 3 times beause i 
 did not have enough lives to conuted i love the quick paced action the games throws at you the 
 only promblem is the reloading is slow but as you advance into the game you earn upgrades in the 
 reloading wont be much of a promblem anymore eidos has done an amazing job on this game i just 
 hop all ds onwers buy this game so there can be a part 2. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DaMan97
Rating: 7
Date: Sep 18, 2007 2:57 pm PT
Review:  The game really has some incredible killing, but the reloading slows you down and makes you panic 
 a lot. There are more then just fat zombies and skinny one's. Like on chapter 2, part 2, you enter 
 a room which soons emits poisonous gas. Here, skinny inside-out zombies attack you which are very 
 hard to fight without shotgun ammo. The game is propably better to do with a friend. I haven't 
 beaten it yet so there's propably more zombies then what I'm telling you right now. It'll be worth 
 your time for a little bit. Also, I heard that the crowbar was useless. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: andrewh94
Rating: 5.5
Date: Sep 14, 2007 7:46 pm PT
Review:  Touch the Dead is one of the few first person shooters for the Nintendo DS. You play it simply by 
 touching the touch screen to shoot zombies and reload your gun by dragging ammo to your gun. This 
 game is a really long game and there also many types of zombies.
  Most people would enjoy decapitating the zombies like shooting the head, hands, legs, stomach and 
 the foot. Anyway, I wouldnt recommend you to buy this game because you will get bored of the game 
 because of the lack of weapons and othersThere are only 4 weapons you can get during your progress 
 in the game which are SMG, Handgun, Crowbar and Shotgun. During the game, there are some.. cut scenes. But 
 it is really short like just 2 lines of talking and you get back to shooting. Plus, you wouldnt 
 meet any other human during the game but still.. there are quite a lot of zombies. Storyline is short 
 and boring. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: white143papi
Rating: 5
Date: Sep 7, 2007 12:35 pm PT
Review:  I was one of the few people that believed that this games was going to be a big hit. Now that i 
 have it and played it was defiantly not worth the $29.99 tag price it was given. For one it is 
 too short and a bit difficult. It would probably take you a while to beat it at first since you 
 have to memorize the sequences of zombies coming at you. But once you do it's really easy to beat 
 the game and do it under 4 hours. I can't complain about the controls because they are responsive 
 to what you do. I would complain about that you wasn't able to move at all in this game making 
 it feel like an arcade with some paths in which you shoot to go where you want to go. You get 4 
 different weapons a handgun, shotgun, crowbar and a machine gun. Your best weapon is the shotgun 
 due to power and spread of bullets, everything else really suck. So basically you are a man wrongfully 
 accused for a crime and was placed in jail. Sounds like they copied from the PS2 game The Suffering 
 with the deference was that The Suffering was interesting and this one wasn't. This game isn't 
 horrible that you should never play but you should buy it used or borrow it. For a Mature game 
 it doesn't really feel like one the blood honestly look like dirt. I don't see any brains and the 
 boss that are suppose to be disgusting aren't really that disgust. I founded that this game isn't 
 really scary at all even if you play alone in the dark, I think you be more scared in Metroid Prime: 
 Hunters in which the music makes you feel like you alone and when an enemy jump at you in surprise 
 the music drastically changes. But in this game they jump at you but doesn't really deliver that 
 scary blow. And the way the ending is it seems that there is a possibility of a second part hopefully 
 they'll make in third person perspective or at least you have the freedom to move where ever you 
 want to go. I just hope that developers take note to this game because the games formula doesn't 
 work and hopefully they won't make an other mistake like this. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: KaedeDiablo
Rating: 6
Date: Jul 17, 2007 10:52 pm PT
Review:  I want to spend a little time, playing survivor horrors games, in a raining afternoon. And then 
 I meet Touch the Dead.
  
  The best of this games, is when you are a Zombie Fan, and play this game for the first time. Passing 
 the Levels, is fun, there is some troubles with the Gameplay, but when you learned it, the game 
 become very easy.
  
  The bosses are very fun when you learn his weaks points, and I hope, that the fun to kick his faces 
 was only the first time.
  
  The sound is crap, there is a little tracks of heavy metal, but stinks...
  
  The re-play valvue 
 is crap too, I dont want to play the game again, because with one play you see everything that 
 the game can offer you.
  
  Buy it, only if you like the Zombies and survivor horror games. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: weisguy119
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 1, 2008 2:13 pm PT
Review:  I don't understand all the negative reviews for this game. The list of complaints range from poor 
 graphics, not enough enemy character models, too difficult, poorly designed reload feature, etc., 
 etc. First off, the graphics aren't that bad for the DS. I thought they were pretty good, actually. 
 I thought there were enough varied enemy designs in the game. You don't really notice them that 
 much anyway as you're furiously tapping the screen to stop the undead hordes from tearing you apart. 
 The game is a bit on the difficult side. Normally, I don't have the time, patience or determination 
 to beat the more difficult games. For some reason, this one kept me coming back. I had to start 
 over one time in order to better conserve ammunition and try to hit more leg/arm/head/belly shots 
 to stockpile hearts (health) . Lastly, the reload feature is pretty good in my opinion. Once you 
 get the shotgun and have two weapons to work with, you can switch between the two as ammo runs 
 out. It sounds tricky, but it really isn't. With practice, you can unload a clip from your pistol, 
 switch to shotgun, unload that, reload both and start over. I barely even used the crowbar or the 
 machine gun. The pistol/shotgun combo works great. Use the pistol for ranged shooting and the shotgun 
 when things get uncomfortably close. There you have it. This game is a traditional rail shooter 
 for the DS. There aren't too many of them for the system. In fact, I don't know if there is another 
 rail shooter for the DS. If you like rail shooters, get this game. If you don't, stay away. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ArmyComrade
Rating: 8.9
Date: Jun 23, 2007 9:49 am PT
Review:  i have been playing touch the dead now fro quite a while. i must say, there are way to many games 
 for the ds that are aimed at children. i personally hate stupid childish games such as mario, donkey 
 kong and all the other nintendo **** characters out there, these games have no level of violence 
 and no level of fun. touch the dead is absolutely great ! for once a violent game comes out for 
 the ds. in the game you use the stylus to shoot at the zombies. there are 4 chapters and 3 levels 
 in each chapter. unfortunately, the one major drawback is it's crappy 3d graphics, other than that 
 the gameplay is outstanding, and the playability is phenominal. if your into little wussy characters 
 such as mario prancing around jumping on mushrooms, then this game is not for you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: CreativePlug
Rating: 6.6
Date: Jun 15, 2007 7:34 am PT
Review:  First of all, let me say that the game here isn't quite something that I would recommend for a 
 buy. I'd suggest renting it first before you decide. It's definitely a title you should check out 
 if you're looking for some quick shooter fun on the DS. But for those looking for a deeply thought 
 out control scheme or story... well, it's best to just keep looking.
  
  Touch the Dead isn't a horrible game, but it's not a great game either. Most of the charm of the 
 game really seems to come more from memories of being in the arcade, pumping coins and feverishly 
 shooting anything that moves, (including poor innocent by standards) than the actual gameplay.
 
  
  Anyway, this title definitely has more potential than what was included. I think the developers 
 just wanted to make something that you could just pick up, play for a few minutes... and then maybe 
 put down after a while. The infamous pick up and play type genre that seems to work so well with 
 the DS. If you want, you can of course breeze through the game in a few hours.
  
  It's not a very hard game, although it can get frustrating at times, most so due to the simultaneously 
 uncomfortable and challenging reload mechanism. You have to slide the magazine or, ammo from the 
 right side of the screen to the left (in right handed mode... other wise it's from left to right 
 in left handed mode) .
  
  The visuals of course are lacking... very much so. I feel like I'm playing an old Playstation game 
 more than anything... but... there's nothing wrong with that. I loved those old creepy shooters on 
 the PS. But what seems to make this game lack more than visuals or cumbersome reload mechanics 
 are the environments. Most of the time they're pretty bland. For a while I thought I would never 
 see an outside area and wished to be out of the confined indoors.
  
  But then once I actually got outside... it didn't seem to be much better ;) I think that perhaps 
 if more time were taken into also making the enemies come out of more logical areas (they seem 
 to just come out of nowhere) it would have given the environments a bit more credibility and maybe 
 would have driven the team to make them more dynamic.
  
  But again, for what it is, a rail-shooter... Touch the Dead isn't so bad. Hopefully this type of 
 gameplay will open up doors for other titles to take what TTD did, and improve on some story and 
 gameplay. I think a Resident Evil title like this would be pretty awesome if done right just right 
 :) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pizzamanopenup
Rating: 4
Date: Jun 22, 2008 10:54 pm PT
Review:  What happens when Eidos and Dream On get together to make DS games? Well, we really don't know 
 at this point, as there's only been one, but if Touch the Dead is any sign of things to come, try 
 to steer clear of any more of either company's games for the DS.
  
  The game starts in Ashdown Hole State Penitentiary, where the main character, a generic prisoner 
 named Rob Steiner, framed for a crime he didn't commit, is about to be transferred. Too bad for 
 him, his cell door falls open in the middle of the night and he uses it as a chance to escape. 
 He soon finds out that everyone in the immediate vicinity has been turned into blood-thirsty zombies. 
 The game takes off from here as soon as Rob finds a handgun. You move around levels without the 
 option to choose where you want to go, shooting whatever crosses your path, like in House of the 
 Dead. You can tap the screen to shoot any and every zombie that you see, or you'll die. Your helath 
 will decrease every time a zombie slashes/punches/throws something at you. You can only take an 
 amount of damage relevant to the number of health pick-ups you've collected by shooting them throughout 
 the level. One big problem here is that you have to start back up at the very beginning of the 
 level if you die. That's right. No checkpoints here. 
  
  Shooting zombies works out to be somewhat fun on the DS for a while, but there's only about 4 different 
 character models in the whole game so you'll only be shooting Generic Fat Zombie, Generic Skinny 
 Zombie #1, Generic Skinny Zombie #2, and Generic Cop Zombie throughout the game. While shooting 
 may have its fun at first, it gets old fast. Reloading is a pain with the touch screen, and more 
 often than not you'll be struggling to keep your health up. In order to reload you have to drag 
 and drop a clip from one end of the screen to the other, which will put a cramp into your hand 
 faster than you'd think. There's a bunch of different levels in the game, and a few bosses here 
 and there as well. On the down side, there are only four weapons in the game: a shotgun, machine 
 gun, handgun, and a crowbar; you'll have had your share of all of them by the fourth level. Again, 
 the entire game stops being fun very quickly, and the graphics are only 3D enough to tell what's 
 going on. The sound effects are dull and repetitive, and the music is sub-par.
  
  While the entire idea of an on-rails shooter for the DS may sound great on paper, and shooting 
 zombies is fun while it lasts with all of 4 weapons in the game, Touch the Dead is a long, boring, 
 and hard shooter that isn't worth my money as well as yours. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DaRkNeSs2393
Rating: 6.7
Date: Jun 3, 2007 11:51 am PT
Review:  Remeber House of the Dead? Of course you do, that's the game that stole your $50 in quarters. Now, 
 take the formula and slap it on the DS. That's Touch the Dead, a crazily intense rail shooter. 
 The game has NO PLOT. WHAT SO EVER. NONE. That is actually a low point, I would have prefered some 
 more characters to add the cheese, but whatever. The gameplay itself is crazy. You spend most of 
 the game tapping the touch screen like never before. The shooting is good, but the reloading is 
 a little disapointing. You have to manually take a clip to your barrel, and then your character 
 reloads. So, this can take time. But, for what the developers had to work with, it's passable. 
 Normally zombies are uber fodder, right? Not in this game. The zombies are tough. The zombies jerk 
 around, making a headshot a true test of skill and nerve. This is a hard game, and I only suggest 
 it to people who have the enduracne for the extremly hard challenges.
  
  All, in all, TTD is fun. Sure, the graphics look terrible, and there is no plot; but zombie slaughter 
 is zombie slaughter after all. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Silent_Bullet
Rating: 4.8
Date: Jun 1, 2007 2:45 pm PT
Review:  When you're looking for a few hours of zombie killing fun picking up Touch the Dead for the DS 
 is the way to go. No it doesn't hold a story that anyone will really care about nor does hold any 
 real point besides shooting zombies and seeing how far you can go. This game might not be appealing 
 to those looking for a story or some real objective besides shooting zombies. I'm not going to 
 get into the small story because the core part of this game is shooting and to be exact shooting 
 is all you do besides reloading. The game controls all your movement and yes that might seem bad 
 at first but it gives gamers a chance to pay more attention to aiming and shooting instead of where 
 to go. You do get some movement choices such as shooting an arrow sign to go left or right in some 
 spots, however in general it's all automatic.
  
  The audio on this game is pretty good however the graphics are lacking for a game made in 2007 
 even with DS hardware. Metroid Prime Hunters is a prime example of standards DS players are looking 
 for, not graphics with such low polygons that set this game back graphically when Doom was released. 
 The game play is nothing more than shooting zombies to get to the end with some boss fights. Some 
 players experience some reloading problems, I've seen this happen myself. The main problem here 
 is when you try to reload to fast and you think you dragged your clip into your gun you release 
 to soon or don't hold down on the touch screen through the sweep process.
  
  I picked up a copy on release for $29.99 at Best Buy, to be honest I have only played it four times. 
 Not that it's a bad game, but because there are so many better games to play on the DS for 2007. 
 With a low price of $29.99 you really can't go wrong with this game if shooting zombies, and only 
 shooting is appealing to you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Nashpop
Rating: 8
Date: May 29, 2007 9:54 pm PT
Review:  Touch the Dead could have gotten better reviews if it would have been done the right way. The advertisement 
 was poor prior the release of the game and it could have used the extra push. As soon as video 
 game websites and magazines review the game you will change your mind and will not buy the game. 
 I happened to try the game for 20 minutes before I bought it and I had so much fun with Touch The 
 Dead than I have had in months with my 360 or my Wii. The reload idea is cool for the DS but it 
 just doesn't work that well in the actual game, but it should not be a reason to ignore this game. 
 As Zombies come close to you, you will have the control to aim and shoot wherever you want with 
 a tap on your screen and it will become very addicting and incredibly fun to blow their heads off. 
 Trust me.
  If you thought about buying the game I will tell you to feel comfortable to buy your copy now because 
 you know that the game is not the best looking game so you should not expect that from it, you 
 know the way the game is played so you should not expect any other than that and it's not POKEMON!!! 
 for the love of God you're killing Zombies on your DS what else would you like from NINTENDO!!! 
 don't waste this opportunity because if Nintendo opens the door for games like this on DS and Manhunt 
 2 for the Wii is for you to try them not to ignore them and close the door. Keep the door open 
 and contribute with the purchase of Touch The Dead to see others in the future of the DS or maybe 
 others coming eventually for the Wii. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: myron30
Rating: 6.7
Date: May 29, 2007 10:33 am PT
Review:  First, I'll tell you that I enjoy games and movies involving zombies, so you know where I'm coming 
 from with this review. Game Spot's score for this game is a little off. IGN's 6.9 score is a little 
 better. Because of it's price to content ratio 6.9 is a little more accurate. It would've felt 
 better to pony up the dough if it were only $19.99, but it's not. It's the regular price of $29.99.
 
  
  I was a little reluctant when I went to my local Game Stop to purchase this game. When I said I 
 would like to purchase Touch the Dead , the guy behind the counter laugh at me because he thought 
 the name was weird, it's pretty cool actually. But the other guy behind the counter said the game 
 was awesome and he'd already been playing it. That was more then enough motivation to buy it after 
 that point.
  
  But price aside, this game rocks! You know you've been clamoring for another mature game like Resident 
 Evil DS. I've heard people complain about things like the graphics are cruddy, there's no plot 
 and all the zombies all look alike. And the main thing everyone's complaining about, which is the 
 way you reload your weapon. Allow me to make a few points about this game, so please, bear with 
 me.
  
  First, yeah the graphics aren't the best, but they look way better in motion as oppose to looking 
 at still photos of them. They certainly aren't the worst on the DS. The zombies actually animate 
 quite well. They react to where they're shot. Like when you shoot them in the left or right shoulder, 
 they're bodies spin around (almost a 180) as one would if shot in that place.
  
  Second, the plot or story. It's better that there is no plot (especially for movies) , it's all 
 about survival. It's also scarier to me if it isn't revealed as to why everyone is turning into 
 cannibalistic zombies. When I'm dropped into the life of a person in a movie or a game while they're 
 just living they're lives, and all of a sudden people around them start acting as zombies do, it 
 sets a mood for me. Resident Evil (Code Veronica, I believe) ruined it for me by revealing that 
 the whole thing was planned from the very beginning. The whole time up till that point, I thought 
 it was all an accident.
  
  Third is the fact everyone looks the same, well yeah! Everyone's either a prisoner or a prison 
 guard. As far as I can remember there are 4 types of prisoner zombies, 2 skinny and 2 fat, and 
 at least 2 types of guards. I haven't made it to the end of the game yet so I'm not sure of the 
 variety of guards or prisoners.
  
  It really is a fun game to play, and it isn't as easy as everyone is saying it is. The way you 
 reload adds a good measure of strategy, because you can either empty your clip into a closer zombie 
 or reload and run the risk of him and others around him barring closer to you and attacking. It 
 adds a whole lot of excitement because there's a reload animation and it takes a second and half 
 to play out. And when you're playing it's like hurry up and reload dude, they're coming closer! 
 Without the touch screen reload feature, it wouldn't be the same game and it wouldn't be as fun 
 to play as it is right now. So I feel all of those people who are saying that they should've just 
 assigned it to one of the buttons are wrong.
  
  So, even if you're not a fan of the House of the Dead series (like me) , there's still a possibility 
 that you will like this game. I've played House of the Dead before and I liked it, but I'm not 
 necessarily a fan of the series. It just feels good to cap all those zombies one after another 
 as they keep coming at you.
  
  ... you still here? Go get your copy guys and girls! What are you waiting for? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 5UPERMARIO
Rating: 4.9
Date: May 28, 2007 6:54 pm PT
Review:  Ok lets get straight to the point. For those that dont know this game is alot like the shooting 
 arcade games such as House of the Dead etc... but instead of using a fake gun at an arcade to blast 
 zombies, you touch the DS touchscreen to fire shots at them. Here are some things I liked / disliked 
 about TOUCH THE DEAD:
  
  + Im a fan of horror movies, so i enjoyed killing zombies, mostly with the shotgun.
  
  + Some 
 environments create a sense of tension, dont know when the zombies will pop up.
  
  + You can replay any mission you completed at any time.
  
  - The graphics are really bad. There 
 is no other way to say it. Its not even laughable. The main characters face hardly looks like a 
 face. Even the bosses up close look worse than anything ive seen come out in years.
  
  - There are only 4 Weapons. One is useless, and one you get right at the end of the game. So that 
 leaves two that you use throughout the entire game. It gets boring using the same 2 weapons shooting 
 the same zombies over and over, which brings me to my next point.
  
  - Not enough variety of zombies. You will literally face hundreds of the same looking zombie. - 
 Enemies take cheap shots, sometimes there is no possible way to avoid a certain zombie from popping 
 out of nowhere to hit you. Really annoying.
  
  - This game is short, four levels, with basic environments that could be seen on a SNES.
  
 
  - The last boss is really annoying. Not fun at all , just an exercise in frustration. I beat this 
 game in one night, it was hard at first, but if you keep with it you can learn each ememies weak 
 point and beat the game easy. This game has BUDGET TITLE written all over it, tread carefully when 
 buying this game, you might not get what you expect. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Gigatron
Rating: 8
Date: May 22, 2007 5:55 pm PT
Review:  Anyone who's walked into an arcade nowadays has seen a game called House of the Dead . It's a light 
 gun game in the style of Time Crisis or Area 51 in which you and a friend can take on hordes of 
 zombies. Touch the Dead for DS is very similar to House of the Dead... and the result is a satisfying 
 one.
  
  When I saw GS's misleading score of 5.5, I cringed. This a game built straight-up for the hardcore. 
 The premise is simple: you're a guy in a prison. Everyone has turned into zombies. You find a gun. 
 That's the plot. Yes, the presentation cries out for a cheesy plot with B-movie voice acting, but 
 it fails to deliver in that aspect. But the magic starts when you begin to actually play it.
  
  It's simple. Tap to shoot. Drag the clip to reload. Everyone seems to complain about the reload 
 system, but once you master a simple swipe, reloading can be quite easy. You just drag it to the 
 bottom left of the touch screen! What's so hard about that? Shooting the zombies is fun, and it 
 gives you a bonus for variation in decapitation. There's 4 weapons in all, and you'll find health, 
 ammo, and upgrades along the way.
  
  The first thing you'll notice is that the game is packing some solid graphics. It doesn't look 
 as good as high-caliber games like Metroid, but the environments are varied and the enemies animate 
 well. I think there should have been more destructible objects. The lack of detail and occasional 
 choppiness can be easily forgiven because of the game's awesome camera. The way your view frantically 
 swings around gives the gameplay an element of excitement rarely experienced in a DS game. It's 
 not a scary game at all... but it can be thrilling at times. Fans of arcade shooters will love 
 this one.
  
  The sound is decent. The groans and ambient noises are good enough, but I would love some cheesy 
 voice acting and music. But the sound overall isn't bad. What's really cool is the multi-card co-op 
 mode. Like most arcade shooters, a friend can help you on your adventure. Unfortunately, this can 
 only be played locally. You can unlock some bonus art, too. Replay value is good because of alternate 
 paths and the co-op. Overall, this is one of those games that's a tough sell to the mainstream, 
 but if you enjoy this kind of game you simply need to get it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: D_Y_L_A_N
Rating: 8.6
Date: May 22, 2007 2:30 pm PT
Review:  If your looking at this, you probably already know how the game starts out. What I'm here to talk 
 about is the gameplay. It is nice to know that someone has thought to use, in my mind, the DS's 
 best feature; the touch screen. I admit, the games story is horrible, and the graphics aren't amazing, 
 but in my mind, the gameplay makes you forget about all that. In gamespots review, they complain 
 that it takes to long to reload. Bullcrap. It takes much less time than reloading a real gun. In 
 my mind the difficulty of reloading made me feel like I was actually reloading a gun. You start 
 out with the pistol, but soon unlock the machine gun, the shotgun, and the crowbar. The machine 
 gun shoots very fast, and the shotgun puts a little more power in your punch. The crowbar is completely 
 useless. I never used it since the pistol has unlimited ammo. The level design is also pretty bland, 
 but once again the gameplay just makes you forget about all the shortcomings. It also has amazing 
 replay value, since you can unlock special modes. (Unlimited ammo for all guns) . This may sound 
 bad, but I think the DS was in need of a new M-rated game anyway. This is a great buy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Azn_Tomato
Rating: 8.4
Date: May 21, 2007 1:20 pm PT
Review:  Touch the Dead is a highly addicitng game where you poke the screen to shoot either your gun, shotgun, 
 or sub-machine gun, as well as a crowbar. The game itself is very simple. Shoot everything, screw 
 the story.
  In itself, the storyline is pretty dumb, but hey, its just an excuse to bust caps in zombie ass. 
 There are zombies, mostly variations of a skinny or fat zombie, with different appearence and increasingly 
 higher health and ferocity. You start out as Robert Steiner, jailed for life for a crime he didn't 
 commit, and one day, a security breakdown occurs, and everyone is zombies. Each stage is up to 
 5 minutes long, and there are 3-4 stages in a chapter. The replayabilty on this game is great though, 
 so don't mind the shortness. I find it fun to go back and keep getting better stats (i. e. never 
 getting hit, perfect accuracy, etc)
  For a game made by Dream-On Studios (wtf is that?) , a random company, this game is really surprising 
 its its fun. The graphics are meh, but they suit the zombies well and blood squirts everywhere. 
 Body parts also sever quite nicely. Each place is distictly different however, and they are'nt 
 that bad.
  In conclusion, i fully recommend getting this game for a fun game that you can pick and play, even 
 after you've beaten it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: payne6705
Rating: 8.1
Date: May 21, 2007 5:56 pm PT
Review:  this game is basically house of the dead gameplay with a DS stylus it is fun and somtimes challenging 
 all you do is simply tap ur stylus on the zombie your shooting at and thats it the game controls 
 your person movements you occasionly pick where you want to go like left or right the graphics 
 of the game arent that bad almost like a PS1 game the game is compromised into chapters and at 
 the end of each chapter you fight a boss battle the problems i have with the game is the reloading 
 system which is your bullets in your gun is on the left side of your screen and your ammo is on 
 the right the only way to reload is to drag your ammo to the left and then the character reloads 
 the problem is somtimes it isnt responsive and it registers as im trying to shoot the left side 
 of the screen and somtimes i cant drag it fast enough because there are 5 zombie hitting me another 
 problem is the hit system the system is you have 4 hearts if you get hit one heart is gone then 
 you have a number under the hearts each number means how many lives you have left (1 life = 4 hearts) 
 the problem is those numbers stay with you the whole game there are save points but if you get 
 a game over you start all at the begining another problem is there really isn't much guns in this 
 game there are only 4 one is a pistol with infinite ammo a shotgun with limited ammo, a crowbar, 
 and assult rifle and thats it and the last problem won't bother some people but it bothered me 
 the cutscenes in the game has no voices at all its just all text which is ok but when you see it 
 you would pefer some type of voice acting other than that this game is plain fun with shooting 
 diffrent arrangments of zombies, half rats, bosses, and robots if your a zombie fan then this game 
 will please if you wnt a fun game then this game will please if you want a deep game then you wont 
 be happy it even includes wireless multiplayer with a friend who owns the game i haven't played 
 it but it sounds fun 
::::::

::::::
UserName: steff3121
Rating: 7.7
Date: May 19, 2007 10:21 am PT
Review:  Touch the Dead is one of those games whose difficulty would be obscene in any other game. Other 
 games are not meant to be so difficult as to send you to a gameover screen every two minutes, or 
 to cussing regularly. But, this game is correct to be so difficult, as it is modeling the arcade 
 shooters. True to its predecessors, Touch starts out with a relatively easy level, but picks up 
 the pace EXPONENTIALLY the next. The fact that the game saves after the completion of a section 
 is a nice bonus, as you can play as many times on that save as you wish, instead of inserting coin 
 after coin.
  
  The game is simple; tap the place on the screen that you wish to shoot, and you will. Drag and 
 drop ammo in the clip to reload. Like most arcade shooters, you can get different types of weapons, 
 including the standard infinite ammo pistol, the shotgun, the machine gun, and a crowbar. That's 
 right. The crowbar is the one exception to the point and shoot rule; you must drag the stylus from 
 right to left or vice versa, but you CANNOT go up and down, or down and up. This makes it tough 
 to nail a kill hit with this weapon. You can upgrade the weapons by finding a silver, floating 
 box with apicture of the gun on it. Some you will find automatically, and some you need to take 
 a specific route to find.
  
  True to the gameplay, the story in Touch is also simple. You are a prisoner, incarcerated for a 
 crime (murder) you did not commit. You are in Ashole prison, and it is the day of your transfer 
 when the door to your cell is mysteriously unlocked. You stroll out, and find a gun nearby. After 
 that, you must blast your way through this prison, as well as a few other locales. There are some 
 boss fights sprinkled around, but not many, and the character is never really developed (the only 
 way you know his name is if you read the manual) . Still, any excuse to shoot zombies is a good 
 one, right?
  
  The game does have some shortcomings. A glaring one is the drag and drop reload technique. The 
 game may misread your placing the stylus on the screen to grab the ammo as a shot, and that can 
 be costly. Weapons reload slowly, until you get the reload upgrade (if you can find it) , and some 
 of the environments are recycled to an extreme. The graphics are nothing to write home about, and 
 the music sucks. The sound effects sound like they should, but are nothing special. The replay 
 value is that you can unlock harder modes, one with all weapons at unlimited ammo, and you can 
 get some concept art by going through the game and finding the secret boxes. Since this is on rails, 
 however, it's hard to get a second shot at something if you misse it the first. My biggest complaint 
 is that, if you die, you start at the beginning of whatever level you died in. This means that 
 if you were about to kill the last boss, he may get a lucky hit, and make you have to fight your 
 way to him all over again. Aside from the complaints, this is a solid game, and is very fun and 
 addictive. You'll finish it, and you might not want to do it again, but for zombie games on the 
 DS, you only have Resident Evil DS as your other choice. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GamerNY1
Rating: 8.9
Date: May 17, 2007 9:08 pm PT
Review:  I bought this game for the FPS and th zombie aspects both found as soon as you start up the game.
 
  Also found are some less than stellar graphics but, this is an FPS on the DS and it's got really 
 fun gameplay.
  If you're a fam of House of the Dead then, yes get this. If you want to try something different 
 then, also, get this.
  The story here is a simple one, you aer wrongfully imprissoned for a crime you did not commit... 
 Suddenly everyone is a zombie and you're cell door is open. Go find a gun and start getting some 
 head shots.
  That's where I'm up to in the game... but, I like it so much I had to write a review.
  Have fun 
 with this oneand all your games...
  Game on!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: _Hellgiver_
Rating: 8.9
Date: May 17, 2007 8:32 pm PT
Review:  I have always been a huge fan of House of the Dead. I even got it when it came out on Dreamcast. 
 There haven't been enough rail shooters out, I think. This game is a step in the right direction. 
 This game is a good idea for the DS's touch screen. The only problems you really face come with 
 reloads. To reload, you are required to grab the clip on the lower right side of the touch screen 
 and drag it right onto the current clip on the lower left. If you let go without dragging it almost 
 perfectly, you'll not get the reload and will have to try it again. But the biggest problem, and 
 you will without a doubt have this happen more than once, is that you will try to grab the clip 
 but instead you will have missed it barely and instead shoot your last few bullets in your current 
 clip. This will usually happen when you see an opportunity to reload after phasing an enemy. Then 
 you will be screwed because you have to reload because you will now be completely out of ammo and 
 the enemy will have recovered and start to hit you again. Another problem is that you have to make 
 your life and ammo last throughout the entire game. Only the pistol has infinite ammo, and your 
 other guns are used usually to get you out of tight spots when you need lots of damage all at once. 
 This said, you may have shot a little bit too liberally in a previous chapter and then the game 
 saves. Or you will have just barely gotten out of a chapter by the skin of your teeth, with most 
 of your health taken. The game will still save and you will be stuck with that health and that 
 current ammo. As you move through the game, you have to use more cheap means of killing enemies 
 with your pistol, or you have to just bring out the shotgun to finish off some of the enemies. 
 If you run out of shotgun ammo, god help you because of the difficulty in later stages. The music 
 in the game is enjoyable, especially the menu and boss battle music. The sounds are also quite 
 well done. The graphics are not that bad for the DS, but I would still have liked to see better, 
 since I have see the DS pull off quite good graphics in other games. The control in the game is 
 different from most DS games I think, since all your control is on the touch screen. The game is 
 lenient on many of your shots and lets some of your shots count even though you know there was 
 no way it would have actually hit. This usually happens in long range shooting. I like how the 
 game gives you results in how you killed enemies in order to give you more health every level. 
 You get 2 more bars of health for every category you pass. At the end of each chapter your results 
 are tallied as amputations: headshots, legs, body, and arms. The only problem is that you do not 
 know what your goal is in each category until it tallies it up. Your goals seem quite random and 
 so your only choice is to just shoot everything everywhere. If you think you have been killing 
 too many enemies with headshots, start going for some legshots. Also a common one I miss is arm 
 shots since they aren't a common area you shoot. I have found the game to be quite addictive, but 
 would have preferred it to give the choice to start again at a closer checkpoint. I also would 
 have liked there to be a scoring system that you could use to unlock things or to upgrade your 
 weapons manually. Also I would have liked the game to be longer and for you to have a larger array 
 of weapons. I really want to find a friend who has the game so I can play multiplayer, but it looks 
 like you have to be near each other to do it. Overall, I am happy with my choice to buy this game. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Rev_Cletus
Rating: 7.6
Date: May 16, 2007 10:51 pm PT
Review:  Aside from this banal concept, the remaining game is very playable in this form. The overall experience 
 is much less an FPS - as you would think it is - and plays much more like 'House of the Dead', 
 light-gun style. The main player has no control over the character movement, as you're incessantly 
 guided down long corridors that all look grossly familiar. Often, swarms of ten or larger will 
 flood the screen, lurching or running as the pacing dictates. The game handles this deftly, with 
 ner' a lag or hiccup, but there is one HELL of a difficulty spike after the first part of the first 
 level. I started on medium and had to go back on easy - not something I'm prone to doing. I have, 
 however turned the sound off- there's three samples of zombie screams, which, strangely enough, 
 sound like pitched variations of my grandpap hawking up a loogie. On top of that, I've heard better 
 gun noises after granny breaks out the baked beans at a family picnic.
  
  As far as controls go: again, very simplistic. Aiming and shooting takes a few minutes, but is 
 otherwise very logical and works well. The touch-drag-and-drop for ammo reload concept often wastes 
 time, though, as shots are fired off to the side of the screen (or you continue to shoot an unloaded 
 weapon while swearing at the DS) leaving the player wide open for a royal trouncing. Multi-player 
 is as it does: local wi-fi is seamless, but, man, would I love me some online! Minimal bonus features 
 also have that strapped-on feel.
  
  All in all, this gives what it should: frenetic pacing allowing players to shoot zombies with minimal 
 storyline. To boot, it's pocket sized, and on the same system Mario and the good Princess have 
 graced. For a developer that hasn't published anything big yet (as much as I love any game with 
 'Nutz' in the title...) , this is a great stab into gaming. Worth the thirty dollar investment for 
 zombie fans, 20-25 for the rest. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
