-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Touch Detective 2 1/2
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/ds/adventure/touchdetective212/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 Wonderfully insane dialogue.
 Fantastic art style and direction.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 Entirely linear gameplay makes for no replay value.
 Frustratingly bizarre puzzle design that makes no sense in a world that makes no sense.
 Lots of reused artwork, animations, music, and locations.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Oct 23, 2007
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 5.5
Critic Score: 7.1, 12 Review (s)
User Score: 8.1, 58 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Atlus Co.
Developer: BeeWorks
Genre: Adventure
Date: Oct 9, 2007
ESRB: Everyone

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Touch Detective returns with wacky new adventures and a fresh coat of paint, but the frustratingly 
 esoteric puzzle design is the same as before. 

  Less than a year has passed since the release of the first Touch Detective. In that time, the dearth 
 of good point-and-click adventure games hasn't exactly improved, which is a shame because that 
 genre seems so well suited to the DS. Touch Detective 2 1/2, whose name is clearly inspired by 
 the  Naked Gun  series of spy spoof films, has arrived to attempt to fill this void, but unfortunately, 
 it doesn't do a very good job. Suffering from the same frustratingly incoherent puzzle design as 
 its predecessor, it also manages to reuse a great deal of artwork and music, making it seem much 
 more like Touch Detective 1 1/2 than a true sequel.  

  Fans of the first game will be pleased to know that virtually every character makes a return. Mackenzie 
 is a young detective with an obsessive-compulsive disorder that requires she touch everything and 
 record her reactions in a journal. She also specializes in investigating generally straightforward 
 cases in entirely incomprehensible ways. Her friends Chloe and Penelope always seem to be involved, 
 for better or worse, as does her creepy manservant-slash-parental authority-slash-personal MacGyver 
 Cromwell. Together, they fight crime and have adventures! Unlike their original outing, the five 
 cases in Touch Detective 2 1/2 bear some resemblance of continuity and are connected by the poorly 
 named Cornstalker, your self-proclaimed nemesis. He is apparently on a mission to steal all of 
 the local treasures but not without politely sending you a notice of intent beforehand. Helping 
 out -- or more often not -- is Inspector Daria, a bumbling police officer who has dedicated her career 
 to capturing the dastardly thief. Unfortunately, the combination of her penchant for stylized poses 
 and severe back problems tends to land her on the bench. Thus, the Cornstalker's deus ex machina 
 abilities to appear as anyone and disappear at will don't make things any easier for her.  

           Once again, Mackenzie's inner thoughts are portrayed on the top screen and the action 
 unfolds below.      

  To solve her cases, Mackenzie must wander around the town's various locations to investigate them 
 for clues or question possible witnesses and suspects. She begins with three familiar settings 
 to search: her detective agency, the shopping plaza, and the condominium, but throughout the course 
 of the game, she will unlock four new locations. Once more, the stylus is your primary instrument 
 of inquiry because you will touch it to the screen to examine specific objects, manipulate the 
 items in your inventory, and control Mackenzie.  

  Your cases will range from the theft of the entire town's supply of colored noodles to the disappearance 
 of a silver homunculus' voice. Each one of these cases is chock-full of wonderfully insane dialogue 
 and non sequiturs. The problem, which was coincidentally one of the biggest issues the original 
 game suffered from, is that the solutions to the puzzles themselves are also highly antilogical 
 and counterintuitive. For example, one minicase you are presented with by Cromwell is to procure 
 a hotcake for him, which you must create by microwaving a slice of shortcake. Even if you are comfortable 
 with "thinking outside the box" and occasionally folding said box into a hat that you wear on your 
 feet, prepare to be frustrated to the point of rage by some of the more obscure puzzles, which 
 somehow manage to cease making sense even in the context of Touch Detective's nonsensical world. 

  To further complicate things, Touch Detective is an entirely linear game. While this is a problem 
 systemic of the adventure game genre itself, when combined with the completely bizarre puzzles 
 and their equally peculiar solutions, it creates a nearly unforgivably ridiculous game experience. 
 Often, something as simple as selecting a specific dialogue choice or examining a 10-pixel-squared 
 object is all that's needed to trigger the next story-progressing event in an entirely different 
 location. This leads to occasions where you will go around to every available location tapping 
 on everyone and everything sometimes multiple times before you figure out that you were actually 
 supposed to build a crown out of a flower patch to give to the vertically challenged food vendor. 

  While the expanded list of locations provides a nice degree of variety to test your sleuthing skills, 
 it actually compounds this problem by casting a progressively larger net in which you must search 
 for clues as the game progresses. Furthermore, each of Mackenzie's five cases is of varying difficulty 
 that essentially depends entirely on your luck. Your sidekick Funghi sometimes helps out by alerting 
 you when important clues are nearby, but he only seems to do this a couple of times. Ultimately, 
 the best parts of the game occur when you are actually confined to a relatively small location 
 because they tend to focus more on actual detective skills and legitimate clue-hunting techniques 
 rather than random chance.  

           Interrogating the eclectic cast is something that will surely take up a great deal of 
 your time.      

  If there's one area where Touch Detective stands out, it's in the characteristic art direction 
 that seems to borrow one part from anime and two parts from  Tim Burton's The Nightmare Before 
 Christmas . Every character is stylistically rendered in a way that's simultaneously cutely endearing 
 but also disturbingly creepy, with thick black outlines, pale palettes, and dead eyes. The "normal" 
 main characters are joined by a cast of truly abnormal skeletal townsfolk (their mouths locked 
 in what appears to be a perpetually silent scream) , a shark-man, a duck-woman, aliens... the list 
 goes on. These characters are all lively, animated, highly detailed, and as mad as a March hare, 
 serving as the one-stop location of the game's charm, as well as the story's impetus.  

  Overall, fans of the original game will be pleased to discover more of the same quirky gameplay 
 and will not be disappointed by how closely Touch Detective 2 1/2 sticks to its guns. The witty 
 dialogue and fantastic art style go a long way toward making it an enjoyable experience. However, 
 the entirely linear story and insanely esoteric puzzle design takes out most of the fun. These 
 reduce it to a mindless pixel hunt with little-to-no replay value and make it an ordeal best left 
 to diehard fans or adventure game aficionados.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (4 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: hintaki
Rating: 7.5
Date: Dec 21, 2007 7:55 pm PT
Review:  Well Touch detective is a really cute game for the DS. It's fun and new the graphics are good same 
 as the first one as well for the music is the same. New characters and new towns to explore. Funny 
 as ever and it's real easy game. The characters always make you laugh and it's real silly game 
 for all ages. It's almost like Phoenix wright but for more younger kids. Now you explore new areas 
 and meet new people too help out. Now you able too choose songs and see what you collect in each 
 episode. Even the new character is cute, funny. But everything is quite the same nothing new only 
 few been added. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pik-ku
Rating: 7
Date: Dec 8, 2007 12:51 am PT
Review:  Still as weird as ever, Touch Detective 2 1/2 still resolve around the Touch Detective, Mackenzie. 
 In the first game she finally got her title as a detective (touch detective) but because of some 
 incidents she has to rewrite the touch list. And so, the game begun...
  
  The first one is tutorial, just like the 1st game, we have to find the key to unlock the door. 
 As the game advance with impossible and never-thought-about cases you could collect the touch list, 
 sounds, pictures, and etc.
  
  Basically the control is same as the first game and it's a weird but attractive game with innovative 
 ideas for a detective XD. 
  It'll be boring to play it over after you've known the secrets 
::::::

::::::
UserName: NeroeXIII
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 20, 2007 11:03 am PT
Review:  The first time I tried this game (Touch detective 1) i couldn't BELIVE how boring it was.. But this, 
 this game has turned it allll around. the characters are ADORABLE and will keep you coming at this 
 just to hear them say theyre phrases over and over again. anyway the gameplay is pretty good a 
 bit on the boring side after a while, but for the time being it was great. Also the sound fits 
 the mysterious mood perfectly. it's almost like your emmirsed into it. Although it's not very memorable 
 as your focusing more on the gameplay then the sound, or at least I am. Well anyway that was my 
 review, and MY opinion 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MangoLlamas
Rating: 10
Date: Jul 19, 2008 1:35 am PT
Review:  Touch Detctive 2 still features the same old random and wacky formula that should be credited for. 
 The game involves more luck than it does thinking, though it is certainly possible to have a moment. 
 The controllable character is named Mackenzie, who has evolved as a detective from the previous 
 game, but is still looked upon as a nuisance. Pros:
  
  Funny dialogue and humor can be found everywhere, character designs and overall graphics are imaginative 
 and innovative, Depending on your standpoint on random this game packs plenty of it, Beautifull 
 scenery, Plenty of "Who dun it?" action. Stories create new trails and brainstorming paths.
  
  Cons:
  
  The game could have done equally well on the GBA (No need for stylus or top screen) , 
 complete lack of multiplayer, Sometimes harder than the hardest riddle or puzzle in Zelda, random 
 to a high extent, Can take a while if you aren't a lucky one, Can get boring and annoying when 
 a problem feels impossible.
  
  Overall:
  
  Overall the game features plenty of bizzare-o and funny characters such as Chloe or Daria. The 
 game doesn't believe in hints unless its a tutorial so don't go looking for hints, stick with the 
 trail. Sometimes random for example: If it wasn't for luck, who would ever think of heating up 
 a fire by blowing through a dart shooting stick? Plenty of awsome scenery and characters add incredible 
 visuals to the overall gameplay, and you know theres always something around the corner of the 
 corner... For it's randomness and craziness, graphical value and gorgeuos items, for Funghi your 
 little mushroom like assistant, i rate this game 10/10 just because i am indeed a fan of the series! 
 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
