-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Trace Memory
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/ds/adventure/another/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 Inventive use of DS features for puzzle-solving.
 Involving storyline.
 Nice puzzles and not-too-obvious clues.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 Quite short.
 No real extras to extend value.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Sep 26, 2005
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 7.2
Critic Score: 7.3, 62 Review (s)
User Score: 7.9, 1,233 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Nintendo
Developer: Cing
Genre: Adventure
Date: Sep 27, 2005
ESRB: Teen

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Trace Memory serves up an interesting story with a handful of inspired puzzles that are all too 
 quickly conquered. 

  Adventure games of any sort seem few and far between these days, and handheld adventures are a 
 rare beast indeed. Trace Memory distinguishes itself not only through its genre, but by cunningly 
 utilizing the myriad features of the Nintendo DS to create, at its best moments, a uniquely involving 
 experience. These moments are all too fleeting in a game that has a very short lifespan, and while 
 there's a nice little story and some flashes of brilliance in the design, it's all over far too 
 soon.  

          Be prepared to look at puzzles from all angles, as the solutions aren't always cut and 
 dried.     

  The events in Trace Memory revolve around one Ashley Mizuki Robbins, age thirteen, who on the eve 
 of her fourteenth birthday boards a ferry for the ominously named Blood Edward Island. After believing 
 her whole life that her parents are dead, she receives a package in the mail with an electronic 
 device and a note from her father, summoning her for a meeting. The machine is a Dual Trace System 
 (you discover exactly what that means later on) or DTS, and it's attuned specifically to Ashley 
 and no one else. What the device does, its relation to her parents' research into memory, and the 
 truth about what happened to her father are only part of her journey. When she arrives on the island, 
 she encounters "D," the ghost of a young man with a strange rune on his chest and no memories of 
 his previous life. The two become companions for an adventure that leads them not only into the 
 depths of the sprawling Edward mansion, but also into the clouded past of their own memories. The 
 story does a good job of keeping things engrossing, with plenty of little tidbits for you to discover 
 about Ashley and D, and matters are helped along by the gameplay.  

  You'll move Ashley around on the bottom screen of the DS using either the D pad or the stylus, 
 and as you wander around the simple 3D environments, static and more detailed views will appear 
 on the top screen in 2D. When you're near an area that you can examine more closely, an icon will 
 light up that you can tap, and then the top screen view will move to the bottom, where you can 
 investigate every cranny or talk to a character that happens to be nearby. This type of investigation 
 is necessary to find clues to help you to progress, but the game is good about giving you subtle 
 and not-so-subtle hints via text and imagery that let you know when you should examine something 
 more closely. There are puzzles of various sorts to solve, of course, and the puzzles are what 
 make the game special.  

  There are all kinds of simple actions that you would expect a DS game to utilize -- some areas require 
 you to move items around with the stylus, to interact with objects, or to rub the touch screen 
 to clear off a surface. But there are also a few places that require the microphone, and a few 
 truly testing instances that use the dual screens in ways that might not occur to you naturally. 
 In fact, it's hard to say whether these puzzles are a flash of genius or simply infuriating, but 
 once you've figured them out, it's both gratifying and a testament to the DS's inventiveness and 
 design.  

  The main issues with Trace Memory are that these moments can easily be counted on both hands without 
 going over, and that the game itself is over very quickly. You could burn through the entirety 
 of Trace Memory in about four or five hours in a single marathon session. Aside from a couple of 
 minor Easter eggs on a second play-through, the game offers nothing else to help flesh things out. 
 There are a couple of endings that hinge on whether or not you're able to help D remember his past 
 life and how he came to die, but if you needed to whirl through the game a second time to figure 
 everything out, it'd take you far less time. And aside from the sometimes neat puzzles, the overall 
 gameplay is pretty simple. It's a shame that the depth shown in some of the brain teasers isn't 
 used more often, or that the title isn't meatier overall.  

  The 2D art in the game is where all the richness of detail is, with interesting environs to explore. 
 Each section of the mansion and its grounds has its own feel, and you'll be happy to check each 
 and every nook for hidden items and information. The information's not all messages like, "This 
 drawer is locked," either -- many of the items and areas have interesting descriptions that make 
 checking them worthwhile, and there's always a chance one of them will stimulate D's memory. From 
 richly appointed suites to cluttered kitchens to dusty rooms scattered with traces of their previous 
 occupants and their lives, it all looks quite nice. The portrait art for the characters is also 
 attractive, and though the top-down 3D view in the navigation screen is necessarily much simpler 
 than the 2D detail, it offers a good representation of the areas you move through. The sound in 
 the game is restricted to a limited number of tunes that tend to shift suddenly as the mood changes -- suddenly 
 and somewhat inelegantly. They serve as a pretty good backdrop, though, with a smattering of sound 
 effects to round out your movements and discoveries.  

          What, over already?     

  Trace Memory serves up an interesting story with a handful of inspired puzzles that are all too 
 quickly conquered. Fans of adventure games seeking a quick fix and a new sort of mind-bending puzzle-solving 
 will enjoy this game while it lasts, but making it last is one puzzle that this game doesn't quite 
 figure out.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (99 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: aagarcia100996
Rating: 8
Date: Feb 6, 2009 9:20 pm PT
Review:  While the fact that the game is a bit short and some of the puzzles in the game require walkthroughs, it 
 is still a good game. Trace Memory is about a 13 year old girl named Ashley who had thought that 
 her father had been dead for many years until she receives a letter from him saying that he wanted 
 to spend her birthday with him. It also says that he will meet her on a island called "Blood Edward 
 Island". But when they get there Ashley's father will not be there. When her Aunt Jessica goes looking 
 for him and apparently gets kidnapped, Ashley goes to look for her and meets a ghost named D. That's 
 the beginning. If you want to know what happens next you will just have to play the game yourself. So 
 basically, this game is pretty good with some hard puzzles and a good story. On a scale of 1 to 10,1 
 being the lowest, I say 8. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TomiPetteri
Rating: 7
Date: Oct 13, 2008 8:14 am PT
Review:  After playing the Hotel Dusk: Room 215 I was really looking forward to have a chance to play Cing's 
 previous game, Trace Memory AKA here in Europe "Another Code: Two Memories". I knew enough not 
 to wait a game equal or better than Hotel Dusk, so in the end, I weren't disappointed.
  
  The game starts off from an island where you, Ashley, come to meet your dad for the first time 
 since he left eleven years ago. By the way the game uses your birth date that you've given to your 
 DS as Ashley's birth date, so that's pretty neat. Anyways the road to actually meeting your dad 
 is long and filled with twists. Well actually not very long. The game's way too short.
  
  The story and the gameplay involves decent puzzles, pretty good story, especially the disturbed 
 history of the Edwards family is interesting and somewhat enjoyable characters. Well at least the 
 main character is C-U-T-E.
  
  Downfalls of the game is, easy to say, the length. There's also some annoying controls, for example 
 on the mini game where you need to throw the sphere to the switch. Gosh.. Also the ghost D in the 
 story is pretty useless and the music in "lets remember" parts are too high pitched and makes your 
 head ache.
  
  Overall besides the length, the flaws are minor ones and the game is very enjoyable. It tells a 
 good story and gives you a chance to put your brains into use.
  
  Definitely worth playing. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: topperdoggle
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jun 8, 2008 6:07 pm PT
Review:  I am old enough to remember the days when point-and-click adventures were the pinnacle of sophisticated 
 gaming. So I suppose that predisposes me to want to enjoy a game like this which brings me back 
 to a fun time. It seems that in some ways things have moved on, and in some ways they haven't.
 
  
  I was looking forward to the game because of some decent reviews, and initially, the exploration 
 is enjoyable, with a couple of simple puzzles to get you into things.
  
  The story is somewhat convoluted in terms of its characters, who are rather similar, especially 
 a certain family of the past. It is hard to tell them apart, because they generally have little 
 personality, including the heroine, who perhaps tries too hard to evoke emotion, but ultimately 
 left me not caring about her fate.
  
  Generally speaking, the puzzles range from no-brainers to illogical nightmares, with little in 
 the middle. I have to say that lots of the ideas are good, and the developers really have tried 
 to push boundaries. Unfortunately when you live on the edge, consistency can go out the window, 
 and some of the innovative ideas work well whilst others are quite frustrating. Either they were 
 too easy, or they were so hard (or should I say out-there) that the annoyance outweighed the satisfaction.
 
  
  The presentation is generally good, which adds to a reasonably polished, classy feel, and the graphics 
 do the job, although they are rather too fuzzy in places which is annoying when you are searching 
 the scene for items. The sound is twee and annoying, especially the footsteps.
  
  I don't want to give much away, but I also found that the pace of the game towards the end, was 
 far too linear, in that there is too much dialogue and almost no actual gameplay. I don't mind 
 linearity, but I'm supposed to be playing a game, not watching a film.
  
  So, an enjoyable way to pass time, but whether that is a recommendation or not is in the eye of 
 the beholder. It's not an all-time classic due to some flaws in execution, and a lack of real depth. 
 I can sum it up by saying that when I saw the end credits roll, I felt more relieved than elated, 
 which is rather a shame. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bluej33
Rating: 7.5
Date: Apr 9, 2008 2:53 pm PT
Review:  Adventure games as they were once known are a dying breed, now being replaced by the popular "action-adventure" 
 genre. Which, admit it, are just spiffed up action games set in an "adventure" setting. When I 
 think of adventure games, I think of point-and-click. I don't really know why, except perhaps because 
 I've never liked these third person shooters-dubbed-adventures, and because some of the first PC 
 games I ever played were simple point-and-click titles (later to be replaced by more exciting and 
 monumentally more confusing strategy games. Thanks, Civ III) . 
  
  But that's beside the point, really, because as a DS gamer I don't have much reason to rant about 
 the dearth of a genre that I love. Because thanks to Nintendo, we're getting a handful of high-quality 
 titles of this type, specifically on the DS (though it's important not to overlook Zack and Wiki, 
 probably the most underrated Wii game to date) . I've played and loved the Phoenix Wright games 
 as anybody who knows me could likely tell you, and I've an almost unsettling interest in getting 
 my hands on both Touch Detectives as well as Hotel Dusk. But before that, I decided to go back 
 to where it all started for Nintendo's handheld and rent what is the birth of point-and-click titles 
 on the DS: Trace Memory. 
  
  I'll start off on a negative note and mention that it's a damn good thing I rented it, because 
 at any price over ten bucks, Trace Memory is a rip-off. For the most part it's a fun game (I'll 
 get to that later, of course) , but one of its biggest flaws is the fact that it's so freaking short. 
 Despite the fact that I knew it was a short title, I was surprised when I approached the end and 
 saw the time logged on my file: about three hours and forty five minutes. I'm sorry, but this is 
 insane. I don't care how good your game is: it's absolutely unfair to both yourself and your potential 
 customers that could be beaten easily in a day. Admittedly, there are some difficult puzzle sequences 
 that may confuse those new to point-and-click titles, but anybody who knows what they're doing 
 could easily replicate my feat. 
  
  But I'll come back to all this later when it makes more sense, because it's poor reviewing practice 
 to launch into a rant about a game without even attempting to describe said game first. Because 
 I've now probably used the term about five or six times in this review so far, you likely know 
 that Trace Memory is a point-and-click action title. You step into the shoes of Ashley Mizuki Robbins 
 as she arrives on the mysterious Blood Edward Island on the eve of her fourteenth birthday. Her 
 father, who's been missing for most of her childhood, has mysteriously sent her a letter telling 
 her to come to the abovementioned island, as well as a package containing a device called the DTS. 
 (By the way, if you take the "T" out of the "DTS", you'll get "DS", the name of the system you're 
 playing this game on! Oh, and the "DTS" even looks like a DS! Yes, this game was created way back 
 when every DS game dev team felt they somehow had to cleverly incorporate the hardware's name into 
 the game. Thank God that phase is over.)
  
  Naturally there's a good bit of mystery surrounding this whole escapade, as your father, whom you're 
 initially told is dead (it's not a spoiler, seriously) has randomly beckoned you to this really 
 creepy, deserted island. Once there, you'll encounter a ghost by the name of D, who supposedly 
 can only be seen by those who have no reason to distrust others. He has no memory of his past, 
 save that his name is D and he's been wandering Blood Edward Island for 57 years (and counting, 
 if you can't help him out) . He'll enlist your help and while solving the mystery of your father, 
 mother, and the mysterious Trace, you're also encouraged to investigate the mansion searching for 
 items to trigger D's memories. Not only does this give you a lot of really interesting backstory 
 on the Edwards family, whom the island is named after, but by triggering all of D's memories you'll 
 get the game's good ending. 
  
  So, you'll wander around the island (mostly the mansion, actually) from a 3D, top-down perspective 
 of Ashley and D. When you come into contact with something that can be examined, an icon will light 
 up, allowing you to tap anything on the screen for more information. You'll also need to tap clues, 
 of course, and thereby figure out how to proceed through what is a genuinely puzzling item of architecture. 
 There are tons of locked doors, hidden keys, and secret passages, and the game does a fairly good 
 job of taking advantage of the DS's touch screen to do so. Your DTS is one of your most important 
 assets in the game: not only will it allow you to read DTS cards and gain backstory on your mother 
 and father's research, but it also keeps track of your inventory and allows you to snap photos 
 of anything you think might be helpful. 
  
  Merely wandering around the mansion trying to figure out what to do next is fun, but the real enjoyment 
 to be had from this game comes from the title's puzzles. They're incredibly well-designed: some 
 of them take advantage of the DS in some really unique ways, while others just challenge you to 
 think outside the box. I don't want to give away any puzzle solutions, but you'll find yourself 
 reflecting pictures off your DS screens, closing the system to use wood stamps, and tapping out 
 sequences to open up doors. What's quite cool about this game, however, is that these solutions 
 are really subtle and the game doesn't really throw many hints your way. What's even cooler is 
 that even once you've solved a puzzle, you're not done; oftentimes, solving one puzzle just yields 
 you a clue to solving a larger problem (like that dead end at the end of the hallwouldn't it be 
 great if there were a door there?) . You'll have to rely on your powers of observation, creativity, 
 and attention to detail if you want to complete Trace Memory. 
  
  Aside from the game being sadly short, which I've already mentioned to quite a degree, the game 
 does have some other problems. Firstly, there are just too many instances where the game is immensely 
 frustrating. Some gamers may have trouble with the puzzles, but my frustration with the game stems 
 from other things. For example, the touch screen interaction sometimes doesn't work very well. 
 The cursor is large in some puzzles and it's tough to manipulate certain items. For example, tapping 
 out a path on the wall wouldn't work and I'd have to tap around a certain area over and over and 
 over again to finally hit exactly where I was supposed to. Or, when piecing a letter together, 
 the edges wouldn't align up perfectly and I couldn't trigger completion, even though I'd assembled 
 the letter. Little things like this occur far too frequently (in fact, for every good puzzle there's 
 an equally annoying problem somewhere in the game) . 
  
  Another immense frustration lies in the fact that if you miss one little, unimportant item and 
 fail to trigger some insignificant memory of D's, you'll receive the disappointingly bad ending. 
 The key here is basically to examine every single stupid little thing in the entire freaking game, 
 and although it's a short title the mansion is quite expansive. To go out of your way to examine 
 items to help D remember what happened to him only to get a stupid ending because you missed a 
 single item is indescribably infuriating. And in fact, that irritating situation is the only possible 
 way you'd likely replay this game: since all the puzzles are easy to complete once you've already 
 beaten them, the only reason you might subject yourself to a second romp through the Edwards' mansion 
 is to try and find that one little item that you forgot to examine and thereby hopefully gain the 
 good ending. 
  
  I hate to go on like this, but more problems remain: for one, the visuals are disappointing, as 
 is the music. The game looks nice in the examination scenes, but the game lacks a single cutscene 
 -- everything plays out with heads and word bubbles, and a few occasional full-screen drawings. 
 There's no voice acting either -- at all -- though the music itself is pretty good. Finally, the 
 writing is surprisingly weak for a game that relies so heavily on plot. The story itself was intriguing 
 and well-done, but the writing itself is shallow and all but one character (D himself, actually) 
 are sadly one-dimensional. Compared to the likes of Phoenix Wright, which features some of the 
 funniest scripted scenes I've ever encountered, Trace Memory is fairly bland. 
  
  So, is it worth playing? (I would say "buying", but I've already recommended against that, due 
 to the game's pathetic length) . Though the flaws I've mentioned may seem to outweigh the title's 
 merits, Trace Memory actually is a pretty good game. It's certainly better than the sum of its 
 parts, and searching for clues and solving complex puzzles is a surprisingly satisfying experience. 
 If you can find Trace Memory cheap or just borrow it from a friend, it's good for a few short hours 
 of great atmospheric exploration and some really creative puzzles, though you will find yourself 
 running into a wall with some trivial parts of the game. However, shelling out a lot of money for 
 a title that's just not very well-developed is foolish, so while fun, it's not worth shelling out 
 full retail for Trace Memory. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: DianaHewie
Rating: 7
Date: Mar 30, 2008 4:49 pm PT
Review:  This was one of the games I got when I first got my DS. It looked good and the plot sounded good. 
 For the most part, I was right.
  
  All I can say is, it's a good thing I had a walkthrough for this. Some of the "puzzles" in this 
 game are so abstract... who knew the key to that door would be down the hall in that little room 
 with nothing in it on the shelf in the wine glass full of water?  . 
  
  The characters are quite "on the surface." The only one that was remotely in depth was D, the ghost 
 boy. Two endings are possible, based on how well you can help D. Playing through this game the 
 second time without a walkthrough, I got the "bad ending" and found it rather strange. You can 
 get the bad ending just because you didn't look at a certain item, making D remember something 
 with very little importance. But, he didn't remember so it didn't help him. Hm... sad.
  
  In any case, there is very little suspense or tension in this game. For being a mystery, it sure 
 it pretty relaxed.
  
  Bad points aside, it actually uses the features of the DS quite well, using pretty much all of 
 them at one point or another. The plot, although rather predictable, is fairly good. One of the 
 parts, either helpful or annoying, revolves around Ashley's inner thoughts... in the form of a chapter 
 quiz! Oh, woohoo, right? It's not difficult and if you answer something wrong, you'll know. But 
 it can either help you or annoy you.
  
  The graphics are ok, nothing really special. Most of the time, they take on an anime look, which 
 is pretty cool if you like anime (like myself) . There is no voice acting, just reading, which is 
 ok. The music however is repetitive and sometimes just annoying/out of place.
  
  Overall, however, if you can find this game, pick it up. It's a good title that got little recognition. 
 Just, as I said, make sure to have a good walkthrough handy... you'll need it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: annbwashere
Rating: 4
Date: Feb 26, 2008 2:42 am PT
Review:  If you're familiar with adventure games on the PC, then don't expect Trace Memory to be on par 
 with any of those. At best, it probably would qualify as a side quest.
  
  Trace Memory is far too short and there's hardly any "figuring out" to be done. You will come across 
 a few items in the game and will know right away where and how to use them. One of the most annoying 
 things about the game is that if you find an item, you can't pick it up or add it to your inventory 
 until after you've found the area you're supposed to use it in.
  
  Dialogue in the game is just painful and you will spend ALOT of time tapping through them. For 
 example:
  
  "Ashley...."
  "..."
  "..."
  "...!"
  "Dad..."
  "..."
  
  I would not recommend this game to any experienced adventure game player. Best for a newbie to 
 the genre who has zero expectations. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: guard12
Rating: 7.5
Date: Feb 5, 2008 10:06 pm PT
Review:  When I got this game I thought it was very cleverly made. Some of the puzzles are quite hard to 
 figure out and takes some thought process to figure out. The puzzles are mainly done with the stylus 
 and microphone. The only real problem I had was that the game was way to short. You could beat 
 it in about 3-4 hours if you try. Which is much shorter than the average adventure game like Myst.
 
  
  The gameplay works as follows.. The bottom screen is used to walk around, do puzzles, and search 
 the areas for clues. The top screen shows the scenery, the clues, and the text and dialogue between 
 the characters.
  
  The graphics are quite nice for the DS and sound is not the best but, it works. 
  
  All in 
 all, if you want a adventure game that doesn't drag on and on than this game is for you. The puzzles 
 are cool and cleverly made to keep you busy. There is also a second run through if you beat the 
 game which is slightly different from what you get the first time. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DawnClover
Rating: 7.5
Date: Nov 20, 2007 8:57 am PT
Review:  After playing Hotel Dusk: Room 215, I immediatly searched for a similar game for the Nintendo DS. 
 This one was the first to come up, as it was made by the same team, so I was really anxious to 
 get it. As soon as I found it in a store I bought it, went home and played for the rest of the 
 day. And well.. that unfortunately was it, the rest of the day.
  
  01 - STORY ||
  The story is excelent (I love paranormal stuff) and it follows Ashley Mizuki who is a 13 year old 
 girl that has been living with her aunt for the past few years because her parents have been dead 
 since she was a baby. Or are they? This question pops up because, on her birthday, Ashley receives 
 a package from her father accompanied by an electronic device named DTS (Dual Trade System) . In 
 the letter, her father tells her to meet him in Blood Edward Island, where her parents worked ans 
 scientists. After arriving at the island, Ashley's aunt disappears and Ashley finds her way into 
 the Blood Edward Mansion to meet up with her father. In the way she meets up with a ghost of a 
 little boy that calls himself "D". D has no memory of his life and asks to tag along with Ashley 
 for the sake of finding out more about his past. And... more I will not tell. || 9/10
  
  02 - GAMEPLAY ||
  The gameplay is very good. You use the control keys or the stylus on the screen 
 to move Ashley around from a 'sky'-perspective. When you go into a 'key' zone you can investigate 
 a new scene (appears in the upper screen) to find clues or items that are scattered around Blood 
 Edward Island, or to interact with other stuff. Then you have the puzzles wich are very entertaining 
 and use the stylus and microphone a lot, wich is awesome! Also, you can take pictures of the various 
 scenes and combine two pictures into one with the DTS and find new clues, etc! This is very well 
 done. || 9/10
  
  03 - SOUND ||
  The music was not of epic proportions but it fitted the ambient and style of the game really well. 
 Sound effects were good but maybe a bit repetitive on some parts, but nothing big to point out. 
 || 8/10
  
  04 - GRAPHICS ||
  This game mixes 2D and 3D graphics into one. When you control Ashley you'll be doing it in a 3D 
 environment. When you are investigating different scenes you will be seeing 3D environments. But 
 everything works really, really well and it's a truly beauty to see. || 9/10
  
  05 - LENGTH ||
  This is where it gets rough... I bough the game, and on the same day, I finished 
 it within 1 hour and 40 minutes. It is a very very small game and that is a shame since it had 
 great... everything else. Oh well, still entertaining though. || 5/10
  
  06 - REPLAY? ||
  Yes! You will be wanting to replay the game to see the different endings (I only saw one yet though, 
 I am playing a lot of other stuff... One of these days I'll try to get the other ones) . || 8/10
 
  
  OVERALL: 7.5
  
  It is a very pretty and well done game that fails specially on the length subject. Everyting else 
 is top-notch and if you like adventure games (or liked Hotel Dusk) this is a game you must not 
 miss even if the length drives you away. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MetsMan1964
Rating: 8
Date: Sep 18, 2007 10:00 pm PT
Review:  As a long time adventure game fan, I've been waiting for some good games to come to the Nintendo 
 DS platform. The Internet reviews for Trace Memory were good enough that I through I'd take a chance. 
 In the end, I was both pleased and disappointed.
  
  The game play is very much a visual story with average to easy puzzles. Of the story itself, I 
 enjoyed the premise and unfolding of the events. The game is extremely linear, which is not that 
 surprising. The characters were interesting and well fleshed-out over the course of the game. There 
 were a few turns in the story, but certainly not a Hitchcock tale.
  
  The picture capture function was a nice feature that was certainly well integrated into the puzzles. 
 I found the captured pictures overlay puzzles to be very fair with only one a little difficult. 
 The stylus works well as a mimic of the standard point-and-click of PC adventure games.
  
  As most reviewers of this game point out, the game length was just too short. The overall feeling 
 after completing the game was one of good stuff, just not enough .
  
  I would like to see the developers create another game with the same style and features, but this 
 time, lengthen the game play time at least four fold. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: fcavalanche
Rating: 8
Date: Sep 9, 2007 10:33 am PT
Review:  That games is very addicting, graphics are good for a point and click adventure, story is kind of 
 weird but interesting. Sounds can seem little annoying sometimes, but you're gonna get used to it. The 
 gameplay is perfect, i give it a 10/10. You point the evidence or item with your stylus and it work 
 perfect. Only real bad point is the value of the title. It's very short and you don't really want 
 to play once you clear the game. Also, the game use every Nintendo Ds features, you can blow in the 
 mic to clear the dust from a painting, close a little the two ds screen to make reflection, very 
 intuitive.
  
  Now, you can have this game for 10 to 15$ so in my opinion, you should buy it right away. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SnarfShady2001
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jul 21, 2007 10:55 pm PT
Review:  Trace Memory stars Ashley Robbins, a 13-year old girl who's on her way to Blood Edward Island with 
 the main objective of seeing her father and finding out a few things from her past. Of course, 
 what kind of game would it be if he just met up with you and told all as the ship pulls up to the 
 shore?
  
  Trace Memory is another in an increasing list of text-driven DS games where the objective is more 
 along the lines of solving puzzles and mysteries than battle (think Hotel Dusk and the Phoenix 
 Wright games) . As a matter of fact, in these four games, there is no battle at all.
  
  The game makes good use of the stylus for solving the various puzzles such as using it as a ------------ 
 to ------------ the -------------- on your way to the mansion. (What? You thought I'd give away 
 the answers? This is a review, not a walkthrough!) Seriously though, for example, the first puzzle 
 of the game involves you having to lower a drawbridge and there are also puzzles that I can only 
 imagine you being able to perform on with a stylus (such as throwing objects, making a cutting 
 motion, etc.) The stylus also works famously in your attempt to search rooms for clues and items 
 that you need to solve puzzles.
  
  The graphics in this game are not really anything to brag about, but I'd say that they get the 
 job done, as does the sound. The value of the game could have been higher, as you can replay it 
 as many times as you want, but if you get the perfect ending the first time around (hint: examine 
 everything and I do mean EVERYTHING ... OK, maybe this is a review AND a walkthrough) , then there's 
 no real point to additional play-throughs.
  
  Overall, I had a good experience with this game and would recommend it to others. Games such as 
 this and Hotel Dusk (and, to an extent, Phoenix Wright) are almost along the lines of interactive 
 novels more than they are games and it's definitely a different, albeit good, experience to go 
 through for any style or level of gamer. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Rizzardi
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jun 28, 2007 7:21 pm PT
Review:  Well, where to begin. This game was very easy to finish, but I had a great time playing it. The 
 History is great, and made me think a lot. But it&acute; s not an action game, so if you don&acute; t 
 like point and click strategies games, you won&acute; t look at this review.
  The sound is beautiful, just like Phoenix Wright and Hotel Dusk. The graphics are between 2d and 
 3d, just like Hotel Dusk. The game is really short, it took me only a day to finish, and was not 
 hard at all.
  I recommend you to play before playing Hotel Dusk and Phoenix Wright. Touching. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: emeraldgirl555
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jun 17, 2007 2:09 am PT
Review:  I bought this as a used game, thinking of the excellent press it had gotten before it was even 
 released in America. That was around 4-6:00 in the afternoon. By 1 that night, the game had been 
 creamed. If it had just lasted longer, I would have kept it. But the replay value was low enough 
 that I returned it to the game store for a good old long term copy of Nintendogs. The touch screen 
 use was very well executed in my opinion. As long as your screen was calibrated, you could do everything 
 fairly easily. A few of the puzzles were truly challenging, which I really liked. It can be hard 
 to find an escape the place style game for DS, not internet, and this was certainly in the genre. 
 OK, I've ratted on it enough. I did love the game. Everything in it was almost perfect in my opinion, 
 except for the length. If you take a long time and enjoy redoing puzzles, this is certainly a game 
 for you. For people like me who do a puzzle once fairly quickly and never want to do it again for 
 months, not so much. Stick to the free point-and-clicks online. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Javch
Rating: 7
Date: Jun 15, 2007 8:19 am PT
Review:  It begins really good, and it haves you interested for a while, after that you are just wishing 
 for it to take you somewhere or to just surprise you in good, but It just keeps on going thru a 
 story that becomes predictable and its also a little confusing and poor, the graphics are ok, 
 and the sound and music just ok also. What I like it the most is the kind of Anime Animation of 
 characters during the story, hope that there could be more games that looks like an anime all the 
 way. It is easy to control, not much of a challenge but the puzzles are kind of fun, and a couple 
 of them really got me and surprise me, it uses in some parts the DS capacities VERY GOOD, and thats 
 a real high in the game, at least it was for me, gets you to think of the possibilities that the 
 DS really have with a good imagination. In general this is a good game that is good just barely 
 getting of the FAIR denomination, and it is too short, but worth a while. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: JustusK
Rating: 9.4
Date: May 24, 2007 2:22 pm PT
Review:  As I read the review for Trace Memory I'm extremely disappointed. When I have to dig into reviews 
 that are good, for the games that I thought were amazing, it makes me upset.
  
  Trace memory was an awesome game inside and out. It had all the aspects you could need.
  
  
 Storyline: OMG, need I say more? This story was one of the most unique in a while. I read a review 
 saying it was the adequate of a B-movie. WHAT?! There was drama, action, suspense, mystery, and 
 don't forget MURDER. The flashback scenes are some of the best, because you only get bit by bit, 
 and you always wonder what REALLY happened to your mother and father.
  
  Gameplay: Very well done, I'd say. Some reviews said that they wanted a puzzle hint on all objects/items. 
 What would be fun in that? If that was the case, this game would be a Point-and-click adventure 
 game, and NOT a puzzle game. The whole trick to this game is to look at  
 Evidence being items or clues as to where your father is. I played the game three times JUST to 
 find every single bonus item, journal, and chip. In general, the gameplay is great... But there 
 are some unique features that need credit all to themselves, such as COMPLETE and CREATIVE the 
 use of the NDS and it's touchscreen to solve puzzles. I'd hate to spoil, but there's a part in 
 the game where the only way to get a clue from an item is to lower your top screen towards the 
 bottom to find a reflection in it. Another puzzle, you have to stamp the top screen closed to create 
 a stamp. Creative? I think so!
  
  Graphics: WOW. Was I really surprised with the graphics in Trace Memory! Having seen no reviews, 
 screenshots, or gameplay videos before buying this game, I thought I would be buying some crappy 
 anime-ish video game and expected to return it right back where I got it. But I was surprised. 
 Graphics were solid, no funky things happening, and best of all, THEY WERE SOPHISTICATED. It had 
 a unique three-dimensional feel. A bit like cell-shading, but I can't put my finger on it.
  
  OVERALL: The game has the following:
  High gameplay, and some replay value.
  Great storyline, 
 and multiple endings.
  Somewhat intense puzzles, and thinking.
  Good graphics, and creativity. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mariocollins
Rating: 4.2
Date: May 21, 2007 12:41 pm PT
Review:  As you boot up your ds and you select this game you are treated to a brilliant opening movie but 
 then you start the game and you find out it is a boring very word based game. True there are some 
 moments of genius when you use the Ds's systems to solve puzzles. The characters are dull and boring 
 and the story is very ropey and in some points to convenient. Enviroment is pretty dull and the 
 bottom screen with the birds eye view is very lacking. A very word based game where it is very 
 easy to get stuck and it is not always clear what to do. But it does have some good moments. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: darkspirit11113
Rating: 5
Date: May 8, 2007 3:36 pm PT
Review:  Even if it did have a lot of talking and pointless junk to it, the game in general was fun. The 
 graphic were good for it's time and the fact that it used all the DS's power was smart. I did like 
 the anime graphic that adds to it. The story line was for the most part clear. Even if it had no 
 multiplayer or online downloads to it, it really didn't need it. For a number 2 I think it still 
 will not need it, maybe a D story. If not leave it be, or remake it for some downloads for wifi 
 or something like that.
  
  Over all it's worth the buy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jenna_talia
Rating: 2.1
Date: May 1, 2007 10:06 am PT
Review:  I buy this game purely on being recommended by friends with them saying Oh dude the game play is 
 amazing I found no such thing. Being a huge fan of puzzle games, I thought I would like it, but 
 nothing so far. It reminds me of a horribly cliche`d B-movie. They should have done better making 
 this game, though it does have some pretty good graphics for a DS game, they could have added better 
 sound and the glowing clue aspect instead of everything being un-intelligible to the gamer. The 
 game play was horrid, the sound, almost just as bad. Since the first day I picked it up, I put it 
 down and haven't touched it since. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Bulldawg8879
Rating: 7.9
Date: Apr 19, 2007 3:14 pm PT
Review:  This is the first game I had actually bought for the DS when I got it since it was the cheapest 
 game they had at Toys r Us. The game while really doesnt have any replayability is a very enjoyable 
 game in the likes of a much easier myst type game. The games story at its most basic description 
 is you play as a girl named ashley who receives a letter from her father who she always thought 
 had been dead to meet him on Blood Edward Island and through most of the game you are looking for 
 him. Throughout the game you are accompanied by the ghost of a boy who doesnt remember how he died 
 or much else and through the game she and him remember more of the past. The story is actually 
 pretty deep for a game like this, I mean on a portable system!? The games puzzles while pretty 
 easy for someone whos played this type of game are really well done. The puzzles use almost all 
 the functionality that the ds can do. One that stood out to me is having to tilt the top screen 
 over the bottom to reflect the above images into the bottom! One thing that somewhat bothered me 
 is you cant actually pick up an item you need until your character knows you need it.. so you would 
 have to find the area where u would have to use an item then go back and find it in a place you 
 had already checked. The games graphics are problary as good as they can be for the artwork and 
 scenery but the top down view that u use while walking around doesnt look that great. THe sound 
 effects are alright i guess but there is no voices which is to be expected but the music through 
 most of the game is pretty good. If u can find it for fairly cheap and u like adventure games its 
 worth a try. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: UnknownHedgehog
Rating: 3
Date: Mar 19, 2007 11:51 pm PT
Review:  Another Code: Two Memories is a Japanese puzzle game in which you must solve puzzles and find clues 
 to advance. When you first play this game, it starts off easy, but it gets even harder as you advance. 
 This game includes such puzzles as: Turn the wheel, match the shape, fix the signpost, read the 
 secret message, throw the ball and so on. The story is really effective. As Ashley Beautiful Moon 
 Robins, the daughter of two scientists, you need to find your father who is hidden inside an enourmous 
 mansion on Blood Edward Island. As you continuesly complete the game over and over again, it becomes 
 really boring. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: melchenyi
Rating: 7.9
Date: Mar 15, 2007 4:14 pm PT
Review:  Trace Memory is one of the most interesting DS games I've ever played. It might be because it's 
 the first mystery game that I've played or I just find it's intriguing about how close to real-life 
 they actually try and bring the game to. It's like sometimes I can almost picture myself as Ashley 
 on the Island.
  
  They make use of the mic, touch screen and even creating a stamp action by making you close and 
 open the DS. Although I would have really liked it to last longer and maybe have more characters 
 in the game. But overall, it's an awesome game still! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ninjagaijin10k
Rating: 6.6
Date: Mar 13, 2007 7:06 am PT
Review:  This was really just a so so adventure game. I can't say I hated it, and I can't say I loved it. 
 The story is alright. You don't get really emotionally attached to anybody. There aren't any great 
 lines or inspiring moments. The plot is pretty hum drum. Girl reunites with her father. Secret 
 project... blah blah blah....
  
  But at the same time, it was a decent enough plot for the few hours of diversion that this game 
 gave me. I stress few, this game is short. The puzzles are mostly pretty simple. I would have smoked 
 through this pretty fast with no gamefaqs help if it weren't for a few places where you literally 
 needed to BLOW into the screen to continue. I really had no clue I could even do that...
  
  Most of the puzzles made sense though. I don't remember any rediculous item combinations. Of course, 
 most item combinations were TOO obvious probably. The item in question was near where you need 
 it, you just saw it. I was a little annoyed that you couldn't pick up most items until AFTER seeing 
 the place you need it though. For the few places where you have to back track, you ALMOST forgot 
 about it.
  
  If you like adventure games, and find this cheep somewhere, give it a swing. You won't regret the 
 time. But you won't be blown away either. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: palomaydarla
Rating: 5.2
Date: Feb 22, 2007 8:55 am PT
Review:  Ok, I won't talk about what is the game about (read the preview) , but about the pros and cons: 
 PROS:
  1) Very catchy story.
  2) Good graphics.
  3) Innovating gameplay.
  4) Very good looking characters.
  
  CONS:
  1) Very, very short play time (about 5 or 6 hours) .
 
  2) If you are gonna sell it back, it does not pay back.
  3) Puzzles easily conquered.
  4) Since the game is so short, you don't want to play it back, also because you still remember 
 how to solve the puzzles.
  
  So my advice is, if you want to spend some money (around $20 brand new) and you have some free 
 time, go for it. But you have to have in mind that this game is very short and it won't give you 
 the change to play it back. And if you bought it already, you won't get a good price for it. Better 
 give it as a gift to one of your little brothers or sisters. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: soulsdeparting
Rating: 8.2
Date: Feb 16, 2007 4:42 pm PT
Review:  Treace Memory is a great game. The story is enthralling and you do not want to put it down. The 
 puzzles are creative and at times I was simply amazed at the ingenuity of some of the solutions. 
 It also has tremendous replay value, so that once i beat it I imeediately restarted it to try to 
 get the second ending. Trace Memory is one of the best experiences I've had with the Nintendo DS.
 
  
  The only thing wrong with this game is that it is over too soon. I beat it on my first try in under 
 4 hours, and then less every time after that. The puzzles are usually pretty simple as well, but 
 that does not stop them from being fun. I picked up this game, and nothingcould stop me from playing 
 it until i beat it, the sad thing though, is that that didnt take too long. Overall, Trace Memory 
 is still worth every cent I paid for and I will remember it as one of the best DS games so far. 
 I highly recommend this game for anyone who likes good games. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Dr_Darklance
Rating: 8.5
Date: Feb 11, 2007 2:51 pm PT
Review:  Released in the US as Trace Memory and Another Code: Two memories everywhere else. Another Code 
 delves into the tragic past of a fourteen-year-old girl named Ashley as she discovers which memories 
 are real and which are false. After receiving a letter from her father, whom she thought was dead, 
 summonsing her to a deserted island, Ashley must work her way through the mansion and other areas 
 on the island to find the truth behind her father's letter. As you make you way through the rather 
 short game you solve a variety of puzzles using all the many functions of the DS. All the puzzles 
 are very clever and some will give your problem-solving skills a real workout. As you solve more 
 puzzles you gradually learn more about the previous inhabitants of the island. The story is quite 
 good and if nothing else it is unique and goes really well hand in hand with the unique puzzles 
 given. Developer Cing have utilised the DS's functions really well, forcing you to think outside 
 the square when solving puzzles. This is probably the best use of the DS's features in any DS game 
 thus far and if you have a soft spot for adventure gaming you would do well to pick this up. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Kenzo287
Rating: 8.8
Date: Jan 27, 2007 9:38 pm PT
Review:  Trace Memory is an adventure game where you guide the protagonist, Ashley, throughout Blood Edward 
 Island in hopes of finding her father, and what really happened to your mother who was murdered 
 on Ashley's third birthday. The game can be controlled with the buttons but let's face it, you 
 need the stylus. The many puzzles of Trace Memory are crammed into six short chapters, well actually 
 only five and then there is a sixth chapter just for plot progression. Early on in the game you 
 meet D, or as you soon find out Daniel Edward. He is a young boy that died 57 years ago. He has 
 no recollection of what happened to him or his family when he died.
  
  The real innovative factor of Trace Memory is how you play the game. You use every part, and I 
 mean EVER PART of the DS from the stylus, to the microphone, to the dual screens themselves in 
 ways that make you say wow! When you finish the game and tell me it's not the most innovative game 
 you've played I will call you a liar and draw a pony on your back. Did I mention the puzzles are 
 hard too? Although most puzzles can be solved in a matter of minutes there is one puzzle in praticular 
 that took me hours before I finally checked online and said WTF! 
  
  The artistic detail such as character illustrations and background images are beautifully done 
 and are easy to look at. The rest of the world (character models, enviroments, etc.) is layed out 
 in full 3D. The camera angle is overhead so it does make the graphics look a little nicer.
  
  There are several background songs depending on which part of the island you are on at the 
 time. Other that that there is not much to say about the sound in the game. Except for the annoying 
 radio that you encounter in Chapter 4. Just be ready to turn your DS volume off until you figure 
 out how to shut that thing up.
  
  The game is very short maybe around only 6-8 hours depending on how fast you give up in Chapter 
 3 and look at the internet guide and shout out WTF! After you beat the game once through you start 
 thinking about the game and realize I don't know what happend to D! So you go and are forced to 
 beat it again for a better ending. So there is the little replay value the game offers.
  
  This is a very enjoyable and innovative game from Cing and Nintendo and you can expect to look 
 for more titles like it from the developer. Don't expect a sequel since there is almost no room 
 for one. This short adventure is well worth the price of admission and is a nice gem to add to 
 your DS collection. And just in case you didn't get it from what I said earlier, in Chapter 3 you 
 probably will have to look on the internet to figure out the puzzle. It's that hard. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hintaki
Rating: 8.9
Date: Dec 31, 2006 4:21 am PT
Review:  Well this was my first DS game, this is a fun puzzle game to play. The storyline is pretty okay, 
 the graphics are good as well. The puzzle can be easy to figure it out and this game is pretty 
 short. But this game is not bad, it fun to play and enjoyable. This game you trying to figure out 
 what happen to your father, so you go to this island to search of him. You encounter a ghost who 
 helps you in your journey. You can able to try and figure about his past when you going through 
 your journey you can able to make him remember what happen to him as well, while you trying to 
 figure out about your father. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: carolynmichelle
Rating: 8.1
Date: Dec 26, 2006 10:11 pm PT
Review:  For a while there, it almost seemed like game designers had forgotten how to make great adventure 
 games. After the adventure game boom of the 90s, the genre dried up. There's been something of 
 a renaissance in adventure games, though, in the past few years, and Trace Memory is one of the 
 finer examples to come along in that time. It's also almost certainly the most unique, thanks to 
 some truly innovative uses of the DS's capabilities.
  
  The game casts you as 13-year-old Ashley Mizuki Robbins, a likable girl who has been raised by 
 her aunt Jessica and knows very little about her parents. Jessica has always led Ashley to believe 
 that her parents were dead, so it comes as quite a shock to Ashley when she receives a package 
 from her father containing a strange device called a DTS, which, as it turns out, bears an uncanny 
 resemblance to a DS. As the game begins, it is the eve of Ashley's fourteenth birthday, and she 
 is headed out to charming, picturesque Blood Edward Island, where her father has said he'll be 
 waiting for her. She quickly learns from Jessica that her father is a scientist studying human 
 memory, and that he designed the DTS she received specifically for her, and nobody else can use 
 it. Beyond that, the less said about the story, the better. Suffice it to say that it involves 
 a puzzle-filled mansion, a ghost, and an investigation into Ashley's memories and the truth of 
 her past. Some may find a few elements a bit hard to swallow, but for the most part it's a compelling 
 story that doles out new information at just the right pace to keep you pressing on. Trace Memory 
 has an unusual but very effective presentational style. On the bottom screen of the DS, there's 
 an overhead view of Ashley, and using the D-pad moves her around. On the top screen, there is a 
 detailed static image of Ashley's surroundings. If there's anything worth investigating, a magnifying 
 glass icon lights up, and you can bring the static image down to the lower screen and either touch 
 or move a cursor over anything you want to examine more closely. As in many adventure games, it 
 behooves you to look in every nook and cranny, as you never know where some vital clue or item 
 will be hidden. In some games this kind of hunting can be exceedingly boring, but the rich detail 
 of Trace Memory's environments, the simplicity of the interface and the game's relatively quick 
 pacing keep things from ever degrading into tedium. An adventure game is only as good as its puzzles, 
 and most of the puzzles in Trace Memory are very good. Most of them are not especially difficult, 
 either, but there are a few real stumpers. However, unlike in many lesser adventure games, the 
 puzzles all have a kind of logic to them, so when you do figure them out you're satisfied at having 
 surpassed a challenge, not tempted to yell, Oh, come on! How the hell was I supposed to figure 
 that out?! What's most impressive about the puzzles is the way that they take advantage of the 
 DS's features. Of course, you'll use the touch screen to do all kinds of things, and the microphone 
 to do a few other things, but a few of the best puzzles in the game implement the design of the 
 DS in extremely creative and surprising ways.
  
  Trace Memory is very attractive, thanks to the richly detailed images you'll spend most of the 
 game scrutinizing. The characters, Ashley in particular, have a slightly anime look to them, but 
 it's not overdone and helps to make them expressive, which is good considering that the story is 
 a major part of the game. Trace Memory doesn't offer up a whole lot in the way of sound effects, 
 but the music you hear throughout the game certainly fits in well with the overall mood and tone 
 of the adventure.
  
  This is not a long game at all. Depending on how long the game's tougher puzzles hold you up, you 
 could reasonably spend anywhere from about five to nine hours the first time through, and after 
 that, if you wanted to play through it again for some reason, you could probably do so in well 
 under four hours. However, what Trace Memory lacks in duration, it makes up for in quality. Fans 
 of adventure games will find this innovative game well worth their while. The experience of playing 
 Trace Memory may not last long, but the memory of it will stay with you for quite a while. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: materialweapon
Rating: 7.5
Date: Dec 16, 2006 9:25 pm PT
Review:  7/10 Gamplay: The gameplay for this game is simple. Go through an island using the touch screen 
 to find the mysteries of the island. 8/10 Graphics: The graphics for this game are good. The artwork 
 is beautiful and crisp. 9/10 Sound: The sound is great for this game. The music is really memorable 
 and suites the game. 6/10 Value: This is where the game lacks a lot. The adventure is short and 
 lasts under 10 hours for the average gamer. Overall this game is a good one. For only $20, it is 
 definitely worth it. Is it worth $30? Nah, there are much better games out there for DS. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ACbomber
Rating: 8.6
Date: Dec 13, 2006 6:07 pm PT
Review:  Before I picked up this game, I was hesitant; would it be one of those unsolvable adventure games 
 that will turn me off as soon as I start?
  
  Finally, my friend passed it to me, urging that I try it out. I must say I was pretty impressed. 
 The story was very captivating. It kept me coming back, as I continuously wanted to find out more 
 about the mystery. The game takes you in a mention where 50 years ago, a family tragically lost 
 all of its members. I will not say anymore not to ruin any spoilers, but basically the title says 
 it all. Trace Memory, you retrace the memories to understand what really happened. The only problem 
 with a game like this, of course, is the fact that once your done the story and you know everything, 
 the odds are you wont be coming back.
  
  The puzzles werent very hard; I personally found it really cool that for some you had to physically 
 use the DS to solve. For instance, you have to look at the reflection of the top screen on the 
 bottom screen (by nearly closing the DS) to solve one puzzle... It helped into making me connect 
 with the game. But other than that, the simplicity of the puzzles were a positive aspect for me, 
 since I prefer having a fluid story rather than having it chopped up by brain irritating puzzles. 
 &cedil;
  
  Graphics and sound, reasonable. Didnt make me awe, nor did it scare me off in disgust; therefore 
 neutral. Gets the story down right. So, in the end, I would definitely recommend this game to anyone 
 who likes story driven games. It's not a very long game, it took me 7 hours to get through it. 
 Apparently, if you go through it again, the story differs and theirs a bonus minigame... but thats 
 not my kind of thing to do :P 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Squall6Cloud
Rating: 5.8
Date: Nov 18, 2006 9:09 pm PT
Review:  This game is not very good. It's missing a key element, and that is fun.
  
  Graphics
  --------------
  The regular walk around top down map looks very ugly and I wouldn't give it more 
 than a 3 out of 10. The illustrations, and FMVs however are nice and would deserve an 8/10 so overall 
 I am giving it a 6/10.
  
  Gameplay
  ---------------
  The gameplay is a pretty straight forward combination of walking around, and solving new puzzles 
 to advance. There is also story to follow. The story is OK, but not that great. The puzzles range 
 from easy to innovative. The game controls are great, and the interface itself is well designed. 
 However this game is very boring, and not much fun to play.
  
  Sound
  ---------
  Nothing to brag about.
  
  Value
  -------
  It's a very short game, and although you can 
 play through with a Clear game save, the extras you get for doing so are not worth it. Especially 
 since this game is not even fun going through once, let alone twice. So put that all together and 
 it doesn't have much replay value really.
  
  Overall I wouldn't recommend buying, renting, or even playing this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: joshtheboss
Rating: 8.4
Date: Nov 15, 2006 6:42 pm PT
Review:  At first, I admit I was skeptical of trying Trace Memory. I have never been one to like adventure 
 games on a handheld, and games which defiantly praised their game of using cutting edge DS mechanics 
 is something that worries me. While other games in the genre tried to use the DS in clever ways 
 but ultimately failed in the process, Trace Memory successfully makes a great use of the DS, utilizing 
 every nook and cranny of the system to offer one of the best adventure titles available on the 
 DS. Not to mention, it has one damn good story as well.
  
  Trace Memory starts off with a girl named Ashley on board a boat as she makes her way for Blood 
 Edward Island. The story is fleshed out through a series of memories foretold by Ashley herself, 
 as well as other characters throughout the game. Basically, when Ashley was young her dad abandoned 
 her to go work on a secret experiment entitled Trace. As an effect, Ashley is sent to live with 
 her Aunt, while her dad set off to Blood Edward Island to work on his research. Ashley is now nearing 
 her 14 birthday, and was asked by her father to come meet him at the island as his research is 
 complete.
  
  If things seem complicated at first, they are. The story needs some getting used to, and the dialogue 
 seems unsettling at times, often requiring some characters to blast out total nonsense. But effectively, 
 Trace Memory does a really good job in offering a solid back-story so that by the end of the game, 
 you will feel inclined to know more about all of the characters.
  
  As Ashley arrives on Edward Island with her Aunt, she soon realizes no one is around and her Aunt 
 soon disappears trying to find Ashleys father. Ashley takes it upon herself to find her Aunt and 
 her father, and learn the secrets behind her past. You will control Ashley in a type of overhead 
 view, watching her run around trying to find her fathers whereabouts. The bottom screen on the 
 DS is dedicated to exploring, while the top screen does nothing more than show still pictures of 
 the scenery from which you are near. Admittingly, it does tend to get old very fast, as you are 
 constantly moving from place to place, and watching the top screen change pictures at random sometimes 
 feels like the game is trying to give you a seizure. Although the entire game takes place on Edward 
 Island, Ashley will spend most of her time in a giant mansion located on the back part of the island. 
 Before Ashley makes her way inside the mansion however, she meets a ghost named D, who was awakened 
 when Ashley knocked over his gravestone. Unable to recall his memories of whom he is or how he 
 died, he quickly joins Ashley as she searches for her father. D really has no purpose in Trace 
 Memory other to provide some insight and back-story for the Edwards family, for which he belongs. 
 Throughout the game you will steadily figure out who D really is, and how he ties into the Edwards 
 family timeline.
  
  As Ashley is searching for her father, she realizes that the mansion itself is sort of like a giant 
 puzzle, requiring her to go on miniature scavenger hunts in order to open the next room. What makes 
 Trace Memory stand out from the other puzzle-solving games in the same genre is the cleverness 
 and unique ways to use the DS to solve the mysteries. For example, there was a time when I had 
 to use the stylus to turn a key into a hole, or actually close the DS while playing in order to 
 copy something on the bottom screen. The spectacular uses of the DS never seized to amaze me, and 
 you will soon realize how many different and clever ways the DS can be used. You will ultimately 
 use your DS to blow, brush, poke, twist, and pull your way to the next clue. But while Ashley is 
 searching to clues about her past, she soon finds out A LOT of info about the Edwards family, for 
 its their house she is wandering around in. As you go room by room, learning new events that tie 
 into the storyline, Ashley slowly starts to remember memories of her past that she once forgot. 
 D too remembers things he hasnt remembered in over 60 years, and the story blends together perfectly 
 in such a well written script. However, most of the actual solving quests require constant backtracking. 
 Such as finding a hammer in one room and not being able to pick it up, but than wandering about 
 for 15 minutes and than realizing you need the hammer to break something and have to go all the 
 way back to retrieve it. This mindless wandering feels a bit scathed compared to the overall higher 
 quality of the adventure.
  
  Although the story is very well written and is told with a great sense of conversation, at the 
 end of every chapter players must do some sort of stupid memory test, in which Ashley recalls things 
 she did just minutes ago and you have to correctly tap the correct answer. This is seen as nothing 
 more than a lazy way of advancing through chapters, and it is really boring compared to the other 
 aspects of the story.
  
  All in all, Trace Memory is a great adventure game with a remarkable story that utilizes the different 
 mechanics of the DS. While some may get bored by the overall nonsense of backtracking and puzzle 
 solving, those of you who keep their heads in the game and get involved with the story will no 
 doubt have a good time. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: briskimj
Rating: 8.2
Date: Nov 3, 2006 7:31 am PT
Review:  When I first bought this game I was excited since its been a while that I've played an adventure 
 puzzle game since the first Mist. Apon popping the cart into my DS I was given a nice little intro, 
 not bad setting up my new adventure. When playing through the game you find that many of the puzzles 
 are pretty easy, even for the non skilled gamer. But the best attribute is the use of the touch 
 screen and basic hardware of the DS. You may find that at times you actually have to close the 
 DS to solve a puzzle or blow into the mic to help you progress through the game.
  
  I was kinda bummed on the lack of graphic quality on our main character as she walked around on 
 the touch screen, but being a DS you really can't ask for more. Also, I would hope that a sequel 
 would come out, because this is a gem of a game but way too short to be truly enjoyed. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MarioManiac34
Rating: 6.7
Date: Oct 30, 2006 7:00 pm PT
Review:  Introduction  This is my fourth review. I just got Trace Memory for my birthday, and beat it just 
 today. It is the first pure adventure game that I have really played, and I enjoyed it a lot. Though 
 it definitely has some problems, it was still a fun experience. Well, enjoy the review.
  
  Story  While reviewing the story, I will try to keep spoilers to a minimum. The main character 
 is Ashley Robbins. She is a day-before-14-year-old girl who lives with her aunt, Jessica because 
 her parents are dead, or so she believes. Then, Jessica tells her that her father is alive, living 
 at Blood Edward Island off the coast of Seattle, Washington. They travel to this island, which 
 has a mysterious past about a mysterious family. Throughout the game Jessica will disappear, Ashley 
 will meet a boy whos been dead for 57 years, and she will meet two people who claim to be her 
 father. The story is one of the strongest aspects of this game. Youll want to keep playing just 
 to find out the mysteries of this intriguing plot.
  
  Gameplay  For general moving around in this game, youll be looking at the bottom screen, which 
 has an overhead view. Then, there are certain spots that you can investigate. The top screen shows 
 the spot that you can investigate, and then you tap an icon on the touch screen to get a close 
 up there. You can then proceed to touch different objects, finding out about them, and you can 
 also sometimes find useful objects. This investigative type gameplay is very simple to do, yet 
 quite fun. There are some touch screen puzzles and other things that require a bit of thinking 
 and/or coordination, however. Though most of these work fine, a few of the coordination ones got 
 a little bit frustrating. It seemed like the controls werent tweaked in them, which mad it quite 
 difficult (in a bad way) to complete. There only a few spots like this, and the rest of the gameplay 
 is quite good. As far as action goes, this game has none whatsoever, except in cut scenes. I didnt 
 miss it that much though, and had just as much fun investigating the game world, as I would have 
 beating up bad guys in a anime fighter (you probably shouldnt compare those two things, actually!) 
 There is one more thing that I should mention about the gameplay, and that is the Dual Trace System 
 (DTS) . The DTS is your weapon for investigating. It essentially looks exactly like a Nintendo 
 DS. You can, among other things, use it to take pictures, read DTS cards, which give you info, 
 and save your game. I thought it was quite clever and somewhat humorous that they implemented the 
 actual DS into the game. Graphics  The graphics are a mixture of good and bad. When the touch 
 screen is at the overhead view of Ashley walking around, the graphics definitely couldve been 
 better. They are just not very clear, and, with the DSs power, you wouldve thought they couldve 
 been made better. Ashleys person is especially poor to look at during this view. However, when 
 you are investigating things up close, the graphics arent that bad, but they are not spectacular, 
 either. One decent thing about the visuals in this game is the character art and cut scenes. The 
 character art comes into play during the dialogue and is very nice, ALMOST having an anime look 
 to it. The cut scenes are just still pictures moving around (barely moving around, actually) , and 
 use the same art style.
  
  Sound/Music  At three different points during the game, the music can be described as one of three 
 things: emotional, inquisitive, or mysterious. This type of music fits the game very well. Piano 
 is the main instrument used in the tunes and in my opinion, for this type of video game anyways, 
 is a big plus. The piano feature that plays while the credits roll is especially pleasing. A negative 
 thing about the music, though, is that sometimes it seems like there isnt any playing. Either 
 this, or I was so drawn into the game I just didnt notice it. Whatever it was, I wouldve cared 
 for more prominent music.
  
  Value  The value of this game is definitely its weakest point. I beat the game in around 4 hours, 
 30 minutes. There are 6 different chapters, so thats about 45 minutes per chapter. Along with 
 being short, there is also no unlockables really at all. This is a big downside, as, though the 
 main game is fun the first time, I havent felt compelled to play through it again. To be fair, 
 I have heard that there are some differences in the story the second time through, but have not 
 cared to find out what they are. Basically, this game has no replay value at all. I would for sure 
 recommend renting it over buying it. If you dont have a way too rent it, make sure you are willing 
 to pay however much money for only 4-6 hours of gameplay. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kaijer79
Rating: 7.3
Date: Oct 29, 2006 7:43 pm PT
Review:  Don't you know why NDS is great machine? If you did, you should play this game.
  Definitely, you can feel yourself what NDS is. (Of course, it's my opinion.)
  
  After NDS released, 
 Various games which make full use of Touch-Screen and Dual-Screen
  that unique feature of NDS released and was given a favorable reception.
  The shock one of them 
 is Nintendogs. Of course it depends on,
  but it makes me affirmative to think about NINTENDO, even I just watched Trailer.
  
  When I 
 played Trace Memory, I got a difference shock from Nintendogs.
  I could guess potential of NDS through the trailer of Nintendogs,
  then I confirmed potential 
 of NDS through the Trace Memory.
  
  Why is it great?
  
  The basic rule of this game is Point and Click Adventure. 
  It's the typical pattern of Japanese 
 Adventure, click a mouse, select, watch a screen,
  read script and the end, like that.
  
  But, in the feature of NDS Machine, instead it was not played by a mouse, it was played by a Touch-Pen.
 
  it's simple difference between a mouse and a touch-pen, but the influence of the difference is 
 very huge.
  
  The mouse control that give the wrist a power by force is that it can't request by force why the 
 feature.
  But, the touch-pen control support a convenience interface which is far from that.
  it's the 
 time to confirm power of Dual-Screen and Touch-Screen.
  
  But best thing is to appear the unique puzzle.
  
  it used the Touch-Screen, we should fold 
 NDS, we can solve the puzzle, and
  it used the Dual-Screen, we should use upper screen and lower screen, we can solve the puzzle,
 
  and how can they create the puzzle which was solved to use include Mic.
  
  Of course there are simple puzzles and confusion puzzles,
  but to make puzzles such like this, 
 this game is not simple Point and Click Adventure.
  
  In my case, I got a shock from the puzzle to stamp a seal, and the puzzle to blow dust.
  
  
 but, you know, if we try a new thing, we always miss another things.
  
  this game miss the story line.
  
  The prologue made a player exciting, but the conclusion left 
 him with a sense of futility.
  and i don't understand why two memories appeared unnecessariness.
  
  Past memory was moved 
 by D and the memory which Ashley has.
  I think two memories didn't relate to each other.
  and if it has, i get a feeling to set to story by force.
  
  That's why the story is vague. 
 Instead of that, I supposed if it has one story line, it's better than now.
  
  This game was a little bit boring which a Point and Click Adventure has, but whenever you solved 
 each puzzle, you will be suprised from the idea. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: LOZFAN6537
Rating: 8.8
Date: Oct 26, 2006 8:50 am PT
Review:  If your looking for a good adventure game for the DS you've found it. However if your looking for 
 a long game to spend lots of time with Trace Memory is not the game for you. the game puts you 
 in place of a thirteen year old girl named Ashley. who is on a boat with her aunt Jessica going 
 to a deserted island to see your father who you thought to be dead. But if you thought you were 
 gonna be reunited with your father right away boy were you wrong. The game starts out on a dock 
 in Blood Edward Island where all the games events take place. The dock is where your father said 
 he would meet you and of course he isn't there. Soon Jessica will run into the jungle to try and 
 find him leaving you to wander around you soon meet a ghost named D. thats it just D. And for the 
 rest of the game you'll be wandering around with D. One of the best things this game has to offer 
 are the puzzles. They are quite challenging and very unique you have to combine pictures with the 
 DS I mean DTS your father gave you you'll also have to blow into the mic at times. Onto the graphics 
 the graphics are pretty good for a DS game they look slightly blocky when Ashley and D. Are running 
 around but other than that solid graphics. Soundwise the same I don't use the sound because got 
 annoying there is no voice acting either. There is not that much value because it is such a short 
 game but you could play through the game again to see some of the puzzles again. I highly recomend 
 that at least rent it if you can find it cheap you should buy it because this is a great game any 
 DS owner should try.
  
  ~LOZFAN6537 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Suraj182
Rating: 6.3
Date: Oct 11, 2006 8:02 am PT
Review:  When I opened this, it wasn't what I was expecting. For starters there are a lot of places you 
 can go to, items you can pick up, but nothing to do :S
  
  Then when you get to the graveyard you meet D.... a ghost. He stalks you throughout the game as 
 you find out his past. The puzzles are hard but quite fun. Just the thing is the game is easy, 
 the game is so short and its just too simple. However the graphics are pretty good. So just go 
 to Blockbuster, rent it out for a bit and give it back once your done. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sokuni
Rating: 8.2
Date: Oct 10, 2006 1:21 am PT
Review:  Welcome to Blood Edwards Island!
  
  A creepy name isn't it? Well, that's only because the island has a rather dark past, but for that 
 I'm not going to tell you any more, because it's part of the essence of the game, to find out the 
 secrets of the island.
  
  Trace Memory is also known as Another Code: Two Memories, and that's the name it's on here in Europe 
 and in the rest of the world besides US. There shouldn't be much difference between these titles, 
 only some minor changes in dialogs and object names.
  
  So, what's the story then? The player controls an almost 14-years old girl called Ashley. At a 
 young age, she was told that both her parents are dead, and her aunt Jessica had to take care of 
 I'm and raise her as her own child. One day, Ashley receives a packet containing a strange device 
 and a letter. A letter from his dad. But what has he been doing on a desolate place like that for 
 eleven years?
  
  Realizing that her father is still alive, she launches her journey with Jessica to meet her father 
 in Blood Edwards Island. The island seems to be more than a desolate place without any trace of 
 living people. But to get to the point, you control Ashley with your touch screen, either showing 
 her the way with your stylus or using the D-pad. You can also interact with objects by taking a 
 closer look with the magnifying class and then double-tap the object you wish to see with your 
 stylus. You can also use the assigned buttons for this, but I preferred the stylus throughout the 
 game, except for controlling Ashley.
  
  Controlling Ashley is quite easy, and it shouldn't be a problem to anyone. When you're about to 
 solve a puzzle, the game transfers you to a separate puzzle screen, where the music is cut off 
 and the graphics are very often changed to 3D. Solving the puzzles are usually very neat because 
 they cleverly use the advantages of DS, like using the mic or doing different movements with your 
 stylus. It has a fresh blow of innovation. Basic Nintendo, I'd say. I like it.
  
  What I really liked in this game, were the 2D graphics. They are very highly detailed, and they're 
 beautifully drawn. They remind of those late SVGA-adventure games for PC. The upper screen of the 
 console is usually used tor showing the room or environment with more details, instead of the overhead-view 
 that is in the touch screen. The characters are very well drawn as well, and the gestures look 
 rather good.
  
  Trace Memory is not the hardest adventure game there is, but it still offered some good problems 
 that required a bit thinking. This game should make you feel Oh, that's the way to do it! for quite 
 many times, and that's very good. Keeps up the interest until the very ends of the game.
  
  The only thing that bothered me a bit, is the audio environment. There are not much plain sounds, 
 they are mostly footsteps, that sound good enough. The thing I disliked a bit, is the music. Not 
 that the songs are bad, but they just don't seem to fit the game. The songs have too great a difference 
 between each other, so it makes it sound like it didn't have any particular theme. Almost, but 
 not quite.
  
  The game may be misleading in some points, because there are some puzzles that are actually not 
 even compulsory to be solved, and there are also some items that are completely useless. As far 
 as I understood, you get a slightly different ending if you manage to solve all the problems and 
 find all the memories. Nothing else than that.
  
  I'm sad the game's over already. It didn't take me too many hours in total to play this game through. 
 I would have liked to see a way longer adventure. But, a game is a game, and I sure liked Trace 
 Memory, since good adventure games are rather rare nowadays. If you like puzzle -solving and exploring 
 the environment, you should definitely try this one. It's worth the money.
  
  Oh right. Now I won't forget. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Ryeth
Rating: 8
Date: Oct 9, 2006 10:07 pm PT
Review:  I loved this game i rally liked the characters and the game play itself wasnt hard, it was figuring 
 out what to do, it is seriously one of the harder games out there, well, if you don't cheat. The 
 story line is simple, and complex at the same time, A 13 year old girls get a present from her 
 dead father that is a part of an experiment he and her mother where working on, they were studying 
 the human mind and its memory, hence the name, but what happened to him? find out on Blood Edward 
 island were you meet many strange puzzles and time consuming mysteries, if you love any mystery 
 games, this is one for you to chew on, I think this is one of the best DS games out, considering 
 it was one of the first. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: luke_doug
Rating: 9.7
Date: Sep 27, 2006 4:29 am PT
Review:  The only reason why i rated another code 9 for gameplay instead of 10 is because when you play 
 through it another time you should win more storyline or some extra gameplay then it would SUPER 
 JUBER BOOBER AWESOME!!
  Also i would totally buy the next installment if it was realeased so if the makers of another code 
 are reading this they can be at ease : - Also The game is brilliant and indepth the story line 
 makes you feel the feelings that the characters would be feeling and you under stand it when the 
 charcters get concered because it is so indepth! It is one of the first games that i wanted to 
 play so i could see what happened in the storyline and what a storyline it is! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SabotFox
Rating: 5.7
Date: Sep 25, 2006 1:21 pm PT
Review:  Puzzle games have been a true staple in the gaming community, and most gamers have a love/hate 
 relationship with these games. The story invariably centers around a protagonist getting lured 
 into some strange location that is  for one reason or another  void of any human life, and quite 
 possibly falling apart after standing vacant for any number of years. As you explore the surroundings, 
 you begin to uncover whatever mystery the area holds, which leads to trying to unlock doors that 
 have been inexplicably locked with color sequences, slide puzzles, etc. Players of these games 
 have learned to keep a notebook on hand to jot down codes or scribble images, because you never 
 know when a doodle is actually a vital clue.
  
  At first glance, Trace Memory is identical to all the puzzle games that have come before it. The 
 chief difference with this game is, naturally, the fact that its on the Nintendo DS. With its 
 dual screen and touch screen technology, this game is able to carry a number of new types of puzzles. 
 Now, you can pick objects up to throw them, drag them, turn them, or twist them. Rather than painstakingly 
 copying down random drawings, the top screen often provides you with a vital clue to solve the 
 puzzle on the bottom screen, and there are even some puzzles where you have to use the microphone 
 to blow an object around. The sheer variety of puzzles is pretty impressive. Unfortunately, the 
 game itself is not, as Trace Memory suffers from trying to make itself too clever.
  
  The game opens with a boat approaching the shores of Blood Edward Island, an island dominated by 
 a large and abandoned mansion and an air of mystery. As the games slow-paced back story explains, 
 your protagonist, Ashley Robbins, has been summoned to the island when she receives a letter from 
 her father Richard, presumed dead for a little over ten years. The letter doesnt say much, doesnt 
 even apologize for the whole being dead thing, but it does say that her father wants to spend Ashleys 
 fourteenth birthday with her on the scenic Blood Edward Island. Along with the letter, she also 
 receives a strange machine that looks suspiciously like a Nintendo DS. This is the Dual Trace System 
 (DTS) , which is somehow coded to Ashleys fingerprint so that only she can use it. During the game, 
 youll find little cartridges scattered about that you can load into the DTS and read Richards 
 journal. In addition, the DTS can take pictures, which is very useful  and often necessary  in 
 solving a number of puzzles. It turns out that Richard is a scientist who specialized in memories, 
 and as the game begins, it seems as if Richard abandoned his daughter so that he could focus on 
 his studies. At any rate, Ashley arrives on the island with her aunt in tow, and quickly winds 
 up becoming separated from her, in typical puzzle game fashion. Ashley tries to find her aunt, 
 and in the process discovers a ghost named D, who has lost all the memories from his former life. 
 Hes somehow convinced that Ashley can help him recover these memories, so he follows her around 
 to offer advice about how to get through the mansion.
  
  These opening sequences do a great job of setting the pace for the game, which is frustratingly 
 slow. The opening cinematic sequence is filled with slow scrolling text that you cant forward 
 through, and the following dialogue is filled with repetition and wild leaps of logic that will 
 make your head spin. For instance, when Ashley asks her aunt about the DTS she received, her aunt 
 claims she doesnt know anything about it. She then mentions that only Ashley can use it because 
 of the fingerprint recognition technology its built with. The game gets more frustrating as it 
 plods along. A typical exchange goes something like this: Ashley finds a card with a letter from 
 her father and reads it. D asks her what shes found, and Ashley reads the letter again. Or, Ashley 
 will be thinking about something, and D will ask her what shes thinking about, so Ashley tells 
 him. Often verbatim. If that repetition wasnt enough, at the end of every chapter you have to 
 take a little quiz to remember the details about what youve discovered, ostensibly so that Ashley 
 doesnt forget whats happened so far. There also a lot of needless backtracking involved in 
 untangling this mystery. Most puzzle games have you chasing clues all over the place anyway, but 
 Trace Memory adds a whole unnecessary leg into it. Whereas most puzzle games allow you to accumulate 
 a number of random items before you need them (often allowing you to pick up items you dont even 
 need) , Trace wont let you pick up any items until Ashley is extremely confident that she needs 
 it. For instance, in a storage room outside the mansion, youll find a box of iron spheres. The 
 gate to the mansion is locked by a pair of hand statues, one of which is holding an iron sphere. 
 Just looking at the puzzle, youll realize what you need to do, so you may go back to grab a sphere 
 right away. Easy enough, right? Unfortunately, Ashley wont agree with you. If you try to pick 
 up a sphere, the game notifies you, The box is filled with iron spheres of various sizes. Why 
 would you want one of those? Youll have to return to the gate, look closely at the hand with a 
 sphere, and then closely at the one without until Ashley realizes, This is the one . . . Oh, 
 hey! One of these things is not like the other! Now you can get the sphere, return to the hand 
 and then solve your first real puzzle  tossing the sphere up into the hand, making use of that 
 good old dual screen technology.
  
  Later on, this trait becomes even more obnoxious. In another room, youll find a notepad that had 
 something written on it before the top sheet was ripped away. Its easy enough to figure out how 
 to solve this puzzle, especially with a nearby pencil to give a clue. The pencil breaks, however, 
 leaving you to find something else to rub on the impression. Luckily, theres a fireplace nearby. 
 Now, if you wandered over to the fireplace first, you wouldnt have been able to find anything 
 except for some charcoal, which of course you couldnt pick up. Who would need that? However, if 
 you return after breaking the pencil, Ashley not only picks up the charcoal, but mentions to D 
 (who remarks that he doesnt see why shed EVER need that) that Hey, you never know when this 
 may come in handy. That line wouldnt be nearly as aggravating had it come BEFORE you knew you 
 needed it. This is just one example of Trace Memory trying to be a little bit too clever for its 
 own good.
  
  The puzzles are the other prime example. As mentioned before, Trace Memory throws a wide variety 
 of puzzles your way. Not only is there the traditional slide puzzle sequences, piecing old documents 
 back together and swapping books around to form words, but youll also be able to throw items about, 
 use the dual screens to create a reflection (in a puzzle of pure genius!) , and take rotate your 
 pictures around to reveal secret clues. Its almost as if Trace Memory was designed to show all 
 the really cool ways the DS touch screen could be used, without realizing that WarioWare had already 
 done that very thing.
  
  If you can scrape up the endurance to get through this rather brief game (it shouldnt take more 
 than six hours to wrap it up, and thats if some of the puzzles stump you) , theres not much to 
 call you back to it. For one, youd have to sit through the tedious sequences again, and the puzzles 
 dont change at all on a second playthrough. There are a few different endings you can get, but 
 these mostly hinge on finding squirreled away items or revealing more of Ds memory.
  
  In my opinion, this is a game best avoided. If you want to see what the DS is capable of, grab 
 a copy of WarioWare and at least have fun doing so. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Dr_Spielmann
Rating: 8.4
Date: Aug 23, 2006 11:26 am PT
Review:  This is wonderful adventure game. Younger people might get dissapointed with the lack of "action" 
 and long conversations, but those looking for serious DS entertainment, a good classic adventure 
 game, character depth and an excellent design will be happy.
  
  First of all, let me say character design is amazing, the pictures look gorgeous and the 2D/3D 
 mix works flawlessly. Soon you get used to the simple controls, there is nothing too complicated, 
 just an straightforward adventure game, lots of dialogues, and a really pretty looking game. The 
 drawings are simply amazing.
  
  You can read other longer reviews here telling you everything you need to know about the plot, 
 technical details, etc. I just want to say that if you like adventure games and you own a DS (specially 
 a DS Lite, the game just looks wonderful on that, thanks to the brighter screens) this is a game 
 NOT to be missed. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: zolloz89
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 22, 2006 9:34 pm PT
Review:  Trace Memory is an adventure game, similar to a Myst game, that puts you in the place of a girl 
 that has heard from her father for the first time in years. The story picks up when you arrive 
 at Blood Edward Island. It seems that your father didn't show up to greet you at the dock, so your 
 guardian, Jessica, goes to look for him. Eventually you find that you must search for them both.
 
  
  In Trace Memory, the game is stylus driven. You can use the d-pad for walking around and exploring 
 the island. The stylus is used for examining items, turning handles, entering passwords, etc. The 
 sound of the areas and rooms fits the somber mood of the game.
  
  Overall, the game is very well put together but there are some down spots. There are parts in the 
 story that are very confusing and items that you have to find that are impossible to find without 
 luck.
  
  This game is a fairly long adventure, but for the type of game that it was, it should have been 
 longer. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: CheshireEnigma
Rating: 6.8
Date: Aug 19, 2006 9:26 am PT
Review:  At a time when fun adventure games are few and far between, Trace Memory is an excellent example 
 for use of unique DS hardware to create an entertaining game.
  
  Trace Memory begins with the main character, Ashley, heading to the ominous Blood Edward Island 
 on the day before her fourteenth birthday to meet her father whom she thought was dead. With her 
 aunt (Ashley's mother is also dead) and a mysterious device her father sent her, Ashley plans to 
 meet up with her father. Got all of that? The previous is all learned in the introduction to the 
 game and sets the tone for the rest of the adventure. As would be expected with an adventure game, 
 in record time you find yourself wandering the island and attempting to solve the mysteries that 
 surround it.
  
  Solving the mysteries of Blood Edward Island is handily accomplished by running around the island 
 using the bottom screen while the top screen is used to display various parts of the scenery. While 
 this helps you to get a feel for what the environments look like (since the movement view is top 
 down) , it also detracts from some of the adventure since the scene on the top screen changes when 
 you approach something to be investigated. When you investigate, the bottom screen is replaced 
 with the scene and you can touch various items in it to receive more information, collect items, 
 or start puzzles.
  
  The puzzles in Trace Memory range from logic riddles to strange physical manipulations of the DS, 
 but remain fun and fresh. The touch screen is used in all the puzzles from turning a crank to tossing 
 an object. Unfortunately, some of the puzzles aren't obvious and the ones that require physical 
 manipulation of the DS can be downright frustrating. Fortunately, the frustrating puzzles are few 
 and far between and hardly detract from the rest of the game.
  
  The story is both driving, inane, and slow. On the one hand you're interested in finding Ashley's 
 father, learning more about what happened to her Mother, and finding more out about the history 
 of Blood Edward Island. Once you do, however, the answers may leave you questioning the logic of 
 the characters. In an adventure game, especially one such as this which attempts to be rich in 
 plot and intrigue, you would think that the designers would take great care to fix any fallacies. 
 Told mostly through long and linear dialogues, the story can also drag on to the point where you 
 develop a crippling anti-social syndrome.
  
  The graphics are good and the still scenes are well detailed and complimented by the music and 
 sounds that round out the game.
  
  For better or for worse, Trace Memory is a short game lasting between two and six hours, though 
 this is feels like the right amount of time for the game. Though there is a reason to replay a 
 second time, you may not want to in fear of having to read the copious dialogue.
  
  Trace Memory puts great use to the unique DS hardware, making it feel like a game that needed to 
 be on the DS rather than happened to land on it. It packs enough fun puzzles and interesting story 
 points to justify at least giving it a try. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Amber_Blaze1717
Rating: 6.1
Date: Aug 13, 2006 11:58 am PT
Review:  I was leafing through the fantasy categories on this site, and I thought, "Hey, this Trace Memory 
 game sounds really cool" and I decided to get it for the summer. Although, I found that the game 
 my sister selected was even better. That's because, I found out that my other consideration would 
 have been better. My other selection was fantasy. This was not fantasy whatsoever. These category 
 people need to learn a thing or two about gaming. 
  You spend most of your time scrolling through messages, especially in the last and first chapters. 
 You're on a wild goose chase for your father, just to tell you about some freaky program, and also 
 going after your Aunt Jessica after she went out looking for him. I thought, "Yeah, this'll be 
 fun, like a cool adventure or something". But, after ten minutes of gameplay, I started to think, 
 "Okay, you need instructions for all these puzzles. She says "Maybe I need to turn the lever" and 
 I say "Well, How do I do that?" And then I bring my DS down to the basement to look up a FAQ. Worse 
 enough, you have to save before the start of Chapter 6, because you can not save after that, so 
 if you pass out from scrolling through all the messages, you can't turn your game off for the next 
 day.
  
  The title says my short version opinion: Good, But I've seen better. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: toriamos1987
Rating: 8.4
Date: Aug 8, 2006 9:32 am PT
Review:  Another Code is a good game but I think it could have been greater if it weren't for a few problems. 
 It's a bit of a text driven game, which I like in games usually, but the story does not get you 
 involved enough. The story is simple enough but does not have allot of depth and is dragged out 
 a little near the end of the game
  
  The puzzles in the game vary from simple to more complicated, I found I had completed the game 
 without solving some of the more harder ones so it has some replay value. The game also has a lack 
 of settings, and thus makes the game quite short. The game itself can be completed in a few hours. 
 You also find yourself running around a little going back and fourth, which gets a little tedious 
 due again to the lack of settings.
  
  The interaction with DS's different elements is great, this was my first DS game and its good to 
 get you started out with the DS new approach to games. The use of the stylus suits the game to 
 a tee.
  
  The game is nice to look at, the characters design especially, the sound in the game goes well 
 also. 
  
  Original and interesting but could have been much better. One to play then sell on.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: CaptainLiam
Rating: 8
Date: Aug 4, 2006 11:13 am PT
Review:  Trace Memory is certainly not a game for everyone. It's not a frantic shooter or fluid platformer. 
 Trace Memory plays something like an interactive Bobsy Twins/Hardy Boys novel, but with a glossy 
 finish and a bit more sophistication than a children's summer reading adventure.
  
  Trace Memory's gameplay has an interface that most older gamers will find fairly recognizable. 
 We're talking about your basic point-and-click adventure tweaked up a notch. The bottom screen 
 gives you a top down view of a 3D polygon world, while the top screen displays static shots of 
 the surrounding area that shift depending on your character's location within the current surroundings. 
 Using a cursor you can select items to display these static shots on the bottom screen to investigate 
 their contents more closely, often uncovering items or clues. One nice touch is that this game 
 can be controlled entirely by either the directional and buttons, or by the stylus alone. If you 
 want, you can even use both the buttons and stylus. I found this very handy when I was able to 
 use the buttons instead of the stylus during my bumpy commute to and from work. Be warned that 
 using the D pad to control the cursor requires a bit of finesse as it's movement gets a bit touchy 
 and overly sensitive. All in all, you end up with a Myst-like experience but with more explanation, 
 more narrative, and some very unique puzzles.
  
  At its core, Trace Memory is a showcase for the DS's features via an array of puzzles with a story 
 to connect them all together. The story has a pass/fail sort of appeal. You'll either be drawn 
 into solving the mystery surrounding the murders of the main character's parents and the murders 
 of your ghost friend's family, or you'll be completely turned off by the fact that you're going 
 to be playing as a 13 year old girl. The game has a few interesting ways to incorporate the player 
 into the storyline, such as the device that the main character receives is a dead replica of the 
 DS unit itself. Also be sure to notice the character's date of birth. There's a fair bit of reading 
 required here and that also may be a turn off for some players who want a faster pace out of their 
 games.
  
  The puzzles are definitely competent, if occasionally uneven in their difficulty. Some of the puzzles 
 are immediately solvable and others have a pretty intense frustration factor. But it's a rare instance 
 that you don't feel a certain level of accomplishment after succeeding in solving a puzzle. Some 
 puzzles really show off the abilities of the DS and make clever use of it's characteristics, such 
 as the reflective quality of the screens. Others can be a bit tedious because they basically amount 
 to item fetching and back tracking. But if you're really interested in the storyline, you'll be 
 willing to deal with these variations just to move the story along.
  
  If you are that keen on solving the mystery and discovering the resolution to the story, you won't 
 have long to wait. Trace Memory certainly falls short of an epic adventure, especially if you're 
 determined. Replay value is also debatable as you've already solved these puzzles on your first 
 run through. A bit more length would have been preferable, but Trace Memory is a solid experience 
 while it lasts. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bigshot305
Rating: 7.6
Date: Aug 2, 2006 8:49 am PT
Review:  Trace Memory is an adventure game that uses the DS in some very creative ways, but because of the 
 same old soundtrack, very easy puzzles, and short story this adventure game for the DS becomes 
 very bland after the 2nd or 3rd chapter. You are Ashley. A girl, who is, turning 14. She receives 
 a DTS, which looks like a DS, come in the mail. The package is from her dad who has been dead for 
 almost 10 years or so she thinks. She also gets a note from her dad saying to meet him on Blood 
 Edward Island. As soon as you get there, your father is nowhere to be seen and then your Aunt Jessica 
 just disappears. A little bit later a ghost named D comes and asks if you can help find his memories. 
 You help D and you learn about Blood Edward Island and the events that happened and how D died.
 
  
  The graphics in this game are all right considering its a DS, but the anime drawings are very 
 good. Its like a lot of adventure games most of them have pre-rendered backgrounds and dont really 
 do anything.
  
  The sound was one of the issues I had with Trace Memory. The music is the same recycled song for 
 hours. And the sound isnt very great you got basic noises, but then the only other sound is the 
 noise the text makes and the OH MY GOD! WE JUST FOUND SOMETHING OUT! noise which you get to hear 
 every time D finds something out.
  
  The puzzles are one thing that is good and bad. Lets talk about the good. This game has very interesting 
 puzzles in it that use the DS to its full capabilities, but the bad thing is that the puzzles are 
 way too easy. This might be good for some people, but for me it wasnt, especially if you spent 
 $20 for a 4-hour game. 
  
  The story for Trace Memory is good, but it is just to short and could at be a little longer. 
 
  This game is very short and could be beat in at least 4-hours. 
  
  Trace Memory is a good game all around but dig deeper and their really isnt anything new to the 
 adventure genre at all.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Karstux
Rating: 8.4
Date: Jul 30, 2006 3:51 am PT
Review:  Note: I am going to split this review into sections so it is more understandable.
  
  Graphics 8: Beautifully drawn anime style artwork but the bottom screen graphics are not that good 
 and could be played on a gameboy. Only impressive part is possibly the drawbridge going up which 
 is 3D. I would give this a 10 for artwork because it really is stunning especially if played 
 
  on a DS Lite.
  
  Gameplay 8: Puzzles are really clever using the DS to the very limit. Clever use of the stylus 
 and you wont even need to use the other buttons. Also the camera and other aspects of Ashley's 
 DAS are clever but to explain how I might spoil the game for you. The painting puzzle near the 
 end is the hardest also there is one puzzle that will test your mental skill. I think the value 
 of the puzzles are better that Brain Training (which I consider a total waste of money) .
  
  Sound 9: This is one of the places really excels. The music is really memorable and the sounds 
 really good it can easily be enjoyed by most gamers who aren't plugged into their ipods.
  
  Storyline 10: Most games find it hard to come up with original storylines.
  A example is most 
 Japanese RPG'S or adventure games eg. Final Fantasy.
  Another code is a exception. The story pulls you in right from the start and only gets deeper. 
 The 1st time you play you might rush it a bit which most people do. Also most people do not even 
 bother to play it the second time through and unlock the 2nd ending.
  
  Summary: People play through this game really quickly and finish it in 2 hours. I did not I played 
 the second time through to try to learn more about the game and characters. I was surprised that 
 I unlocked a new ending joined with the old one, it was a perfect contrast as if it should always 
 have been there. Also I read through the text again. To really complete the game it takes at least 
 seven and a half hours. Do not follow the crowd turn back and get this game as it is a rugged masterpiece.
 
  
  
  
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: x_Chezzy_x
Rating: 8.2
Date: Jul 5, 2006 10:17 pm PT
Review:  There ARE alot for texts and dialog (most are very clever. I'm sure that most people thought this 
 game was a little challenging somewhere in the game and had to look up cheats.
  
  I think thats why so many games seem so short to them. If they take time figuring games out them 
 selves, the game might have been longer to them.
  (I cheat sometimes too so don't get me wrong) 
  
  Aside from all the texts and dialog, I think 
 some of the puzzles are kinds fun and clever (maybe take a few attempts to finish a puzzle) . Umm... to 
 me, it still seems weird the way the Captain gives you Candy (an item) and you can eat it as much 
 as you want without running out. o. o it's wierd. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Cassiopeia_can
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jul 2, 2006 3:43 pm PT
Review:  I overally liked this game, although it is too short.
  
  The storyline and the game play is pretty good.
  
  You gotta be thinking every time to solve 
 various puzzles.
  
  If you hate those text-based puzzle games and want some instant actions, do not buy this game.
 
  
  It's gonna be totally waste of money for you.
  
  and there is no re-play value, but you still pay as much as what you pay for other long games, 
 which kinda sux.
  
  In conclusion, this game is recommended for most people, but this game should have been longer.
 
  
  Don't buy this game, if you hate text-based puzzles games.
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: wmg1299
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jun 29, 2006 9:04 am PT
Review:  Trace Memory is a unique gaming experience that offers DS owners something they havent seen before. 
 How much or how a little a person enjoys change will have a lot to do with the amount of enjoyment 
 they get from this title.
  The plot is interesting enough. A 14-year-old girl travels to a private island in order to find 
 the scientist father she thought was dead. Along the way she meets several characters, including 
 the ghost of a young boy, and must solve a mystery.
  The graphics are very good compared to other DS offerings. The music does a little to set the mood, 
 but the overall sound is not that impressive. All dialogue is in the form of written text, which 
 somewhat hurts the amount of player immersion into the title. There are times that the deeper parts 
 of the game create a Resident Evil type atmosphere, but this is severely hindered by reading line 
 after line of printed text on the small DS screen. 
  The gameplay is what sets this portable title apart from the others. It is basically a text-driven, 
 point-and-click PC adventure/mystery title. While I would not be impressed with it as a PC release, 
 it does come across impressively on the DS. Players use the touch screen and stylus to inspect 
 and manipulate objects in order to solve puzzles. The use of a touch screen makes the game much 
 more interesting that the traditional mouse click system for this type of game.
  The puzzles do not take a masters degree to solve, and gameplay can be a little linear at times. 
 Only certain areas of rooms can be closely inspected, which often gives players strong hints about 
 where they need to be looking for items. Trace Memory is not a long title in terms of playable 
 hours, but offers plenty of satisfaction during the first playthrough.
  Fans of PC mystery games will probably find this title short and easy, but may have a little fun 
 with the touch screen features. Gamers like myself, who have gotten used to a steady diet of platformers 
 and fighters on handheld systems, may be refreshed by the different style this game offers. 
  Trace Memory doesnt bring anything revolutionary to gaming, but it does present a lesser-known 
 genre to a vast number of gamers who may never have experienced it before. The title is worth playing 
 just for the experience, but it is not necessarily a must buy title. I applaud developers for 
 bringing this title to the DS and look forward to similar offerings, but the poor sound quality, 
 lack of spoken dialogue, and limited free-roaming gameplay keep it from being something that all 
 gamers need to have in their collection. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Charrmai
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jun 29, 2006 6:57 am PT
Review:  Ok let me start by saying that the intro sequance gets you revved up for a fab story ok. So yeah 
 I wont go on about the fab plot and creepy and happy elements so I'll go strait onto the gameplay. 
 You know when you play pick up and use stuff, they always feel like there's some gameplay missing 
 yeah? Ok wizardry 8 did the battle which was ok and everyone else followed. Ok Another code puts 
 the pic up and use genre and adds alot of the "ahhhh how clever" element to it with pic up and 
 use puzzles with great "ahhhh" factor. Is that enough nope nintendo have encluded some eqaliy as 
 "ahhhh" touch screen puzzles, in which you always do something different. Add smooth grapics and 
 proper music and sounds (yes real music not tinkly tinkly pokemon crud) and you have a winner oh 
 and alternitave outcomes lots of alternitave outcomes but this game needs another game to go with 
 it like mario 64 it's not to good on its own 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Shawn_Watson
Rating: 3.8
Date: Jun 27, 2006 10:57 am PT
Review:  Is this a video-game or a book? I've never done so much reading in my life so I'm sure it's not 
 a video-game. Trace Memory is one of the early Nintendo DS titles and it seems to have been made 
 to showcase the DS features as any kind of enjoyable gameplay has been totally thrown out the window.
 
  
  You play a very cute Japanese girl (the white hair thing is cool) called Ashley Mizuki Robbins on 
 the day of her 14th birthday, since she shared the same birthday as me I am assuming that the personalised 
 DS changes it for each player. She journeys to Blood Edward Island to reunite with her estranged 
 dad but when she arrives he's not there and you must find him.
  
  So begins a long, long and even more tedious game of looking everywhere and talking to other characters 
 and a ghost kid with loads and loads and loads and loads of reading dialogue. Dialogue that there 
 is no button simply skip by and get on with the game. It's a bloody pain in the ass I tell you. 
 Each of the DS features is used at least once in the game, such as blowing on the screen to help 
 Ashley blow dust off an old mirror or folding the screen together to solve some sort of reflection 
 code. Oooh... wow! But where the hell is the enjoyment?
  
  And get this, not only is this game torture to get through, but you actually have to complete it 
 TWICE! No way man! You solve all of the mystery regarding the missing dad but then you start at 
 the beginning in what they call a 'starred' game in which you must do THE EXACT SAME THING again 
 (including reading all that bloody dialogue) only to have a slightly different ending in which 
 the ghost kid remembers his past. Well he can 'live' the rest of his death in ignorance because 
 I ain't wasting my precious time helping him. There are better games out there than this.
  
  I mean, the graphics are nice and it's a very summery looking but the generic music, slowness, 
 endless reading and dull plot make a game that's more of a sleeping pill than a fun experience. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: borfina
Rating: 8.3
Date: Jun 24, 2006 4:14 am PT
Review:  Having already played through this game once, I can safely say that it is rather refreshing in 
 its use of the DS features. The puzzles are rather simple, but it can be overlooked due to its 
 immersive storyline.
  
  The main character (a heroine) by the name of Ashley Mizuki Robbins gets a "DTS" (it's actually 
 the Nintendo DS) for her fourteenth birthday, and she must use it to find her estranged father 
 on Blood Edward Island and to find out what happened to her mother. A good adventure game should 
 make the player want to figure out what happens in the end, and Trace Memory did that for me. The 
 story is a contemporary mystery: a whodunnit murder case and lost memories. This may come off as 
 a cliche basis for a story, but don't turn your face at it until you've played it.
  
  Though it is rather short, I believe it took less than 5 hours to complete, I would very much recommend 
 this game to any adventure fan. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MrCHUP0N
Rating: 6.5
Date: Oct 16, 2007 2:07 pm PT
Review:  Adventure games have long since been declared dead by critics and players alike, but those who 
 hold onto the genre will quickly point out that Myst V, Syberia, Dreamfall and Indigo Prophecy 
 are keeping things out of the grave and in intensive care. Trace Memory for the Nintendo DS, then, 
 serves to give portable game players a taste of the pixel-hunting, story-driven and puzzle-solving 
 gameplay style that is so rare these days. By virtue of the infrequency of such adventure games, 
 Trace Memory succeeds in being one of the only point-and-click affairs on the Nintendo DS. Unfortunately, 
 it's a little rough around the edges, and by the time you get used to its quirks you'll find it 
 over way too soon.
  
  Trace Memory tells the story of Ashley Robbins, who receives a mysterious letter from her father 
 Richard on the day prior to her fourteenth birthday. Accompanied by her aunt, Ashley takes a boat 
 to Blood Edward Isle - no doubt more mysterious than the letter itself - to find that her father 
 isn't waiting there. Ashley's aunt goes in search of Richard and turns up missing. Meanwhile, Ashley 
 meets a ghost named D who requests that she help him recover his memories. What ensues is a wild 
 goose chase for Ashley's father, exploration of an abandoned mansion, and the unraveling of a cryptic 
 scientific experiment called Trace .
  
  The story starts off slightly intriguing, but your mileage may vary depending on what you're expecting 
 to see from an adventure game. The localization is just fine, but the actual writing quality is 
 hit-or-miss. The story avoids some level of convolution by being, well, a bit too straightforward. 
 You can probably guess everything that happened to Ashley's family as you meet characters, and 
 there's only one real twist that you'll find.
  
  It's likely that publisher Nintendo's focus was on keeping the player focused on experiencing the 
 DS rather than trying to unravel a complicated story. Typical adventure gaming fare abound, as 
 you'll find yourself pixel hunting for items and using your brain to discover exactly when and 
 where to use said items. The Nintendo DS' two screens are put to decent use, with 2D renderings 
 of your environments populating the top screen and a birds-eye view polygonal representation of 
 the environment on the bottom screen. Ashley moves about down there, and as she walks by areas 
 of interest, the top screen shifts to show a new view of that area. With every new view that pops 
 into play, you'll want to stop and look by bringing that view onto the bottom screen. At that point, 
 you can touch objects of interest to examine them and pick them up, or manipulate levers, cranks 
 and buttons to solve puzzles.
  
  The graphics in the 2D pictures are crisp and detailed such that any objects that look like they 
 should be examined will stick out, but not unnaturally. The 2D character art is also very well-drawn. 
 Utilizing a sort of paper-doll method, similar to Sprung!, Phoenix Wright and Tony Hawk's American 
 Sk8land, the character art is drawn in a non-super-deformed anime style with clean lines and solid 
 coloring. Characters' mouths animate as they speak to you, and their eyes blink as well. There's 
 not much in the overall movement department though - no dynamic arm-crossing, finger pointing, 
 or head shaking.
  
  Where you'll see a majority of the movement is in the bottom screen as Ashley walks around the 
 environment at a brisk 60 frames a second and never skipping a beat. Nice effects such as birds 
 flying above while outdoors, and the sun shining through windows as you explore the mansion's interior, 
 add some life to counter the inanimate nature of the 2D views up on the top screen. Much of the 
 time you spend indoors, however, gives way to a somewhat monotone color palette. With the exception 
 of some choice rooms that have many objects of varying nature to look at, most of the indoors environments 
 just aren't interesting. On top of that, there's some severe graininess to some of the textures 
 used in the environments that can be a little jarring.
  
  Fortunately, the music doesn't offend in this manner. Gentle, whimsical tunes keep a relaxed mood 
 for the majority of the game. Instrument quality is to be commended as well, with developer Cing 
 not resorting to Gameboy-esque sound samples as is too often seen in many other Nintendo DS games. 
 The myriad violin and piano tunes are accompanied by Ashley's footsteps, which change according 
 to the surface, creaking wooden shelves and floors, the squawking of seagulls outside, and the 
 sea washing up against the shore of the island. In the end, the audio package does a good, consistent 
 job of accompanying the visuals to provide for a decent aesthetic presentation.
  
  The gameplay isn't quite as steady and wastes some potential. You'll get the normal touch-screen 
 interactivity as you'd expect from an adventure game - grab a lever with the stylus and crank it 
 around to lower or open something. The best moments soar above and beyond typical mundane fare 
 such as this. You'll be using your DS in incredibly clever ways, and not just by blowing into the 
 mic or lining up photos you took of the environment to get more clues. We're talking about physically 
 using the actual portable machine outside of the realm of just pushing buttons and touching the 
 screen. To say anything more specific would spoil things, but let's just say that for a few puzzles, 
 you'll really need to think outside the box.
  
  The lows, however, really make you wonder why better moments couldn't have been more prevalent. 
 Key in hole. Medal in slot. Use knife to cut wire and rope. Could things be any more trite? At 
 least, then, Cing spares the player from solving ridiculous puzzles like the ones that are arguably 
 killing the genre - no getting the cat hair to roll into a ball to throw at a candle to make it 
 ignite the wall to burn down the wood after which the fumes will drive a cheetah out of hiding 
 as it runs outside where it'll drop a gold coin which you can use to bribe the security guard to 
 let you in the bank.
  
  But some inherent design flaws bring you back to wondering just what the development team was thinking. 
 Why is it, for instance, that in most cases you can't pick up an item until you've found what you 
 need to use it for? For a fictional example, let's say you're rummaging around someone's room and 
 come across a computer mouse. There'd be no option for Ashley to pick it up. Then, you come across 
 a computer with no input device, so you can't poke around. Direct Ashley back to the computer mouse, 
 and bam - she'll pick it up. Why not have her pick it up at the outset? Why can't you just pick 
 up any item that might be of interest? The spirit of adventure games is looking through an inventory 
 and using logic to deduce what you're supposed to use, how, and when. This design flaw, then, makes 
 for some annoying backtracking and - as it limits the variety of items you can pick up - actually 
 takes away from some of the challenge in trying to solve a puzzle. Let's forget about the fact 
 that for some puzzles D will say to you, Perhaps you should try this... and proceed to spill the 
 beans.
  
  It's really a shame that the balance of puzzle challenge is skewed towards the more dull, and that 
 some of the game design is flawed. More intriguing puzzles would have extended the game's life 
 beyond the short five or so hours it takes to blaze through this game. Playing through it a second 
 time won't net you any cool unlockable items. There are very, very minor changes if you replay 
 the game that give some more insight to the game's entire story, mostly revolving around D. But 
 by that point, you'll be wishing for more inventive puzzling instead of finding out an extra little 
 tidbit that you already lost interest in during the first playthrough.
  
  Trace Memory isn't bad - it's a decently executed title that gives DS owners a solid adventure. 
 The simple fact of the matter is, however, that a good adventure game should have a lot of meat 
 on its bones and brain-busting puzzles that keep the player wanting to solve the next one. Failing 
 that, there's almost always an intriguing story to at least lessen the blow. You won't find yourself 
 challenged on a satisfying level with a game that only throws a handful of these your way. But 
 Trace Memory is a solid effort that shows how creative a developer can get with using the DS to 
 create new, devious puzzles. There just needs to be more - much more. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: oceanshoreview
Rating: 8.3
Date: Jun 12, 2006 6:46 am PT
Review:  I was excited to pick up Trace Memory and I have been for awhile, but I was waiting for that price 
 drop so I could get it cheap. Well, it wasn't to long ago it dropped down to $19.99 so I finally 
 got it and gave it a playthrough. I am pleased to say that I enjoyed it very much and would definitly 
 recommend this game. 
  
  Trace Memory is a point and click style murder mystery for the DS. It is about 50% exploration 
 based and 50% story based, no battles in this one. I liked that though, I wasn't looking for a 
 violent adventure, I was looking for some good puzzle solving and exploration. 
  
  In my mind I basically thought of this game as Resident Evil or Silent Hill without the combat 
 or sluggish controls. Just some good old item based puzzle solving to progress through a large 
 area. The puzzles don't get extremely difficult, although some of them definitly take some thinking 
 outside of the box. You'll use your DS in ways you've probably never used your DS before. It's 
 awesome to see that a game that came out early in the DS's life did things like this that no other 
 game (I've played) has mimicked. 
  
  I was glad to find that there was hardly any backtracking in the game; it's not to often you come 
 across that. However, due to the lack the of this as I progressed through the game and entered 
 new areas I was hesitant to go back. As a result, I got stuck for quite some time on a few puzzles 
 because in order to complete them I needed to go back to old areas and find items. It made sense 
 after I did it though; so just keep in mind the things you see.
  
  The story in the game is great. Towards the end it gets to be a lot to read, but personally I found 
 it very interesting and immersive. I found myself really wanting to know how it turned out. It 
 twists around quite a bit and confuses you with information that you're not sure if you should 
 beleive or not. You'll know what I'm talking about when you play it. It's definitly worth paying 
 attention to though. 
  
  The graphics are top quality for the DS. The environments look nice as do the character models. 
 It has a over the top view while exploring and then you'll see nice drawings of things you can 
 examine on the top screen which move down to the bottom when you choose to examine them. 
  
  The artwork is done extremely well. The characters all have a nice cel-shaded look while things 
 in the environment are simply drawn very well. Although nothing is extremely exciting because you're 
 exploring things like drawers and whatnot, it still all looks very nice. 
  
  It took me about 6 hours to complete the game and that was what I expected to play for. I personally 
 don't want to spend 20 hours staring at my DS screen for one game unless I'm on a really long road 
 trip. I love seeing my TV for that time for games, but handhelds just don't keep my attention for 
 that long. So I think the game length was perfect. 
  
  Definitly a worthwhile experience, I'm very glad that I picked this one up. Hardcore action people 
 may not enjoy it due to it's lack of battles, but anyone up for a good story and some good puzzle 
 solving/exploration shouldn't pass this one up. 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: eric_alman
Rating: 8.3
Date: Jun 9, 2006 9:10 pm PT
Review:  After reading a variety of positive and negative reviews about this game, I finally used some trade-in 
 credit to pick up Trace Memory and give it a whirl. I was rewarded with a thoroughly enjoyable 
 few hours of quality handheld gaming.
  
  If you are looking for an open-ended adventure role-playing game, or an edge of your seat shooter 
 to get your adrenaline pumping, this is not the game for you. Likewise, if you want a game that 
 is going to challenge you to the brink of insanity, keep this cartridge out of your DS as well. 
 Do yourself a favor, though, and set aside a few hours of a relaxing day to immerse yourself in 
 Trace Memory. This game is wonderfully successful if you approach it in the right frame of mind; 
 that is, prepared and willing to be led through a surprisingly touching and deep story line with 
 the the occasional brain bender thrown in. 
  
  I liken my experience with Trace Memory to my time spent playing Beyond Good and Evil. (GC) The 
 game is not very long, and is is technically not extremely challenging. What these games both do 
 extremely well is they exist marvelously within their own realistic boundaries. If either of these 
 games were much longer, they would begin to get repetetive or boring. Where both titles succeed 
 is that they lead a player through an emotionally charged story in which you begin to truly care 
 about these little animated characters running around on the screen, rather than just being interested 
 in leveling up or becoming more powerful.
  
  Graphically the game is sufficient, but not extraordinary. The top-down maps give the setting a 
 lot of character, but the 3-d animation is a bit fuzzy. The most pleasing graphics are 2-d, anime 
 inspired cut scenes that provide all the storytelling. I am amazed by how much emotion came through 
 my little DS screen from these jerky, twitchy cartoons! These cutscenes are used to present a text-heavy 
 storyline, however, that is extremely well written and void of the quirky translation problems 
 we see in so many text dependent games. One small feature that surprisingly added alot of emotion 
 for me is the way the screen 'shakes' briefly when characters are suprised, angry, or scared when 
 talking. This small detail added an extra layer of feeling that went a long way with this player.
 
  
  Music in this game is above average, with the lesser quality tracks hovering just this side of 
 annoying. The majority of the music is pleasing and helps to create a relaxing, yet involved atmosphere. 
 Sound effects leave somethign to be desired, but since the game does not rely heavily on them they 
 aren't much of a deterrent.
  
  This game has some of the best usage of the DS 'interactive' features that I've experienced, even 
 though these moments are few and far between. Without spoiling, I'll just say that the handful 
 of times you are asked to solve puzzles in 'alternative' means - not just pushing a button here 
 or placing a key there - it makes so much sense that you'll find yourself smiling in approval and 
 delight.
  
  Do I recommend buying this game? Only if you get a screaming deal, because this game is basically 
 a one day event without much replay value. Do I recommend playing this game, though? Definitely 
 and with all my heart. Trace Memory provided me with an afternoon of gaming that is going to stick 
 with me the way a great movie or novel does. Think of playing this game in the same way you'd think 
 of spending a few h ours wrapped up in a wonderful book. You'll be rewarded with a quality emotional 
 experience, as well as glimpses of truly innovative gameplay.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: lettyjb
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jun 6, 2006 2:06 pm PT
Review:  In this game you control a girl who is in an unknown island looking for her father, who shes never 
 met. This island is deserted and theres a mystery in its history.
  You go through the game solving several puzzles that ables you to open doors, find out things, 
 etc. It depends on how much of this things you've found out, the ending will be different... So 
 it's a game to replay after you've finished to try and complete it having collected all items and 
 information available.
  The graphics are good, the gameplay is great, the story is awesome! It is a very well constructed 
 game it definitely guarantee hours of plain fun.
  Every body should at least try it, fans of puzzle-adventure games, you should really have this 
 one! In my opinion, this is one of the best games made for the DS and the first one I've completed! 
 It really catches you... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: maunmaun
Rating: 9.3
Date: May 26, 2006 7:54 am PT
Review:  This game is simply stunning. So far, one of the best few games I have ever played. Period. I won't 
 go into details regarding the plot as I don't want to spoil your pleasure. The graphics are really 
 fantastic, even though they are not the best in term of animation, but the plot is so gripping 
 it is very easily forgettable. Now I don't have a DS for long, but I always wondered what the dual 
 screen would really bring to gaming. This is the answer. You get to use features from the console 
 that you wouldn't even know existed (seriously) . I still can't believe how inventive the developers 
 have been regarding the solving of some of the puzzles. This makes you really interact with the 
 game and the machine in new ways. The plot is very good, and although a bit predictable on some 
 aspects, involves quite a lot of character all interconnected in some way. I found the sound pretty 
 good as well, especially the music which albeit simple, helps maintain a nice atmosphere and brightens 
 the quite dark feel of the game. If I had one thing to say against this game is that it tends to 
 be a bit short (I did it in around 6 hours solid without hint) , and although you can replay it 
 to get a few changes in the story, I wouldn't say replayability is a strong point. If you like 
 puzzles, point and click adventures and japanime graphics, it would be a sin not to play this game. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: coollizy
Rating: 6.8
Date: May 16, 2006 3:54 pm PT
Review:  Back when the DS was first introduced to the world, Trace Memory was one of the first games that 
 caught my attention, and I waited patiently for it to come out.
  
  The idea of an adventure-puzzle game using the stylus on the DS fascinated me, and I enjoyed the 
 storyline and exploring the tiny island world where the game takes place. However, the game's puzzles 
 take a little bit of time to proceed to the real brain busters, and once they do, the game comes 
 to an end. You can complete the game in about 4-6 hours, including puzzle solving time.
  
  Yet, what is there is excellent. The character designs are wonderful, the story is gripping, and 
 some of the puzzles are pure magic. I'm really hoping that they'll be willing to follow this game 
 up with a sequel, or a similar-playing game, but stretch the gameplay and story out.
  
  If you enjoy a good puzzle game, and only plan to play in short sessions, or you have some money, 
 and you're looking for a short game to tide you over, you might want to check out Trace Memory. 
 Otherwise, you may want to look elsewhere. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sfenty
Rating: 8.2
Date: May 15, 2006 9:11 pm PT
Review:  This is a tough game to review. On the one hand, it is a fantastic adventure game with fluid puzzles 
 that make sense in the context of the story. On the other hand, it IS an adventure game, which 
 automatically makes it not a game for most gamers. Most gamers just don't like the slow, easy, 
 linear pacing of a story/puzzle driven adventure game. If you are somoen who does like this sort 
 of game, Trace Memory is a must buy. Especially now that you can get it for $20 some places. But 
 even adventure fans must be warned -- this is a very, very short game. Even by Adventure game standards, 
 this game flies buy in under 6 hours (although I have to run through part of the game again to 
 get all of D's story -- a secondary character whoese tale is not ocmplete unless you do some nonessential 
 things) . I have no problem with a game of this length. I think there is room in the video game 
 landscape for short games like this. I'd even prefer this to an overlly drawn out game. But publishers 
 must either bundle these games in duo packs or release them for $20. Charging full price for this 
 title is too much. As much as I enjoyed it, I can't see paying $30 for it when I can get Mario 
 Kart or Adance Wars for about the same price and play them for hundreds of hours. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Warfust
Rating: 8.3
Date: May 13, 2006 10:42 pm PT
Review:  This fun puzzle/adventure game continues to grow on you the more you play it. It uses all of the 
 features of the DS in it's puzzles without making it so difficult that you feel the need to get 
 a guide., and makes great use of the duel screen in it's presentation of the storyline as well. 
 You explore the area on the top screen from an overhead view and interact with the objects around 
 you from a first person perspective on the bottom screen.
  
  It's not often that I find a puzzle game of this nature that can hold my attention, but the intriguing 
 story line kept me going back for more. 
  
  Pick up this often overlooked game, you won't be dissapointed! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: katman
Rating: 7.6
Date: May 2, 2006 2:56 am PT
Review:  On a console or computer this game would not have the same charm as on the DS especially how they 
 incorporated some of the DS's unique features into the gameplay.
  
  At heart it's a pretty simple, slow moving adventure game with a somewhat confusing story but good 
 enough in it's own ways. 
  
  The gameplay and puzzles are not too difficult, except I admit to needing to consult a FAQ a few 
 time because I was totally stuck on what to do next.
  
  The sound and graphics are all decent enough, and they really used the DS in a few unique ways, 
 as well as even incorporating into the game by giving one to your character to use.
  
  I've read there are a few different endings, and after 8 hours of gameplay I guess I didn't get 
 the "Good" ending, just the "OK" ending, but I have no real desire to go back and play again right 
 now.
  
  I finished it so I must have liked it so I can recommend it if it sounds interesting to you. I 
 think I picked it up for $20 so it was a pretty good deal.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: DurhamNC
Rating: 7.8
Date: Apr 18, 2006 7:55 am PT
Review:  Trace Memory is an adventure game in the tradition of Myst, but certainly not with the same falre 
 and depth. Two draw backs: first, it's short -- 6 hours short; and second, it's too linear. When 
 you miss something in a room, if it's not obvious you have missed it, your sometimes companion 
 D will point out the fact. 
  
  The good: in the genre of adventure games, and especially as an adventure game on a portable, the 
 graphics are great. The backgounds are often dynamic and the cut scenes are beautiful. Most intriguing 
 of all though is the degree to which TM takes advantage of every feature of the DS (except the 
 WiFi, of course) . Friends may laugh at you as you play the game -- trust me. 
  
  A lot of the puzzles really are quite good, after yo get beyond the first chapter, which really 
 just serves as a training session for gameplay (the designers clearly recognize that most gamers 
 don't like to spend their first half hour with a new game buried in the manual) . Once they're solved, 
 though, the replay of the game is functionally lost. 
  
  The biggest drawback is how linear this game is in its presentation. That it's a bit short I can 
 deal with. As it stands, you can usually find trace memory for 10 or 15 dollars new, much less 
 used, and at that price it's well worth it. If you pay 30 or 35 for the game, you'll be justifiably 
 disappointed. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Teliko_Hat
Rating: 7
Date: Apr 2, 2006 11:51 am PT
Review:  this was indeed a good game. no doubt its one of those things you need to come back to. your bound 
 to get stuck your first time 'round but you always come through. and at the end when you think 
 you've won, you haven't. you don't win the game until the ghost dude, sorry but i can't remember 
 his name. it's been a while. we'll you don't win until he is happy at the end of the game and is 
 no longer stuck on the island. you do this by getting every item in the game that had some sort 
 of trigger to his memory in any way. also if, at the end of the game, you look close enough you 
 will see a tip. this ip is telling us of the next "trace memory" game. (it's called "another code" 
 here) the reason they try to tell us of this game is because they know it was too short for us, 
 so they are keeping us exited to look forward to the next game which i have heard nothing of so 
 far... good game all the less. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: amkalfus
Rating: 6.7
Date: Jun 7, 2006 3:10 pm PT
Review:  Trace Memory seemed interesting from the get go when I started hearing about it in magazines. It 
 seems like a "Myst" type game to me; a point and click adventure where you must solve the puzzels 
 and find the clues so that you can unlock the mystery of the island. I was excited when I got this 
 game, but disappointed at how short it was, and how there was really no replay value beyond the 
 second time beating this game.
  
  So, lets talk gamplay. This is a tried and true point and click adventure which is a dying genre 
 in today's gaming community (truly sad...) . You, basically, must find the clues in the right order 
 in order to solve the puzzles found within this game. I do have to say that the DS is used in some 
 very interesting ways in this game. You'll just have to play through this game to see how the people 
 who made these puzzles are pretty geniuos! The story, as well as how it plays out in a slideshow 
 type style, are very cool and very well done. The graphics are also surprisingly good. This is 
 a great looking game for the DS, and the cut scenes are just beautiful with the still shots and 
 all; there is definately a lot of emotion behind this game.
  
  The sound is average, but it doesn't hurt the game at all. The replay value is where this game 
 takes a hit. It is very short, and you really only can play through it once or twice (and the second 
 time through can be done in a sitting or two) . The first time through is just figuring out which 
 puzzle pieces you need and in what order to advance the story and beat the game. It's pretty fun 
 your first time though. After your first time through, you can play another time through with your 
 saved file. There is nothing different about the game, but just another little puzzle atfer the 
 ending credits which isn't that great anyways.
  
  If this game were longer and a little more complex, this would have been a must own for DS owning 
 point and click adventure game fans. Too bad though, because I was disappointed. This could have 
 a really been a great game, but is only good if you're looking for some short fun (or if you play 
 games in short spurts) . A great game if you're an on the go college student like myself. But, other 
 than that, maybe rent it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: brandyinindiana
Rating: 8.4
Date: Jul 17, 2006 6:53 am PT
Review:  "Unravel the secrets of Blood Edward Island." That's the phrase Nintendo kept spouting before the 
 release of Trace Memory in the fall of 2005. That was also the line that first peeked my interest 
 when it comes to Trace Memory. That and the fact that I found a clearance copy at Target for $7.48. 
 
  
  To start, it should be said that Trace Memory is one of the only adventure titles available on 
 the DS. With all of the pressure placed upon the game as being a leader in its genre, I'm happy 
 to report that it does not disappoint. The gameplay is smooth right out of the box, with little 
 time needed for explanations. The touch screen can be used exclusively, or just when the game actually 
 demands it, and either form of control (D-Pad of otherwise) is very fluid and intuitive. The story 
 that you are navigating through also deserves hefty praise.
  
  You play as 13-year-old Ashley Robbins, on a desperate search for your father (whom you earlier 
 presumed dead) after receiving a letter stating otherwise. Your search, on Blood Edward Island, 
 will take you through various gardens, near mine shafts, through a large mansion expanse, and even 
 into an underground cave. 
  
  Towards the beginning of this journey you come across D, a ghostly figure who is suffering from 
 a severe case of amnesia. You both have the same goal, to find out what happened in your pasts, 
 and as such, D joins you on your way. This is where the story in Trace Memory really begins to 
 shine, with both a main and sub-plot to eventually explore.
  
  Puzzles abound, and break up the seemingly repetitive nature of the "enter room, find something, 
 leave room, rinse and repeat" system. These puzzles are great ways of showing the player the expanse 
 of capabilities in the DS's arsenal. There are the obvious "stroke, scratch, rub" puzzles, plus 
 a few "blow into the mic" puzzles as well. There is even a puzzle that requires you to physically 
 tilt your DS to cast a reflection of the top screen onto the touch screen to receive a clue. While 
 most of these puzzles are fairly easy, there are actually a couple of instances that had me momentarily 
 thinking "Huh? What do I do now?" which, of course, made the solving of said instances even more 
 gratifying.
  
  Blood Edward Island is a deserted plot of land, and the graphics represent this fact well. You 
 play the game from an overhead view, but the top and bottom screens change, independently of one 
 another, when there is something of interest in front of you. These still photos are very nicely 
 done, and it is obvious that the home is in a state of disrepair and misuse. Dust covers many objects, 
 allowing your mic to come into play on a few instances when you need to blow the dust off. One 
 of the best things about the graphics, however, is the fact that in Ashley's possession is a DS 
 looking device called a DTS, which contains a camera. You can, and will have to, use this camera 
 to take pictures of your surroundings, which can then be laid on top of one another to find hidden 
 messages, like codes and so forth.
  
  The sound department also fares well. The music is calming and tranquil, which matches the deserted 
 yet homey feel of the mansion which you will be spending the majority of gameplay exploring. There 
 are no fights and no ways to die, so dramatic music wouldn't even be necessary. The latter fact 
 alone makes this title great for the casual gamer in all of us.
  
  You can easily get through Trace Memory in a couple of sittings, or one very long car trip (around 
 four hours of gameplay in total) . Unfortunately, there aren't many extras, and you may initially 
 feel like the ending was anti-climactic, which is my one complaint about the game. 
  
  The story with Ashley does indeed become resolved, but D's doesn't seem to end as nicely. It would 
 have been better to see the depth of the rest of the title take a role in the ending as well. However, 
 after playing the game through a second time, you will notice some slight differences, which help 
 keep the story interesting. With a plot this intriguing to begin with, it definitely merits a second 
 (or third) go around. 
  
  In the end, Trace Memory is one of the first truly enjoyable games that incorporates most of the 
 special quirks and abilities that the DS has to offer. And now that most stores are starting to 
 lower their asking price for Trace Memory (even to the point of putting it on the clearance rack) , 
 it would be a crime not to pick it up.
  
  Review text part of GrrlGamer. com Full review and screenshots at:
  http://www. grrlgamer. com/review. php? g=tracememory 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Canuuk
Rating: 8.7
Date: Mar 15, 2006 10:17 pm PT
Review:  This is a very good mystery game that actually makes you solve many puzzles and makes you question 
 a lot. All characters have lots of depth and the story is very original and interesting. 
  
  Your character is very easy to control as you use the stylus on the touch screen. You can examine 
 a whole bunch of stuff and a few puzzles can get challenging. The graphics are very nice since 
 they are mostly in 3-D, except for the cut-scenes which are in anime. Lots of colour and detail 
 makes the game very enjoyable.
  
  The only downer Trace Memory has is the fact that it is extremely short. It took me about five 
 hours to complete the game. I sure wish the plot would have extended a lot further to add gameplay 
 hours.
  
  Overall, I like this game very much. I'll keep it in my collection. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Surreal-Alias
Rating: 8
Date: Mar 7, 2006 12:34 pm PT
Review:  This game was fun but not for everyone. It is for the kind of people who are patient and like puzzles. 
 The clues are real good because they are not obvious like most puzzle games. The story was great 
 and it all comes together at the end. I'm not going to give any spoilers though =P. The only problem 
 I had with this game was that it was too short but then I think that maybe it had to be in order 
 to get the full story out. If it was longer then it would just probably just be brought out and 
 the story wouldn't be as good. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Fire_Fly
Rating: 3
Date: Feb 12, 2006 8:43 am PT
Review:  WARNING, this is only for die hard fans of point and click/puzzle games. 
  The trouble is all there is to this game is pointing and clicking, and it gets repetitive quickly.
 
  I am more of an action kind of guy (check gamer tag "Duerden" on Halo 2 and you will see I am 
 not bad at that. If you to are like me then this game will probably bore you. I couldn't be bothered 
 to wade throught the puzzles so I just used the gamespot guide so I can atleast say I finished 
 it.
  The story is pretty good and it plays fluently. It has also given me a great idea. This is how 
 the next pokemon game could play, you point in the direction you want to run and the fights should 
 be like stadium on N64.
  
  Graphics, represented well but notheing special really happens
  Gameplay, dull unless you like 
 the genre
  Sound, not many tunes but they do the job
  Value, very short and not much replay value at all. If you want to get a second run through with 
 a few differences then blow out the candles after the credits
  Tilt (I do not know what this means so please tell me) (I am going to assume it means how suitable 
 the game is for the console/controller) This game is only possible for the DS 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Epoq
Rating: 7.7
Date: Jan 24, 2006 7:25 pm PT
Review:  This is indeed a very interesting game for more reason then one. As a game, it's both entertaining 
 and interesting, and solving the puzzles leaves an undeniable satisfaction. I think I need not 
 say more, as Gamespot has already done a fairly good and extensive review of this game. (And I 
 believe our purpose as user reviewers is to voice our experience with a said game briefly, not 
 do an entire re-review)
  
  Trace Memory, however, has had one too many pies of the same flavor tossed at it. Let me ask you 
 something: how many reviews have you read that describe the game as "short"?
  
  If you can't count them all on your right hand, cast your worries aside you are not alone, because 
 neither can I. Not that those reviews are necessarily wrong, but I wont delve into that right 
 now.
  
  The point I'm trying to make here is that the length of pretty much any game and how long it seemed 
 upon completing it is entirely relevant to the person playing that game. Yes, games do have a certain 
 set length, but in the end it's how often a person plays a game that really matters. 
  
  So if you're a casual gamer who likes to sit down with a game 30 to 45 minutes at a time, fear 
 not. Despite the perception all those reviews might give you, Trace Memory is not a 45-minute blip -- far 
 from it.
  
  But if you're a hard core "d00d" -- a video gaming expert who's just too "Xtreme" for the rest of 
 us and can take down 30 "n00bs" in 15 seconds, than you might want to look elsewhere for something 
 lengthy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: troll_jackal
Rating: 7.8
Date: Jan 23, 2006 6:11 pm PT
Review:  A nice game which uses most of the DS's features. It includes m=nice puzzles to use with the touch 
 screens and both screens together, an engaging storyline better presented than most other games 
 out there today, and nice graphics.
  The story is about a girl going to find her father who she thought was dead. Whe gets a DS-style 
 device called to help her. Along the way, she meets a ghost trying to recover his memory.
  The sound effects in the game are good, although some voice-acting would have made them brilliant. 
 The puzzles are fun to do, and it is the only game I played which integrates the DS's features 
 into the actual gameplay. However, the parts where the microphone is used aren't really that good. 
 The game is also nicely presented in the graphics department. The viewpoint could've been done 
 in a more birds-eye view to show off the 3D-models a bit more, but it still looks nice.
  Where this game suffers is in its replayablity. It takes around 5-7 hours to finish once. Although 
 some bits of story information and puzzles change the seconds time around, with a different ending 
 if you help recover all of D's memories, it won't really be a game that you will play again and 
 again. 
  Overall, however, it is a very good game with innovation and using the DS's features.
  
  http://spaces. msn. com/members/trolljackal 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GamerPlayer914
Rating: 6
Date: Jan 13, 2006 8:59 pm PT
Review:  Pros: Excellent execution; interesting story.
  Cons: Very short; puzzles and execution too hand-holding.
  
  Games on Nintendos bizarre little 
 handheld may not always turn out the best, but you have to hand it to them, because more often 
 then not they are innovative and interesting. Innovative and interesting are good ways to describe 
 Trace Memory, but unfortunately, worth the money is not.
  
  Blah, Blah Memories
  
  As the title would suggest, Trace Memory is about memories, those mysterious things in our heads 
 the Japanese feel compelled to reexamine in just about every RPG and anime. Ashley Mizuki Robbins 
 is a towheaded lass on a mission; long after both of her parents were thought to have died, she 
 receives a letter and a Nintendo D... er, DTS System directing her toward Blood Edward Island. 
 Upon arrival, her aunt and traveling companion promptly disappear, leaving Ashley to team up with 
 a forgetful ghost named D to find her father and solve the islands mysteries. While no flight 
 fantastic, its an interesting and subtle little adventure game.
  
  Trace Memorys execution is unique and perfectly suited to the DS. Youll run Ashley around a nicely 
 presented 3D world, tagging hotspots as you stumble upon them. As you approach significant areas 
 on the map, pictures of them appear on the top screen which can be examined in more detail, allowing 
 Ashley to peck about for items to pocket and puzzles to solve.
  
  Oh, the Puzzles Youll Solve!
  
  And, oh, the puzzles youll solve. After playing Trace Memory, 
 perhaps the biggest surprise is that the Edwards family is not a majority stakeholder in the Umbrella 
 Corporation. Books, medals -- you name it, and youll probably be sticking it into a hole to open 
 a door.
  
  Of course, youll also be doing lots of little stylus activities, like scratching, or assembling 
 and pressing things. Sadly, these activities arent as interesting as they could be, and chances 
 are youve already done several variants of them in other DS games already. Ashleys DTS can take 
 pictures, too, which do lead to some of the more interesting puzzles. They never get too hard, 
 unless you forgot to touch something beforehand.
  
  Stubborn Heroine
  
  The most annoying part of the game is Ashley and her momentum-crushing effect on your progress. 
 While you might have figured the puzzle already, she simply wont do the obvious thing until youve 
 shown her why she should do it. In some cases, this is also obvious, and in others infuriatingly 
 not. For example, Ashley wont pick up an item you need to solve a puzzle until after youve clicked 
 on the two things she needs to figure it out herself. Arent we the ones that are supposed to figure 
 this stuff out? This might be good for the younger set, but it will frustrate anyone else.
  
  Gray Matter
  
  Ashleys stubbornness aside, Trace Memory is worth a play-through, but not 
 worth owning except by the most die-hard adventure fans. For others, its the perfect rental, lasting 
 only a few short hours and, like most adventure games, doesnt have much value beyond that.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: necromaticgamer
Rating: 8.6
Date: Jan 11, 2006 4:56 pm PT
Review:  This game is nothing like i thought it would be. If youve ever played good old mist for the PC 
 its kinnda like that, sept a better story, better game play, and about 500x easyer then mist was. 
 Its a mystery solving game, and the best ive seen. All the other games like this were put on the 
 PC, abd appart from the first MIst they were all horrible. But the DS is a much better system for 
 the job. It brings the mystery to life! The story is anything but symple. At first all your doing 
 going to find your dad, who you thought was dead, on a erie island. When you get there your aunt 
 Jessica gose to look for your dad but she takes too long so you go off looking for her. But, of 
 corce, you hear her scream and you run off looking for her. Wile your hunting you run into a ghost 
 named "D". he asks you to help him find his lost memorys. So all through the game your trying to 
 solve the mystery of his past, and yours. And on top of that, whats up with your dad and whats 
 Trace all about. The game play is... well..... i dont know how to pu it. You just walk around and 
 find clues, ad solve puzzels. You have to have a taste for this kind of game, but if you dont it 
 will grow on you. How to play is really easay to figer out, but the puzzel solving is crazy. The 
 music fits the game very well. Pretty much every room has its own little hime. But it dose get 
 anoying when you hear a nose in the room and you think its something or someone, but all it is 
 is the music. The graphics are really nice. But I guess they would have to be. You dont want to 
 not be able to solve the mystery and all the puzzels beculse you cant tell what something is. This 
 game can be really hard, but it only took me about 4 hours to beat it. its very short but make 
 it last. stop and think about things. Try to solve the mystery of D beculse it never dose tell 
 you what really happend. And if you like the game, the good news is, it looks like theres gonna 
 be a second one! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: f4t4lfury
Rating: 7.8
Date: Jan 9, 2006 11:23 pm PT
Review:  Story:
  On the eve of her fourteenth birthday, Ashely Muzuki Robbins received a package from her father 
 (who she thought was dead) containing a mysterious gadget called DTS (which looks a lot like a 
 DS) , and an invitation to come to Blood Edward Island to meet him. She boards a boat and sets off 
 for the island. Once she reaches the island she is befriended by a ghost named "D" who wants Ashley 
 to help him recover his memories.
  
  Controls:
  The stylus is used to very good effect in Trace Memory. You touch and hold the direction you want 
 Ashley to run in. Accessing your inventory and other information is very easy with the stylus as 
 well. Controls are mostly responsive; there are only a few spots here and there where if you're 
 dragging something, you might lose your grip, so to speak, and have to touch it again to drag it 
 further. As you progress throughout the game, you will discover that Trace Memory incorporates 
 every single feature of the DS
  that you can imagine (and some that you've probably never thought of before) . You can also speed 
 up the text.
  
  Gameplay:
  This is your basic puzzle/adventure game, but delievered in a much different way than simply pointing 
 and clicking or using a d-pad and the A button. You will be forced to think creatively about how 
 to solve puzzles. Sometimes you will have to remember things you just saw in a previous puzzle 
 in order to solve the next one. Some puzzles are very basic (turn a wheel) , while some are very 
 challenging (I won't ruin the game for you, but you will certainly be thinking outside the box) . 
 The puzzles are only frustrating insofar as you will simply have never thought of using the DS 
 in the way required. But once you figure out the solution, you will be happily surprised (and relieved!) .
 
  
  Graphics:
  Both 3-D and 2-D graphics are combined using the DS's dual screens. You will navigate in 3-D environments 
 on the bottom screen while conversations and a more detailed view of the environment will appear 
 on the top screen in 2-D.
  
  Replay Value:
  The storyline about Ashley finding her father and also helping D to recover his memories is pleasantly 
 engaging. The game's ending is also very satisfactory and will not leave you hanging. Though there 
 are a few unlockables (such as Starred Game or Bonus Mail Ending) for completing the game more 
 than once, there is not much replay value to this title. The game itself is very short (depending 
 on how long it takes you to figure out the puzzles) . I completed it in about six hours, and I'm 
 not the best puzzle-solver.
  
  Closing Thoughts:
  I would certainly recommend this game to anyone who likes a good puzzler. I would also recommend 
 it to anyone who wants to see what the DS is capable of. Trace Memory is a very intuitive game; 
 I just wish there was more of it. Maybe there will be a meatier sequel in the future. If you're 
 not hardcore into puzzlers, then I'd say rent this one if you have the option, or wait until the 
 price drops under $20.
  
  Game Quote:
  "That's a big rock." 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gamecube124
Rating: 9.2
Date: Dec 30, 2005 1:39 am PT
Review:  I got this game with my Wal-Mart card from the Holidays because I thought it look great, and I 
 wasn't!
  
  Very easy to learn, and has many puzzles though they may be too easy. Quick and easy to get into 
 most will not be disappointed by this, but those who want more than about 5-8 hours of gameplay 
 should turn away.
  
  Here come the bashes...
  -At the end "D" should remember his full name, but doesn't
  -Richard should be able to see "D" 
 at the end
  -Ending was a little bland
  -Credits rolled way too slow!
  
  Good story, Bad replay.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: NDS_GBA_Atari
Rating: 6.3
Date: Dec 29, 2005 4:11 pm PT
Review:  It Was A Very Good Game. Its Surprisingly Short , But Its Worth It. If You Rock At Puzzle Games 
 , It Will Be Done Quickly. But If You Suck , It'll Be Longer Than Expected. Its A Good Overall 
 Game. Also , The Graphics Rock Except For When You're In The '' Time To Walk Around Hopelessly 
 Trying To Find Clues Leading To The Whereabouts Of Your Supposedly Dead Father And Your Aunt Of 
 Whom You Have Been Living With Since He Was Said To Be Dead '' Phase. When You're Just In A Conversation 
 Scene , Or Talking To Someone , Its Good Graphics. Honestly , The Game Was Not As Good As I Expected 
 It To Be , WAY Too Short Of A Game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DevilMayCry09
Rating: 8.4
Date: Dec 27, 2005 2:20 pm PT
Review:  I got this game just a couple of days ago, and I gotta say I can't stop playing. This is an example 
 of a game that could have only be done on the DS. It is also an example of how games should be 
 done, with ORIGINALITY, not just more and more of the same.
  The story of the game is just a hell of a great mystery one, you really fell the tension, and the 
 anxiety growing, ridiculously great, jeje.
  Another thing that is great in this game is the use of the characteristics od the DS, the touch 
 screen, the microphone, etc. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Clavisblade
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 27, 2005 12:59 pm PT
Review:  The Game "Trace Memory" is a very innovative game were you follow the lead of a girl named Ashley. 
 Her parents went missing when she was young and 10 years later (she is thirteen and turns 14 the 
 next day) She get a DTS (Which looks nothing like the DS (Just kidding) ) . The game play it's self 
 is very interesting and in all it is a fun game. It is like a interactive story book (Yeah books 
 are fun) . I am currently enjoying the game it I'm totally pulled in. The story is great and one 
 of the best I've seen in the game. So if your into a lot of action this game isn't for you , but 
 if your into great stories, Puzzles and mysteries this is the game for you.
  
  P. S. Alas the game is to short and when you wish for more it leaves you.
  
  P. S. S. It would 
 be great if nintendo game out with series of games like this because it it is (was) really fun 
 (Interactive DS Stories!!!) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Donutta
Rating: 6
Date: Dec 16, 2005 9:37 pm PT
Review:  Ever since Another Code was announced in Japanese magazines last year, there has been an enormous 
 amount of hype hat has surrounded it in the underground arena. Its not hard to see why the game, 
 developed by the little known company of Cing, has had so many people embracing it: Its an original 
 title in a genre that is almost forgotten in the days of sandbox gameplay and licensed titles. 
 Another Code is an adventure game, one that plays like the offspring of Myst and the Lucasarts 
 point-and-click titles, such as Sam and Max. With its charming presentation, intriguing story, 
 and unique use of the DS innovative features, Another Code is competent example of its genre. 
 However, the game has many shortcomings and ultimately fails to live up to the hype created for 
 it.
  
  Another Code casts the player as young, white-haired protagonist Ashley, whose frail appearance 
 causes her to come across looking like a trendy version of Icos Yorda. The game starts with Ashley 
 travelling via boat to Blood Edward Island to meet her father, who was previously presumed dead, 
 after receiving a mysterious package the day before her 14th birthday. Upon arriving at the island, 
 Ashleys father is ominously absent, and after Ashleys aunt, Jessica, fails to return from searching 
 for him, its up to Ashley to solve the dilemma. Along the way, she enters an abandoned mansion 
 on the island and discovers there is far more to the situation than she bargained for. She must 
 then undertake the task of piecing together all the missing parts of the puzzle that is before 
 her.
  
  The game can be played, for the most part, with the d-pad and buttons or by guiding Ashley with 
 the stylus, with the latter feeling more smooth and fluid. The games display spreads itself across 
 the two screens nicely. The touch screen displays a top-down, real time image of Ashley and her 
 surroundings, while the top screen displays a pre-rendered view of areas that are of interest to 
 Ashley. As the pre-rendered image changes, Ashley can choose to look at the contents of the frame, 
 and the rendered view is displayed on the touch screen. This is where the game takes a cue from 
 Myst, as the player must click on anything that looks of interest to examine it. Ultimately, the 
 game dissolves into its rather basic core, where a player simply guides Ashley around the environment 
 looking for new rendered screens to appear, followed by clicking on anything that looks important. 
 However, because the important items are often ridiculously small and obscure, while many of the 
 objects are pointless, it often leads to a tedious experience of trial and error.
  
  Another annoying trait with the game is the fact that despite Ashleys apparently bottomless inventory, 
 you can only pick up an item once you have found a purpose for it. So while you know that the angel 
 with the drum is obviously going to be important later on, you cant pick it up until you find 
 its exact use. This can lead to a bunch of pointless backtracking, which becomes quite tiresome 
 towards the end of the game. However, using the items you find in puzzles is often creative and 
 a fine use of the DS abilities without being gimmicky. The puzzles start of basic at first, simply 
 rearranging pieces of a broken sign or typing in a key-code - nothing that couldnt be done on 
 a conventional console. However, later on, players will find themselves blowing into the microphone 
 to clear dust of a picture or using the stylus to throw objects into the top screen. Some of the 
 more complex puzzles are almost aggravatingly obscure and its likely many players will only uncover 
 the solution by fluke.
  
  The linear nature of Another Code is probably its most puzzling aspect - no pun intended. The story 
 is the major driving force of events, meaning players will progress through the mansion only after 
 they have uncovered certain parts of the story. Yet because some of the puzzles to uncover the 
 story are so obscure, the game can grind to a standstill at points. Even more strange is the fact 
 that the subplot appears to be both a driving force and entirely optional. Unveiling this part 
 of the story often revolves around finding hidden items in bookcases and such, and it is possible 
 to finish the game without ever resolving this part of the story, which seems a major focus for 
 a large chunk of the game. However, the most frustrating aspect about Another Codes linearity 
 is the games length. Clocking in at about 5 hours, the game is disappointingly short. 5 hours 
 wouldnt be a problem if the game was worth replaying after completion, but due to the linear nature 
 of the gameplay and story, it isnt. Players will probably only wish to play again if they didnt 
 conclude the subplot, or if they wish to try the remixed mode, which seems to only have trivial 
 features, such as replacing birds with ninjas.
  
  Another Code really does have a lot going for it, and its a game that really wants you to like 
 it. The graphics and design are impressive, the characters are generally charismatic, and the use 
 of the DS unique features is excellent. The sound effects are sparse and the music can begin to 
 grate after a while, but Another Code is generally a very polished package. Unfortunately, the 
 linear nature of the gameplay and story, coupled with the games length, means that it doesnt 
 really live up to its hype or potential. Its certainly refreshing to see this type of game today 
 and had it been longer, it would be easier to recommend. Unfortunately, it just isnt worth the 
 asking price. Unless you have the ability to rent DS games or you have a large disposable income, 
 this is a game that is best purchased from the inevitable bargain bins.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Yoshi_Lover
Rating: 3
Date: Dec 2, 2005 4:30 pm PT
Review:  Wow when i first heard about this game i thought this could be a very interesting game! But when 
 i finally picked it up i found myself trying and TRYING to get into it..... you know how you sometimes 
 start a game and youre a little dissapointed but once you get into it you realize it's potential? 
 well this isnt one of those games... it gets more boring and less interesting as the game goes 
 on. The graphics were also dissapointing since games like Super mario 64 DS and Mario Kart DS are 
 out i thought developers would be inspiered to use the full potential of the NDS but its like they 
 dnt try. Also the camera and gameplay are very restricting making this game extreamly linear. I 
 only got through half the game before i traded it in. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Revolution17
Rating: 8.3
Date: Dec 1, 2005 8:27 am PT
Review:  First and foremost, this is not Broken Sword. It has neither the charm, lifespan, storyline or 
 puzzles to even compare to the granddaddy of the point n click.
  It is however far from a bad game with an excellent story, which is surprisingly dark and a few 
 truly excellent puzzles, utilising the DS with satisfactory precision. It is short however and 
 is best picked up cheap or second hand. Also despite some unlockable features once you complete 
 the game, there is little replay value as well. The system of zooming in is great and there are 
 loads of oppurtunities to use the stylus. It is surprisingly great fun
  Trace memory is far from perfect, but it is still and excellent and recommendable title with a 
 superb storyline.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: disciple_slave
Rating: 8.1
Date: Nov 29, 2005 6:50 am PT
Review:  Games have been getting increasingly harder over the years with twisted puzzles and crazy AI. Its 
 great once and awhile to sit down and just breeze through a game or two. Trace memory does just 
 that. I loved the game with its unique stylus and microphone usage and its text driven storyline. 
 I felt I was reading a virtual book. Even though I sometimes found myself getting confused on whom 
 people were, I felt it was the point of the game to confuse the player until the end. Its a very 
 short game, I myself beating it in 5 hours and 7 minutes. I would have been less if I hadnt tried 
 to explore. But, overall, the game is fantastic and I hope I see more of its kind in the future. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Marz_Strife
Rating: 9.4
Date: Nov 19, 2005 3:14 pm PT
Review:  Trace Memory is a great game in all aspects except in its length. It is way to short. But, considering 
 the fact that all most every DS game to come out, excluding sports games, are capable of being 
 beaten in under in less than a day, you cant really hold it against it too much. This is also 
 the first DS game that I have played that used the microphone. I enjoyed using it even though you 
 only use it twice, and all you do is blow on it! The touch screen is capable of everything in this 
 game. And I do mean EVERYTHING! Movement, searching, talking, and solving puzzles. You dont even 
 need to use the select or the start buttons! The puzzles themselves range from pre-school to Myst 
 level. For those of us who have played Myst we know that those puzzles are pains in the ass. Also, 
 when you beat it, you have the option of saving it again and starting over from the beginning. 
 Personally, I think that all games should have this feature. As I said before, it is a great game 
 and worth buying. On a scale of 1 to 10, I give it an 8. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: _pants_
Rating: 6.3
Date: Nov 13, 2005 5:14 pm PT
Review:  Fantastic story, nice plot premise, awesome visuals utilising the dual screen well, but I completed 
 the game in just over 5 hours! Disappointing... I took the game back and traded it in for something 
 else with a little more lastability. 
  
  Gorgeous manga/anime styled character visuals teamed with classic point and click gaming make for 
 an enthralling experience. I thought that the storyline turned a tad too predictable toward the 
 mid-section of the game, spoiling what could have been a game full of twists and turns plot-wise.
 
  
  My advice? An excellent game to rent for a night and return the next day. The only saving grace 
 with my copy was that I was able to take it back to the place of purchase and exchange --- my $69.95 
 wasn't a total waste!
  For what it's worth, Trace Memory/Another Code: Two Memories kept me amused for 5 hours on a Saturday 
 morning.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: duerdest
Rating: 6
Date: Nov 12, 2005 4:18 am PT
Review:  WARNING, this is only for die hard fans of point and click/puzzle games. 
  The trouble is all there is to this game is pointing and clicking, and it gets repetitive quickly.
 
  I am more of an action kind of guy (check gamer tag "Duerden" on Halo 2 and you will see I am 
 not bad at that. If you to are like me then this game will probably bore you. I couldn't be bothered 
 to wade throught the puzzles so I just used the gamespot guide so I can atleast say I finished 
 it.
  The story is pretty good and it plays fluently. It has also given me a great idea. This is how 
 the next pokemon game could play, you point in the direction you want to run and the fights should 
 be like stadium on N64.
  
  Graphics, represented well but notheing special really happens
  Gameplay, dull unless you like 
 the genre
  Sound, not many tunes but they do the job
  Value, very short and not much replay value at all. If you want to get a second run through with 
 a few differences then blow out the candles after the credits
  Tilt (I do not know what this means so please tell me) (I am going to assume it means how suitable 
 the game is for the console/controller) This game is only possible for the DS 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Kenshi_is_god
Rating: 8.2
Date: Nov 8, 2005 1:51 pm PT
Review:  
  
  I got Trace Memory about a week ago, and I played for a litte each day. The past few days though, 
 I got really interested and was playing for about 2 hours each day. This game will drag you in, 
 but it is short.
  
  First off, the story is incredible. It's very interesting and keeps you going. You play the role 
 as Ashley Robbins, who has been raised by her aunt, Jessica, ever since she was three. She has 
 been told her father and mother were dead, but on the day of her 14th birthday, she receives a 
 package from her "dead" father. So immediately, she follows what the letter says and goes to Blood 
 Edward Island, with her aunt Jessica. Her dad was supposed to meet her there at the dock, but he 
 didn't. Jessica goes off to look for him, but she doesn't come back... Ashley starts to worry, and 
 soon off ventures into the mysterious, "abandoned" island herself. All you know, is all Ashley 
 knows, and you find out more and more, and the truth behind her parents death as the game progresses. 
 Each character is unique and has a story behind them. There is a lot of talk in the beginning, 
 but don't let that turn you off, once you get past it, the game gets going. 
  
  The gameplay is ok, it has unique puzzles, but most aren't that hard. the game does make use of 
 the DS's features (the microphone, the Touch screen, dual screens, etc.) . It's a fun adventurous 
 game. Like I said, the puzzles are all over, but most lack difficulty and length. A lot of the 
 game is running around the mansion trying to solve the puzzles and clues, while trying to help 
 Ashley remember her past, and find her dad.
  
  The sound is ok, there is no voice dialogue, it's all text. But the creepy sounds in the mansion 
 add to the experiance, all in all, the sound delivers, but it's nothing mind blowing.
  
  The graphics are pretty impressive 3D graphics for a first generation DS game. The view is from 
 the skydown (like the first couple GTA's) but not at a complete 90 degree angle, i would say around 
 75 to 80. And it's 3D, not 2D like the GTA's. (im only comparing this game to GTA by the camera, 
 just so you get what im saying) .
  
  Value : Trace Memory doesnt have much value to it. Although it is a fun experiance and a good game 
 althogether, it's short and has VERY little replay value.
  
  All in all, Trace Memory delivers a fun, entertaining, but short experiance. If you can pick this 
 one up for around 30 or less, and have the money, I recommend it. Out of "10", I'd give it a "8.3". 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: berrybluepuff
Rating: 7.8
Date: Nov 6, 2005 2:27 pm PT
Review:  Trace memory was a great game in all but it was way to short! It only took me 3 days to complete 
 it. I bought it because I read that it was a good game. It is a good game worth playing but dont 
 expect it to go into great detail and be long. The game is focused on two characters. The main 
 character is Ashley Mizuki Robbins and she is searching for her father. Along the way she meets 
 a spirit who inhabits the land named D. He is searching for the truth about his past and how he 
 died. As the game goes on Ashley starts to remember things and not only wants to find her father 
 but needs to know what happened to her mother. The game is all about Ashley and D trying to regain 
 their memories. They both witness the murder of a loved one (at separate times in history) and 
 block it out; so, they help each other to find out what happened. This game is great if you like 
 puzzles and solving mysteries. The graphics are great for a handheld system but the music although 
 nice was lacking something. There was no voiceover and an excessive amount of dialogue to read. 
 After a while I was tired of reading so much and wished that they just had voiceovers. Over all 
 the game was fun. I would recommend this game if you like to solve puzzles using the clues they 
 give, but like I stated before this game is too short. So, if you think you would like this game 
 go out and get it. It is a good game overall. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jdclanc
Rating: 8.2
Date: Nov 2, 2005 1:38 am PT
Review:  Gameplay: The point and click adventure game isn't my cup of tea, but if you like the genre you 
 will like this. However, it is much easier than a game like Myst.
  
  Graphics: The still animation shots are great, but the 2-D overhead shots are bad.
  
  Sound: 
 Great music. Sets the mood perfectly.
  
  Value: Very short, 5-6 hours, but it seemed longer. Some replay value if you want the good ending. 
 I just read the spoliers. Rent it if you can.
  
  Tilt: The story felt somewhat mediocre as I played, but by the end I felt very satisifed. Enjoyable 
 experience overall. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bluedragon99
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 28, 2005 8:06 am PT
Review:  This game is Awesome, i haven't beaten it yet but im amazed by some of the graphics. it has twisting 
 storyline, and well kind of creep you out at times, but is an awesome purchase. i bought it at 
 a reasonable price of $30. It was even new, i thought it was cheep so i got it. i give it a 10, 
 other games you should look at are Pheonix Wright and Trauma Center. it gets complecated at times 
 but you can just use commmon sense..... or a Walkthrough! I used the first walkthrough listed on 
 cheats. gamespot. com, it was very helpful. i'd like to thank my mom for ghettong me this game otherwise 
 i probably wouldn't have bought it first out of the other 2 games i listed. my mom is pretty smart 
 for a 32-year old non-gamer. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Odysseycat
Rating: 8
Date: Oct 23, 2005 6:06 pm PT
Review:  This game have took me about an hour or two to play but the story is interesting as its goes but 
 I really do wish that they made the game longer and the puzzles harder. For the graphics to tell 
 you the truth every time I play this game it makes me think about the game Myst since they show 
 you the view of the room on the screen above, for the puzzles though they wont take you hours 
 like other Adventure games will, itll take you about a few seconds to solve or instantly. But 
 on the bright side though at least your character doesnt die when you did something wrong, right? 
 But if I still havent convinced you to buy this game at least you can borrow it from a friend 
 or something. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Jin66
Rating: 8.7
Date: Oct 23, 2005 2:02 am PT
Review:  THIS GAME DESERVES A HIGHER SCORE!!!!! 
  storyline is great, graphics are great, and gameplay is one of the best utilizations of the touch 
 screen to date. puzzles are innovative and some will have you gasping in amazement at the genious 
 of the design. ok ok so its short (4-6hrs) but that doenst make it a bad game. If you dont feel 
 like buying it by all means rent it and PLAY THE GAME. it is a game that must be played by anyone 
 who owns a ds because this is why the system was made, to play games like this. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: godcubepablo
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 23, 2005 12:16 am PT
Review:  This is a perfect game. The people that say it is very short is because they are the kind of gamers 
 that sat all day in front of the DS or a t. v and dont think in nothing else than in games. It took 
 me 9:43 to complete the game for the first time expending 30 - 60 minutes a day so it was like 
 one week and a half more or less. The graphics are the best i have see for the ds specially when 
 in the touch screen the camera is showing the enviroment in 3D and not in the helicopter view. 
 The gameplay and the sound are perfect for this type of game and the puzzles may not be difficult 
 but tryng to find out zoetrope paper and the codes for opening the doors can become frustrating 
 in the good way. The history of this game is so immersive that my heart begin to pump fastly in 
 some parts especially in the part when Richard was going to be killed.
  I lived in Colombia and I shipped this game from New York (because here is difficult to find that 
 kind of games very soon) the day it was out in stores I waited for 2 long weeks until i could played 
 it, i payed for it almost the double price and I take less time to pass it than the time it taked 
 dor it to arrive to my house and no matter all that because I think This is the best DS game ever 
 and i felt that my money was well spended. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: anaisa3
Rating: 7
Date: Oct 19, 2005 7:12 am PT
Review:  I was hesitant to get the DS, but this is one of those games that inspired me to give it a try. 
 The concept of the game is intriguing. It was a nice break from all the rolling, jumping, fighting 
 etc. that you do with other games. It has nice graphics, the storyline is interesting and the dual 
 screens are utilized effectively. The puzzles are good because they are easy enough to make you 
 feel like a real detective but not so easy that you think they're stupid. I was enjoying the game 
 when the next thing I know, it was over. I only played it for two days. I think they could've done 
 more with the character "D". Especially in replay. But who wants to solve the mystery all over 
 again when you know all the secrets?
  
  This game is like a half ride on your favorite roller coaster. Great fun but over before you get 
 to fully enjoy it. Rent it or borrow it. You'll enjoy it! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ZeroSonicT
Rating: 7.1
Date: Oct 18, 2005 5:29 pm PT
Review:  This game was really fun while it lasted. It had a nice plot, and a good game play, but way too 
 short. The game would have been ten times better if they had expanded on the storyline and made 
 it longer. It's replay value is low because it's a mystery game, and, well.... you know the mystery 
 all ready and that's no fun. A really good game for a rental, but with almost no replay value, 
 a short story, and no multiplayer function, the game wares out fast. So, rent the game, play it 
 for a too short but sweet time, then return it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: neeker
Rating: 7
Date: Oct 16, 2005 5:35 am PT
Review:  The Nintendo DS has served up some intriguing games of late, and Trace Memory is definitely one 
 of them. Unlike games that place emphasis on violent contents to attract a fan base, Trace Memory 
 relies on the good old point-and-expore adventures that we used to play on the PC. With many instances 
 of puzzle-solving, several areas for exploration, as well as some stunning visual and audio presentations, 
 Trace Memory could really be one of the best DS games to date. Unfortunately, before we could even 
 get warmed up, it's over. The length, or lack of it, of the game is perhaps the one thing the mar 
 the otherwise great adventure. 
  The plot of the game is simple. You assume the role of Ashley Mizuki Robbins, the daughter of a 
 pair of scientists working on a research known only as "Trace". Believing that your parents were 
 dead, you were surprised to receive a package from your father just before your 14th birthday. 
 The package contains a DTS (Dual Trace System) , which looks exactly like the Nintendo DS, as well 
 as an invitation to a certain Blood Edward Island to meet him. Your adventure begins on this island, 
 which used to house the Edward family. 
  While searching for your father on the island, you come across the ghost of a boy named "D", who 
 has been dead for almost 57 years. Logic tells you that he has something to do with the Edwards. 
 So begins a few hours of companionship, which sees D and you scout around the island and the Edwards' 
 mansion for clues that may lead to a recovery of both his or your memories. 
  Throughout the search, you'll encounter several puzzles that made up the bulk of the game's gameplay. 
 The puzzles you find can range from the relatively easy, to the ultimately head-banging. Solving 
 puzzles mostly requires the use of your stylus, but at times, the entire DS comes into play - no, 
 I'm not kidding. In fact, some of the puzzles in this game can't be solved unless you find an out-of-the-box 
 way to utlilise your DS. 
  Examining the areas in this game will unlock several items, which will be useful in solving the 
 puzzles. Backtracking is frequently required, however, because you won't pick up items that you 
 find no use of. Apart from items, you'll also find DTS cards, which are shaped like a Nintedo DS 
 game cart. These carts contain messages from your father to you, as well as his journals. Reading 
 them will give you more insight into the story. 
  Puzzles and items aside, you'll come across snippets of the past all over the game. These will 
 either trigger D's, or your very own memories. Collecting all memories for D will unlock an alternate 
 ending, but it's not essential for the completion of the game. Unless you're a completist, or you 
 really feel for him, you may just conveniently get done with your side of the story and move on. 
 
  As I mentioned, the game is relatively short though, and a first attempt going through it shouldn't 
 take you than five hours. A second playthrough, if you already know the puzzles and manage to skip 
 past the conversations, will take half that amount of time. All in all, the length of the game 
 makes it really unfulfilling if you're looking for a longer adventure. Completing it a second time, 
 however, unlocks some different messages of DTS cards, as well as an additional ending, which may 
 interest some players. But after that, you'll find no incentive to replay the game. 
  Still, you can't fault Cing's attempt in creating the game. Not when the graphics are so beautifully 
 rendered, and the sound, so perfectly complementary. You'll find both 2D and 3D graphics in this 
 game, and they're drawn in a mixture of anime and American style, which should appeal to people 
 from most masses. The details on closed-up items are also nicely drawn, which is a testimony to 
 how much effort has been put into the graphic designs. The audios may be a little bland for some 
 quarters, but the various background music fit the mood of the scenarios pretty well, which is 
 also a plus point for any game. 
  In close, I'll say that Trace Memory is a fun game for fans who enjoy games of this genre. However, 
 even so, it may not be worth the retail price since it's just too short. I'd only recommend a purchase 
 if you don't mind the length, or if you're looking for a short, but refreshing game that doesn't 
 take up too much of your time to complete. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: thuga
Rating: 6.7
Date: Oct 10, 2005 11:08 am PT
Review:  hi every body i've played trace memory and i think that it is a prety good game but it could be 
 a bit longer i passed it in 4 Hrs.
  In the begining i thought it was a great game and with the passing of the time the story gets more 
 and more intresting but there is a part of the game that we start realising that it's getting close 
 to the end and I thought that was just my idea but after a bit I finished it
  
  But I think there will be a sequell.
  
  Thuga,
  
  
  
  
  (sorry about my english) 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Shleco
Rating: 7.6
Date: Sep 27, 2005 10:09 am PT
Review:  Do you remember what you got for your fourteenth birthday? A bike? A video game? Clothes? Ashley 
 Mizuki Robins got something a bit different from the norm - a letter from her father who she thought 
 had died when she was three and a small device that looks quite similar to a DS. However, her father 
 is on a remote little place on the sea known as Blood Edward Island... sounds a bit creepy, no? 
 At least you have Auntie Jessica with you... well, you do until she goes off to look for your Dad 
 and doesn't come back. So Trace Memory begins, a game well worth raving about but at the same time, 
 revealing the best bits will spoil the game for you. Still, doesn't stop me trying!
  
  Nintendo and Cing's collaboration plays like an interactive novel, so it's just as well that the 
 story is one of it's strong points. The mysteries around your parents and the island are gradually 
 unravelled through conversations with other characters, all of which are pretty likable and avoid 
 Americanisms that can so often grate in a Japanese title, and picking up various bits and pieces. 
 While the game is pretty text heavy, this is not a problem at all and you just get hooked into 
 the search for your father, amongst other things. Some gorgeous artwork, which is well animated, 
 and some atmospheric music also get you into the puzzle-solving mood and while some of the 3D graphics 
 displayed on the bottom screen can be a bit rough, it still retains a strong stylish appearance. 
 The other little neat touch is that Ashley has the same birthday as you - quite shocking as many 
 probably forgot they put their birthday into the DS when they first got it - and it all helps to 
 relating to her character more and building up an emotional bond.
  
  As for the puzzles themselves, some of them will have you screaming, "That's genius!", at your 
 DS - once you've sussed them out! The early stuff is quite simple, from piecing a sign together 
 with the stylus to scrubbing rust off an iron grinder but the later stuff makes fantastic use of 
 the DS besides the touch-screen feature. Perhaps some might be irked how you need to find the puzzle 
 first, then the solution - for instance, you can't pick up the metal brush until you've seen the 
 iron grinder on which you have to use it - though others will welcome the element of 'thinking 
 back' and once you've become accustomed to this idea it's not a problem.
  
  Controlling Ashley on the bottom screen (the top will show a still from a first-person perspective 
 depending on where you are) is a breeze. You just point to where you want to go and she goes there 
 - easy! That the game controls so well reflects the care, detail and attention that Cing have applied 
 to the title. They've ensured that the only frustrations you're going to have are with the puzzles, 
 which have a pretty logical basis once you clock the solution but it's good to see a handheld title 
 stretch the grey matter without needing to be a member of MENSA to solve any of them.
  
  What there is of Trace Memory is sublime and gripping. More importantly, it shows that these games 
 can work well on the Nintendo DS and we can only hope someone else eventually does the obvious 
 and makes some good old-fashioned point-and-click titles. However, what there is of the game isn't 
 really that much. The game consists of six chapters and can be completed in around five hours. 
 Furthermore, as an adventure it appears to offer little replay value, besides tracking down some 
 extra cards for Ashley's DAS. The game doesn't seem to have other endings either, though the fate 
 of one character differs depending on how much information you got on them. As such, it'd be hard 
 to recommend buying this game at full asking price, as even without any unnecessary padding that 
 so many games resort to, it is still a little brief. However, if you're comfortable with it's brevity, 
 it's a title well worth checking out. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
