-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Transformers: Decepticons
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/ds/action/transformersmoviedec/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 It's a &quot;giant robots&quot; rendition of Grand Theft Auto.
 collecting new transformations for your own bot is sweet.
 voice acting is generally top-notch, and there's loads of it.
 solid 3D visuals.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 Missions are repetitive and derivative.
 the brainless camera and targeting cursor cause too many deaths.
 it's a short game even if you consider optional challenges.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Jul  3, 2007
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 6.5
Critic Score: 6.9, 27 Review (s)
User Score: 7.6, 276 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Activision
Developer: Vicarious Visions
Genre: Sci-Fi Action Adventure
Date: Jun 19, 2007
ESRB: Everyone 10+

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Smashing other robots and transforming into different vehicles is generally fun, but the game is 
 short and the missions are often uninspiring. 

  Transformers: Autobots and Transformers: Decepticons are two sides of the same coin. Both games 
 tell the same general story, they both share the same environments, and they both let you run amok 
 as a robot that can transform into various vehicles. The main thing distinguishing the two versions 
 is that you fight as a heroic Autobot in one and an evil Decepticon in the other. Regardless of 
 which version you choose to bring home, you'll probably get a kick out of beating up opposing robots 
 and exploring the huge 3D environments incognito as a car, helicopter, or some other Earthly conveyance. 
 The bad news is that the uninspiring story missions and brief overall length pretty much guarantee 
 you'll be done with the game for good in six hours or less.  

           You mainly control a generic bot that answers to Prime or Starscream.      

  When 
 you first start the game, you'll watch a short video clip narrated by either Optimus Prime or Starscream 
 (depending on the version) that explains how Megatron, the Decepticon leader, came to Earth 100 
 years ago searching for something called the "Allspark," and how both the Autobots and Decepticons 
 have come to Earth to reclaim the mysterious artifact. Key events from the recent movie are depicted, 
 but the human point of view is notably absent. On the Autobots' side, you take orders from Optimus 
 Prime and go out on missions that involve gathering information, escorting human vehicles, or stopping 
 Decepticon raids. On the Decepticons' side, you'll answer to Starscream and your missions will 
 mainly involve causing public destruction and stealing from fortified military bases. Both games 
 share three locations in common and have one exclusive location. In the Autobots version, you'll 
 shadow the military's recovery of Megatron from the Arctic. In the Decepticons version, you'll 
 take part in the Decepticon assault in Qatar. Also, each version has its own, unique ending.  

 
  A good way to describe the game is that it's Grand Theft Auto with giant robots instead of mobsters. 
 As the story unfolds, you'll find yourself in large 3D environments complete with streets, buildings, 
 traffic lights, and innocent car traffic. You can go anywhere you like on foot or in vehicle form, 
 and you're free to climb up buildings, smash light poles, and throw cars around. In your vehicle 
 form, nobody will take notice of you. However, if you roam around on foot or cause enough damage, 
 robots from the other side as well as military vehicles will take notice of you and attack with 
 lasers and armor-piercing bullets. You can fight back with your robotic fists or dish out the pain 
 from a distance with your own lasers and missiles. Reducing rival robots to rubble is satisfying, 
 but the combat is also very shallow. You have a few melee and weapon attacks, you can move out 
 of the way of oncoming fire, and you can jump -- that's it. There aren't any power-up items to speak 
 of either, apart from the health-recovery orbs that exploding objects and robots occasionally leave 
 behind. CPU-controlled enemies also do a lousy job of avoiding your attacks, although they generally 
 have twice as much armor as you do. When you get bored of fighting, you can transform into your 
 vehicle form and hide until the alert level goes back to normal.  

  Scattered throughout each environment are a number of spots that you can visit in order to attempt 
 various challenge and story-related missions. Challenge missions involve simple tasks such as destroying 
 cars or racing from one place to another. You can replay challenge missions as often as you like. 
 By contrast, story missions are doled out in a set order and involve multi-step tasks that occasionally 
 let you control familiar Transformers. In the Autobots version, you'll have opportunities to take 
 Bumblebee, Optimus Prime, Ironhide, Jazz, and Ratchet for a spin. In the Decepticons edition, you'll 
 have brief stints with Barricade, Brawl, Blackout, Starscream, and Megatron. For the majority of 
 missions, though, you'll control your generic create-a-bot. Being a create-a-bot has its perks. 
 First, while the namesake bots have preordained rankings for strength and firepower, your generic 
 bot's rankings continually grow as you gain experience from completing missions. Secondly, your 
 custom bot isn't limited to a single transformation like the others are. You start out with a "beater" 
 body, but you can gain new transformations by scanning the vehicles you come across on your travels. 
 Your create-a-bot can transform into as many as 37 different cars, trucks, helicopters, and airplanes. 
 Some skins even resemble popular characters from the Generation One cartoon and toy line.  

  The game's biggest problem is that the majority of mission designs lack creativity and fail to 
 include familiar Transformers characters. Out of 30 story missions, roughly one-third bring transformations 
 into play or involve a dramatic battle against a key foe. The rest simply involve traveling from 
 one place to another or destroying a certain number of objects before time runs out, while the 
 majority of enemies are military vehicles and generic no-name robots. Doing the same boring missions 
 all the time gets old rather quickly. The thrill of exploring the world as a Transformer also wears 
 off eventually. At some point after an hour or two, you'll find yourself going through the motions 
 only because you want to see how the story ends. As it is, the story mode barely takes four hours 
 to finish.  

  All of the robots look nice up close, and their face and body details are generally well-defined. 
 Transformations happen in a few quick steps and are totally sweet. The streets and buildings in 
 the surrounding environment look simple by comparison and occasionally suffer from blocky or missing 
 textures, but the sheer number of objects being displayed at any given time by the game's 3D engine 
 is still impressive. The draw-in distance could be better, and fog conveniently makes it tougher 
 to notice buildings popping into view, but you can always see a large portion of the world around 
 you and any robots or tanks that happen to be nearby. While you can't actually destroy entire buildings, 
 you can at least blacken them with your weapons. You can also smash surrounding fixtures like streetlights 
 and dumpsters, and leave cracks in the pavement by jumping.  

           Like Grand Theft Auto, the game lets you explore its 3D world and attempt missions at 
 your own pace.      

  The audio mainly consists of a decent assortment of weapon and explosive noises, along with some 
 hilarious radio chatter comments from nearby police and military vehicles. Robots that attack you 
 will occasionally voice a taunt as well, and their laser blasts sometimes make the "ch-ch-choo" 
 sound that the lasers made in the 1980s cartoon series. Story scenes put together with in-game 
 graphics and recorded voice dialogue frequently appear, but what's really impressive is just how 
 much recorded dialogue the developers managed to cram into a DS cartridge. Every story scene has 
 at least a few lines of conversational dialogue, and each version of the game probably has around 
 30 unique story scenes. Activision wisely enlisted Peter Cullen and Frank Welker to lend their 
 voices to "Optimus Prime" and "Megatron," respectively, just as they did in the cartoons. Steve 
 Blum and Keith David do a great job voicing the generic bot and "Barricade" respectively. Transformers: 
 Autobots and Transformers: Decepticons set a new standard for both the amount of and the quality 
 of voice acting in a DS game.  

  For the most part, both versions of the game provide the same experience. Each version has five 
 robot skins that the other doesn't, but the underlying transformations are identical in both games. 
 You'll attempt a couple more stealth and escort related missions in the Autobots version, while 
 the Decepticons version has a few more rampage missions. However, the bulk of missions in both 
 games are structured similarly. The only upside that one version has over the other is that it's 
 easier to gain experience and build strength in the Decepticons' game, because they gain experience 
 from destroying property and police vehicles. The goodie-goodie Autobots are supposed to protect 
 humanity, so they only earn experience by trashing Decepticons and completing missions.  

  Whichever side you play, you will have to develop a certain tolerance for the targeting cursor 
 and camera position. The targeting cursor will sometimes lose hold during the heat of battle, and 
 the camera will often do a 180 if you take damage, which leads to numerous missed shots and plenty 
 of time spent holding the shoulder button to move the camera back where you want it. Most of your 
 deaths and mission failures won't be caused by your own lack of skill, but because the cursor and 
 camera make it tough to keep track of your enemies. Thankfully, your character's health grows with 
 every level upgrade, so deaths caused by the camera, and just deaths in general, happen less frequently 
 the longer you play.  

           Unicron would find the dull mission designs and short length highly dubious.      

 
  In addition to the main story mode, the game also offers a multiplayer battle mode and a unique, 
 online score-attack mode. The multiplayer battle mode is nothing special. Four people pick their 
 bots and duke it out in deathmatch or keep-away matches. The score-attack mode, on the other hand, 
 is actually rather interesting. Each day, you log into a server and download a new challenge mission. 
 These missions are timed and typically involve destroying property or catching air off of jump 
 ramps. For the rest of the day, you play the mission as often as you like and build up a score. 
 Then, at the end of the day, you log back in and your score will be uploaded. The interesting aspect 
 is that people playing the Autobots version of the game are all on one side, while everyone that 
 bought the Decepticons version is on the other. The scores on both sides are added together and 
 the side with the highest score is declared the winner for that day. At the end of the week, the 
 team with the most daily wins gains possession of the "Allspark." Based on how significant your 
 contribution is, you'll receive in-game tokens each day that eventually unlock the vehicle skins 
 that aren't present in the main story mode.  

  As you can see, the differences between the two versions of the game are mostly cosmetic. Some 
 people will enjoy the Decepticons version more because you gain experience faster and don't have 
 to complete as many stealth missions, although that's really a matter of personal taste. In either 
 case, the games look nice, the voice acting is marvelous, and transforming into vehicles and beating 
 up on other robots is fun. It's just too bad Activision chose to publish two individual versions 
 instead of a single game. The dodgy camera and targeting may be annoying, but all the filler missions 
 and the overall short length of the story suck a lot of the joy out of being a Transformer.    
  
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (20 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: Sk8more67
Rating: 6.5
Date: Jul 29, 2008 5:02 pm PT
Review:  When you start this game, you'll be unsure of how to punch, kick, or shoot for that matter. Don't worry. Just 
 do what Barricade says and you'll be fine. This game is pretty cool after you beat it because you 
 get to use  course) your character in free play. Free 
 play is pretty damn awesome mainly because it gives you a chance to explore your level and get 
 used to it before moving on to your next challenge. There is no time limit either in free play. Another 
 nice feature is the leveling up system in this game. The more havoc and destruction you cause, the 
 more experience points you get. After leveling up, your character gets stronger and unlocks new moves. Once 
 reaching to a certain level (I believe it's level 5, though I'm not sure) , you unlock the ability 
 to climb on walls. That's really important because, how else will you get 500,000 feet off the ground 
 without helcopters or airplanes? Ah, yes I almost forgot! When you see vehicles in free play, you can 
 scan them by touching a crosshair on the right hand side of the touch screen. This then locks onto 
 vehicles of all sorts, such as police helicopters, race cars, trucks, etc. After scanning them you can 
 press pause and go to vehicle form. Here you can change your vehicle (vehicle form is only accessible 
 in free play) and then use it anytime. Just touch the Decepticon logo on the touch screen to change. You 
 can always switch vehicles as long as your in free play. The missions are pretty cool in this game, and 
 so are the challenges. Even though the challenges aren't really very challenging. The graphics in 
 this game are pretty cool, and so are the vehicles that you can unlock in the last levels (there 
 are only four in all) . This game is also really cool because your envirement is interactible. You 
 can pick up cars, street lights, helicopters (if they fly low enough to you) , etc. Select Tranquility. You'll 
 notice that you can't go over the bridge, but as long as you have a flying vehicle, you can fly over 
 the ocean! You'll find yourself on the other side of the city. Later, you'll come back to the level 
 with the bridge unlocked so you can cross it and go over to the other side without having a flying 
 vehicle.
  
  -Sk8more67 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SSBFan12
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jun 26, 2008 8:57 pm PT
Review:  The Decipticons are back from where ever they came from and they are after the All Spark before 
 the Autobots get it. In the game you are a new transformer that came with the main Decepticons 
 and is helping them get the All Spark. In the game you can do random missions or the main story 
 missions or you can explore the four places that you are allowed to go to when you unlock the place. 
 You can scan cars and transformers to unlock the car, Van, or Jet to be and you can switch to them. 
 The good part of the game is that the story mode is fun. Also the other good part is that you can 
 go to places that are in real life and also you can all the cars but can only be most of them. The 
 bad is that when you shoot or stomp on buildings they don't fall down. The other bad part is that 
 the story mode is really short. The last bad part is when you explore the places it gets really 
 boring pretty fast.
  So I rated this game 7.5 outta 10. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: skreetpreacha
Rating: 8
Date: Jun 7, 2008 2:31 pm PT
Review:  The Good: Lots of voicework. Nice 3D graphics and destructible environments. Decent story and missions. 
 Interesting online options. 
  
  The Bad: Kind of short. Gameplay not very deep. Though environments look technically good, they 
 still look bland and mostly lifeless. A few levels are brutally hard for a kids game. 
  
  The Review: Could it really be true? A GTA sandbox syle gameplay with fully 3D destructible city 
 environments starring Transformers on the DS??!! 
  
  Yep, it's true! And those qualities alone make this quite a unique game. Like GTA, the missions 
 here are nonlinear and many of them are optional. There are 30 story missions in all, each feature 
 nice cutscenes and actual voice overs. Another rarity for a DS game. The game is fun overall. You 
 star as a custom Decepticon and you can unlock up to 37 vehicle types to transform into, mostly 
 just cars and trucks, but also helicopters and jets too. Your combat consists of melee attacks, 
 rapid fire blasters, and stronger missile types. Beside the 30 story missions, there's lots of 
 side missions available too, which are also pretty fun. The downside to the big 3D environment 
 is that there isn't a plethora of detail or activity, compared to a console GTA game per se. And 
 the combat can get pretty old, pretty quickly. The driving mechanics are also not too sharp and 
 feel very genericly outdated. The nice part of the graphics is that most things in the environments 
 are destruble. Very similiar to the Hulk games, your Transformer can pick up and throw objects, 
 or use them as bats, and you even leave huge dents in the road every time you land from a jump. 
 Also like the Hulk and Spiderman games, you can scale walls too. So while these are all generic 
 versions of their console counterparts, these things keep my 7 year old son more than happy and 
 excited to keep playing this game. So overall, it's a very innovative and unique DS game, but may 
 be a bit shallow for hardcore gamers expecting something more. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: EgyptRaider
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 2, 2008 12:30 am PT
Review:  This is my first review on Gamespot.
  
  Looks- 10
  
  The fully 3D world is awesome. espacially for the DS. Also the transformers and vehicles look really 
 good.
  
  Time-spending - 9.5
  
  Also you can play this game a very long time. When you are done with the stroy mode. (wich i completed 
 i 2 days) you have ca. 50 other missions were you can gain medals. You can also just destroy the 
 city and have a large battle with the police and army. the only downside of this battle is that 
 on the highest threat level the battle suddenly stoppes. but still just destroy some cars and they 
 will come again. With these 2 im stil busy but then you also have the mulitplayer mode. 
  
  Mulitplayer - unrated.
  
  this is just some games with your friend. But then you have the all-spark 
 war for WiFi. I don't have WiFi so i haven't done it. Every day you can download a mission via 
 WiFi and do this mission a couple of times. When you upload it your version (autobots or decepticons) 
 gain points. After a day the winner is annouced. after a week wins the faction with the most days 
 won.
  
  Gameplay - 10
  
  The gameplay is awesome. the no-stop ability to transform and destroy almost everything it just 
 works. also the touchscreen isn't the main control.
  You just use the normal key-pads. But then the touchscreen just gives 3 extra buttons: transforming, 
 Scanning and the world-map. Also you read people saying that the camera is very annouing. But i 
 didn't have problems with the camera. so its really personall if it works or not. Also you can 
 level up and unlock thing like: climbing up walls, regen, and artillery on your car. But ther leveling 
 stops quick because its goes up to lvl 20. So on this point you mayby want autobots because with 
 them you have longer fun with leveling.
  
  This was my first review for Gamespot. And i advice this game to everyone. 
  Its really cool 
 and worth the price. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tikotuck
Rating: 4
Date: Dec 31, 2007 7:32 pm PT
Review:  Sure there is a free play mode, but if you can call it free play. Basically all you do is walk 
 around, try to find an autobot and blow up cars (which may sound cool but the graphics are so bad, 
 it sucks all the fun out of everything, especially when he camera freaks and you can not see anything 
 but poorly animated hills.) And the missions are the same thing over an over again except you get 
 to be different transformers. All you do is blow up a car or a tank and take down a autobot ( once 
 again, this may sound fun, but your gun bullets look like confetti and the explosion looks like 
 spagetii sauce ) And you may be excited about the idea of wi-fi, but the only wi-fi there is a 
 voice telling you what your mission is then you go off wi-fi to do the idiotic mission of throwing 
 a car or a lightpost! 
  My friend told me this game was awesome because he really likes transformers. If the game was with 
 different characters he would probably not like it at all! And one more little thing that makes 
 the game suck, You can beat it in a day or so! 
  
  I wonder how so much dissapointment could be packed in this little game! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: crashbreaker16
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 9, 2007 11:27 pm PT
Review:  There has been quite a bit of mixed opinions about this game going around, and i have to say, i 
 was very impressed. After the movie came out, (which BTW was sooooo awesome...) they released a 
 Transformers game for pretty much every platform, and i have played the game for PSP and XBOX360 
 as well, and i must say, with all the potential that these games had, i was amazingly disappointed 
 with their performance. Not only was there the oppertunity to have some amazing graphics, there 
 was also the benefit of having both the Autobots and the Decepticons in one game; however! Sadly, 
 the missions were stupidly done, the combat was slow and repetitive and the controls were confusing. 
 They wasted this good oppertunity. Shame on you Microsoft and Sony. But kudos to Nintendo for their 
 fantastic job on the DS.
  
  The Decepticons story is much like it is in the movie, just different at the end, twisted so that 
 the story revolves around Starscream betraying Megatron. All the robots are designed to look like 
 they did in the new movie, so if you are used to the old transformers, they have changed. On that 
 topic, the graphics of this game are outstanding for the DS. Although the fog blocking off the 
 distance is sort of annoying, the level of free roaming that this game allows is amazing. if you 
 can see it, you can go there. The controls are simple and effective, with the learning curve just 
 right. The buttons are used more that the touch screen and the combat and movement are excellent. 
 You start off with only basic movements, but as you defeat Autobots and cause destruction, you 
 gain experience points, and these unlock new moves, combos or abilities for your various forms.
 
  
  The other great thing about this game is the variety of alternate forms are. As well as your standard 
 robot form, you can get about 37 different vehicle forms, like a hippie van, a roadster, an ice 
 cream truck or a swat van. But the awesome thing about the other forms are that they aren't just 
 cars. you can also transform (once you have scanned them) into four different types of helicopters, 
 and a jet. Every alternate form, as well as looking different, has different stats and benfits. 
 Some might have more energy, while others will be faster for instance. In order to transform into 
 something you must have scanned it first. You canb change your vehicle form when you are in freeplay, 
 but it is locked when you are in a mission.
  
  The only bad thing about this game is the stupid camera. This only becomes a real problem when 
 you have tha climbing skill, and when you try to climb, if you don't have the camera parallel to 
 the wall, you won't climb it. Mind you, this is pretty easy to get over.
  
  This game is one of the best i have seen on DS. if you like transformers and you have a DS, well... 
 join the dots. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: maguilonski
Rating: 8
Date: Jul 30, 2007 4:50 pm PT
Review:  What can I say of Transformers : Decepticons DS .. Lets put this like a Gamespot Review:
  
  The Good: Great voice acting , awesome graphics , cool Wi Fi Allsparkwars , good gameplay and awesome 
 transformacions.
  
  The Bad: Its to short , a lot of glitches (like on one mission , Baricade was invisible that ticked 
 me off) , some of the transformations are called different but they are exactly the same and did 
 I tell you that this game is to short.
  
  Overall (this part aint like a gamespot review) : The game is awesome but when you finish it youll 
 wont be playing much of the free roaming and more of the allsparkwars (if you have the wi fi , 
 if not youre F$$$$D) . Still, I say you shouled buy it. I give Transformers: Decepticons DS an 8.0 
 (Great) .
  This was a Maguilonski review for all you gamers out there. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: HahnsHaven
Rating: 8.1
Date: Jul 22, 2007 3:48 pm PT
Review:  I really liked Transformers when I first started playing it, but it gets sort've boring after you 
 beat the game and play it for awhile. The ability to customize what you look like in vehicle form 
 and having a wide variety of vehicle's to choose from after you scan every single one of them is 
 ok. The fighting system is simple having a laser and your fists to deal out damage to your enemy's, 
 but also gets boring after playing for a while. The graphics are ok, knowing that they're coming 
 from the DS. But the place where I think the game hits the home run is the sound. It comes out 
 clearly and there's a lot of good voice acting, but having a game where the only thing it is great 
 at producing is sound will not drive the game that far. The multi-player is also ok, being able 
 to get wi-fi points to unlock new vehicle forms and cheats. All and all Transformers is a good 
 game, for awhile. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BarryBurtonman
Rating: 9
Date: Jul 20, 2007 9:44 pm PT
Review:  I love the transformers, and I love this dang game. You can scan all sorts of vehicles and become 
 any form you want! Sure the story is short and missions are challenging, but that is what's good 
 about it! plus the multi player is............ How do i put it?........... Oh Yeah............... 
 Kick A$$!!!!!! The blasters, the missiles, the vehicles. Everything about this game is good. And 
 it is a classic add on to the DS library. I reccomend it. And I know my brother does too. If you 
 loved the movie, loved the old show, or just love robots, you will not be disappointed. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Goostoff4eva
Rating: 8.4
Date: Jul 18, 2007 12:45 pm PT
Review:  I pre-bought this game before I got my DS because of the craze for it and instead played it on 
 my brother's DS. When I first turned it on and started my file, I saw the opening intro movie, 
 and it was OUTSTANDING in the graphics and soundclips. But there's more to this game than the intro 
 movie.
  
  The Graphics
  Plain and simply, the graphics are phenominal. The robots are very detailed and life-like. The 
 buildings are great, but a little blurry. The landscaping, a bit blocky, but stil good. And the 
 special efects are fantastic to boot. The overall graphics of the game are superb.
  
  The Gameplay
  A bit of a dissapointment. The moves are very simple (kick, punch, weapons) but 
 yet supprisingly affective. You can destroy vehicles, which sometimes turn out to be autobots, 
 and in doing so, you raise your Threat Level (simliar to GTA) , sending the police, military, and 
 eventually the FBI after you in an attempt to succumb your reign of terror. So shoot 'em up with 
 your energy gun, except, you cant get a lock and keep it! The lock-on system jumps for baddy to 
 baddy, and has no way of staying locked on if they move without you strafing, which potentially 
 puts you off a cliff or in a tight spot of Feds when you are paying attention. However, this is 
 made up for with the transformations. There is no experience more exhilerating (IMO) than driving 
 down the street in a SWAT Van at high speeds, then transforming into a 30 foot robotic warrior 
 to slay some enemies, or flying through the air disguised as a helicopter, only to transform in 
 mid-air to drop down on enemies, leaving huge cracks in the street. With nearly 40 different cars, 
 helicopters and jets to choose form, each with it's own transformation, it's bound to be fun. Unfortunatly, 
 this game is also very short, seeing as I nearly beat the game in a two hour sitting.
  
  The Sound
  Quite simply the best I've heard on and Nintendo Hand-held system. The voicing is 
 beyond words. It's like living and fighting right alongside one of the Decepticons. The sound effects 
 are classical and great. Overall, it's amazing.
  
  If you ask me, I'd say that it's worth it for all the different robots and cars. This game is very 
 good, but I think it's more of a cosmetic game compared to one meant to be enjoyed, but it's still 
 fun.
  
  SO yeah, I'd say that 
::::::

::::::
UserName: carolynmichelle
Rating: 7
Date: Jul 18, 2007 12:56 am PT
Review:  Transformers: Decepticons is one of two games developed for the DS by Vicarious Visions to tie 
 in with Michael Bay's movie about the famous robots in disguise. Unlike many games based on films, 
 it's clear that a good deal of thought and work went into making this game, and fans of the Transformers 
 may find that their time with the game is well-spent. Still, the game is pretty rough around the 
 edges and quite short, keeping what could have been a great game from being wholly recommendable.
 
  
  Transformers: Decepticons tells the same basic story as the film, although it cuts out the human 
 element entirely, focuses on the Decepticons, and has the bad guys win in the end. Essentially, 
 the Autobots and Decepticons are racing to find a powerful object called the Allspark. You'll spend 
 most of the game playing as a unique Transformer you name at the game's outset. Your versatile 
 Transformer can take on the form of just about any vehicle you encounter, and earns experience 
 points as you play through the game and defeat Autobots, unlocking the occasional new ability (such 
 as the ability to climb walls) , as well as new weapons and new attacks. The game starts off with 
 a few basic tutorial missions in what is supposed to be a Las Vegas Strip-like area, although the 
 complete lack of neon signs and flashing lights means it doesn't actually bear any resemblance 
 to such a place. Before long, though, you're whisked off to the large town of Tranquility, where 
 most of the game takes place. You'll also visit the Qatar and Hoover Dam before all is said and 
 done. The areas aren't especially detailed, but it's nonetheless impressive to have such sizable 
 free-roaming environments on the DS.
  
  You can spend time wandering around the city, destroying the occasional anonymous Autobot you encounter, 
 as well as increasing your threat level and battling human law enforcement vehicles. There are 
 also several challenge missions scattered around which task you with doing things like racing to 
 collect orbs or doing as much damage to the city as possible within a time limit, but unless you're 
 going for 100% completion there isn't a good deal of incentive to do these missions. You'll most 
 likely spend most of your time tearing through the game's story missions instead.
  
  The story missions have a pretty decent variety to them, sometimes having you blast lots of Autobots, 
 sometimes having you race around town to collect or scan various things while blasting the Autobots 
 who get in your way. Unfortunately the potential fun of all this Autobot-blasting is hampered somewhat 
 by a really lousy targeting system. The camera doesn't stay trained on your target if the target 
 moves around you, so you'll spend a good deal of many firefights wrestling with the camera, just 
 trying to get your opponent back in your sights so you can shoot at him. At least you're not limited 
 to shooting at your enemies. You can also get up close and use melee attacks, as well as grab handy 
 objects like trees, light posts, or cars to throw at them or smash them with. In addition to these 
 missions, there are a few boss battles throughout the game, and in these missions, and a few others, 
 you get to play as a recognizable Decepticon such as Starscream, Barricade, Brawl, Blackout, or 
 Megatron.
  
  Most of the game's missions aren't particularly tough, but a few of them are still made quite frustrating 
 by the fact that failure at any point requires having to repeat the whole thing. Some missions 
 have several stages to them, and having to do the first few stages over again just to get back 
 to the part that's giving you trouble can be tedious. It's also worth noting that on a few occasions 
 we encountered a technical issue that resulted in us being frozen in mid-air, forcing us to restart 
 the current mission. It didn't happen often enough to seriously affect our experience with the 
 game, though.
  
  Despite its flaws, and the fact that the game will only take in the vicinity of around six hours 
 to finish, Transformers fans may want to give it a look. It's got plenty of solid voice acting, 
 featuring Keith David as Barricade and Frank Welker, the original voice of Megatron from the cartoon, 
 reprising the role here. On the whole, the story here isn't quite as satisfying as that of the 
 Autobots game, but it's kind of neat the way the game reworks the film's story to focus on the 
 Decepticons and to give your Transformer a pivotal role in the action. And although all that action 
 is quite simplistic, and despite the issues with the game's targeting system, the variety of vehicles 
 you can transform into and the occasional upgrade to your weapons and abilities keeps the gameplay 
 reasonably enjoyable, for a while.
  
  The game also includes a mode called Battle for the Allspark, in which players with either the 
 Autobots or Decepticons version of the game can log on and download that day's mission. Like the 
 game's challenge missions, this usually involves doing something like wreaking havoc on the town 
 or catching as much air off of ramps as possible. At the end of the day the total scores from each 
 side are tallied up and one side is declared the victor, while players on both sides are awarded 
 tokens based on their performance which can be used to unlock exclusive vehicle forms. All in all, 
 it's not much to write home about.
  
  Transformers: Decepticons for the DS doesn't have enough going for it to make it worthy of a purchase, 
 and the unwieldy targeting system may put off players who would otherwise enjoy some giant robot 
 action. Still, it's an ambitious game that's far from a total failure. Dedicated Transformers fans 
 may be able to look past the game's flaws and enjoy it regardless, though even they should be able 
 to see all that this game has to offer with a rental. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SpecterX3
Rating: 7.7
Date: Jul 7, 2007 12:36 am PT
Review:  Another childhood favorite turned movie turned game. In the past these titles have spelt doom, 
 even more so with Transformers where the stakes are even higher. Surprisingly though you will be 
 in for a great surprise with Transformers DS, and there truly is more than meets the eye.
  
  Let's talk about the presentation. This is one of the best looking games on the DS. These are 
 some of the best 3D visuals on the DS, and Transformers is a free-roaming game to boot. Though 
 it does have a pop-up problem and some of the environments are a bit to bland and blocky, the robots 
 remain the centerpiece and look absolutely great. If that wasn't enough the game even manages to 
 fit in lines upon lines of excellent voice acting. How they got all this on a tiny cartridge is 
 beyond me, but it definitely makes the game that much better.
  
  The gameplay it self is simple yet effective. The robots can use simple melee combos, transform 
 into vehicles, and fire weapons through out these free-roaming environments giving it a GTA like 
 feel. I do not use the term simple lightly though, the motions do get repetitive after playing 
 for more than an hour. You will start off the game with your own character who you will name. As 
 you play the game and complete missions you will level up and gain new abilities as well as growing 
 stronger. You will be able to scan vehicles and choose which one you wish to be on the fly, including 
 a G1 character unique to each version. That is not to say you won't be able to play as the transformers 
 themselves though. Robots from the movie range all the way from Barricade to Megatron himself, 
 all of which have their own unique vehicles you will not be able to find in the game. You will 
 not be able to choose which you will use for each mission, but they control well and suite the 
 missions they go on. Which brings us to the missions themselves. Each is different and tries to 
 through new elements at you to mix things up. In the end though most missions boil down to finding 
 something, destroying something, or beating a boss. All the missions are enjoyable while they last, 
 but you probably won't find yourself replaying them after you have finished the main story. The 
 overall single player is short and will last you anywhere from five to seven hours depending on 
 your skill level. They try to remedy this with side missions and hidden vehicles, and although 
 it does help it is not enough to stretch out it's life. In the end you will probably come back 
 to just rampage a city rather than play the actual missions.
  
  Extra play time does come from the Wifi however and is one of the games greatest strength. It makes 
 up from the lackluster death match mode the wireless multiplayer provides and truly tries something 
 new and ambitious. The All-Spark War, as it is called in the game, is a constant online war between 
 the Autobots and Decepticons. Depending on which version of the game you buy, you will be enlisted 
 in the online ranks and battle each day for one of the seven pieces of the All-Spark. You accomplish 
 this by downloading a mission each day and playing it as many times as you want to increase your 
 point contribution. At the end of the day you are awarded tokens for good performance and depending 
 on whether or not your team won. Winning all seven pieces results in a huge pay out of tokens. 
 Every 250 or so tokens you collect will unlock a new vehicle or cheat in the game for you to use. 
 On top of this there is also an online leader board both in game and online for you to see how 
 you compare to other Transformers players. In short, wifi is what you will be doing after you have 
 beaten the game.
  
  All in all, Transformers is a fun yet short game. With the great presentation and story along with 
 a refreshing wifi mode, it more than makes up for the $30 price tag. Whether you want to rampage 
 through the city with giant robots or if the movie just wasn't enough, it's hard not to recommend 
 Transformers. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: zcds
Rating: 6.5
Date: Aug 24, 2007 7:24 am PT
Review:  The idea of huge robots free roaming in a city on the ds sounds like a good idea but a few things 
 hold this back from greatness. For one the cammra and targeting is troublesome. It seems the targeting 
 has add sence it will fly off and target something else. The cammra trys to be good and stay behind 
 the back but when the action heats up or your stuck behind something it's not much help. You have 
 3 methods of attack. Gun, throw/down pummel, and attack. Enamey AI is either dumb or to frustrating. 
 it seems the developers want you to stay in veical mode since random Autobots come out of no were 
 and start beating on you or the cops come after you. it's such a shame buildngs cant be destroyed 
 and the missions are as uninspierd as it gets. Every mission your destroying something weather 
 it be cars, satilights or even trees. It's to bad death match is only local and wifi is only for 
 more uninsiperd missions. It's fun destroying the city and fighting the autobots . It's just nothing 
 new. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Ernice
Rating: 7.3
Date: Jul 4, 2007 2:07 am PT
Review:  Transformers: Decepticons is the kind of game where at first glance and playthrough, it appeals 
 to you and seems extremely fun. however, as you invest more time into it, you see its numerous 
 flaws and it just makes the game a real pain to play.
  
  lets start with the plus points. the voice acting is wonderful. for each and every character, the 
 voice is done very well and blends in with the game perfectly. even tone and emotions can be heard 
 through the voice itself which is what voice acting is all about.
  
  another plus point is the ability given to scan most of the vehicles found througout the game and 
 transform into them at will. helicopters, cars, vans, you see it, you can transform into it. a 
 nice little touch.
  transformation is also very easy to perform in the game, with just a simple tap of the stylus or 
 your thumb, and you're ready to go.
  
  however, thats about where all the good points end.
  
  the most noticable flaw in the game 
 is it's camera and weapon aiming system. although it gives you controi over the camera, they only 
 allow you to rotate it left and right. with that being said, although for most games that would 
 work, but with the size of the transformer, you can imagine how much it blocks the view of the 
 screen, and without the option of moving the camera near / far and up / down, moving around in 
 the city can be frustrating.
  
  the aiming system is also a total failure. regardless of which transformer you are using, everyone's 
 aiming is bad. real bad. you find yourself missing most of the time even at the closest of range 
 esp against the bosses. and when you are staring at two targets, you dont get to choose whcih to 
 shoot so even when you intend to aim at the enemy with the higher threat, you may have to adjust 
 yourself so that that enemy is almost the only one on screen.
  
  as for the free roaming, dont be fooled. its a really small city and theres nothing much to drive 
 around and do. you dont see people, only cars, and even the buildings dont have much life in them.
 
  
  some of the missions available are also very boring and out of place. and sometimes exceedingly 
 hard. only those who have the strongest of patience can finish them without a curse or swear coming 
 out from your lips.
  
  my last word on Transformers: Decepticons is this, its fun for awhile, but dont expect to be loving 
 it for long. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MarshStomp
Rating: 8.2
Date: Jul 2, 2007 12:14 pm PT
Review:  yep its a good game but quite hard! it usely takes me about 1 day to finish a ds game because uselly 
 its not that hard but this one took me 5days!!! thats how long it takes me to finish a ps2 game 
 lol! but yeah the graphics dont matter because you know its a ds and most games like that are hard 
 to sharpen and make realistic. But yeah its a game i recomend buying! so if you save enough money 
 up get Transformers: Decepticons. I will probally go buy Autobots and see if its good as this!
 
  
  Signed by the one and only,
  Marshstomp 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Neo-ganon
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jun 28, 2007 12:30 pm PT
Review:  When i picked up this game, i knew this was a good game judging by the box art. i couldnt have 
 been more right! this has got to be by far the best ds game that i have ever played so far! it 
 has a great story, fun missions (drone extermination and roadblock are 2 of my favorites) and an 
 awesome custom character mode. the only problems that i had was the fact the weapons your transformer 
 has arent completely customizable (i would have love to drive around as the raider car with that 
 blue beam energy weapon) , the fact that the controls kind of take a bit of getting used to (it 
 would be easier to use the styluse to aim your blaster rather than rely on an auto-targeting system 
 (like metroid prime hunters) ) and some of the lack of realism (the police/army give up attacking 
 you after a while and the fact that there are very few cars on the street and no human civilians 
 that are running away from you) . The lack of realism is what made my score a 9.5 instead of a 10. 
 this game would be more fun if there were little human civilians, running away from you in mass 
 panic as you blow up their cars, or when you are fighting the police, they will retreat eventually 
 (in a real situation they would not do this (they would only run away from you if they felt they 
 were in danger but would regroup and come after you later) ) . another thing that brought this score 
 down was the lack of online deathmatch. even though deathmatch is available, it is only limited 
 to people within range who hav ds's with this game. the allspark wars are pretty cool however. 
 anyway, this was an excellent game with good characters, fun missions, a cool customization mode, 
 and excellent action, but the lack of realism and no online deathmatch mode (which was promised) 
 brought this score down. therefore, transformers decepticons recieves a 9.5 out of 10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MarkedByAshes
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jun 26, 2007 7:25 pm PT
Review:  What can I say other than Wow, I was SO wrong ! I was so burned by the PSP version (feel free to 
 reference my PSP review if needed) that I figured there was no way this title could be any good 
 at all. All of the screen shots have been horrendous and not helping the fact that it IS a movie 
 tie-in. But once you get over the fact that the graphics look like fuzzy micro machines in a cardboard 
 cut-out world, you're going to have as much fun in that world as you did watching the original 
 cartoon.
  
  This is what the PSP game SHOULD have been. If you combined the PSP graphics with the DS game, 
 it would have been the ULTIMATE movie tie-in. The control scheme works, the characters move along 
 at a good pace, and there is even more character animation when they transform than the PSP version. 
 I'm no fanboy of either system since I own both, but considering the lack of decent titles on the 
 DS in comparison to the PSP, I'm really excited to see the DS outshine the PSP for once. Now if 
 only we could get a FEW things cleaned up. The control scheme is as simple as can be (directional 
 button for movement, L and R to rotate camera, jump, fire weapon, punch/kick) with minimal touch 
 screen support (scanner, map, and transformation) make it easy for anyone to pick up and start 
 playing, but there was one control that was missing... WHY CAN'T I LOOK UP AND DOWN ON MY OWN??? 
 The semi-automatic targeting can make it difficult to lock on to exactly what you're looking for 
 if you're trying to scan a new vehicle at your feet or that enemy that's flying above. I can get 
 past the fact that the game has terrible graphics since there are large, free-roam maps to explore, 
 GTA-style missions to accomplish, and the animations are more fluid than the PSP version by far. 
 Add in downloadable content like unlockable characters from Best Buy and Target download stations 
 and WiFi missions to participate in the global Allspark War , this game has tons of replay value 
 without even mentioning the multiplayer mode. But now that I do mention it, they could have benefited 
 from an 8 player support instead of only 4 player. As far as the difference between Autobots and 
 Decepticons, there's not much except the story. With the time I've put into each version, they 
 both start with the same general tutorial and available vehicles to scan and transform into. And 
 it looks as if both versions have the exact same list of vehicles UNLESS I just haven't scanned 
 the right ones yet. (There were some in the Autobot version I scanned that were not added to my 
 inventory... they may be usable in the Decepticon version and I just haven't tried yet.) As I mentioned, 
 the story line is where the changes are made. The Autobots version will naturally follow the path 
 of the movie's story line where as the Decepticons will have an alternate story. So for those looking 
 to enjoy the game without too many movie spoilers, grab up the Decepticon edition first. But I 
 do reccomend BOTH versions equally. And you really should get them both for the sake of enjoying 
 all aspects of the game experience. With the ease of gameplay and variety of single-player, multi-player, 
 and downloadable mission content, this should appeal to most DS owners, not just Transformers fans. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sirx
Rating: 7.7
Date: Jun 24, 2007 6:37 pm PT
Review:  I don't know what it is, but I seem to be drawn to any game on the DS that has 3D graphics. I know 
 the PSP does it all the time, but as bad as most 3D DS games look, I can't shake the feeling of 
 how cool it is to have these kinds of games on the go!
  
  But anyway, Transformers: Decepticons is a pretty good game. I was suprised by the inclusion and 
 quality of the voice acting from the start. Most DS games have boring text, but this game actually 
 went to the trouble to get the actors from the film! I mainly chose the Decepiticon version because 
 I really like the look of Blackout, but I think you'll have just as much fun with the Autobot version, 
 I may even buy that one after I beat this one and sell it :) The gameplay is OK, but there are 
 some problems. The vehicles handle about what you would expect. Good, but not great. The transformers 
 control well and the combat is enjoyable. The biggest downside to the gampley is definetly the 
 lock-on system.
  
  The lock-on in this game is automatic and it's not all that great. You have to be very close in 
 order for the Lock-on to be triggered and moving too much makes you switch targets or lose a lock 
 all together. You do get used to this and it doesn't stop the game from being fun, but it would 
 have helped to have a manual lock-on like in Zelda (I just don't know which button they would have 
 used) .
  
  So far the game has been a little challenging, but if you take the time to level up then you shouldn't 
 have too much of a problem with the game. Be warned though: if you don't level up right away, you 
 miss out on special moves like a more powerful blaster, the ability to shoot while in vehicle form, 
 and more combos.
  
  I haven't finished the game yet so I can't tell how long it is, but I have played the AllSpark 
 challenges and they are pretty cool. Every day there's a simple timed event you need to do like 
 throwing trees as far as you can or doing a race. This should really help boost the replay value 
 and get people to level up as much as they can. I don't know how long these challenges will stay 
 fun, but it's nice that they're there.
  
  I do love having a GTA style game on my DS, but don't think that there is nearly enough to do in 
 the open ended levels. There are a few (as in one or two) side missions at any given time, but 
 I haven't played any great ones yet.
  
  So there you have it. I'm enjoying this game and I think any Transformers fan will as well (unless 
 you hate Michael Bay) . As for everybody else, I think you'll find this game worthwhile if you can 
 forgive some of its faults and are looking for a solid portable action game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: especensor
Rating: 8.4
Date: Jun 22, 2007 10:58 am PT
Review:  Transformers makes its way onto the DS. Its an ambitious game with tons of features. Quite easily, 
 this is one of the best 3rd Party games so far. Anyways, the Free Roaming is awesome. Its got a 
 decent sized world to navigate. Especially since its on the DS platform. You are equiped with tons 
 of abilities that are just really cool that you don't usually get in yoru standard GTA, like climbing 
 buildings. Scanning cars you see to add to your turn into stuff list is surprisingly fun and just 
 adds to the coolness of this game. You can also customize the colour so you've got quite a lot 
 of variety.
  
  Graphics - What can i say, its pretty good. Its got a whole free roaming 3d world. It's graphic 
 style is similar to Metroid Prime Hunters but is slightly worse in my opinion. Its got nice explosions 
 and overall makes the game look nice to play.
  
  Gameplay - This game has to have some of the best gameplay. While it generally doesn't use the 
 touchscreen, just the stuff you can do is pretty awesome. You can interact with a lot of stuff. 
 Picking up lamposts and swatting cars away, enemy autobots (or decepticons if you're playing the 
 autobots version) . You can pick up cars and chuck them. Shoot stuff, climb walls. The interactivity 
 with your environment is just really awesome. Love it. The fighting is quite fun and while it won't 
 WOW you, it'll still provide an entertaining experience.
  
  Sound - Not a lot to say, good sound effects etc. Decent and not bad at all. One really cool thing 
 though is that the game is fully voice acted. Not revolutionary but pretty incredible for a DS 
 game.
  
  Well, this review has gone on quite long so i'll just wrap things up quickly. This game is awesome 
 and shouldn't disappoint. If you're a transformers fan, this game will appeal even more. Its a 
 nice action game with plenty to do. Its got neat interactivity that sets it apart from other similar 
 games (primarily on other platforms) . Its awesome and i say get it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Gigatron
Rating: 9.1
Date: Jun 21, 2007 9:01 am PT
Review:  So we're all getiing VERY excited about the upcoming movie. You may have noticed that the DS and 
 PSP versions are the first to hit store shelves. Realizing this, I eagerly grabbed a copy. I've 
 always thought being the bad guys was a bit more fun, so I picked Decepticons.
  
  Booting up the game, you'll find out that it's a 3D GTA-style action game, complete with free-roaming. 
 There's no better hands to place this game in that Vicarious Visions, who is one of the more experienced 
 developers for the DS (Tony Hawk, Spider-Man) . You'll name your own Decepticon, and engage in a 
 plot that ties into the movie. You'll still play as characters like Starscream and Barricade, but 
 only during certain missions. Unlike other transformers, you'll be able to scan other vehicles 
 (think Metroid Prime) and have access to their forms. So in single-player, you play as your own 
 transformer, and you gain EXP to level up and gain new abilities.
  
  As far as the core game goes, it's superb. You can run, jump, shoot, climb, punch, kick, and transform. 
 The melee combat and shooting is simple, as it should be. However, at any given moment you can 
 transform, so this adds an element of excitement to the game. The vehicle controls handle nicely, 
 and each of the 30 or so vehicles have different stats. From cars, to jets and helicopters, transforming 
 is always fun, and really separates it from other games. The story is told through cutscenes and 
 voice acting (which is probably the best I've heard on DS) . So to sum it up, you can run around 
 like the Hulk, scaling buildings, thrashing enemies, and picking up objects to utilize, but it 
 throws in transforming and shooting as well. Simply put, it's AWESOME. My only complaint is the 
 aiming, which can sometimes be a pain.
  
  The graphics TECHNICALLY are very impressive. The sense of scale it throws at you is great, and 
 a clean framerate to boot. The textures and animation won't wow you as much as Metroid: Hunters, 
 but damnit they get the job well done! The sound has some generic rock in it, but is lifted by 
 great voice acting and decent effects. So the presentation is great overall.
  
  The DS version features cooperative AND competitive multiplayer, but co-op is only available if 
 your friend has the same version as you. It's really cool, and its up to 4 players... local only. 
 The blue WI-FI mark is decieving when it comes to actual multiplayer, but the online mode it DOES 
 give you is awesome. Basically every day you can download a new challenge. You upload your high 
 score, and depending which faction you're with, you'll contribute points for The battle for the 
 all-spark. Basically whoever's leading can take control of the game's website, and I'm not sure 
 about the details but there are prizes involved. I just think it's cool to get a good score, and 
 to see your name on the leaderboard. The multiplayer and All-Spark mode give this game lasting 
 value, but it would have been AMAZING if it had online multiplayer.
  
  Overall you should definitely pick this up if you're a fan of the Transformers or just an action 
 game fan. It's a really fun GTA-style game that's sure to entertain. Other than characters, story, 
 and some levels, the Autobots version is the same. So the decision of what version to get solely 
 lies on your preference. But I was REALLY impressed with what they did with the DS technology, 
 and I think you'll be too. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
