-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Transformers: Autobots
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/ds/action/transformersmovie/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 It's a &quot;giant robots&quot; rendition of Grand Theft Auto.
 collecting new transformations for your own bot is sweet.
 voice acting is generally top-notch, and there's loads of it.
 solid 3D visuals.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 Missions are repetitive and derivative.
 the brainless camera and targeting cursor cause too many deaths.
 it's a short game even if you consider optional challenges.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Jul  3, 2007
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 6.5
Critic Score: 6.7, 31 Review (s)
User Score: 7.3, 328 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Activision
Genre: Sci-Fi Action Adventure
Date: Jun 19, 2007
ESRB: Everyone 10+

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Smashing other robots and transforming into different vehicles is generally fun, but the game is 
 short and the missions are often uninspiring. 

  Transformers: Autobots and Transformers: Decepticons are two sides of the same coin. Both games 
 tell the same general story, they both share the same environments, and they both let you run amok 
 as a robot that can transform into various vehicles. The main thing distinguishing the two versions 
 is that you fight as a heroic Autobot in one and an evil Decepticon in the other. Regardless of 
 which version you choose to bring home, you'll probably get a kick out of beating up opposing robots 
 and exploring the huge 3D environments incognito as a car, helicopter, or some other Earthly conveyance. 
 The bad news is that the uninspiring story missions and brief overall length pretty much guarantee 
 you'll be done with the game for good in six hours or less.  

           You mainly control a generic bot that answers to Prime or Starscream.      

  When 
 you first start the game, you'll watch a short video clip narrated by either Optimus Prime or Starscream 
 (depending on the version) that explains how Megatron, the Decepticon leader, came to Earth 100 
 years ago searching for something called the "Allspark," and how both the Autobots and Decepticons 
 have come to Earth to reclaim the mysterious artifact. Key events from the recent movie are depicted, 
 but the human point of view is notably absent. On the Autobots' side, you take orders from Optimus 
 Prime and go out on missions that involve gathering information, escorting human vehicles, or stopping 
 Decepticon raids. On the Decepticons' side, you'll answer to Starscream and your missions will 
 mainly involve causing public destruction and stealing from fortified military bases. Both games 
 share three locations in common and have one exclusive location. In the Autobots version, you'll 
 shadow the military's recovery of Megatron from the Arctic. In the Decepticons version, you'll 
 take part in the Decepticon assault in Qatar. Also, each version has its own, unique ending.  

 
  A good way to describe the game is that it's Grand Theft Auto with giant robots instead of mobsters. 
 As the story unfolds, you'll find yourself in large 3D environments complete with streets, buildings, 
 traffic lights, and innocent car traffic. You can go anywhere you like on foot or in vehicle form, 
 and you're free to climb up buildings, smash light poles, and throw cars around. In your vehicle 
 form, nobody will take notice of you. However, if you roam around on foot or cause enough damage, 
 robots from the other side as well as military vehicles will take notice of you and attack with 
 lasers and armor-piercing bullets. You can fight back with your robotic fists or dish out the pain 
 from a distance with your own lasers and missiles. Reducing rival robots to rubble is satisfying, 
 but the combat is also very shallow. You have a few melee and weapon attacks, you can move out 
 of the way of oncoming fire, and you can jump -- that's it. There aren't any power-up items to speak 
 of either, apart from the health-recovery orbs that exploding objects and robots occasionally leave 
 behind. CPU-controlled enemies also do a lousy job of avoiding your attacks, although they generally 
 have twice as much armor as you do. When you get bored of fighting, you can transform into your 
 vehicle form and hide until the alert level goes back to normal.  

  Scattered throughout each environment are a number of spots that you can visit in order to attempt 
 various challenge and story-related missions. Challenge missions involve simple tasks such as destroying 
 cars or racing from one place to another. You can replay challenge missions as often as you like. 
 By contrast, story missions are doled out in a set order and involve multi-step tasks that occasionally 
 let you control familiar Transformers. In the Autobots version, you'll have opportunities to take 
 Bumblebee, Optimus Prime, Ironhide, Jazz, and Ratchet for a spin. In the Decepticons edition, you'll 
 have brief stints with Barricade, Brawl, Blackout, Starscream, and Megatron. For the majority of 
 missions, though, you'll control your generic create-a-bot. Being a create-a-bot has its perks. 
 First, while the namesake bots have preordained rankings for strength and firepower, your generic 
 bot's rankings continually grow as you gain experience from completing missions. Secondly, your 
 custom bot isn't limited to a single transformation like the others are. You start out with a "beater" 
 body, but you can gain new transformations by scanning the vehicles you come across on your travels. 
 Your create-a-bot can transform into as many as 37 different cars, trucks, helicopters, and airplanes. 
 Some skins even resemble popular characters from the Generation One cartoon and toy line.  

  The game's biggest problem is that the majority of mission designs lack creativity and fail to 
 include familiar Transformers characters. Out of 30 story missions, roughly one-third bring transformations 
 into play or involve a dramatic battle against a key foe. The rest simply involve traveling from 
 one place to another or destroying a certain number of objects before time runs out, while the 
 majority of enemies are military vehicles and generic no-name robots. Doing the same boring missions 
 all the time gets old rather quickly. The thrill of exploring the world as a Transformer also wears 
 off eventually. At some point after an hour or two, you'll find yourself going through the motions 
 only because you want to see how the story ends. As it is, the story mode barely takes four hours 
 to finish.  

  All of the robots look nice up close, and their face and body details are generally well-defined. 
 Transformations happen in a few quick steps and are totally sweet. The streets and buildings in 
 the surrounding environment look simple by comparison and occasionally suffer from blocky or missing 
 textures, but the sheer number of objects being displayed at any given time by the game's 3D engine 
 is still impressive. The draw-in distance could be better, and fog conveniently makes it tougher 
 to notice buildings popping into view, but you can always see a large portion of the world around 
 you and any robots or tanks that happen to be nearby. While you can't actually destroy entire buildings, 
 you can at least blacken them with your weapons. You can also smash surrounding fixtures like streetlights 
 and dumpsters, and leave cracks in the pavement by jumping.  

           Like Grand Theft Auto, the game lets you explore its 3D world and attempt missions at 
 your own pace.      

  The audio mainly consists of a decent assortment of weapon and explosive noises, along with some 
 hilarious radio chatter comments from nearby police and military vehicles. Robots that attack you 
 will occasionally voice a taunt as well, and their laser blasts sometimes make the "ch-ch-choo" 
 sound that the lasers made in the 1980s cartoon series. Story scenes put together with in-game 
 graphics and recorded voice dialogue frequently appear, but what's really impressive is just how 
 much recorded dialogue the developers managed to cram into a DS cartridge. Every story scene has 
 at least a few lines of conversational dialogue, and each version of the game probably has around 
 30 unique story scenes. Activision wisely enlisted Peter Cullen and Frank Welker to lend their 
 voices to "Optimus Prime" and "Megatron," respectively, just as they did in the cartoons. Steve 
 Blum and Keith David do a great job voicing the generic bot and "Barricade" respectively. Transformers: 
 Autobots and Transformers: Decepticons set a new standard for both the amount of and the quality 
 of voice acting in a DS game.  

  For the most part, both versions of the game provide the same experience. Each version has five 
 robot skins that the other doesn't, but the underlying transformations are identical in both games. 
 You'll attempt a couple more stealth and escort related missions in the Autobots version, while 
 the Decepticons version has a few more rampage missions. However, the bulk of missions in both 
 games are structured similarly. The only upside that one version has over the other is that it's 
 easier to gain experience and build strength in the Decepticons' game, because they gain experience 
 from destroying property and police vehicles. The goodie-goodie Autobots are supposed to protect 
 humanity, so they only earn experience by trashing Decepticons and completing missions.  

  Whichever side you play, you will have to develop a certain tolerance for the targeting cursor 
 and camera position. The targeting cursor will sometimes lose hold during the heat of battle, and 
 the camera will often do a 180 if you take damage, which leads to numerous missed shots and plenty 
 of time spent holding the shoulder button to move the camera back where you want it. Most of your 
 deaths and mission failures won't be caused by your own lack of skill, but because the cursor and 
 camera make it tough to keep track of your enemies. Thankfully, your character's health grows with 
 every level upgrade, so deaths caused by the camera, and just deaths in general, happen less frequently 
 the longer you play.  

           Unicron would find the dull mission designs and short length highly dubious.      

 
  In addition to the main story mode, the game also offers a multiplayer battle mode and a unique, 
 online score-attack mode. The multiplayer battle mode is nothing special. Four people pick their 
 bots and duke it out in deathmatch or keep-away matches. The score-attack mode, on the other hand, 
 is actually rather interesting. Each day, you log into a server and download a new challenge mission. 
 These missions are timed and typically involve destroying property or catching air off of jump 
 ramps. For the rest of the day, you play the mission as often as you like and build up a score. 
 Then, at the end of the day, you log back in and your score will be uploaded. The interesting aspect 
 is that people playing the Autobots version of the game are all on one side, while everyone that 
 bought the Decepticons version is on the other. The scores on both sides are added together and 
 the side with the highest score is declared the winner for that day. At the end of the week, the 
 team with the most daily wins gains possession of the "Allspark." Based on how significant your 
 contribution is, you'll receive in-game tokens each day that eventually unlock the vehicle skins 
 that aren't present in the main story mode.  

  As you can see, the differences between the two versions of the game are mostly cosmetic. Some 
 people will enjoy the Decepticons version more because you gain experience faster and don't have 
 to complete as many stealth missions, although that's really a matter of personal taste. In either 
 case, the games look nice, the voice acting is marvelous, and transforming into vehicles and beating 
 up on other robots is fun. It's just too bad Activision chose to publish two individual versions 
 instead of a single game. The dodgy camera and targeting may be annoying, but all the filler missions 
 and the overall short length of the story suck a lot of the joy out of being a Transformer.    
  
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (23 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: SSBFan12
Rating: 7
Date: Jan 11, 2009 9:53 am PT
Review:  In this game you are a Autobot and you first can't transform into anything. But after the first 
 mission then you can. The game is open world so you can travel anywhere in the game. The game has 
 really good graphics for a DS game. When you are doing the story you have to destroy tanks and 
 cars that will attack you. If you do the side quests then it would be just a time mission. The 
 game has a small story and a small place to explore. The game is really fun and espicially the 
 voice acting is amazing. In the game you can't scan and turn it everything like a jet or a police 
 car. The multiplayer in the game is really fun to play against friends. If you have more people 
 then it is really awesome. To play as more characters in the game you have to beat the story mode 
 and then you can play as Bumblebee, Jazz, Etc. (Just autobots though if you want to play as Deceptagons 
 then you got to play Deceptagons version game.)
  
  
  The good of the game is that there are plenty of vechicles to turn into. The voice acting is really 
 amazing. There are alot of side quests to play and do. Exploring everything is fun.
  
  The bad of the game is that the story missions are not so well. The story and map is really small. 
 You can't scan and transform into every vechicle.
  
  Overall this game is really fun to play if you saw any transformers. I rate this game 7.0 outta 
 10. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: xlrtron
Rating: 7
Date: Aug 21, 2008 9:59 pm PT
Review:  Transformers autobots for the ds is good, challenging, and wholesome experience that you can put 
 in a mere pocket. This game has a pretty lengthy storyline that offers many twist and turns to 
 keep you on your toes. The good of the game is that you can move Optimas prime, bumblebee, Ironhide, 
 Jazz, ratchet (who is unplayable in console version) and your own customizable bot. Another good 
 thing is that it has voice over and lots of it, Optimas and Megatron have their original voices. 
 The story mode starts out with you a rookie arriving on an unknown planet known as earth taking 
 a message from ironhide. After a short mission to show how you control your robot. You fight a 
 few decepticons you take them out and you're deployed to the town of tranquility. You can expect 
 anything from this point. As the story unfolds you will have taken out decepticons been nearly 
 killed by the authorities and the entire military. You also get to go to the Artic and fight Starscream 
 as Ironhide. In the end you fight Megatron as Optimus and your precious custom bot is dead thanks 
 to Megatron, but he still damaged Megatron. just a little. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: vaccumeddog2
Rating: 5
Date: Jul 10, 2008 9:24 am PT
Review:  The games for the ds are a half-half. One side is good one side is bad and I'm not talking about 
 the robots either. first, the good. The game can be fun at times. some of the combat is entertains 
 and it's just fun to be a giant robot throwing cars around. Now, the bad. One sentence. It could've 
 been better. There's the graphics. it's no xbox360 version but come on activision! poor some soul 
 into this game! it glitches allot especially in the one player mode. The graphics for the scenery 
 and the game environment in which you explore are well boring and not very tasteful Even if it 
 is in a city. (For some of the missions) . The targeting system is messed up a little. Firstly, 
 you have to shoot then lock on. Then you have two types of weapons. Heavy and normal. aside from 
 the bad graphics and the clunky controls with a not so great targeting system. The game offers 
 a modes to play other then the one-player story mode. Which has stupid and good missions. Some 
 are so difficult though sometimes you wonder why your playing. The multi-player mode is just a 
 battle between your friends. It doesn't matter which version you have but you need 2. no ds download 
 play. Anyway all you do is pick an arena and battle it out either side of the transformers 4 player. 
 again, same bad controls and such apply for multi player. However turning into a robot with the 
 touch of a button is cool. especially when turning into Megatron's jet. So basically how patient 
 you are counts. There is also an online but i did not include it because ive never played it. so 
 a Hit and Miss? you decide me? wouldn't buy it. Sayonaara. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Jamez634
Rating: 6.5
Date: Jul 7, 2008 4:51 pm PT
Review:  I'm sure everyone who owns a DS would want Grand Theft Auto on it, though we know it's never going 
 to happen since they're not on any Nintendo consoles. Well, Transformers DS is close enough so 
 let me get started with the review.
  
  There are two versions of this game: Transformers Autobots and Transformers Decepticons. I have 
 to say that the only thing different about them is the characters and the missions. Say, in Autobots 
 you were Optimus Prime beating Brawl. Well, in Decepticons, you'd be Brawl beating Optimus. Whatever 
 you choose will be no different.
  
  The story is nothing like the movie. The story is just boring missions getting repetitive and before 
 you know it you have finished the game. You wish that Sam from the movie was in it, but he's not. 
 The Transformers do everything their self, so that's a downer. Though I like the cutscenes. The 
 cutscenes has voice overs that seems like your watching something on T. V. I have to give it credit 
 for that.
  
  Besides doing missions, you can do free play which is just going around the city in a car, a plane 
 or a chopper just shooting people and killing them. The people actually never get out of their 
 cars or are walking on the street so you got to get fun out of blowing up cars. Soon the police 
 will come but you can kill them easily.
  The strange thing is that no matter what game you have, whether it be Autobots or Decepticons, 
 you can still do free play and kill humans. It feels strange that the Autobots would do such a 
 thing.
  
  Overall, Transformers DS isn't a MUST GET game and for those of you who want a Grand Theft Auto 
 on the DS, keep on waiting.
  
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  Check out my blog for other reviews on other great (and not so great!) DS games! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cannonball1
Rating: 9.5
Date: Apr 12, 2008 11:39 pm PT
Review:  well,
  if i could rate the movie it would be 10.0 for me because i loved. it was one of my favrioutes.
 
  
  the game was short but yes very fun also.
  
  there minigames (optional)
  you keep doing them and try to get a highscore.
  
  unlock characters on the way along with 
 having your own robot (you can scan new veichles along the way)
  theres 1 u get by starting the game (your robot)
  1 you have without starting (bumblebee or barricade)
 
  4 you get along through the game (featuring optimus prime for good and megatron for the bad)
  your can repeat missions wich is always a bonus.
  once you finished the game u unlock a viechle 
 .
  
  you can be anyone in free play once you beat the game but if you havent you can only use your robot 
 wich is a downfall.
  
  the wifi is fun and when you collect wifi tokens you can get veichles.
  
  the vechiles you 
 can get is cars, jets and helicpoters.
  
  i enjoyed he game. thanks for reading. 8) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: PrincessYoshi
Rating: 7.5
Date: Mar 16, 2008 1:09 pm PT
Review:  Just to clear this up, it is not me that has the game it is my brother. He doesn't let me play 
 it much so it is kind of sneak-a-go-write-the-review. I have seen better games, but the voice acting 
 sets a new standard. I think the graphics are brilliant, but the original Mario 64 on 64 had better 
 graphics (More 3-D) . The storyline was great but my Bro' got stuck for many weeks on Happy Landings. 
 It would be cool if you could buy upgrades, even Ben 10 has that. The health bar is not very long, 
 and it does not help that In bosses, you tend to die very, very, very fast ( or at least I do!) I 
 think it is hard (We are armatures you may say) It is awesome fun flying around, jumping off buildings, 
 smashing Deceptions and genrally making mischief. It is also fun driving around (wish I had a horn!) 
 and smashing cars and running over Deceptions (Also fun) . Of the 15 or so hours (I sneak it a lot, 
 must have a lot of time to write a review! (That is a heck of a lot of time to me!) ) The stats are 
 good, Music could be way better, but we only paid $20.00 for it mega sale at Target, so that was 
 value. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mircea_calarasu
Rating: 7
Date: Dec 28, 2007 8:37 am PT
Review:  With a huge summer blockbuster on the way you, know that a game will be on it's tail to cash in 
 on it's success. Most of the time the game fails to live up to the hype it attempted to establish 
 beforehand and ultimately falls flat on it face. But that's not the case with Transformers: Autobots 
 which is Various Visions take on the Transformers movie, but on the DS. What makes this game unlike 
 any other Transformers game out there is the Create-a-Bot. The game starts out with an Autobot 
 than you named coming to Earth to help the other Autobots find the AllSpark. You run through a 
 quick tutorial, brought to you by Ironhide, that leads you into picking a car you want to transform 
 into. That's what sets this game apart from all the other Transformers games out there. The cars 
 that drive around the often small open-ended areas can be yours to transform into. With a quick 
 tap of the "scan" option on the bottom screen you can scan a car and it is stored into your Autobot's 
 memory. At any time, as long as it's not taking place during a mission, you can change what car/chopper 
 you want to transform into. These range from stealth choppers to hippie vans. They will also change 
 the look of your Autobot.
  
  For instance, if you want to use a car as your transformation you'll be small and your color will 
 be dictated by what color the car is, or if you choose a chopper then you'll be big and bulky and 
 your color will change with the color of the chopper. This is a really neat idea that works well. 
 But the problem with it is all the car models are the same, save for maybe the occasional truck, 
 but they just offer different colors. Each vehicle does a little to keep them all from feeling 
 the same with each car having it's own personal stats.
  
  Transformers: Autobots is an open-ended game such as GTA. There are side missions around the map 
 that you can go to whenever you feel the need to do one and needless to say there are story mission 
 markers as well. Story missions range from the "fetch quest" to the "get here before time runs 
 out" styIe. None of them are particularly hard. The only real difficulty comes from when your not 
 on a high enough level to beat the mission, leaving you lying dead on the ground more than once. 
 But you'll eventually level up to a decent level retrying the mission multiple times and killing 
 enemies over and over. Graphically this game looks amazing.... for a DS game. It looks like a high 
 end PS1 or N64 game at best with textures being washed out and character models looking extremely 
 pixelated when looked at up close. But this is a DS game and it is pushed to it's limits. If you 
 add the full voice acting for all the game then you've got yourself one unique DS game. The game 
 does have it's share of problems, most of these come from is length. It's a short game clocking 
 in at almost 6 hours. You can even beat the game in one sitting if you really wanted to. But that 
 doesn't detract from the whole game. Length is just one aspect and the other things is does it 
 does well and thus leaves you shocked and amazed at how well the game turned out and just what 
 the DS is capable of doing.
  
  I do recommend a purchase and if you can't commit yourself to that then give it a rental. This 
 is a showpiece of what the DS is capable of and has set my expectations higher for 3D games on 
 the DS now that I know that CAN be done and be done WELL. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: JediBmoney
Rating: 7.5
Date: Dec 6, 2007 9:27 pm PT
Review:  Ok let me just state that this is one of the best Movie-Tie in's there is.
  any transformers fan will LOVE this game.
  
  Story.
  the story is what some of us would call 
 a one sider since it is called "transformers: Autobots" it is basicly gonna be the Autobots side 
 of the 2007 transformers movie with a lot of added fillers which were pretty intresting and awesome.
 
  
  Graphics.
  the graphics in this game are a little towned down in vehicle mode but in robot mode the graphics 
 almost sparkle and everything that was on the car/plane/helocopter is pretty much their.
  
  Gameplay.
  Well the controls for this are very very simple. if any of you have played Mech Assult: Phantom 
 war you would recognize most of the controls.
  
  Sound.
  The voice acting in the game was pretty damn amazing like the original cast of the movie did the 
 voices. the music was sub par, like if you got one wanted level bar it would play like this grunge 
 rock crap.
  
  Multiplayer.
  the multiplayer is probably one of the best things about this game. weither your playing agents 
 a Decepticon or co op with someone this game with a freind just seems alot more fun
  
  B-Moneys Official thoughts: this game made me an even bigger transformers fan then i was back in 
 the day. back in the day i remember watching Beast Wars, Beast Machines, Robots in discise, Armada, Energon 
 and Cybertron and this game alone made me one of the biggest transfomers fan ever, my car is a 
 Green Gunner type and i go by Jedibmoney on the Wi-Fi. walking around as optimus prime, Jazz, Bumblebee, ironhide 
 is SOOOOO FUN. so if you are a transformers fan of ANY type GET THIS GAME
  
  Fav transformers of all time
  Scourge [RiD]
  Optimus Prime [all]
  Megatron [all except BM And 
 Cybertron]
  tons more.
  
  IM 80% DONE WITH THIS GAME :D
  
  Goodies: this game has alot of goodies. you can unlock stuff from playing Allspark wars on wi-fi 
 and that makes the game a whole lot better or you could goto target and unlock a jet [which i still 
 hafta do] ,
  
  in xplay ranks:4 out of 5 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sam250
Rating: 8
Date: Aug 21, 2007 1:57 am PT
Review:  The game of transformers autobot is realy good and is recommended for tranformers fan and for persons 
 who enjoyed the film but.... the gameplay is not realy what i wanted, example: we don t see sam 
 witwiky. And when you walk with your autobot in the roads you only see cars but no humans that 
 walk ONLY CARS. You can play some levels with bumblebee ironhide jazz ratchet and optimus but some 
 levels with your e own custom autobot and you can scan the vehicule you want and trasnform into 
 it. When you finish the game you can play with your favorite character in the mission you want. But 
 if youre a fan or if you enjoyed only the flm like me : buy ths game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Curley5959
Rating: 9.5
Date: Aug 20, 2007 2:17 am PT
Review:  Good Game. Exciting transformations. SWhen you first start the game, you'll watch a short video 
 clip narrated by either Optimus Prime or Starscream (depending on the version) that explains how 
 Megatron, the Decepticon leader, came to Earth 100 years ago searching for something called the 
 Allspark, and how both the Autobots and Decepticons have come to Earth to reclaim the mysterious 
 artifact. Key events from the recent movie are depicted, but the human point of view is notably 
 absent. On the Autobots' side, you take orders from Optimus Prime and go out on missions that involve 
 gathering information, escorting human vehicles, or stopping Decepticon raids. On the Decepticons' 
 side, you'll answer to Starscream and your missions will mainly involve causing public destruction 
 and stealing from fortified military bases. Both games share three locations in common and have 
 one exclusive location. In the Autobots version, you'll shadow the military's recovery of Megatron 
 from the Arctic. In the Decepticons version, you'll take part in the Decepticon assault in Qatar. 
 Also, each version has its own, unique ending.
  
  A good way to describe the game is that it's Grand Theft Auto with giant robots instead of mobsters. 
 As the story unfolds, you'll find yourself in large 3D environments complete with streets, buildings, 
 traffic lights, and innocent car traffic. You can go anywhere you like on foot or in vehicle form, 
 and you're free to climb up buildings, smash light poles, and throw cars around. In your vehicle 
 form, nobody will take notice of you. However, if you roam around on foot or cause enough damage, 
 robots from the other side as well as military vehicles will take notice of you and attack with 
 lasers and armor-piercing bullets. You can fight back with your robotic fists or dish out the pain 
 from a distance with your own lasers and missiles. Reducing rival robots to rubble is satisfying, 
 but the combat is also very shallow. You have a few melee and weapon attacks, you can move out 
 of the way of oncoming fire, and you can jump -- that's it. There aren't any power-up items to speak 
 of either, apart from the health-recovery orbs that exploding objects and robots occasionally leave 
 behind. CPU-controlled enemies also do a lousy job of avoiding your attacks, although they generally 
 have twice as much armor as you do. When you get bored of fighting, you can transform into your 
 vehicle form and hide until the alert level goes back to normal.
  
  Scattered throughout each environment are a number of spots that you can visit in order to attempt 
 various challenge and story-related missions. Challenge missions involve simple tasks such as destroying 
 cars or racing from one place to another. You can replay challenge missions as often as you like. 
 By contrast, story missions are doled out in a set order and involve multi-step tasks that occasionally 
 let you control familiar Transformers. In the Autobots version, you'll have opportunities to take 
 Bumblebee, Optimus Prime, Ironhide, Jazz, and Ratchet for a spin. In the Decepticons edition, you'll 
 have brief stints with Barricade, Brawl, Blackout, Starscream, and Megatron. For the majority of 
 missions, though, you'll control your generic create-a-bot. Being a create-a-bot has its perks. 
 First, while the namesake bots have preordained rankings for strength and firepower, your generic 
 bot's rankings continually grow as you gain experience from completing missions. Secondly, your 
 custom bot isn't limited to a single transformation like the others are. You start out with a beater 
 body, but you can gain new transformations by scanning the vehicles you come across on your travels. 
 Your create-a-bot can transform into as many as 37 different cars, trucks, helicopters, and airplanes. 
 Some skins even resemble popular characters from the Generation One cartoon and toy line.
  
  The game's biggest problem is that the majority of mission designs lack creativity and fail 
 to include familiar Transformers characters. Out of 30 story missions, roughly one-third bring 
 transformations into play or involve a dramatic battle against a key foe. The rest simply involve 
 traveling from one place to another or destroying a certain number of objects before time runs 
 out, while the majority of enemies are military vehicles and generic no-name robots. Doing the 
 same boring missions all the time gets old rather quickly. The thrill of exploring the world as 
 a Transformer also wears off eventually. At some point after an hour or two, you'll find yourself 
 going through the motions only because you want to see how the story ends. As it is, the story 
 mode barely takes four hours to finish.
  
  All of the robots look nice up close, and their face and body details are generally well-defined. 
 Transformations happen in a few quick steps and are totally sweet. The streets and buildings in 
 the surrounding environment look simple by comparison and occasionally suffer from blocky or missing 
 textures, but the sheer number of objects being displayed at any given time by the game's 3D engine 
 is still impressive. The draw-in distance could be better, and fog conveniently makes it tougher 
 to notice buildings popping into view, but you can always see a large portion of the world around 
 you and any robots or tanks that happen to be nearby. While you can't actually destroy entire buildings, 
 you can at least blacken them with your weapons. You can also smash surrounding fixtures like streetlights 
 and dumpsters, and leave cracks in the pavement by jumping. uperb!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BobMarelyLOL
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jul 24, 2007 9:42 am PT
Review:  Transformers : Autobots is a RPG game, you choose a transformer and build it up using upgrades 
 and **** With brilliant Graphics you can see things extreamly clear, the text is amazing descriptive. 
 Once you have upgraded your transformer, you take it on the battlefield and perform missions and 
 **** The strange controls are very inituitive, with a soundtrack to boost. Cheapest I have seen 
 for Autobots is &pound;20, and it really does get you great value for moneys. Multi-player is brilliant, 
 you battle another person with the game or Transformer's Deceptions (yes you can put Optimus Prime 
 VS Lord Megatron) for a battle royale.
  
  Overall I rate this a 9.0 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nghtcrwlr821
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jul 8, 2007 11:29 pm PT
Review:  With a huge summer blockbuster on the way you, know that a game will be on it's tail to cash in 
 on it's success. Most of the time the game fails to live up to the hype it attempted to establish 
 beforehand and ultimately falls flat on it face. But that's not the case with Transformers: Autobots 
 which is Various Visions take on the Transformers movie, but on the DS. What makes this game unlike 
 any other Transformers game out there is the Create-a-Bot. The game starts out with an Autobot 
 than you named coming to Earth to help the other Autobots find the AllSpark. You run through a 
 quick tutorial, brought to you by Ironhide, that leads you into picking a car you want to transform 
 into. That's what sets this game apart from all the other Transformers games out there. The cars 
 that drive around the often small open-ended areas can be yours to transform into. With a quick 
 tap of the scan option on the bottom screen you can scan a car and it is stored into your Autobot's 
 memory. At any time, as long as it's not taking place during a mission, you can change what car/chopper 
 you want to transform into. These range from stealth choppers to hippie vans. They will also change 
 the look of your Autobot.
  
  For instance, if you want to use a car as your transformation you'll be small and your color will 
 be dictated by what color the car is, or if you choose a chopper then you'll be big and bulky and 
 your color will change with the color of the chopper. This is a really neat idea that works well. 
 But the problem with it is all the car models are the same, save for maybe the occasional truck, 
 but they just offer different colors. Each vehicle does a little to keep them all from feeling 
 the same with each car having it's own personal stats.
  
  Transformers: Autobots is an open-ended game such as GTA. There are side missions around the map 
 that you can go to whenever you feel the need to do one and needless to say there are story mission 
 markers as well. Story missions range from the fetch quest to the get here before time runs out 
 styIe. None of them are particularly hard. The only real difficulty comes from when your not on 
 a high enough level to beat the mission, leaving you lying dead on the ground more than once. But 
 you'll eventually level up to a decent level retrying the mission multiple times and killing enemies 
 over and over. Graphically this game looks amazing.... for a DS game. It looks like a high end PS1 
 or N64 game at best with textures being washed out and character models looking extremely pixelated 
 when looked at up close. But this is a DS game and it is pushed to it's limits. If you add the 
 full voice acting for all the game then you've got yourself one unique DS game. The game does have 
 it's share of problems, most of these come from is length. It's a short game clocking in at almost 
 6 hours. You can even beat the game in one sitting if you really wanted to. But that doesn't detract 
 from the whole game. Length is just one aspect and the other things is does it does well and thus 
 leaves you shocked and amazed at how well the game turned out and just what the DS is capable of 
 doing.
  
  I do recommend a purchase and if you can't commit yourself to that then give it a rental. This 
 is a showpiece of what the DS is capable of and has set my expectations higher for 3D games on 
 the DS now that I know that CAN be done and be done WELL. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Maximaltroop
Rating: 8.3
Date: Jul 8, 2007 2:55 pm PT
Review:  This Game Is Great in some ways and not so good in others. The Good thing i like about this game 
 is the create a character function is fun. Create and choose your name and car. the story developed 
 well, like in the movie but also was different. It changes the autobots position, like not meeting 
 Sam Witwicky in th game. This Game Has Pretty good graphics considering the platform, but what 
 the game lacks in graphics it makes up for it in th use of the touch screen to scan and transform. 
 The Downside is the game length. Some might argue that this game is longer if you do the challenges 
 and collect every car but the overall length of the game is pretty short. This Game Has A free-roam 
 environment and a do the mission whenever you want . In this Game You Have a threat meter like 
 the stars in Grand Theft Auto. The Cops will Come After you and try to destroy you. When you are 
 free roaming you will run in to some decepticon drones. You also on each stage get paired with 
 a fellow autobot ( ironhide, jazz, bumblebee, optimus prime and ratchet) and play as them in certain 
 levels. This Game has a Wi-Fi feature meaning you can download challenges from www. transformersgame. com. 
 My overall opinion of this game is great but could of been longer. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: carolynmichelle
Rating: 7
Date: Jul 8, 2007 12:50 am PT
Review:  Transformers: Autobots is one of two games developed for the DS by Vicarious Visions to tie in 
 with Michael Bay's movie about the famous robots in disguise. Unlike many games based on films, 
 it's clear that a good deal of thought and work went into making this game, and fans of the Transformers 
 may find that their time with the game is well-spent. Still, the game is pretty rough around the 
 edges and quite short, keeping what could have been a great game from being wholly recommendable.
 
  
  Transformers: Autobots tells the same basic story as the film, although it cuts out the human element 
 entirely. This is probably a good thing, as it means you actually get more development of characters 
 like Optimus Prime and Bumblebee in the game than you do in the movie. Essentially, the Autobots 
 have come to Earth, desperate to locate an object called the Allspark before the evil Decepticons 
 can use it to conquer the planet. You'll spend most of the game playing as a unique Transformer 
 you name at the game's outset. Your versatile Transformer can take on the form of just about any 
 vehicle you encounter, and earns experience points as you play through the game and defeat Decepticons, 
 unlocking the occasional new ability (such as the ability to climb walls) , as well as new weapons 
 and new attacks. The game starts off with a few basic tutorial missions in what is supposed to 
 be a Las Vegas Strip-like area, although the complete lack of neon signs and flashing lights means 
 it doesn't actually bear any resemblance to such a place. Before long, though, you're whisked off 
 to the large town of Tranquility, where most of the game takes place. You'll also visit the Arctic 
 and Hoover Dam before all is said and done. The areas aren't especially detailed, but it's nonetheless 
 impressive to have such sizable free-roaming environments on the DS.
  
  You can spend time wandering around the city, destroying the occasional anonymous Decepticon you 
 encounter, as well as increasing your threat level and battling human law enforcement vehicles, 
 although you don't earn any experience points for defeating humans. There are also several challenge 
 missions scattered around which task you with doing things like racing to collect orbs or doing 
 as much damage to the city as possible within a time limit, but unless you're going for 100% completion 
 there isn't a good deal of incentive to do these missions. You'll most likely spend most of your 
 time tearing through the game's story missions instead.
  
  The story missions have a pretty decent variety to them, sometimes having you blast lots of baddies, 
 sometimes having you escort other characters who are then attacked by baddies you then have to 
 blast, sometimes having you race around town to collect or scan various things while blasting the 
 baddies who get in your way. Unfortunately the potential fun of all this baddie-blasting is hampered 
 somewhat by a really lousy targeting system. The camera doesn't stay trained on your target if 
 the target moves around you, so you'll spend a good deal of many firefights wrestling with the 
 camera, just trying to get your opponent back in your sights so you can shoot at him. At least 
 you're not limited to shooting at your enemies. You can also get up close and use melee attacks, 
 as well as grab handy objects like trees, light posts, or cars to throw at them or smash them with. 
 In addition to these missions, there are a few boss battles throughout the game, and in these missions, 
 and a few others, you get to play as a recognizable Autobot such as Bumblebee, Jazz, Ratchet, Ironhide, 
 or Optimus Prime.
  
  Most of the game's missions aren't particularly tough, but a few of them are still made quite frustrating 
 by the fact that failure at any point requires having to repeat the whole thing. Some missions 
 have several stages to them, and having to do the first few stages over again just to get back 
 to the part that's giving you trouble can be tedious. It's also worth noting that one particular 
 boss battle seemed plagued by problems. On a few occasions, the boss simply ran off into the distance, 
 forcing us to restart the mission, while at other times we got a message saying that we had left 
 the combat area, automatically failing the mission as a result, despite the fact that we were standing 
 right next to the boss. We were eventually able to win the fight, but these issues should have 
 been dealt with before the game's release.
  
  Despite these flaws, and the fact that the game will only take in the vicinity of around six hours 
 to finish, Transformers fans may want to give it a look. It's got plenty of great voice acting, 
 featuring Peter Cullen's distinctive voice as Optimus Prime. The script lifts some lines directly 
 from the movie, but also has numerous clever touches of its own, particularly with regard to the 
 audio clips Bumblebee uses to communicate. It's also kind of neat the way the game reworks the 
 film's story a bit to give your Transformer a pivotal role in the action. And although all the 
 action is quite simplistic, and despite the issues with the game's targeting system, the variety 
 of vehicles you can transform into and the occasional upgrade to your weapons and abilities keeps 
 the gameplay reasonably satisfying and enjoyable, for a while.
  
  The game also includes a mode called Battle for the Allspark, in which players with either the 
 Autobots or Decepticons version of the game can log on and download that day's mission. Like the 
 game's challenge missions, this usually involves doing something like wreaking havoc on the town 
 or catching as much air off of ramps as possible. At the end of the day the total scores from each 
 side are tallied up and one side is declared the victor, while players on both sides are awarded 
 tokens based on their performance which can be used to unlock exclusive vehicle forms. All in all, 
 it's not much to write home about.
  
  Transformers: Autobots for the DS doesn't have enough going for it to make it worthy of a purchase, 
 and the unwieldy targeting system may put off players who would otherwise enjoy some giant robot 
 action. Still, it's an ambitious game that's far from a total failure. The game's story isn't bad 
 (as far as stories about giant robots go) and it's made even better by some really terrific voice 
 acting, so dedicated fans of Optimus Prime and his fellow Autobots may be able to look past the 
 game's flaws and enjoy it regardless, though even they should be able to see all that this game 
 has to offer with a rental. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: raystorm156
Rating: 9.6
Date: Jul 2, 2007 12:57 pm PT
Review:  very nice game full of tons of transformer characters, great graphics, awsome voiceover work, and 
 great gameplay mechanics Characters: tons of transformer characters some playable some to fight 
 against. Graphics: breathtaking unlike anything you've ever seen on your ds.
  Sound: voiceover work is amazingly crisp and clear even though it dosen't sound like the characters.
 
  Gameplay: easy to learn and great blend of driving and action.
  Overall: even though it has mediocre online challenges this is a greatbuy no matter who you are, 
 what kind of games you like, or if you are a transformer fan or not. which is why I give it a 9.5 
 out of 10. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GAM3BOY
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jul 1, 2007 11:19 pm PT
Review:  i really enjoyed this game, and once you beat it, you always have the online mode, however little 
 it is
  
  gameplay: the game has pretty good controls, and the gameplay is really great. lots of action and 
 free roaming. the only little things are that you can sometimes get annoyed with it sometimes being 
 very easy then impossibly hard, and to target enemies can be a little tedious too, but not that 
 bad.
  
  graphics: really, the size of the game makes up for the graphics. the transformers are detailed, 
 but really look like pixelated robots. the enviornments are a bit bland, too.
  
  sound: the music is good and the effects sounds great, but best of all, full voice when they talk! 
 it sounds great!
  
  value: all this for $29.99? buy now!!!!
  
  reviewer's tilt: this is an overall amazing game, but still, the online mode doesnt involve transformers 
 fighting, but really you, an autobot ompleting random challenges each day to help your side win 
 a piece of the allspark (see the movie to find out about this, or just watch the cartoon) . if you 
 have a ds, get this game, or its evil twin, transformers decepticons, which is identical except 
 for a few little things, like one level, some vehicles, missions, challenges, and playable characters. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DarkMaster7991
Rating: 8.9
Date: Jun 27, 2007 9:43 pm PT
Review:  Since I tried the game for the Wii and PS2 and was disspointed a decided why try the DS one. For 
 Spider Man 3 the DS one turned out to be better than the concle ones. I wasn't expecting it to 
 be fantastic but I was underestimating it! This turned out to be a Fantastic game! One of the cool 
 things is the GTA style free-roam for the DS! That and the fact it's 2 diffrent game that both 
 give a great experince and both it woth getting. Plus you save money paying for this then getting 
 the Home System ones. The Transformer you control is intresting too. Instead of playing as Optimus 
 Prime or Bumbble Bee you play as a coutom charcter. When the game starts you put a name. I put 
 Jay. Then the game starts and your (what ever name you put) a Robot on the transformer side who 
 came to earth with the Autobots to get the All-sparks. You also get experince that helps your charcter 
 out in combat and in order to change into diffrent vechicle you scan them. Mostly any car in the 
 game you can scan and then your apprence changes along with what car you transform into. Once you 
 scan a car it's in like a data base. So after every car you scan you can still use them. The multiplayer 
 is great and the fact you can get extra things from the Nintendo Download Station and Extra when 
 buying the game at Best Buy give the Replay value a good. The only really problem is the graphics 
 are alittle blocky but that get way over maked up with eveyrhting else. The other problem in range 
 weapons. Blaster sometime have trouble targeting on the Depticons you fight and the scanner sometines 
 doesn't lock on a car in front of you but that also doesn't get in the way much. The thing that 
 really makes the gmae good is the Allsparks mode. That's where the WI-Fi comes in. depending which 
 game your using your con a certain side. Once you go online you do a certain mission which gives 
 points to whatever team you are in. Then which ever team wins gets a piece of the All-Sparks and 
 the status is checked up on a certain site. It fun and oringinal. Oh and the other bad thing is 
 certain missions can get very anoyying but besides that an the allright graphics the game is great. 
 A game you should pick up and I suggest to get both versions for a equally diffrent story and game. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Deccamann
Rating: 7
Date: Jun 25, 2007 8:37 pm PT
Review:  I have always been a Transformers fan and I pray the day comes when a half-decent Transformers 
 game will come out. The voices are great and the fact that you scan different vehicles and take 
 their form is pretty cool. I just thought there would be a bit more substance. I'm glad the game 
 belongs to my 5 year old and I hope the Xbox360 version is better.
  The graphics are sub par and the repetitious square buildings get annoying after awhile. I feel 
 like bumblebee and ironhide are more like spiderman and not actual Transformers. You spend a large 
 portion of the game climbing walls and jumping from building tops than fighting decepticons. At 
 one point in time, I thought I was playing Spiderman 3 and waiting for a web to shoot out of Ironhide's 
 fist. The minigames are silly. Why on earth would an Autobot get bonus points for destroying the 
 city in as little time as possible; It just doesn't make any sense. Another issue I have is that 
 each level has about 3 differewnt parts to it. After you beat the initial part of the level, Optimus 
 Prime gives you the next part of the mission and believe me, they can be very time-consuming and 
 redundant. If you fail on the second or third part of the level, you're back to square one again. 
 At that point in time, I find myself hitting the power button and putting in Time Ace or Castlevania.
 
  Maybe it's me and maybe I have gotten too old for the DS, but to all the serious gamers out there, 
 spend the $35 on someting worthwhile. Nuff said... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MarkedByAshes
Rating: 6.7
Date: Aug 12, 2007 2:26 pm PT
Review:  What can I say other than Wow, I was SO wrong ! I was so burned by the PSP version (feel free to 
 reference my PSP review if needed) that I figured there was no way this title could be any good 
 at all. All of the screen shots have been horrendous and not helping the fact that it IS a movie 
 tie-in. But once you get over the fact that the graphics look like fuzzy micro machines in a cardboard 
 cut-out world, you're going to have as much fun in that world as you did watching the original 
 cartoon.
  
  This is what the PSP game SHOULD have been. If you combined the PSP graphics with the DS game, 
 it would have been the ULTIMATE movie tie-in. The control scheme works, the characters move along 
 at a good pace, and there is even more character animation when they transform than the PSP version. 
 I'm no fanboy of either system since I own both, but considering the lack of decent titles on the 
 DS in comparison to the PSP, I'm really excited to see the DS outshine the PSP for once. Now if 
 only we could get a FEW things cleaned up. The control scheme is as simple as can be (directional 
 button for movement, L and R to rotate camera, jump, fire weapon, punch/kick) with minimal touch 
 screen support (scanner, map, and transformation) make it easy for anyone to pick up and start 
 playing, but there was one control that was missing... WHY CAN'T I LOOK UP AND DOWN ON MY OWN??? 
 The semi-automatic targeting can make it difficult to lock on to exactly what you're looking for 
 if you're trying to scan a new vehicle at your feet or that enemy that's flying above. I can get 
 past the fact that the game has terrible graphics since there are large, free-roam maps to explore, 
 GTA-style missions to accomplish, and the animations are more fluid than the PSP version by far. 
 Add in downloadable content like unlockable characters from Best Buy and Target download stations 
 and WiFi missions to participate in the global Allspark War , this game has tons of replay value 
 without even mentioning the multiplayer mode. But now that I do mention it, they could have benefited 
 from an 8 player support instead of only 4 player. As far as the difference between Autobots and 
 Decepticons, there's not much except the story. With the time I've put into each version, they 
 both start with the same general tutorial and available vehicles to scan and transform into. And 
 it looks as if both versions have the exact same list of vehicles UNLESS I just haven't scanned 
 the right ones yet. (There were some in the Autobot version I scanned that were not added to my 
 inventory... they may be usable in the Decepticon version and I just haven't tried yet.) As I mentioned, 
 the story line is where the changes are made. The Autobots version will naturally follow the path 
 of the movie's story line where as the Decepticons will have an alternate story. So for those looking 
 to enjoy the game without too many movie spoilers, grab up the Decepticon edition first. But I 
 do reccomend BOTH versions equally. And you really should get them both for the sake of enjoying 
 all aspects of the game experience. With the ease of gameplay and variety of single-player, multi-player, 
 and downloadable mission content, this should appeal to most DS owners, not just Transformers fans. 
 Added 8/12/07: Now that I've finished the Autobot's story mode, I have to adjust my review. I still 
 think it's a great DS title, but it's just too dang short. And to add to it, there are some missions 
 and boss battles that were unnecessarily difficult due to incompetent AI from your Autobot teammates 
 (Bumblebee is such a wuss) and design flaws (being knocked out of the playing field while fighting 
 Megatron results in a failed mission) . I also would have liked to be able to skip the dialogue 
 once I had watched it the first time. Otherwise, it's still a guilty pleasure. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: KorZ
Rating: 7
Date: Jun 24, 2007 9:43 am PT
Review:  This game: It reminds me of Spiderman. The missions, the graphics the sounds. They are just equal! 
 Anyway, the game is cool because I liked Spiderman. Even Shrek is better than this! :D The sound 
 is very good too. It has great themes. If you willing to buy a new game, look for another game. 
 This one doesn't worth that much on your money. I've played Autobots version. I don't think the 
 Deceptions is diferent in history. But for the PSP may be the best on the series. This game doesn't 
 has too much missions nor history. AH AH AH, this even doesn't sounds like me but Pokemon is greater.... 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Bobbyh23
Rating: 8
Date: Jun 22, 2007 11:32 am PT
Review:  Unlike most games that are based off of movies, (Spider Man 2, for example) Transformers: Autobots 
 actually is a good game. It features plenty of unique features, that even fans of the original 
 cartoon would enjoy. The game begins as your character, an ambitious Autobot, crash lands on earth. 
 He is told by Ironhide, one of the main Autobots in the movie, to see if his weapons system is 
 working. After the weapons tutorial, your character sees a car, he scans the car, and then transforms 
 into it.
  
  This is one thing unique about the game. Scanning vehicles and transforming into them. Almost any 
 car, truck or jet is able to be scanned, giving lots of options to choose from. If you want to 
 be a tough Van, then so be it. If you want to be a fast Sports Car, do it. If you want to fly around 
 in the sky as a Helicopter, you can be it. After you choose which vehicle you transform into, you 
 also get to customize it's color scheme, giving your character a very unique look.
  
  Missions are very different. From escorting, to protecting, to destroying. Each mission either 
 lets you play as your own character, or one of the main transformers in the movie.
  
  G1 fans will really like the voice acting by Optimus Prime; mainly because it's by Peter Cullen, 
 the original voice actor for Optimus Prime in the first cartoon series. The game also features 
 a very Lite RPG feeling. When you scrap enemies, you gain experience points allowing you to level 
 up, and further enhance your powers. Allowing you to climb, and even shoot lasers from your Vehicle 
 form.
  
  Probably the most unique element of the game is it's online feature, allowing you to compete against 
 the Decepticons, and fight for the all powerful Allspark; The item that gives life to all Transformers.
 
  
  In conclusion, I highly reccomend this game to all fans of Transformers. So, what are you waiting 
 for Autobots, Transform and Rollout! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: JBird185
Rating: 6.1
Date: Jul 30, 2007 8:53 am PT
Review:  Transformers: Autobots for the Nintendo DS is a third-person action game based on the upcoming 
 movie. And even though its a movie-based game, there are no free plot spoilers that'll ruin the 
 movie for anyone planning to see it. And from what I've learned, the Autobots and Decepticons are 
 two different adventures. So whether you choose good or bad, you have two different games to choose 
 from.
  
  As you start the game, you don't play as any of the Autobots, but a newbie who is referred to as 
 the Young One . But later in the game, you will be able to play as the other Autobots thru missions. 
 The first thing that caught me by surprise was the talented voice acting provided by some of the 
 movie's cast (with the exception of Hugo Weaving) .
  
  Graphics are pretty much like a low-end version of Metroid Prime: Hunters. Its understanding, due 
 to the open-ended game play (ie: GTA: San Andreas) . Controls are tricky and can be confusing during 
 the close combat, but you get use to it after a while. One complaint is the camera, which is not 
 helpful when you want to look up for anything. The bottom screen is where you control the transformation 
 function (which is fun to do over and over) . And theres also the map button, the radar, and the 
 scanner, which allows your character to scan vehicles for more than one optional form. As far as 
 difficulty goes, lets just say it borderlines insanity. Trust me, you'll be as frustrated with 
 this game as any other. The one downside to missions I don't like is when you mess up, you start 
 from the beginning, and that gets tedious after a while.
  
  The online aspect is somewhat disappointing. Instead of just having a PvP option (which is what 
 can do thru local wireless) , you are part of this online goal of claiming the Allspark . And depending 
 which game you chose, it determines which side you're on. And instead of PvP, like I mentioned, 
 you have to play out minigames, or challenges , from the offline portion of the game.
  
  Overall, this a solid game with some draw-backs. If you're a hard-core fan of the franchise, you'll 
 love it. As for people like me, its fun for a while. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: LionsGate
Rating: 8.4
Date: Jun 20, 2007 7:40 pm PT
Review:  Before Transformers explodes on the big screen on July 4th, Activision will be releasing games 
 on all current platforms to tie in with the movie. From what is already aparent in this Nintendo 
 DS game (the system you would least expect a quality movie tie-in game) , it seems to me like they 
 may have one of the best movie tie-ins ever. Lets just hope the movie at least matches the quality 
 of it's tie-in games. I think it will. On with the review!
  
  PRESENTATION: 8/10
  - The overall presentation for Transformers: Autobots is well above average for a third-party DS 
 game. Right away you have great cover art on the box. Unfortunately when you open the box up you 
 will see a very thin instruction booklet which is in black and white. That isn't the only bad thing 
 about this games presentation. The map you can access on the touch screen is too small to see exactly 
 what street you are on. Turn on the game and you will see a very snazzy menu complete with music 
 that reminds you of the old cartoon. And as a perfect mood setter, the game starts off with a great 
 CG opening narated by Optimus Prime himself.
  
  STORY: 10/10
  - The story is layed out nicely throughout the game. There are some spoilers to the movie but not 
 many really. If anything this game is the perfect precurser to the movie if you don't feel like 
 reading the official Prequel Novel or Prequel Comics (both are great) . GRAPHICS: 8/10
  - These graphics are some of the nicest and most ambitious of any third-party DS game. I will just 
 start out by saying that there are several free roaming places for you to roam around as much as 
 you want. Basically think of GTA or Spiderman 2 and 3 for the consoles. This game is very much 
 like those games. There is a lot of blockiness and pixels to be seen but everything looks great 
 when you aren't right up against something. The Transformers themselves are the nicest looking 
 things in the game along with their Transformations. The Autobots that you will see in the movie 
 have the nicest Transformation animations, while the cars that your character transforms into will 
 have slightly less detailed animations. And you would think with all of this that there would be 
 slowdown. Well there isn't! Not even with several things happening at once. Did I mention the game 
 starts off with a pretty long CG opening?
  
  GAMEPLAY: 8/10
  - You control a rookie Autobot for most of the game that will not be in the movie. Throughout the 
 game you will learn how to fire your weapons, mele attacks, transforming, and to scan other vehicles 
 and aircraft. For every Decepticon you defeat you gain points that will eventually allow you to 
 level up. Leveling up increases your strength and unlocks mele attacks and better firepower. The 
 controls for the most part are great. You can transform standing still, while running, or while 
 falling off a building for a nice effect. The handling of the cars varies upon which car you are 
 transformed into. The school bus for example will be slow, and so will the robot. You will be using 
 the D pad to move about both on the ground and in the air. Flying is also very easy to do. Upon 
 reaching a certain level you will even be able to climb on top of any bulding. Much like the recent 
 Spider-Man games for the consoles you will be able to freely roam the cities, or you can go to 
 the green dot on your map to receive a mission from one of your Autobot friends. Many of the missions 
 are time based, and I will warn you, they can be challenging and frusterating at times. The biggest 
 problem with the gameplay in this game is the lockon system. It automatically locks on a target 
 for you and the only way to change the target is to look at who you want to shoot. And while you 
 can change the camera from left to right you cannot look up, which makes it hard to shoot some 
 planes. Many times you will find yourself having to climb a building so that you can see a plane 
 that is attacking you. Another small problem is that the hand to hand mele attacks are slow and 
 it really doesn't make much sense to use them. It is better to just keep your distance and fire 
 away at your foes. Other than that, the gameplay in this game is excellent, and fun which is the 
 most important thing. The game takes about how long you would think a game with this much in it 
 would take. But with all of the audio, huge cities, and great graphics I am surprised they have 
 more than 2 missions in the whole thing!
  
  AUDIO: 10/10
  - And the award for Best Audio in a DS game goes to.... Yup you heard me correctly. A third party 
 actually took their time and implemented voice work into a DS game! ALL of the dialogue in this 
 game is from the voice actors in the actual film. There will be dialogue between the autobots at 
 the start of almost every mission, and you will also hear your enemies talking to eachother and 
 you. Things like a cop car saying There is a giant.. uh.. robot doing some damage downtown! . Also 
 Bumblebee, one of the main Transformers in the game and the movie cannot talk. He instead uses 
 songs, and speeches over the radio to convey what he is trying to say (Megatron crushed his audio 
 device a long time ago in a battle on Cybertron, their home world) . You will even hear that in 
 this game!
  
  REPLAY VALUE: 9/10
  - Once you complete the game you can still try to scan every possible vehicle in the game in any 
 of the handful of free roaming worlds. Once you are done for that you can take this game online 
 via the Nintendo Wifi Connection and download missions that you can complete to get unlockable 
 content. When you download these missions you can go back online once you have completed them to 
 upload your scores which will aid your side (Autobot or Decepticon) in the online war called the 
 Allspark Wars. Then of course if you get bored with that you have the option to trade this game 
 for the Decepticons version of the game which features a completely different story, as well as 
 different vehicles, characters, and worlds to roam!
  
  I highly reccommend this game to any Transformers fan, as well as any fan of action games. You 
 will not be dissapointed. I also encourage everyone to go see Transformers in theaters on July 
 4th. If this game is any indication it will be amazing. Please go see it in the theater, and do 
 not pirate the movie. You should support this movie so that it will make enough money for a sequel 
 to be greenlit, which in turn means more Transformers games! Enjoy the game and let me know how 
 Transformers: Decepticons is! 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
