-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Trauma Center: Under the Knife
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/ds/adventure/traumacenter/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 A wide variety of surgical scenarios.
 Easy to use touch-screen controls.
 Quirky visual style.
 Challenge mode adds replay value.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 Sometimes too difficult for its own good.
 Story mode isn't exceptionally long.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Oct  6, 2005
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 7.8
Critic Score: 8.0, 60 Review (s)
User Score: 8.5, 2,237 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Atlus Co.
Genre: Action
Date: Oct 4, 2005
ESRB: Teen

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Trauma Center succeeds because it strikes such a good balance between its medical theme and its 
 puzzler roots. 

  Trauma Center: Under the Knife is yet another in a recent deluge of anime-inspired adventure games 
 for the Nintendo DS. In this one, you play yet another spiky-haired hero imbued with special powers 
 on a quest to save the world. What's the hook? This spiky-haired hero happens to be a doctor. The 
 threat to the world's safety, in this case, is medical terrorism. A rogue group with mysterious 
 intentions is unleashing a man-made disease called GUILT upon the world, and it's up to you to 
 stop them. You'll do that by doing what any good doctor would -- performing a whole lot of surgeries. 
 Wait, give it a chance. This isn't just some stodgy medical simulation. Trauma Center is more of 
 a challenging puzzler with medical underpinnings than anything even remotely medical-simlike. The 
 game makes solid use of the DS's touch-screen technology by putting the scalpel in your (hopefully) 
 steady hands through a series of fast-paced, marginally insane surgical scenarios. It's an offbeat 
 game for sure, and at times it can be a little too tough for its own good, but DS owners with a 
 strong stomach and an open mind ought to have a good time with Trauma Center.  

          Never have pancreatic tumors been so much fun!     

  In the game, you play Dr. Derek 
 Stiles, a young, relatively inexperienced doctor working at Hope Hospital. Derek's a little on 
 the carefree side, a trait that he's frequently admonished for by his colleagues. Still, like any 
 young, mildly cocky doctor, the point isn't driven home until Derek almost loses a patient due 
 to his casualness. Derek is distraught after this, debating quitting the profession altogether. 
 But then an emergency patient comes in, and -- you guessed it -- Derek is the only doctor who can save 
 him. Things start to go horribly wrong, but then suddenly, time slows, and Derek is able to quickly 
 patch up the injured patient, much to his nurse's amazement. It turns out that Derek is blessed 
 with a gift known as the "healing touch," an ability that gives him superhuman speed and concentration 
 while performing surgery. Explaining the plot beyond this would give too much away, but needless 
 to say, it dives into incredibly ludicrous depths. The aforementioned medical terrorism and GUILT 
 take up much of the story, leading Derek on some truly unique medical adventures. Take  that, ER 
 .  

  All of the main action in Trauma Center takes place on the touch screen. Along the sides of the 
 screen, you have icons for all your main surgical tools, like your scalpel, clamp, laser, sutures, 
 and even a futuristic antibiotic gel that actually cures minor cuts, and disinfects anything it 
 touches. The bulk of the screen is taken up by your patient. You'll start off more often than not 
 with an uncut patient that must be carefully cut open via the scalpel. Once in, you'll find the 
 affected organ. Conditions vary from patient to patient. One moment, you'll be draining and removing 
 tumors from someone's pancreas, and the next you'll be fighting off GUILT-infected tumors that 
 actually will move around a given area, making them exceptionally difficult to nail down and remove. 
 All of these cases require fairly specific orders of events, and the challenge comes from simply 
 trying to manage all these different tasks while on the clock. Every surgery has a time limit, 
 and all the while, a patient's vital signs must be kept stable. If the vital signs drop, you can 
 take a moment to inject them a few times with more magic gel to restore them, but that takes time. 
 You'll need to be extremely quick and mindful to succeed.  

  The basic actions you're required to do with the stylus don't require much more than a few types 
 of movements. Suturing a wound simply involves zigzagging the stylus over a cut; removing of tumors 
 or other ugly things involves following a set track of dots around the object with the scalpel 
 as quickly (but carefully) as possible; draining excess fluids and blood involves placing the drain 
 over the affected area and moving the stylus up the drain tube to emulate suction. Again, it's 
 not the actions themselves that are challenging, but rather the brisk pace at which you must switch 
 between them, and the aforementioned limits on time and vital signs.  

  In fact, at times, the pacing can almost be too much to deal with. Some of the late-game challenges 
 often require some figuring out, even despite the help you're always given by your trusty nurse 
 via the top screen in every surgery. At times, the time limits seem merciless with the tasks given 
 to you, and there will be quite a few instances where you'll have to do surgeries over and over 
 again until you either get lucky or figure out the sometimes obfuscated trick required to proceed. 
 Sometimes, the zoomed camera angles can be a little touchy. More often, it's an issue with the 
 game's perception of what is and isn't a circle. What we mean is that in order to zoom in on a 
 section, you have to select the magnifier icon and draw a circle around that area. You have to 
 be pretty precise about this, though, so quick circles often lead to an angry failure buzzer. That 
 can be really annoying in a high-pressure situation. Still, surgeries are quite a bit of fun despite 
 these occasional flaws, and they rarely require more than five minutes of your time, so it's not 
 like you have to do an awful lot each time you repeat. It's just a little frustrating, is all. 

  If Trauma Center has any one major flaw, it's that it pads itself out a tad too much. The game 
 uses a basic chapter structure for the story, with multiple sections within each chapter. Most 
 of these sections each contain a single surgery event, but several of these sections are just story, 
 with no action on your part except to press the button to keep the dialogue moving. The story mode 
 itself isn't exceptionally long, either. Fortunately, there's a challenge mode in which you can 
 play any beaten surgeries over again for higher rankings. Getting top ranks is no easy feat, so 
 you ought to have a lot of fun going back and trying to perfect your surgical skills.  

  Trauma Center is a very anime game. The top screen displays all the characters as they converse 
 with you, and each one is designed with the archetypal characteristics you'd find in just about 
 any anime; spiky hair, overwrought poses and really big eyes, and so on and so forth. They're cool-looking 
 characters though, and highly colorful. None of them ever animate, mind you -- all the dialogue bits 
 are handled with still frame shots and subtitles -- but it's great-looking art design. As for the 
 touch-screen action, the surgical bits are handled with some basic-looking 3D models. The game 
 never gets overly gross with the action. Sure, some occasionally rank-looking fluids will pop up, 
 but the game uses the effects sparingly, so you're unlikely to gag at the sight of too much blood 
 or anything like that. So, while Trauma Center isn't exactly a technical powerhouse graphically, 
 it's got plenty of charm and style, and what it's got works great contextually.  

          If only all doctors struck awesome poses like this before cutting people open. Elective 
 surgeries would skyrocket!     

  There's not an awful lot of audio in Trauma Center, which is unfortunate, because what it does 
 have works well. There's plenty of superdramatic music to ramp up the tension during surgical sequences, 
 and while some of it gets pretty repetitive, the majority of the music does its job nicely. There's 
 almost no voice work, save for occasional utterances of words like "What the...?" and "Doctor!" 
 by whoever's on the top screen during certain sequences. You'll get more than a few gooshy sound 
 effects as you slice away at tumors and drain fluids, but again, it's all contextually correct 
 and solid stuff.  

  Trauma Center succeeds because it strikes such a good balance between its medical theme and its 
 puzzler roots. It's more than just a DS version of the old board game Operation, but it's also 
 not so complex that anyone couldn't pick it up and enjoy it. While the mind-blowing storyline might 
 lead some to scoff and the general brevity of the gameplay might give you pause, overall, there's 
 a fun time to be had with Trauma Center, and it's definitely worth your while to check it out. 
     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (168 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: lights33
Rating: 6
Date: Aug 24, 2008 5:11 pm PT
Review:  Trauma Center is a game that puts the player in the shoes of an up-and-coming young surgeon as 
 he learns the ropes in a hospital and eventually performs some amazing surgeries.
  
  The game itself plays well enough, using the touch screen effectively in a myriad of surgical procedures 
 including suturing, excisions, cauterizing, and more.
  
  However, the storyline is uninspired, featuring silly, repetitive dialogue and mostly one-dimensional 
 characters. What's more, this game, which throws around medical terminology with bravado, actually 
 contains almost no medical truth whatsoever. While forgivable because the game does not purport 
 to be instructive in actual surgical techniques, the improper use of jargon and situations is completely 
 idiotic to those with even marginal medical knowledge.
  
  Those who might play this game would do well not to try to apply anything learned in the game to 
 real life situations, as you will be in for a rude awakening. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Strikerfan116
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 11, 2008 4:01 pm PT
Review:  Trauma Center: Under the Knife, is a great game. Despite having some major glitches (search trauma 
 center glitches on youtube) , it was still a great game. There's not much to say about this game 
 that's already been said. Though the graphics could have been better, Trauma Center put everything 
 else into check. It was fun, it had a gripping storyline, interesting characters, and a cool power 
 that lets you slow down time. EPIC! The difficulty is where this game could really improve. Sometimes 
 too hard for it's own good (examples: X-3: Triti, X-2 Deftera, pretty much Deftera in general) , 
 Trauma Center would have been higher in our hearts if it wasn't so damn hard. With that being said, 
 Trauma Center is still a damn fine game, but with Trauma Center: UTK 2 out, this game is soon gonna 
 be forgotten. Such a shame. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jjgrice1985
Rating: 8.5
Date: May 30, 2008 12:53 pm PT
Review:  This is one of those games that drives you mad. Not for the wrong reasons but just the fact that 
 no matter how much you play, you will just keep going. It starts off easy enough with the basic 
 operations, but quickly elevates to a harder but still entertaining level. It is highly addictive 
 and has an in depth story line that varies from your personal development as a surgeon, your colleagues 
 family life, to the lethal 'guilt' virus. The levels in this game just seem to keep coming and 
 never seem to get tiresome., even once you have completed the game you just keep going back to 
 get that elusive 'master surgeon' ranking. Over all it is one of my favorite games and is well 
 worth buying, i will keep playing this to the death of my DS (which wont be long with the battering 
 it has been taking) . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: guyguyguy1234
Rating: 8
Date: May 6, 2008 6:35 pm PT
Review:  Trauma Center Under The Knife for the Nintendo DS is great. But personally I prefer second opinion 
 for the Nintendo Wii. But a great game none-the-less.
  
  Good- Touch Abilities help realism in this. Extremely Addictive. Great Story. Very Fun! A wonderful 
 Nintendo DS game. Great Characters. Smooth Gameplay.
  
  Bad- Graphics aren't as good as you'd like them to be. The drawings are not very good. The sound 
 is kind of grainy. Very hard difficulty.
  
  This is a surgery (Surgery? Yes surgery) game. It is extremely fun and characters and story is 
 wonderful! It is also one of the best DS games out there. This is also extremely addictive. However 
 Graphics aren't as good as you'd like them to be. The drawings are not very good either compared 
 to sequels. The sound is kind of grainy at times. Very hard difficulty. Like really really hard! 
 But I highly recommend it to anyone who doesn't have a wii and likes surgery or puzzles. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Fire_Emblem_RD
Rating: 8.5
Date: May 3, 2008 9:05 pm PT
Review:  When i first saw this game i thought it was one of those stupid Japanese Anime games only to be 
 loved by those who read Inu Yasha or whatever everyday, but then when i played it i found a game 
 that deserves much more than a 'pick up at store, read back, put back down' kinda game.
  
  So your names Derek and you've just started working at the cliche Hope Hospital, where you are 
 a surgeon (obviously) . Although at first you simply remove glass and put it on a tray the game 
 reasonably quickly escalates to you having a medical gift to slow your perception of time and work 
 ridiculously fast and fighting strange diseases known as GUILT. 
  To give an example, the first one you come across Kyriaki which creates big cuts inside the body, 
 but it only surfaces when the tissue is sutured back up.
  So then you need to use the ultrasound to find it then slice it down the centre, then it surfaces 
 making it a target for your laser, so you have to laser it 3 times, but there are Bigger ones and 
 times where there are multiple ones, so you have to do all that while suturing lacerations and 
 making sure your patients vitals dont drop to zero. It mightn't look hard but thats the easy one, 
 compared to the others its a walk in the park. 
  
  But no matter how difficult it is you will want to keep on playing cause its so addictive and fun, 
 making for a great innovative game that although might be difficult to pick up and buy, will suck 
 you in the minute you put the cartridge into your DS 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Tratendo
Rating: 8
Date: Mar 9, 2008 10:43 am PT
Review:  Very addictive medically themed puzzler. It is not that often that you see a medically themed game 
 so that alone was worth getting this game if you are student of medicine or just like surgery. 
 The characters may be 2D and the story very one dimensional but the actual levels are quite challenging 
 and keep you coming back for more. Some of the levels were so difficult that you may find yourself 
 looking for help on the web. Each level adds some difficulty. The game overall is a bit too short 
 and wish there could have been more. The broken up nature of each individual surgery is very conducive 
 to short pick up and play sessions though which is great in a hand held game. So far one of the 
 best games in my DS collection. Its kind of hard to find but well worth it. It incorporates use 
 of the touch screen beautifully. This is exactly the kind of game that uses the hardware as it 
 should. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bluej33
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 26, 2008 2:27 pm PT
Review:  I would assume that a good number of people out there have undergone surgery -- I myself have multiple 
 times. And from my end, it's all pretty easy. Sure, there's a bit of anxiety going into it ("What 
 if they give me too much anesthesia?") , but in 30 minutes I'm up and feeling fine. But have you 
 ever thought about what it's like on the doctor's end? What do you do with someone who's on the 
 line, who's put their life into your hands? Do you have what it takes? Well, you're about to find 
 out
  
  I'll begin very much to the point: Trauma Center is hands definitely one of my favorite games for 
 the DS. I, like many other DS owners out there, was somewhat disappointed with the lack of really 
 innovative games for the system. With this incredible touch screen, why weren't there more games 
 that really took advantage of it? Where were all the games that could only be done on the DS?
 
  
  Well, Trauma Center was definitely one of them (not any more, though -- the series now has games 
 on the Wii) . It may seem unorthodox to have a game revolving around playing doctor on the DS, but 
 it actually works quite well. The controls, specifically, work very well; the touch screen serves 
 as an excellent channel to emulate actions executed by all sorts of medical tools.
  
  The game is divided up into chapters, which are in turn divided into operations. There are six 
 chapters, with around 10 operations each. Each operation has some specific goal; at the beginning, 
 they are fairly mundane. Beginning operations include such standard OR procedures as patching up 
 somebody who ran crashed on a motorcycle.
  
  As you progress further and further into the game, though, the mission variety becomes quite impressive. 
 Operations will shift from the ordinary to the extraordinary, requiring you to solve puzzles and 
 find the weaknesses of many viruses in an attempt to save your patients. While the operations are 
 by no stretch of the imagination realistic, they are quite varied; there are some repeated levels, 
 but the second time you play through a virus, it is a souped-up version of the original.
  
  But how exactly do you perform operations? It's quite simple, really: with the help of your trusty 
 DS stylus and ten in-game tools. The tools you'll put to work are actually quite standard, including 
 antibiotic gel, a scalpel, forceps, a laser, thread and needle, or even your (gloved) hand.
  
  Every operation (with only a few exceptions) begin with you opening up the problem spot on 
 your patient. Inside, there's usually some sort of problem; perhaps there is glass under your patients 
 skin, or maybe there's an evil worm-like virus attempting to eat out your patient's heart. Whatever 
 the problem, your ten tools will be put to work as you attempt to cure the patient's ailment and 
 put their infections to rest.
  
  Around all this operating is a surprisingly well-written story. You take on the role of rookie 
 doctor Derek Stiles. After being placed in a high-pressure situation, he is found to have a mysterious 
 ability inherited from Aeschylus, the world's first doctor: the Healing Touch. He must use this 
 ability and the help of fellow doctors and nurse Angie Blackwell to combat an evil infection of 
 viruses called G. U. I. L. T. Behind these world-threatening viruses is the enigmatic medical bioterrorism 
 organization Delphi. For such a gameplay-oriented title, Under the Knife does a surprisingly good 
 job of incorporating the plot smoothly in with the rest of the game, and some shockingly well-done 
 plot twists.
  
  The character development is also very well-done. In between operations, you'll get short conversations 
 between multiple characters. In addition to progressing the ever-twisting and highly entertaining 
 plot, these conversations do an incredible job of developing the characters and making them seem 
 completely lifelike. Some characters are far deeper than they first appear, and while development 
 for some secondary characters is a little lacking, the way that the five or so truly "main" characters 
 are handled is phenomenal. In fact, if you're a fan of such TV shows as House, M. D. or Grey's Anatomy, 
 then you'll feel right at home with the way characters in Trauma Center are developed.
  
  Additionally, the above-mentioned Healing Touch plays a big role in gameplay as the plot progresses 
 and the game's operations get a lot tougher. Chose your hand as a tool and quickly draw a large 
 star across the touch screen. Time will immediately slow down and damage taken by your patient 
 will drop dramatically. In addition to making Derek seem ridiculously cool, the Healing Touch is 
 critical for operations when you just need a little bit of extra help to squeak by.
  
  Under the Knife also earns some points because it's avoided the DS stigma, if you will, that games 
 for the DS are easy. Because, as those who have played it no doubt now, Under the Knife is devilishly 
 tough. For one, there's a restrictive time limit placed on each level. For beginning levels, this 
 doesn't present much of a problem; however, as you progress through the game, that time limit is 
 going to become your worst enemy. You'll have to act quickly and decisively in order to come out 
 with a "Mission Completed".
  
  To add further to the already ramped-up difficulty is the fact that your patients' vital signs 
 drop very quickly; certain "attacks" by malicious viruses can knock down your patients' vitals 
 by up to 30 or even 50 points -- which is more worrisome when you consider that the maximum number 
 for vital points is never more than 99. You've got to constantly be on the attack when trying to 
 save a patient, but at the same time you've got to balance that with injecting your patients with 
 healing serum and ensuring that they don't die as you treat them.
  
  It's definitely worthy of note, then, that Trauma Center is not really for the casual gamer. If 
 you're just looking for a way to pass the minutes at the bus stop or in the doctor's office, there's 
 probably a better title out there for you. Trauma Center is addicting enough that it's tough to 
 put down (even when you keep losing multiple times in a row) , and it's hard enough that it can 
 easily frustrate anyone who's not in to gaming. That said, if you're on the fence about this title 
 because of its difficulty level, know that it's overall an extremely rewarding game, and the fantastically-written 
 story line and loveable characters may provide enough incentive for you to keep banging your head 
 against the same wall -- it did for me, anyway.
  
  Graphically, Trauma Center is fine. It's similar to Fire Emblem games in regards to the way that 
 story scenes unfold. Sadly, there are no custcenes, but plot sequences take place with a picture 
 of a character next to whatever it is that he or she is saying. The operation graphics are also 
 decent, but nothing spectacular. Things look nice, organs are (surprisingly) easily identifiable, 
 and the blood, while realistic, isn't graphicly so. While it's by no means the best looking DS 
 game out there, the visuals easily serve their purpose.
  
  The music is in similar boat, although overall it is better than the visual quality of Under the 
 Knife. The music is well-done, though slightly forgettable. Still, as far as immersion goes (a 
 big aspect of any game in my book) , the music is well done and definitely contributes a lot. There's 
 also some occasional voice work, though it's not used for story points. Rather, during some operations, 
 a vocal cue (your nurse shouting, "Come on, Doctor!", for example) is the only hint given to you 
 that you need to take drastic action now. That said, you'll probably need the sound the entire 
 game, because you never know when such a moment will be sprung upon you. Still, that's not a bad 
 thing, because it'll expose you to the game's music and make Under the Knife an overall more enjoyable 
 game.
  
  There's also a good amount of replay value, thanks to the fact that you can easily go back and 
 play any level that you want, so long as you've beaten it in the story mode. You're given a letter 
 rank, ranging from D, worst, to S, best, for each level that you complete. For completionists out 
 there who want to get an S on every single operation (no mean feat, considering how tough the operations 
 are normally) , there's a lot of work to be done, and you are ensured many, many hours of game time 
 with this title, even once the credits have rolled.
  
  Overall, Trauma Center: Under the Knife is one of the best, most innovative, and most addicting 
 titles out there for the Nintendo DS. While it may not be the best choice for casual gamers thanks 
 to its high difficulty level, it is incredibly rewarding for those willing to stick with it and 
 play the game to its satisfying finale. Gameplay is intense, fun, and addicting, the story is wonderful 
 and supported by some great-written characters, and there's plenty of game value. If you're looking 
 for a challenging, exciting gaming experience for the DS, you owe it to yourself to start poking 
 around for a copy of Trauma Center: Under the Knife. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: N64rox
Rating: 8.5
Date: Feb 25, 2008 6:12 pm PT
Review:  TC: UTK is a very innovative game, with excellent stylus control and sweet game-play. As a lot of 
 other people have said, the game is very hard, but when you get past a challenging surgery, it's 
 all the more rewarding. As far as story goes, in the beginning it might seem very brief, unimportant, 
 and altogether linear, but as you get further in the game it is a major part. The sound can get 
 repetitive, but never enough to really annoy you. One small problem is that dialogue isn't very 
 deep. Game-play involves you using the stylus as a a scalpel, a pair of tweezers, a drain, a syringe 
 and many more as you perform surgery with futuristic (year is like 2021) methods. A nice system 
 but sometimes repetitive. Although it is good there are many levels, taking on the same kind of 
 GUILT so many times isn't that fun. I'd recommend this game to patient people who like unique games. 
 Hold up your stylus and let's have fun removing a tumor! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DarkChrisss1995
Rating: 8.5
Date: Feb 20, 2008 11:16 am PT
Review:  This is one of the best games I ever played in my life!!! Seriously!
  It is not really THAT good, but it is highly addictive. Make operations, solve puzzles (which made 
 my head hurting) and make an operation to a... BOMB!!!
  I have not seen that in any other games...
  The graphics aren't bad, but they have could been 
 a lot better. They are very detalised and colorful, especially the BLOOD. The viruses are not made 
 very well , but the people are colorful and well drawn.
  The sounds are very awesome, you can hear the patients' heart beat very clearly, and there are 
 great voiced phrases like: 'What the?..' or 'Great work, Doctor Stiles!' which made me laugh.
 
  I've nothing more to add about gameplay, because I have written evrything, what I wanted to.
 
  The price is alright, 40$ sounds fair.
  Everything is almost perfect, except the plot.
  It wasn't written by Shakespeare. That is obvious. It is very funny, because it is focused on a 
 virus called GUILT, and that isn't very smart.
  But, it is a solid game, and i had good time playing it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TechDresdain
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 20, 2008 5:43 am PT
Review:  Playing Trauma Center makes you feel like a real doctor. Nurses will help you what to do. You're 
 going to stitch wounds, inject, and by doing this by the use of you're stylus. The technology of 
 playing the game makes you feel how to operate certain wounds. It's like you're a doctor now, saving 
 the lives of others. The game usually starts very easy and when you've gone far, difficulty ain't 
 easy anymore. Feel the pressure of each tense, challenging operation! Operate on a wide variety 
 of patients in story mode, then return later and try to beat your high scores! Experience a compelling 
 story with intriguing characters! Use your applied skills to solve the puzzle of each surgery! 
 Detailed graphics bring the human body to life! Trauma Center: Under the Knife lets YOU play doctor. 
 The stylus will be your scalpel as you make incisions, anesthetize problem areas, remove tumors, 
 monitor vital signs, apply bandages, and more! Deal with high-stress situations and human drama 
 between appointments, but keep a cool head, or you'll be out on the street. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Leruw
Rating: 8
Date: Feb 17, 2008 4:46 pm PT
Review:  Trauma Center: Under the Knife, for the DS, is just one of those games that is amazingly good but 
 that, in some point of the game you just go like "Excuse me?!", trying to understand what the hell 
 is going on.
  
  The game is great, having signed it's presence in other consoles as well - such as the Wii - but 
 as far as my opinion goes, this gameplay on this one is the best on the series - the stylus really 
 makes you feel like you're actually doing something, poking here and there, cutting flesh and using 
 the correct instruments... it's just plain art.
  
  The story however, is really, really weird. It starts decently, you, as a talented doctor, learning 
 with the experiences of "real" life. After the game picks up the pace, however, you are immersed 
 into a almost-alien-like atmosphere where you have to fight diseases virtually unexplainable. It's 
 just weird.   giant-bubbly-thingies... 
 Seriously? I'd liked it better when my real occupation was a doctor - removing glass surgically 
 was much more viable than... well, playing alien vs doctor.
  
  The game has some kind of issues with the difficulty as well. There are operations that make you 
 go smoothly, taking your reflexes at a decent pace, and everything... but sometimes, all of sudden, 
 the game gets ridiculously hard, expecting almost unnaturally superhuman reflexes - and I'm not 
 talking about the main character super powers.
  
  If you can, somehow, forget about this two problems - difficulty and a strange story - you're in 
 for a good game. 
  
  Expect some sweaty moments, though. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DJWildduck
Rating: 8.5
Date: Feb 21, 2008 2:24 am PT
Review:  I never played in anything like this game before. Not just the controls are unique - the whole 
 idea is new to me, and, as far as I know, it's the same to the world of gaming. We all know the 
 board game called 'Operation', but... It's just stupid when someone actually compares 'Trauma Center' 
 to it. 'Trauma Center' takes the idea of you being a doctor far, far further, and lets you be the 
 doctor as close to the real deal as possible yet.
  
  A very strong point of the game is the variety of given operations. The most part of them is quite 
 simple, yet very entertaining, but some of them can be really challenging. The key is to stay calm 
 and focused all the time, if you can't do that - then you'll start getting problems with progressing 
 further already in the 2nd chapter of the game.
  
  Of course, the fun won't be complete without a fitting story. And the offered script fits just 
 perfect - it's not just a story about a young surgeon who struggles to become a respectful doctor. 
 It goes far beyond that, but I don't want to spoil your fun. Just because there will be some frustrating 
 moments in the game, and only the will to follow the story will make you overcome the hard task.
 
  
  Just for a matter of fact - there's a game for NDS called 'Cooking Mama', that allows you to become 
 a chief cook, and gives you certain tasks in order to create some extravagant meal. The whole game, 
 like 'Trauma Center', is also played with a stylus. But unlike 'Trauma Center', 'Cooking Mama' 
 could have become much greater if it had at least a little bit motivation to keep playing, because 
 there's no story there at all. I'm glad that 'Trauma Center' avoided that problem by simply adding 
 a good story to the overall experience.
  
  Many people who reviewed this game said, that this game provides the best usage of the stylus+touchscreen 
 controls. Well, all I can say is that they're damn right! And it becomes clear why there was no 
 such game out before - there simply was no console with a suitable touchscreen until NDS! xD
  
  By the way, I nearly forgot to mention, that this game literally deals with the insides of 
 a human being. So there's much blood involved. If you're a very sensitive person - then I wouldn't 
 recommend playing this game. Otherwise - enjoy ;) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: leilamayhem
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 17, 2008 11:33 am PT
Review:  When I first heard about this game, I was instantly intrigued. It was unlike anything I had ever 
 played before. I picked it up as one of the first games with my DS and have not been disappointed 
 since.
  
  The DS is the perfect console for this game, as all the action happens with the touch screen - 
 for a game all about operating on patients, this makes perfect sense.
  
  I'll admit that I had to look up a walkthrough once or twice as it can get rather tough - perhaps 
 varying difficulty settings would have helped this. I did also find myself forgetting some of the 
 necessary steps for procedures after a lull in playing the game.
  
  Overall, I was drawn to the uniqueness of the game, and found myself excited by the tension in 
 the various operations. The grading system also adds a lot of reply value. Definitely a worthy 
 buy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: racine75
Rating: 6.5
Date: Jan 16, 2008 1:50 am PT
Review:  My first impression after a few minutes spent playing Trauma Center was that I'd acquired the best 
 game I'd ever played on the DS. It focuses on the touch pad all the way and makes a very clever 
 use of it. The interface is really clear, and the tutorial is a real step-by-step integrated directly 
 in the game: a secondary character helps out by telling you what to do while you're operating. 
 Even though the chit-chat of the help gets annoying after some time, it does provide some welcome 
 breathers in some cases where you're struggling with the time limit countdown. The graphics are 
 nice, just on the right side of anime symbolism so as to increase playability.
  
  Unfortunately the difficulty increases very quickly: there's a time limit for every operation, 
 and for some it's near impossible to finish before the deadline. This means you'll find yourself 
 failing the same operation over and over again until you get lucky. This is not the definition 
 of an enjoyable game in my book...
  
  I still like Trauma Center very much, because I believe it's a great match for the DS. I'm just 
 disappointed the designers didn't bother with a customizable difficulty option. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hazzy113
Rating: 5.5
Date: Jan 15, 2008 4:32 pm PT
Review:  The first thing I noticed about this game was that it looks and plays almost like the Phoenix Wright 
 games. Both feature traditional anime character designs, both feature a bumbling protagonist and 
 both are stories about life in two very high profile careers.
  
  Similarities end there though, Trauma center is it's own game for the most part. While the concept 
 does sound fun and entertaining and it is, the games difficulty is so high the average gamer will 
 be chucking their DS across the room.
  
  If you can get past that though you'll find a lot to like. Performing operations can get pretty 
 intense and when you fail (and you will fail) you'll almost feel like you screwed it up in reality.
 
  
  My complaints besides the ridiculous difficulty levels are these: The characters in this game are 
 downright annoying and what's worse is you're stuck with them for good. The writing in it while 
 good just leaves sooo much to be desired. I personally didn't give a crap about the patients or 
 the back stories of these characters one bit and in a game like this that is a fatal flaw. It also 
 gets really repetitive really fast, being bored while playing a video game is unforgivable.
  
  The story also goes a bit paranormal on you at one early point (I won't give anything away) . 
 But suffice it to say it just feels forced, an unnecessary plot development to say the least. It 
 just kind of stunted the whole game for me as this is supposed to be a realistic game that places 
 you in the shoes of a surgeon... what was the point there?
  
  All said it's not a bad game but it needs quite a bit more polish to it. I've never played the 
 Wii version but I imagine it's much better. I'd avoid the DS version. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: terragan
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jan 11, 2008 7:07 pm PT
Review:  This game is one of the top 5 games that i've played on Ds. Trauma Center is about a guy who starts 
 from the beginning and become a doctor. You work on different type of stuff where you cut people 
 open and heal them back to like by taking out glass, tumors, and other stuff. Also you can try 
 do disarm a bomb and other stuff. I haven't beat the game all the way yet so I can't say what all 
 the missions are on the game but i've aleast probably beat most of the game. The game has it's 
 hard times and sometimes it has missions that may take you a while to figure out how to do the 
 mission and other stuff. Also If you want to be a doctor or somethin some time in life this would 
 be a good game also to play when your doing surgery and other stuff. So those are the ideas of 
 why I think you would like this game. I fyou wanna ask questions ask me about it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: laylarox
Rating: 8
Date: Jan 6, 2008 7:02 am PT
Review:  I haven't played this game for that long, but the game shows its true colors at the 4th surgery. 
 This game is awfully fun, and it rocks! The only thing that SOME people would not like about it 
 is the fact that there are some hard surgeries in Trauma Center: Under The Knife. Then you have 
 to keep re-trying over and over. There are also some things in there that just want to make you 
 quit, but then you remember how fun the game is and you just have to keep playing! And if you do 
 quit, you'll find yourself coming back to try again. For example, there was one surgery where I 
 was stuck on. I re-tried like 10 times, but i couldn't get it. So i just didn't play it for about 
 2 days. After that, i just had to get back to the game and try to beat the surgery I was stuck 
 on. I tried a few more times then i got it! But then came the one after it. It took me forever 
 to beat my own record, and just when i thought i won and saved the man, another problem pops up, 
 and i don't save the man = ( . So if your the kind of person that is willing to try over and over 
 again, this is your game and you'll have the best time ever playing Trauma Center: Under The Knife. 
 But if your that kinda person that just quits, don't even think about getting this game, because 
 it'll end up at the back of your drawer covered in dust, or maybe even thrown away. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Bulma75
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 8, 2007 9:40 pm PT
Review:  Lets just get this outta' the way, this game is incredibly difficult - I mean want to throw your 
 DS against the wall because you've tried the same procedure 15+ times and still you're losing your 
 patient hard :P If you don't want or are afraid of a challenge, do NOT pick up this game ) It'll 
 be your loss though, because its very rewarding when you DO save a life :P)
  
  Once you get into the game, start improving your surgical skills, Trauma is an amazing experience 
 that could only be mastered on the DS. Atlus has done a fine job, and this is truly a gem not to 
 be missed. 
  
  Graphics are beautiful, voice acting could have been added but its still all right. The plot line 
 is also exceptional, and will touch you. Characters are likeable, plenty of replay value. Only 
 negatives are lack of multilayer and difficulty (Im on the last boss, and its impossible ;-; lol) 
 
  
  Give this a chance, you won't regret it. A must for any DS owner **not afraid of a hard game in 
 a sea of incredibly easy ones :/ ** 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Will47
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 27, 2007 4:02 pm PT
Review:  Well I am going to do this review the easy way:
  
  Story 9/10: Don't be surprised to see I gave it this high of a score and don't be thinking "How 
 good can a surgeon game storyline be?" well let me tell you "REALY GOOD". It is mainly about biological 
 warfare but that is not the only reason I give it a high score "what else?" you ask, let me tell 
 you, the wonderful indepth characters and there own story lines (but I can't say any more do to 
 mild spoilers)
  
  Graphics 8/10: Yes they could have been better but still this is the DS and I don't see to much 
 room for improvment. The characters all look great and there art is very nice. Now don't think 
 there are any cutscenes, they just put the charactes art up there and have the word under them 
 but with how well the do you would think you are watching a cutscene.
  
  Controls 10/10: Wonderful controls and I don't see how they could do better. You have about 10 
 surgery tools at your use and they are all very well made and how you control system is great!
 
  
  Gameplay 10/10: I don't see room for improvent here it is so nice and smooth. There are NO gliches 
 that you have to worry about. 
  
  Other notes : The missions are about only 5 min. long (yes I know that because they have time limits 
 on them) but don't worry there are about 50 missions and because they are about 5 min. long you 
 can do them about ANY time and they are so fun you will want to do them over and over and over 
 again.
  
  Thank you for reading. I hope I helped you to see that you are looking at one of the very best 
 games for the Nintendo DS. This is my first reveiw so please be nice and give me the benifit of 
 the doubt. (like every body else I would not mind some good points for this review) .
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: JazzySax4559
Rating: 7.5
Date: Nov 27, 2007 1:13 am PT
Review:  When I heard that there was a game that would let you be a surgeon, I was all for it. When I started 
 playing the game, I was intrigued and engulfed for the first hour. But then I kind of became bored 
 with the same scenario over and over and over again. So I tried my best to just beat my previous 
 time and go from there.
  Where it became annoying was that some of the surgeries were so unrealistic that is was difficult 
 to see how to beat it. It took me three weeks to get past one level. Now I'm not God's gift to 
 gaming, but it should not have taken that long to get through one level. So needless to say I was 
 fed up with the game after a while. But to go back and just cut people open and treat, that was 
 great part of the game.
  The characters are sort of blah. The main character is mainly a push over, but of course that means 
 it was intentional. One of the nurses is a pain in the you know where (too bad she couldn't get 
 surgically removed) . All in all the characters were just there for transition than an actual story 
 driver. The graphics are mediocre. Not saying that it is bad, just not anything to shout about. 
 The music, honestly, I had to turn it off. Not bad just, once again, repeat, repeat, repeat. 
 
  The redundancy in this game can sometime be annoying. If you are a patient player... that does 
 not mean a darn thing. Even the most patient players will become annoyed after the constant repeating 
 the same thing and seemingly going no where (I wonder if that is why some people began playing 
 with two stylus for this game, to add some "umph"... check out youtube) . 
  Would I recommend this game? To the right person. Would I play it again? Not on the DS. The WII, 
 possibly. Is it at least a decent game? Yes. I kind of enjoyed it for a while. Then it just became 
 a zzzzzzzz. Last question, is this the type of game that doctors or wannabe doctors would enjoy? 
 I would have to say... HA! I would love to see my physician play this game. He never smiles and 
 he is not exactly patient, but he might have fun. So if you want to buy, have fun and try not to 
 get to annoyed with the reluctant trauma center. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DawnClover
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 20, 2007 9:43 am PT
Review:  I bought this game because of the apparant addictive gameplay, good anime characters and story, 
 and also my love for medical tv shows like House MD or ER. And I was not let down!
  
  01 - STORY ||
  You play as Dr. Derek Stiles (more like Stylus lol) , a newbie doctor performing 
 different surgeries using your NDS's stylus. A new disease called GUILT is spreading faster and 
 only a hand-full of doctors with 'special habilities' (will. not. spoil.) can save us from it! And 
 guess what? You (Derek) are one of them. || 9/10
  
  02 - GAMEPLAY ||
  This is what shines the most through-out the game. You will only use your stylus through the whole 
 game simulation scalpels, syringes, stiches, etc... Anything you could ever think of. I don't know 
 how to explain this very well but you use a little menu on the right to change your instrument 
 and have to perform the surgery before the time runs out always focused on the patients' heart 
 rate. It will be very and I mean VERY frustrating on later levels but hell, it's SO FUN! || 10/10
 
  
  03 - SOUND ||
  The sound was not that memorable though it fitted well in the game (specially some silence parts 
 on the surgeries where you can only hear the heart beat) . Sound effects were overall pretty good 
 on the surgeries. || 8/10
  
  04 - GRAPHICS ||
  Again (this is like the 4rth review I make today and all the 4 games have this) this game has a 
 mix of 2D and 3D elements. The story part will be in anime-like drawings and text while the surgeries 
 are performed on a 3D body (should be more detailed in my opinion and more realistic, but then 
 I reminded myself that kids will be playing this and that would not be a very good idea.) || 8/10
 
  
  05 - LENGTH ||
  Not too short and not too big. I finished in about 5 hours (the main story) and I probably played 
 for more 6 or 7 hours to beat my record times and to play the hidden challenges. There's a lot 
 to do here. || 9/10
  
  06 - REPLAY? ||
  Yes! This game is addictive as hell and you may be done with the story mode fast but the challenge 
 never ends! || 9/10
  
  OVERALL: 9.5
  
  Excelent addictive game.
  Can't wait for the sequel and to buy the Wii remake! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: phyconess
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 23, 2007 9:31 pm PT
Review:  I was first introduced to this game by a friend who had it. As I kept going in the game, it was 
 harder, and keeps getting harder the more I continue. However, the game is a lot of fun. It actually 
 uses a lot of skill. The cut scenes do tend to get annoying sometimes, but I like that this game 
 will allow you to skip through them, unlike some games. The idea behind the game is great, how 
 you get to be a surgeon, and you try to use all of the techniques you can, it's different then 
 a lot of games that I have played before.
  
  Totally worth the money, and the time to play! Great game! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Boondocks123
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 7, 2007 9:45 am PT
Review:  At firsrt I Wondered why I wasted 30 dollars of my money, but It gets better. This game Is pure 
 stylus doctor control which is not a bad thing at all, Actually this game would suck if you had 
 to use buttons . You have every doctor material all the way from lasres to syringes. The only reason 
 this game dosent get a ten is because it was to hard, but it made it way more fun. This game is 
 a must buy for the DS and preetty much my favorite game on DS, so thats it , And just buy it unless 
 you dont like this game then dont buy it 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mmntw27
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 6, 2007 7:49 am PT
Review:  Trauma Center is, indeed, one of my all time favorite DS games. Since I don't have too many DS 
 games, this is one of the ones that always made me happy just to keep coming back and play it.
 
  
  First Impression:
  At first, I thought Trauma Center sounded like quite a stupid game. I wasn't entirely thrilled 
 with the idea of playing a game that you had to operate on patients. But I decided to give it a 
 try, especially after playing Nintendogs, which I thought was going to suck, too.
  
  I was immediatly pulled into the game's story and awsome use of the stylus. This game just fits 
 the DS perfectly and I was so happy to just go through this game.
  
  The stroy revolves around the main character, Derek Stiles (hehe... DS... and Stiles/Stylus...*ahem) . 
 At first, he just operates on regular things, like people getting glass stuck in their arms and 
 tumors. But then the huge factor of the game comes in after a while. An unknown organization is 
 making a virus called GUILT. GUILT comes in all kinds of lovely strands that can kill the human 
 body either slowly or quickly, depending on the strand. Your objective is to stop the GUILT with 
 your array of operating tools, such as scapels, lasers, antibiotic gel, and a few others.
  
  Lasting Impression:
  
  Currently, I'm still playing this just to try to get S rankings 
 in all the missions. It's not an easy task and it will make you want to play the game alot more 
 just to try to get better rankings at the missions, even after you've beaten the game's story mode. 
 There are, however, some things that I didnt' like about the game. For one, there isn't much to 
 do after you HAVE beaten the story mode (trust me, some of the story missions will eat you for 
 supper, spit you out, and laugh at you as it kicks you in the a**, to put it politely) . Sure, there's 
 the challenge mode, but it's just all the games missions you've done already. along with a few 
 extra missions on the side. Still, this game is one of the best, and should not be overlooked by 
 ANY DS owner.
  
  Gameplay: 9.0/10
  An ingenious way to use the DS' stylus and dual screens. This game is near perfect at the execution.
 
  
  Story: 9.0/10
  An awsome story to boot, with virus', operating tools, and zombies (minus the zombies)
  
  Sound: 
 8.0/10
  There's some voice acting here and there when certain things happen in the operations, but I wish 
 some of the sounds were worked out better, Some of the sounds sound like something that would come 
 out of a GBC.
  
  Replay: 8.0/10
  Sure, trying to beat all the missions in S ranking is fun, but there's not too much new after you've 
 beaten the story mode.
  
  Fun Factor: 9.5/10
  An extreamly fun game that will immediatly immerse you into its world.
  
  Last Words:
  Seriously, 
 go buy this game. Now. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Kayos90
Rating: 8.5
Date: Aug 8, 2007 7:28 pm PT
Review:  Trauma Center is a unique game released by Atlus, a game developer which is famous for making anime 
 themed video games, that uses the medical world to draw in new and current video gamers. The basic 
 concept of Trauma Center is that youre a doctor and you heal patients, and a whole lot of them. 
 The way the game works is that youll be given around 10 tools that help you heal patients in various 
 ways and different environments. As the doctor you learn techniques and certain processes in the 
 game so you will be able to use the tools to the fullest. Atlus at first created TC: Under the 
 Knife as a new innovative game for the Nintendo DS. By using the touch screen and the stylus the 
 DS made this game a very simple, fun, and a unique game for players of all ages. By using the stylus 
 you control the tool and suture wounds, spread medicine, and all types of various healing techniques. 
 However, in order to use different tools in an operation you must switch them out by tapping on 
 their avatar, or icon, on the sides of the screen, and then use them. This makes finishing an operation 
 with a high rank very difficult. However, the innovative use of the touch screen is something that 
 makes Trauma Center a very wholesome game.
  On the top screen will be fed your operation time limit which will range from 5 minutes to 10 depending 
 on certain situations. Also displayed on the top screen will be the Operation Score which will 
 determine your rank on the operation and comments from your assistant. The bottom screen displays 
 the actual operation and the vital signs on your patient. If the vitals on the patient reaches 
 zero, the game is over and you must restart. On the left and right sides of the bottom screen the 
 tools for the operation are lined up vertically. These tools range from forceps, scapels, laser, 
 magnifying glass, and much more. The game difficulty is set automatically to one setting; however, 
 for slow players the game will punish you dearly if you wish to get high ranks. The operation itself 
 is made so that its possible to beat for anyone but for players that seek challenges the rank 
 of getting S will suit you well. Ranks are determined by bonus points in an operation, how well 
 you perform a certain technique, how fast you perform the operation, and how many misses you made 
 in an operation. All of these factor into the scoring which will rank you to be a Rookie Doctor, 
 Specialist, Senior Surgeon, Expert Surgeon. Overall the difficulty is set so that nearly anyone 
 can finish the game without many problems, though at times certain operations might be frustrating.
 
  The presentation of the game of music and graphics quality in Under the Knife is actually presented 
 in a way that its a bit of a drama in a doctors life except shown through an anime styled story. 
 The story is told through text, however, the way the character speaks and present themselves in 
 text brings out a great deal of character and personality. While a character is talking in text, 
 the character themselves are shown above the text and present themselves in an emotional state 
 that they are talking like. Such as if a doctor was angry, hed start shouting in text and a picture 
 of him yelling would show up above the text. The characters are, once again mentioned, in an anime 
 style, though its not very finished and the characters dont look dazzling the overall presentation 
 of the characters do the job well of keeping the game together. Even though the story is text based, 
 its very well thought out and goes into a suspense action feeling throughout the whole entire storyline. 
 The music of Under the Knife is presented in a midi style file so it doesnt have great detail 
 in sound, however, the way the music is weaved into certain situations is just fascinating. The 
 music score isnt very diverse but the music fits into every conversation and dialogue of the characters 
 and is also quite catchy. One year after Under the Knife was released for the DS, the Wii would 
 launch soon after, and Atlus took advantage of the Wiis motion sensing abilities and remade Trauma 
 Center into a better game than it DS version. Trauma Center: Second Opinion was a remake of the 
 version Under the Knife, and even though it was a remake this games extra content and polished 
 music graphics and gameplay makes the game worth buying. Trauma Center: Second Opinion does a very 
 well job of making a remake of the version much better than other game companies would. The reason 
 being is that they finished and polished up much of Under the Knifes unsatisfactory factors of 
 the game such as midi music and unfinished character designs on the characters. The gameplay has 
 changed quite a bit to also handle the Wiis separate nun chuck and the one screen gameplay. Unlike 
 the Under the Knife which utilized two screens, the Wii would use one screen therefore Atlus would 
 have to change how the game worked a bit differently. The interface of the game changed by having 
 the time, score, character, and the dialog all shoved into one screen. However, Atlus made a very 
 smooth transition by making the operation section of the game fit in with all of the other minor 
 details on the screen. The dialog of the character and the character who was talking were moved 
 to the bottom right part of the screen and didnt take up much space so that it wouldnt interfere 
 with surgery. The score and time was moved up to the top right corner of the screen and it was 
 an easy way for people to glance up and see the operation time and pointage on the operation. Also 
 the whole idea of selecting a certain tool by pointing with a Wiimote was taken out due to the 
 new Wii nun chuck. All the medical tools were placed on each corner of the polygonal shape of the 
 nun chuck joystick. The tools that represent each point and the tool currently used would show 
 up on the bottom left screen. However, this is for beginning players as players start to memorize 
 where each tool is. Second Opinion therefore gives a better gameplay interface than Under the Knife 
 did by giving easy selection of the tools needed in an operation and having everything on one screen 
 so you dont have to go searching for something a long distance away from the operation screen. 
 The music contains the same tune it did for Under the Knife except Atlus made it into a full mp3 
 file where it doesnt sound like the same instrument playing a music. Rather they made the music 
 more melodic by putting in multiple instruments that would suit the type of music being played. 
 Such as, for a sad music a piano would be played and for a dramatic music a trumpet would be played. 
 The polishing up on these music files gives a greater audio presentation on the game. The game 
 also adds a bit more vocal sounds from the characters in the game and made it sound more emotional 
 in the game rather leaving it a bit monotonous like the previous game. The exciting part about 
 this version of the game is that they extended the game from where the previous game left and continued 
 it with an additional episode. This game therefore gives more operations than it did in Under the 
 Knife. Another very important addition in the game is that it also included difficulty settings 
 so that you can change the difficulty anytime you think an operation is too hard. This option is 
 very useful for new players into the game and helps later on for player who cant handle certain 
 operations.
  Trauma Center takes place in the future where a new full-time surgeon named Derek Stiles begins 
 to work at Hope Hospital. He learns the important values of being a doctor and learns that being 
 a doctor is an even more serious job than he ever thought. However, through a mysterious encounter, 
 Dr. Stiles is engaged with a new virus called GUILT, where the parasite starts harming patients 
 from the inside until he or she dies. With the bio-terrorism out on the loose it seems like Derek 
 has the motivation to stop this GUILT at all costs.
  Both versions of Trauma Center are great games that give gamers a bit of insight into what its 
 like to be in the medical life. The game is very innovative, unique, and challenging in various 
 ways and brings about a new way to play games now. For people who like to accept challenges and 
 find new ways to play, or take full advantage of a gaming system, both versions of this game would 
 be a great addition to a gaming collection. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MavHZero
Rating: 8.3
Date: Aug 5, 2007 4:08 pm PT
Review:  The Nintendo DS is a system that opens many different pathways to game types that would otherwise 
 never work on any format. One of the types of games nobody would've thought viable is one involving 
 surgery. Now there's a little niche in the market, as Atlus have brought Trauma Center: Under the 
 Knife to our hands.
  
  We follow the road of Dr Derek Stiles (DS, well, not totally original!) , a young up and coming 
 surgeon who is in need of guidance, due to the fact he's still a rookie. Before long, he has a 
 new nurse assistant, Angie, and a mysterious new condition to contend with. The story is displayed 
 in chapters and sections, not all sections have operations, but it is rich in plot.
  
  In the actual game, you will be performing many types of surgery, including those with Lacerations 
 (cuts) , dissecting (taking stuff out) , and many others. Each case has its own unique problems, 
 and some new ones arise sometimes, keeping players on their feet at all times. You have many tools 
 which are all nicely explained throughout the first few levels. The game also has a nice feature 
 that allows you to play through levels, without the story. You have to play it once though, which 
 isn't exactly a problem.
  
  The game has its own little jokes that made it in the translated version, even if they weren't 
 in the Japanese version. The main thing I've noticed is that the names of the patients resemble 
 the names from some of the characters in Scrubs. (Kevin Turk, Elliot Cox, etc) This little parody 
 is unusual and for those who like the show, its welcome.
  
  With dedication, the game's main plot can be completed within a few days. Some procedures could 
 take numerous attempts, but generally shouldn't be too difficult, at least in the beginning. After 
 the main story, theres a Seven Deadly Sins scenario, which includes some of the tougher levels 
 from before. There is another scenario after that, which is a hidden extra.
  
  The games visuals are typical anime stills in the story scenes, but in surgery it uses 3D models 
 and pseudo styled parts for the actual inside of the person being operated on. None of these things 
 is likely to make one faint, unless blood is bad for them, which they will, cause there's a lot 
 of it. The games objectives are nicely displayed, and the intense music tracks during surgery really 
 add to the atmosphere of being under pressure.
  
  There is little that is wrong with this game. It is unique in that its one of a kind. Some of the 
 presentation seems dated, but the levels are fun, varied and presented in a really nice way. The 
 extras are just icing on the cake. If you're looking for something a little different, this puzzler 
 is just what the doctor ordered! (I'm sorry, I really wanted to end it like that...) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Ernice
Rating: 7.8
Date: Jul 6, 2007 9:16 pm PT
Review:  Trauma Center brings a very different and refreshing gameplay experience to the DS. it puts you 
 in the shoes of a surgeon and with your stylus, you are able to perform surgical tasks and thus 
 it gives you a sense of you having a healing touch so to speak. Trauma Center makes good use of 
 the stylus in many ways. your handy stylus can become a scapel, an injection needle, a bandage 
 wrap, an anti-infection rub, and a blood drainer all at the same time with just a simple tap of 
 an icon. this helps make the gameplay very smooth although at times also a little frustrating.
 
  
  the stylus motion actions required for each tool is different and suits most of the tools perfectly. 
 although some do seen very trivial and could have been done away with.
  
  surprisingly Trauma Center has quite an engaging storyline that keeps you guessing about what will 
 happen next. and the patients to fix and puzzles that you have to solve tie in with the storyline 
 very well. however there are the certain few procedures that you have to do over and over again 
 which can feel very repetitive. the only difference being the level of difficulty of each procedure. 
 this can really spoil the fun for you if you are the kind that just wants to move on to something 
 new.
  
  another downside to this game is that it lacks the replayability. once you're done with it, theres 
 no real urge or want to playthrough it again. they do have other harder procedures to unlock but 
 its not very different from what you have already gone through once you have finished the game.
 
  
  and please do take note that this is an extremely extremely difficult game. its difficult not just 
 cos of the difficulty setting, but its also made difficult due to the pinpoint accuracy they expect 
 you to achieve with a pretty insensitive stylus accuracy. you will find yourself many a times cutting 
 or poking the victim unintentionally due to the stylus being bigger than the mark you are suppose 
 to cut or pull out. and this can be very frustrating. besides the repetition, the difficulty of 
 the game, and the quite frustrating stylus accuracy, you will find something enjoyable in Trauma 
 Center when you first pick it up and play. it brings something new to the plate so to speak. do 
 give it a try but you may want to consider renting it first or buying it at a sale. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Roosnurm
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jun 19, 2007 12:17 am PT
Review:  The gameplay is great and Trauma Center does not disappoint in the least. There are a number of 
 operation objects to choose from, like a simple knife to make cuts, but also a laser, a magnifying 
 glass and stuff to sew up wounds. Most of the times a certain patient requires different combinations 
 of these objects, and while in the beginning this is certainly manageable, in the later missions 
 you have to do it without someone telling you how it works and in a smaller time limit. This increase 
 of difficulty begins fairly early in the game. Trauma Center is basically a collection of similar 
 mini-games, but because of the presentation it really feels like a whole package and it actually 
 makes you feel like a surgeon. There is a Challenge Mode as well, in which you can choose the missions 
 you've played through individually and try to complete them with a better rating. It is difficult 
 to improve, because it isn't very clear what actions cause particular scores, so it's also difficult 
 to find out what subtle things you don't do quite right. The graphics are perfect for the game, 
 making a strange contrast with the nature of Trauma Center. Cutting out cancer isn't exactly everyone's 
 favourite vision in the early morning. Trauma Center is all about puzzling, not about realistic 
 views on the health sector. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: synninviemaa
Rating: 8.7
Date: Jun 3, 2007 11:26 pm PT
Review:  OK THIS IS MY FIRST REVIEW SINCE I GOT TO GAMESPOT. I THINK TRAUMA CENTER IS ONE OF THOSE GAMES 
 WHICH ARE EASY TO UNDERSTAND BUT NOT SO EASY TO BEAT. I'VE ALREADY PASSED THE BASIC MISSIONS, BUT 
 I CAN&acute; T MASTER THE X MISSIONS YET. I WON'T LEAVE IT UNTIL I GET AT LEAST AN A ON EACH SURGERY. 
 AT FIRST I THOUGHT THAT IT WOULD BE SOOO BORING BUT I WAS TOTALLY WRONG WHEN I STARTED PLAYING, 
 I TOTALLY IMMERSED MORE AND MORE WITH EACH SURGERY. IF YOU WANT AN ADICTIVE GAME WITH ADICTIVE 
 GAMEPLAY AND HISTORY, THIS IS YOUR CHOICE. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MicahChua
Rating: 7.7
Date: May 14, 2007 1:50 am PT
Review:  Remember Operation? Remember how fun that was? Why was it fun? Because it tested your skill, how 
 steady you could keep your hand as you tweezed bits out of holes without touching the edges. Trauma 
 Centre is more or less the same thingwell, in the fact that you play doctor and some level of 
 skill is involved. Its a good idea that is well executed in most respects particularly in how 
 it adapts the surgical premise with the puzzle genre. The ending product is a game that is interesting 
 on paper and just as interesting to play and a good example of the unique innovation that makes 
 the DS the better choice of handheld consoles.
  
  The name of the game is skill. How crafty, quick and nimble you can be with your stylus and how 
 fast you can think. The game largely runs on a time limit so about 90% of the time you play will 
 be under tremendous pressure- wherein a potential turn-off lies. This game can and will cause stress. 
 If you consider yourself clumsy with your fingers or even impatient then perhaps this game isnt 
 for you. For the rest of you, consider it a welcome change to hear your own heartbeat speed up 
 and see your own DS close in centimetres from your face for the mere sake of an operation that 
 doesnt even exist outside pixels. In this respect, the doctor vibes are well maintained, right 
 down to the apt simulation of pressure youd imagine your surgeon felt when he was removing your 
 pancreas.
  
  The game never really falls into repetition, commendable in a puzzle game. Youll be operating 
 on different body parts, fighting different illnesses which require different methods. The setting 
 may even change sometimes during the games story. One level will have you operating during some 
 turbulence on a plane and another even has you operating on an inanimate object. In effect, you 
 never play the same level twice which is nice to see.
  
  Perhaps the worst thing about Trauma Centre is its occasional relentless and frustrating difficulty. 
 Some levels are just too hard for their own good and may even drive you to give up entirely. The 
 aforementioned side-effect of stress helps nothing in this respect. Paying (AU) $60 for something 
 youre going to give up on and slide back on the shelf may not be an attractive prospect for most 
 gamers. While Trauma Centre isnt exactly the most fun youll have with video games all year, it 
 does present a profound simulation that cant really be done on any other console except Nintendo. 
 While the difficulty may threaten how long or how enjoyable a time you had with it, anything that 
 has you feeling vibrant emotions outside the virtual world whether it be distress or relief, has 
 to be something special. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: exocel
Rating: 7.8
Date: May 8, 2007 9:36 pm PT
Review:  im of two minds about this game, on one hnd its origional and fun, but on the other. well on the 
 other its not.
  When looking for a ds game its generally a rule that if its made to fit the stylus it'll rock, 
 if not its either a port or just unimaginative, lukcily this gmae was made for the ds and could 
 not be done on anything else but a wii. You play rookie surgeon derek styles as he rises to the 
 ranks of master surgeon, cutting people open, tearing ,slicing and sucking stuff out and then seweing 
 them up again. right off the bat this leads to many posible ways to use the ds but unfortunatly 
 it isnt implemented as well as it could, nay, should have been.
  bascially you use the stylus like a pen to do stuff, thats it, the microphone isnt implemented 
 like in pheonixx wirght, the dual screens serve no purpose, unlike hotel dusk, you have the bottom 
 screen to slice and dice ,and to be honest it isnt that well done, it can feel... slippery to a 
 point and using syringes can be a problem if you run out of actual touch screen to pull the syringes 
 plunger up with. little details like this can cost prescious moments in a game were you literally 
 have someone elses life in your hadns as you preform surgery on them, and being left handed an 
 actually screw up with some missions, like pulling glass out of a wound for example.
  that said it is unusual and imagintive, this seems like one of the games that 7 years ago would 
 have never left japan, you draw in a zigzag line to stich, rub the screen to massage a skin graft 
 onto an organ ect.
  this is all really fun stuff i have to say, finishing your operation with the patients pulse steady 
 and getting an S rank is really rewarding , and after you stop playing you cant help but think 
 i wasnt shooting some generic soldier, or moveing blocks, i just performed an apendectomy... that 
 rocks 
  and that is the basic appeal of this game, the story is easily forgettable, the gameplay and experience 
 however is not.
  Like it or hate it this is a unique and memorable ,and lengthy gameing experience, so whilst this 
 may have its faults the gameplay really is this games strongsuit.
  Graphics wise... well its a lot less appealing the top screen is only used for text and 2d anime 
 representations of the doctors, with 3 different poses for expressions, all of which look like 
 grainy like something out of a cheap japanese dating sim and whilst in keeping with the japanese 
 vibe the game gives off this is all very boring stuff, in fact you can press select to skim the 
 whole story and go from surgery to surgery, so i guess the developers didnt find this portion fo 
 the game to fun either.
  sound wise theres not much at all, i did like how the nurse would occaisionally speak, theres nothing 
 to make you appreciate how far weve come since those chunky gray gameboys with the red buttons 
 when your less than an inch thick ds lite says were ready dr. stiles in prefectly audible english 
 like theres actually a nurse in the room helping during the surgery, this was a nice touch, however 
 the rest of the sound was totally forgettable.
  value wise there is some replayablility, if only for this being the only game of its kind , at 
 least in the west, however its all very repetitive and many gamers who prefe rthere games to be 
 more action orientated may not be compelled to comeback for a replay.
  my viewhowever is a throughaly enjoyable and unique gameing experience, though slightly marred 
 by basic contrls outside the stylus and a sub par story and presentation, however it has a unique 
 charm that keeps me playing so i can recommend this game for ds owners, however pheonix wright 
 and hotel dusk may be preffered if this doesnt sound like your thing.
  
  so in all not a great game but good enough to get a 7.8 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DiabeticDood
Rating: 8.6
Date: Apr 26, 2007 5:55 pm PT
Review:  Trauma Center in the ideal DS game taking advantage of the DS touch screen and a unique gameplay 
 that doesnt get to old. Youre a surgeon and you must perform surgery. The surgeries you perform 
 get harder and harder. With a virus called GUILT it starts to become harder to do your missions. 
 You actually feel like youre doing surgery at times. Now this game isnt exactly meant for a bumpy 
 car ride. If youre handling the knife and your car hits a bump its not gonna be the best result 
 every time. With the top screen being where the story takes place with simple anime graphics and 
 an RPG feel to the text its fun to read through the story. When performing surgery on the bottom 
 screen the top screen shows you lovely assistant who will give hints from time to time so dont 
 forget to look. With good sounds that sound pretty real its fun to keep the sound on. I picked 
 this game up for only 25 bucks and its not a bad price. I couldnt see myself actually playing 
 through the full entire game but the great part is that you can pick surgeries you have performed 
 and try to get a better grade on it. So if youre looking for a DS game that really uses the touch 
 screen this is a defiant buy! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: seanwalsh750
Rating: 9.3
Date: Apr 16, 2007 4:01 am PT
Review:  Amazing depth to the story and the nurse is very sexy as well. The operation are hard, but not 
 to the point that you want to throw the DS out of the window, I like the Manga style graphics and 
 just the way the game is put together. The operations are interesting and while you may just get 
 through an operation by the skin of your teeth, it may take hours of practice before you actually 
 get an S rank on it in the Challenge mode. The Challenge mode was a great idea byt the designers, 
 its great to go back to your favourite operations and try to do better on them.
  
  Unfortunately, though, I do believe that Cybil Myers could have been omitted from the game- she 
 is clearly a lesbian ( I mean come on, ' The Iron Vixen')
  and I do not approve of homosexuals or their activities. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SaxxyGamer18
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jun 6, 2007 4:14 pm PT
Review:  The Good: Very innovative concept; offers a stiff challenge; well executed.
  
  The Bad: Controls aren't always perfect; isn't especially long; presentation could have been nicer.
 
  
  Trauma Center: Under the Knife has everything going for it: innovative controls, a unique premise, 
 and just the right platform to make it all happen. In it, you take control of Derek Stiles, a surgeon 
 who has just started his formal practice. He will have many triumphs and failures, and there is 
 a lot of challenge to be had here.
  
  Eventually, Dr. Stiles encounters the man-made GUILT virus, which has many manifestations and can 
 cause a lot of anguish to the average player. In fact, Trauma Center's difficulty level seems a 
 tad bit too high, as it gets awfully frustrating later on.
  
  Though the controls are great and perfectly suited to the gameplay, they could certainly use some 
 tweaking. The magnifier doesn't work quite right, and sometimes it's a little unclear whether your 
 actions will have the desired effect. Also, sometimes it's hard to tell what needs to be done in 
 an operation, and even your whiney nurse doesn't help.
  
  The graphics are clean and get the job done, but really don't do anything impressive. The soundtrack, 
 while great, is infrequent, and more voice acting would have been appreciated.
  
  For one of the most original games ever made, Trauma Center does a lot right. If you're in the 
 mood for a serious challenge and something new, it doesn't get much better than this. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Matrix121
Rating: 8
Date: Mar 20, 2007 7:29 pm PT
Review:  Overall, Trauma Center: Under The Knife is a great game. Who doesn't want to perform emergency 
 situations once in their life? With this game, that's exactly what you can do. The gameplay is 
 awesome, giving surgery to someone in a terrible car crash, diffusing a bomb, removing tumors, 
 and extracting a new disease going around the world called G. U. I. L. T. The added X-Missions give 
 you a real challenge, being the hardest challenges in the game, optional of course. The gameplay 
 can get a little repetitive after a while, removing too much GUILT, but this is still a great game 
 which I would recommend to anyone. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Rock231992
Rating: 8.3
Date: Mar 15, 2007 9:46 am PT
Review:  Too hard when it comes to the under the knife level I just can not do it. But I will soon. {I hope} The 
 game play of it is good and the graphics is really good too from the year it was out. If you think 
 it looks good to get then get now. Of www. play. com . {If they have it?} because it is cheap there. If 
 it is not  
 go to game or game station at norwich. The best part of the game is where you cut up the people 
 and look in the insides of them it is so cool. The one on the wii looks so cool i want that one. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: truk1600
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 14, 2007 12:54 pm PT
Review:  This game is amazing!!!
  from the great graphics to the soung the the hardness of the game and the overall asowemness of 
 cutting people open!
  a bit hard to ge the tools down and what to do some times, but this is a great game and you should 
 buy it!
  if you like games whare you need to beat the clock or be fast with your hands this is a game for 
 you.
  The only this game is made posibale is the DS's touch screen, without that this game would be alot 
 harder to play.
  and its worth the $30 price-tag to play so get up and buy this game if you you like off the wall 
 games. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: benleslie5
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 13, 2007 3:22 pm PT
Review:  Blood everywhere fetch me a scapel we need to open his body.
  Under the Knife is the first game to have oparations and surgerys to save peoples life's if you 
 ever wanted to be a doctor or surgen very clever for a DS game.
  Gameplay is all based on the touch screen and there are many tools that you will be using and alot 
 of problem solving but you will get some help in the game. But this game can be hard because you 
 got 10 mintues and not to screw up the surgey if you do you failed to save this person life.
  The story can take up to 5 hours or more but definendly all on Anime including the charcters, great 
 soundtrack and lots of Blood. Thats right Blood everywhere and cutting people up which is sweet 
 this is a game you wanna get if you have a DS. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Panta
Rating: 8.2
Date: Feb 12, 2007 3:06 am PT
Review:  The game is undescribable. When I began playing this game, I never even had a bleak understanding 
 of these type of role playing story page flipper games, but this one was a great introduction for 
 me into the genre. To tell you the truth, I didn't even want to buy this game, because I thought 
 it would be boring and all reading, but the thing is... I wasn't entirely wrong. The reading is 
 there, but it is exciting and grasping like a good book. The surgery part is probably the best. 
 The precision needed and the skills involved in this game as it builds up is remarkable. I could 
 feel my own heart pounding after each surgery, since I usually make close calls. The mechanics 
 of this game is clearly well thought out of and could easily been one of the most inspirational 
 games I've played so far. The downer part of this game is probably the difficulty. I don't want 
 to hear any of that oh you just suck rant from all the other fans... the truth is, this game is 
 really difficult. There were a few points when I was ready to give up due to the difficulty... 
 but the thing was that... due to the addictive nature of this game... I just couldn't.
  
  To any buyers out there who are thinking about purchasing this early DS game, give it a try. It's 
 totally worth your cash if you are looking for a fun puzzle game. It's probably hard to find this 
 now in stores, so get out there and buy it if you are seriously thinking about purchasing this 
 masterpiece. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Webblaster619
Rating: 8.2
Date: Jan 30, 2007 8:28 am PT
Review:  Ever dream of being a doctor, well here's your chance. Trauma center lets you take a new way to 
 the DS. Use the touch screen to start operations and save the patients from tumours, wounds and 
 diseases by useing ten medical tools. Laser, antibiotic gel, drain, forceps, your  
 and bandages. The story begins in 2018 where you begin at Hope Hospital. You will play a doctor 
 named Derek Stiles who just completed his residency and joins the Hope Hospital surgical team to 
 start his first operation. You will go around each operation and you will follow each storyline 
 telling that it's more then operating but the things that will come. But something is not right 
 a new disease is not found out and no one has a clue what it is. Only little is known about this 
 new disease and rumour has it that this disease might be the first biological weapon used for medical 
 terrorism. They call it GUILT {a gangliated utrophin immuno latency toxin) . While Dr. Stiles is 
 operating something just happend when he tried to save a patient when his heart was wounded. He 
 started to think of a star then out of nowhere he went faster and stitched the patient's wound 
 in a spilt second. He later found out that he had the Healing touch - an ancient greek god of medicine. 
 Does Dr. Stiles have what it takes to cure a disease like GUILT ,that they don't know how to treat 
 properly? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DidiCardoso
Rating: 8.8
Date: Jan 23, 2007 11:10 am PT
Review:  Trauma Center: Under The Knife was originally released in October 2005, and it was a hit then. 
 So much in fact, that it has been re-released in the Fall of 2006. Strangely enough, I only made 
 my first contact with Trauma Center after having a Wii, and found it difficult to play since I 
 have a pretty shaky hand. It also made me think that the DS version would have been much better 
 and easier to control.
  
  Trauma Center: Under The Knife (a European version, at that) was one of our Christmas presents 
 and it's been a hit ever since we took it out of its wrapper. Even my mom (a nurse) and a cousin 
 of mine (a paramedic) have had their fun with it during the holiday season.
  
  Under The Knife takes place in the year 2018. You play as Dr. Derek Stiles, a young surgeon at 
 the beginning of his career. Through the contact with patients and other medical staff, as well 
 as surgical procedures, the player experiences the drama of saving lives and leaning new medical 
 techniques.
  
  But as the story advances, you also find out that there is a new biological weapon spreading disease 
 as if it were the new plague. This disease is called GUILT (Gangliated Utrophin Immuno Latency 
 Toxin) and the parasites infecting a human body are capable of killing quickly and painfully. There 
 are different types of GUILT and they will make your job as a surgeon a lot harder to deal with.
 
  
  At the beginning of each stage, vital information from key characters tells you what to expect 
 from each surgery. As your stylus becomes everything from a scalpel to a drain, forceps, laser, 
 ultrasound or syringe, operations become more and more delicate.
  
  The game progresses requiring you to learn and memorize previously used simple procedures and little 
 by little introducing a new tool or challenge. These challenges include turbulence while operating 
 on a plane, different strands of GUILT with unpredictable effects, cardiac arrest, hemorrhage and 
 more.
  
  At the end of each stage you are awarded a score and a rank (S being the highest) , depending on 
 how well you've done, how quickly you finished the surgery and how many times you missed a procedure.
 
  
  From removing shards of glass to burning tumors with a laser, doing research puzzles or disarming 
 a bomb, your job as a surgeon is never boring and always stressful. It does get a bit frustrating 
 in some stages though. While the touch-screen controls are easy to use, when the time limit is 
 short and there's little margin of error for mistakes, precision is a must. For example, I lost 
 count of how many times I repeated the bomb stage. The very last part of disarming the bomb included 
 a series of red and white wires close together. The purpose is to cut the red and not touch the 
 white. But because of my shakiness, I had a really hard time being quick enough with it.
  
  Aside from a bit of trouble using the ultrasound to magnify (the control wasn't too responsive, 
 particularly in the bomb and throat stages) , the game is very easy to pick up and play. And if 
 medical terminology makes you uneasy, the manual even has a little glossary for you.
  
  In the end, Trauma Center: Under the Knife is a must-have for any DS owner. It's innovative, the 
 theme is original, makes great use of the stylus in creative ways and the story is really good 
 and well-written.
  
  I'd recommend it to aspiring doctors/surgeons and everyone else who is just looking for something 
 original and challenging to play. And operating on GUILT is challenging enough! Trust me, I'm a 
 surgeon after all... ;) Review text part of Grrlgamer. com. Full text, screenshots and mini-guide 
 at http://www. grrlgamer. com/review. php? g=traumacenterutk 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Solidsnake13_2
Rating: 9.8
Date: Jan 14, 2007 10:18 pm PT
Review:  This game has a good mix in between the shows House M. D. and E. R. If you love those two shows then 
 you will love this game. This game is very hard to start off. I mean it is hard. Anyways you play 
 as a Medical Surgen named Doctor Derk Stiles. Who is like Doctor House himself very funny but very 
 serious when it comes down saving a patients life. You perform all sorts of surgical operations. 
 Like tumor removels, cardack arrest and all that good stuff you see on House and E. R. You must 
 do everything that a real doctor will do to save someone's life. The game has a good story which 
 have a sorta style like an Hopstal Opera show. But its very good cause the characters get really 
 into the whole situation and you'll be like watching an opera show or something. Or mybe an episode 
 of House or E. R. But anyways you should buy this game if you want to become a doctor, you want 
 to be a surgon, or if you just like the shows House or E. R. I really enjoy this game and I hope 
 that some who reads this review will go out and try it for yourself. Graphics are really good, 
 the blood effects and the medical stuff looks really good. Sound is great when you use all the 
 medical tools it sounds like you are actually using them. Gameplay is hard, but you can get the 
 hand of it when you play the game over and over and over game to hand of it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ZeNMaStEr206
Rating: 8.3
Date: Jan 2, 2007 10:12 pm PT
Review:  Trauma Center Under the Knife puts you in the role of a young doctor named Derek who battles the 
 evil and unknown deadly disease known as GUILT (Gangliated Utrophin Immuno Latency Toxin) which 
 threatens mankind. This disease is very deadly and threatens all of mankind (at this time AIDS 
 &amp; Cancer has been cured so you can imagine what GUILT has on the world) Using your stylus you 
 can stitch patients up, give em shots, and all sorts of cool medical stuff, only with the healing 
 touch will you be able to cure GUILT. This game is immersive as it puts you in the mood and zone 
 for nonstop adrenaline rush when you are racing against the clock to save this patients life. I 
 did have a problem with the game's graphics and sound as they were not what was expected to be 
 up to my standards. The cutscenes are cartoony and look like anime-like characters which is sort 
 of cool. Overall I give this game an 8.4 out of 10.0 - GREAT GAME! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: NightLike
Rating: 8.9
Date: Jan 1, 2007 1:30 pm PT
Review:  At first i thought Dr. Stiles was kind of a nobody until i realized hes actually quite a special 
 being... This game has a lot to offer hear me out. I don't like Dr's and i don't like the concept 
 of this game but the story line is concrete! Its a brilliant tale on how a man and his assistant 
 travel and save the world from what appears to be a incurable disease and coming out on top with 
 your unique and special abilities.
  
  I think though that this game can be misleading at times, making you do over the surgery more then 
 a fair amount of times... but hey its great practice for your next surgery... This game is a great 
 game though its the story youve been looking for and the thrill you haven't been able to find 
 trust me, great story line, great characters, and great ambition towards this game.
  
  Id recommend this game to people who like a good challenge that keeps you in the zone throwout 
 the game, people who like nice story lines, but to be more specific someone who wants another classic 
 in there DS Game inventory. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DS-man
Rating: 9.4
Date: Dec 27, 2006 10:30 am PT
Review:  GOOD- Brilliant story; well wrote with perfect dailog; exstreamly fast gameplay keeps you coming 
 back; The drama is so stroung it feels like your accualy there in the OR; Great music will get 
 you into the game; uses the styles with perfect gameplay; Cool, intresting casts; tons of oporations 
 from removing glass, removing tumors and heal wondes; i could go on and on
  
  BAD- Rock solid to beat; Abit to short
  
  GAMEPLAY:
  You play as Doctor Derek Stailes, its 
 based in 2018 and desiges like Cancer ect has been treated with a new cure, but a new virus is 
 out and its spreading called GUILT (Gangliated Utrophin Immuno Latency) and its your job to get 
 rushed into O. R, Put on some Scrubs, and cure this virus befor its too late, this is a great unqiue 
 gameplay found on no other consols, use the styles to cut open a patiant or stick in a needle and 
 stictch him, rub his heart to increse Vital Points, Speacking of which, Vital points is what keeps 
 them alive, if a VP reaches 0 then they die!, so you must heal them befor that happens, but if 
 you not carefull it'll drop even faster, so you need to be very fast and very accurate, so you 
 need quick reflexes, sturdy hands and a perfect eye, this is what makes the gameplay awesome!!, 
 its very fast pastes and you always do a *Sigh* at the end of the oporation, thats how deep this 
 game can be, now we know what realy doctors are like, and give them respect for it!!
  
  GRAPHICS:
  The graphics are brilliant, there is'nt any cineamatic cut sceanse but insted there 
 cut out heads and spech texts undernithe, so if you like this kindda stuff, then good for you, 
 if not..... still get it cos its awesome!!, there well drawn and its like an Anime style drawing!, 
 who does'nt like anime?. during the oporations the bodies are 3D and they look great!! perffectly 
 animated and sturdy, not bad for the DS!
  
  SOUND:
  This game does'nt feature any voice acting, well it does alittle bit, but when they do, its pretty 
 good, they'll say somthing like Good work Dr. Stailes or Get Ready ect, other than that its all 
 text text and more text, but its well writen and very intresting, it tells a very deep story thats 
 very dramatic and pulls you into it, along with the gameplay its..... the best!
  
  OVERALL:
  Listen to me... This. Is. The. Best. DS. Game....... purly! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gameranker319
Rating: 9.1
Date: Dec 27, 2006 6:15 am PT
Review:  This is one of those games that do not always get the respect it deserves. I am not a person that 
 gets easily impressed by games like this, but this game is just that fun. Using tools to cure the 
 problem with the timer going down every second, while the victim is loosing conscious. The game 
 mostly is about how fast and how accurate you work on the patient. After reading the description 
 of the game I honestly thought this game would be really hard, but it is not really that hard at 
 all once you get the hang of things. Overall this game is a must have for any Nintendo ds collection. 
 If you like puzzle type of games and are not afraid to try new games, then pick this game up and 
 try it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: chickensrcul
Rating: 9.1
Date: Dec 20, 2006 7:32 pm PT
Review:  There are many good and bad things about this game. For one it is awesome in gameplay and I would 
 highly recommend it to a not-so-queasy gamer such as myself. In some parts of the game it is almost 
 too hard. In some levels, too easy. Heck, it took me almost 13 tries for one level! But anyways, 
 the storymode is too short. Took me about 1-2 weeks too beat the game. When I did beat it, it was 
 like... what do I do now? The sound, not all that great. It almost got kind of annoying, but the 
 gameplay made up for that. The graphics were definitely Japanese (you can tell by the hair) . There 
 were a few kinks here and there, but other than that it's a good game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ntfx
Rating: 7.3
Date: Dec 18, 2006 8:25 am PT
Review:  I got this game with my black Nintendo DS Lite, a release which id been looking forward to getting 
 my hands on since i saw the pre-release screenshots.
  
  While one can only wonder if this is a modern remake of the board game Operation , it still remains 
 as fun as the game we played as kids.
  
  While the game does indeed bring a lot of new ideas, and extensive use of the Nintendo DS Touch 
 screen, it also has a few minor annoyances that tend to be more of a pain than a fault with the 
 game.
  
  The graphics are quite good on the DS, although most of it is achieved through anime style cartoon 
 cut scenes, and story dialogue.
  
  Some of the missions are incredibly hard without proper intuition on what your supposed to do, 
 so can leave a slight guessing game going on at times. Sometimes I wish that annoying nurse would 
 concentrate more on being informative instead of just downright annoying and bossy. Which leads 
 me to my next point...
  
  A MAJOR annoyance in the game is the fact that you can't disable that annoying nurse, and your 
 time keeps ticking down as she talks, Quite often what she says is irrelevant and pointless. So 
 I find myself constantly clicking fast on the touch screen so that she goes away.
  
  The touch screen is great for performing the operations, but It sometimes it doesn't follow the 
 exact pattern that you do things, ie: stiching up a patient, it will follow the general path but 
 not as you had drawn it. Leading to some quite clumsy patch up jobs.
  
  Other than that, great game, which will sometimes frustrate you when you have to keep doing the 
 same operation over and over when you fail. But it's all in good fun.
  
  Worth a purchase. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: darkcellblack
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 10, 2006 7:28 pm PT
Review:  Trauma Center: Under The Knife; the best... wait what genre is it?
  
  Who cares! This game was made perfectly, for the perfect system. The game where you play as Doctor 
 Stiles who has an amazing healing touch ability that is apparently rare in doctors. The game gives 
 you a good amount of tools at your disposal to help cure diseases or wounds your patient may have. 
 Not only patients, but sometimes medical terrorism is of the essence, and they plant a bomb right 
 smack in the middle of the building. Luckily, one of the chicks dated a guy from the bomb squad...
 
  
  This is just one of those games, where if, you don't have it; Why even have a Nintendo DS? You 
 have no other options BUT to use the stylus, and why wouldn't you use it? This game is not a game 
 for the faint of heart. I will say it, this game is WAY hard, and extremly pulse pounding. The 
 only downside to owning this game, is that; it is highly unprobable that you will be a succsessful 
 doctor, if your in a moving vehicle.
  
  Graphics-10
  Gameplay-10
  Sound-10
  Value-10
  Tilt-10
  
  Awesome game. Get it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Childeater10
Rating: 9.3
Date: Dec 9, 2006 1:49 am PT
Review:  It's amazing how addictive a game about doing operations on people is. Starting out and being thrown 
 into this dramatic soap opera like Grey anatomy. The first few operations are like tutorials, teaching 
 you all the tools and how to operate them. After that your kind of thrown into the field. I admit 
 I felt confident on the next operation. But then all these things go wrong, and you have a time 
 limit. plus adding the fact that you have this Nurse who either helps you or complains about you.
 
  It really build up alot of tension and it add's a sense that you really are this Dr trying to 
 save lives.
  
  It's extremely addictive. And it's alot of fun to play. I can't put it down. Although some of the 
 later missions it becomes kind of hard to figure out what to do, but if you keep at it you will 
 get it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: babugunit
Rating: 8.3
Date: Dec 8, 2006 5:42 pm PT
Review:  This was the first game i picked up for the DS, mostly to test out the stylus, what i got was 1) 
 a very rare game and 2) a very scratched up touch screen. This is one of the most addictive and 
 time-consuming game i've ever played. In this game you play as Dr. Stiles, a young doctor who performs 
 many operations with his young nurse Angie. The story follows Dr, Stiles career during an out break 
 of GUILT (very bad, fake diseases) . The story consists mainly of medical drama and is presented 
 in an anime form that is very easy on the eyes. The graphics in the game are 3-d. They aren't outstanding, 
 but they get the job done. The sound is also decent, but the small amount of voice-acting that 
 was in the game is very annoying. The music is tense and very catchy.
  
  The gameplay aspect is where this game shines. Your stylus serves as your medical tools. And with 
 it you will be able to incise, suture, drain, and laser pathogens. During an operation the tools 
 you can use will appear to the side. Just click on the tool and do the associated movement with 
 the stylus and soon you'll be feeling like a real doctor. Eventually you'll start moving faster 
 with the stylus, but you wont realize it until you let someone who never played the game before 
 play it. The only bad thing about it is that the difficulty is sporadic. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cameronrosen
Rating: 7.3
Date: Dec 4, 2006 7:42 pm PT
Review:  very fun, very fast paced but with little instructions so you'll have to figure most of the operations 
 on your own which can make some harder levels even more difficult. The sound is altogether pointless. 
 In the game you almost never hear the sound or its just strange annoying sounds. The game play 
 is whats worth your money. As stated in the beginning its very fun and fast, the bad part is that 
 there is little instructions and it gets old somewhat fast. It can be fun for a little to pretend 
 you're the real doctor your mom always hoped you would be. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Bloodzombie77
Rating: 8.1
Date: Nov 22, 2006 8:20 pm PT
Review:  This game was one of the reasons I bought a DS. It's so different and interesting from the usual 
 gaming that's come across lately.
  
  Trauma Center takes place in a hospital (obviously) , where you have to use your stylus skills to 
 save people's lives, and they get surprisingly in-depth with these surgeries. You're not just cutting 
 people up and stitching them back together, you're performing actual procedures that are about 
 as real as the DS can make it. You have to perform the surgeries while keeping their vitals stable, 
 more often than not doing two, three, or sometimes up to six tasks at once, maybe more in the later 
 surgeries (current play time is about 4 hours for me, so I still have a ways to go) . Granted, skill 
 at this game wil NOT make you surgeon material, it will pay off if you are good and steady with 
 the stylus.
  
  If you find yourself really starting to hack people up, you're probably new to using the stylus. 
 I'd highly recommend playing a few other DS titles and getting the hang of the stylus before trying 
 this game out, because after a few operations, your hand will hurt.
  
  Also, this game is QUITE a challenge, so be ready to get pissed at it more than once. But if you 
 like very unique titles and are trying to stray away from the usual gaming for a while, this game 
 will scratch that itch. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Tomayo
Rating: 8.3
Date: Nov 17, 2006 7:12 pm PT
Review:  This game is truly addicting and once u start you just cant stop.... well until you actually beat 
 story mode. The game is another great innovation for the nintendo DS. The Stylus used as many diffrent 
 surgical tools gives the player a sense and feel for the game instead of pointless button mashing 
 and frustration.
  
  With many challenges, and the extreme difficulty on certain operations, it makes this a great game 
 for the ones that love to think. The graphics are good and music makes the operation more dramatic, 
 and the even the little clips of the nurse dropping lines such as DOCTOR! makes the gameplay much 
 more enjoyable. Not only is the game itself great but the Show Off Value Of this game is invaluable. 
 Once you show it to freinds and other DS players they instantly ask where can i get the game? it 
 makes this game even more high demand with them due to the limited stock gamestores have. The only 
 downside about this game is once you've completed story mode. the challenges seem to get more and 
 more boring. there isint much replay value. but for what its worth the game is amazing for the 
 story. And remember WASH your hands! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TekkenMaster606
Rating: 8.4
Date: Jan 16, 2007 2:34 am PT
Review:  The puzzles are fun and challenging, and the graphical elements of the surgery really shine. The 
 difficulty is pretty high for a Nintendo DS game, and you will be attempting the same puzzles over 
 and over. The final bandaging is the worst part for me, but maybe it's because this game isn't 
 very left-handed friendly. The story is enough to keep your attention but it's nothing special. 
 The top screen graphics are your usual Japanese art, drawn images with text bubbles. If you want 
 to try something different and are willing to look for this game around town, it's great entertainment 
 for the DS. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: smithguy1234
Rating: 8.3
Date: Oct 20, 2006 2:03 pm PT
Review:  GAMEPLAY: In Trauma Center: Under the Knife you live in a world that has concured AIDS and Cancer. 
 You take the role of a Docter named Derek Stiles who is a rookie Docter in training. As the story 
 progresses you get a new nurse and you become a full fleged Docter and join a team who is trying 
 to concure a new desiese call GUILT. GUILT is a small paracite that gets into a persons body and 
 slowly (and painfully from whats in the game) rips out your stomach and other insides. The gameplay 
 is very unique making you use the stylis alone which isent nessecarly a bad thing. You play just 
 like a real Docter in this one and anyone who has trouble looking at blood wont have to worry about 
 this one because of its graphics. Everyone looks like they just poped out of some kind of anime 
 and only in the game they are 3-D and you only see the patient. Mostly in every one of the missions 
 you clean the wound with some kind of green gel thats sopposed to be a really strong medicen that 
 can even completly heal small wounds. After you do that you poke the scalple on the side of the 
 screen and cut into the selected area. Next you use your other tools to save the life of your patient. 
 Every patient has a time limit that is there vitels which is there willing to live. you can put 
 this up anytime with a withdraw of some other green goop and enject it into them. This boosts there 
 vitals.
  
  GRAPHICS: The graphics are ok. There good to look at and you reconize all of the orgens in the 
 body without all the blood.
  
  SOUND: The game uses a type of music that fills you with suspence making you what to do everything 
 as fast as you can and try to save this person.
  
  VALUE: After every operation you clear it goes into mission mode. There are a total of five ranks 
 to get giving this one a little replay value.
  
  TILT: I had a lot of fun with this one. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Woody121
Rating: 8.9
Date: Oct 8, 2006 2:55 am PT
Review:  Trauma Center: Under the Knife is indeed a great game. It gives you a very strong challenge but 
 nothing so difficult it becomes tedius after doing it over and over. It has a good story line and 
 makes great use of the DSs touch screen. You gradually see yourself improving as you grab instruments 
 and battle to save the patients life. It requires a lot of concentration. You have to focus on 
 many aspecs at once, pulse, cuts, other vitals. In essence, you have a chain of things to do, but 
 you don't know what order to do them in, it depends on what is happening to the patient. Some bad 
 points of the game include slightly unrealistic happenings, such as if you ever fail an operation 
 the medica l team 'just arrives in time' or 'I can handle this, outta my way Derek!' and sofourth. 
 Also it isn't very likely for you to succeed in the operation first try, you often have to keep 
 going and going, but, strangly, this doesn't detur you from playing, rather, you become addicted 
 and keep trying to complete it! Lastly, there are no 'save points' in operations, sometimes it 
 can be fustrating when you are stuck at the end point of the operation but you have to start from 
 the beginning all the time. However, generally this game is great and I would higly recommend purchasing 
 it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mcrfan44
Rating: 9.8
Date: Oct 4, 2006 9:05 pm PT
Review:  In Trauma Center: Under The Knife you are placed in the role of an aspiring surgeon named Derek 
 Stiles (aka: stylus) . Now because you are a newbie in the surgery field you start out with small, 
 non-life threatening surgeries but quickly more up to the more crucial or critical surgeries. Pretty 
 soon some complications develop and you realize that you may be in over your head....... The first 
 thing you will notice in this game is the gameplay. This game has the most innovative use of the 
 stylus and the touch screen than any game to date. Using the stylus you will extract glass, drain 
 tumors, suture wounds, and destroy parasites. The graphics, while using stills for most of the 
 game, are awesome during surgeries and the stills fit well with the story. The music and sound 
 effects are basically the same for every surgery (with a few exceptions) but they never get annoying. 
 While the game is kind of short, it makes up for it with good challenges throughout the game. Also, 
 the game isnt too hard at first, so dont be put off by the difficulty later in the game. By then 
 you should have honed your techniques pretty well. Overall, this is an excellent game that should 
 by no means be over looked. For a fledgling system like the DS, where good games can be hard to 
 come by, this game stands out. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Canon-D
Rating: 7.9
Date: Sep 30, 2006 11:52 am PT
Review:  At first site a surgery game might not be a #1 hit but Trauma Center completely turns the tides 
 on that idea, in fact, in its genre it's just about outstanding!
  
  Trauma Center will put you in the story of Derek Stiles, a young surgeon with a special talent 
 that (as with every hero) will find himself up against something bigger than just normal routine,,
 
  
  Operations work (of course) uysing the stylus, choosing your tools and using them on the patient 
 is incredibly simple, and the controls are very responding.
  
  The game presents a story mode and a challenge mode, that you can use to go through past operations 
 for a better score. Although the story mode isn't the longest, the challenge it gives is more than 
 enough. In fact another flaw of the game might as well be it's difficulty, towards the end of the 
 game it becomes just to difficult. Although challenging is fun, it might get stressful at a point, 
 and that's not fun at all!
  
  Graphics and sound both integrate well, although you might get tired of the repetitive sound track.
 
  
  In the end, Trauma Center is a great choice, it creates an incredible atmosphere the makes you 
 feel right there in front of the patient, and that's something that few games can achieve. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: weakan
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 9, 2007 8:32 am PT
Review:  THE GOOD POINTS: challenging game play, good mix of puzzle and the surgeon theme, many instruments 
 to use, THE CHALLENCE MODE were you can do old operations again and again, realistic disieses {like 
 tumors} , the power HEALING TOUCH makes operations a lots easyer, good touch screen funcions, blood 
 looks real. THE BAD POINT :sometimes to hard for his own good, no multiplayer mode. [CONCLUSION] TRAUMA 
 CENTER: UNDER THE KNIFE is challenging nintendo ds game. even for expieriend games this is a bit 
 hard. but futher this game bring hours and hours of fun. {hint} if you already have played this game 
 out buy TRAUMA CENTER: SECOND OPION FOR THE WII .hey its only a hint. {this is one of mine favorite 
 games on the ds} . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kilikfire
Rating: 9.7
Date: Sep 24, 2006 6:30 am PT
Review:  Trauma Center: Under the Knife is perhaps my favorite DS game that I've played so far (and I've 
 played a lot of them) . Not because of flashy graphics, are good story, or trademark characters, 
 but because of pure, awesome gameplay.
  You are Derek Stiles, medic-in-training who has found out he has the healing touch, a special power 
 that allows him to slow down time. You are trying to battle a disease called G. U. I. L. T., and that's 
 basically all there is for story. The medical cases in this game are awesome, ranging from car 
 crashes, to throat problems, to tumors. The game is REALLY hard, however, and requires a lot of 
 skill to complete. I myslef have still not completed it, and I've had it for over a month.
  Controls are the best part. You use the touch screen for everything. The patient is on the bottom 
 screen and the nurse is on the top. She tells you what's going on and what to do, and then you 
 have to operate. Good replayablity because you can have up to 3 save files and you can replay missions 
 to try to get a better ranking. Graphics may not be the best, but who cares. You can identify what 
 everything is and this game doesn't even focus on graphics, it focuses on solid gameplay.
  One of the best game's for the DS, worth over $35.
  Two words: Get it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: September_Grey
Rating: 8.9
Date: Sep 23, 2006 9:12 pm PT
Review:  Surgery is no gameunless youre playing Trauma Center: Under The Knife for Nintendos DS, a game 
 that tasks you with drawing relatively simple gestures to mimic surgical practices in life-saving 
 operations. Sounds easy, right? However, things quickly build up steam, both in the gameplay and 
 the over-the-top but highly enjoyable storyline. Before you know it, youre in the thick of an 
 intense, challenging, and refreshing experience that any levelheaded DS owner will undoubtedly 
 be enticed to.
  
  Trauma Center takes place in a near-future setting where huge medical breakthroughs have nearly 
 rendered things like cancer obsolete. You play as Derek Stiles, a cocky new surgeon fresh out of 
 med school who has finagled his way onto the staff at Hope Hospital. Dereks your typical bumbling 
 sort of hero who has good intentions but isnt quite ready to make a difference in the world just 
 yet. However, hell soon have to step up and take charge as a new and devastating viral strain 
 begins to spread around Hope Hospital and beyond. The games plotline sticks closely to an anime-style 
 template where things are frequently over-the-top but handled with the utmost seriousness by the 
 characters. Overall, this style works nicely for the game, and when the game goes to such lengths 
 as medical terrorism and the pseudo-supernatural, you wont be able to help but grin.
  
  Things start pretty simple in the game, with routine surgeries easing you into the gameplay before 
 things get too crazy. The basic progression of the game typically presents you with a patients 
 chart and a quick background about the patient. Youll then begin to operate on them, and afterward, 
 youll get a short sequence regarding the overarching storyline before moving onward. Youll begin 
 using tools like drains to dissipate fluid buildup, sutures and bandages to heal cuts, and so on. 
 Every tool is operated with the stylus and touch screen; no buttons are required to play Trauma 
 Center. For example, drawing a zigzag pattern over a cut with the suture tool will stitch it up. 
 However, more complicated tools soon make their appearances. Scanning a patient with the ultrasound 
 tool will help you find concealed tumors or parasites so you can laser them; forceps will allow 
 you to pull out pieces of glass in a patients body, and so forth. None of the individual steps 
 in Trauma Center are particularly difficult; however, certain procedures require you to perform 
 several of these basic steps in a very specific order, and most are only explained once. A nurse 
 up on the top screen will help you out if needed, but their advice quickly drowns out as you progress 
 into the game. Combined with the need of constantly having to maintain and stabilize your patients 
 vital signs while making sure to work quickly and without incident (using a tool incorrectly will 
 stroke off a miss allowance that will eventually kill the patient) , Trauma Centers gameplay 
 quickly turns extremely tense. In a neat touch, patients lives are frequently depending on Dereks 
 skills as a surgeon  for example, a patient early on in the game has a throat ailment and is relying 
 on you to fix it and save his fledging singing career. This adds yet another layer of pressure 
 that really helps carry the already great gameplay.
  
  Sadly, its also during these tense moments that a couple caveats in the design crop up, such as 
 the spotty detection on the circles you need to draw to zoom in on a particular part of the patient, 
 as well as an overall feeling that the game has sometimes simply not prepared you enough for what 
 you have to deal with; getting through an operation on the first or second try is tantamount to 
 a miracle.
  
  Luckily, a feature known as the Healing Touch offers you some leeway while in panic during the 
 games numerous difficult situations. Early on in the game, Derek realizes his ability to slow 
 down time for a short period. You can activate it by tracing a star pattern, and it can only be 
 used once in an operation. After first achieving this ability, youll feel a lot more assertive 
 during operations, though the game gradually tightens the leash on the Healing Touch, as well. 
 During some late-game operations, the Healing Touch must be activated at a very specific (though 
 undetermined) point, lest you miss a deadly ailment for your patient and run into the Game Over 
 screen. As a result of these demands, you may find the last couple missions devolve into some frustrating 
 bouts of trial-and-error, though if youre the type of player who can survive that long into the 
 game, you probably wont mind so much.
  
  Trauma Centers visuals combine crisp, interesting two-dimensional anime characters with some basic 
 three-dimensional modeling for the operations themselves. The synthesis of these two art styles 
 ends up meshing nicely. All of the characters have lots of different expressions throughout the 
 game, and they typically go for a delightfully over-the-top style that helps bolster the story. 
 The bodies you work on during operations have a simple yet effective look to them, which is handy, 
 since making precision motions with your stylus amidst a cluttered screen would have been nonsense. 
 Some neat visual effects, like hemorrhaging and the slight, natural movements of a persons innards 
 add up to make this a great-looking DS game, all things considered.
  
  The sound design is solid though understated. The games dialogue is not voiced, and theres not 
 a huge collection of music throughout. However, whats there is great, and it really helps show 
 off the dramatic flair of the game. Dramatic music that wouldnt sound out of place in an episode 
 of ER is underscored by a constant heartbeat during the operations, and after successfully pulling 
 one off, you get an upbeat and memorable song that sounds your victory. The slicing, slurping, 
 and sucking that accompanies your surgical procedures are also well done. So while the audio is 
 used a bit sparingly throughout the game, it brings it where it counts.
  
  With Trauma Centers difficulty and large number of story missions, this is a game you likely will 
 not blow through in a weekend. A large set of additional surgeries are unlocked after the main 
 story is complete as well, which picks up at the monstrous difficulty of the story modes final 
 stretch. You can also go back and try to do a surgery quicker and with fewer accidents to improve 
 a ranking displayed at the end  while more or less meaningless to your progress, completionists 
 will find yet more value through this end.
  
  Trauma Center: Under The Knife is a lengthy, difficult, and utterly unique game, and it could only 
 be done on Nintendos handheld. If youre the type of player that doesnt mind a challenge and 
 has a fair amount of patience, this game comes highly recommended. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: raquor
Rating: 8.5
Date: Sep 21, 2006 12:00 am PT
Review:  This game surprised me. Just going by the title the game sounds kinda dumb I admit. But I kept 
 hearing good things everywhere, forums, reviews, podcasts, everywhere! Finally I just had to find 
 out for myself what all the buzz was about.
  
  I picked it up and It's an amazingly immersive game. I like it a lot!
  
  Gameplay: The gameplay 
 for this game is great in that you use the touchpad exclusively (unless you want to use buttons 
 to continue through dialogue) . The game itself utilizes the stylus for everything. My only complaint 
 keeping it from getting a solid 10 is the touchy magnifying effect. I've wasted far too long on 
 various missions trying to circle just the right amount of screen to zoom in or out. The story 
 is also immersive if a bit on the wild side.
  
  Graphics: The graphics get a 10 because honestly I love the anime styling. It has grown on me ever 
 since Wind Waker and it works here too. I wish I could slow done the bits where derek goes into 
 op as I never fully get to appreciate the artwork that slams up and down the screen. It's so over 
 the top anime style that I just cant help but love it.
  
  Sound: Well... the sound does leave something to be desired but the gameplay and graphics make up 
 for it and at least it doesnt grate on the nerves like some games can.
  
  Value: Considering the DS HAS a second screen AND that screen is a touch screen I LOVE that the 
 controls are entirely touch based and work EXTREMELY well. Unfortunately during operations the 
 upper screen is completely neglected UNLESS the nurse is breaking into your groove to blab about 
 procedures or something else. If the top screen were more usefull or the nurse didnt interrupt 
 the flow/pacing of the operations the value would be higher.
  
  Tilt: While I picked this up more or less out of peer pressure because of all the good things I 
 kept hearing about it from other gamers across the web, having finally played it for myself I can't 
 help but love it.
  
  The whole package is Just plain fun! and that is what gaming is all about! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SabotFox
Rating: 8.4
Date: Sep 20, 2006 9:44 pm PT
Review:  The DS touch screen has allowed the creation of a number of fun and innovative titles, and Trauma 
 Center definitely stands at the front of that pack. Wielding the stylus as a variety of surgical 
 tools, youll take hack-and-slash gaming to a whole new level! As young surgeon Derek Stiles, youre 
 out to save the world, one patient at a time!
  
  The games takes place in the not-too-distant future, where medical advancements have made all but 
 a few holdout diseases treatable and curable. That is, until a shadowy terrorist organization unleashes 
 a deadly plague called GUILT that starts ravaging the world. Derek winds up at the center of this 
 epidemic, and while he and a team of researchers scramble to find the cures and the cause of this 
 disease, Derek will embark of a personal journey to determine why he chose medicine as his profession. 
 Along the way, Derek discovers that he has a rather spooky ability to slow time, appropriately 
 called the Healing Touch. (After all, what video game experience is complete without a touch 
 of the supernatural?)
  
  As you can imagine, the bulk of the action takes place on the touch screen. This is where youll 
 see the patients tastefully rendered insides so that you can extract all the creepy-crawlies within 
 and undo all the damage theyve caused. The top screen is strictly a dialogue box. Between operations, 
 the story elements unfold here and while youre playing doctor, your assistant will be available 
 on this screen to offer hints or to remind you of the next step. Youll use the stylus as a variety 
 of surgical tools  from a scalpel to a roll of bandages  as well as to select those tools. Since 
 these tools are arrayed on either side of the screen, your operating area gets kind of cramped. 
 This only serves to heighten the realism of the game as you tighten your focus on this limited 
 area.
  
  The first few operations are rather simple, and the game does a good job of holding your hand as 
 you learn the capabilities of each of your tools. Dont worry; that slow pace doesnt last very 
 long. Before long, youll have to conduct your operations at a frenzied pace. Unfortunately, Trauma 
 Center doesnt offer any difficulty settings, so if the operations get too challenging, all you 
 can really do is develop faster reflexes. On the reverse side of that coin, if the operations are 
 too easy, theres no real way to up the ante. Most of the operations have a five-minute time limit, 
 although the timer will stop if your assistant has to explain something. The bad thing about that 
 is theres no way to skip those sequences, annoying if youve played through the mission a few 
 times, downright aggravating if youre in the middle of something when the game decides to pause 
 itself, especially since youll have to start the procedure over once its done prattling on.
 
  
  Graphically, the game is about standard for a cartridge game. The story sequences unfold with still 
 backgrounds and static 2D anime characters. The sound quality is a bit below average, as youll 
 hear the same forgettable musical sequences throughout the game. Most of the time the music fits 
 the story sequences; sometimes the drama gets overridden by the hospitals bouncy theme.
  
  The story itself is fairly short, and unless you have serious trouble keeping up with the games 
 frantic pace, it probably wont take more than 20 hours to wrap things up. Theres not much replay 
 value, either. While some of the viruses react with marginal differences each time you encounter 
 them, the overall effect remains the same. Plus, the inability to raise the difficulty or stop 
 the hand-holding can get kind of grating.
  
  Still, this was a really fun title, and it plays out really well. I only encountered a handful 
 of frame rate issues and every so often the screen registered the stylus action incorrectly, earning 
 several misses and a severe drop in vitals. However, those issues were easily overcome. A minor 
 gripe (and a rather personal complaint, at that) is that I usually play my DS while Im traveling, 
 and the precision required in this game made this an impossible game to play while on the go. That 
 probably doesnt apply to everyone, though.
  
  Overall, this game is definitely worth experiencing! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DiscGuru101
Rating: 9.8
Date: Sep 2, 2006 12:17 am PT
Review:  Let me make this clear: I dont like medical TV shows at all. I dont have any interest in watching 
 surgical videos. But the designers of this game are very conscience of the fact that gory surgery 
 is a huge turn off to 99.9% of the world. To me Under the Knife is the perfect action/puzzle game. 
 I hate puzzle games in general, so I would say TC is only about 5% puzzle game at heart. 
  
  It is 100% stylus driven and that is what makes it such a killer-app for the DS. This game 
 makes you feel powerful. When you succeed its because you have worked super fast, super accurately, 
 and wisely. You have to perform surgeries in a very logical way that is immensely gratifying when 
 performed correctly. What throws the fun into high gear though, is the super human gift possessed 
 by the lead character called: "Healing Touch" With healing touch you can pull off Matrix style 
 bullet time. In order to invoke this gift you must quickly draw a 5-pointed star. I only wish 
 you could active it more than once per surgery.
  
  With the next version of the game headed for the Wii, I see a very promising future for this innovative 
 interactive game play system. 
  
  To tone my most glowing game review to date, I will add this game is very difficult for most people, 
 heh even gamespot vets. I dont really have a problem with the insane difficutly for a change because 
 practice has shown the operations can be performed surprising quickly in every case. 
  
  Bottom Line: Order it online. It sells faster than lighting at retail stores. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: derekstiles2012
Rating: 9.9
Date: Aug 30, 2006 5:08 am PT
Review:  trauma center is 1 of those games u like or dont like
  in my oppinion i luv it!!!
  i completed in 5hrs 32mins
  and i knew alot bout it cuz my mams a surgeon and we talk bout surgery 
 a very tough game but fun!!
  i reckon a must buy
  
  so go out and buy
  
  - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - 
 - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -- - - - - - 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hyofinkl
Rating: 9.4
Date: Aug 29, 2006 11:14 am PT
Review:  It took me a long time to find this game and i'm glad i did. This game puts the player into action 
 extremely fast and it should because there aren't too many things to learn but that doesn't mean 
 it's an easy game. While you're playing this game, you'll come across certain missions that seem 
 damn near impossible to beat but if you really think about your strategy in going about those missions, 
 they won't be too hard. An extremely enjoyable game that any ds owner should pick up if they are 
 able to find it. I heard that the game got re-released but I still doubt that it will be easy to 
 find. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: WINDWAKER1
Rating: 8.8
Date: Aug 22, 2006 8:29 pm PT
Review:  You probably know what this game is about by reading the title. You perform surgeries in a hospital 
 most of the time. but is it good? Yes. it is. Trauma center is a great game. I'm surprised and 
 sincerely impressed.
  
  You play as Dr. Derek Stiles, a surgeon who runs into a TON of problems concerning 'medical ism', 
 and this disease called GUILT, that is split into a few different types. most are puzzles, some 
 involve more action. One thing everyone can agree on, though, is that Trauma Center is tough. I 
 gaurentee you will be stuck in 1 part at least once in the game. It can be really hard. If your 
 quick, you can succeed! yeah. The graphics dont reveal too much of the patient while performing 
 (squeemish people should be ok) , and some awesome character animations (i anime, too) help. the 
 music is ok, very suspensful. I like some songs, dislike others. The game is short, but hard. Expect 
 to retry a few levels over and over again. and one other thing: X1 is HARD. one more thing: Why 
 is everyone getting this game and Phoenix Wright mixed together? They're both great, but PW is 
 better, so i'd get that first, but get both. Trauma Center is Fun. And they all lived Happily Ever 
 After.
  
  Except Adam
  
  THE END 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Lord-Morzan7
Rating: 9.6
Date: Aug 20, 2006 1:28 pm PT
Review:  I just bought this game yesterday and I already love it! It is hard but fun. Here are the pros 
 and cons.
  
  Pros
  -amazing graphics
  -great idea for a story
  -great idea for a game
  -fun stylus controls
  -gets pretty tense. I found myself sweating in 
 one of the operations.
  -excellent music
  -good, sometimes funny dialogue
  -good looking characters. That anime stuff is amazing.
  -good replay value. You can redo operations.
 
  
  Cons
  -sometimes incredibly hard
  -the game can be picky at times. (Ex: to magnify you have to draw a circle. Once it took me 10 
 times to do this)
  -the poses Derek makes can get corny after awhile.
  
  If you think about it this is a really awesome game. One of the best games I own. It was worth 
 every penny. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: roywood1
Rating: 8.8
Date: Aug 18, 2006 4:28 pm PT
Review:  Well, this is my first review, so I hope its good. Okay, lets begin.
  
  Graphics-The in-game graphics werent very gory, so as to attract the squeamish and seemed very 
 detailed for the game (lacerations had lines going toward the cut, etc.) . The style of the main 
 storyline pictures seemed very fitting, the emotions in the characters were evident, the artwork 
 looked great for the characters.
  
  Sound- The sound was great except there wasnt much of a variety to it. There was the main opening 
 theme which seemed fitting for a futuristic ER game. The storyline music which was kind of relaxed, 
 the in-game surgery which really got you in the zone and the serious music for the more important 
 surgeries which really got your heart beating, but that was pretty much it.
  
  Fun Factor- The game was very fun, however, it was frustrating at the same time. Many of the missions 
 were quite difficult to complete during ones first turn. There were many surprises in the game 
 which added to the fun such as one mission of doing surgery to diffuse a bomb. The game really 
 made you feel like you were in the surgery and when you lost (or at least when I did) , I felt the 
 need to beat the mission no matter what.
  
  Replayability- This game offers a challenge mode after completion which adds to the fun of the 
 game. During the game you are given ranks during surgery (C Rookie Docter, B-Specialist , A-Senior 
 Surgeon, S-Master Surgeon) , which appear during challenge mode for you to practice on until you 
 can get an S in every Surgery. Also after completion of the game, in challenge mode there are extra 
 missions which can be completed.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Razer5660
Rating: 8.5
Date: Aug 18, 2006 8:33 am PT
Review:  One thing that makes the Nintendo DS so great is that it is has arguably some of the most innovative 
 games that a video system has ever had. A couple months back, you got to step into the shoes of 
 Phoenix Wright and become a highly publicized defense lawyer. But after that, you got to scrub 
 in as Dr. Derek Stiles in Trauma Center: Under the Knife. The game was so popular; it sold out 
 in merely one and a half months. But now, Atlas Co. has decided to make a comeback, sending a second 
 shipment of the surgery sim to stores in North America. Get to the O. R! Heres my review.
  
  Story:
  
  Derek Stiles, a hot-headed, fresh-out-of med school surgeon has just started 
 at the hope hospital in the fictional city of Angeles Bay. His new found job takes him through 
 minor surgeries such as lacerations, but then as the game progresses he finds himself excising 
 tumors and clearing throat polyps. As you delve even further, you find yourself fighting a new 
 found bio-terror called GUILT with your mysterious power, the Healing Touch. Overall, the story 
 appeals to me as very melodramatic. I often found myself deeply involved in the story, yet I knew 
 that it was just a load of crap. But overall, the story really appealed to me.
  
  raphics:
  
  The top screen is used for dialogue, character portraits, and so on, and usually 
 stays strictly 2D. The graphics up there are razor-sharp, though, and the backgrounds are often 
 incredibly photorealistic. You won't see a lot of animation up top, but that's done on purpose; 
 you don't want to be distracted from the real action on the lower screen. But on the lower screen 
 is where everything happens. Youll utilize the highest technological advances to successfully 
 complete the surgery, such as lasers and new-found antibiotics. The graphics on the lower screen 
 are impressive, with patients body parts represented in full fledged 3D. Theres not usually too 
 much detail, because of the DS low-end graphical capabilities.
  
  Sound:
  The sound youd expect to have in a surgery game would most likely be EKG blips and heart-rate 
 monitors right? If yes, youd be right. Theres not really much more sounds you can put in this 
 kind of game. But the music in the game suits the game perfectly. Dramatic piano sequences and 
 techno dirges take the stage here, as they really rally up the tension during suspenseful operations. 
 But, I was really disappointed to see that there was a lack of voiceovers in the game. The dialogue 
 is good, but Id much rather listen to it then hear it. Nevertheless, we are dealing with the DS 
 here, which isnt really the pinnacle of technology itself.
  
  
  
  Gameplay:
  The gameplay in Trauma Center is unlike anything youve ever seen before. Its essentially a cross 
 between a daytime soap-opera and the game Operation. Perhaps one of the most intriguing factors 
 about Trauma Center is the actual pressure that Atlus has recreated. Through the entire game, I 
 felt like I was a real doctor, saving real patients. The game really does offer a fun experience, 
 but sometimes, it can be extremely frustrating to take at once. Towards the end of the game, the 
 operations get ridiculously hard, and the player will have to be fast, precise, and very alert. 
 This is really the worst point of the entire game, and it will discourage the player and make he 
 or she not want to progress any further. Its expected to happen though, considering the operations 
 get so repetitive and making them more difficult is the only way to offer some kind of change of 
 pace. 
  
  Conclusion:
  
  Trauma Center is a great game. I have no interest in the medical field and still had a blast playing 
 through it. The learning curve seemed a bit steep at first. I was like, Wait a minute, what was 
 I supposed to do after Ioh yeah! and that gives the game more of a realistic feel to it I think. 
 The game sucked me in and made me feel like these patients lives really depended on me. The anime 
 characters and conversation between characters creates a great atmosphere and brings the story 
 together quite well. If youre looking for a truly unique game on the Nintendo DS that is not only 
 fun, but also exhilarating to play, be sure to pick up Trauma Center. Its well worth your money.
 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Crybabylover
Rating: 9.3
Date: Aug 16, 2006 11:26 am PT
Review:  This game is nearly perfect and is incredibly fun. Do not deny it just because it's surgery, because 
 it's one of the best games I've played in my live. You will spend hours of game-play on this for 
 it's stunning graphics, game-play, and features! I try to make this interesting because I'm attached 
 to it and can't get enough of it. Also, there will be a Trauma Center: Second Opinion fro the Nintendo 
 Wii, which I heard will come out when the Wii does. Second Opinion is a remake of Under the Knife, 
 but not just a remake, but it will have a few features and new artwork. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: johnny139
Rating: 8.7
Date: Aug 8, 2006 7:07 pm PT
Review:  A great game, plain and simple. Perfect use of the DS's Touch Screen! Plus, who doesn't want to 
 remove malignant tumors?
  
  The graphics are up to caliber, but nothing special. Sound on the other hand is magnificent , with 
 realistic effects and full on voice acting. The voices fit the characters well, who are all diverse 
 and interesting. Its worth the 30 bucks you can get it for.
  
  Gameplay is perfect, with pinpoint accuracy and various different tools of the trade. Its very 
 addicting, but must be played in short bursts. The only thing that brings the value down is the 
 difficulty; its a bit too hard for its own good.
  
  You can play Trauma Center: Under the Knife for hours on end, and is a must have for every DS owner. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Lennex2
Rating: 8.7
Date: Aug 7, 2006 8:58 pm PT
Review:  Like a bad drug, this game keeps on making you come back for more, no matter how hard it is to 
 deal with.
  
  (hows that for a medical analogy!)
  
  In all seirousness, this is one of the most adiciting games I've picked up for the DS, trumped 
 only by 'Sudoku Gridmasers.' 
  
  Is it the fast moving, well told story line? What about the heart pounding adrenaline rush that 
 is operating on virtual patients? Or what about the great graphics and interface? It's definatly 
 not the cheasy and lame anime style 'fighting stance' scenes that take place before operations. 
 Afterall, who looks like their going to whup someones ass, screaming battle cries, before they 
 conduct a vavle transplant in someones heart?
  
  The game gets hard quickly, I'm finding myself repeating the missions several times after about 
 an hour and a half of gameplay. The game definatly requires you to have a fast hand, and rewards 
 your quick thinking. There is not as much empahsis on accuracy as one might think, which is disapointing, 
 but also a life saver in many siutations.
  
  The sounds are decent, but could definatly use a lot more work . I'd be cooler if there was a bit 
 more voice aciting, but hey, it's a cartridge game!
  
  The one thing that I would definatly change about this game is the save feature. It should really 
 have more save slots, or work on a profile system with multiple save slots per user. This would 
 make it easier to share the game between roommates/friends. 
  
  Overall this is an instant classic in my eyes, and will definatly deliver many more hours of heart 
 pounding gameplay! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hintaki
Rating: 8.8
Date: Aug 6, 2006 8:04 pm PT
Review:  Sometimes its difficult in some parts of the game but it pretty fun game to play. I'm getting use 
 too right now, not bad for this game. I pretty like it so far, it can be little challenging but 
 I like a bit challenging in some games. So far I would say this game is fun and need to get use 
 too it. This game also keep your mind thinking and it's also very addicting game. Different gameplay 
 from the other games I have played. Sometimes I get confuse on what I'm doing because some of the 
 operation goes faster then others. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MELEEmonkey
Rating: 9.2
Date: Jul 30, 2006 11:23 am PT
Review:  first of all when you first get this game you will have no clue what to do and in about an hour 
 you will start to catch on but anyways even if you do get it is is still incredibly hard the only 
 game harder i've played is atv offroad blazing but that dosen't have the learning curve but anyways 
 it is still a great doctor simulation (i guess being a doctor must be extremely hard because this 
 game definately is!)
  
  Gameplayi have played simulation games but never have i even heard about a doctor simulation this 
 is a great idea that works perfectly
  
  Graphics the blood and tools look good the anime is a great idea but the body you work on looks 
 kind of crappy 
  
  Sound not much in the sound catagorey cutting people open never sounded so real though and when 
 people are talking there mouths don't move and you dont hear anything so if you care anything about 
 a story be prepared to read
  
  Value a very innovative simulation that has a good difficulty and by good i mean hard i got this 
 game for 30 dollars but you might want to find it for 20 unless you really really want it or you 
 are a doctor or you like challenging game if so this game would be great for you
  
  Tilt a doctor simulator that's an idea it worked well but being a doctor is a little to hard of 
 a job and if you can't handle anything super hard or a super learning curve then don't get this 
 i'm just warning you 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hammerman316
Rating: 7.4
Date: Jul 28, 2006 9:16 am PT
Review:  great game for first time ds, ers as the touch screen is fun to use but the operations are fun but 
 invole the same thing mainly but for a simulation story line is pretty good p. s for people reading 
 this who have played both this and pheonix wrights could e-mail mer on what is better , thanks. 
 ignore this it is too fill up 100 words. as as a sas as as as ass aa sas a sa as as a sa sa sa 
 sa sa a sa sa sa sa sa sa s as as a sa sas a sa s 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gaaravsrocklee
Rating: 9.8
Date: Jul 24, 2006 10:51 am PT
Review:  trauma center under the knife is a really good game 4 the ds with very good controls. trauma center 
 isnt a lengthy game but a hard game that makes u think time to time. this game goes by chapters 
 and after you beat it u can do more missions or try to beat your old scores from the original scores. 
 it is a fun game but very repetitive. in this game u are dr. stiles and u are a doctor whos startin 
 out but learns that wen he really focuses he can slow down time to help him with operations, this 
 power is called the healing touch and dr. stiles decides to try to master this power so he can 
 cure impossible diseases. this game is a must hav game if u hav a ds because it is a good ds game 
 that knos how to use the touch screen properly 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mr_bri9htside
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jul 24, 2006 1:52 pm PT
Review:  Trauma Centre: Under the Knife is such a game where you save people's lives one by one. A game 
 that will get you so into it that you'll end up screaming if you lose the patient. I've found myself 
 saying "C'mon! Stay with me!" when I play, or "Hurry Doctor" and "Vitals are dropping!" when I'm 
 watching someone else play.
  
  The gameplay of this game can range from simple to very complex. During the first operation you'll 
 find yourself simply removing pieces of glass and applying antibiotic gel to the cuts and sewing 
 him back up. But later on in the game, the procedures get harder and much more complex. Where you 
 have to excise many tumors in different places, or use the laser to rid the organs of kyriaki, 
 which you will learn about later on. 
  
  You play the role of Dr. Derek Stiles, who recently graduated university, and he is hired as a 
 sergeon at Hope Hospital. Your first operation is to basically remove glass from the upper arm. 
 You always have an assistant to help you and during the first three operations you have a 39-year 
 old lady named Mary Fulton. Then she leaves to help out another hospital and you get a real **** 
 nurse named Angie Thomson. But after a while she accumulates a liking to you. 
  
  During each operation, there will be a time limit of usually 5 minutes. And if that time runs out, 
 well, basically it's game over and the head doctor takes over. There are also the vitals. Vitals 
 will usually start in the 80's or at 99. But once the vitals drop to 0, game over, patient dies. 
 Vitals are the patients life, the heartbeat, blood pressure, and other signs of life. The vitals 
 will be displayed at the top left corner while the time alloted will be displayed at the bottom 
 of the top screen. Your tools consist of the laser, antibiotic gel, the drain, forceps, a scanner, 
 a scalpel, stitches, syringe, some bandages and of course your glove covered hands. These are all 
 displayed evenly on the left and right of the touch screen for easy access to them. All you do 
 is touch the picture, and you'll automatically be using the tool.
  
  The graphics of this game aren't half bad. They aren't amazing or anything but they do good. Basically, 
 when someone is talking, they'll show an anime picture of the character with a facial and body 
 expression in a 3-D background. Nothing moves in the back ground, just a picture. 
  
  The music in this game fits in with the situations. They actually matched it with the gameplay 
 and seriousness (Unlike Atlus' Magna Carta) . The music does well and it gets you in the modd of 
 saving people's lives. Haha it's not a superhero theme song, but music that's serious, hardworking, 
 paced, and like a silent heartbeat. Some other user's say the music is like Phoenix Wright: Ace 
 Attorney, but it's not, believe me.
  
  In the game they feature a "Challenge" mode where you can replay past operations and practice or 
 beat high scores. I never really got tired of replaying procedures because they were fun yet serious. 
 So I can't imagine anyone else getting tired of them. Overall, this is an awesome game to add to 
 anyone's collection of their favorite games. It's that good. So get it if you ever come across 
 it, as it's now discontinued and was always very rare to find. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Zooi3
Rating: 8.3
Date: Aug 16, 2006 7:53 pm PT
Review:  At first glance, Trauma Center: Under The Knife, may seem like the first batch of DS titles. These 
 games were lacking in interesting uses of the dual screens and the overall game play felt rushed. 
 As the characters and story start to develop and the game play becomes more complex, challenging 
 and varied in Trauma Center, all thoughts similar to that will have disappeared.
  
  Trauma Center uses the dual screens exactly how Nintendo wanted developers to do. It is clear that 
 Trauma Center was made exclusively for the DS and it gives the player the feeling that the developers 
 at Atlus were really using their imagination while creating this unique experience.
  
  The surgery, while the majority is fiction, feels realistic enough to really engage the player. 
 Trauma Center features operations, such as removing glass from a patients body and treating man-made 
 diseases that are incurable. The game will hold you hand through the steps, but if you dont 
 move quick, while keeping accurate, youre bound to fail.
  
  Dont fret if you have a weak stomach. The graphics are detailed enough, so that the player can 
 understand whats happening, but not so detailed that theyll make you turn the game off.
  
  That being said, Trauma Center is not without its flaws. Sometimes the operations are so difficult 
 that the player may feel that the only reason they succeeded was because of pure luck. The fact 
 that the touch screen isnt as responsive and accurate as it could be sometimes doesnt help the 
 game from feeling over-challenging. The game is also on the short side and could have better replay 
 value. Fortunately, the operations can be replayed to achieve better rankings.
  
  Despite its drawbacks, Trauma Center, is a fresh, rewarding game that gives you a new way to look 
 at the DS.
  
  Note: A slightly edited version of this review was featured in volume 204 of Nintendo Power. I 
 submitted this through my NSider account, Zooie, and was lucky enough to be selected. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Kitsune_Blue
Rating: 9
Date: Jul 15, 2006 3:35 pm PT
Review:  Though you may only have 30 or so missions on this game, (with a time limit of no more then 10 
 minutes each) , expect to spend a lot of time on this game before you finish. Yes, it really is 
 that hard. However, the control is worked out perfectly thanks to the DS' touch screen, and the 
 missions, while frustrating at times, are truely fun. Though the game's graphics are pretty bad, 
 and the music and sound effects are nothing special, this game has fantastic gameplay and value. 
 It's rare, but if you have a DS and manage to find a copy, you MUST BUY IT. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: killjoy188
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jul 13, 2006 7:27 pm PT
Review:  A very fun game that could only be done on the DS (or Wii -- I'm looking forward to the sequel) .
 
  
  The only thing really wrong with it is that if you want to beat it (or even get halfway through 
 the game) you have to practically dedicate your life to practicing. The difficulty is ridiculous. 
 I gave it a learning curve of 4 or more hours because if you intend on simply completing the game 
 (nevermind the unlockables) , you're gonna have to spend that much time doing the same operations 
 over and over until you can do it without conscious thought. Which is how real surgeries should 
 be, but you know, it's too much like work.
  
  I just hope the sequel has difficulty settings, or something. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: shonenjumpfan12
Rating: 8.4
Date: Jul 11, 2006 10:10 pm PT
Review:  GAMEPLAY: In Trauma Center: Under the Knife you live in a world that has concured AIDS and Cancer. 
 You take the role of a Docter named Derek Stiles who is a rookie Docter in training. As the story 
 progresses you get a new nurse and you become a full fleged Docter and join a team who is trying 
 to concure a new desiese call GUILT. GUILT is a small paracite that gets into a persons body and 
 slowly (and painfully from whats in the game) rips out your stomach and other insides. The gameplay 
 is very unique making you use the stylis alone which isent nessecarly a bad thing. You play just 
 like a real Docter in this one and anyone who has trouble looking at blood wont have to worry about 
 this one because of its graphics. Everyone looks like they just poped out of some kind of anime 
 and only in the game they are 3-D and you only see the patient. Mostly in every one of the missions 
 you clean the wound with some kind of green gel thats sopposed to be a really strong medicen that 
 can even completly heal small wounds. After you do that you poke the scalple on the side of the 
 screen and cut into the selected area. Next you use your other tools to save the life of your patient. 
 Every patient has a time limit that is there vitels which is there willing to live. you can put 
 this up anytime with a withdraw of some other green goop and enject it into them. This boosts there 
 vitals.
  
  GRAPHICS: The graphics are ok. There good to look at and you reconize all of the orgens in the 
 body without all the blood.
  
  SOUND: The game uses a type of music that fills you with suspence making you what to do everything 
 as fast as you can and try to save this person.
  
  VALUE: After every operation you clear it goes into mission mode. There are a total of five ranks 
 to get giving this one a little replay value.
  
  TILT: I had a lot of fun with this one. even though I still havent beat the game (im stuck on a 
 part where you have to do save 5 people in 5 minutes) ive done evough to review it.
  
  THEGOOD: A wide variety of surgical scenarios; easy to use touch-screen controls; quirky visual 
 style; challenge mode adds replay value
  
  THEBAD: Sometimes too difficult for its own good 
::::::

::::::
UserName: qualeel92
Rating: 9.1
Date: Jul 9, 2006 3:46 pm PT
Review:  like i said, the story line is full of dramatic sequences... expecially the ending! the gameplay 
 is ok... but if that disease (GUILT) was in the real world... no one would have survived... does diseases 
 are almost impossible to do without the patient dying atleast 6 times :) i still need help for 
 the savato disease!!! the game is not a must-have, but its a puzzle/drama game that has bad words... i 
 like it, good story line. buy it if you are over 10, and under 57 (old ppl are too slow at times) 
 i never said it would be a easy game... it takes some time for some certain episodes, such as disarming 
 a bomb, every single GUILT form, and maybe the puzzle missions. well... if you are into soap operas, 
 then you'll love this game! if you are NOY into soap operas, then why not start here? im not gonna 
 lie, sometimes when you loose a mission just because you didnt close up the patient right, you 
 will get mad... fast. some missions are impossible, but if i got through em', then you can too!!! 
 c'mon, i have faith in you 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DSgurl
Rating: 9.2
Date: Jul 5, 2006 6:06 pm PT
Review:  Trauma Center: Under the Knife lets you play doctor. It's a one of a kind game that's never been 
 seen or done before in this way.
  
  I first began playing this game with the expectation of that it would never get too hard, when that's 
 exactly what I got. As you progress, the operations became more and more difficult and at the same 
 time increase the game's intensity. Truth be told, I'm stuck on an operation right now, but it's all 
 the more fun that way.
  
  The gameplay is the main aspect I'm applauding. Although the graphics are too awe inspiring, they're 
 adequate enough for an interesting gaming experience. There's a variety of tools that help you in 
 the operating room, as well as a helpful (though sometimes annoying) nurse.
  
  The game also provides excellent patient scenarios. They're realistic and easy to grasp.
  
  
 All in all, this game is a must for any DS owner. It fully utilizes the touch screen in a way that 
 is actually benefitial to the gameplay, and provides many challenges for the gamer. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Machine_Shop
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jul 1, 2006 10:44 am PT
Review:  Trauma Center: Under The Knife is essentially a puzzle solving game but it is made more interesting 
 by the fact that it has a great medical theme. You play as Doctor Derek Stiles. With some help 
 from other doctors and nurses, you will be saving lives on your DS. The game play is broken down 
 like this. First, you will have a cut scene that progresses the story. Now in the beginning, the 
 story is pretty boring but as it progresses, it gains appeal. After the scene you will be given 
 information about the operation you are about to perform. Then comes the operation. During this 
 you will have to use your knowledge of the medical tools at disposal, quick thinking, and sometimes 
 a little luck to save a patients life. All of the operation is done by the touch screen and stylus 
 to give you a sense that you are the doctor. After you complete an operation, you will be ranked 
 according to how well you preformed. Then game allows you to save and the cycle will repeat. After 
 completing the game, you will receive bonus operations and at anytime in the menu screen, you may 
 replay any operation to get a better score or because its just plain fun. There is no multiplayer 
 in Trauma Center but that shouldnt stop you from at least checking out this game. Over its a 
 great title for the DS that should not be passed over. If you are having trouble finding this game, 
 a new shipment of this game will come sometime in July 2006. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: NoriNibori
Rating: 8.7
Date: Jun 29, 2006 1:57 pm PT
Review:  I borrowed this game from a friend awhile ago, so here is my thoughts on it.
  
  Gameplay: As with most DS games, Gameplay is what it is all about. You are a Doctor at Hope Hospital, 
 you're new, and you're doing the basic operations, taking glass out of accident victims to removal 
 of Tumors. Later on you run into a man-made virus, that is when the game complety changes, in my 
 oppion, it changes and kills the storyline. Also, as you play the game your character gains, "The 
 Healing Touch" where you draw a star on the screen, and time will slow down, so it's like a focus 
 mode, letting you make split second choices. The gameplay with the touch screen is excallent, you 
 can make stitches, bandage wounds, and more. The game can reconize what you want to do better then 
 other DS games i've seen, other then bandaging, for some reason I ran into some glitches with that, 
 but it was easy to advoid. Difficulty of this game is huge, there is many time where I've wanted 
 to throw the DS across the room in frustration. It does not take long to get the hang of the many 
 tools you have, in the first three missions you learn how to use the tools you'll use through out 
 the game. At the end of the game, you'll have these special missions that you can play to unlock, 
 and the option to replay missions to get a better rank, it will keep you going for awhile. Length 
 of play time is short, but you'll be replaying a mission you failed many times, it should keep 
 you going for roughly seven hours, not including the optional missions.
  
  Graphics: The Graphics durring the cinematics are a nice well known Anime style, with characters 
 only appear in a frozen pose, the pose changes to a differnt pose depending on what the character 
 is saying. The graphics durring the operation are okay, they could have been taken up a notch. 
 While you're in the operation your partner will talk to you, and her pose will change, which is 
 very distracting to me anyways.
  
  Sounds: The sounds, could have been alot better. They don't have the dialog dubbed, except at times 
 while you're in an operation, which is annoying at most. The sounds of your tools working is not 
 bad, it's not really a part of the game that is expected to be important.
  
  Value: Since I borrowed the game, I'm not sure what he payed for it, if it was below 30-35$ it 
 would get a great buy.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: blazewind191
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jun 23, 2006 9:14 pm PT
Review:  Trauma Center: Under the Knife is a very unique game. Unlike other games, this game puts you in 
 the action of saving the people who suffer. You play as surgeon Derek Stiles. The goal of this 
 game is to cure the "incurable" disease called GUILT, and give you a hard time doing it.
  
  In TC, you have several "weapons" at your disposal. You have a scalpel, antibiotic gel, laser, 
 drain tube, forceps, scanner, stiches, syringe, bandages, and the extraordinary Healing Touch. 
 The Healing Touch slows down time, which gives you a bigger opportunity to finish your operations. 
 To do this, you tap the hand icon twice and simply draw a star. However, this only lasts for a 
 certain time, and should only be used as a last resort.
  
  The story goes with 26-year old Dr. Derek Stiles who spent three years as a doctor in Hope Hospital. 
 As he goes through operations, he eventually discovers his innate ability called the Healing Touch. 
 Using this ability as a last resort and honing his skills as a surgeon, Dr. Stiles eventually becomes 
 part of the big medical company called Caduceus. Dr. Stiles will then encounter and befriend many 
 people and run into the "big one" called GUILT. Being gifted with the Healing Touch, Derek travels 
 far and wide curing his patients from GUILT.
  
  Trauma Center may be a very good game at first, but then the game throws at you almost impossible-to-beat 
 missions. Once you narrowly escape those, the game gives you even harder challenges when you beat 
 the game. These are the X missions.
  
  As Dr. Derek Stiles, you'll experience the drama in the O. R. Addicting but way too hard for its 
 own good. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Cwesty21
Rating: 8.8
Date: Jun 19, 2006 5:13 pm PT
Review:  I bought this game because i heard it used the touch screen alot and I got a great game that uses 
 the touch screen. Its is very hard, but at least it isnt be as easy and short as NSMB. The graphics 
 are good when you are in sugery, but everything else is just text and a non moving drawing . The 
 sound is good for a sugery game, but that doesnt mean all that much. I reccomend this game to anyone 
 that wants a challenge and wants to have some fun.
  
  PS: This game is very hard to find, so if you see it buy it 
::::::

::::::
UserName: wmg1299
Rating: 8.9
Date: Jun 19, 2006 12:28 am PT
Review:  Trauma Center is one of the few games that can only be described as a unique gaming experience. 
 While it offers more innovation and creativity than any title I have ever played, this does not 
 necessarily mean that it will be enjoyed by everyone who plays the game.
  The premise of surgery is a new one to most gamers, and this makes many aspects of the game difficult 
 to judge. It is hard for me to label the graphics as good or bad because I am not 100% sure 
 how the inner lining of the human stomach or throat is supposed to look. It is safe to call the 
 graphics beneficial to gameplay. This means that the graphics make it easy for the player to 
 locate the problem they are supposed to fix. While the graphics could definitely be more detailed, 
 this would probably make actual gameplay very difficult.
  The music and sound arent great, but they are a very minor part of the game. Almost all cut scenes 
 involve still images and printed text, with minimal voice acting. The various assistant characters 
 occasionally say one or two repetitive phrases during surgery that can become somewhat annoying.
 
  The controls are much more accurate than I first expected from a touch screen and stylus. This 
 is a nod to both the developers efforts and the quality design of the system. The glitch-free 
 control system allows gamers to focus on gameplay, but also forces them to take responsibility 
 for any in-game screw-ups. 
  My only problem with Trauma Center is that some of the instructions are vague or misleading. When 
 using the magnifier, you will be told to quickly make a small circle in the desired area. When 
 your first attempts fail, it is up to the player to figure out if the failure was caused by slow 
 performance time, improper placement, or poor circle technique or dimensions. Only after you play 
 through many failed attempts will players discover that instead of a circle, they should be drawing 
 a C shape. Properly applying stitches can also be amazingly hard at the end of an operation.
 
  The gameplay is addicting enough to make players continue playing even after multiple failures. 
 The DS uses short operation times (approx 5 minutes) , which makes multiple failures easier to deal 
 with. The soap opera style story can get very long-winded, but players always reserve the right 
 to quickly scroll through the written dialogue if they choose.
  Trauma Center offers a unique experience for gamers and is worth at least a rental for anyone with 
 a DS. The minor flaws do not detract from the fact that this game features what many players will 
 find to be addictive gameplay in a manner that is perfectly suited to a portable format. Basically, 
 if you like this game after playing it for 10 minutes, you will be hooked. If you hated it after 
 playing through the first operation you wont want to perform any others. A players individual 
 taste will determine if this game is a must own or a bust, but either way developers deserve credit 
 for the quality innovation it presents to gamers.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: NCAA06_dude
Rating: 7.8
Date: Jun 17, 2006 2:08 pm PT
Review:  Truama Center: Under the Knife for the nintendo DS, is a new and innonative genre that uses unique 
 features with the DS touch screen. You are a doctor, Derek Stiles, who is battling A terrorist orginization 
 who has realesed a virus that is deadly. Gameplay includes doing surgery, this includes of cutting, 
 lasering, bandeging, injecting, draining blood, and much more. The entire game is done with the 
 touch screen, with all the action on the bottom screen and the nurses screaming at you, on the 
 top. There are alot of levels and some levels you may not be doing surgery on a human, or it will 
 have special things you need to do, like operating on someone on a bumpy plane, and difusing a 
 bomb. The gameplay varies, making the game much more enjoyable. This isn't an ordinary Doctor game 
 either, most of the operations include removing Alien like creatures and other irregular things 
 from people.
  
  The review
  
  GAMEPLAY 8/10, All the tools and touch screen abilitys are done well, and i can't see how they 
 could've done better.
  
  GRAPHICS 7/10 This isn't the strongest part of the game, but hey, it gets the job done, and no 
 more.
  
  SOUND 7/10 The sounds in this sound exactly the same from Pheonix Wright, which makes me think 
 that they are re-used.
  
  VALUE 8/10 This game will last you for a very, very, long time because of its difficulty, but after 
 a while, you might just quit though. (quitters never win!)
  
  Overall this is an okay game, and im pretty sure that its rare, so I would advise you to pick it 
 up beacuse you may never have the chance to play it again. This will make a great addition to your 
 DS collection
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: DarkChaoMan75
Rating: 7.1
Date: Jun 17, 2006 9:38 am PT
Review:  A game that may be ahead of its time.
  
  Gameplay:
  Okay, the gameplay isn't the best and is extreamly complex. When you start your surgery you get 
 your patiance bio. Trust me, it doesn't make a difference. Then you finally get to cut open the 
 person and preform surgery. There are buttons on the side to show what tools you can use. They 
 are not labeled so you have to memorize what each one is. You basicly cut them open, remove something, 
 put some diseninfectent on them and say your going to live! The gamplay seems kind of stiched together 
 and not really taken its time to really fine tune it and make it a little more user friendly. After 
 you beat a level you can preform it agian in freeplay mode. In the end, if they had taken this 
 game a little farther in testing and made it more user friendly. Also, they could have made it 
 a little less harder. 
  7/10
  
  Graphics:
  Okay, for a DS game Tauma Center Under the Knife looks pretty good. There are some mayjor graphical 
 errors here and there. The talking scenes are really boring. Just keep hitting the stylus at the 
 bottom right hand corner and you can skip all of the annoying dialect. The people talking look 
 kind of cool and are funky anamie. This is kind of cool for the first talking bit then it is super 
 annoying. When you are playing the surgery itself, it doesn't look anything as good as other DS 
 games like Nintendogs. When the paicent starts bleeding the blood looks really bad. About 50 pixles 
 of red stuff spewing out. The texyures don't look as good as some other games. A wise man said 
 that graphics are no mater against good gameplay. Well, I would usually agree but with this game 
 the graphics don't look good enough that it is hard to tell which part of the body you are operating 
 on.
  6/10
  
  Sound:
  What do you want me to say? The sound isn't the best ever but it is better than everything else 
 about this game. There are no actual voice overs but the sound for the actions you preform during 
 surgery sound really well chipped toghether. Wait, I take that back. There is one word they say: 
 "Docter!" When you make a bad cut and the paicent starts bleeding, the sound becomes urgent and 
 the you can here the badly rendered blood spew out. When you are removing the tomber you can hear 
 the blood viens detach and break. Each tool has its own sound. When you are sucking our the blood 
 you can hear it squeek as it comes out. While the sound is good, that doesn't mean it goes without 
 flaw. The sound can be fuzzy when the music tries to go to a high note. Also, the music is really 
 super annoying. I think there is about 3 songs and they repeat those over and over and over. 
 
  8/10
  
  Value:
  Okay, the value is decent. Decent enough to get an 8. Another wise man once said that it doesn't 
 matter about the length of game, it is about the quality. Some game achieve the perfect balance 
 of quality and length like The Elder Scrolls 3 Morrowind and Battlefield 2. This game goes on the 
 long side and not much so high quality. Which isn't always bad thing but it isn't what everyone 
 may be used to. The single player is hard and long. I only got about half way and got stuck. I 
 returned it to gamefly. com. When it is so hard it will keep you playing becuase the gameplay is 
 really addictive if you get into it for long enough. They suposedly have an new Trauma Center game 
 planned for the Wii so I hope they fix alot of these problems in that game. 
  8/10
  
  Tilt:
  My personal opinion on this game is that it was ahead of its time and needed some fine 
 tuning. This isn't going to make me buy a Wii to play the next one but I would consider getting 
 a used copy of this game to play with in a few years. This game has its upside and downsides. It 
 is really fun and I gave it props for that and it has some really big flaws that I had to point 
 out. This game just seriesly needed one or two more weeks being tested in the focus groups I hope 
 were held. I don't think they where though. They would have pointed out alot of problems with this 
 game that really plauge it today. 
  7/10
  
  Wrap Up:
  This game would be a good time killer for a long plane flight or car ride. Other than that just 
 rent it and enjoy it for a few hours and sent it back and get your next game. In the end get for 
 a time killer and if you can get it cheap but other than that like I said, give it a pass or rent.
 
  
  Gameplay: 7/10
  Graphics: 6/10
  Sound: 8/10
  Value: 8/10
  Tilt: 7/10
  
  Result:
  7.1 
  Good 
::::::

::::::
UserName: w00t_2006
Rating: 9.6
Date: Jun 15, 2006 5:40 pm PT
Review:  Well, I've never played a game like this before. And MAN what a difference! This game is awesome. 
 You play as Dr. Stiles, a young man who works at Hope Hospital. Throughout the game, you take care 
 of patients with various problems. I got confused at the first patient. I had no idea what the 
 hell I was doing. But now I'm getting the hang of it. But regardless of my "so-called" skills, 
 this game is lots of fun and if you don't have it now, I suggest you try it, for it's really addicting 
 and you won't be able to put this down. Trauma Center gets a 5.... out of 5. (Sorry, I was watching 
 X-Play today. Or according to my score... a 9.6. (Oh and by the way, did I mention this game is 
 EXTREMELY HARD!) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: zemiguelsantos
Rating: 8.3
Date: Jun 6, 2006 6:06 pm PT
Review:  Trauma Center: Under the Knife is a very fun game, which lets you enjoy in a simple way, the act 
 of operating patients. Although, it is a medical game, it still does have a bit of story into it, 
 you start in Hope Hospital, where you are a regular doctor, and later move to Caduceus to combat 
 a strain of laboratory-created viruses!
  These viruses called GUILT are the most challenging part of the game; they consist in moving 
 tumours and little bugs inside your body that you have to eliminate and extract, in order to 
 save the patient.
  The game play of the game is very fluid and you use the touch screen to do everything. You have 
 2 columns of tools, one on the left and one on the right, with different types of medical tools. 
 From lasers to forceps and bistouries you have everything you need to operate a patient. The action 
 is done selecting the correct tool and making a distinct movement, for example to suture a wound 
 you zigzag your stylus in the top of the wound. 
  The graphics and the sound are fairly good, with suspense music during the operation, and the 
 constant beep of the patients cardiac beat. The graphics do their job with animated organs and 
 funny anime characters.
  Another point I would like to focus is the healing touch, which is a little help that you can use 
 if you are not succeeding in a particular operation. You can use it once in the operation and basically 
 it slows down time so you can operate faster. To use it you just press twice in the hand icon, 
 while operating, and draw a pentacle. 
  Ive also heard, that the game is difficult, but I have to partially disagree on that, I had to 
 repeat several times some operation, but it is not super-difficult, super-difficult is getting 
 a S Rank in all operations.
  I hope you enjoy this game!
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: melante
Rating: 6.2
Date: Jun 5, 2006 1:26 am PT
Review:  Probably many people would have liked to be a "cutting" (pun intended) edge surgeon at least once 
 in a lifetime so a game that finally allows all of us to "play doctor" is surely a great idea. 
 
  I was very excited to buy this game and I started playing it very happily but, unfortunately, after 
 the first chapters I was very disappointed. 
  The game actually leaves the "realistic" surgeon aspects very early to get into a sort of "paranormal" 
 surgeon game which I found completely silly: if I knew in advance that the operations consisted 
 in chasing little shark-looking creatures inside the lungs of patients with a laser..... well, 
 I'd have spent my savings on something else.
  
  Anyway, this is not a bad game at all and is quite fun to play thanks to the stylus, which is used 
 very intelligently, but simply don't expect a "real" and "serious" surgeon simulation. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Domstercool
Rating: 8.4
Date: Jun 1, 2006 5:51 am PT
Review:  
  
  Its time to put on those doctors gloves and rejoice because the first wave of quirky DS games 
 is finally hitting U. S soil.
  
  Trauma Center puts you in the shoes of an anime spiky haired hero Derek Stiles, a young surgeon 
 who works at Hope Hospital. Dr. Stiles is quite a carefree character whose carelessness nearly 
 costs a patients life. After this incident he decides to quit his profession, until something drastic 
 happens and causes him to finally awaken and reveal his super human powers, the Healing Touch, 
 a power that basically slows down time and allows him to react super quick in operations.
  
  The story is presented on the top screen, where anime style characters speak to each other 
 through stills and text. There isnt any voiceovers as such, just random words like Doctor! Look! 
 etc. The story is reasonably interesting, youll start by encountering your normal hospital nuisances 
 but as you travel deeper into the story youll encounter some crazy problems. I wont spoil much 
 but global medical terrorism and guilt will be a big thing youll come across. 
  
  All of the games operational action is done on the bottom screen with touch screen abilities. The 
 game offers the user ten different surgical instruments at your disposal, so you will be slicing 
 and dicing patients with your scalpel, picking out foreign objects with forceps and sucking up 
 blood like a starving vampire with your drainage device. You are introduced to all these medical 
 instruments while you are working on your patients. The Surgical Assistant, Mary Fulton will talk 
 you over what to do while you operate. This happens throughout the game but dont assume that because 
 she tells you what to do that the game will be easy. As you progress through the story youll witness 
 that the game gets increasingly tricky, the operations dont feel impossible, but you do get the 
 feeling that someone has just kicked you in the face, multiple times.
  
  Trauma Center wont be getting you a degree in medical science or be teaching you to actually do 
 real life operations; the game doesnt try to be too complex or deep. You basically just click 
 on one of the ten instruments and then do the required motion to use the item on your patient, 
 do it wrong and your patients vitals will drop. The patient has an electrocardiogram reading at 
 the top of the bottom screen, this alerts the user on how well the patient is doing, reach zero 
 or run out of time and you can say goodbye to your career.
  
  The patients you operate on are all fully displayed in 3D, while the graphics arent incredible 
 they do get the job done, and you can easily see what the models are trying to represent. Since 
 Trauma Center is an operation game, you would expect to see some of the red stuff, and youll be 
 pleased to hear that its included. It isnt over the top so you wont be getting zombie B-movie 
 style blood spewing out of the patients like a fountain, its just a simple cloud of blood that 
 appears above a wound and requires to be drained. The opposite could be said for the audio though, 
 whilst operating youll get to hear all the squishy squashy gooey noises that the game happily 
 presents to you.
  
  There isnt much audio included in the game. The score for the operations does its job well by 
 setting the mood, if something goes wrong it will speed up and try and get your heart pounding. 
 This merges exceptionally well into the gameplay; the frantic pace action along with the music 
 makes you get into the tempo, you actually feel like you are trying to save someones life, even 
 though somewhere deep within you know its just a videogame.
  
  Story mode will probably last a gamer around 7-9 hours. It isnt the only mode in the game either 
 as once youve healed patients in the story you then have the function of playing them again in 
 challenge mode. This mode is basically the same as the story mode, but without a story confusingly 
 enough. Youll be challenging the same patients but are trying to improve your scores. Trying to 
 get that S rank is tricky, its all about speed, accuracy and technique.
  
  Trauma Center: Under the Knife is one of those games that would only play so well on the Nintendo 
 DS. The touch screen helps the player take in the fast paced action of the game. Some slight problems 
 arise when you are trying to touch things that appear right at the top of the screen, it seems 
 not to function as well but its only a minor blooper and it appears only on the operations where 
 you have to zoom in (just moving the zoom sorts the problem out) . 
  
  Atlus have supplied an incredibly enjoyable game that feels like a mix of an adventure puzzler. 
 The idea may not be totally new but the way it is implemented with the touch screen makes it feel 
 like a fresh experience that you wont be able to feel on another system. Go on, save someones 
 life. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Yukaimk
Rating: 8.8
Date: May 28, 2006 11:41 am PT
Review:  After some thorough playing of this game i decided now would be a good time to write a review on 
 Atlus's surgical DS outing. 
  
  I must say it's a breath of fresh air for the touch screen console that we were promised so much 
 innovation with.
  The main bulk of the game is fairly engaging, initially battling real life injuries and illness. 
 (Accidents, tumors, heart failure etc etc) While some of these initial missions strike a good balance 
 between being challenging and playable, other are just too difficult for their own good without 
 constant replaying. 
  
  However that's just the start of it, as you get onto the missions tackling the GUILT virus (the 
 main part of the game) you will find the difficulty level ramps up to scary levels at points. Persistence 
 pays however, and if you stick with it you'll feel immensely satisfied after you beat a mission 
 you've had trouble with.
  
  Graphics are you typical "manga style" animations during the story sequences and surgery is performed 
 in nice basic 3d with some effects for the blood and various body fluids. 
  
  Sounds is also pretty limited but still retains a nice sense of tension whilst playing. 
  
 
  Overall Trauma Center is a rewarding gem of a DS title if you have the time and patience for multiple 
 retries of some of the harder missions. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: minks00
Rating: 7.5
Date: May 24, 2006 7:32 am PT
Review:  Where this game revels in its use and functioning of the DS touch screen, it falls down in two 
 vital parts - repetition and what happens in between each stage. The dialogue is far too long - 
 what's worse, you have to sit through it all. The games themselves are fun, but I think they could 
 have developed the idea a bit further instead of basing the whole thing on one 'infection', therefore, 
 some stages suffer bad repetition. I was expecting something nearer the 'theme hospital' route 
 - i. e. being able to manage staff, etc. and the storyline is a lot more linear and fixed than I 
 thought it would be. 
  I would say this is a hard game - unless you have lightening speed with your stylus, and there 
 are more than a couple of stages which will take you a while to complete. This is great if you 
 really love a challenge, but after a while it can just get outright frustrating. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Nintendo_link3
Rating: 9.4
Date: May 17, 2006 1:44 pm PT
Review:  This Game is amazing, Hightlly adictive and if you own a Nintendo Ds system you HAVE to try traum 
 center!!! The story is great, the gameplay is amazing and the graphics arent bad at all.
  
  the only bad thing about the game is that sometimes the difficulty is a bit to hight but the gamplay 
 is so addictive that you won't quiet!
  
  The characters are really cool! you actually get to like them and they make you feel like a real 
 doctor!
  
  Some of the operations are So cool that you actually begin to swet like a real doctor would do!
 
  
  And my parants loved the game (surprisingly... LOL) and they play it alot! (miricle)
  
  JUST GET UR ASS ON IN A SHOP AND BUY TRAUMA CENTER!! Deffinetly worht it!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Murray_f150
Rating: 9.7
Date: May 8, 2006 3:37 pm PT
Review:  This game is revolutionary. It takes full advantage of the touch screens. And the medil approach 
 is fantastic . The graphics arent that bad either. This game has an awesome story and te gameplay 
 is magneficent i love this game it makes me feel like a real surgeon. And thats what games are 
 about making it as real as possible. The best thing about this game is the story The story seems 
 so real and inspiring. The way they grasp your mind and wrap around the stroy is immersive,.,.,.,, I 
 guarentee you willadore this game and never stop playing it it is amazing. 
  ';';;';;
  
  _.`M, a: [Tt] 
::::::

::::::
UserName: zek_friki
Rating: 9
Date: May 7, 2006 10:49 am PT
Review:  I love this game, and I love the feeling of responsability that you have when you are treating 
 patient. If you fail, the patient dies, and game over. So you are reponsible for a patient's life.... cool!! 
 Its kinda hard when you start treating patients, and all seems confusing, but when ou play a little 
 bit you discover that its easy and funny. Graphically its not a wonder, but the gameplay its really 
 fantastic and the sound submerges you in a constant tension atmosphere. Just one thing, if you 
 start playing it you wont be able to stop until you finish the game, so take it easy and enjoy 
 the game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: KrawkGolfer
Rating: 8
Date: May 7, 2006 6:33 am PT
Review:  I just recently picked up this game (and I love puzzle games!) . When I started playing, I thought, 
 "Hmm, a puzzle game that involves surgery... interesting..." A little down the road... the dramatic 
 music plays (the music heard in the "game trailer") ! My adrenaline pumps, I start thinking, "what 
 if this surgery goes wrong," and all sorts of stuff like that! The time for surgery comes... I 
 take a deep breath and operate... I finish the operation with only 20 seconds to spare!! "Oh, god!! 
 That was too close!" The point of that story is, this game is good! Now, onto WHY this game is 
 good! First off, the music is very appropriate. The music is very dramatic! The sound effects are 
 a little gross, but if you can get past them, they're actually okay! Next, the graphics. These 
 aren't the best graphics, but are highly detailed and make the game much easier to play (it's good 
 having good graphics to see what you are doing!) . The only complaints I have are with the game 
 play and challenge. The game play is a little akward, because you have a "miss limit" (make too 
 many mistakes and your patient dies!) . The challenge ITSELF is extreme!! Some of the operations 
 (the kid with the spikes and the bomb) are more than extremely hard that they can be called nearly 
 IMPOSSIBLE! And, just to get by, I had to resort to an FAQ (and I RARELY need an FAQ's help!!) ! 
 But, all-in-all, it is a fun game with really good puzzles. If you want a great game for your DS, 
 TC: UtK is the definite way to go! You will probably become almost addicted as I am to this game! 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: revolutionrulez
Rating: 9.7
Date: May 5, 2006 5:50 am PT
Review:  this is a great new idea for a game and it works wonderfully on the ds because of the touch screen.
 
  trauma centre ds ... you are the doctor that is all there is to it 
  you start off as a doctor in a hospital the first few levels are like a tutorial then you need 
 to operate without people telling you what to do and the operations get a lot harder as you go 
 on. there lives are in your hands. and if you mess up the operation you can just start it again 
 and make sure to save after every operation because if you dont then you will have to do the operations 
 again and all the hard work goes out the window so buy this game it is a brand new idea never seen 
 before and it works ... lets see psp deliver anything like this 
::::::

::::::
UserName: PAJ89
Rating: 8.5
Date: May 16, 2006 9:43 am PT
Review:  One thing you can say for sure about Trauma Centre: Under the Knife (TC) is that it has to be the 
 first surgery game ever created. What a crazy idea for a video game. True, it's quite a departure 
 from conventional games, but it is a very good game that will probably become quite difficult to 
 track down (Atlus games tend to have a low print run) . Anyway, on with the review.
  
  You are Derek Stiles, a rookie doctor working in Hope Hospital. After recently finishing his training 
 Derek is about to be thrown into the deep end, making life or death operations and even helping 
 to combat "medical terrorism" in the form of the GUILT virus (which you'll encounter early on in 
 the game) . The story is pretty basic I guess, but it almost seems like an episode of ER or something 
 what with all the dramatic cut scenes (which are well drawn in an anime style) .
  
  TC is comprised of a story mode spanning a good number of operations, about thirty or so, and a 
 challenge mode where you can replay past operations and aim to get an S-Rank. Anyway, the action 
 takes place on the touch screen with information on the top screen. You have ten tools available 
 to help you open up a patient, cure his or her ailment, and sow said patient up. These include 
 a scalpel to make incisions, a laser to burn away tumours, antibiotics to heal wounds, etc. Though 
 the operations start out easy enough, things start getting difficult quick. TC will test your hand-eye 
 co-ordination to the extreme (especially when attempting to get an S-Rank) . The conditions for 
 success are as follows: don't let the patients vitals drop below zero or you fail. Run out of time 
 and you fail. Incur more misses than the operation allows (eg. cutting an organ by accident) and 
 you fail. There might also be operation specific goals. There is a great variety of things you 
 have to cure. Early on you deal with things like extracting glass from an arm, but later you need 
 to work fast to excise different strains of the GUILT complex. The variety of ways in which you 
 use the touch screen in TC is a joy as it really takes advantage of what the DS can do. You'll 
 find you have to perform a lot of different procedures in a single operation and this keeps the 
 game varied. Its so very satisfying to beat some of the later missions as they really will test 
 your hand-eye co-ordination and your patience.
  
  The action on the touch screen is 3D. It's decently done. Good enough so you know what you are 
 operating on but not good enough so you don't feel sick with all the blood, etc. The sound is pretty 
 basic. The music that plays during surgery is tense and atmospheric, though the cut scene themes 
 are bland. Sound effects are pretty good too; for incisions, injections, etc.
  
  Overall TC is a great game that takes full advantage of the touch screen technology. It manages 
 to provide a good game system that is challenging (too much at times perhaps) and keep a relatively 
 strong story going via dramatic cut scenes. The operations are also very varied and there is a 
 lot to do. If you have some patience and crave a challenge, this is the game for you. The only 
 negative thing I have to say is that beyond perfecting your scores and achieving S-Ranks there 
 isn't much replay value. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sergioalb64
Rating: 8.4
Date: May 3, 2006 12:33 am PT
Review:  Wow.
  Wow.
  This game is so hard, yet so awesome.
  If you're wondering if you can cut people open, extract tumors, drain blood, suture wounds, and 
 kill viruses, yes you can, and you will, and you will love it.
  The game stars Derek Stiles [Stylus, anyone?] , a young doctor in Angele's Bay's Hope Hospital. 
 You start with simple procedures such as taking shards of glass away from the skin and other simple 
 stuff. But don't be fooled; the game picks up pace quite fast. The story moves along quite quickly 
 too. I won't spoil anything, but the story is very deep and interesting, although a bit quirky. 
 
  So how do you operate? Everything's done on the Touch Screen, and you use the stylus for everything; 
 scapel, sutures, seringes, drains, antibiotic gel, bandages and more. You'll have to move very 
 very fast on the last missions, though, so be ready for a challenge; a very challening challenge.
 
  Unfortunately, the game falls a bit on the short side; it'll take you between 8-10 hours to beat 
 it, and although there's a Challenge Mode for score improvement, it deosn't add anything new to 
 the mix.
  The graphics in the game [Anime-style] are very good, very realistic but nothing out of this world. 
 The sound is very good too, and adds emotion and feel to the game.
  The value might be a bit low, but you'll love your time with this game, and you can do what I did; 
 wait a couple of months before playing it again, and you'll be hooked again. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jareth86
Rating: 8.5
Date: Apr 29, 2006 1:10 pm PT
Review:  thankfully the graphics weren't as gross as i thought they would be when i bought the game cuz 
 i have a weak stomach^^'but the sound effects are kinda gay cuz all u hear is chirping but when 
 u mute it, its more entertaining and i luv sound! if ur not careful with your controller you can 
 slice your patient to ribbons... i know i've done it... the shame the guilt! its like a soap opera 
 of japanese medical work... which doesnt bother me! its like the game operation when u hear a buzz 
 it all goes wrong... like slicing your patient in this game^^'i have played and beaten this 3 times 
 already and still havent tired of it! i give it an 8.5 its really addictive! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ramonsusin
Rating: 9.9
Date: Apr 25, 2006 8:24 am PT
Review:  This is one of the best games ever!! You feel like if you were operating a real person, it's amazing! 
 And that's not all; the difficulty is quiet hard, and that makes the game even better, because 
 i'm tired of playing so many games that are too easy.
  The control given is very real, because you operate in a real way. If you couldn't be a dortor, 
 now it's your chance to be one.
  I give this game a 9.9 because of all the little details that shows to us, and i sadi before, it's 
 one of the best games i've ever played on a handled console. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tbui54
Rating: 7.1
Date: Jun 12, 2006 12:37 am PT
Review:  THE GOOD: Completely unique game. Interesting use of the stylus.
  
  THE BAD: Frustrating surgeries. Frequent retries. Overly difficult.
  
  Trauma Center: Under 
 the Knife is one of a kind game that makes full use of the Nintendo DS.
  
  GAMEPLAY is often too difficult for its own good. This is partly because the stylus at times doesn't 
 feel accurate. However, it is the time limits that can become insanely frustrating and it will 
 lose many people from wanting to finish the game. It also doesn't help that the more difficult 
 surgeries don't give you advice on how to proceed and that patients will die in a matter of seconds 
 if you do something wrong.
  
  GRAPHICS are good. For the most part anime still pictures are displayed during text dialogue and 
 the game is mixed in with some 3D environments and surgery scenes. It's nothing fancy, but it works 
 good enough.
  
  SOUND is decent. The music gets really intense when the patient is in trouble and at the brink 
 of death. It does a good job at making the situation feel dire and full of pressure. However, like 
 most DS games, it has limited voice acting which is a shame because it would have made it more 
 lively.
  
  VALUE isn't that great. Once you finish the each surgery, there isn't any real incentive to replay 
 them to get a better score unless you're some sort of perfectionist. Furthermore, it won't take 
 long to beat the game so there isn't much to do after you finish.
  
  OVERALL Trauma Center has an interesting concept, and makes good use of the DS touch screen. Yet, 
 the game is overly difficult and as a result, the game isn't as fun as it could have been. It's 
 strongly suggested to rent the game instead of buying it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: glitchgeeman
Rating: 8.9
Date: Apr 19, 2006 5:14 pm PT
Review:  In Trauma Center, you play as a young doctor who has just become a surgeon. At first, he takes 
 everything easy but after nearly causing the death of a patient, this all changes. It seems he 
 has the special ablity to move his hands extremely fast and perform operations beyond human capabilities. 
 When a bio virus infects the world, it's up to him to find the cure.
  
  The game is definitely very hard and the operations near the end of the game will probably take 
 3+ tries to succeed. But if you stick with it, this game can become very rewarding and a fun experience.
 
  
  You use the touch screen to perform operations such as using a scalpel, injecting fluids, using 
 tweezers, and even a laser. Each operation will require different tools and one will need to know 
 how to use them all effectively. 
  
  Trauma Center: Under the knife is a fun challenging experience that everyone with a ds should at 
 least try out. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Nalanji
Rating: 9.8
Date: Apr 17, 2006 5:38 pm PT
Review:  One of the best games ever created! This is probably the most creative game I think i've ever seen 
 or played. The difficulty is actually very high... but a good high. I always want to finish an 
 operation sucessfully, but sometimes I get confused! But, otherwise the story is creative, and 
 fun to play along with. The art is top quality for the DS, which if you compare to other consoles 
 it is sub-par. I grabbed one of the last copies in my area... well, THE last in my area. I am so 
 happy I got it and would reccomend that EVERYONE looks for it at a store near you! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lettyjb
Rating: 9.4
Date: Jun 6, 2006 2:07 pm PT
Review:  This is another game that I've got under recommendation instead of by personal interest, but it 
 really paid off.
  The way the game was made is very good, it is easy to follow the instructions and learn how you 
 are supposed to act. But at the same time it is not that easy. From each operation you pass you 
 learn something, like a new method, and the next time you face this problem, you'll handle it on 
 your own, and each time it gets more difficult.
  After each operation, you are rated, and there is another mode - besides the story mode - the "challenge" 
 where you can redo the operations you already succeeded in the story mode in order to raise your 
 rank, so, trying to succeed in all operations with a rank S, will give you a lot of extra hours 
 of tense and fun gameplay.
  The proprieties of the DS are well explored as you use the touch screen all the time, during the 
 whole game. The graphics are really good and the story is interesting. It is a very different game 
 that will surely entertain anyone (e. g: my brother is a doctor, a surgeon, and was also enjoying 
 himself playing this game) . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: psychopete011
Rating: 8.5
Date: Apr 13, 2006 4:54 pm PT
Review:  When you think of the Nintendo DS' position in a PSP world, consider this: the PSP has many games 
 that are basically bland in development. The DS stands as the creative market. This is where Trauma 
 Center: Under the Knife, comes in. This unique game is one of the apexes of the DS' capabilities 
 with the touch screen.
  
  If you couldn't guess, Trauma Center: Under the Knife is a surgery game. You play as rookie surgeon 
 Derek Stiles. He discovers that he is a special human being, capable of using the Healing Touch, 
 which is able to slow down time. But, he also discovers something else. He discovers that a virus 
 worse than AIDS known as GUILT is spreading. After operating on a GUILT victim without knowing 
 what it was, he and his assistant Angie Thompson transfer to Caduceus USA, an incredibly well known 
 front on the battlefield against disease. He is then to fight GUILT, which is spreading.
  
  Trauma Center: Under the Knife has a story that will win no awards, but the gameplay is defiantly 
 the best part. You use the touch screen to perform all surgical actions. The unique thing is, that 
 instead of the game doing the work for you, you do the work. For example, to remove glass from 
 a persons arm, you need to tap the forceps icon, click on the glass shard, pull it out the right 
 way, and drag it onto the plate. For these operations, you gain access to 10 surgical tools. Those 
 tools are a laser, needle & thread, a scalpel, a syringe, medical tape, a magnifying glass, forceps, 
 a drain, your own hand, and antibiotic gel. Each item has multiple uses, and you will defiantly 
 need to use the thread & needle as well as the scalpel and antibiotic gel in each operation. But, 
 you are probably asking yourself, What is the function of the top screen? The top screen is where 
 your assistant gives you messages, as well as showcases your time limit, miss limit, & operation 
 score.
  
  The difficulty range can be a bit frantic at points. For the first few operations, the nurse is 
 literally having it so you make no mistakes. Afterwards, if you play for awhile, you end up at 
 an operation you will always fail on. These operations end up having you test your reflexes, but 
 it is defiantly not a simulation as more of a puzzle game in the end. The game, though, no matter 
 how fast your reflexes, can be impossible at some points. For example, during one mission, you 
 have to fight a strain of the GUILT virus known as Triti, in which you remove thorns from triangular 
 shaped membranes, cut those, and then excise them. The problem is that they keep multiplying. The 
 more the virus expands, the worse your patients vitals will be. But when you leave it alone, the 
 triangular section will multiply. And to make matters worse, once specific, always regenerating 
 cell always deals massive damage to your patients vitals. This is proof that the game forces you 
 to work fast and diligently.
  
  As for length, Trauma Center is pretty short. After 6 chapters, all with subchapters, a lot of 
 them story, and its over. But to add to replay value, there is Challenge mode you can use to improve 
 your score and unlock new operations. Even though it may sound useless, it adds to the addictiveness 
 of the game. Overall, Trauma Center: Under the Knife may not be used as a medical teaching school 
 (except in malpractice doctoring schools in Mexico) , but it is way better than ER. In fact, its 
 better than most DS games.
  
  GRADE: A
  PROS: Addicting, challenging, unique, actually a gripping story
  CONS: Too short, not an accurate 
 doctoring representation 
::::::

::::::
UserName: OmataSSKKorosu
Rating: 8.3
Date: Apr 6, 2006 6:28 pm PT
Review:  Trauma Center: Under the Knife is designed by Atlus Co. It is intended to play on the Nintendo 
 DS.
  
  This game is a simulation game based on human surgery. The objective of the game is do surgery 
 on a human and successfully complete the operation according to whatever disease could it be, let 
 it be tumors or even glass shards. This game takes place in the future, though, so naturally, surgery 
 and medicine would be more modern and efficient, which explains why there are only 10 tools to 
 use during an operation. Of course, as there's new treatments, there's also bigger threats, in 
 which will be explained right below in it's storyline.
  
  The year in this game is 2018. A new plague has come to threaten humanity. This disease is known 
 as GUILT (Gangliated Utrophin Immuno Latency Toxin) . Rumor has it this GUILT was made for medical 
 terrorism. A semi-convert organization known as Caduceus in which researches and treats incurable 
 diseases is on that case. They've managed to keep the GUILT news from being heard in public so 
 far, but they haven't found a cure for it, either.
  Derek Styles, the game's protagonist, has joined Hope Hospital. Things have changed since...
 
  
  The usual routine in the game is to hear the story dialogue, do a surgery and repeat. The dialogue 
 is there to progress the storyline while the surgeries are the main thing about the game, as you 
 will be the surgeon.
  
  The game plays with two screens. The bottom screen shows the surgical area you're performing on 
 the patient as well as your tools. You will be operating on the patient with the stylus, let it 
 be applying antibiotic gel, opening an area with the scalpel or even laser some parts. There is 
 also a heart meter in which is the vitals meter. If these vitals drop to 00, you have failed the 
 operation. On the top screen, you will have your time limit and miss limit. You will fail if the 
 time limit reaches 00:00:00 or you've done enough mistakes. Aside from limits, you will also see 
 your assistant instructing you what to do. Keep in mind that even if it sounds easy with your assistant 
 telling you what to do, it isn't easy performing it yourself. As the game progresses, the surgeries 
 will become harder and harder to perform to the point you may even throw your system in frustration. 
 Self-discipline is a must.
  
  For graphics, everything looks just how it's supposed to be. Everything is identifiable and your 
 assistant (s) are drawn in an anime style. Sounds are brilliantly used in the game, as there's sounds 
 for lasers, scalpel-cutting, blood draining, etc. The music helps give you feel tension as you 
 work on the patient. And when something critical happens, you can feel that you're in a race against 
 time. Very well done.
  
  To conclude: Trauma Center: Under the Knife is an interesting and fun game. If you're not fond 
 of unreal diseases, then you may not like this game. People may put it down for it's incredibly 
 hard challenge, though. If you're looking for a challenge to satisfy yourself with, then pick this 
 game up. I will guarantee you that you'll have a wonderful time testing your patience and reflexes 
 with it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jekyll
Rating: 8.2
Date: Apr 3, 2006 11:58 am PT
Review:  The addition of the touchscreen to video gaming has sadly created a number of games that shoehorn 
 controls into a touch mode just to get put out on the DS. Trauma Center reverses that trend with 
 gameplay that, while perfectly suited to the touchscreen, would've felt clunky on a standard console's 
 controller. Even better, while tough in spots, and a little short, the game is very fun, especially 
 for those with an interest in science or medicine.
  
  You play as Derek Stiles, a young doctor at Hope Hospital. Starting with simple operations that 
 teach you the basics of operating and how to use your various implements (including surgical lasers, 
 forceps, and hypodermics) you rapidly gain confidence in yourself, and from those around you. Eventually, 
 the game breaks into fictional territory, as you essentially do battle against 'medical terrorism' 
 in the form of GUILT, a series of particularly devastating illnesses engineered to end the human 
 race. But you've got an ace up your sleeve: you've been blessed with the 'Healing Touch,' an intense 
 concentration that allows you to operate super fast once per operation (implemented in "Six Million 
 Dollar Man" fashion by slowing down all around you) . Can you wisely use your powers to save victims 
 long enough for the source to be found, and an end brought to this scourge?
  
  The most impressive thing about the game is the use of the touchscreen. Never has control felt 
 so intuitive. Slicing a patient open by making a slicing motion across the touchscreen with your 
 stylus is incredibly natural, as is tapping it to fire your surgical laser or apply a dab of antibiotic 
 gel. The graphics are detailed enough to look reasonably realistic, but not so real as to induce 
 nausea in those made easily queasy. The story itself is fun, and the medical terrorism aspect eerily 
 grabs your attention and makes you want to solve it, as you can't help but wonder if things like 
 these aren't being developed in an Afghani cave right now. And while there is a fictional aspect 
 to the game, you still do tons of real-life medical things; it's just the context in which you 
 need to do them that's fantasy.
  
  The difficulty is a downside to the game, as some later levels will leave you screaming in frustration 
 as you desperately race to cure your patient, only to have them deteriorate more quickly than you 
 can keep up, and only getting faster with the controls, to a degree that would be unsafe in an 
 actual operating room, will save you. There are times you wish icons for items unneeded for a particular 
 operation weren't there, or that you could at least move them around, especially when a procedure 
 only needs 4 or 5 items and you'd like them all on the same side of the screen. There isn't a big 
 focus on sound, and while a bit more audio from people would've been nice, the medical sounds are 
 decent enough. Another frustrating aspect comes in replay via the challenge mode, where you can 
 replay old operations. Though you know exactly what to do, still having the nurse and others repeat 
 the advice they gave you in the game, which you no longer need and have to tap an area of the screen 
 to advance through, is highly intrusive and really just breaks your rhythm.
  
  Overall, the gameplay and story combines to make you feel very doctor-like, and anyone can really 
 jump in and get the hang of the game quickly, though mastery will take some time. The pleasant, 
 well-done anim graphics give the game a distinct Japanese vibe, though it is set in America. The 
 sound could've been bit better, but it does still convey what it needs to, especially the nurse 
 chastising you for letting the vitals slip too low. Sadly, the story mode can be knocked out in 
 only about 8 hours, depending on how dexterous you are at maneuvering the stylus, and the challenge 
 mode's previously mentioned unskippable nurse instructions may be too frustrating for some to feel 
 like taking advantage of. I also can't help but wonder what some sort of wireless 'two doctor' 
 mode might've added to the game. Still, fans of "ER" or medicine in general, and anyone looking 
 for a game like none other out on the market, will likely get a real kick out of this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: darklord_toccsn
Rating: 8.8
Date: Mar 27, 2006 4:47 pm PT
Review:  Trauma Center: Under the Knife begins with a very entertaining bunch of medical fun before the 
 real challenge begins with the Virus GUILT. Guilt are each unique creating some nice varying gameplay 
 and each are growing in difficulty from the last until you get to brain numbingly difficult gameplay 
 in which you will SCREAM at your DS for many hours until victory ensues out of that one right move. 
 The control is perfect and with a large amount of moves at your disposal Trauma Center is also 
 a mind game of sorts. But, there is one thing that bothers me, why are some of the moves completely 
 ignored in the most dire of situations? Like I don't know.... the ability to bring people back to 
 life! It just bothers me how they don't even give you a chance of doing it, of course the patient 
 dying isn't the main worry.. ITS THE EXTREMELY SHORT TIEM LIMITS. But, other than the difficulty 
 of the game created by these problems the game the game is quite fun and rewarding for people who 
 decide to keep going and keep testing themselves. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DarkKefka
Rating: 8.2
Date: Mar 18, 2006 9:27 am PT
Review:  Since the release of the Nintendo DS, the handheld phenomenon has been the house of some of the 
 craziest, yet fun and simple games. Trauma Center: Under the Knife [TCUK] may not be that weird 
 but using the stylus to operate and save the world from a doctors perspective is quite unique 
 and shows that the gaming industry has place for innovation. 
  
  You play in a near future, where science has eradicated some diseases that were incurable in the 
 past, like VIH. You control a young carefree doctor Derek Stiles. You start off simple as a regular 
 doctor in a regular hospital. But one day a patient needs makes you aware of the Healing 
 Touch power, which lets you concentrate so much that you can move super-fast. After 
 that GUILT is released in some patients around the world and you are one of the few ones that know 
 how to treat the lethal disease. 
  
  The games story is one of its main points. The variety of characters and locations or the 
 number of different scenarios you are going to be in. It also has some twists and turns that you 
 wouldnt expect. Itself the story is good, but sometimes the heavy reading can turn the game 
 really slow [just press Select to make the text faster] .
  
  The game uses a simple [yet lush] anime-style environment. The top screen shows all of the text 
 [a lot of text] and the lower screen shows the body of the patient or the map. All images are well 
 drawn and very bright. You control the game using the DSs touch screen and thats 
 all; you can also use the buttons and D-Pad but for limited use only outside the operation. 
  
  Now for the main part: operating. As you can imagine the game is based around saving patients 
 from diseases and other malfunctions of the human body. The action of the game is divided in five 
 parts: Progression and Map Screen / Conversations, which is the part where the game shows you where 
 you are [or where are you going] and most of the talk is made in this part. Operation Briefing, 
 here various characters of the game will tell you what and how you are going to operate. Procedure, 
 the actual operation. And finally the Results Screen, here the game shows you how well you did 
 and gives you points based on your performance. When operating the screen [touch screen] is going 
 to have 2 main parts: the vertical buttons where you use all your medical items such as lasers, 
 scalpels and some ambiotic gel. And the body here you are going to use the items with precision 
 in the indicated part, like draining blood or just stitching a wound. 
  
  The graphics of the game arent really the best that the DS can offer. But they do a pretty 
 well job in creating the bodies and making you believe you are a real doctor saving the world one 
 patient at a time. So dont worry about throwing up because of blood or other things. As 
 for the sound again it isnt the best youll find. The game has some tunes that keep 
 you concentrated and create a really good work of keeping you tense [in a good way of saving your 
 patient] , but some of the tunes get repetitive and dont work very well at the end of the 
 game. There are some voice clips that you can hear throughout an operation such as Doctor!, 
 Be careful and such. So you wont be bored by the sound, just not amazed by 
 it.
  
  If one thing that may make you hate this game it would be that TCUK is on the hard side. But hear 
 this: there are three hard things in the game: completing the operation before the time limit, 
 doing the right thing in the operation and keeping the patient alive. I can assure you that you 
 will [at least] fail in an operation. As for replay value, well you got the challenge mode where 
 you redo all of the operations that you already completed in Story Mode. 
  
  Another bad thing is that the game tends to slow down sometimes if there's a lot of action in the 
 touch screen, but you wont be seeing slow downs at the begging of the game; since only after being 
 half-way trough the game is very hard.
  
  As an overall game is a really good game with some bad aspect that otherwise they would have made 
 the overall experience a lot more enjoyable. So as final words this game is for anyone that has 
 a DS and loves E. R. and anime. We hope to see more refreshing ideas for games like this one in 
 the future, simple and crazy but highly fun.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: flinnha
Rating: 6.9
Date: Mar 17, 2006 2:04 pm PT
Review:  A game unlike any other, this reallly utilizes the DS touchscreen to it's full extent. A little 
 on the tough side so you'll have to practice some operations multiple times before being able to 
 pass them. There's a good variety of instruments to use from the scalpal to suction to stitching 
 and bandaging. I would like to have seen a little less linear plot however, as you just go from 
 one operation to the next with WAY too much dialog in between. I would prefer a game where I could 
 look at a list of patients and decide who to operate on. Also most of the game is spent operating 
 on a ficticous disease known as "guilt" instead of real life traumas which I found ot be a little 
 lame. It's worth a play just for the unique experience though. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: KendoKenshi_TK
Rating: 8.5
Date: Feb 26, 2006 6:08 am PT
Review:  This game is one of the games I own that I love. You might want to have good hand eye quardination 
 though. One of the things I like about this game is that you cannot skate on through. You definately 
 will get stuck evey so often. A cool feature is the rating system which adds replay value, but 
 what I thought was the coolest part of the game was the briefing. This made you feel like a real 
 surgeon and uses a lot of cool medical terms. Take note of this if you do get the game you should 
 really read the briefing not just skip it. In the end it's alright and is definately worth checking 
 out. Rent it first. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Maluigi
Rating: 8.7
Date: Feb 25, 2006 7:57 pm PT
Review:  Trauma Center: Under the Knife is one of the best puzzle games for the DS. You are put in the position 
 of a rookie doctor, and you are about to operate on one of your first patients. You are aided by 
 a nurse. Her name is Mary, and she's the one who tells you what to do , when to do it, and why 
 you're doing it (weird huh?) . You learn how to remove tumors, and glass, how to stop blood clots, 
 and all of this other doctor stuff. The game itself is an amazing achievement, and it's unique 
 gameplay is so entertaining and puzzling that even my mom enjoys it! The graphics are 2 and 3D, 
 just like most games. The sound really intrigued me. It was fun and unpredictable, yet it still 
 fit the game's doctor type theme. The game, altogether, succeeds in making an enjoyable experience 
 that can be recommended to those otherwise uninterested in puzzle or doctor games (not that there's 
 much doctor games out anyway!) . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: YuriaTayde
Rating: 8.2
Date: Feb 19, 2006 6:03 pm PT
Review:  Not to say it's a bad game, it's really really fun, but when you consider how many times I've replayed 
 the 1st chapter because it's the most fun, it's just a game that could have been done much, much 
 better.
  
  You start out the steriotype lil kid prodagy out to save the world, honestly how this dunce made 
 it threw medical school, anybodies guess. But it works out okay because you're a newbie too, and 
 the very first time you play threw, all the talk while the nurse is telling you what to do really 
 helps alot. They don't give you anything you can't handle right away, very friendly learning curve, 
 two thumbs up. 
  
  HOWEVER, and many others have complained about this too, chapter 1 is the only chapter that maintains 
 any realism. After that, GUILT shows up and you, for some reason, well, I don't wanna give out 
 any spoilers, but very little of the game is performed on an operating table, even though the whole 
 game is about sergery. Combat medic? I wish, you just happen to find lots of GUILT victums.
  
  Furthermore, there's 7 types of GUILT! So after you're done curing all the wounds from a car 
 accadent the whole game is just chasing down this terrorist organization making new viruses, sept, 
 a doctor chasses after them, and you're just following a trail of corpses. It doesn't make all 
 that much sence, as I said, realism goes completely out the window.
  
  The GUILT viruses arn't really that much fun eather, they're challenging, but I'd prefer to heal 
 injuries a little more often. Here's a short list of things they DIDN'T put in the game that would 
 have been so cool:
  
  Paramedic Missions: There isn't a single ambulence in the whole game, even though there is a level 
 in a moving shaking vehicle. You wouldn't be able to perform dirrect internal careful sergery in 
 a moving vehicle like this, but it would be interesting to have a mission or two where you're simply 
 trying to keep the patient alive until you arrive at the hospital. THEN you save 'em.
  
  Broken Bones: People debate over how the 10 tools you're given could do this, pfft, easy, open 
 'em up, pick out the shards, then use your hand tool to draw the bones together. Sew 'em up, apply 
 gauss generously. Easy.
  
  Gunshot Wounds: Closest thing you get is pulling out glass, that's really fun and all but, yeah...
 
  
  That's all the further I wanna get into that. Moral of the story, they just didn't go into the 
 whole "doctor" thing as far as I wish they did.
  
  Another case of unrealism, the diseases! Two of the 7 GUILT strands are notoriously unrealistic. 
 Not to say they're the only cases of unrealism, they're just the biggest cases of suck. I'll point 
 them out now and try not to give too many spoilers:
  
  2nd GUILT is a mobile tumor they say, but when you get inside it's more like a moving vortex of 
 germs... They come in sets of two, and they hate eachother... It just makes absolutely no sence, 
 if the only way to cure this GUILT is to make it kill itself, why inject both types into the patient?
 
  7th GUILT: Final bossguy-ish, how can I say this without giving spoilers... The patent has a flaming 
 super evil inside of it, powerful enough to destroy your tools. But the patent is superman. Seriously, 
 go ahead, go crazy with the scalpul on the patient, because you can't hurt 'em.
  
  Anywho, enough with the bad side, I gotta say something good about it too. It's fun, omg, even 
 though the lack of realism gets on MY nerves, I'm just picky like that! When you really get into 
 it, your stylus really flies over the screen at impressive speeds as you follow routine procedures 
 gone terrably wrong, battle viruses in an almost FPS style, the music sucks you in, the drama! 
 The whole deal is really exciting... I can't play it for very long at a time, because it's an INTENCE 
 game, and I'm pretty sure it could give nightmares to the weak of heart.
  
  Play with caution, BUY, don't rent. Replay value? Yes. ^_^ 
  
  ... Trust my oppinion? Maybe. 
 ^.^;;;
  
  Sidenote: once I finally get done with the game I'ma trade it with my friend for phoenix wright. 
 Both of them are MUST PLAYS in my oppinion, so maybe not a bad idea if you know somebody you could 
 trade with. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: eppy105
Rating: 9.6
Date: Feb 11, 2006 6:52 am PT
Review:  This is probably the best DS game I have played. It is fun, creative, and keeps you on the edge 
 of your seat. There are many a times when the patients life is going away very quickly, that you, 
 as a real person, will begin panicking! It is a pretty good Sim too, because most of the stuff 
 is real, if not all. 
  
  Sound: The sound is ok. Most of it is this boring song that goes on forever. One thing that was 
 a bit disappointing was that there was no surgical sound effects. This could have added the the 
 Sim part, and really would have drawn you in.
  
  Graphics: The graphics are pretty good, but pretty "cartoony-looking." It is still pretty good, 
 but what can we expect from the DS, we know its graphics are not perfect.
  
  Gameplay: This is where almost all the greatness of the game is. The gameplay is just so unique 
 and fresh, that it seems like you really are conducting an operation. In fact, the gameplay is 
 so great, it will make you panic when operating. 
  
  All in all, Trauma Center is my favorite DS game to date, and I highly recommend it!
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Nintendokid891
Rating: 9.2
Date: Feb 8, 2006 3:37 pm PT
Review:  What an Amazing Game! Trauma center is a wonderful game. Very hard, but still amazing. You will 
 want to through this game against the wall some times. Anyway heres my review:
  
  GAMEPLAY- The gameplay is awsome. Like i said a very hard game. The story line is really good also. 
 This game starts out as Non-Fiction but then it turns sort of sci-fi.
  
  9 out of 10
  
  GRAPHICS- The graphics are pretty good. No PSP though, but still good. You can see what your operating 
 on and the graphics for this sort of game are very good.
  
  8 out of 10
  
  SOUND- The music is pretty good. It has a good tune for the story that makes you feel like a real 
 doctor.
  
  8 out of 10
  
  LEARNING CURVE- This game is easy to learn (15 to 30 min) But even though, each level will take 
 you about a couple of trys.
  
  15 To 30 Minutes 
::::::

::::::
UserName: RacinJason
Rating: 8
Date: Jan 28, 2006 11:46 am PT
Review:  Trauma Center is a puzzle game that places you in the shoes of Dr. Derek Stiles. It's up to you 
 to perform surgurys and I guess to put a end to a disease called GUILT.
  
  This game is pretty cool, it make execellent use of the touch screen. The game is some what forgiving 
 for poor stylus skill. You will be performing surgurys and using medical instruments to make in 
 incesions, draining fluids, injecting fluids, removing tumors, and such. And while you are performing 
 surgury you are under a time limit and you have to watch your patient's vitals. The difficulty 
 goes up pretty fast in the game, the first few surgurys arn't any real problem. You might fail 
 a few until you get past the learning curve of the game but then it gets hard. As you make your 
 way though the game you aquire the ability called the "healing touch". As soon as you get this 
 the surgurys get harder. You only get to use this ability once per surgury so you have to figure 
 out when to use it to save your patient. One problem with the game is that it can get very frustrating 
 when you keep on failing a surgury because your not using your healing touch at the correct time 
 or it just gets to difficult. It will only take most people one hour to get to this point in the 
 game and the game overall is short. 
  
  The graphics good, but nothing amazing. There isn't alot of detail put into the body organs or 
 the infections. The still pictures of the characters are very well done as well as the backgrounds 
 in which you see them in.
  
  Sound is done well, there some up tempo music to set the tone and various other sound effects for 
 some of the things you will be doing in the game.
  
  Trauma Center is a fun game, but it can get very frustrating. The best part about it is that it 
 uses the touch screen for everything. So if you really like using the touch screen you will enjoy 
 that aspect of the game. That's the main reason I bought the game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Stan_Lee
Rating: 8.3
Date: Jan 27, 2006 6:50 am PT
Review:  Trauma Center: Under The Knife, at first glance, will likely not interest most gamers (medical 
 simulation ... whatever ...) but to those who do decide to pick it up and play will find a rather 
 nice gem that, with similar off-beat titles, will likely disappear.
  
  The game places you in the role of Dr. Derek Stiles where you will ... get this ... perform major 
 surgeries and progress through the storyline which occurs during the near future of 2018 with a 
 new strange disease called GUILT. There are other characters throughout the game of course but 
 the most notable character will be your assistant during your operations. The assistant turns out 
 to be an invaluable tool during play and helps guide you during your surgeries. For those who don't 
 care much about the story (Trauma Center's story is somewhat long) will be quite pleased that they 
 can skip the dialogue rather efficiently.
  
  As you progress you will open each operation as its own Challenge Mode stage which can offer replay 
 value. The top screen will have the storyline and operating room dialogue while the bottom screen 
 will have the patient to be operated on. The game requires you to keep your patient's vital signs 
 from reaching 0 and to successfully perform the operation within a time limit or otherwise you 
 fail the operation and must retry to advance. Saving the game is no problem here as you're able 
 to after each break.
  
  You control all of the action via the touch screen with a wide variety of surgical tools from a 
 laser to bandages where you will make incisions, suture wounds, extract tumors, inject medicine, 
 and other things you might expect in the operating room. Of course, this is entirely fiction and 
 an interesting option available to you later is The Healing Touch which will allow Dr. Stiles to 
 slow time when he needs it most. This game makes excellent use of the touch screen and best played 
 with the stylus as some precision is required here. In fact, good coordination and quick thinking 
 will definitely be required here to complete the game and, sometimes, a bit of luck.
  
  The graphics for the storyline are definitely within the anime/manga vein but are nothing more 
 than still images with dialogue text. The graphics for the actual operations are decent but might 
 not be for the squeamish as there obviously will be organs, wounds, and blood among other things. 
 The soundtrack offers very little offering single tracks for most of the storyline and operation 
 tracks from house/techno to 'serious' drama themes respectively.
  
  The game can be quite challenging and is a nice unique gem that makes perfect sense and a complement 
 to the DS' touch screen. It will appeal to puzzle gamers and it is highly recommended for those 
 that want something new and to test their stylus skills. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Wu-Tang-Clan93
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jan 21, 2006 10:26 am PT
Review:  Have you ever wanted to be a doctor but not have to go to medical school? Well your in luck, Trauma 
 Center is the game for you, you can be a watered down version of a surgeon for a while minus the 
 fat paycheck. This game is extremely innovative, for example removing glass from a heart virtually 
 speaking. The major problem with this game is how intense it can get, you have a time limit, and 
 your patient has a pulse, so you have to be careful but speedy at the same time. This game offers 
 all sorts of different operations that you can work on, so technically you don't really do the 
 same operation twice. I reccomend that after you pick up Castlevania and Pheonix Wright, you should 
 pick up this game, there are so many great games coming out for DS you will be cuddled up with 
 it throughought the cold winter. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: invdrcats
Rating: 9.1
Date: Jan 19, 2006 7:25 pm PT
Review:  As i open this review the first thing to say is that this is a AWSOME GAME!!!!
  as you start the game you find out about guilt and more and as you learn the people pasts. i was 
 pulled to this great story so you can get it for the great story or the best work of the pen in 
 a ds game its off a little but it wont kill you i find this game so compelling to find out whats 
 next you can end up spending three weeks beating one level you`ll get mad and then you`ll turn 
 it off then back on 
::::::

::::::
UserName: randomusername8
Rating: 8.3
Date: Jan 16, 2006 4:33 pm PT
Review:  Who would have ever guessed that they would make a game based on looking inside people but never 
 would have guessed it to be so good! Sure it maybe alittle disgusting at first but once you start 
 removeing the tumors you can't stop. Preforming surgical miracles with your finger (Or stylus) 
 Lasers, Forceps, and more to help make them. The grafics are pretty good not the greatest i've seen 
 on the DS but solid nonetheless. The sound aint bad eather thugh you hear it all the time though 
 nice to keep the tension when drastic things happen. The gameplay is well.... The most origenal 
 piece of work i've seen removeing glass and tumors. Injecting Serums and lasering GUILT that stands 
 for.... Well its confuseing. The story is ok about an 7 in my book though short as you are a doctor 
 at Hope Hospital saving the lives of people weather its tumors or glass removal nothing is incurable 
 with Dr. Derek Styles. Though a twist happens and it seems that its not all about saving lives but 
 a manmade incurble plauge called GUILT spears but who made it? And can you save everyone from this 
 disease? Thats up to you aand your DS touch screen. I mean everything about the gameplay is almost 
 flawless but when you progress though the game saw the anurism part seems almost impossible. THough 
 you have... THE HEALING TOUCH! Like the Matrix everythign and everyone around you slows down as 
 it will give you time to save the patient. Though still is hard but if a game is too easy then 
 it wouldt be fun would it. Well anyway to sum it up this is a great title that any DS owner should 
 waste your 30 or 40 bucks on. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: NyJeo723
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 13, 2007 11:36 pm PT
Review:  This game is so much fun even If you lose, you'll just keep trying it and beat it again. 
  
  This game is difficult so i wouldn't recommend it for young kids. This game is more suitable 
 for like 13+. 
  
  The story mode is fantastic even though they do start rabbling at times but in the end it still 
 keeps your attention. The story mode is about a doctor (dr. stiles) that is still a young surgeon 
 with difficulty of paying attention but after practicing alot he started to get amazingly better 
 that he found out he had the healing touch which only a few surgeon have. Then a big virus breaksout 
 called guilt and their lives are in your hand. 
  
  Overall this game is fun and if u fail a mission you'll just go back and do it again since its 
 so addictive. Great Game 
::::::

::::::
UserName: osita_chub
Rating: 8.7
Date: Jan 14, 2006 9:27 am PT
Review:  Trauma Center: Under the Knife is one of the games that made me finally decide to get a Nintendo 
 DS. The premise is so unique and I can finally live out my dream to be a doctor.
  
  At first, you start out as a rookie surgeon: you barely even know how to treat a simple wound. 
 Thankfully, you get instructions from the staff and slowly get the hang of using the different 
 tools you'll be using throughout the game. You start out with a couple of simple operations, healing 
 cuts here and there, then the difficulty slowly raises with every scenario. 
  
  You think it's just regular operations surgeons perform everyday? It's that and more, my friend. 
 Apparently you have a unique power called the Healing Touch. It helps you perform surgeries that 
 would be otherwise impossible to do. As you get more skilled, you catch the attention of Caduceus, 
 an elite medical organization that strive to find cures for otherwise incurable diseases. Working 
 for Caduceus, you find yourself fighting against Delphi, a terrorist group developing a unique 
 biochemical weapon called GUILT.
  
  Learning how to play the game is about of average difficulty, since we are talking about operating 
 on a patient, you need to be precise, accurate, quick, deft, and delicate at the same time. You'll 
 scream as you draw out a hundred circles until you finally get to use the magnifier correctly. 
 But seriously, one key thing to remember for this game is: practice makes perfect. It may just 
 be me, but it wasn't uncommon for me to do a complicated operation at least 10 times till I can 
 finally clear it. And complicated they become.
  
  Graphics are okay. Music? Repetitive. Sound? I found myself turning down the volume because of 
 the sometimes irritating comments of nurse Angie and the other staff. 
  
  Overall this game is a very good buy. It's definitely a game you'll want to add to your DS game 
 collection. You don't think the game is for you? I suggest you try it first before you deny yourself 
 the addictive rush of excising a tumor and finally stitching up your patient after a successful 
 operation. Once you try it, you'll get hooked. A true story: I found my younger sister who is totally 
 not into playing video games screaming at Angie to shut up as she was trying to prevent blood vessels 
 from exploding. -nods-
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: UndulationInc
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jan 14, 2006 4:44 pm PT
Review:  I have been very hesitant too write a review for this title, cause I tried to love it. I really 
 did. The first "real" medical game since the board game Operation! I was impressed, but than just 
 completely gave up on it... maybe Im no physician, but a puzzle game is a puzzle game, no matter 
 how the scalpel cuts. read on.
  
  GAMEPLAY ~
  +Positives+
  It's everything you could want from a medical title. The touch screen is your operating table and 
 on each side of the screen are the options used to save the persons life. From scalpel to stitching, 
 it's all there. There is a challenge mode used to "test" your skills and to maybe improve upon 
 your techniques. Remember, this is a puzzle game, you are timed and if you make a mistake it could 
 mean your patience life! Literally! Once you catch onto the rhythm of the full operation underway 
 it's fun to see how far your skills will take you!
  -Negative-
  As stated, this is a puzzle game. No matter how you slice it! 
  The controls (I. E. the stylus) 
 is very shaky and wobbly, it could be me, but others have experienced this problem as well. I don't 
 think I got one "great" in all of the operations Ive overseen, and I haven't personally gone over 
 a "C" class in the challenge area to boot. The top screen is USELESS again. The DS really should 
 have been just a touch screen for this title, cause to continuously atop a procedure and look above 
 to see what the nurse is instructing you to do is a pain. And some of the operations seem unrealistic 
 in alot of the cases (a heart speared with roughly 10 blades of glass!?!?! COME ON! THEIR DEAD 
 AT THAT POINT!) Operation 6 is incredibly hard for starters! Don't know why, but everyone who plays 
 my game gets that far than gives up. 
  There should have been a difficulty setting!.
  
  STORY ~
  You are Dr. Stiles (get it! Stiles! like the stylus! hardy har har!) a new doctor fresh 
 out of college an are looking to get your hands bloody with the thrill of saving lives! There are 
 2 prominent nurses in this title, one is nice older nurse who eventually leaves, and the other 
 is a fresh start nurse who gives you hell! So be prepared to get yelled at! There are other sub 
 characters, but nothing really worth mentioning.
  
  GRAPHICS ~
  +Positives+
  The graphics are top-notch! Really! Everything from the wounds to the tools to the nurses above. 
 everything is nice looking and the organs look like their real life counterparts. Cutting through 
 the tissue is as well enjoyable and the anime style storyline really brings out the charm of this 
 title.
  -Negatives-
  There isn't anything really negative about this title, except maybe the lack of any blood apparent 
 as you cut through. But again, top screen is useless. It should just be omitted during operations. 
 I don't care to se the nurses reaction as I cut through my patients.
  
  SOUND ~
  this was again, very nicely done. The music sounds like something directly out of a teen focused 
 anime. Like the music of lobby waiting and operation music isn't overpowering and lets you operate 
 in peace. Too bad the nurses don't stop with their constant "DOCTOR" interruption (mostly the blonde) . 
 It isnt that serious ladies.
  The sound FX are awesome! I just loved cutting to hear that sound, and that sound when you messed 
 up! It was the best part of this title! Try stabbing them insanely! It's hilarious!
  
  REPLAYABILITY ~
  Eh, once a surgery is over you can go back and try to get a good ranking, but 
 that is the real extent of it. Nothing ventured nothing gained I guess. Once its done, you won't 
 be "venturing" through this title a second time!
  
  OVERALL ~
  This title is what the touch screen was created for but there really should have been a tutorial 
 section as well as a difficulty setting for beginners...
  
  We've done all we could for him... call it... an 8.5... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MexicanGeek2991
Rating: 8.1
Date: Jan 9, 2006 6:04 pm PT
Review:  This is one of those games that's sort of split in two. I absolutley loved some parts but others 
 made me grow weary. Let's start at the beginnning. 
  
  The story starts out looking like a soap opera (which it basically is) and you are introduced to 
 the cast of whimsical characters. You of course, are the young gun who's looking to get some attention 
 in your field. So you have to perform surgery and prove your skills to the world. The first surgeries 
 are fairly easy. Then about half-way through they start to become about a normal difficulty level. 
 But after that, I dare you to try not to through your DS against a brick wall. Now, I'm not saying 
 they're all IMPOSSIBLE, but I am saying that about 3 or 4 of the missions in the game made me almost 
 burst a blood vessel in my forehead. Other than those missions, the difficulty is pretty good.
 
  
  The thing that of course ties all of these surguries together is the story. I'd give that about 
 a 7 out of 10, but I know some people that just completely skip through it. I feel that that is 
 a bit harsh. You just have to give it a chance. At first everything is normal in the world of this 
 touch based game, but soon traces of a disease called GUILT are found and then the stroy becomes 
 a big fat drama/mystery. Which is alright.
  
  One of the most important things to me is the length of a game and this somewhat delivers. I mean, 
 if some of the missions weren't so d*mn hard I might have beaten this game in 7 hours or so. Well, 
 luckily it took about 2 hours longer than that just because of the difficulty. The good thing is 
 that you can go back and play through each scenario to get a higher ranking.
  
  The graphics on this game are very good for the DS, with nicely drawn characters and the 3D esque 
 nature of the surguries. Except in one scenario, I had a frame rate problem because there was so 
 much happening onscreen. But it only happened once. The sound is fine but they could've done better. 
 It just seems that they should've put a few more songs in the background instead of the same 2 
 or 3 over and over again. 
  
  Overall, I really enjoyed this game and would recommend it to anyone who's looking for a hip new 
 DS game. It's sort of a puzzle/simulation. This is definetely one of the best uses of the DS's 
 touch screen to date. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cesar999
Rating: 8.2
Date: Jan 9, 2006 3:03 pm PT
Review:  this game is the most origanal game on the DS that I Have seen so far. And it has a compelling story 
 and a innovative gameplay mechanic that makes this game great. your a rookie doctor named dr. stiles 
 that is a rookie at hope hospital. He finds out of a special ability that he has that is called 
 the healing touch and he uses it troughout the game. now the fact that you can control things that 
 a surgeon would use makes you feel a pride of accomplishment. the game makes you feel for your patients 
 from suicidal high schoolers to little kids that have to get heart surgery. The down side to this 
 game is the increasingly hard difficulty as the surgery gets harder and harder which makes it hard 
 for casual gamers. and the dialouge is annoying at times ,especialy when you have to restart the 
 game becuase you lost a challenge. Get this if you can past the hardness. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: worshyr
Rating: 6.2
Date: Jan 8, 2006 8:08 pm PT
Review:  Ah Trauma Center, An annoying game to say the least and it obviously takes place in a hospital. 
 A place that I have always hated. The controls of this game are garbage! They are to freaking sensetive, 
 Forbid that you miss the dotted line by a microinch and cut the patient. They are in surgery they 
 are SUPPOSED TO BE CUT!. And everytime you cut that patient their heart rate goes up and their 
 vitals go down. And all the while your stupid blonde nurse is chewing you out for using the wrong 
 surgical tool.
  
  I got so mad at this game that I repeatedly stabbed my patients to death and I enjoyed every minute 
 of it.
  
  Oh yea I forgot to mention the story, You are Doogie Houser MD.. wait no, You are just some rookie 
 doctor and everyone is yelling at you cause you suck at surgery or something like that. For all 
 of its flaws the game has good graphics and decent gameplay but in the end I did not get into the 
 game very much, I assume it would turn into Felix Wright. Not alot of surgery but a whole lot of 
 talking.
  
  Rent first. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sjesseph
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 5, 2006 6:22 pm PT
Review:  This game is great! I will have to say it is one that I have spent a lot of time playing and although 
 parts are hard you can't wait to get to through it so you can see what is next! The graphics are 
 great and it has a lot of excitment! I will have to say the only down side to me was there could 
 be a little less talking but it doesn't at all take away from the game play! Worth the money and 
 Time! I know if you try this game you will just love it ! It really is the best! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hmasd
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 2, 2006 4:11 pm PT
Review:  When i heard about the game i said to myself this is going to be stupid. A game that your a doctor 
 healing people just didnt hit me good i thought it was going to be horrible, Then At christmas 
 my mom bought it for me and i was like well since she bought it im going to olay it theres no use 
 in her wasting money. When i played it my perspective changed so fast. For 2 days straight i couldnt 
 put it down. I was playing and playing. The game has a story. The story is actually alright, YOur 
 a doctor and in the beggining you treat wounds like taking glass out of patients arms. you cure 
 anuerisms you help people with different problems. Then the proble gets worst when you find a virus 
 called GUILT. I am not going to say what GUILT stands for cause its a long word. I am not spoiling 
 anything more i you want to know more play the game.
  
  The Graphics are good but the game is hard . WHen you start healing tough viruses you will get 
 stuck for an hour or so. This game is good and i higly recommend it. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: yodariquo
Rating: 7.9
Date: Dec 31, 2005 2:09 pm PT
Review:  Trauma Center: Under the Knife
  Fun on top, but what's under is a bit more dull
  
  Graphics (12.5%) - 8
  Controls (15%) - 9
  Variety (25%) - 9
  Replay (25%) - 6
  Sound (7.5%) 
 - 8.5
  Depth (15%) - 7.5
  
  OVERALL - 7.86
  
  Graphics - 8
  Trauma Center looks the part when it comes to a surgery games. Everything is distinguishable and 
 thankfully not disgustingly gory. Embedded glass looks particularly nice, as does the blood from 
 a wound when it overflows and needs to be drained.
  
  Controls - 9
  The controls take a surprisingly large amount of practice to adjust to. Precision is required, 
 and it will feel touchy at first -- even unresponsive. Those feelings go away as you improve to 
 match the increasingly difficult procedures. The limited use within a time period of different 
 tools is a bit annoying and strange that it's there, but it does add to the depth -- although also 
 to the frustration.
  
  Variety - 9
  Variety is a tough nut to crack. There are a solid number of procedures and plenty of tools to 
 perfect. This is also where I reward the sheer uniqueness of the gameplay as there is nothing like 
 Trauma Center currently available. However, the game is too short -- at my finish time within the 
 range of 7-8 hours, some real surgeries last longer.
  
  Replay - 6
  Once you finish a procedure, there is no real desire to go back and do it again. Also, by the end 
 of the game, the first half of the game is likely to seem rather simplistic. However, the main 
 problem plaguing the game is what you end up curing for at least half the game -- different strains 
 of a disease called GUILT. The problem is that the strains are basically insects in the body, and 
 you have to do different things to eradicate them. It's different, it's interesting -- BUT IT'S 
 NOT SURGERY. Earlier in the game, you remove tumours and surture wounds from glass and that is 
 rewarding; but GUILT doesn't really feel like surgery at all, and I find that very disappointing. 
 The main incentive to go back would be to get high scores, but simply successfully completely the 
 surgery was all that really mattered during the play-through. There's also no running tab of score 
 during the campaign to go through and try to beat, which would have been nice.
  
  Sound - 8.5
  The sound is actually pretty important during the surgery -- you hear when the vitals 
 siginificantly lower, hear when the nurse calls to say something important, and you hear what makes 
 contact with what. The music is solid, and one piece played during a scene with Secretary Anderson 
 is among the best pieces of music I've heard in a game -- it's a shame there's no sound test. But 
 the actual music is a bit limited in variety.
  
  Depth - 7.5
  You'll uncover different techniques to going about a surgery, as well as having to learn how to 
 solve different diseases while maintaining vitals. It gets very intense.
  
  Overall - 7.86
  I got Trauma Center: Under the Knife because I wanted a new experience. I got 
 that. However, it was cut short by length, and further by abstraction of procedures. It is the 
 most intense experience I've had in a game since F-Zero GX, but it disappoints overall, despite 
 to the solidity of the title. This is probably the most fitting of a rent-it-first title there 
 is.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: DisneyFREAK91
Rating: 7.9
Date: Dec 28, 2005 5:24 pm PT
Review:  Those Japanese people know how to dish out some pretty good  
 This is a very technilogically advanced game and new to people. So, of course, it's bound to impress 
 people regardless of it's repetativeness. Now, I'm not being racial, BUT the anime games do tend 
 to drift away from gameplay and more on storyline. You WILL find yourself spending more time reading 
 the subtitles than actually playing the game. Also, when you do play the hyper-adictive surgeries, 
 they can get a bit repetative after a while. But not to worry, they do tend to mix it up with all 
 new procedures and obstacles. 
  
  Overall, I dub it worth the money, but don't expect to be playing it for a while. You CAN, however, 
 go back and perform any surgery you did in the game through challenge mode. Thank God for that. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sing4meJSU
Rating: 9.2
Date: Dec 28, 2005 3:14 pm PT
Review:  This game is awesome because it is unlike the majority of video games out there. I've been playing 
 for a few days and have gotten pretty far with no real problems as far as game-play or technical 
 stuff is concerned. You have to really be skilled and fast to rank higher than a C on most of the 
 operations, but that doesn't matter, because you still advance in the game no matter what score 
 you have. 
  I love this game and it's super addictive, the only problem is that it stresses me out! Taking 
 a breather between operations is good, and don't give up!
  The game gets really hard around chapter 6, but it's totally worth it when you finally successfully 
 perform a difficult operation. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: RoyalAssassin78
Rating: 8.4
Date: Dec 28, 2005 4:50 pm PT
Review:  Trauma Center: Under the Knife is a surgical simulation game for the DS. When looking at this games, 
 you really see that this game fits the DS perfectly. In the game, you only use the stylus to perform 
 operations that feel to have light puzzle mechanics to them. The game ranges from an assortment 
 of situations, and gets harder as you go through the game. The thing is, this game gets Really 
 Hard Really Fast. The difficulty gets high so fast that difference between fun and mass frustration 
 clash. This is the kind of game, where it's best to play just a few operations, and then take a 
 break, because it will otherwise be a frustrating experience. If you are looking for something 
 very unique and innovative for your DS, and you think you can accept the challenge, then I suggest 
 you check out this game. If you are a gamer that is not patient and has never been able to beat 
 a game like Super Mario Bros. all the way through:) , should probably stay clear. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: LooneyLupeGirL
Rating: 9.7
Date: Dec 28, 2005 1:07 am PT
Review:  I found this game to be great. Although alot of people told me it was a very hard game i found 
 it to be simple once you get the hang of it. This game is definitely not for people with bad eye-hand 
 coordination though. If you don't know already this game goes like this you are a doctor and have 
 to preform operations on people it can range from basic things like taking glass shards out of 
 someone arms to stuff like removing tumors. There is a time limit for each operation which makes 
 it a challenge. If you practice enough you get good at it though. Trust me this game is fun. And 
 the best part is you get to operate without the smell of a real hospital. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: schpenke
Rating: 5.2
Date: Dec 27, 2005 3:47 pm PT
Review:  Poorly implemented instrument control and in-surgery distractions make this game a lesson in frustration. 
 The direction the developers tried to go with the stylus control was excellent. The implementation 
 was not so excellent. In a timed game the very last thing that you want to have happen is a tool 
 to work incorrectly or intermittently. Quite a few times in the game I found the surgical tools 
 unresponsive, highly inaccurate, or simply broken like in the case of the magnifying glass. Also, 
 during surgery I found it extremely irritating to be constantly interrupted in the middle of procedures 
 by a nurse's rambling conversations. 
  
  This game is visually presented in beautifully done anime style but unfortunately voice acting 
 is almost non-existent except for the redundant "Doctor!" outbursts shouted by the obviously Tourrete 
 Syndrome afflicted nurses. Most disappointing is the game play which is broken due to poor tool 
 implementation and execution.
  
  Rent the game to experience what will probably be the groundwork for another, better game in the 
 future. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sammo1b777
Rating: 9.3
Date: Dec 26, 2005 10:59 am PT
Review:  A very good game for the DS. This game has many different procedures you have to do and remember 
 how to do them to get the operations accomplished. All the operations have a time limit and each 
 individual patients vitals drop depending upon how well or bad you do the operation. I liked the 
 graphics a lot. The gameplay was a little hard to get used to but just keep on practicing and you'll 
 soon get the hang of the touch screen. All in all its a game everyone who owns a Nintendo DS should 
 own because its one of the best. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Gunmetalman
Rating: 9.1
Date: Dec 25, 2005 8:20 am PT
Review:  Trauma Center is one of the most innovative and fun games for the DS. You play as Derick Stiles, 
 a surgeon who cures patients that come in at hope hospital. 
  
  Gameplay: Unfortunately the only thing you can do in Trauma Center is play through the story and 
 perform surgeries. Fortunately you can replay the previous surgeries you complete and attempt to 
 get a higher ranking. Also there is a huge variety of surgeries, so you probably won't do the same 
 surgery twice. Each surgery takes about a min of 3 to a max of 10 min to complete. However the 
 story is so fun, its unlikely you'll be replaying the previous surgeries unless you get stuck on 
 the main story. At times some surgeries will seem tough, but once you get use to it, you'll eventually 
 get it.
  
  Graphics: The detail of the organs and blood is very detailed, and it also seems as if you're really 
 inside of a human body. The interaction with the equipment is also responsive.
  
  Sound: Aside from your assistant talking to you with programmed phrases, there isn't much to the 
 sounds except the drain and the patient's vitals.
  
  Value: If you're good enough to complete each mission, then the story should hopefully keep you 
 hooked.
  
  Overall Trauma Center is a very good game that anyone can pick up quickly and enjoy if they don't 
 mind the amount of blood they'll see (Trust me you'll be seeing a lot of blood in this game) . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TargetDog
Rating: 8.8
Date: Dec 19, 2005 4:23 pm PT
Review:  Trauma Center: Under the Knife is really an excellent game which is controlled using the stylus 
 only. The whole game is based on a story about GUILT, a form of medical terrorism and a doctor 
 and his quest to eradicate GUILT. The story isn't that amazing, but it keeps you going. On to the 
 bulk of the review:
  
  Gameplay: 9
  The gameplay is very very good. Y ou're constantly switching back and forth between tools to fix 
 up your patient, and it becomes very very hectic once you get past the few beginning levels. There 
 are many things you do in the game; it always switches objectives between missions, all of which 
 are unique keeping gameplay fresh. It's highly addictive, and even though in the endgame levels, 
 you're bound to lose some missions more than a few times, you'll just wanna keep on replaying it 
 because its so fun. The controls are near perfect, except for the zoom function, which you have 
 to draw a circle to zoom in with. Problem is, you have to draw a PERFECT circle. However, I found 
 a way around this by just drawing "C" (it worked) , but I don't think other people will.
  
  Graphics:8
  Well, theres not much in terms of graphics. In between missions, you have the story 
 parts, which have some text and still shots of a backround and unanimated anime-ish characters, 
 which actually look very good. During the mission, the organs are usually shown with some simplistic 
 but nice 3D, and all the different effects are all in 2d, and look pretty nice.
  
  Sound:8
  Well, the sound effects are all excellent, and spot on, i guess. There are very few 
 music tracks, but the ones that ARE there are very very good.
  
  Value:7
  This was my major problem with the game. THe game is only 6 hrs long (including how many times you 
 will restart hard missions) and you can play a challenge mode to try to get better ranks on the 
 missions (ranging from A, B, C) but you're bound to get bored before you manage to get A on everything.
 
  
  Overall, this is a really really good game. The only problems really are the value, and the difficulty 
 which some people will dislike, but I loved (always like a good challenge.) Yes, there are better 
 DS games out there, but if you want a game that really uses the stylus well than IMO this is the 
 best choice.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: darkside92
Rating: 8.4
Date: Dec 15, 2005 10:23 am PT
Review:  From the first time that you get into an extremely tense and difficult operation against GUILT, 
 you know that this game is great. The touch screen conrols feel almost like an extension of your 
 hand. Although the game gets tough in some areas you are rewarded with a 10 minute exerpt of the 
 story which is great, it is like if tramau center' s story is a combination of E. R, House M. D., 
 and General Hospital. If that was not enough for you than there is a challenge mode where you can 
 play through all the operations in an attempt to get a good score on all of the operations, this 
 is harder than it seems because when you first play through it almost all of your scores on the 
 operations will be barely C's. The graphics on the lower screen operations are not the best but 
 considering the platform that this game is on they are well above average and the character animations 
 are also very good. Sound gets a lower score in this game, not because the sound in it is all that 
 bad, just because there could have been more variety in the music and voiceovers in the game. Overall 
 I have to recommend this game to almost anyone who owns a DS. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Console_Buster
Rating: 9.4
Date: Dec 13, 2005 10:18 pm PT
Review:  Trauma center under the knife is the best stratergy game ever but one problem that it ma kes up 
 desieses. It's called GUILT (which you know what it is stands for) It takes ya to the world of 
 biology but it hasn't got details about the innerbody e. g, heart , ribs , instines etc. so the 
 best biology game . your a doctor and you do operation and then you cure a type of guilt . an orgsnisation 
 gives you an oppertunitty to join them and you accept . then the only opperations you do is guilt 
 . there is many types so don't think that it'll be one type . i advice ya to buy or play it . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bennyrobo
Rating: 9.2
Date: Dec 12, 2005 2:27 am PT
Review:  I'm lovin' it. Lots of fun chopping people up. Its like a revolutioary version of the old operation 
 board game, and who can resist. 
  This game probably requires a certain like of puzzle and innovative games (and also a certain skill 
 at them, at later stages this game gets quite hard)
  
  This game is what Nintendo is renouned for, a quirky, slightly weird, something that you know would 
 be really popular in Japan, all-round fascinating, fun game which makes you curious and craving 
 more
  
  I still play this game after owning it for ages. But if your not the puzzle type i would suggest 
 you rent because it might still cater to your inner gamer 
  (you what, i know)
  
  I loved and i would say 89% of all people would as well, but then you get your average cave-man, 
 who won't come out of his cave and who wont play a game except your average FPS like Half-life 
 (and they play it over and over again) If you like new things and you have evolved to be a Homo 
 Sapien then you will like this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: the_13est_
Rating: 8.3
Date: Dec 1, 2005 3:10 am PT
Review:  This is one of the few DS games which creates an atmosphere.
  How brilliant is the plot of this game, a hospital themed game ? Wow, i thought. How bizzare, but 
 wow.
  My wows didn't end there. I bought the game in this small little shop in my nearby town, it wasn't 
 getting any hype, but the idea of the game seemed cool.
  I was predicting a basic game where you have to organise a hospital, a tad likeTheme Hospital" 
 on the PC.
  But i was certainly wrong. This game takes you through many operations, including operations on 
 the spleen, aborting tumours and even taking apart a bomb.
  The fun dosn't end there, all the characters in the game are brilliant, the anime is colourful 
 and the sound dosn't annoy.
  The only bad thing about this game is the difficulty. When you get through around 8 operations 
 they begin to get very hard.
  With so many different appliances to use like miracle working anti-biotic gel & bandages, it gets 
 confusing when your at a tight point,
  You loose the game obviously when the heart rate reaches 0, and usually, it does.
  Only buy this 
 game if you have utter patience, like a doctor.
  
  Good game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SyBerWoLff
Rating: 9.8
Date: Nov 19, 2005 11:04 am PT
Review:  THe gameplay is amazing and the overall game is just about perfect. Theres just some tweaks that 
 could be fixed a bit
  
  The game does take a while to learn and you do need fast and steady hands. Speed and accuracy are 
 a MUST! so hand-eye coordination is the key point of this game
  
  The game is extremely hard but its hard to the point where it makes you want to continue. Usually 
 if i get stuck on a gme i put it down and never touch it again but in this game it makes u want 
 to continue trying until you succeed. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gotennn888gt
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 17, 2005 3:36 pm PT
Review:  I love this game, its so difficult, yet its fun. I'm glad I bought this game, it really does test 
 how good your hands are, like you wanna try to always get a Rank A, but its so hard, I love it!!! 
 I am still trying to get my Ranks up to an A. If you love to operate on things, or if you like 
 games that really use the stylus a lot, then this game is for you. BUT remember this game has nothing 
 to do with real life, so if you want to become a doctor and are serious, then dont buy this, but 
 if you want it just to have fun, then go ahead. I give this game a perfect 10. 5 stars out of 5. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Storm_Ov_Ages
Rating: 7.7
Date: Nov 16, 2005 2:32 pm PT
Review:  Who would have thought that Nintendo would live up to it's promise of new game concepts that would 
 utilize the touch screen? 
  
  TCUTK is definitley a departure from your normal game genres, but in a good way. The quirky surgery 
 gameplay utilizes the touch screen in a way that I would have never thought possible; a... Scalpel 
 (as well as drains, lasers, forceps, etc.) . The stylus works very well for the gamer provided that 
 he/she is quick and precise with it. The gameplay starts with basic surgery procedures (such as 
 removal/extraction operations, tumour removals.) , and progresses to the utterly insane (killing 
 aliens within a patients body, yes you heard me.) . 
  
  The only real downside to the game would be the fact that later operations are next to impossible 
 to complete without superhuman speed (expect to have many, many, MANY patients die on you before 
 all is said and done.) . In fact, some of the last few are so difficult that it actually hurts the 
 gameplay more than anything else, however, the entertainment and sheer "what the hell?" aspects 
 of the game make this a purchase worthy of your 25-odd dollars. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: LauraPalmer
Rating: 5.8
Date: Nov 11, 2005 8:59 am PT
Review:  I had such high hopes for this game. It is such a great idea but it just fell short of my expectations. 
 The actual gameplay is fun and challenging but the overall game just wasn't great. There was way 
 too much dialogue in between surgeries for me and it became real old, real fast. Maybe if there 
 was more interaction between the game and the player during the dialogue it would be better - like 
 an rpg. The surgeries are fun but I just lost interest after having the game for about 2 weeks. 
 I think the game just wasn't developed enough. It relies only on the surgeries for excitement and 
 the filler is just bland. Like I said previously if it had more of a role playing aspect to it 
 it would be much better. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cpindell
Rating: 4.4
Date: Nov 10, 2005 1:20 pm PT
Review:  This is by far the buggiest handheld console game ever. Minor surgery turned into horrible nightmare. 
 The scenario where you have to remove throat pulups from a singer involves the first use of the 
 zoom tool. The problem with this is that you have to draw a circle around an unidentified area 
 (can only assume it is where you want to operate) . After drawing between 20-30 circles and watch 
 this guys health dip to critical on multiple occasions I was able to get the zoom to work once. 
 After performing necessary surgery I was horrified to find out that not only did I have to zoom 
 out (another 20-30 times) I had to do it again for several other pulups. What gives after trying 
 on 3 different unsucessful occasions I was left believe that either my game is messed up or I'm 
 the biggest moran ever. Considering I do not have any trouble with any other stylist controled 
 games I am left believing it is former. This game is extremely buggy and I can only hope I can 
 pawn it off on some other unsuspecting smuck. 
  
  Bottom line this game stinks!!!! This is by far the buggiest handheld console game ever. Minor surgery 
 turned into horrible nightmare. The scenario where you have to remove throat polyps from a singer 
 involves the first use of the zoom tool. The problem with this is that you have to draw a circle 
 around an unidentified area (can only assume it is where you want to operate) . After drawing between 
 20-30 circles and watch this guys health dip to critical on multiple occasions I was able to get 
 the zoom to work once. After performing necessary surgery I was horrified to find out that not 
 only did I have to zoom out (another 20-30 times) I had to do it again for several other polyps. 
 What gives after trying on 3 different unsuccessful occasions I was left believe that either my 
 game is messed up or I'm the biggest moron ever. Considering I do not have any trouble with any 
 other stylist controlled games I am left believing it is former. This game is extremely buggy and 
 I can only hope I can pawn it off on some other unsuspecting schmuck. 
  
  Bottom line this game stinks!!!!
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: crazy_ferret123
Rating: 8.6
Date: Nov 6, 2005 1:11 pm PT
Review:  let me get the bad part out first. thsi game is dam hard. u are timed and it gets worse over time. 
 ok after thats out of the way, this game has much petential. i have to admit that the story line 
 is bland and stale. it has something about like aliens taking over the world. i didnt pay attention. 
 the surgery is damn fun though. its very in depth and its funn to do the same operation over, which 
 adds to its already staggering replay value only. i highly recommend this game to the people who 
 are looking for a game on the ds just to play until mario kart and animal crossing comes out. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: KhAmSa
Rating: 7.9
Date: Nov 6, 2005 7:23 am PT
Review:  Well, the game isnt that bad, the graphics arent so realistic specially the blood which comes out 
 and then its also a bit heavily text which could be avoided by making the characters speak them 
 selves any way its worth playing and if you sit playing it for a while you wont put it down. Another 
 thing i forgot to mention is that the sound isnt soo good. ThanksWell, the game isnt that bad, 
 the graphics arent so realistic specially the blood which comes out and then its also a bit heavily 
 text which could be avoided by making the characters speak them selves any way its worth playing 
 and if you sit playing it for a while you wont put it down. Another thing i forgot to mention is 
 that the sound isnt soo good. Thanks 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sbgtf1
Rating: 8.1
Date: Oct 30, 2005 7:27 pm PT
Review:  Trauma Center: Under the Knife, for the Nintendo DS (dual screens) Nintendo... have ya ever noticed 
 that? Nintendo feels the need to put their name right after the console that starts with their 
 name. For example the abbreviation for XBOX is MXB (Microsoft XBox) and for Sony -- PS1, PS2, PS3, 
 PSP they're all just Playsation (1, 2, 3, Portable) but as for the GameCube, they so feel the urge 
 to call it the GCN (GameCube Nintendo) but while they also call it the Nintendo GameCube (NGCN 
 (Nintendo GameCube Nintendo) I mean what's up with that?! They feel the need to emphasize that 
 it was their bright idea for the system that sold less than tweny million units world-wide in oh, 
 I don't know... FIVE YEARS!!! That was enough time for the PlayStation 2 to sell over ninety million 
 units, even while the original PlayStation is still "bringin' home bacon" for Sony Computer Entertainment 
 America and Europe Incorporated (SCEAEI) , not including the fact that the PSP sold over six hundred 
 thousand units in its first week in America and over one million units world-wide shortly after. 
 Plus all the pre-orders for the PS3 and everything it will sell once it hits store shelves (considering 
 it's the most highly anticipated next gen console to hit the planet) and one more thing -- Halo 2 
 had over six million pre-orders not including the millions it has sold since then, and also not 
 including what the original Halo and the map pack has done. Which means that every one of them 
 had at least one XBOX in their household, and although it was few, there are some people who have 
 yet to purchase one of three Halo titles. **need I mention XBOX 360, Perfect Dark Zero, HALO 3, 
 and Gears of War** [Editor's Note] Nintendo did one thing right for the Nintendo GameCube Nintendo 
 in Resident Evil 4... but wait, I seem to recall that game being released for the PS2 recently 
 with a buttload of new features and content (weapons, costumes, gameplay modes) plus ALL the old 
 content from the Nintendo GameCube Nintendo version! Thanks for reading but now for the review 
 "Halo: Combat Evolved" is a great game... 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: neeker
Rating: 7
Date: Oct 24, 2005 7:18 am PT
Review:  There was a time when the closest I came to becoming a doctor was my handwriting. Thanks to Atlus, 
 now I can at least save lives with my stylus. Yes, the library of innovative, interactive DS games 
 doesn't seem to be drying up, and in Trauma Center: Under the Knife, we've another quirky Japanese 
 title that somehow makes playing games fun again. 
  
  Assuming the role of Derek Stiles, a rookie surgeon, your task in Trauma Center is to save the 
 world. Blessed with a unique gift only known as the "healing touch", which gives you extraordinary 
 speed and concentration when performing a surgery, you'll take on a group of terrorists who've 
 brought upon a mysterious, yet life-threatening virus called GUILT upon the world. 
  
  Of course, as a surgeon, you won't have to take on these people head on, Street Fighter-style. 
 Instead, each attack from the terrorists is sent to you in the form of a patient. The injured parts 
 are revealed as close-ups on the touch screen, while you use a host of items to salvage the situation 
 within a time limit. Obviously, the cases get more and more complicated as the game progresses, 
 and saving the lives of these patients becomes truly a race against time, as well as the strange 
 ailments that befall upon them. 
  
  In essence, Trauma Center requires you to perform surgeries after surgeries. While this may sound 
 a little repetitive, you probably won't even notice it in practice. The game is paced so quickly, 
 you'd barely have any time to think about what to do next, and before you know it, you're on the 
 job again. Sharp instincts, quick reflexes and a lot of patience are what will get you through 
 the game. But if you're into unveiling the mystery behind GUILT and its perpetuator, you wouldn't 
 be shortchanged too. The game did a good job of making a simple story interesting, and despite 
 some insanely difficult to perform surgeries (and many lost lives) , you'll get great satisfaction 
 out of every soul you save. 
  
  Saving lives is not exactly rocket science in Trauma Center. It basically involves selecting an 
 item from the icons on the sides of the touch screen, and applying them to the wounded areas. For 
 example, you can suture a wound by stroking your stylus in a zigzag fashion over a cut, or remove 
 a foreign object from the bodies by lifting it in the correct direction by holding it and slowly 
 dragging it away with the stylus. Your assistant will also give you instructions on the top screen 
 on what to do, so you ought to have some ideas on how to make things work like a real surgeon, 
 even though you may never emulate the handwriting. However, as the action gets thicker and faster, 
 you may simply find the advice being a bother rather than help. 
  
  And then they give you some cases when no one else is around to advise you. 
  
  Such is the 
 pressure of Trauma Center, I'd only recommend it to gamers who have a strong heart (no pun intended) . 
 If you're not into looking at wounds and lacerations, the game won't shock you by the quite unrealistic 
 graphics (for the bodies and blood and what have you - the nurses, I mean, people, are generally 
 well drawn ) . But it does have the potential of making you want to throw your DS towards the wall 
 when you fail to save yet another a life, and that's when the real problem comes in. The game is 
 very difficult to play, and as I mentioned, you'll need a lot of patience to engage it. But at 
 least it tries to help you concentrate on the task by toning down the audios, which may not be 
 a plus point for some, but definitely one for me. 
  
  And, if after all that I wrote, you still think you've what it takes to seek the truth behind GUILT, 
 you should immediately turn off that episode of ER, and make an appointment with Trauma Center: 
 Under the Knife. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nes4life13
Rating: 8.6
Date: Oct 21, 2005 11:08 am PT
Review:  Have you ever wanted to be a doctor but not have to go to medical school? Well your in luck, Trauma 
 Center is the game for you, you can be a watered down version of a surgeon for a while minus the 
 fat paycheck. This game is extremely innovative, for example removing glass from a heart virtually 
 speaking. The major problem with this game is how intense it can get, you have a time limit, and 
 your patient has a pulse, so you have to be careful but speedy at the same time. This game offers 
 all sorts of different operations that you can work on, so technically you don't really do the 
 same operation twice. I reccomend that after you pick up Castlevania and Pheonix Wright, you should 
 pick up this game, there are so many great games coming out for DS you will be cuddled up with 
 it throughought the cold winter. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DDABIEN
Rating: 8.6
Date: Oct 20, 2005 5:42 pm PT
Review:  IM A SURGEON AND I LIKE IT A LOT
  
  WHEN I PLAY FOR FIRST TIME, I SAY WHAT A FK??
  IT S LIKE REAL LIFE.... SOME...
  
  BUT I ENJOY IT
  
  IT S THE HISTORY OF A RESIDENT WHO 
 LEARNS WHO TO DO THAT HE MUST DO IN A SURGERY
  
  A MUST BUY FOR EVERYBODY WHO IS A DOCTOR!!!
  
  BUENO ME HA GUSTADO MUCHO Y ME PARECE UN GRAN 
 JUEGO
  SOY CIRUJANO Y REALMENTE ME HA DIVERTIDO MUCHO
  LO RECOMIENDO MUCHO
  
  FELICITACIONES A SUS CREADORES
  
  CONGRATULATIONS!
  
  
  
  VERY ORIGINAL!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: drswank
Rating: 8
Date: Oct 20, 2005 10:31 am PT
Review:  Did you grow up with a passion for playing doctor but that job at McDonalds hasnt been able to 
 raise the cash to get you into medical school? Atlus may just have your answer with Trauma Center: 
 Under the Knife. While essentially a puzzle game at its core, Trauma Center puts a new spin on 
 things by putting patients lives in your hands as you try to fix them up and beat the clock. The 
 result is a fun and frantic puzzler that every DS owner should check into. 
  
  Believe it or not, Trauma Center has a pretty involved storyline and plays out like an anime melodrama. 
 You play the part of Dr. Derek Stiles, a rookie surgeon who needs to learn responsibility as much 
 as he needs a good hair stylist. This is most evident during the early portions of the game where 
 Derek is constantly ridiculed for his somewhat lax attitude towards his job and patients. It isnt 
 until he gets paired up with a hot, yet scorning assistant and almost kills a patient when he starts 
 to have second doubts about his career choice. Just when Derek seems to hit rock bottom, he gets 
 thrown into a situation where he is the only doctor who can remedy the situation and thats when 
 he fully realizes his abilities. Hes told that he has an ability called the healing touch that 
 allows him to summon some sort of divine concentration that allows him to slow down time in his 
 mind. From that point forward, Derek vows to become a great surgeon and harness his gift for the 
 powers of good. This couldnt come at a better time since a terrorist group declares a war by means 
 of medical terrorism where a mysterious disease is let loose upon the city. If this all sounds 
 a little outlandish then give yourself a pat on the back. Trauma Center lays the story on thick 
 and will devote entire sections of a given chapter to cutscenes involving static depictions of 
 characters and a lot of text. The whole thing ends up playing out like ER mixed with an episode 
 of 24. 
  
  Outlandish story aside, Trauma Center offers some pretty fast paced gameplay that will have you 
 rushing to complete a procedure while rewarding your accuracy at the same time. Youll be briefed 
 before every operation on what your objectives are and of any complications that may arise and 
 are pretty much guaranteed to arise during every procedure. During the operation itself, the patient 
 takes up the lower portion of the screen while the top screen displays your score, time limit, 
 and your assistant along with any instructions shes giving you. All of your tools are displayed 
 on the left and right sides of the screen and consist of all of the standard surgery tools such 
 as the scalpel, drain, suture, antibacterial gel, and even a laser for some precision burning action. 
 
  
  Youll need all of the tools at your disposal since youll be performing a variety of procedures 
 like removing chunks of glass and sewing up lacerations, draining and removing tumors, or in later 
 levels, removing and burning moving tumors from the seemingly incurable bio agent that is released 
 on the city. The stylus is your main form of control and youll be making slicing motions with 
 the scalpel, sewing up open wounds by zigzagging across them, draining blood by placing the drain 
 on top of an offending puddle and moving the stylus in an upwards motion for the suction. Some 
 operations require you to use a magnifier tool where youll have to draw a circle around the area 
 you want to magnify. Unfortunately, the game doesnt always agree with what your idea of a circle 
 is compared to its own (which takes a horrible amount of precision) and the result is often an 
 angry buzz which will have you openly cursing the game in those extremely time sensitive situations. 
 
  
  Each procedure becomes increasingly more difficult than the last and a lot of them will require 
 multiple attempts. Youll find yourself attempting to perform surgery in the allocated time limit 
 while making sure the patients vitals dont get too low. If youre about to lose a patient, you 
 can always inject them with some antibiotic fluid to stabilize them which may take up precious 
 time but can also be a deciding factor in completing the operation. Youll find yourself having 
 to work faster and faster as you progress through the game with your only chance to breathe being 
 the brief moments of dialog from your assistant during pivotal moments of the operation where the 
 clock will stop. There are a few points where youll finish a portion of the procedure and expect 
 to get some sort of instruction from your assistant but end up being told to do something as the 
 clock is ticking without an idea on how to do it. Thankfully, these trial and error moments arent 
 frequent, but it tends to suck to be left high and dry when you were receiving instructions from 
 your assistant frequently up until that point. 
  
  As things get faster and more difficult it may seem that youre working against unbeatable odds 
 with nothing short of a stroke of luck to get your through a particular operation. No matter how 
 frustrated you may get, youll almost always find yourself going back and trying again, its just 
 that fun. For situations that put you under extreme pressure, you can invoke the healing touch 
 by clicking the icon and drawing a star onscreen. Lucky for you, its not as anal as the magnifier 
 circle. This will cause everything to go gray and slow down thus giving you that much needed edge 
 under extreme circumstancesat least for a limited time. 
  
  Each move you perform is graded with either a great, good, or bad grade though it deserves mentioning 
 that the grades arent too accurate. I found myself putting bandages over sutured incisions crooked 
 and being rewarded with a great score while putting one on perfectly yielded a mediocre good 
 score. Youre judged by speed and accuracy but it really seems hit or miss. At the end of every 
 operation youll get a rank based off of your total score which you can go back and attempt to 
 beat in the games challenge mode. Unfortunately, the tutorials that plague the earlier operations 
 are still present and cant be skipped which gets in the way especially when youve completed the 
 same procedure a few hundred times during the story mode. Yes, that was a slight exaggeration. 
 
  
  As is the case with almost every other game by Atlus, Trauma Center features a strong anime look 
 and feel. Cutscenes unfold with different drawings of characters depending on their (sometimes 
 over exaggerated) reactions a la Disgaea or Stella Deus. Operations feature 3D modeled organs and 
 bodies which all quiver and move in lifelike ways mixed with 2D sprites. Blood and other fluids 
 are kept to a bare minimum which shouldnt taint the experience for the squeamish and this is coming 
 from someone who couldnt watch that show called The Operation on the Discovery Channel a few years 
 ago. 
  
  Trauma Center doesnt offer a large variety in terms of sound, but then again it really doesnt 
 need to. The soundtrack sticks to some appropriate dramatic music that youd be able to encounter 
 on any TV hospital drama. Youll get various squishing and sucking sounds while using the different 
 tools which all fit in nicely. Youll get a limited amount of spoken dialog from your assistant 
 during a procedure like Doctor! and What is that?! but dont expect much. 
  
  Any fan of puzzle games, or DS owners for that matter will get a kick out of Trauma Center. Its 
 the kind of game that the handheld was designed for. Aside from being a unique title in and of 
 itself, it manages to utilize the capabilities of the DS that expand way beyond the point of being 
 gimmicky while at the same time establishing itself as one of the most intense and pulse pumping 
 puzzle games out there. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Enclume
Rating: 7.8
Date: Oct 19, 2005 11:13 pm PT
Review:  My friend rented this game while waiting for me. I then played it and found it rather innovative. 
 
  
  I will only speak about a flaw, for other info, see other people review.
  
  The stylus and screen don't seem to be very good. I almost lost a difficult operation (the second 
 operation where you get the healing touch) because the bandage didn't want to apply itself. I've 
 just unclog arteries, pumped blood but my patient will die because the damned Bandage wont go on 
 ? That was frustrating enough to let me drop the game. 
  
  Other then that, if you're good with the stylus, and manage to do everything on the right angle, 
 the game is very fun. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Pfilosophy
Rating: 8.6
Date: Oct 19, 2005 3:39 pm PT
Review:  Never before... well... not for a long time has a game made me worried about hurting someone. The 
 point of this game is simply amazing: save lives by performing complicated surgeries with utmost 
 precision at a break-neck pace. I don't know if it's anything like having to perform these in real 
 life (though I'm sure you have more than 5 minutes to do so and a tad more training) , but damn. 
 lol. You need to be able to concentrate and focus on what you need to do first and how you need 
 to do it and then... you do it calmly so as not to hurt anyone or cause panic.
  
  Opening up a stomach to get to a tumor and draining it ain't a very easy thing to do, but you gotta 
 do it quickly without thinking. The game gets hard quick, but I like that and think it's important. 
 The difficulty seems to make its own comment on what exactly the point of you're doing is: A very 
 hard procedure that only you can do and that's why you're the one holding the scalpel. Since you 
 play an unsung hero, the challenge reflects that. You're rewarded with knowing you saved a life 
 and it really does mean something once you're done. Especially since I killed the hell out of a 
 few people trying to figure out what exactly I needed to do.
  
  Since it's an Atlus game, there's a challenge mode, so that adds to the replay value. I gave it 
 all 8s because it's very good but not perfect in any sense. What truly makes the game worthy of 
 praise is exactly what you have to do. If this were a mahjong game, it wouldn't be the same at 
 all because it wouldn't matter. This game matters. And in a country full of redneck lawyers getting 
 uppity about the games young people, this and Phoenix Wright add a lot to our credability. "See? 
 Some games are designed to teach people how to HELP others." I tilted this baby a 10 because a 
 straight 8 is just no fair for this game.
  
  It's good, but hard. Prepare and take a deep breathe before entering it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bananaboy32
Rating: 8.8
Date: Oct 19, 2005 11:54 am PT
Review:  The game is absolutely amazing. it creates a blend of puzzle and twitch gaming that come together 
 and truly offer something that couldn't exist anywhere but the DS. The graphics are well done, 
 and the sound is pleasant. The story, although cheesy in the earlier stages of the game also picks 
 up near the middle of the game. The only issue with the game is that it is slightly short. You 
 can beat the main game in about 8-12 hours, but every operation has a challenge mode and as such, 
 you can get a lot of replay value out of the game trying to score the ever elusive S rank on each 
 mission. Games like Nintendogs have shown what can't be done anywhere else for non-gamers, but 
 Trauma Center shows a whole new side of this little handheld that could. If you own a DS, you owe 
 it to yourself to own this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: I-kick-rabbits
Rating: 8.6
Date: Oct 15, 2005 10:40 pm PT
Review:  An anime-drawn cliche game full of patients with shards of glass jammed into their body and the 
 removing of ulcers from their still moving intestines is pretty mad-crazy. One thing that drives 
 me crazy is trying to draw a straight alignment from the touch screen when I tape up something 
 and there's too much talking when you're up and ready for the paitient you're operating on. What 
 makes me mad is no matter how good I do the surgery, I still get a flippin' "C" for a grade. The 
 game is pretty cool though considering that I like anime, but I dunno much about hospitals, there's 
 always the egregious moments that make it up through all the chating to keep hitting the screen. 
 All in all, this game has it's ups and downs and everyone has their opinions, but I liked it and 
 it ranked an 8.6 with me. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: IagoDivergo
Rating: 8.3
Date: Oct 15, 2005 2:22 pm PT
Review:  Ever what it would be like to a master surgeon? What it would be like to use the latest medical 
 technology to fight the world's deadliest disease? What about how it would be like to have cute 
 nurses? If you wondered about any of this, Trauma Center: Under the Knife is the game for you.
 
  This Doctor Sim game is as innovative as the system it's on. It's incredibly creative and really 
 immersive. You can spend hours playing this game and forget entirely about the passage of time 
 as long as your patient makes out of the operation alive. 
  I really like game-play. You use the stylus as many different tools such as scalpel, a syringe, 
 a laser and others. As some would say it's a neo version of the classic board game, "Operation," 
 with the same general idea, removes harmful items from a patient. I would say if the board game 
 Operation was a dying man, then Trauma Center: Under the Knife is the six million dollar man, being 
 reborn and rebuilt with new technology.
  Learning how to play this game is really easy, because you have nurse basically telling you what 
 to do for the first few surgeries. That doesn't make the game easy; it takes great skill to do 
 as the nurses say. The sicknesses get more and more complex as your skills become better. 
  I recommend this game to anyone with a DS.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: valkyrie789
Rating: 7.9
Date: Oct 13, 2005 10:58 pm PT
Review:  trauma center has a strange concept but proves to be a fun game. If you liked operation and using 
 those forceps that when you touch the sides a buzzer goes off well in trauma center you get forceps 
 and a lot of other tools and if you never liked the buzzer then all you have to listen to know 
 is a annoying nurse. some operations are really hard and take a few times to get a hang of but 
 its not one of those where if you can't beat a level then you put the game down for a few weeks 
 because it's too hard, there is a second mode of gameplay where you can play operations of the 
 past one you have already beaten and kind of get more practice for other harder operations. overall 
 trauma center is one of the ds games so far and i would advise people to go out and buy it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Foolio1
Rating: 8.3
Date: Oct 10, 2005 11:03 pm PT
Review:  Trauma Center: Under the Knife is one of those where there's almost nothing like it out there. 
 It was developed by Atlus who is already known for some quirky games. In it you use your DS to 
 perform operations on people and play a doctor out to cure a deadly disease.
  
  Trauma Center has a unexpectedly deep story. It may not be something worthy of primetime TV, but 
 is better than you would expect from a little DS title. You play the rookiee doctor, Dr. Derek 
 Stiles. Starting out at Hope Hospital it takes him some time to get himself steady and takes a 
 few blunders until finally getting into a groove. Come to find out a he has a special super-concentration 
 known as the "Healing Touch" allowing him to work unbelieveably fast in surgery.
  
  The game is played exclusively with the touch screen. Lined up on each side of the touch-screen 
 are your tools. It's not quite realistic, but it's a believeable representation of the operating 
 experience even though it's more of a simplified representation of it. The bottom screen is the 
 work area where you'll be doing everything from removing tumors to stitching wounds. Above on the 
 top screen is where other characters will offer you tips. The first few operations help you get 
 acquainted with surgical procedure and getting you familiar with the tools. It doesn't take long 
 to get the hang of it. However, sometimes operations can be pretty hard, you have to work really 
 fast in order to be successful.
  
  It's nothing really stunninf visually. Sparse use of 3D models and the graphics are overall just 
 pretty simplified. Not to say it looks sloppy though. It's easy to navigate during operations and 
 really isn't too gross for those who may be a little squeemish. The character art is really well 
 done and looks fantastic. You'll be giving most of your attention to these during the cutscenes. 
 The game is pretty text-heavy so there is quite a bit of reading.
  
  The sound is really very good. Aside from the gameplay, the sound is probably one of Trauma Center's 
 best features. The music sounds great and is really clear, most of it is dramatic in style to give 
 the stress of operation on a patient, something alongs the lines of what you would hear on a show 
 like ER. There are a few sound clips of speech that characters will blurt out which also are of 
 an excellent quality.
  
  As for replayability, there's the option of being able to go back and try and get better rankings 
 on previous operations. Overall, Trauma Center is a fun an unique game. Gamespot put it well that 
 it plays more like a puzzler than a simulation game, which makes it addicting and fun. It's fast 
 paced and really just a terrific game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Yagami-Iori
Rating: 6.8
Date: Oct 11, 2005 12:38 pm PT
Review:  Trauma Center is a game in which you play a rookie doctor in his little anime EResque world as 
 he comes to learn of an ability he has called "Healing Touch." This ability allows him to work 
 in a highened state, like time has slowed. This is where the story begins to take off... and also 
 where the game can become more of a chore than a fun experience.
  
  Gameplay- 6- This game is a great start for what could be a great game series. But the leaning 
 of the gameplay on the "Healing Touch" ability really hinders the game. Instead of a level just 
 being difficult, which I do not mind at all, you are usually forced into using the healing touch 
 ability & doing a level over & over until you get the pattern just right to move to the next episode. 
 If it was just a difficult game, it'd be great, but to me, it almost seems to me like this "healing 
 touch" was a game mechanic added to make up for task being otherwise impossible.
  
  Graphics- 8- The body parts look like their representative parts and everything is smooth.
  
 
  Sound- 9- The sounds fit the actions and the voices that are present are crisp & clear.
  
  Value- 9- This could be a great series in the future...
  
  Tilt- 7- But the "Healing Touch" 
 needs to go 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
