-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Trauma Center: Under the Knife 2
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/ds/adventure/traumacenterundertheknife2/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 Fast-paced, addictive gameplay.
 Plenty of operation variety.
 Multiple difficulty settings.
 Strong supporting story.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 Too much dialogue between operations.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Jul  1, 2008
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 8.5
Critic Score: 8.1, 27 Review (s)
User Score: 8.5, 282 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Atlus Co.
Genre: Action
Date: Jul 2, 2008
ESRB: Teen

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Under the Knife 2 is a fast-paced medical puzzler that's as infectious as its predecessor. 

 
  Trauma Center: Under the Knife 2 is the sequel to 2005's Under the Knife, which introduced the 
 world to the amazing Dr. Derek Stiles and a deadly infection concocted by a crazed terrorist group 
 hell-bent on destroying humanity. Many puzzle fans couldn't put the game down despite its outrageous 
 plot and painful difficulty, and the sequel is just as addictive. Though you'll still spend time 
 fighting fictional diseases spread by bioterrorism, Under the Knife 2 is such an exceptional medical-themed 
 puzzler that you'll forget the game's absurdity as you're sucked in by its consuming gameplay. 

           Prepare to be astounded by Dr. Derek Stiles and his magical hands.      

  The game recasts you as Derek Stiles and opens in Costigar, a fictional African state attempting 
 to recover from decades of brutal civil war. It has been three years since the eradication of GUILT, 
 the man-made infection crafted by terrorists, and though it has been successfully treated worldwide, 
 it seems that those who had previously suffered from the disease have developed new symptoms, prompting 
 Derek to return to the United States to contend with new strains.  

  Gameplay in Under the Knife 2 proceeds in much the same fashion as in the original, and operations 
 play out in chapter episodes after a cutscene provides the appropriate backdrop. Before each operation, 
 you're given a patient briefing and a surgical objective by your assistant, after which the standard 
 five-minute time limit appears and the patient's life is in your hopefully very steady hands. You 
 work externally to internally, making incisions with the scalpel, removing foreign objects with 
 the forceps, and coating the patient's wounds in the strongest antibacterial gel ever created. 
 You complete an operation by fixing whatever ails the patient and are awarded a rank according 
 to how quickly and effectively you work.  

  Though it sounds simple enough, operations in Under the Knife 2 quickly intensify because the fast-paced 
 procedures require you to tackle multiple tasks simultaneously; the difficulty comes not in any 
 one procedure's complexity but in the speed with which you need to perform it as you struggle to 
 stabilize a patient's vitals while feverishly sucking out pools of pus and zapping tumors. This 
 hectic push for speed is the game's high point and significantly increases an operation's difficulty -- since 
 the slightest slip of the hand damages a patient's vitals. Fortunately Derek has a healing touch 
 ability, which appears to slow time as he moves faster than an infection can progress. You'll also 
 receive clear verbal cues about your next procedure from your assistant, which is a blessing when 
 a patient's condition is spiraling out of control and you're clueless as to what to do next.  

 
  If you've spent any time at all with the Trauma Center series, then the game's standard tool offering 
 won't surprise you; in fact, most of the tools are identical to those in the original game and 
 function similarly, with the exception of the defibrillator, which comes in handy when patients 
 go into cardiac arrest. You drain disgusting bodily fluids by drawing the stylus up from the target 
 pool, stitch up gaping wounds by zigzagging the stylus across them, and make clean incisions with 
 the scalpel by following the dotted line. Any sloppy suturing isn't likely to get you chastised, 
 but Under the Knife 2 is more of a fast-paced puzzler than a straight medical simulation, and the 
 mixture of both elements makes the game incredibly fun and addictive. The surprising amount of 
 operation variety is also refreshing considering the plot's heavy focus on the new GUILT; you'll 
 do an organ transplant, extract fragmented bones in the dark, inject color-coded serum into bacteria, 
 and even play laser tag with giant moving tumors.  

  Atlus took Under the Knife's strongest criticism to heart when designing its sequel, forgoing a 
 single punishing difficulty level for three difficulty modes. You can adjust these for individual 
 chapters, which should make the game accessible to anyone intimidated by the original game's insane 
 difficulty. You'll still end up repeating a fair number of operations, even on normal mode, but 
 the additional settings make it possible for you to do so without pulling your hair out, which 
 is a welcome improvement.  

  The game's presentation is similar to its predecessor's; the instructions, time limit, and stage 
 score are displayed on the top screen, and the operation field is on the bottom. Patient models 
 are in 3D and feature comparatively more-realistic organs and wounds, while the game's 2D anime 
 style has been toned down a bit so that characters look less comical. With that said, their dialogue 
 is still ridiculously melodramatic at times, complete with "I'm a doctor!" and "Pull yourself together!" 
 lines. The music is very quick and upbeat, with great tunes supplied during key operations that 
 are sure to get your blood pumping. Minimal voice work is also provided to emphasize important 
 plot segments.  

           Remove pieces of bone and suture wounds to save your patient's life.      

  Under 
 the Knife 2's only flaw is that it feels a bit light on content, offering only 38 operations that 
 take a few minutes each to play through. You won't necessarily complete them all first time, of 
 course, but even allowing for failed attempts and lengthy cutscenes it shouldn't take you more 
 15 hours or so to beat the game. Finishing the game does grant you access to "confidential" operations, 
 but these are set on extreme difficulty, leaving those who shied away from the hard setting woefully 
 unprepared for the challenges ahead. Even with these bonus operations the game still feels padded, 
 containing entire episodes without operations that amount to little more than lengthy dialogue 
 filler. There's some replay value at least, since the ranking system encourages you to repeat past 
 surgeries to increase your score. All in all, Trauma Center: Under the Knife 2 successfully blends 
 a creative medical theme with bizarre but fun puzzle gameplay to create an addictive treat.  

 
      
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (19 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: FelisLeo1980
Rating: 8
Date: Jan 10, 2009 2:52 am PT
Review:  Trauma Center: Under the Knife brought successfully the sense of drama of a TV's hospital series 
 into a game format. Experience was essentially a puzzle game that required lots of trial and error 
 gameplay. Sequel is here and it offers more the same with multiple difficulty levels.
  
  Story starts in Africa, Camp Zakara in Republic of Costigar where Dr. Stiles and Angie Thompson 
 are treating patients three years after the events of the first game. This African episode acts 
 as a long tutorial and shortly you'll be travelling to USA in Caduceus hospital at Angeles Bay. 
 Your job now is to treat PGS or Post-GUILT Syndrome. GUILT was the main issue in the first game 
 and it's an artificial infectious disease. In my opinion being a surgeon is already so exotic that 
 you don't need to add any super viruses or space mutants in order to make a good game. Story is 
 told via still images and LOTS of text: sometimes it can take up to 25 minutes just to read an 
 extensive dialog before you can actually play.
  
  Graphics are pretty much exactly the same as before, but still it doesn't feel old or used. Colors 
 are mostly bright and white, just as you would expect from a hospital environment. Music is impressively 
 good and although it loops quite often it still doesn't get too irritating to listen. Sound effects 
 are appropriate and aside from short shouts there is no real voice acting involved.
  
  Gameplay is done with the stylus and you wouldn't want to do it in any other way. Everything works 
 smoothly after you've given yourself enough time to learn the ropes. Trauma Center is essentially 
 a puzzle game, where each operation consists of numerous puzzles you need to solve in order to 
 make progress. This concept still causes much trial and error gameplay especially on a higher difficulty 
 setting. So keep this in mind when considering about making a purchase.
  
  Trauma Center: Under the Knife 2 is a quality game and still quite unique among video games. Unfortunately 
 it's also the definition of "more the same". 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ninjasock
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 2, 2009 5:29 am PT
Review:  This is the first Trauma center game i bought. i never bothered with the first game for some reason? 
 But after playing this game i was amazed at how original and brilliant it is. Graphically it is 
 great, the bodys the tumors, the blood all are very well done. Gameplay is even better, there is 
 a wide choice of medical supplies that you will need and all work perfectly on the DS. The story 
 of TC2 is very immersive, you start off in Africa where a war is going on and you have to treat 
 various patients, all of which have different illnesses and then move back to USA where there are 
 post GUILT patients. The story is well put together and i enjoyed it. I would recommend that if 
 you own a DS you should buy this game as it is very enjoyable and easy to play. I will have to 
 go and buy the first one and the Wii games after playing this game. Overall i give this game a 
 9.2 
::::::

::::::
UserName: shadowdweller12
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 21, 2008 1:34 pm PT
Review:  The whole concept of this game is great. Like any other game, you start of small and go big. The 
 first few missions are pretty simple, and it may get boring at times. But once you get into about 
 the 3rd chapter, it just gets better and better. A perfect score for the perfect game. The stylus 
 is used perfectly, and even the microphone is used. One of the best parts, however, is the character 
 design and voice acting. They're anime appearances are just so awesome, and the voice acting is 
 clear and perfect. Possibly the most interesting part, however, is the gaming company (Atlus) and 
 their ability to perfectly imagine diseases. G. U. I. L. T, the main diseases, comes in many stages. 
 Each stage is like a puzzle, only solved by using intellect. So if you are looking for a great 
 DS game, TCUTK2 the way to go. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: zolo913
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 22, 2008 7:34 am PT
Review:  Trauma Center Under the Knife 2 is the most recent game in the Trauma Center franchise. You play 
 as Derek Stiles, on of the best surgeons in the world of surgery. Your goal in the game is to stop 
 the virus known as GUILD and prevent it from ever killing anybody. This game is unique in the fact 
 that it's a game revolving around the world of doctors and surgeries. The graphics and visual presentations 
 are excellent. The game play is a major improvement from the last game. In the previous game, trying 
 to get through a level in the game was virtually impossible. The developers made this game hard 
 still, but they gave the game a variety of difficulty settings. So if you can't defeat a level 
 in the game at your current difficulty, you are able to make it easier to win. It's a very welcomed 
 improvement and it makes the experience much more manageable and fun. Also, when you lose during 
 the operation, there's a replay option which takes you to the beginning of the operation. Also, 
 very nice. The music is decent and sometimes bland, but it's a surgery game. What can you expect? 
 Now for the down-side. Trauma Center has always been big on dialogue and this is no exception. 
 At the beginning and end of each operation, there's a whole bunch of dialogue. So much that it 
 slows down the game and makes it boring. It also makes it hard to follow at times. In the end, 
 this is a game an amazing game. By the way, if blood and organs make you sick, then don't get this 
 game. It's very realistic. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: racine75
Rating: 8
Date: Nov 19, 2008 5:27 am PT
Review:  Well what do you know? I must not have been the only gamer to complain about the excessive difficulty 
 level of trauma center 1 and the lack of a customisation feature... This installment of trauma 
 center allows for a per-operation customisation (easy/medium/hard) and makes it possbile to go 
 all the way to the end of the game for normal gamers such as myself. And when I say normal gamers 
 I mean those people who do spend way too much time on their gaming equipment but won't pretend 
 the game was far too easy when in reality they never made it past the first big boss.
  
  So, I should be the happiest DS owner ever with such a game. It's perfect for the DS as it focuses 
 entirely on the stylus and even makes use of the microphone (just on a single operation, agreed, 
 but still) , the interface has remained the same and still looks great yet simple, the graphics 
 follow the same simple/efficient/good-looking guideline, the learning curve is still integrated 
 to the game, and the simple fast-paced music of the first installment has been reused as is and 
 still gets your heart pounding in the middle of a tough operation. That's it, it all spells out: 
 PERFECT GAME!
  
  Unfortunately, there's a downside. A big one! It comes as a huge disappointment that the storyline 
 has been treated as a secondary concern only. The character development is almost inexistent, set 
 aside one new character you never get even close to liking as he's only there to shine a good light 
 onto your own game incarnation: Derek Styles. Scenes in between operations are not just boring, 
 they're very (and I mean very) long. That makes them all the more boring indeed. This quickly gives 
 you the feeling you're just being navigated from one operation to the other with a worthless scenario. 
 There's even a petty attempt to build some kind of love interest between Styles and his nurse halfway 
 through the game, but by the time this developed I was already well into pressing the A button 
 consistently until I could at last get on with the operating procedures. I'm the kind of guy who 
 finishes a book he's started even though he's kept yawning through the first hundred pages. I read 
 software manuals for heck's sake! And they got ME to abandon reading their stuff: yes, it's that 
 bad!
  
  All in all, TC2 is a great game. Despite the deficient scenario, I took immense pleasure in playing 
 it and figuring out how to make it through tough spots. Had the makers been more concerned with 
 writing a good storyline, I would without a second thought have given it a 10. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Peach100
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 3, 2008 11:53 am PT
Review:  I really enjoyed the first Trauma Center game. It's sequel, however, is much, much better. The 
 storyline is not dumb and you can follow along and understand it without being felt like you're 
 lost. The characters, even though they still don't actually talk or move, are still seen as real 
 because of they great way the graphics portray them. Here and there the characters do say some 
 words though. Like, "Dr. Stiles!" or "Um, excuse me." Little sayings like that.
  
  Once again you play as Dr. Derek Stiles who saves patient's lives along with your trusted nurse 
 Angie Thompson.
  
  This game is even more awesome then the first. This time around you get to choose the difficulty 
 you would like to play on. Easy, Medium or Hard. And even if you're a couple of operations in you 
 can still switch to easy and resume your operation without having to restart the entire game.
 
  
  The music is wonderful. It really captures you and makes you feel apart of the game. While operating 
 the dramatic music is playing in the background and makes you feel as if you actually are a doctor 
 and are saving the patient's life!
  
  Some players may not appreciate the storyline and may complain about there being too much text 
 between the operations. I, for one, do not agree with that however. The dialog is not dull and 
 boring, it's got life. And even if some dialog here and there are in fact boring the graphics and 
 music make up for it at that moment.
  
  I recommend this game to anyone who has enjoyed the first Trauma Center or who enjoys games such 
 as Trauma Center. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Dymond7
Rating: 7.5
Date: Oct 4, 2008 12:32 am PT
Review:  Introduction: Fourth game in the series, The original was on the DS first, and than it came out 
 on the Wii and the Wii version got a sequel and now, this is a sequel to the original on the DS.
 
  
  Concept: Your a surgeon and you operate on people using your stylus, that's basically the concept 
 of the game, is it fun? yes it is really fun, but It's incredibly hard, and I honestly would've 
 given this game an 8.5, but I didn't since, it's basically the same gameplay from the original 
 on the DS, with new medical case's that are set in Africa or something like that, but the the experience 
 is still fun like the original and if you never played the original than I would give it a 9/10 
 but if played the previous game than I would give a 7/10, because like I said, there isn't a whole 
 lot that's new.
  
  Graphics: Not much of an update in term's of graphic's, they're just a little better than the graphic's 
 on the previous game on the DS, but your too focused on saving your patient to the point that you 
 don't have the time to look at anything, and it isn't really a major factor in the game really.
 
  
  Story: Well, there isn't much story in the game, you just play as a surgeon, but between every 
 surgeory there this little story in them, but it's not a deep story with twist's and turn's, just 
 a simple fast story so you understand what happend to the patient before he got injured or sick 
 or something like that.
  
  --------------------------------------------------------
  
  Good Aspect: Pulling a bullet off a patient's heart is very fun and addictive, It's never get's 
 old, and basically it's a very good "portable" game.
  
  Bad Aspect: Nothing new to the gameplay, no WiFi, but that's not such a big problem and the difficulty 
 of the game can drive insane sometimes and it kind'a ruin's the experience sometimes.
  --------------------------------------------------------
  Overall: If you don't own the original 
 like me, than I suggest you buy this game, but if you have the original I would suggest only getting 
 the Wii version to get a different sort of experince, but only if you want more medical cases and 
 so on, I would suggest it and either way, it really is an amazing game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Platyphyllum
Rating: 8.5
Date: Aug 23, 2008 11:41 am PT
Review:  The Trauma Center series has been one of the more unique series as of recently. Atlus took advantage 
 of the DS' unique interface and made use of it to create a game where you played as a surgeon. 
 This game was Trauma Center: Under the Knife and it was surprisingly fun and challenging which 
 led to it having great success upon its North American release. So far, a remake for the Wii known 
 as Trauma Center: Second Opinion was released and a sequel of sorts known as Trauma Center: New 
 Blood was also released for the Wii. New Blood may have been a sequel, but the lead characters 
 from the first DS game were not playable and did not have much of a presence. A direct sequel to 
 the first game was announced and it was to be known as Trauma Center: Under the Knife 2 and was 
 labeled as the "true sequel" by fans. This game has finally been released and thankfully, it's 
 another great addition to the series and while it doesn't bring anything new, it still improves 
 upon the first DS game.
  
  You once again play as a surgeon known as Derek Stiles who must perform a number of operations 
 together with his lovely assistant Angie Thompson. Fans of the first game will remember that Dr. 
 Stiles had seemingly gotten rid of the deadly disease known as GUILT. He is now famous and is receiving 
 lots of attention from the media. While the first game's story dealt with Derek's rise to fame, 
 this one focuses on what happens after he (together with the team at the health organization known 
 as Caduceus) eradicates GUILT. In other words, the story focuses more on the different problems 
 that Derek has to go through because of his new popularity and the different situations Caduceus 
 must go through as different medical companies try to get affiliated with them. While the plot 
 itself isn't too amazing (yet still has large amount of text which can be annoying) and flows really 
 unnaturally at times (at one moment you're doing normal operations and next you're kidnapped by 
 terrorists) , it's still interesting enough to hold this game together.
  
  This game may not be well known for its plot but where it really shines is its gameplay. Trauma 
 Center: Under the Knife 2 strikes a good balance between keeping the same feel of its predecessor 
 yet it still adds a few new touches to improve upon the first game's gameplay mechanics. Those 
 who mastered the first game will be able to adjust very easily to this one as you'll be seeing 
 all the tools that you used in the first game. There are also a few new tools added like the defibrillator 
 and a penlight which is used in dark areas and while these tools were present in the Wii versions, 
 it's nice to know that they can just as easily be used on the DS.
  
  The main attraction of the game's mechanics this time around is the variety in the operations. 
 The first game got a bit repetitive towards the end because all that you ever seemed to be operating 
 on was GUILT and the next operations always consisted of just harder forms of GUILT. It seemed 
 as if Derek and Angie were now a specialized medical team who only treated the GUILT disease. It's 
 much more realistic this time though as you will now occasionally be treating bullet wounds, hemorrhaging, 
 and applying skin grafts onto inflamed pieces of skin and each patient has a different problem. 
 This is a refreshing change of pace and makes this game much better than the first in terms of 
 gameplay.
  
  Atlus has also listened to many people's complaints and have fixed some of the other problems of 
 the gameplay by making the tool icons bigger and the health bar a bit more visible. One of the 
 bigger minor problems which many people complained about in the first game was the difficulty level 
 which Atlus also fixed. Instead of one predetermined difficulty level that's really hard, Atlus 
 now gives us three difficulty modes to choose from which are Easy, Normal, and Hard. Those who 
 enjoyed the challenge of the first game should look towards Normal and Hard while those who liked 
 the first game but could never finish it because they lacked the coordination and reflexes can 
 still enjoy the game on Easy. Its nice touches like these which show that Atlus does listen to 
 its fans and all these factors ultimately make Trauma Center: Under the Knife 2 a much better experience 
 than the first game in terms of gameplay.
  
  Even though Atlus could've made a great sequel solely by its gameplay improvements, they also decided 
 to upgrade the game's graphics. The slightly pixelated backgrounds of the first Trauma Center are 
 gone and replaced with much cleaner looking visuals. The characters also thankfully lost their 
 simple anime character design and have been replaced with the more detailed and likable character 
 designs from Trauma Center: Second Opinion. The operation interface itself looks much cleaner with 
 bigger tool selection buttons and a much more stylish look. The organs also look a bit more realistic 
 together with the blood. Overall, this game looks beautiful for a DS game and is a definite improvement 
 over its somewhat cheap-looking predecessor.
  
  The new music is a love it or hate it affair. While the Trauma Center: Under the Knife had a more 
 dramatic feel and was composed by Shoji Meguro (musical composer of some of the Shin Megami Tensei 
 games) , this Trauma Center has a more upbeat and techno style composed by Manabu Namiki. Some fans 
 like the new music, others don't like it, it's simple as that. If you're more into upbeat catchy 
 techno music that makes operating o n someone's body actually feel fun then you'll love the music 
 of this game, but if you don't then prepare to be disappointed. I personally liked both though 
 and I though that this game's music pretty good. Aside from the music which you will like depending 
 on your opinion, the audio is great. The characters have more voice acting this time around, and 
 many of the sound effects sound appropriate with a few being over exaggerated (cuts that are made 
 during the operation still sound like sword slashes)
  
  In terms of length and content, this game doesn't offer much. There are only 38 operations in the 
 main storyline and your first playthrough can easily last only around 10 hours. What this game 
 is rich in however is replayability. Right after you complete an operation, you are given a rating 
 of either C, B, A, S, or XS. Perfectionists will keep on playing an operation several times until 
 they get at least an A or an S which can greatly extend the playtime for this game. Not to mention 
 that there are a few incredibly hard bonus missions added once you finish the game once which you 
 are bound to keep retrying before you even succeed at them. This can easily make the game's length 
 rise to above 20 hours meaning that as long as you aren't content with just finishing the main 
 story on Easy, this game will definitely keep you occupied.
  
  In the end, the one thing that Trauma Center: Under the Knife 2 can be described as is an improvement. 
 It manages to keep the same feel of the first Under the Knife game yet it improves on so many aspects. 
 The gameplay has improved greatly with multiple difficulty choices and a cleaner interface, the 
 graphics are more detailed, there's more voice acting, and the game is still as addictive as the 
 first one. I would recommend this to all the people who loved the first game and anyone who just 
 wants to have a nice and fun DS game to play as this is much more accessible (yet it can still 
 be challenging for hardcore fans) than the first game and is an improvement in almost every way. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: zikimaru88
Rating: 8
Date: Aug 19, 2008 1:46 pm PT
Review:  The awnser is up to you. If your looking for an innovative and very addicting game, look no more. 
 Trauma Center UTK2 is the sequel to UTK and it has its ups and downs. 
  
  
  Gameplay: Heart pownding, addictive surgery, using a selection of tools to save and cure the patient. 
 It gets really hard but also rewarding in a way that youve feeled you actually accomplished something. 
 The overall game is pretty long, and with multiple difficulties and extra operations, the game 
 should last you a good two months.
  
  Graphics: The character sprites looked polished, and the in game graphics are great.
  
  Sound: 
 Beep, Beep, Beep, Beep. Thats the sound youll hear constantly and it makes you very nervous when 
 it beeps faster. Also, the little tidbits of voices are nice too.
  
  Multiplayer: None
  
  Unlockables and Extra Content: A fair amount, but not much.
  
  Replay Value: So-so.
  
 
  Final Comments: A great game for hardcore ds fans, but the casual gamer not might find much to 
 like. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dalamplighter
Rating: 7.5
Date: Aug 15, 2008 8:28 am PT
Review:  This is an okay game. It's gonna take you about 12 hours max, 8 if you are a fan of the series, 
 so don't expect a long game. Anyways, the only reason I gave this a 7.5 is the raw gameplay. There 
 is so much bad, like... medical inaccuracy, horrendous story, lame character models, and low replay 
 value, aside from the X Missions. There are 3 different difficulty levels, Easy, Normal, Hard, 
 and the X Missions. Anyways, I'm not even going to talk about the story. Basically, you're a talented 
 doctor with the Healing Touch, which slows down time in surgery. Also, there is a bioweapon called 
 GUILT that comes in 7 varieties, increasing in difficulty over the game. You also remove tumors, 
 do transplants, perform brain surgery, graft skin, etc. Basically, buy this for the gameplay, not 
 the story. A
  
  
  Rundown:
  Gameplay:11/10
  Story: 1/10
  Interactivity: 8/10
  Accuracy: 2/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bluej33
Rating: 7
Date: Aug 15, 2008 6:51 am PT
Review:  When you're dealing with a series like Trauma Center, only the first can be a truly great game. 
 It's a series that thrives on novelty and that can be undone by the over-releases that characterizes 
 many of Nintendo's great franchises. Without that creative spark -- some new addition to the game, 
 something significant to mix things up -- a sequel is going to be something of a disappointment. 
 And sadly, that's exactly what's happened to Trauma Center: Under the Knife 2.
  
  That's not to say that Under the Knife 2 is a bad game, because it's not. If you're like myself 
 and loved the original to death, you'll still find something to enjoy in Under the Knife 2. But 
 the fact of the matter is it just doesn't have the same feel of the original. The frantic, challenging, 
 and addictive gameplay is, for the most part, still there. And in many ways, the sequel is better 
 than the original. 
  
  I don't know what happened, but while technically Under the Knife 2 is superior than the original 
 in most every way, there are so many stupid little problems that just weren't around in the first 
 game. What seemed cutting-edge and cool in the original Under the Knife feels stupid in the sequel. 
 The game's plot is one of the worst offenders, and it takes the medical terrorism theme too far. 
 The original game had a story that seemed worth of a primetime TV show. This time aroundnot so 
 much. 
  
  Then there's the matter of the operations themselves; at its core, Under the Knife 2 is little 
 more than a thinly disguised puzzle title interspersed with some trite dialogue. Admittedly, that's 
 what all the past games have been as well. But Under the Knife 2 does very little to conceal it's 
 beginnings as a puzzle game and as a result many of the new operations feel very much like simple 
 "match up the colors" tasks. 
  
  Which brings up another problem: there's so little truly new content in Under the Knife 2. Of course, 
 with the same set of surgical tools as the original plus the defibrillator, it might seem there's 
 not a whole lot of novel potential in a new set of some 25 surgeries. But the original game boasted 
 a number of different types of GUILT, and sadly the same can't really be said for Under the Knife 
 2. There are just a handful of new GUILT strains, despite the fact that the story of this game 
 revolves around a new outbreak. 
  
  Pretend for just a moment that you're a medical terrorist. Three years ago, you unleashed a number 
 of devastating viruses on the public. But unfortunately for your terrorist schemes, the strains 
 were defeated. Now a few years later, you're at it again. Wouldn't it be a good idea to, say, develop 
 a new, unheard-of virus? After all, re-releasing a virus that was stopped just a few years ago 
 seems a little fruitless. But in the mess of a plot that Atlus cooked up, such an action is perfectly 
 acceptable. Way to go, stupid terrorists. 
  
  Instead, you'll find yourself facing off against a few new GUILT strains and the same number of 
 old ones. Additionally, you'll face off against something called Post-Guilt Syndrome which is essentially 
 just an excuse to make mundane surgeries as difficult as possible. The operations lack variety 
 and the new ones pale compared to the original GUILT. It feels more like a Trauma Center 1.5 and 
 Atlus did fans a disservice by releasing this Under the Knife "expansion pack". 
  
  Trauma Center: Under the Knife was a niche classic. The sequel is not. Atlus has attempted to make 
 its newest Trauma Center title more accessible than before but sadly, the result is not all that 
 desirable. Making a game accessible is always a good thing. But dumbing a game down in order to 
 achieve that goal is not. Sadly, Under the Knife 2 meanders along the latter path, making the game 
 simpler and easier than before. 
  
  This alone is disappointing enough. But Under the Knife 2 does something even worse: it flips back 
 and forth between being an "easy-to-pick-up" title and the hardcore classic it was originally. 
 While the selectable difficulty modes are certainly a plus, even "hard" feels only about as difficult 
 as the original game. So in order to make the game a touch more difficult at times without ramping 
 up the challenge of the entire game, we get a couple of ridiculously stupid operations. For example, 
 in one the staff has been too busy to notice they're out of stabilizer and low on gel, so you'll 
 have to go through the entire operation without healing. Or having the game force you perform the 
 same lock-destroying process four times in a row (the stupid terrorists are at it again) . Stuff 
 like this feels really cheap and shallow, and the dev team would have been better off omitting 
 it entirely. 
  
  I've been ragging on this game some, but it doesn't mean that it's absolutely no good. In fact, 
 compared to many DS titles on the market, Under the Knife 2 is pretty solid. But the original was 
 a groundbreaking game and therefore this sequel had a lot to live up to. I hate to say it, but 
 it comes as no great surprise that living up to the original is just something the Under the Knife 
 2 cannot do. Regardless, it's still an enjoyable game. If you never played the first Trauma Center, 
 this is a nice introduction to the series thanks to its relative ease (you'll be missing some plot 
 points but to be frank, that's not a big deal) . If, on the other hand, you played the first, think 
 hard before picking up the sequel. Yes, it's more Trauma Center and that's never a bad thing. But 
 it's a significant disappointment and just never matches the caliber of greatness that the first 
 achieved. If you'll be okay with that, Under the Knife 2 is a worthy purchase. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: blooxpert
Rating: 10
Date: Aug 13, 2008 1:14 pm PT
Review:  well I looked into this game a couple of weeks ago. It looked actully really cool, so I tried it 
 out in the nintendo channel. I just grew attached to it. This game was very addictive and also 
 fun. Now a online feature would be nice, and when your playing it, yo... Im speechless. It is simply 
 amazing I would recommend this to a friend and my friend already bought it. you have alot of levels, 
 I havn't finished it quite yet, but im in the last level. Now the game go's into chapter's. But 
 they talk way too much, thats the only thing I didnt like. all in all it is a amazing game. and 
 it looks like I have to keep this review going lol. My family loves the game my little brother 
 loves the game but except the reading. The music is also great! it gets you in the feeling of the 
 game? and it sounds really nice. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Strikerfan116
Rating: 10
Date: Aug 11, 2008 3:49 pm PT
Review:  The undeniable star out of the franchise, Trauma Center Under The Knife 2 is freaking awesome in 
 every way. First of all, there's a ranking system. In your first time going through the game, it'll 
 be just clearing the operations to move forward, but the second time in, you'll be trying your 
 best to get S ranks and the elusive XS ranks in all the missions. This feature alone gives Trauma 
 Center a remarkable replay experience. Second, the auto suture feature was put into this game (after 
 being featured in SO ad NB) . This feature means that the game decides where to put the next suture. 
 For some hardcore fans who have played UTK 1 will probably dislike this feature cause it makes 
 the game less difficult. I, am kinda one of them. After playing UTK 1 for so long, I was the undeniable 
 champ. Now after switching over to UTK 2, I am still the undeniable champ, but now, whenever I 
 put in that old cartridge in, i cant suture, cause I have gotten so used to the auto suture, i 
 suck at suturing in UTK now. That aside, UTK 2 is a great gaming experience and definitely worth 
 picking up. Its a great addition to the DS library, but a hard game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: heavyrawk
Rating: 8
Date: Jul 26, 2008 9:39 am PT
Review:  Okay, the first Trauma Center on DS was amazingly addictive, and the story line was straight, and 
 to the point, which allowed for quick dialogue and a fair amount of gaming. Under the Knife 2, 
 unfortunately, has way too much dialogue for my taste. So much so, that i find myself constantly 
 tapping the touch screen while the dialogue is en route, paying no mind to the dialogue, because, 
 quite frankly, there's just too much and reading in anything else but a book is not exactly my 
 cup of tea. 
  
  Don't get me wrong, I'm sure the storyline is just as good (possibly better?) than the first, gameplay 
 is still as addictive as ever, and visuals and audio have improved to make gaming a little more 
 enjoyable. 
  
  Overall, I give Under the Knife 2 a 8, due to endless dialogue which seem to over power the gameplay 
 and will probably have most, if not all, tapping away at the touch screen awaiting the arrival 
 of the next operation. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Kayos90
Rating: 9
Date: Jul 13, 2008 12:12 am PT
Review:  Trauma Center: Under the Knife 2 Review 
  
  Gameplay --------- 9
  Graphics ---------- 8
  Sound ------------- 8
  Tilt ----------------10
  Lasting Value --- 
 9
  
  Trauma Center 2 is a continuation of the first Trauma Center released for the DS years ago and 
 also a sequel of the remake Second Opinion. TC2 fixes many of the problems that its predecessor 
 had and improves on the game with various new features. Needless to say this game is a very fine 
 and well crafted game and so far the best of the series. 
  
  The story of Trauma Center 2 takes place 3 years after the main character Derek Stiles stopped 
 the bio-terrorism of Delphi with his helpful nurse Angie Thompson. Derek and Angie are stationed 
 somewhere in Africa researching a certain outbreak that has occurred, however, due to complications 
 back in the USA he is ordered to return only to find out that something horrible has happened. 
 GUILT, the chiral disease that Delphi created, is mostly eliminated but there are Post-GUILT Symptoms 
 that various patients are having. Derek must treat many patients suffering from PGS and face a 
 new threat that soon arises.
  
  Gameplay of TC2 can basically be broken down into the following steps. You choose a sub-chapter 
 within the chapter of a game, go through multiple dialogue and character interaction, finally a 
 problem arises and you operate on the patient. Now the game is broken up into 7 chapters with multiple 
 sub-chapters in each chapter so there is a lot diversity of operations as well as numerous repeats; 
 also another feature brought back from the previous TC games is the X missions which are set to 
 Extreme difficulty only passing a few skilled players of the franchise. A problem that the previous 
 TC had that this game does not is difficulty. You can progress through various operations on a 
 normal difficulty or hard but if the operations later on get too hard then you can tone down the 
 difficulty to normal or easy anytime you'd like. This gives players the option to choose and continue 
 with a lower difficulty or persevere through the harder difficulties. The user interface of the 
 game is well designed and everything is easy to locate and read though many players won't pay attention 
 to this once they're concentrated on their patients. The operations are much diverse than the previous 
 games with new sicknesses, new treatments, and new equipments. You have the defibrillator when 
 the patient goes into cardiac arrest or you have the option to use the penlight when in darkness. 
 TC2 takes various types of operations and equipment from Second Opinion and New Blood and integrates 
 it well onto the portable version. However, even if you are offered a lot of new equipment it just 
 means that the operations will be that much harder. The gameplay is difficult by far out of all 
 the Trauma Center games but that shouldn't discourage you. The game does a good job of reading 
 stylus commands on the touch screen and the way certain equipment is handled well. Skill and speed 
 is what makes a good player in this game and once you completed a mission that seemed near impossible 
 you will be rewarded greatly.
  
  The graphics and art style have taken quite a different direction from the original Trauma Center 
 on the DS to Second Opinion and to New Blood. Trauma Center had simple westernized anime graphics, 
 Second Opinion had the true Japanese style finished anime graphics, and New Blood adapted from 
 Second Opinion with the added orange ambient art styling. TC2 decided to take the Second Opinion's 
 art style with the character design and it does a good job with it. Everything from the character 
 shots to the scenery of a certain location looks well drawn and seems slick. When you are in surgery, 
 the art style changes from the anime style to a more 3-D, realistic style. The art is improved 
 from the DS predecessor but sometimes you wish that the graphics could've been more polished so 
 that certain injuries or problems on the patient seem more apparent. Overall the graphics are decent 
 if not good on the DS.
  
  Sound is an important aspect within the game and is sometimes crucial if you are doing an operation 
 that you've never done before. When you do an operation your nurse will say to you what tool to 
 use and how to use it sometimes. This is very helpful especially when you don't know what to do 
 on the patient. Another feature added to this version of TC that the previous DS version did not 
 have before is voicing in the conversational parts of the game. While this is a nice and pretty 
 feature for the game the creators went a little overboard with it. A lot of the vocal pieces are 
 re-used and the emotion that the voices have don't seem to fit in certain situations and when you 
 hear the same vocals 50 times it gets a bit repetitive, regardless it's a nice feature to have. 
 The musical part of the game is very catchy and it still has the dramatic music, upbeat classical, 
 and much more.
  
  This game is built for the DS and if it would be on any other system it would be the Wii. Regardless 
 this game maxes out the DS's potential to the max with its touch capability and the microphone. 
 When you have a game that lets you operate on a patient with precision and accuracy from the DS's 
 touch screen capability you know you have a great game. 
  
  This game begs to be replayed again and again and again. There is so much replay value to this 
 game it will make you full. There is a total of 3 difficulty settings of each operation as well 
 as the X (Extreme) difficulty missions of GUILT and multiple ranks for you to earn on each operation. 
 The operations are graded by C, B, A, S, and XS, depending on how well you operated and how fast. 
 All of this factors into you playing each operation over and over and over again until you have 
 perfected every single surgical operation in the game. 
  
  Trauma Center: Under the Knife 2 is a force to be reckoned with due to its intense gameplay. This 
 is one of the most refined and amazingly designed game that is sure to have many fans addicted 
 if not quaking in fear as they believe they are not good enough to play the game. With many of 
 the features the game offers with various operations there is a lot of diversity, a lot of replayability, 
 and a lot drama. This is one of those DS games you have to play and you won't regret having played 
 it. 
  
  Overall -------------- 9.0
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: hemadre
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 11, 2009 2:10 pm PT
Review:  With the DS's birth came a slew of gimicky games, very similar to the predicament the Wii is in 
 now. While some games that used the stylus controls crashed and burned, some games could've easily 
 been done on the GBA (i. e. Phoenix Wright) . There really weren't that many games that could not 
 exist on any other system than the DS, and was still effectively a good game. However, this trend 
 was broken with Trauma Center: Under the Knife, a game that truly could've only be done with the 
 DS. Of course, Nintendo ported the game to the Wii and made a Wii-exclusive sequel, but the DS 
 is still Trauma Center's home. Finally, after many years of anticipation, we can hold the scalpel 
 in our hands once more and take part in one of the most clever puzzle games of the modern age.
 
  
  Story: To be honest, the Trauma Center games don't have that believable of a story. I mean, there 
 are killer viruses that slice open spleens, dig into stomachs, and lay webs in the heart. It's 
 kinda silly. But if you can play along and believe this all for a second, then you can see the 
 fantatic story's true worth. UtK focused a lot on GUILT, the monstrous disease that took the world 
 by storm. In UtK2, the diseases are still a huge element, but the story focuses more on the physical 
 and emotional stress placed upon the doctors, the patients, and the rest of the world. GUILT returns 
 (somewhat) in the form of Post Guilt Syndrome (PGS for short) , which acts upon those who had GUILT 
 from the past. Due to this disease, many familiar faces return, such as Linda Reid, the emo girl 
 in UtK who was finally given a reason to live by Dr. Stiles, only to fall victim to GUILT. There 
 is one scene in UtK in which you are forced to watch a patient die; I won't spoil it, but there 
 is nothing worse in a game about saving lives than having to watch someone you've grown attached 
 to die before your eyes. Also, there's a Spider-Man 2-esque subplot, in which Dr. Stiles temporarily 
 loses his power because of his loss of confidence, but eventually regains them to fight medical 
 terrorism once more. Despite PGS, GUILT, and Neo-GUILT (oops, spoiled too much already) , UtK proves 
 its worth with an engaging and believable story, with old characters and new fleshing out all the 
 sides of their personality and making them true players in this farce we call life.
  
  Control: As I may have mentioned earlier, this game is stylus-based. Hell, the main character's 
 name is Derek Stiles. Not a very subtle pun, but I digress. Unlike the Wii versions, which will 
 usually find you fumbling through the analog stick, desperately looking for the proper tool (unless 
 you've memorized the tool locations, like me, in which case after returning to the DS, you may 
 wonder why twicking your thumb doesn't bring out the antibiotic gel) , each tool is accessed by 
 tapping one of the icons on the screen. Every one of these tools is unique and necessary in its 
 own way. The laser burns through polyps and inflammation; the scalpel carves through skin and tears 
 out tumors; the syringe injects stabilizers and other important liquids, such as nanomachines designed 
 to destroy viruses. Never once will you say "gah, why the hell is this even here, anyway", but 
 more importantly, it all feels comfortable. Although you may occasionally throw your DS against 
 the wall (as I was tempted to do many times) due to its nightmarish difficulty (luckily, this time 
 around there are multiple difficulty settings, for the challenge squeamish) , you'll always know 
 what you did wrong, and it'll always be your fault, not the game's fault. Except that fact of life, 
 and move on.
  
  Graphics: I guess you shouldn't expect that much from a DS game; the graphics aren't stellar, but 
 they aren't bad, either. Personally, I'm happy with the level of realness here; any more realistic, 
 and it would be way too bloody gory. An interesting note is that this game does not continue the 
 art style seen in the original Under the Knife, but rather borrows that of the Wii games. As good 
 as it is to see Derek not have his hand on his hips every two seconds, it may turn off people who 
 only played the first DS rendition, as while some characters are barely altered, some are entirely 
 changed (see Angie) . An interesting note is that the games have all used Second Opinion's art style, 
 and Second Opinion added to the story of Under the Knife, practically making it obsolete in the 
 franchise. But bah. I still love it.
  
  Audio: I'll be brutally honest... among all of the games I've reviewed as of yet (except Phantom 
 Hourglass...*shiver*...) , this game probably has the least impressive musical score. And that's 
 disappointing, since I really liked the soundtrack of Under the Knife. Sure, there are a few catchy 
 songs, but not to the degree of the aforementioned prequel. I do love the song that plays when 
 you battle the final strain of Spo-ILERS, though. Another disappointment is that, after having 
 heard complete voice acting in New Blood, we return to minimal sound bites. And I know it's a DS 
 game, but come on. TWEWY had more voiceovers than this. Well... if there's anything good to be said 
 about the voices, is that they all sound good, and they match well with their characters. Gotta 
 love the noises for each of the tools, though; they sound exactly like rolling tape, defibrillators, 
 or lasers would. Except the scalpel's lightsaber noises. Maybe an in-joke to the Family Guy skit 
 in which Luke performs eye surgery with a lightsaber? I dunno...
  
  Length: Depends how much you wanna milk this game. If you play it on easy, you'll probably be done 
 in 10 hours, max. If you challenge yourself, though, you'll squeeze in a few hours. Plus, there's 
 the challenges at the end of the game (which are surprisingly easier than those found in Under 
 the Knife, but still hellishly hard) . I'd guess you'll spend a good 15 hours on that game; that 
 doesn't mean you'll be itching to come back for more, though.
  
  Replay Value: This game has quite some replay value, what with its multiple difficulties and its 
 insane addictiveness. Chances are, you might find yourself under the covers attempting to get an 
 S rank on that mission till the sun rises. It's a lot of fun, and unlike Wii games, in which you 
 have to go through the hassle of pulling out the controllers and turning on the Wii and turning 
 on the TV and selecting the game and waiting for it to load and then finally start playing, this 
 is the kind of game that you can just pop out when you're bored and attempt to do something that 
 you didn't do before.
  
  Multiplayer: N/A (which is also kinda disappointing, after New Blood's two-player slash-off)
 
  
  Boss Fights: Hmm... it's really hard to critique something like this. I mean, the puzzles range 
 from fighting diseases to mending broken bones, removing bullets and shards of glass, and surgically 
 dismantling a security system. I guess you could either classify bosses as a) any of the PGS/GUILT/Neo-Guilt 
 surgeries (though there's so many, it's hard to do so) , or as the missions at the end of each chapter, 
 which are usually climactic and sum up the whole chapter (set of episodes/missions) . Either way, 
 the surgeries that are supposed to be epic are, and they are exceptionally hard, often times forcing 
 many (myself included) to revert to an easier difficulty, lest your DS run the risk of meeting 
 the flat side of your house head-on.
  
  Final Boss: Now THIS isn't hard to qualify. It's plain and simple; I won't explain the details, 
 but there is one finally disease that you have to eradicate in a very certain patient, and unlike 
 the other final surgeries of Trauma Center, this one has much heavier repercussions. As in, if 
 you don't heal her, a million tanks of GUILT will erupt, spreading through a laboratory and killing 
 hundreds of soldiers (and you; did I forget to mention?) . The music is pumping, the dialogue is 
 heavy, all of the different strains of you-know-who gather together in a single body to stop you, 
 and to describe it all in one word: awesomeness. That's right. Got past the spell check.
  
  Extras: Other than extra difficulties and missions, I guess there ain't nuthin else.
  
  Final 
 Statement: A lot of people complain that the DS doesn't have enough games that fully utilize its 
 potential. Well, here's one right here. Trauma Center: Under the Knife 2 is the best thing to happen 
 to the DS since The World Ends With You. Sure, it's not as good... but then again, hardly anything 
 for the DS is or ever will be. But this isn't about TWEWY; my point is, this is what a DS game 
 is made of. A perfect combination of utilization of both screens, a touch-based control scheme 
 that could only be performed on the DS, and a rich anime-inspired art style sell this as one of 
 the best games on the DS out there. I highly suggest DS owners, especially those who are fans of 
 puzzlers, get this great game. I give it 9 scalpels out of 10. Now if you'll excuse me, I have 
 to get ready for the Great Orgy of 9/29. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: knighthero52
Rating: 10
Date: Jul 7, 2008 6:49 pm PT
Review:  This is an awsome game. It has great graphics and puzzles. It is fun and you can learn alot about 
 medicine etc. It has Mild Violence and better charecter graphics than the first one. Angie also 
 gives you better advice and she wears better clothes. It also has better music. This is great game 
 and I think it is a good game to buy it also has 3 difficulty modes hard, Normal and easy it also 
 has a new doctor from africa. I like this game alot
  There also is no bad language and the chapters have at least 3 missions each. Although there is 
 alot of talking in the operations and it is easy to harm the patient badly and have to restart 
 the Mission it Rocks. Also the time goes by very quickly and the vitals are low the sound gets 
 loud and annoying this is a great awsome extrdinary wonderful marvellous great good awsome game!
 
  
  Thank you for reading my review this is Knighthero52. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cayne_phoenix
Rating: 9
Date: Jul 3, 2008 2:16 pm PT
Review:  "Let's Start the Operation" is a phrase we all heard so many times, and it caused us to tense up 
 everything from our muscles to bones. Keeping us at the ready to jump in the operation and find 
 the cause of the sickness and remove it with an array of super-cool instruments most of us won't 
 get to use in real-life.
  The last time you held a scalpel was when the insidious GUILT was let loose to bring humanity to 
 extinction, but thanks to your one special ability and even a bigger thanks to the people to help 
 you realize the reason you became a doctor in the first place, you attacked GUILT head-on and erased 
 every single strand of them from the world. 3 years later, GUILT has appeared again in the form 
 of some nasty after-effects, but that's only a prologue to the real horrors ahead.
  The graphics have received a MAJOR overhaul on the DS, although those who have played Trauma Center: 
 Second Opinion on the Wii would feel at home here. It feels like ATLUS could have done this the 
 first time around with Trauma Center: Under the Knife but decided to experiment with the players 
 to see if they preferred a cartoon-looking Derek Stiles or a more realistic Derek Stiles; that's 
 for your to decide.
  The music, as always, grips at your chest and won't let go until the operation is over; it is so 
 engaging and fits perfectly with the atmosphere of the operation - from a simple bones extraction 
 to a more severe skin-graft. Like this game's predecessor, the characters have been given a voice 
 and only a couple of words to speak to catch your attention throughout the game, like to give you 
 pointers on how to proceed or if a mistake is made.
  The controls are the same as the predecessor (i. e. Stylus) , but it seems to be much more refined 
 now, it seems to be much more smoother and more open than before (like using forceps to close a 
 large cut, you had to grab a specific point otherwise you cannot proceed) .
  You also get to play with a new tool, like the defibrillator, 'nuff said there. If you need to 
 know what that is, proverbially "Google" it. But the Wii players can relax because they would not 
 have to move their hands back and forth to find the right position to use it, since the controls 
 here is much more simple.
  If you found the predecessor to be too hard or too easy, you have the option kick the difficulty 
 up or down a notch to suit your skills; that's a nice addition to the game.
  I would recommend that, if you want to test your focus, concentration, speed and accuracy, you 
 should have this game in your collection. A rating system keeps track of your operations and you 
 can always bring up your score from C to a B to a A and even to a S, giving you a chance to come 
 back over and over again to up your score. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Will47
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jul 2, 2008 5:47 pm PT
Review:  Those of you who saw my review for Trauma Center Under the Knife will see this is set up the same 
 way. 
  
  Story: 9.5 The story still follows Doc Derek Stiles and Angie Thompson as they fight the lasting 
 effects GUILT has on the who where inflicted with it. As they fight PGS ( Post Guilt Sydrom) will 
 Derek get to proud of his Healing Touch and when it fails will give up intirely? The story of this 
 game is so deep and the chariters feel so real you will find your self beliving you are there!
 
  
  Graphics 8/10: Even thoe I rate the graphics in this game the same as the other they are better 
 but the art style is not. You will be drawn in be the amazing look this game has to offer. There 
 is not anyway to discibe it if you want a feel for it look at the pics Gamespot has. The art is 
 what brings the score down, it is not nearly as good as before and at the beggining some time leave 
 you in question if you are looking at the same people. Don't get me wrong there is nothing wrong 
 with it but the should not have changed it this much from the other game so it gives it a different 
 feel (just a bit to different.
  
  Controls 10/10: Wonderful controls and I don't see how they could do better. You have about 10 
 surgery tools at your use and they are all very well made. They are just about the same as the 
 last game but you there are many new ways you get to use them it realy just get more fun as you 
 go.
  
  Gameplay 10/10: Same thing as the Controls section. They also added difficultys that can be changed 
 anytime so if you are going along and something is a little to hard or easy just change it! You 
 have seperate rateings on the missions for the different difficultes to.
  
  Other Notes: The makers of Trauma Center have realy out done them selves this time, I thought the 
 first game was great (and it is still one of the best game ever made for the DS) but the one is 
 so much better. The programers took everything up a notch (exepet for charecters art which went 
 down one) . The missions are 5 min each so you can do them anywhere any time. So as I said before 
 "If you even "kinda" liked the last one then this one will blow you away!!!!!".
  
  P. S I say I spent 10-20 hours that not quite true yet but will be sone, I just got he game yesterday 
 (the day it came out) !
  
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
