-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Trioncube
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/ds/puzzle/trioncube/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 Charming story mode is good for a few chuckles.
 Chickens.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 Absurdly easy gameplay gets old fast.
 Background visuals are underwhelming, considering how long it takes to unlock them.
 Limited number of modes makes the package feel incomplete.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Mar  2, 2007
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 5.3
Critic Score: 5.7, 27 Review (s)
User Score: 6.9, 34 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Namco Bandai Games America
Developer: Bandai Namco Games
Genre: Puzzle
Date: Feb 20, 2007
ESRB: Everyone

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
A cute story mode isn't enough to compensate for Trioncube's unoriginal and incredibly easy take 
 on the Tetris formula. 

  Its name makes it sound like a second-rate space opera, and indeed, Namco Bandai's newest puzzler 
 does have an amusingly cheesy space theme that would be at home in a Sci-Fi channel B-movie. But 
 while a bad popcorn flick can still be a satisfying romp, Trioncube is a derivative puzzle game 
 that is too easy to keep you occupied for long.  

          Now that Pluto is no longer a planet, it has reestablished its monarchy. And this kook 
 is its king.     

  If you've played Tetris, you know how to play Trioncube. Blocks of five different shapes fall from 
 the top of the screen, and you must fit them together at the bottom. The twist here is that you 
 use the blocks to create three-by-three cubes to begin a chain. Once a chain is started, you add 
 new blocks to extend the size of the cube. When you can't add any more blocks, the chain explodes, 
 unchained blocks fall to the bottom, and it starts all over again. There's nothing wrong with looking 
 to a classic for inspiration, but while it gets the basic gameplay right, it misses most of what 
 makes Tetris so great: increasingly nail-biting difficulty. No matter how long you play, Trioncube 
 is never a challenge, so you could easily blow through the 40-odd levels of the story mode in an 
 hour or so without losing a single time -- and most of the 99-level endless mode with nary a drop 
 of sweat.  

  Unlocking new backgrounds and visual effects is all the rage in puzzle games nowadays, and to its 
 credit, Trioncube puts its own spin on the trend by having you unlock skins and special effects 
 separately and then combining them as you see fit. For example, you can combine a pretty Japanese 
 landscape with blocks that produce a clucking peep of chickens when they explode, making for an 
 occasionally appealing and surreal experience. Yet it's as if the developers knew that the core 
 gameplay wasn't going to keep you interested for long, so while you unlock block effects rather 
 quickly, it takes what seems like forever to open up new backgrounds. It's nice to look forward 
 to new visuals, but eventually the game just gets in its own way, since muddling through the simple 
 levels doesn't make the payoff feel very rewarding.  

  Of the four main modes in Trioncube, the story mode is the most interesting. This isn't really 
 for its premise, mind you, which features a prepubescent, blond-coiffed pilot flying across the 
 galaxy to rescue a kidnapped princess. It's all about the presentation. The spaceship is an engorged 
 mechanical bluebird, beak and all. The pilot's hair resembles a yellow cinnamon bun with an extra 
 dollop of icing. And then there's King Pluto, a character that pops up between rounds to announce 
 such tidbits as "My soda's gone flat," and "Curry is too spicy for me," to the ecstatic applause 
 of his countrymen. It's all pretty wacky, and while it isn't as comical as it thinks it is, the 
 mode is cute while it lasts.  

  Once you've tired of the story mode, you can check out the arcade mode, which takes a cue from 
 Meteos and sends you through a small chain of planets until you meet a boss character. Endless 
 mode isn't quite endless, but it is a sequence of 99 levels that  feels  endless and will have 
 you glancing at your watch around level 15, hoping it'll be over soon. You can also play against 
 the CPU or another player in versus mode. Here, successfully completing large chains will flood 
 your opponent with unusable gray blocks that hinder the other side's ability to create chains. 
 Perhaps there aren't many more ways to spread out the thin gameplay, but the selection of modes 
 is scant in light of more recent puzzle titles, like last year's Gunpey and its music sequencer 
 and G-Note Gallery or Lumines and its puzzle mode.  

          It takes approximately 1 zillion hours to unlock the Xevious skin. And it's so not worth 
 it.     

  There's nothing special about Trioncube's presentation, although it features some colorful artwork, 
 and the story mode's cutscenes are nicely done. Yet it doesn't do enough to take advantage of the 
 unlockable skins and effects, which don't have nearly as much charm as the game's colorful characters. 
 The same is true of the soundtrack and sound effects, which are serviceable but uneven. The in-game 
 music is ultimately forgettable -- though you can't beat the dulcet sounds of cackling chickens when 
 creating chains.  

  It's worth noting that Trioncube doesn't use the Nintendo DS's touch screen, which makes it seem 
 even less original than it already is. At the end of the day, the amiable story mode is the only 
 reason to consider checking it out, since the game itself is far too easy and unremarkable to retain 
 your interest. If you are more interested in quality puzzling, there are other games on the market 
 that can back up their charm with equally compelling gameplay.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (3 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: adeehr01eb
Rating: 7.5
Date: Dec 8, 2007 9:05 am PT
Review:  This is a tetris looking game, but isn't at all. As pieces drop you form cubes in order to create 
 larger and larger cubes to fuel your space craft. I was addicted to it for a couple days straight 
 and got a lot of enjoyment out of it. When it's at $20 go buy it, it's worth it for the price. 
 Any higher and you'll get frustrated with what you paid for it. It's a typical puzzle game with 
 little depth in the story... then again the ending is quiet odd after you save the princess... guess 
 you'll have to play it to find that out. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SadPSPAddict
Rating: 7.4
Date: Apr 12, 2007 2:04 pm PT
Review:  Yeah, ok so everyone says it's a bit on the easy side. On the other hand not everyone who plays 
 games is a gaming addict and as such might well see this as a bit more of a challenge. There is 
 plenty of unlockable content and that alone is enough to keep playing for a while.
  Story mode offers a little bit of variety on the challenge in hand and getting golds on all levels 
 is NOT that easy. I even failed to get a medal at all on some stages first time around.
  Arcade mode was a bit too easy, went through that first go but endless mode keeps you on your toes 
 as the levels progress
  All in all if you like tough puzzles get tetris or buy a psp and play Mercury but this is a cute 
 charming addition to the casual gamers collection. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: webxeo
Rating: 7.5
Date: Mar 4, 2007 3:41 pm PT
Review:  I'm not going to be very thourough with this review but, i decided id make a quick one since there 
 hasnt been a user described review yet (thought maybe someone would like an honest opinion in a 
 review)
  
  Anywho, Trioncube is one of those games that is kinda cute and quirky to start out and it catches 
 your attention after a while. In the end however it can be either very tedious and boring to someone, 
 or a fairly entertaining adventure that can last quite a while (personally i found myself playing 
 for a few hours at a time)
  
  As you probably already know its not exactly your normal tetris, lumines type puzzler. You use 
 3x3 cube chains created by the 5 different shapes given to you in the game to fuel your spaceship 
 to the end of the goal. Once a cube chain is started, you must keep using the peices to set up 
 more and more 3x3 cube chains one after the other. If you do not continue the chain when a peice 
 is layed down, everything used in the chains so far turns into coins (bronze silver gold or diamond, 
 based on how large the chains were) . these coins can be used to buy the games many unlockables 
 including 10 different backround layouts for the game and 50 different sounds to be made during 
 your chains. After you unlock and purchase these different sounds and layouts , they can be used 
 whenever you play by choosing your preferences before you begin each level.
  
  The way you unlock (not purchase) these items is by clearing distance in your spaceship in each 
 puzzle.
  
  You can do this by playing any of the games modes (Arcade (a short 8 lvl game where you must save 
 the princess ,Story Mode ( i believe around 45 different missions where you follow the story line 
 of the game, and of course ENDLESS MODE, which you play until you lose, but trust me... its very 
 tough getting to lvl 99 :-/ but very rewarding cash wise)
  
  getting straight to the point though without giving too much away Its just one of those games that 
 will either dissapoint or just feel pleasant...
  
  Im personally glad it came out, its a different spin on the puzzle generation easy as it may be... 
 but its still charming and an engaging experience to be had on the nintendo ds F3ar my awsome grammar..... 
 END 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
