-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: True Swing Golf
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/ds/sports/touchgolf/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 Healthy number of courses.
 Good use of game-sharing.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 Bland presentation.
 Meager feature set.
 Touch-screen controls devoid of subtlety.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Jan 20, 2006
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 6
Critic Score: 7.2, 35 Review (s)
User Score: 7.4, 179 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Nintendo
Developer: T&E Soft
Genre: Golf
Date: Jan 23, 2006
ESRB: Everyone

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Even if the touch-screen controls hadn't stripped away much of the subtlety of the sport, True Swing 
 Golf would still be a lean and flavorless game of golf. 

  Considering Nintendo's knack for imbuing virtually any activity it sees fit with a wealth of charm 
 and personality, and developer T&amp; E Soft's prior success with golf in its densely packed Swing 
 Away Golf for the PlayStation 2, it's kind of surprising just how bland and bereft of features 
 True Swing Golf for the Nintendo DS is. The game's employment of touch-screen controls for aiming 
 and swinging had the potential to at least make for a novel experience, but clumsy implementation 
 makes them a liability rather than a blessing.  

          True Swing does the bare minimum to be called a modern golf game.     

  Before you 
 hit the links, though, you'll have to choose your in-game avatar. Since True Swing doesn't feature 
 the likenesses of any real-life golf pros, nor does it have any real character creation system 
 to speak of, you get to choose from eight different boilerplate character models, and either a 
 "cool" or "wild" attitude for your character, which will dictate how your character reacts to the 
 action out on the course. From here, you're dumped into the game's main menu, where you can choose 
 from a rather meager set of gameplay modes.  

  True Swing doesn't bother with novel rule sets, training minigames, or an extensive career mode, 
 opting instead to keep your options pared down to just match and stroke games. You can play on 
 a random course in the quickplay option, or you can go into the specific match and stroke menu 
 options to specify the course. You can also specify the length of the game, tee placement, and 
 whether you'll play on the original course or a mirrored version, and in the match play mode, you 
 can set the prowess of the CPU. Both modes are competent, but other than for the love of the game, 
 True Swing gives you no compelling reason to play through the straight match or stroke modes -- no 
 cash prizes, no stat increases, no new courses, nothing.  

  If you want to improve the abilities of your avatar, you'll have to go into the championship mode, 
 which puts you into a standard series of increasingly challenging courses against increasingly 
 competent competitors. On a gameplay level, it's not much more compelling or inventive than the 
 stroke or match games, but winning in the championship mode will open up additional courses and 
 net you cash that you can take to the game's pro shop. Here, you can dress up your golfer with 
 new tops and bottoms or buy performance-enhancing clubs, balls, gloves, or shoes. The quantity 
 of gear available in the shop is quite limited, and all of it has a bad, low-fashion look to it. 

  If going to the country club by your lonesome lacks appeal, True Swing features the same match 
 and stroke games in a multiplayer format. Up to four players -- off a single copy of the game or 
 with individual copies -- can play at a time, though the course options are much more limited in 
 the single-cart game. Like the single-player components in True Swing, the multiplayer components 
 work well enough -- they're just completely predictable.  

  True Swing's implementation of touch-screen controls doesn't help make the game any more fun, either. 
 While the top screen gives you a polygonal first-person view of the course, the bottom screen gives 
 you a flat 2D perspective, and you use the stylus on the bottom screen to choose your clubs, line 
 up your shots, adjust your spin, and swing at the ball. Swinging the club is done by simply drawing 
 a line toward the ball, and  how  you draw the line determines the quality of your shot. The length 
 of the line determines how far back your golfer pulls his or her club, the speed at which you draw 
 the line determines the speed of your golfer's swing, and you can also draw or fade your shots 
 by aiming for the sides of the ball.  

  It's a fine system in theory, but there's virtually no nuance to the touch-screen controls. Once 
 you line up your shots with the aiming reticle, a marker appears on the lower screen, taking all 
 of the guesswork out of figuring out how much power to put behind your shots. With its highly specific 
 speedometer, it initially seems like the game is taking great care to determine the speed of your 
 swing, but after a few games, you'll realize that regardless of how much you try to vary the speed 
 of your shot, it will almost inevitably end up traveling at roughly 70, 90, or 110 miles per hour. 
 There's also no way to choose any type of shot other than a full swing, which means that the shape 
 of your shot is always determined by which club you're using.  

  The same basic concept of drawing a line to swing the club applies to the putting mechanic in True 
 Swing, though it takes away the speed factor and adds a guideline on the upper screen that makes 
 the entire short game achingly easy. All you have to do is line up the shot, check against the 
 guideline on the upper screen, and repeat until the guideline is lying on top of the cup. The game 
 also employs a grid of arrows to give you a sense of the green, but with the guideline in place, 
 it's pretty superfluous.  

          Hopefully this doesn't preclude the arrival of Mario Golf on the DS.     

  The game's 
 rather generic presentation doesn't do much to distract you from the meager gameplay options or 
 the poorly realized swing mechanics, either. The polygonal view that you're given on the top screen 
 gives you a pretty nice view of the game's rather nondescript courses. Your golfer will appear 
 on the top screen when you're actually swinging, and the swing animation itself looks pretty nice, 
 but you'll probably be too focused on performing your actual swing to notice. The character models 
 themselves look particularly square, making it all the more unfortunate that the game seems to 
 present a lot of up-close shots of the golfers at the end of a hole. The sound design in True Swing 
 is just as unremarkable, layering appropriately laid-back elevator music with swing and golf clap 
 sounds.  

  For a game from a publisher and a developer that have both done some interesting and accomplished 
 things with the game of golf, True Swing comes out surprisingly flat. Last year's Tiger Woods PGA 
 Tour for the DS was admittedly a flawed product, but there's still no one good reason to pick up 
 True Swing Golf instead of, or even in addition to, Tiger.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (23 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: geo888
Rating: 7
Date: Apr 1, 2008 7:43 pm PT
Review:  True Swing Golf is a game that is good. Nothing more and nothing less (hence the 7.0) . If you want 
 a good golf game then this is the game for you, but if you want a great golf game then look somewhere 
 else.
  
  The graphics of True Swing Golf are mediocre at best. I guess for the DS they are pretty good, 
 but they're uninteresting and wont blow you away. The sound consists of jazzy tunes and is supported 
 with the clapping of spectators or the bounce of a golf ball on the grass. The one place where 
 this game innovates is in the way you swing. On the touch screen the game displays a golf club 
 with various measurements. You touch the club and swing it forward on the touch screen with the 
 stylus. Depending on how you hit it you can slice the ball, and the distance the ball travels depends 
 on how fast you slide your stylus forward. 
  
  True Swing Golf isn't for everyone. I found that I became bored after a little while. It has a 
 mode where you can move up in the ranks and buy better equipment. This changes the game play a 
 little and adds a twist to it. 
  
  If I were to recommend this game to a person I would recommend it to someone who is patient and 
 likes the game of golf. Thats why it isn't amazing but can certainly be appreciated. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mumblesh
Rating: 5
Date: Mar 8, 2008 9:54 am PT
Review:  This game has almost everything you'd want from a golf game, a good selection of courses, upgrades 
 and all the displays and info you need to make a good shot. Great. It's true the game is a bit 
 bland, doesn't offer much more than the game of golf, no fancy mini-games or challenges to keep 
 you amused here. But for golf fans, this may be enough. 
  But there is a big problem with this game, and that's the control system. You never seem to have 
 much subtle refinement over the placement of a shot. The onscreen display tells you everything, 
 how much power to use, and on putts, where to place your marker to make the shot. So there is no 
 real challenge there. When u make your shot, its nothing more than drawing a straight line, you 
 can't really go wrong. A few adjustments for wind and lie etc and smack... Simple, almost every 
 time you can hit it well. Putting isn't a challenge as I've said (it's unbelievable when you realise 
 how easy, it feels like cheating) , so all in all unless you're a golf novice, this won't test you 
 much at all. I was very disappointed. 
  It reminds me of Virtua Tennis, sport for idiots (i. e. you can never knock the ball beyond the 
 sideline or backline) . This forces the so called 'enjoyment'. But surely with sooo much room for 
 error, the game becomes a chore, and repetitive. Where's the level of skill needed? Yawn. One for 
 4 year olds or your granddad. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: so_hai
Rating: 7
Date: Mar 2, 2008 1:53 am PT
Review:  The Wii, and to a lesser extent the DS, as of this date, are yet to be graced by Golf title that 
 truly makes expert use of the motion-control and touch-control respectively. "True Swing Golf", 
 or "Touch Golf - Birdie Challenge" on Pal regions, is the most accurate attempt at swing-control 
 made for a title on the hand-held system. The control scheme is this games real selling-point, 
 and nine times out-of-ten, it doesn't disappoint. 
  
  The unique controls scheme asks players to take the stylus, perform a back-swing, then let fly 
 with a forward-swing. This is accomplished by dragging a straight-line from the top to the bottom 
 of the touch-screen, and then back again. Your speed and accuracy are derived from your quickness 
 and straightness of your movements. Although it feels odd at first, you'll soon be at-home making 
 great tee-off shots - those special enough are rewarded with an on-screen "Great Shot!".
  
  The overall presentation of this game is very simple, and almost generic. The title screen, with 
 a great shot of some unknown course, is impressive enough, but it's not long before a player will 
 notice that menus/sub-screens in the game are for pure function - decoration is virtually non-existent. 
 Apart from the actual game play presentation (which I'll get to) , the game looks like a SNES title. 
 However, unlike some newer titles, all navigation is made with the stylus.
  
  As there are no licensed products, courses, or players in this game, there is a hollow feeling 
 to the whole deal. It's strange to play a golf game devoid of logos, products and advertising, 
 but this game has managed to do it - and the difference is quite blatant. To play, you can select 
 between male and female, as well as a vague personality description, and you are ready to begin 
 the exhaustive, repeat, exhaustive tournament modes. 
  
  Graphically this game is fair. Although quite colourful, you do tire of seeing course after course 
 portrayed in the same methods - there are no crowds, and the trees do not vary all that much. That 
 said, the game engine itself is quite simple, but effective, and it never lets you down with bad 
 camera angles or unclear course maps. Again, like the menus, there is a feeling of emptiness about 
 the courses. Together with this, there are occasional uses of ugly textures, as well as some bad 
 clipping within the course geometries.
  
  The fun lies within the games pure focus on hitting that ball. That's what it offers - complete 
 and utter hole after hole after hole of golf. You do find yourself in a rhythm when playing this 
 game, and it is pretty satisfying knocking over each hole quickly. There is always more to explore 
 - this game has many courses (I'm not even sure of the amount) , but it's got to rival or even better 
 Tiger Woods for it's hole-count.
  
  Targeting and aiming in the game is very peculiar at first, but again, after the shortcomings of 
 the game's menus and icons are overcome, you find your own way in which to aim, draw or fade, and 
 spin. Most holes however, are knocked over easily with simple straight-shots, applying the "power 
 boost" with the L-button, if that so happens to be your style.
  
  I found it a shame that the game relies so heavily on the bottom screen - a top-view of the current 
 hole which is scrollable and zoom-able. You make your shot, and sadly, more can be told about where 
 it's heading on the bottom screen than can be be seen on the top-screen in the true 3D representation. 
 You find yourself staring at this bland view of the course, following the white pixel as it makes 
 it's flight up the fairway. This map-view/top-view is useful, but ugly. And it's a bit strange 
 that it represents the ball's progress clearer than the actual game's 3D engine. Oh well. I still 
 can't help but imagine how much this game would of benefited from a two-screen spread of your ball 
 traveling through the course in 3D. Bummer. 
  
  Mini-game and arcade-mode lovers be warned - this game offers nothing but straight, sensible golf. 
 It's good golf, but remember, it's nothing too fancy, and it is a game that relies on touch-screen 
 almost completely. Fun, but not for those without a bit of patience. In that sense then, I guess 
 it is a true golf simulator. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: brood_aliance
Rating: 8
Date: Sep 1, 2007 5:11 pm PT
Review:  Lets start by saying this is isn't for every one. Many people find playing golf games boring after 
 a while. I'm one of those people, but I keep coming back to it once in a while. Why? Because of 
 the great stylus controls. I definitely like this better than the timing systems on consoles, and 
 PSP. This actually takes some skill, instead of timing. Buying new equipment (clubs, balls, clothes, 
 shoes) keeps me coming back to it. Wi-Fi for this game would be pretty awesome. The graphics are 
 okay. The grass isn't bad, but you can see some individual pixels. The trees, on the other hand, 
 should have been a little more refined. The sound is not bad. The rain, and swings sound realistic. 
 The value of this game, isn't bad for $20, but again it could get boring for many people quickly.
 
  
  I really like this game. The highlight would definitely be the controls. Also, the game could have 
 been online (using Nintendo Wi-Fi) . I would recommend this game to ANY golf enthusiasts, and anybody 
 looking for a new, and different game to play for cheap. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: judog1
Rating: 7.2
Date: Jun 21, 2007 2:44 pm PT
Review:  True Swing Golf is basically a watered down version of Golden Tee Golf. Bland presentation and 
 bad in game graphics just doesnt give you the experience of you actually being out on the green 
 and becoming a champion.
  
  The graphics are like a low end DS game, the golf courses arent very detailed, and the characters 
 are very generic. At times when golfing, it gets frustrating when you cant tell where you are 
 hitting the ball, you can get a close up view of the course by touching the bottom screen and moving 
 the stylus around but it doesnt help much since textures arent greatly shown.
  
  Generic characters are another problem it seems like your characters always does the same actions 
 over and over again when you do something good or wrong. The characters dont show a lot of excitement 
 either, even if you have them set to have a crazy attitude. An example of this is when you come 
 first in a tournament, he or she just acts the same as if they got 5th place.
  
  Presentation isnt the best either, instead of showing a quick cut scene of what was going to happen, 
 you get scrolling text on the screen that usually is the same even if you are on a different rank, 
 an example would be Pro Class Regular Tour: ~championship~ a Championship for both genders to 
 determine the best golfer around. Reach for the top while collecting tour prize money
  
  Well, enough with the graphics, they arent the reason to buy the game, the controls are. You control 
 the where and how hard the golfer swings the way you do in Golden Tee Golf. At the bottom screen 
 you can control where you are going to hit the ball, you can move that little checker around to 
 hit it just right and when you are ready to swing you just press a button and the touch screen 
 changes to a top view of grass, a golf club, and the golf ball. To swing you touch the screen go 
 back and go forward like in Golden Tee Golf.
  
  The only problem with the swinging controls is that no matter how soft you hit the ball it always 
 seems to go between 60-100 miles per hour.
  
  One major problem I had with the controls is putting, not necessarily shooting the ball at the 
 right speed, but aiming the ball so that it gets into the whole. Most of the time the game automatically 
 aims the ball so that it goes in but in some greens, it has too much of a curve on it, making you 
 always miss it. You can move where the ball is going to be aimed at but even the slightest movement 
 makes the biggest change on the green, so you have to use the left and right buttons on the d-pad 
 to get it just right, unfortunately your character moves slowly and taking this a little slower 
 than you may like.
  
  Multiplayer is fun, its one of those games that you and your dad can enjoy playing against each 
 other. The picto chat feature could have been better though, instead of having it like a regular 
 chat, you can only display one message at a time per person and you can only create four messages 
 before having to delete one, if they could have made this feature better it would help.
  One thing that they could have done is made this game playable with more than one player per DS, 
 not everyone has the money to go out and buy a ds so that the whole family could play.
  
  Overall, if you are looking for a quick little golf game to play on the go or are interested in 
 the Golden Tee Golf styled controls, check out this game, considering it isnt a big lost since 
 you can find this game for under $15 now, but if you are looking for something very detailed like 
 a Tiger Woods game, this would be a bad choice. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DiloD
Rating: 8.6
Date: Jun 18, 2007 11:55 am PT
Review:  i like the style of the game... and if is the first you play golf, its very full details and all 
 the spec you need to know you have it. and you have some suggesting for your stick and the distance 
 with the yard. it is not a difficult game... just need to have the touch with the stylus... you can 
 pratice beofre the real game like a tournement, the best play, the best shot, ect. Its nice cause 
 you can play with your friend wireless... you can play a stroke play, match play, championship, 
 free round and later a play off... when you play solo or with a friend you can have the slope of 
 the green ... veryyyyyyy pratic 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sirius_metlhed
Rating: 8.9
Date: Mar 8, 2007 7:06 am PT
Review:  Gorgeous golf courses, good weather simulations, and great use of the touch screen make True Swing 
 Golf a good, challenging golf sim with unbelievable replay value. Players have a variety of custom 
 options for each swing, and the swing itself is completely up to you - no power meters or goofy 
 swing systems here. Club direction and clubhead speed is all determined by moving the stylus. It's 
 very satisfying to hear the impact and to see the shot sail over the fairway. My only confusion 
 is when it comes to outfitting your golfer. I understand saving up money for new golf equipment 
 that will improve your game, increase your arsenal of special shots etc. - that's pretty standard. 
 But why am I supposed to spend hundreds of dollars on buying my golfer new shirts and pants? I 
 bought a golf game, not a game of dress up. When I have to decide between new clubs or a polo shirt, 
 well, come on now. It's a silly feature.
  
  Five months after purchasing True Swing Golf, I'm still playing it! The reviews almost scared me 
 off, but I'm glad I didn't let them. This game won't empty the wallet - new, I've seen it on sale 
 for under $20. On Ebay, expect to pay under $10 including shipping! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: metlhed3
Rating: 8
Date: Jan 22, 2007 9:01 pm PT
Review:  If you like golf games, you'll like this. It's very easy to get the hang of, too. The combination 
 of the touch screen swing and the sound of club on ball impact is very satisfying every time. And 
 to watch the ball travel through the air and onto the grass is almost breathtaking even on such 
 a small screen. You could probably find it used for ten bucks somewhere, and I'm here to tell you 
 that you'll keep going back to TSG after playing out the blockbusters in your collection.
  
  The only negatives I can think of are: You had better be playing TSG on a couch or somewhere 
 that does not move! I was trying to play while in the car (first family trip in a while where I 
 wasn't the chauffeur!) and couldn't execute a decent swing. Also, I don't understand the point 
 of purchasing clothes to dress your golfer in. Seems a waste of money -- this game isn't Tiger 
 Woods PGA Tour -- winning a round pays only three to four figures and can be spent more wisely 
 on golf equipment!
  
  Keep your eyes out for this sleeping giant in your budget titles section! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Game_Master359
Rating: 9.4
Date: Dec 27, 2006 7:09 am PT
Review:  This game is awesome. I just got it yesterday and its already fun as ever. The graphics are good, 
 but they could use a little tweaking. It snows and pours down rain which will show it up close 
 and you can actually see individual rain drops and snow flakes. The game play was awesome. You 
 start at the line it gives you and pull the stylus upward and you can get a great shots, nice shots, 
 and bad shots. It depends on how fast you hit it and what angle you hit the ball at. The sound 
 always goes with each golf course about were its at. The match mode was fun trying to beat a boy/girl 
 for the heck of it. Championship is the funnest mode though. There are different tournaments. First 
 you have beginner, then pro, then master. I'm only on pro though. You win money by getting good 
 places in the rounds of the tourn. You go to the Golf Shop and buy you clothes, golf gear, and 
 other stuff. Overall this is a pretty good golf game for the Nintendo Ds. (I hope there is going 
 to be a second one.) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GeekyDad
Rating: 8.3
Date: Dec 17, 2006 11:19 am PT
Review:  Yes, my screen name's GeekyDad. However, I never played a real round of golf in my life. I did 
 tinker with a golf game on the Sega Genesis a good while back, but can't really say that I knew 
 what I was doing all that well. In any case, I was shopping in Blockbuster recently and I saw this 
 title for $10 new. I had read a couple of reviews for it, and it seemed to do rather well by a 
 couple of critics. To make a short story shorter, I went for it...
  
  I had a feeling, before I brought the game home, that it was going to be one of those games -- 
 unlike a Mario-golf title -- that actually required the player to have some understanding of how 
 the actual game of golf is played. I had none. Well, I knew that you had to hit the ball toward 
 the hole, and I'd always assumed that the less strokes the better. But I didn't know any of the 
 rules really, or understand which clubs were best for certain swings, etc. So, off to Wikipedia 
 I went!
  
  After a self-taught, crash course via the info offered on Wiki regarding golf, I felt that I had 
 enough to get going with True Swing Golf (TSG) . I followed my Wiki reading up by thoroughly reading 
 over the instruction manual included with the game, and then gave TSG a whirl. I was pleasantly 
 surprised at how easy it was to get right into the gameplay.
  
  Now for the purposes of this review, I'm going to speak in the jargon (that I know thus far) of 
 golf. I'm afraid that it would take much too long to stop and explain (or define) each term. If 
 you don't understand part of what I'm referring to, please feel free to reply asking for clarification 
 and I'll do my best to respond. There are several modes of play, and they're all quite fun. The 
 first option you'll notice in the menu screen is the Quick Start option, which allows you to instantly 
 begin playing either Stroke play or Match play. If you've only got a few minutes to kill, it's 
 a great way to pass the time. Next is the Single Player option. This is perhaps the bulk of the 
 game, and there are several sub-options contained therein:
  
  Single Player
  
  Stroke Play: This allows you to basically experience a day on the green by yourself. You can try 
 to get your best stroke score, playing a solo round.
  
  Match Play: This allows you to play a round against a CPU character. Lowest strokes per hole wins 
 the hole, and whomever wins 5 holes out of 9 wins the round. It's a good place to win items (more 
 on items later) .
  
  Championship: This is the area I have the most experience in. I enjoy it the most because it offers 
 the feeling of going on an actual golf tour. You begin as an amateur (which, for me, was also the 
 reality) , and work your way through the ranks. If you're any good you can earn money at the end 
 of the matches, and money is a good thing.
  
  Free Round: This last option basically allows you to practice on various holes, and it's a great 
 way to develop your skills with adjusting the lie, dealing with wind, etc.
  
  Other gaming variables include the Options menu and Wireless Play, which I'll get to in just a 
 bit. However, let me now try to describe some of the golfing basics for this game.
  
  A typical hole begins with the camera showing you a moving bird's-eye view of the hole in play. 
 You can choose to skip the animation by simply touching the touch screen. You're then ready to 
 drive the ball. The first time I looked at the screen I was a little intimidated; there seemed 
 to be so many options onscreen while the ball was in play. But it's really not complicated, and 
 most of what you're seeing are the different variables, such as ball distance from the cup, wind 
 direction and speed, flag direction, etc. The main things you'll want to rely on are the camera 
 views. There are two views that you can take advantage of during your turn: Map Zoom and Target 
 Cam. Both aide you in setting your ball on the best path toward the cup. Additionally, you can 
 change your clubs, of course, as well as adjust the lie of the ball. There's also a ? icon that 
 gives you quick help with certain gameplay options.
  
  Using a target cursor, you aim in which direction you want to hit the ball. Once set, hit the Swing 
 button and it's go time. This is, of course, the moment (though brief) you've been waiting for. 
 It's a DS game after all, and you'll be using the stylus to swing your club. Interestingly, the 
 game doesn't just register the accuracy of drawing a straight line, but also the speed with which 
 you strike the ball. So, if you're wanting to drive the ball any fair distance you cannot simply 
 draw a straight line at any rate you so choose. You'll have to combine accuracy with speed, and 
 it's not that easy. But it definitely makes the game interesting, and would seem to add a wonderful 
 level of realism.
  
  As mentioned previously, you earn money through Championship play. You can then use that cash at 
 the Golf Shop. Like a Sims game, you can buy stuff to mack your character out in nifty duds. However, 
 there's also quite a few useful items that will help to better your game, such as better clubs, 
 gloves and shoes. It's a great way to add depth to an already well-rounded game.
  
  One of the most enjoyable aspects of TSG is the multiplayer. Now, I haven't had the opportunity 
 to experience the multi-card play, but I am definitely intending on picking up a copy for my wife 
 next time I'm up at Blockbuster again. However, we have really had a great time with the single-card 
 offering. Though you cannot choose your character -- the one that you've macked out through Championship 
 play -- and you only get 3 courses to choose from, it's still a whole lot of fun. As a matter of 
 fact, I think my wife enjoys this game more than I do. But there's nothing like playing against 
 actual human opponents -- the competitive element always adds to the excitement.
  
  The look of the game is really quite nice, and developed perfectly for the type of game that it 
 is. Yeah, there's some blockiness to the top-screen textures, but the characters look pretty good 
 and the overall look is very nice. More importantly, everything you need to see or that you'd imagine 
 should be offered in a game like this is there. The sound too is quite nice, and there's a good 
 variety of musical themes that add a bit of excitement to what might otherwise be an overly-somber 
 experience.
  
  I consider this game to be one of those really neat finds that you always hope to come across in 
 the bargain bin. Most games in the pile belong there, but True Swing Golf was a diamond in the 
 rough for me. It's a relaxing game that's very enjoyable, especially after hours of saving some 
 world in a fantasy RPG. There's a definite learning curve if you're not already familiar with the 
 actual game of golf, but otherwise it's a really easy game to pick up and play. It's really well 
 made, well presented and offers a very healthy amount of good times. It's golf though, so don't 
 expect a party; it's more like sipping sherry in front of a fire.
  
  One last thought: The manual is -- like most Nintendo-published manuals are -- in full color and 
 very detailed in its descriptions. In addition, it offers a full glossary of terms in the back 
 of the manual. So, if you're not up on your golfing jargon this can be a real help.
  
  My Score: 8.5 (A welcome addition to any DS collection.)
  
  Any cons? Well, as I said earlier 
 in my review, the textures can be a tad blocky at certain times throughout the game. Also, though 
 the music is really well made and the samples are quite lengthy, they can get old halfway through 
 a round. Other than those two things and the fact that the game's catered toward experienced golfers, 
 it's a really top-notch title.
  
  Thanks for reading, and happy gaming!
  
  -GD 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DG4444
Rating: 7
Date: Dec 11, 2006 5:21 am PT
Review:  If your tired of the same old Tiger Woods Golf or Everybody's Golf or even Outlaw Golf this is 
 pretty Revolutionary. Don't get me wrong, it's far from perfect. The gameplay get a bit repetitive 
 and the sounds are very generic. Graphics could also have been rounded off just a bit. OK so now 
 the bads are out of the way. If you own a DS and you mildly like golf... just get it. Not the best 
 game on the DS but I liked the way they used the touch screen. You have to , with your stylus, move 
 the club backwards on your touch screen and propel it forwards toward the ball. Now this is where 
 it get interesting, you have to build up enough speed on the club or else your ball wont travel 
 as far and you have to connect the ball on the right spot. If you don't your ball will hook or slice. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rnyiii
Rating: 4.2
Date: Oct 8, 2006 6:45 am PT
Review:  The true swing is a great golf game. Good Courses, and graphics, but something isn't there. Maybe 
 if they had real coarse, or if the equipment actually made a difference. The pen swing is alright 
 but at first i would accidently touch the far corner of the screen right at impact and it would 
 as i misssed the ball. I think this game was rushed out, and only the starting point of the next 
 game. They could add a great deal of things to this game I would start with fun, and fun mini games. 
 Maybe just throw in little extras, like more customizable characters, and more than four models. 
 A paint your stuff feature, or gernade bomb balls just to blow off steam when your game goes horrorabliey 
 wrong. I'm mean i lost a tournament because i over short a green and landed in the water, this 
 makes for a great realistic feel. But i just want t have some fun. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sinefinn
Rating: 7
Date: Jul 5, 2006 8:26 am PT
Review:  This is a good game if you just need a short electronic golf fix. Definetly more technical than 
 the other golf games which makes it fresh air compared to some of the other meter golf games games. 
 I still love Hot Shots on my PSP, but in a different comic way.
  
  The graphics are pretty basic, but what can you expect from the DS.
  
  Sound is very good! 
 Well the sound from the golf not nessarily the music though.
  
  The prizes in championship mode are a little lame and the choices for characters is bland, but 
 still it does okay and keeps me occupied.
  
  I hope this game is step in as good direction for better golf games on the DS to come.
  
  I 
 bought this game used and cheap and recommend you do the same. Defintely buy it on sale, which 
 it is in most places.
  
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: follis12
Rating: 8.8
Date: May 23, 2006 1:25 pm PT
Review:  True swing is revolutionary. Of course it is a golf game, and will have a limited appeal, but up 
 against competitive titles, it is truly unique. If you're a fan of the genre, this game will definitely 
 grow on you.
  
  Other golf games follow a standard "three click" or similar swing format, but in this game, you 
 actually have to use a physical skill to play - similar to real golf. Like most DS games, you won't 
 get super high definition graphics, but the game play mechanics more than compensate. 
  
  My favorite aspect of the game is the difficulty. To get the low scores, you'll have to master 
 the swing mechanics. I've played for about 20 hours, and I'm not even close. This also means you 
 can have a great round, and turn around the next day and stink up the course! This is what golf 
 would be like if you could hold it in your hand. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: humantarget00
Rating: 8.8
Date: May 12, 2006 8:43 pm PT
Review:  Thanks to Nintendo's new DS download stations, more people are being exposed this game. Having 
 little interest in it originally I never would have bought it if I hadn't first had the chance 
 to try out the demo version, which I downloaded at a local Target store.
  
  The demo gives you nine holes which you can play over and over again, and chances are you will 
 once you get a taste of the simple and pleasant gameplay this title has to offer.
  
  True Swing is not a deep golf sim. Most of the time all you need to do is to swing your club at 
 the ball by quickly drawing a straight line on the touch screen. When putting on uneven greens 
 you may need to make minor adjustments to line up your shot and very rarely you may have to switch 
 from the preselected club choice- but usually what it sets you up with is adequate. The control 
 scheme is accessible and forgiving which really gives this game a sense of fun that many golf games 
 lack.
  
  There aren't a ton of options with this game. You get four choices in single player mode: 1) match 
 play, in which the winner is determined by the number of holes won. 2) stroke play, in which the 
 game keeps track of your total strokes throughout the course. 3) Free Round, which is more or less 
 a practice mode. and Championship, in which you get the chance to basically play a season, unlocking 
 new courses as you progress as well as earning money which can be spent to buy new clothing to 
 stylize the look of your golfer, as well as new equipment that actually improves his game.
  
  The game features a great single card download play system. This includes both a two player 
 game using more forgiving match play rules or a two to four player contest under the harsher stroke 
 play system. Both are limited to a nine-hole contest, however. The multi-card wireless modes are 
 presumably less limited but since I only have one copy of the game I can't say much else on that 
 front.
  
  Another nice feature the developers wisely included is the ability to send a demo version to another 
 DS so that you can share the game with your friends and as long as they don't turn off their system 
 they can play, practice, and hopefully get hooked enough to buy their own copy.
  
  Technologically the game isn't a titan. The graphics and sound aren't going to be winning many 
 awards, but neither are they going to detract from the fun you'll have while playing this fast-paced 
 and uncomplicated golf game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kdawg24
Rating: 6.1
Date: Apr 12, 2006 3:57 pm PT
Review:  OK here it goes my wonderful review of true swing.
  
  First of all i would like to say that 35.00 is a little to high for this game but i bought it anyways.
 
  
  The graphics are great but there just seems to be something missing , no crowd no wind blowing 
 leaves or debris but all in all it looks great.
  
  Now for sound boy did they slump when it came to this department the music is annoying and sometimes 
 the sound effects or crowd sounds like the ohss and ahsss just seem to play randomly.
  
  The gameplay is very unique it is sort of like playing golf for the computer you use the stylus 
 and the harder you move your hand the further the ball goes. all in all gameplay is great.
  
  Now onto the characters their is no big names here just some made up chumps and the customization 
 is lacking big time.
  
  WHY WASNT THIS GAME WIFI???????????????????????
  
  All in all tiger is still better but this is still worth checking out but wait till the price drops. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sleepwalker182
Rating: 9.3
Date: Mar 11, 2006 9:41 pm PT
Review:  This game by far captures what it is really like to golf and I suggest to anyone looking for a 
 great sports game or just a great party game to pick this up right quick. After playing this and 
 playing that wanna be Tiger Woods golf game I would have to say Tiger just found a new home... as 
 a coaster. .  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Maestri09
Rating: 7.8
Date: Mar 2, 2006 2:36 pm PT
Review:  I got true swing golf today. It's a good game, and I want to make a little synopsis on my impressions 
 of the game for anyone that might be interested (gee, I hope there's at least a few) . This isn't 
 all that comprehensive, more like a "first 50" type thing.
  
  Graphics: pretty rudimentary. There's nothing outstanding in the graphics dept. For sure, nothing 
 like mario kart. it looks like it was a launch title -- which I think it was. I think it came out 
 in japan like 9 months before it came out here. I think Gamespot was a little too harsh on this 
 game because the graphics didn't stand up to current titles. there's no way that it could. Also, 
 you can't see much definition on the contours of the grass, so they compensate by placing arrows 
 all over the place to see how your target area slopes. it works fine, but I'd rather see it in 
 3D, if possible.
  
  Sound/Music: the music gets boring after a while. I prefer just having the natural sound effects 
 with birds chirping anyway. That's how I play tiger woods for the PS2.
  
  Gameplay: Awesome! I love how you can choose your club, zoom in, put spin on the ball, preview 
 the ball's trajectory with the touchscreen. It totally destroys tiger woods, because you're constantly 
 pressing the shoulder buttons and stuff to do all of that, and to switch clubs. The swing is even 
 better! drawing the quick line is way more satisfying than using the analog thumbpad like on the 
 PS2 + that annoying repeated pressing on the shoulder button to make a power shot. And it's way 
 easier to curve the ball, than with tiger woods. What you can't do, though is spin the ball while 
 in mid-air. You can only do that before swinging.
  
  Features: the game lacks in some important features. the big one is that you're stuck with the 
 same player. I probably still don't know how to choose other players but it sucks that you can't 
 change easily. I think you have to delete your profile. Obviously, you also can't design your own 
 player. So I can't design my crippled old man complete with afro, liver spots, and muttonchops. 
 I can't think of anything else that stands out because it pretty much has everything else: weather, 
 game modes, accessories, and multiple courses.
  
  Overall, I give this game a 7.9. It reminds me of Asphalt Urban GT: it's a good game, but you can't 
 wait for the next one because you know with some improvements this game can be exceptional.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: En-GaGe
Rating: 8.8
Date: Feb 28, 2006 4:47 am PT
Review:  This game is a very good golf game but there is something about it that makes it unoriginal. It 
 is rather bland but theres something that also makes me want to keep playing.
  
  GAMEPLAY- It is very fun and the controls with the touch screen are not hard to master at all, 
 you can play with friends with a single cartridge. There are tournements quick competitions and 
 more
  
  GRAPHICS- this game was ambitious on the graphics but it is still a bit lower than i would have 
 expected even the club looks choppy when the character holds it, but over all it was still pretty 
 good.
  
  SOUND- This has some alroght elevator music but it fits well with the game. There is usually abient 
 music around you that is done well also.
  
  VALUE- There are many things to be bought at the clubhouse and winning tournements is the only 
 way to win money so its gots some replay value
  
  TILT- Theres something about the game that keeps making me want to play it!!!
  
  This is a 
 great game, if you like golf i'd highly recomend it! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DidiCardoso
Rating: 8.1
Date: Feb 21, 2006 1:12 am PT
Review:  To me, golf is a very boring sport. But even more boring are all the golf games out there... I 
 mean, what's the point? At least while exercising the real thing you get to take nice walks and 
 enjoy some fresh air.
  
  Reluctantly, I picked up True Swing Golf and gave it a try. My reaction surprised me.
  
  The 
 major difference between True Swing and any other licensed golf franchise (Tiger Woods, anyone?) 
 is the advertising. There are no brands, no billboards, no ads. Not on the player's clothing, not 
 on the equipment, not even on the golf courses. It's just golf and the great outdoors, a very "light" 
 and refreshing change from the usual in-your-face advertising in the golf games we are used to. 
 
  
  True Swing Golf lets you pick one from eight pre-set characters (four male, four female) . You also 
 pick their personality (either cool or wild) which will influence how they react to the result 
 of their swings, but it's also supposed to have an impact on their overall golfing performance. 
 A very cool little detail is the ability to pick if your golfer is right-handed or left-handed.
 
  
  There are several different modes of gameplay: Practice, Quick Round, Match and Tournament. Practice 
 and Quick Round are very casual, while Match and Tournament pose a challenge. In Match, you play 
 against an A. I. golfer, but you can pick your opponent's difficulty level to match yours. In Tournament, 
 you compete for cash prizes. You can then use this money to purchase upgrades in the Golf Store, 
 such as clothing or equipment (gloves, clubs, balls, shoes) with better stats.
  
  True Swing Golf also offers wireless multiplayer gameplay for up to four players from one single 
 game card through the DS Download Play.
  
  The game offers fifteen fictitious 3D rendered golf courses, each with a different design and specific 
 obstacles ranging from sand pits to lakes or lots of trees, not to mention wind conditions.
  
  When beginning a new course, the top screen shows you a 3D aerial view of the entire course 
 from start to finish, while the bottom screen shows you a top-down panoramic. During gameplay, 
 you see your character and his/her respective actions on the top screen, and the swinging and menu 
 access happens on the bottom screen.
  
  Being my first contact with the DS, I really enjoyed the use of the stylus for this game. You actually 
 swing the stylus to hit your ball, and the touch screen does a really great job at recognizing 
 strong and delicate swings, registering the speed at which your ball will go (I did find it easier 
 to swing with the screen tilted sideways, for long drives anyway) . You use the stylus as if it 
 were the club: you touch the club, pull it back and quickly drag it forward (without lifting the 
 stylus from the touch screen) to simulate the swing. Furthermore, you can angle your swing and 
 change where you want to hit the ball to compensate for wind conditions. 
  
  True Swing Golf is an easy to pick up and play game that will appeal to both golf players and golf 
 videogame players. It's very interactive and realistic, and after experiencing it, I really can't 
 see how you can play a golf game in any other way.
  
  Review text part of Grrlgamer. com
  http://www. grrlgamer. com/review. php? g=trueswinggolf 
::::::

::::::
UserName: stefanjacholke
Rating: 6.2
Date: Feb 1, 2006 5:48 am PT
Review:  Golf is the perfect portable sport -- broken into convenient bits, it's ideal for playing a few 
 minutes here and there. PSP owners already have three golfing choices highlighted by Sony's superlative 
 Hot Shots. With the release of True Swing Golf to complement a rather average Tiger Woods outing, 
 the DS finally starts to catch up -- but Nintendo fans can't yet hit the links in total style. 
 
  
  The DS should be a great golf platform. In True Swing the upper screen shows a wide view of the 
 course with a projected shot trajectory, while the touch screen handles the swing and fine tuning 
 of each shot. 
  
  True Swing uses the touch screen both to select a target area of the course and to swing the club. 
 It's a good idea, but executed with a disappointing lack of finesse. While other titles use the 
 d-pad to give players a high degree of control over exactly where their shot will head, here the 
 touch screen feels as if it lacks sensitivity. When on the green, the cursor almost feels as if 
 it's skipping along in six-inch increments. Fine tuning a putt in harsh conditions becomes frustrating. 
 
  
  The same applies to the swing mechanic. An image of the ball appears near the top of the touch 
 screen; players draw a line back to set power, then forward to swing. A simple graphic shows how 
 far back to draw, while a line on the upper screen gives a real-time update as to how far the shot 
 will go. The idea is that the speed and accuracy of the line impacts the shot, but that only works 
 occasionally. Most of the time, you'll end up with a serviceable shot that doesn't deviate much 
 from every other swing. 
  
  In what could be called a lucky stroke, the inaccuracies don't render the game unplayable, but 
 neither is it very satisfying to best courses by following all the on-screen guidelines for swinging 
 the club. 
  
  Little in the presentation will distract anyone from the nuts and bolts of play. While we don't 
 necessarily want the colorful excesses of a Mario or Hot Shots golf game, at the same time True 
 Swing feels almost too sedate. Technical and composed is just fine, but this is almost generic, 
 from the middling courses to the elevator music. 
  
  There's little to the presentation other than a series of player characters, a few control icons, 
 and the realistic but not terribly convincing courses. The approach is much like what EA has successfully 
 used in Tiger Woods, but the DS's lack of resolution and bland music track will make some wish 
 for a different approach. 
  
  The inaccuracy of the swing and shot placement turns into a severe handicap for the game. True 
 Swing Golf is passively entertaining, but won't suck anyone in as quickly or for as long as Hot 
 Shots is able to. 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Yagami-Iori
Rating: 8.2
Date: Jan 27, 2006 10:48 pm PT
Review:  True Swing Golf is the newest golf game to grace the Nintendo DS, in fact, its the only golf game 
 on the DS besides Tiger Woods 2005. But may I just say, that the way T&E Soft has taken the touchscreen 
 and been able to shrink down a golf swing onto a screen is really fun, challenging, and adds a 
 new, more fulfilling dynamic to the game, rather than just pressing buttons at the right time on 
 a little level/radar/etc.
  
  Gameplay- 8- The developers at T&E Soft really did an excellent job at copying golf physics on 
 the touchscreen controls. What you do is pull back or press & hold someplace on the strength of 
 the swing on the ball, then slide the stylus forward quickly to hit the ball. But it isn't as simple 
 as it sounds. Depending on how you move the stylus can change how the clubface hits the ball, making 
 it go left or right, when it isn't desired. Also, hitting the ball indirectly can change where 
 the ball goes. You can even completely miss the ball, which is funny (well... not really, you lose 
 a stroke) .
  
  The wind can also have a BIG effect on the flight of the ball and it is one of the things, including 
 weather & some blissful ineptness by the helping system that does require you to tweak where you 
 aim your shot. Anyone that says that the help makes it too easy hasn't gotten much past the first 
 championship or two. At times, the auto-aim could be aiming your ball relatively close to the pin, 
 yet shoving you in the rough behind trees or close to water hazzards. You then, of course, have 
 to choose the fairway shot & line it yourself. There are many more examples I can think of, but 
 basically, the help system is NOT too strong and you cannot just keep swinging away through the 
 game, never having to line up & really strategize, as some reviews have made it seem.
  
  The system is not without its problems though. One I have noticed is that there are sometimes some 
 HORRID drops after landing in a water hazard. I once barely rolled into one and the game dropped 
 my ball on the OTHER SIDE OF THE LAKE! That added about 20 yards to my shot and with the wind goin 
 at 6+ MPH as it was, it wasn't making the shot easier to get right. Also, the speeds do seem to 
 always register at 70-75, 90-95, and 110-115, which makes no sense as to why a full speed range 
 wasn't programmed in. But both of these issues are reall minor deterences to the overall game. 
 Some may argue the drop one is a big deal but hey, after you land in the water, that hole is pretty 
 much screwed, anyways.
  
  Graphics- 8- The mix of 3D on the top screen & 2D on the bottom really works well for this game. 
 The 3D top is used more as an overview of shots, watching the ball fly in the air, showing animations 
 of your character's reactions, among other things. It isn't the best 3D ever on the DS, but it 
 is better than most. The 2D works well for the mapping and I'm glad they didn't try & shove it 
 into 3D, because I could actually see it having taken away from the game.
  
  Sound- 7- The sound is pretty blah, overall, but it fits the game perfectly. Golf is, sound wise, 
 very empty. There are plenty of well-representing sound effects for the many noises of a golf game 
 and for that deserves a good score.
  
  Value- 8- This game is nicely done overall and willbe one of those games that, while cleared in 
 a week or so time, will keep you coming back to play games, because they are just fun to play, 
 which to me is a sign of a well done game.
  
  Tilt- 9- A very satisfying experience all-around. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Nontan
Rating: 8.9
Date: Jan 27, 2006 10:13 am PT
Review:  All gameplay here. The touchscreen based swing mechanic is centerstage. The way you draw your swing 
 affects the speed, flight path, power of your shot. You can spin the ball too when you need it. 
 The sensitivity feels just right. You draw your swing too fast, you will probably overshoot, draw 
 it too slow, and you could miss a simple and short putt. It is not random and it does not feel 
 like a crapshoot. The swing mechanics are responsive enough to make the game very easy to learn 
 through just playing, and deep enough to challenge hardcore players to master all the little subtleties.
 
  
  My brother and I played single-cart multiplayer nearly all night last night. We only had 3 courses 
 to choose from, but the gameplay never felt stale. Especially when we were on the tougher course 
 with lots of bunkers and only little fairway. Sending distracting pictochats during your opponents 
 swing is a great addition to the game, and can give the otherwise highly competitive proceedings 
 an air of humor and creativity.
  
  9 out of 10 for pure fun and gameplay.
  
  10 out of 10 for innovation and execution.
  
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
