-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Ultimate Mortal Kombat
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/ds/action/ultimatemortalkombat/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 High-quality 2D fighting action.
 Online play works as advertised.
 Controls well on the DS.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 Absolutely no fun as a single-player game.
 Puzzle Kombat is pretty flat.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Nov 20, 2007
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 7
Critic Score: 7.3, 25 Review (s)
User Score: 8.2, 274 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Midway
Developer: Other Ocean Inter.
Genre: 2D Fighting
Date: Nov 12, 2007
ESRB: Mature

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Ultimate MK is a sharp fighting game that's still a lot of fun, but only against live opponents. 
 

  Fighting on the Nintendo DS goes online courtesy of Ultimate Mortal Kombat, a two-game compilation 
 that contains a quality port of Ultimate Mortal Kombat 3 and a version of Puzzle Kombat, the MK-themed 
 puzzle game that Midway inserted as an extra in Mortal Kombat: Deception. By itself, as a single-player 
 game, it's a bit of a dud. But if you're a fighting aficionado with a DS and wireless access to 
 the Internet, this is a pretty cool package.  

           This is the best portable Mortal Kombat game to date.      

  Ultimate Mortal Kombat 
 3 was the last 2D game in the MK series and, by far, the fastest of the bunch. It added a run button 
 that the previous games didn't have, amped up the combo system, and added a lot of interesting 
 new characters, all while maintaining the game's digital, photographic look. The finishing moves 
 got more ridiculous, too, with animalities -- where your fighter turns into some kind of animal and 
 does something to your opponent -- joining the regular fatalities, babalities, and friendships. But 
 even the regular fatalities became crazier. For example, Liu Kang can make an MK2 arcade machine 
 drop out of the sky to crush his victim. It wasn't as serious as the Mortal Kombat games that came 
 before it, and it's certainly not as serious as the darker set of MK games that appeared on the 
 previous generation of consoles. It's goofy, but it's also one of the better 2D fighters from its 
 era. It controls just fine on the DS, and it's still a lot of fun.  

  There's a catch, though. The Mortal Kombat series has been saddled with some of the worst computer-controlled 
 fighters in the history of the genre. Although the first three fights are easy, afterward the artificial 
 intelligence shifts into "win" gear, where it just reacts to every single little thing you do. 
 It's not a fair fight, and it's not a fun fight. The only realistic way to win is to exploit its 
 reactive nature and trick it, which isn't too hard. On the other hand, it also isn't any fun. If 
 you want to enjoy Ultimate Mortal Kombat, be prepared to play it against someone else.  

  You can play multiplayer against another person using only one copy of the game, but you'll be 
 limited to a couple of characters, so this isn't really viable for long-term excitement. Locally, 
 you'll need two copies of the game to play it right, or you can connect to the Internet and seek 
 out competition online. The online mode works surprisingly well, and in most cases, our matches 
 against other humans were free from noticeable latency. However, the occasional match was sluggish 
 and choppy, so as with most things involving an Internet connection, your mileage may vary. The 
 game keeps track of your rating, which is a score based on your wins and losses. You can match 
 up against friends using the standard friend-code system, or jump in against random players. All 
 of this stuff also applies to Puzzle Kombat.  

  Puzzle Kombat is a blocks-and-crash-gems style of puzzle game. It's effectively a rip-off of Super 
 Puzzle Fighter II Turbo, but with Mortal Kombat combatants instead of Street Fighter characters. 
 Each character can pull out a different special move by filling up a meter. These moves include 
 the ability to jumble up your opponent's pit, to remove blocks from your own, and so on. It's a 
 functional but unexciting puzzle game that made for a cute bonus back in Mortal Kombat: Deception, 
 where it was one part of a game with many modes. Here, where it gets equal billing with UMK3, it 
 comes across as a little stale.  

           Ultimate Mortal Kombat 3 is one of the best fighting games of the 2D era, and it still 
 plays well on the DS.      

  Graphically, the games look just fine. UMK3 looks like the arcade version but smaller. As a result, 
 the characters are somewhat less detailed than they were in the arcades. For example, you won't 
 really be able to see the look on Stryker's face as he straps dynamite to his foe and then plugs 
 his ears for the blast. Also, there are a handful of pauses and black frames that pop up when you 
 perform fatalities, change background stages by uppercutting your enemy through the ceiling, or 
 do anything else that forces the game to quickly load some new graphics from the cart. The game 
 uses the inactive screen to show you your fighter's special moves, which is useful if you don't 
 already have them memorized. The music is sharp, and the sound effects are good as well.  

  If you're a DS-owning Mortal Kombat fan, this is a great offering that's certainly worth owning, 
 but only if you're properly equipped to take your DS online. You probably won't want to play alone 
 for more than 15 minutes, so be sure to take that into account before you buy.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (36 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: BanjoMumbo
Rating: 7.5
Date: Apr 18, 2009 9:41 am PT
Review:  I got Ultimate Mortal Kombat DS hoping for a faithful port. It came true, a great port of the classic 
 game that was favored so much for it's extensive library of choosable fighters and great gameplay. 
 Though one thing Midway did not learn from it's GBA release, is the difficulty is drastically unbalanced. 
 Even on the easiest of modes which is novice, this game still becomes a very hard game as early 
 as the fourth opponent. The sound effects are polished, the graphics look great, the stages are 
 excellent, plus new content. It packs a great Puzzle Kombat mode with 3D elements intact for those 
 looking for a portable version of the once on consoles version of Puzzle Kombat. Though beginners 
 of the Mortal Kombat series should try an earlier installment like MK2 before going on to harder 
 adaptations such as this. Overall though, it was a great game. It is a must have for classic fans 
 of the series, and it was well brought to the portable DS. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: seedofallevil
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jul 17, 2008 3:55 pm PT
Review:  Sweet. If you know me, you know I love Mortal Kombat. You'll also know that I think 2D MK is WAY 
 better then 3D MK. So when I got my hands on this, I pooped a little. Ok, maybe not. But you know 
 what I mean. I LOVE this game. It'll bring back memories for fans and for newbies it includes a 
 Complete (mostly) Moves List that can be seen on the top screen. That list includes Fatalities, 
 babalities, brutalities and friendships. This game can be frustrating to people unfamiliar with 
 MK's good-ol' fashion move set, but I beat it a day after I got it with the best character Scorpion. 
 People often ask how this is possible, especially facing Motaro and Shao Kahn. I'll give some tips 
 later on. 
  
  First, though, I have got to say, this has a lot of characters and fan favorites. Sub-Zero, Sonya, 
 Jax, Kano, Shang Tsung and of course Scorpion and Liu Kang all make an appearance, plus others. 
 The gameplay is fun and brings back memories. That, and multiplayer is fun. There is nothing quite 
 like fatalitying one of your friends for the ultimate humiliation. 
  
  I promised you tips on beating it, didn't I? That means I should get on it. The first fights until 
 the endurance should be simple. Just stun them with whatever stun move you have. For your first 
 couple times i recommend playing as Scorpion or Sub-Zero because there stun moves are easy to do. 
 Once you have them stunned, uppercut them. The endurance is a pain, but after a few tries you'll 
 get it. Motaro. I HATE this guy. What I did is warp around and punch him (I was Scorpion remember) 
 and jumped in the air and tried to get right behind his head while in the air then unload punches 
 on him. Just do the last part if your Sub-Zero. This isn't fool proof, he'll still often kill you, 
 but you'll again eventually get it. Shao Kahn. You can taste victory, can't you? Well, beating 
 this mo-fo may take a while. This technique is again very heavy relying on fluke, but it does work. 
 Block and dodge until he does what I call the "Flying Knee". Crouch under it and uppercut him. 
 He'll hit the ground. Then run to him and uppercut right before he gets up. Time it right, and 
 you can keep doing this 'til he's dead. If you miss, wait for the flying knee again.
  
  There you have it, the review and a n00b guide all in one. And, as a bonus, if your sick of losing 
 to Shao Kahn, there's puzzle kombat. Yay! 
  UMK get's a 9.5 out of ten. It's a solid title any DS owner should have. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mikemetroid5565
Rating: 8
Date: Jul 12, 2008 10:58 pm PT
Review:  Ultimate Mortal Kombat is probably my favorite DS game. People whine about the computer being to 
 damn cheap but just tell me something... Where you just jump kicking at the computer? Sure i can 
 say the computer is cheap but not THAT cheap. you have to try to be unpredictable. i have been 
 able to beat UMK3 on the largest tower without continuing. Anyway the game feels so damn good on 
 the DS and with that moves list it makes the expierence feel good. Online is the least lag i have 
 ever seen on a DS wifi game. People online can be highly challenging and fun! My words can only 
 tell what is slightly wrong about this. This is a MUST buy for people who want a fun game to play 
 online and with friends.
  
  The Overall score issssssssssssssssssssss oh wait you can see it above me.. well anyway 8.0/10
 
  
  2 in the morning... sorry if its a crap review. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: blacksaibot
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jul 8, 2008 3:35 pm PT
Review:  By now, Midway knows MK3 was a failure. So they try to revive the series by bringing back favorite 
 characters from MKII (Reptile, Kitana, Jade, Mileena, classic Sub-Zero, Scorpion) but no Baraka 
 or Raiden. Not even Johnny Cage makes a return. So what do people do? They play 3D games that don't 
 take a crap in their fans' faces. 
  
  Nothing about MK3 is improved with UMK3 other than the new favorite characters. Game play is the 
 same, graphics are the same, and sound effects are the same but a few extra backgrounds that don't 
 really do much for anybody besides give them a reason to release another game to get a few extra 
 dollars. Two new characters are introduced: Ermac and Rain. They're moves are great and useful 
 but that's about it.
  
  The SNES version is lucky enough to have all characters (aside Kahn and Motaro) initially playable 
 characters. However, many of them are missing fatalities and friendships. This shows you how lazy 
 they were with this game. Brutalities (a "combo-ality" if you will) is introduced as a new finisher, 
 but it's nothing worth talking about in depth. 
  
  What makes this game better than the same-old boring UMK3 is puzzle kombat. But that got old back 
 in Deception's day/ 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Bust4G4me
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jul 7, 2008 2:27 pm PT
Review:  I found out about this game when my aunt showed me it and asked me to fight her. I instaintly fell 
 in love with it, when I owned her every time in it. I decided to buy it and enjoy in mortal kombat 
 experience.
  
  
  The first thing wrong i noticed about the game was the difficulty, I chose novice expecting the 
 easiest, and i get an AI that can tell my every move. Even though the AI is slow and dumb, it can 
 tell your every move and counter it. You may not notice this right away from the first person, 
 but all of a sudden you will be shocked when you can't even touch the Computer. For proof, try 
 this on Nightwolf as the computer and use Sub-Zero. Use Freeze, and Nightwolf will use the Reflect 
 special attack EVERY TIME. Or fight Jade as the computer and she will do the invincibilty special 
 and just run up to you and do like an 8 hit combo on you.
  
  It seems like Midway didnt even care about changing the AI, or the game at all. They completely 
 took the UMK3 from the arcade and just transferred it to the DS with no changes at all. Very disappointing 
 knowing that this is one of the best Mortal Kombat DS games released on the DS.
  
  The great thing about this game is its multiplayer. I've got to say its probably the most time 
 you will spend your time on this game, is online. The only fault is the lag, in certain maps the 
 lag is so ridiculous you can't even play, even when you have all 3 bars and perfect connection. 
 Other than that It's pretty fun owning noobs online, even getting owned by the pro's because they 
 always do a fatality you have never seen before, and its also easy to learn from them.
  
  In all this game gets a 7.5 its gameplay makes it extremely fun, but it lacks in flaws and careless 
 errors Midway did not fix. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: HalfLife24
Rating: 9
Date: Jul 3, 2008 2:48 pm PT
Review:  this game can be EXTREMELY frustrating on single player but on wifi and ds download play very fun. 
 So on single player here are a few hints on how 2 beat your opponents when your playing by yourself 
 always try 2 jump and kick a lot and it should bring the difficulty down a bit. Also when your 
 on novice the opponent lets you do a lot of special moves so its good to take advantage of that, 
 however the higher the difficulty the less special you can do. once you get past 4 or 5 enemies 
 (depending on difficulty) there is and endurance round that is usully not that hard. once you get 
 past that there is a half horse half man that can be really hard to beat, but if you use sheeva 
 and jump and kick him in the face he will most likely go down fastest. Next there is a guy called 
 shao kahn at first this will seem extremely hard and intimidating but hes really no that hard. 
 Pick sheeva again and as soon as the match starts start backing up then he will most likely try 
 to hit you going really fast but if you duck and wait for the perfect moment u should upper cut 
 him and repeat the process until he is dead. thats it thanks for looking o yeah and give me a rating 
 or somthin im bored lol 
::::::

::::::
UserName: thicknick
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jun 2, 2008 8:49 pm PT
Review:  OK starting off the game is awesome. When you start playing, you'll notice UMK DS isn't just UMK3, 
 it's also got Deception's Puzzle Kombat, which is a nice little bonus feature. It takes way too 
 long to complete though, and a long time to become good at if you're not inherently good at those 
 kinds of games.
  Besides, most people aren't buying the game for that anyway, so that's the extent I'll be covering 
 Puzzle Kombat in this review.
  
  As for the arcade port of UMK3, here's the Pros and Cons
  
  Pros:
  -Arcade perfect port
 
  -Pretty good sound (I use headphones)
  -Responsive controls
  -Wide selection of character (but is it wide enough?)
  -3 unlockable characters
  -Amazing WiFi
 
  -Special moves displayed on the opposite
  
  Cons:
  -Way too hard... ridiculous single player difficulty. Even novice will give you trouble.
  -WiFi 
 players generally use Human Smoke. No one else.
  -Why not MK Trilogy? Even more characters would've been nice, and the cheats that allowed 1 button 
 fatalities, etc. I'm sure the DS can handle it.
  -Fatality timer is too short
  
  This game gets a 7.5. I'd like to rate it higher but the higher difficulty in particular brings 
 the gameplay down. I also really wish the game were MKT, and not UMK3.
  
  All in all, it's worth a buy for a hardcore MK fan, but if you're new to the franchise, this game's 
 challenging single player may scare you away. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Cradleofbodom
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 11, 2008 11:46 pm PT
Review:  I got this game a few days ago because I love MK, and I must say this is the **** Its almost identical 
 to UMK3 for the original systems, plus online multiplayer. The single player though, as many others 
 have said, is insainly hard (I can only beat it on novice) Its just hard, they block alot of the 
 punches and kicks and specials you send, and then they get punches and specials in on you when 
 your away and blocking. Novice took me awhile to beat even. I really love the multiplayer, since 
 I only have one copy, but my lil bro has a ds, he can download and play it off mine, only bad part 
 is that you can only play as 4 characters (scorpian, reptile, katana, jade)
  The online play is awsome, you find someone to play with, you can sit there and play as many matches 
 as you want with them, unlike games like metroid were if someone quits, you have to search over 
 again. Only complaint about the game really is how everyone online uses human smoke and special 
 grapple move, its kinda cheating and no fun if you use that over and over again on people, try 
 to very people, seriously. Awsome game, great multiplayer, but only for the best MK players on 
 single, I wouldnt get if you didnt have WiFi. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SergantCross
Rating: 4
Date: Apr 11, 2008 12:35 pm PT
Review:  this catastrophic A-I predicts and illealgy cheats the game on single player, the puzzle kombats 
 fun as you can set difficulties.
  
  The good: very excellent detailed level backgrounds, fighters from umk3 have returned with good 
 presentation for nintendo fans to enjoy.
  
  The bad: no appeal to the A-I whatsoever if you play UMK3 rather than Puzzle kombat, your just 
 gonna get many wins in puzzle kombat but you will get more losses in UMK3 but who invented A WINNING 
 STREAK ON OFFLINE SUPPORT THAN ONLINE ITS NOT WORTH IT?!! A-I bug cheat of annimalty friendship 
 and bability as they dont know the rules, 11 win streaks up to the last tower and 6 in puzzle kombat, 
 multiplayer is more fun than playing on your own for the last 10 minutes
  
  Sorry when i lost to cyrax on round 2 i had an animality so i am angry so i am sorry to say i cant 
 review it look at the bad thigns that this game put in a shame of all shames of its dumb sin.
 
  
  This is a punishing difficult single playing game on UMK3 on this game it's near impossible that 
 i manage to finish the towers in anger management!!!
  
  Gameplay 2/10
  Graphics 9/10
  Value 8/10
  Tilt 5/10
  
  Overall 4/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sir_jakey
Rating: 8.5
Date: Apr 8, 2008 8:21 am PT
Review:  This game overall is a fun game to play on the move and it plays just like the original but its 
 only flaw is the fact that it can get quite repetitive on single player. the single player mode 
 involves choosing a character and progressing through multiple stages and facing of with most of 
 the characters in the game, once you get to the end you will have to first face motaro and then 
 you will have to face shao kahn however after defeating these two you will not be able to do a 
 finisher move. There are a few extras on the DS version of this game one of the main extras is 
 the puzzle kombat which involves placing blocks of the same colour together and using a special 
 breaker block to send these blocks to the other player and you can also play online on both of 
 these games which is great fun. 
  
  If you are a mortal kombat fan then you have to buy this. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: t-mac720
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 27, 2008 5:05 pm PT
Review:  I just go this game and like now im obsessed with it . I hated the ds and now i love it just because 
 of this game =] . It feels like the exact same game as the arcade except portable. I play this game 
 forr hourss and i never get bored it. The only thing i wish this game had was more characters. 
 The game is also pretty hard well for me it is . Like i can only get to motaro and than he kicks 
 my ass! but other than that this game is pretty sick. The game also brings some game that is like 
 tetris except it a brings a mortal kombat twist =] . People say it sucks but its not that bad. 
 This game also has wifi connections but it sucks. You can only pick 4 or 5 characters and it also 
 doesnt show you how to do the fatalities or the special moves . But i dont really care about wifi 
 that much so w. e . All and all this is the sh! t i recommend to any one. if your a mortal kombat 
 fan your going to love this game sooooo much =] 
::::::

::::::
UserName: aryoshi
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 21, 2008 11:46 pm PT
Review:  Graphics: If you've ever played any version of UMK, then you have an instant idea on how well the 
 graphics are made. Exactly the same as that. Although, the other game port in here, Puzzle Kombat, 
 everything is slightly enhanced and is more 3Dish, although the way the characters are made in 
 that port is almost laughable.
  
  Sound/Music: Well who wouldn't enjoy the sounds of screams and grunting and bloodsplats and .. 
 you get the idea. Great sounds, and the music is pretty catchy. Every BGM for each level goes along 
 with the features of the level basically.
  
  Difficulty: This can be altered, however it varies. In the main UMK mode, there are 4 paths you 
 can take. As each level progresses, the enemy gets harder. If you use the fourth path, then obviously 
 it'll be a little harder. Plus, you can change the difficulty in the options so you can make it 
 even more harder.
  
  Gameplay: As I stated before, there are two games in this. Each of them have WiFi capability so 
 you can test your might in your combat and puzzle ways. I, myself, am better at the puzzle one. 
 The main idea is the same as most MK games; the goal is to use the many characters offered to you 
 and fight through a specific number of people before making it to the mini-boss Motoro (traditional 
 Mortal Kombat monster) and then head-to-head with Shao Khan who is the hardest battle in the game. 
 The WiFi quality is pretty good, although it can be laggy.
  
  Controls: Pretty much while you play, all your special moves and fatalities are on the top screen 
 (this can be changed to show on the bottom screen and the fight screen to be on the top in the 
 options) . The controls aren't hard to learn; L is run, R is block, X is high-kick, A is low-kick, 
 B is low-punch, and Y is high-punch. The way you'd want a MK game to be like.
  
  Overall: If you like fighting games with a twist of blood n' guts going everywhere, plus a few 
 bones scattering everywhich way, and/or you're into MK games, this is one you'll want to add to 
 your collection, not disappointing at all. The addition of WiFi makes it all the better! There 
 are also several secrets you can unlock such as new characters and so on. Try to find them all.. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DIDDYBOY97
Rating: 7
Date: Mar 14, 2008 2:47 pm PT
Review:  In the past, 16-bit fighting games were a little bit more than novelties. With only a few exceptions, 
 Genesis and Mega Drive system's fighting ports were sometimes, dirty, ugly, unfinished versions 
 of their arcade counterparts complete with poor sound. But as systems became more powerful, the 
 arcade fighting game ports skyrocketed. Since then, we've recieved games like Killer Instinct on 
 the SNES and Virtua Fighter for the Sega 32X, all of which systems proved they could at least handle 
 a decent fighting game. 
  
  Now, let's get into the actual game, especially since now it looks like I'm talking to myself. 
 The graphics are just a bit scaled down from the arcade version, nevertheless it looks pretty motherfuucking 
 close. Sure, they may have been distorted a bit, but they all look great on the small screen and 
 most importantly, they play just perfectly. 9.5/10
  
  
  The sound is just basically the exact same sound from the arcade original surprisingly! Not really 
 much to say here, 'ey? 10/10
  
  The gameplay is pretty good as well. Be warned; for although the first two fights are easy, on 
 the third fight it starts to kick it into bullshiit difficulty, where it just reacts to everything 
 you do. 5.9/10.
  
  Overall, I'd still recommend this game nonetheless. Overall: 7/10.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: smokerules123
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 27, 2008 12:50 pm PT
Review:  In 1995, Midway released an update of Mortal Kombat 3 called Ultimate Mortal Kombat 3. This had 
 all the characters from the MK3 game as well as every ninja character (e. g. Ninja Sub-Zero, Jade, 
 Kitana, Mileena, Scorpion, Reptile, Ninja Smoke, Noob Saibot, etc) that was from MK. Then Midway 
 released Mortal Kombat Advance in 2001, &, oh god, that game sucked. You wouldn't believe that 
 this was really hard, & it had crap graphics & stuff. Now Midway releases a great game on the DS, 
 & i have to say that it ROCKS!!!!! You get all the characters that were from UMK3 (except Rain) including 
 the secret characters. But however, don't try the single player. It sucks. You get your ass handed 
 to you by the cheap CPU. I recommend the multiplayer. & the icing on the cake is that, as well 
 as the DS Download Play, this game uses Nintendo's Wi-Fi connection. That means that you can play 
 against players all over the world, but however, it can sometimes lag.
  As well as the UMK3 game, you get a special treat. Mortal Kombat Deception's Puzzle Kombat. If 
 you haven't played or you don't own MK: Deception, this is your chance to play it. Its basically 
 like Puzzle Fighter & Tetris, except you place differently coloured blocks & you destroy them with 
 the MK dragon logos depending on that colour. Like UMK3, this also uses the DS Download Play & 
 Wi-Fi. There are also all the secret characters from that. There are a lot of secrets including 
 UMK3's ending's & bio's & more. If you ever see this, pick it up. You'll thank me for it :-) .
 
  
  Good:
  Wi-Fi
  Everything from UMK3 is back
  Puzzle Kombat is cool
  Bad:
  The CPU in UMK3 is too hard
  Doesn't have Rain & Noob Saibot as playable characters
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: XTREEMIST
Rating: 7.5
Date: Feb 17, 2008 9:20 am PT
Review:  Short length review:
  MK2 + MK3 = UMK.
  So UMK = okay.
  
  Medium length review:
  I already reviewed MK3, so I'm not going to say what I've already about the game. No big changes 
 to the game play, so all I can really comment on are the new characters and the new stages. Everything 
 else isn't significant enough to make the game worthy.
  
  Stages:
  A hell of a lot more interesting than MK3. Some of them brought that good MK feeling back to fans. 
 Stages like The Subway, The Bank, and The Bridge just didn't cut it. Scorpion's Lair, The Kave, 
 and The Lost (blue mk3 portal with MK2 bridge) brought that good feeling to you.
  Those aren't the only stages that are new, so I'll leave it up to you to play the game and found 
 out what they are and realize what I'm talking about.
  
  New (returning) Characters:
  Reptile, Scorpion, Kitana, Mileena, Jade... why the HELL were they left out of MK3 in the first 
 place? The morons who made MK3 realized their mistake and put them back in, but it's too late now. 
 So many turned their heads to better fighting games... that were THREE DIMENSIONAL.
  Aside from that, they did a descent job with character moves, but for some they god rid of moves 
 and didn't add new ones to make the characters more interesting. Their combos however were great; 
 a lot better than the other MK3 characters in my opinion.
  I was glad to see the classic Sub-Zero return, because the younger brother looks like some damn 
 American in a torn up clown suit.
  
  This game is great for only new characters, but it still has all the crap MK3 had (and when I say 
 crap, you should read my review on MK3 to find out what I am talking about)
  
   Puzzle Kombat:
   What a fun and addicting game!!!!! I can't express enough how much fun this 
 is. It's taking Tetris and giving it a real purpose to playing. This brought some of my lady friends 
 back to play MK with me, thanks Midway, lol. The learning curve for this game is a little steep, 
 because your initial strategies will not work against more experienced players or a higher difficulty 
 in the AI. But that brings A LOT and I mean A LOT of replay value to this game. The only things 
 I can complain about this game is when you're playing against the CPU, it sometimes cheats and 
 doesn't give you the bricks you need and you can blatantly see that this is the fact and not just 
 your imagination because you're losing. I wish there were more characters to choose from with a 
 bit more descent special moves, and definitely they needed more stages.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Rej72380
Rating: 8
Date: Feb 9, 2008 5:21 pm PT
Review:  Since 1995, Ultimate Mortal Kombat 3 has been the best title in the series, with it's out of sight 
 finishing moves, unlockable characters and features. Now, there is a version of the game available 
 for the Nintendo DS, with a few extras.
  
  
  The graphics in this game are arcade perfect, which isn't saying mych, given that the DS is capable 
 of 3D graphics, but come off as awesome. There is a ton of blood shedded during the 3-round battles, 
 so this is definatly not a game intended for younger players.
  
  Sound wise, the game is excellent. All of the music and sound effects from the arcade game are 
 there, including the various voice clips of the characters and the commentator saying "Finish Him/Her" 
 when the match has been won.
  
  On the control side, the game is pretty suitable for the button layout for the DS, using all six 
 buttons, including the L button for the run feature, which is needed to pull off some very tricky 
 combos and to avoid the opponent's barrage of attacks.
  
  Gameplay wise, it is good. The single player mode is subpar, due to the excessive cheapness of 
 the A. I., with it spamming throws and blocking every time you attack. Also, the Puzzle Kombat minigame 
 that is included is only meant as a slight 10 minute diversion and nothing else.
  
  What makes the gameplay what it is, however, is the ability to play against other players from 
 around the world, via the Nintendo WiFi Connection. You can also search for players whose rating 
 is close to your level, which adds a sense of parity to the experience. While there is some lag 
 during online play, it is an excellent experience, nonetheless.
  
  Overall, Ultimate Mortal Komat is the best fighting game you can play on the Nintendo DS. No other 
 fighting game comes close to this excellence that game brings on the popular Nintendo handheld. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cycodamo
Rating: 6
Date: Jan 28, 2008 12:33 am PT
Review:  Ultimate Mortal Kombat on DS can be fun in single player, until you meet Motaro; then it becomes 
 frustrating, unfair and downright mean-spirited. And this is on the Novice setting, the mind boggles 
 how difficult the game becomes on the other three, harder settings.
  
  It makes you wonder whether the game testers actually bothered to play a single player game and 
 whether they'd ever be able to actually complete a game by beating Motaro and Shao Khan. Cos I 
 don't think they could do it.
  
  Puzzle Kombat is good fun, but becomes similarly frustrating when trying to defeat the final character. 
 But at least he/she feels beatable and the difficulty setting is not so far out of whack. Strangely, 
 Puzzle Kombat starts off in the medium difficulty setting, while the main game doesn't offer such 
 an option. It would definitely benefit from this, cos it feels like it starts out in ultra hard 
 - but even ultra hard in Tekken is beatable. The default setting in Ultimate Mortal Kombat 3 should 
 be named impossible, to be closer to the truth.
  
  I imagine this game shines in multiplayer, but as a single player game it's hard to recommend given 
 its insane difficulty setting and ultra-reactive AI. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Whellock
Rating: 8
Date: Aug 14, 2008 9:15 am PT
Review:  Okay, so here is my point of view, this one is even much better to the abysmal version on the GBA. 
 Ultimate Mortal Kombat for the Nintendo DS is just nothing special because its just only 2 games 
 on it.
  
  First you have Ultimate Mortal Kombat 3- The arcade version which is one of the best MK fighting 
 games since MK2 
  
  Secondly you have puzzle Kombat- Which came with Mortal Kombat Deception.
  
  On Ultimate Mortal 
 Kombat 3, all the characters appear accept for Rain who unfortunately doesn't appear. To unlock 
 Mileena, Ermac and Sub-Zero with the ninja mask on, you need to put the correct code in it. To 
 do that, you have to get beaten and when the countdown goes to zero, a menu will appear and you 
 have about 10 seconds put the code in otherwise its game over. The game itself is extremely hard 
 because you get beaten so quickly in one go but if your lucky, the top screen has the tips of how 
 you do the special moves from each fighter you choose and it also shows you how to perform a finishing 
 move and thats cool !
  
  On Puzzle Kombat, its so addictive and easy and you will have plenty of time with it. And when 
 you beat your opponment, in 2 or 3 rounds if you get beaten in round 1 or 2, your fighter performs 
 a fatality on his opponment and thats cool as well.
  
  And another good thing is you can play against other people from around the World by using Nintendo 
 wifi connection on Ultimate Mortal Kombat 3 and Puzzle Kombat. But what lags it, is the speed of 
 the connection and thats my answer.
  
  I bought this game at a sale price of 19.98 and that is a good bargin for a game like this.
 
  
  This game is rated 15 by the BBFC (rated 16 by the PEGI) and M by the ESRB so you have to be 15 
 years or older before you buy this game because it is quite violent all the way through.
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: frankand007
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 5, 2008 3:47 pm PT
Review:  I find it amusing that i find people everyday to fight, MK on 2D has always been the Ultimate fighting 
 game, and so it is, every person goes for at least 10 rounds 'till you met your openent, and you 
 can get enough of trying to beat someones ass, all though your getting yours kick, ever.
  
  Ultimate stands, superb, and if you can't stand, you officially suck.
  
  For does how make 
 the same moves over and over again, u officially suck also, and i can block you, so dont mess with 
 J. Cage.... (???) ... that's right, see ya via Wi-fi.
  
  I find it amusing that i find people everyday to fight, MK on 2D has always been the Ultimate fighting 
 game, and so it is, every person goes for at least 10 rounds 'till you met your openent, and you 
 can get enough of trying to beat someones ass, all though your getting yours kick, ever.
  
  Ultimate stands, superb, and if you can't stand, you officially suck.
  
  For does how make 
 the same moves over and over again, u officially suck also, and i can block you, so dont mess with 
 J. Cage.... (???) ... that's right, see ya via Wi-fi.
  
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: striljr
Rating: 3.5
Date: Jan 4, 2008 6:51 pm PT
Review:  I heard about this game coming out on the DS and I had a mixed predictions. Some were that this 
 was going to be a fun recreation of old school MK the others which I should of kept in mnd were 
 that this was a cheap and disasterious remake of old school MK! I enjoyed old school MK for SNES 
 and Sega Genesis and this, just like Midway Arcade Treasures Extended Edition and MKAdvance this 
 one is without a doubt a big failure! STOP! and I mean STOP! recreating old MK for portable systems!!! 
 It ain't nowhere near as good as the old console versions from the 1990's! It's getting my hopes 
 up for an improvement of it and a big nasty suprise which takes more money out of my pocket! So 
 stop Miday! Stop making these lousy and cheap remakes! Your new ideas are great like Armageddon 
 and Shaolin Monks. If you come up with more new ideas like that that'll get me hooked. But this 
 game does not! Multiplayer mode on this is the big crave that everyone is talking about and I'd 
 say it's trash! I want SIngle player mode to be fun and it ain't!! I get pounded to the ground 
 by combo after combo from the opponent. I can't even beat Motoro without be pounded and losing! 
 You think MK Advance was bad enough well at least you can beat MK Advance in SIngle player mode! 
 This game you can't!!! Believe me! It's nothing personal but I can't see why the reviewer gave 
 this game and enybody else would give this game a positive review I absolutely would not. Unless 
 you can make this game more true to the original and beatable MK games from the SNES and Sega Genesis 
 I'll give them a positive review, but this game is something you want to give a two thumbs down!! 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: HumanIce2
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 30, 2007 9:43 am PT
Review:  I really wasn't sure about this game at first, but I bought it anyway and I like it a lot.
  BUT this is not a game that you play bunks of missions and story and something that takes few hours 
 to beat, this is just Ultimate Mortal Kombat 3 (ARC) and Puzzle Kombat.
  the prices you get in this game are stats and 3 beatable characters for the main fighting game 
 and 6 characters beatable for Puzzle Kombat.
  there are very few options you have in this game.
  but it's a great fighting game, I'd say this 
 is the best 2D Mortal Kombat out there. and it has online play THAT's what makes this game awesome.
 
  also Puzzle Kombat is online but I don't enjoy Puzzle Kombat that much. they should have made 
 this tetris or something.. but the Puzzle game they chose is rather boring and I don't feel like 
 playing it.
  but it's very fun playing this game online, and also very fun with friends.
  the story mode is good once. it's REALLY hard and you'll maybe give up very quick..
  but I know 
 a trick to get good stats in singleplayer mode, keep playing level 1, 2, 3 and 4, and always in 
 the 4th level I always die o_o but before I die and says "finish him" that's were you should press 
 start and quit, and all your other games will be saved where you won and your stats will get better 
 that way.
  but anyway, it's a very good fighting game with online play.
  it belongs at your DS collection.
  seriously, it's a better online game than Mario Kart DS. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Junior_AIN
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 27, 2007 7:55 pm PT
Review:  Yes, a classic fighting game nicely ported for the DS, and with Wi-Fi features!
  
  Ultimate Mortal Kombat 3 must be one of my favorites Mortal Kombat of all, the only bad thing I 
 can think about the Super Nintendo release is the absence of animalities, they're so cool, but 
 they took it off. Well this one doesn't suffer from that, you get the whole deal, fatalities, animalities, 
 friendships, babalities, pit fatalities and everything.
  
  The multiplayer is cool, the online wi-fi is great, you can play with friends through friends codes 
 exchange, or against some random player around the world, it's up to you. There's the Puzzle Kombat, 
 it's a puzzle game with character having their own abilities and stuff, pretty cool if you like 
 the style.
  
  The single player is cheap and a pain, you can't choose the difficulty and the one imposed is unforgiving 
 and merciless. The graphics are great, just like you'd expect of the port, and the same goes for 
 the sound.
  
  So if you're willing to play online it's a great deal, if you're planning on having some offline 
 fun this may not be the best choice. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: StillFreeTagger
Rating: 7
Date: Dec 27, 2007 3:09 pm PT
Review:  Midway's first MK title on the DS is a good one, but not the best. Mainly because it's another 
 damn port of UMK3. I enjoy UMK3, really I do, but I am getting tired of it being ported to every 
 console.
  
  Of course, the game isn't just UMK3. Oh no! MK Deception's addictive Puzzle Kombat is also packaged! 
 There's a plus!
  
  Gameplay is what we've come to love about Mortal Kombat. Bashing each others guts out and then 
 finishing off with a satisfying fatality. Simple and straight-forward.
  
  The graphics in UMK for both games are great! UMK3 has improved on the portable, especially after 
 the horrid MK Advance. Puzzle Kombat's graphics are also good for a DS title.
  
  Sound quality is also great. You'll feel like you're playing at the arcade. However, you can still 
 tell that some tracks are on the level of DS quality.
  
  The game's main problem (other than being another port) is it's difficulty. Only true MK veterans 
 can beat UMK3. Yes the AI is that hard. The first three fights are easy, but by the fourth fight 
 the game kicks it into high gear. Puzzle Fighter's difficulty can be changed at the options menu, 
 but UMK3 does not have the option. Bummer. However, UMK3's difficulty is lowered a bit with the 
 addition of a special moves screen. This screen displays each fighters specials and fatalities 
 during play. Even with that, performing a fatality is still near impossible. Midway should have 
 just allowed the player to activate one by taping the touch screen.
  
  I personally hoped that Midway would have packaged Chess Kombat with Puzzle Kombat, instead of 
 UMK3. Hell, I bet the DS has enough memory to hold Deception's Konquest mode! Now that would be 
 something!
  
  Ultimate Mortal Kombat is good, but not great. It's still worth taking a look at. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: knux2007
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 25, 2007 4:28 pm PT
Review:  This game is great because its bloody fighting in the palm of your hand, you can battle people 
 across the world with nintendo Wi-Fi connection, and its two games in one with puzzle kombat. Even 
 little kids can enjoy this game with the option to turn off blood and fatalities. However, I highly 
 suggest that you still keep this game away from children unless you are going to let them play 
 puzzle kombat, and with three files, three people can play thier own game on 1 cartridge. Although 
 this game is really fun, it can get boring if you don't have Wi-Fi. I personally suggest that you 
 should only get this game if... 1. You're an MK fan, 2. You have a friend with the game, 3. You 
 have a Wi-Fi signal in your house, or 4. Any combination of 1,2, and 3... So when you see your 
 friend, yell "FINISH HIM!", rip out his/her skeleton, then say "Fatality!". (Note: Do not really 
 attempt) . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Pinkyimp
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 18, 2007 1:50 pm PT
Review:  i love this game... plain and simple its just awesome, the characters stages fatalities u name 
 it and this game has it, i had this same game for the X360 and i have to say this is a worthy port 
 and midways way of saying sorry that we made MK: Advance
  
  at the start of the game you have 2 choices: the regular version of Ultimate mortal kombat or puzzle 
 kombat which was introduced in mortal kombat deception (i think it was) .. which makes the game 
 even more worth your money,
  the only problem i have with puzzle combat is it just take too damn LONG!... i mean jesus it takes 
 forever to end 1 round, after playing 3 matches you get tired of flipping reds and blues over and 
 over again
  
  the WIFI in this game is SOLID, but lag did occur in some of the recent games ive played, while 
 this to me is not a big problem, it would be better if the game dident freeze when im trying to 
 do a fatality..... speaking of fatalities im the one mostly being the victim as i just plain suck 
 at this game i mean, damn... wow i knew i was bad but not like this, nevertheless i stick it out 
 and play a few rounds but this game is punishing 
  
  overall 9.5/10 ******check my GS page for all my friend codes***** 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SegaFan_Ssk
Rating: 7
Date: Dec 10, 2007 5:34 pm PT
Review:  Let's face it, there haven't been too many standout fighting games in the handheld market. Mortal 
 Kombat in particular has had some pretty infamous handheld ports on the Game Boy and Game Gear, 
 most of which were just short of abysmal. It's not so much that the games themselves are bad; it's 
 just been the fact that up until recently handheld systems haven't been powerful enough to allow 
 much more than painfully limited -and broken- versions of the original arcade games. After seeing 
 many different takes on the latest MK handheld title, Ultimate Mortal Kombat, I can honestly say 
 that this game got me excited; maybe now I can finally enjoy some great 2D fighting action on the 
 go. One thing I should say right off the bat is that Ultimate Mortal Kombat is in fact two games 
 in one. First off you get a ported version of Ultimate Mortal Kombat 3, and if that doesn't keep 
 you busy then you also have Puzzle Kombat (inspired by Super Puzzle Fighter II Turbo) at your disposal; 
 both games include online multiplayer.
  
  I'll start with UMK3 first; basically it's the same game you've known and loved from 1996, but 
 with an online function and the ability to record your W-L records from arcade mode and multiplayer. 
 UMK3 is the essence of old-school Mortal Kombat; perform bloody special moves and attacks in order 
 to defeat your opponent, and the finish them off with some (at the time of it's release) pretty 
 gory fatalities. I must say that overall the gameplay remains pretty smooth; I haven't had much 
 problem with framerate slowdown in my time with it, and the bugs/glicthes were limited to some 
 very minor colour changes on projectiles, usually Scorpion/Smoke's spear. The online mode runs 
 very well overall; sure, you will have some matches against opponents that get downright laggy, 
 but that tends to be limited to when you play global matches (outside your region) . I never had 
 anything like random disconnects or significant slowdown occur during my matches over the WFC, 
 the boys at Midway did a superb job with this mode. The only glaring problem I found with this 
 game is the single-player AI, I don't think I've experienced AI like this before; at the same time 
 they can be complete idiots and insanely cheap. I'm not a scrub by any means, but when an AI character 
 can bend the rules of the game in it's favour to win it's just plain unfair, and they literally 
 give you free shots at times. Motaro and Shao Kahn, the game bosses are the most notorious of this; 
 I've seen everything from instant recovery on special moves to multiple projectiles on the screen 
 at once.
  
  Now on to Puzzle Kombat, and like I said before this is a take on the Puzzle Fighter games by Capcom. 
 Throughout the game you must try to link indentically-coloured blocks, and then use a breaker (MK 
 symbol) to clear them from your playfield; which then results in your opponent having that same 
 number of blocks dumped onto their field. There are also bombs that can clear the field of any 
 particular colour (depending what it lands on) , and each character has a super that can have special 
 effects on their own field or the opponent's field. If you enjoy a good puzzle game then this can 
 become pretty addicting, but many people who purchase this game will buy it for UMK3, and to them 
 Puzzle Kombat is an afterthought. I couldn't even successfully play online with Puzzle Kombat simply 
 because nobody is playing it, and I doubt many of your friends will want to either. The AI again 
 is pretty dumb and you shouldn't have too much trouble with the single-player mode, however if 
 you plan to unlock all the characters it may take a while thanks to some pretty high standards 
 for unlocking them.
  
  The graphics for Ultimate Mortal Kombat are pretty impressive given the limitations of the DS. 
 In UMK3 you will notice that the character sprites have been scaled down, as well as the backgrounds 
 in order to meet with the DS's low resolution. The digitized characters the game was famous for 
 lack some fine detail, but they still look very nice. The backgrounds don't seem to have been altered 
 much from the original version, so you can expect the same look and feel to the stages you are 
 fighting on. Puzzle Kombat was introduced in MK Deception, so you can expect some nicely done 3D 
 character models for the fighters that beat each other up while you're concentrating on the puzzle 
 itself. The models, as well as blood and fatality effects were scaled down as well to fit the DS 
 resolution, but these are some pretty decent 3D visuals under the circumstances.
  
  The music is very clear and sounds just like the original arcade version, which was already great 
 to begin with. The BGM for UMK3 is overall excellent, but Puzzle Kombat has very generic music 
 that I never really notice when I actually play the game, it's nothing special. The voiceovers 
 in both games sound crystal clear; Scorpion's "Get over here!" and Jax's "Gotcha!", among other 
 lines aren't muffled or compromised in any way whatsoever. The sound effects for hits and attacks 
 is spot on, and again nothing is muffled or out of sync with the actual gameplay.
  
  Ultimate Mortal Kombat delivers a great handheld port of UMK3, and while it's nice to have in there 
 Puzzle Kombat probably won't be the main reason you pick up this game. $30 is reasonable for this 
 game, but you may want to wait until it hits the $20 mark before you pick it up. If you happen 
 to have either the Xbox Live Arcade version of the game, or even the port found on the Sega Saturn 
 (the other really good port) then there's not much reason to pick up UMK as it doesn't add anything 
 new to the game or offer any improvements. However, if you want a good fighting game that you can 
 play on road trips or when you don't have access to a console, then you can't go wrong with Ultimate 
 Mortal Kombat. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: topgod
Rating: 1
Date: Dec 8, 2007 11:51 pm PT
Review:  To put it simple arcade version sucks. They should've used the console version. Those far better 
 for the MK series. I wouldn't recommend wasting your money on it. It makes PDP a whole lot better. 
 The only thing that was good about it was the wifi feature. Other than that, there is nothing else. 
 Even w/ AR the game was boring. Every time I played the game, I became so really angry right at 
 the beginning and as I progressed became for more and more angry. I felt like smashing my ds lite. 
 And its all because of the screwed up AI in the game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: verdugoRE4
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jan 1, 2008 2:33 am PT
Review:  Since the dawn of the 90s, Mortal Kombat has been one of the most well known, and easily the most 
 revolutionary games of the genre. Unleashing a new look and idea to fighting games, and most noteably, 
 unleashing one of the bloodiest and most violent fighting games (if not games in general) ever 
 made. Since then, the game has grasped a widespread audience of gamers with its accessable gameplay, 
 and its trademark brand of blood and gore. 
  
  
  
  Now, Ultimate Mortal Kombat is not the first time a MK game has been transfered to a handheld console. 
 But what separates it from Mortal Kombat one for the GBA, is that for one thing, the game is a 
 much more fluid and fun (if not incredibly difficult) port of a Mortal Kombat game than the disaster 
 Mortal Kombat GBA was. The port is of the famous Ultimate Mortal Kombat 3 for the Arcade, Super 
 Nintendo, and Xbox 360. And the game does a swell job of transfering the same button mashing and 
 brutal action as the original.
  
  
  The gameplay for this DS version is a bit sketchy at first, but you'll get used to the DS's handheld 
 fighting game experiance. Now one excellent feature included with this game is the use of Wi-Fi 
 online play, so you won't be limited to just fighting the 20+ characters in the game, but you'll 
 get to face players from around the world as well. And if you don't have Wi-Fi, you can still face 
 a friend, even if they don't have this game. But take away the online play and such, and you still 
 have a well playing handheld version of UMK3. As an added plus, the game features Puzzle Kombat, 
 which is similar to Tetris mixed with some MK flash and flair. You might recognize this from MK 
 Deception.
  
  
  
  The game's graphics are nothing special, dispite this, you won't have to worry about your bloody 
 action and fatalities looking bad, for the real version and this version are compareable. The sound 
 is excellent, and is not diminished one bit when compared to the original Arcade or SNES version 
 of this game. 
  
  
  Overall, Ultimate Mortal Kombat is a worthy buy if you really want to play Mortal Kombat wherever 
 you go, and the added online play helps this game to be more than just a re-make for handheld fans.
 
  
  -verdugo
  
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: kittykatz5k
Rating: 7.5
Date: Nov 20, 2007 11:24 pm PT
Review:  Story:
  There is some kind of story, but consider this cut from my review. I have no care for the story, 
 and the story doesn't care about me as I haven't seen anything telling me what it is.
  
  Graphics:
  The fact that this is a port of the old game is it's low point for graphics. The crazy 
 animation and sprite work is showing it's age in today's world. However, it's still pretty good 
 looking, if not crude in some areas. Animations are well done and the frame rates never seem to 
 drop. The game's frame rate feels not like an emulation of the arcades, but like the arcades. That's 
 all I can say about it.
  
  Gameplay:
  The simplest change made all the difference in the world. This is Mortal Kombat, you fight recklessly 
 to the death until one of you wins, in which you can pull off a fatality or a few other finishing 
 moves to rub it in their face that you won. Where the change is from the many years ago is in the 
 second screen. Before, people I played against would mash buttons until something kool happened, 
 but now there's an entire move-list in the second screen. What this allows is easier to get into 
 action and a lot less paper printed out from gamefaq movelist. People jumped right into the game 
 throwing fire balls and drop kicks with ease and the skill of my competition went up quite a bit 
 in a fast amount of time. Online works great and I rarely encountered slow down. There's also plenty 
 to see within the game itself, assuming you have an opponent to fight.
  
  What I will NEVER understand about mortal kombat though is their character inconsistencies. Maybe 
 it's in that story I don't care about, but it seems many characters are cut/removed/changed constantly. 
 My brother won't even touch this game because they cut Raiden AND Johnny Cage, and I don't' blame 
 him. Those were his 2 favorite characters. Instead, get ready for 2 versions of several characters, 
 and now robot versions of scorpion and such who have no originality. Balancing also seems to be 
 a pretty unaddressed issue, Sub Zero and Jade are online favorites of many people I've met for 
 a few almost unavoidable attacks.
  
  Sound:
  Sounds are a perfect arcade port, but music seems to lack it. I don't mean that it's not arcade 
 perfect, it is, I mean that it's just almost non existent to me. Mortal Kombat 2 seemed to do a 
 better job at that for me. Otherwise, the sound effects tie a good feeling around the big hits.
 
  
  Who wants this game?
  Anyone with an interest in old fighting games. It's the perfect port of Mortal Kombat 3 Ultimate, 
 and it shows in every way. Just make sure you have a friend.
  
  Extra note:
  I am doing this game a favor by ignoring puzzle kombat. It's a horrible and a random game of chance 
 that barley carries the MK name. Further more, I'm sure it's a rip off of some puzzle game out 
 there, not sure which one though. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: LocalMotion
Rating: 8
Date: Nov 19, 2007 3:57 pm PT
Review:  What can I say that others have not? Basically the game is great and plays real smooth. The great 
 thing about Mortal Kombat on the DS is that you can get into the game in no time. Unlike having 
 it for the psp where you will spend some time waiting for the game to load up. For me this is a 
 huge plus especially since I take the trian into work. 
  I don't know about other people but the game play is freak'n hard as hell for me haha even under 
 "Novice" mode. I wish there was a practice mode or something so that I can work out my combos but 
 eh, I'm just happy they came out with MK for the DS. 
  If you're a fan of the classic MK pick up this game I'm sure you'll enjoy it.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: macrules_640
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 30, 2008 9:47 am PT
Review:  As I speak I can't get the though of Mortal Kombat Advance out of my head that game was one of 
 the worst ports of Ultimate Mortal Kombat 3 on any system. But enough about that craptastic game 
 lets focus on Ultimate Mortal Kombat for the DS a game that finally gets a portable Mortal Kombat 
 game right. FIrst the good about the game, the controls are done really well for the DS and if 
 you owned UMK3 for the SNES than you'll fell right at home. It also includes Puzzle Kombat which 
 is nice and can be addictive if you have a friend with a DS as well. The good thing about UMK for 
 the DS is that it is an acrade port of UKM3 and all the characters are here and they have their 
 respective moves along with their finishing moves and friendships. The only thing missing from 
 this port of UMK3 is Noob Sabiot and Rain, but that really doesn't matter as they were joke characters 
 anyway. I am surprised they fit this much content on a DS cart and I think Midway did a good job 
 and if you want a good multiple player game that pick this one up because this game is good for 
 pick up and play or if you want a quick go. The only problems with this game I can seen is that 
 if you play it in single player the AI is still cheap as ever in the higher difficulties, but wait 
 there are not difficulty settings because it goes off the pillar you choose to fight in. Other 
 thing I noticed was they added a move sheet on the bottom or top screen for MK veterans or for 
 new players. I also noticed that some of the fatalities were easier to perform which is a good 
 thing since I couldn't remember all those button combos. To finish up if you looking for a good 
 fighting game then pick this up as it is a solid port and it's great for multiple player as well. 
 
  
  Graphics: 9
  Sound: 9 
  Gameplay:9
  Control: 9
  Fun Factor: 8.5 
::::::

::::::
UserName: KSMART800
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 18, 2007 6:32 pm PT
Review:  Ultimate Mortal Kombat is a nice edition to the fighting games for DS. In fact, probably the best 
 in my case. This game includes a remarkable, well done port of Ultimate Mortal Kombat 3. It also 
 includes a "mini game" to me called Puzzle Kombat. To great titles in one package.
  
  The port of UMK3 is quite good, expect for a little problems... The AI is cheap and quite hard, 
 which is harsh for begginers. They predict your every move as soon as you put it on the pad. The 
 gameplay is glitchy, for example, knocking a oppoponet threw something (or other way around) the 
 screen will become black for a second. Also, during endurance modes, a defeated oppoponet, before 
 it falls to its defeat can deliver a cheap move such as a blast. It's like tagging in and out! 
 However, the biggest selling point was wi-fi. There's like, a billion people wanting this game 
 and want to tear up the competiton. And there's no way like wi-fi. However, there is the occasially 
 lagg during matches based on locations. But its still alright in my book.
  
  Puzzle Kombat is a very fateful port of Deception's same mini-title. It has every aspect of the 
 game, including the unlockable characters. However, i think it should just be played to lose time 
 while doing something short.
  
  This title also includes every unlockable from both games. That means the 3 unlockable characters 
 and Shao Kahn's Lost Treasure's. Even the unlockable endings are included, which are capable of 
 viewing over and over after getting them. Puzzle Kombat's characters are also unlockable!
  
  To sum it up, this game is simply amazing. It has 2 titles in one, and unlockable bonus stuff 
 to keep you busy for quite the time. This game can last you up to 3 weeks or more based on your 
 UMK skills. The controls are easy to get use to because of the DS' 4 button layout. 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: dimension888
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 14, 2007 5:59 pm PT
Review:  Now I can kick anyones butt anywhere anytime and not get in trouble for it... 
  
  While this may be a game we've all played before, it's still really nice to be able to take it 
 with you anywhere you go. The graphics look good and the game play is just what you would expect... 
 awesome. 
  
  The puzzle fighter included in UMK is what you would expect: a simple but extremely addicting game 
 to play.
  
  I love this whole series and cannot wait until the next mortal kombat arrives on the PS3 and Xbox360 
 next fall... that will truly be the ultimate mortal kombat experience. 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: thefuse1032
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 14, 2007 8:09 am PT
Review:  to tell you the truth, i knew the game wasn't going to be a big change from the 3rd one, i mean 
 if they said it was going to be the the 3rd one I'm sure that is all there going to put on the 
 DS version. they have the puzzle kombat which is still fun, not a huge success but it is packed 
 in with the same good old MK3. listen, to break it down for you, if you like the old school MK 
 games then your going to love this. well worth the buy, just don't expect much of a change from 
 the original. This doesn't mean the game should get bad reviews because it is a port., its like 
 rating the game twice, old version and new version. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: metalheadbrian
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 13, 2007 10:53 pm PT
Review:  if you are searching for a good Fighting game for the DS your search is over Ultimate Mortal Kombat 
 DS is the game you need to get its a port of the arcade version and midway has done a great job 
 porting it on the DS the DS controls work very good combos and fatalities can be pulled off very 
 easy the controls are solid and so is the gameplay the onlineplay is awesome from what i have played 
 so far it works well sometimes you get match up with some one who has a bad internet connection 
 and get some lag but other then that the onlineplay works very good puzzle kombat can also be played 
 online Ultimate Mortal Kombat DS is a great Fighting game the best Fighting game for the DS 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: usagi704
Rating: 7
Date: Nov 13, 2007 7:48 pm PT
Review:  Ultimate Mortal Kombat for DS has arrived and it is a compilation of Ultimate Mortal Kombat 3 and 
 Puzzle Kombat from Mortal Kombat Deception and both are now on the go and still online.
  
  Anyone who is thinking about picking this up already knows what the draw is here: Ultimate Mortal 
 Kombat 3 on the go and with online multiplayer. Anybody else who wonders what the fuss is about 
 need not apply. Single player experience is non-existent too since the usual impossible to beat 
 CPU fighters after you win three times are back to read your mind once again. Puzzle Kombat is 
 back and is still online as well, but it is merely a slight diversion from the real game here and 
 is an uglier version of Super Puzzle Fighter II Turbo and less fun to play as well.
  
  As far as UMK3 online, it is easy to get into matches and you play the same opponent back to back 
 as many times as you want and as long as your network connection isn't being clogged up, latency 
 issues won't be too much of a problem.
  
  Conclusion: UMK3 online is the reason to get this and it controls well and performs admirably online 
 too. If that is what you are looking for, then be sure to pick it up! 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
