-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Unsolved Crimes
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/ds/action/unsolvedcrimes/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 Engaging series of murders to solve.
 Most of the puzzles are logical.
 Occasional action sequences and other activities lend a bit of variety.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 Multiple-choice contrivance makes investigations too simple.
 Suspect interrogation is conspicuously absent.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Oct 15, 2008
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 6
Critic Score: 6.4, 19 Review (s)
User Score: 7.1, 38 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Atari
Developer: Now Production
Genre: Modern Action Adventure
Date: Sep 30, 2008
ESRB: Teen

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
There's a series of interesting crimes to solve in this DS adventure, but uncovering the truth is 
 just too simple. 

  Of all the real-world careers around which to build an adventure game, none seems more logical 
 than that of a police detective. Rational, engaging puzzles are crucial to any enjoyable adventure, 
 so the act of piecing together clues and solving crimes ought to be a perfect fit for the genre. 
 Yet while many have tried, scant few games have managed to take the concept of detective work and 
 turn it into something compelling. Unsolved Crimes for the DS is the latest such attempt, and while 
 it's a competent effort, most gumshoes will wish that these criminal webs were a little more challenging 
 to untangle.  

           Your partner thinks about the cases really hard. Unfortunately, you'll rarely need to 
 think very hard about them yourself.      

  It's 1976, and you're a rookie detective with the NYPD's homicide division. Unsolved Crimes models 
 itself after cop shows of the era, establishing its style nicely with a cool title sequence that 
 makes use of appropriately dated video footage of the Big Apple and some quintessentially '70s 
 theme music. As the unnamed, unseen detective, you're partnered up with the young but experienced 
 Marcy Blake, working cases with her and following orders from the gruff but likable Captain Abbot. 
 The murders you investigate range from neat and tidy poisonings to truly grisly axe murders. Your 
 investigations also take you to a good variety of crime scenes, including a small suburban home, 
 a city park, and a fleabag motel.  

  Each case starts with a briefing in which Abbot fills you in on the known details of the murder. 
 Then, he sends you and Marcy off to the crime scene to get to the bottom of things. You're given 
 a few pieces of preliminary evidence, as well as a list of suspects and snippets of testimony concerning 
 their alibis or important details they may have witnessed. As you examine the crime scene -- viewing 
 it from a first-person perspective and tapping on details that you want to examine -- you'll discover 
 things that let you slowly deduce the facts behind the murder. The cases themselves are quite engaging. 
 Just slowly piecing things together to reveal the bigger picture -- who did it, how, and why -- is 
 rewarding for anyone who enjoys a mystery. But the game doesn't make the most of the material with 
 which it has to work. Although the cases get increasingly complex as you progress, the gameplay 
 doesn't.  

  More often than not, you deduce the facts of the crime by answering simple multiple-choice questions. 
 After coming across a particular detail at the crime scene or in your evidence collection, Marcy 
 asks you to point out an inconsistency in someone's testimony, for instance, or identify the way 
 evidence supports a certain theory of how the murder was committed. Then, you're presented with 
 four possible answers. Being observant and attentive to the particulars of the case is helpful, 
 but frequently, even if you haven't been paying much attention, it's easy to eliminate one or two 
 of the choices because they're just plain goofy. If you guess incorrectly one too many times, you'll 
 be unceremoniously kicked off the force, but this doesn't matter much. You can always pick up again 
 from that point, so it's entirely possible to just fumble your way through much of an investigation. 
 The game's take on detective work is a lot less engaging than it might have been because of the 
 simplicity of this gameplay contrivance.  

  Far less common but a lot more interesting are those moments in each case when you're not given 
 four options to choose from but must point to a specific piece of evidence, a detail of the crime 
 scene, or a snippet of testimony that's vital to advancing the investigation. It's in these more 
 challenging, intellectually stimulating moments that you feel more like a vital part of the investigation 
 and less like a student taking a simple quiz. On occasion, you may feel that there are a few equally 
 viable choices, and you'll wish you could just explain your thinking to Marcy as she calls you 
 a schmuck for making the wrong choice. But most of the time, there's a pretty sensible logic to 
 these moments that reward skills of observation and deduction. From time to time, you'll also get 
 to do such things as determine the trajectory of a bullet or conduct a simple physics experiment 
 that reveals a crucial detail of a crime scene. The one thing you never get to do, unfortunately, 
 is interrogate suspects. You're constantly answering questions but never asking them yourself. 
 When you consider that sweating details out of suspects is such a familiar part of so many cop 
 shows and detective novels, never getting to interact with suspects face-to-face here is a bit 
 disappointing.  

  Interspersed among the eight independent cases is an ongoing subplot about a kidnapping case that 
 involves very little in the way of investigation. Instead, these intervals bring about very simple 
 action sequences. At one point, you're involved in a car chase and must swerve left or right to 
 avoid debris as you pursue the escaping criminal. Later, there's a warehouse shootout in which 
 you must wait for thugs to pop out from behind cover and then tap them with the stylus to shoot. 
 There's nothing to these sequences that makes them worthy of revisiting, but they do lend a bit 
 of classic cop-movie action to the proceedings. And the game goes out strong, with a particularly 
 suspenseful final case that ties up some loose ends and makes good use of the touch screen.  

 
  Unsolved Crimes is unremarkable visually. The 3D crime scene environments aren't very impressive 
 to look at, but they do have enough little details and variety to make the act of exploring them 
 fun throughout. The character portraits for Marcy, Abbot, and others only have a handful of expressions 
 you'll see constantly repeat, but their realistic style fits well with the serious tone of the 
 game. The use of music is sparing, but it does help ground the game in the 1970s. The environmental 
 sound effects, such as the constant ringing of phones and clacking of typewriters at the police 
 station, also creates a sense that the game's world extends beyond the small areas you get to investigate. 

           The broken glass tells us one of four possible things about this crime. When in doubt, 
 guess C.      

  Unsolved Crimes' eight cases will probably take most players roughly an hour each, with the latter 
 cases being more involved than the earlier ones. There's no replay value here because once you've 
 solved the case, there's really nothing else to get out of the experience. The simplicity of the 
 overused multiple-choice structure to the investigations will leave most armchair detectives wanting 
 for something more involved, but even so, there's still enough murderous goodness here that mystery 
 aficionados may want to get to the bottom of these Unsolved Crimes.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (1 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: brandyinindiana
Rating: 8
Date: Oct 30, 2008 11:53 am PT
Review:  After attending a conference call for Unsolved Crimes last month, I had been eagerly awaiting my 
 chance to step into an interactive version of one of my favorite television genres  the ever-popular 
 crime drama. With shows like CSI and Law & Order: SVU being a couple of my favorites, I was definitely 
 a member of the target audience for Now and Empire's take on the genre, and I am happy to report 
 that the game has lived up to the vast majority of my expectations.
  
  Set in New York City in 1976, Unsolved Crimes places you in the role of the "never seen, only heard" 
 rookie detective, partnered alongside an experienced detective named Marcy Blake.
  
  You'll be led through each of the game's 13 levels by Captain Abbot, who spends a few moments at 
 the beginning of each case describing the preliminary evidence found by the street-cops before 
 your arrival, as well as introducing you to any suspects that may have presented themselves during 
 the initial investigation of the scene.
  
  From there, Marcy will escort you to the scene of the crime, where you'll begin your own investigation. 
 With crimes ranging from pretty standard murders to more complicated events like supposed B&E's 
 (breaking-and-entering) and suicides, you'll find yourself collecting items both commonplace (for 
 instance, notebooks and beverage bottles) and unique (fake fingernails and flower petals, as examples) .
 
  
  Movement is controlled either via the D-Pad or the stylus, depending on which you prefer, with 
 the stylus obviously granting you better control of your view. Played from a first person perspective, 
 you are given a camera slider with which to change your perspective from higher in the room (as 
 if you were standing) to lower in the room (as if you were crouching or bent over) . Furthermore, 
 you can change the view to literally any direction and angle you desire by simply tapping and dragging 
 on the touch screen until satisfied.
  
  Once you tap on an item in the room, Marcy will give you a quick rundown of its identification 
 and will automatically log anything that directly pertains to your case into evidence. That being 
 said, you can expect to be rejected on a lot of the items you tap on, with a standard "this item 
 has no significance" brush off that tells you to look elsewhere. While this does of course add 
 a lot of unneeded tapping to each scenario, it also adds more realism to each case, as real detectives 
 obviously make a living by deciphering what is important and what isn't.
  
  Once you start finding various pieces of the puzzle, Marcy will break in and quiz you as to their 
 significance. That is, finding a pile of broken glass may very well be important to solving the 
 case, but only if you can tell the game that you understand why. Each query is separated into various 
 multiple choice and fill-in-the-blank questions that, once answered correctly, tend to open up 
 a new chapter of the overall story. You'll also find yourself reporting back to Abbot at set intervals 
 throughout each case in order to debrief him on what you've learned so far.
  
  Having quizzes rely mostly on multiple choice questions lessens the difficulty level drastically, 
 often because some of the choices will be so absurd that they can be immediately eliminated. On 
 the other hand, in later cases, as the difficulty rises, some of the choices tend to be worded 
 poorly, causing you to miss them and have to start again after being reprimanded by your partner, 
 and/or boss.
  
  Now, even though at the beginning of the game, the multiple choice mechanic often finds itself 
 repeating items that you have already learned elsewhere, just to make sure you're keeping up, towards 
 the end of the game, you'll be almost entirely on your own in terms of hints, and will truly have 
 to figure out "whodunit" by your lonesome. This definitely adds an aspect of challenge both for 
 younger players and for those who aren't very observant, along with a true sense of accomplishment 
 and satisfaction once you've put the murderer behind bars.
  
  While the main portion of gameplay is presented in a case-to-case fashion, early on in the game, 
 Marcy's sister is kidnapped, and at random intervals throughout the rest of the title, your progress 
 will be interrupted in order to follow a new lead pertaining to her disappearance. These "interruptions" 
 are almost entirely different from standard cases, and provide for the majority of action within 
 the game.
  
  For instance, at one point you'll be tasked with swerving through a dark alley avoiding trash cans 
 and other debris as you try to catch a suspect's car, and in another instance, you'll find yourself 
 in a shootout with some hired thugs where you tap on each person to shoot them, all the while worrying 
 about your own susceptibility to shots and not running out of ammo. These instances are easily 
 the best in the game as they raise the excitement level 10-fold and are just downright fun. They 
 also include some of the best graphics found anywhere within the game.
  
  Overall the game displays a Hills Street Blues-like appearance, with dirty buildings, streets, 
 etc. along with the standard in stereotypical police dialogue. Each case begins with a dark and 
 moody cutscene, where all identifiable features have been removed (after all, what would be the 
 point in investigating a scene if you see who did it beforehand) , and are instead filled with gray 
 figures representing the persons involved.
  
  The game takes on an even darker look almost 3/4 of the way through, as a storm causes a blackout 
 in the city, with the "afterwards" being when the real "freaks" start to come out, leading to cases 
 revolving around gruesome dismemberment and decapitation, among others.
  
  As for the standard environments, most of the 3D crime scenes are nicely presented. Sure, some 
 of the smaller items in each location like tubes of lipstick or keys may lack specific details, 
 but overall the graphics do a fine job. As I said though, it's in the cutscenes that they shine.
 
  
  The sound department is also quite impressive. While most of the music is reserved for cutscenes 
 or the aforementioned driving / shoot-out levels, the entire game comes equipped with realistic 
 sound effects like ringing telephones and background chatter in the police station, along with 
 creaky door frames and the crunching of broken glass. When the background music plays however, 
 it is, like the rest of the game, quite moody and does a nice job of conveying the drama and tension 
 throughout the title.
  
  Overall, with the outcome of each case being set in stone, there is absolutely zero replayability 
 here, which is unfortunate to say the least. And while I am not one to normally read other reviews 
 for games, I have to admit that I did for this one, and am sad to say that I think I'm one of the 
 few who really liked the game for what it was, without trying to compare it to something greater.
 
  
  Sure, the graphics aren't as impressive as something you'd see on the 360 or PS3, but this is a 
 DS game after all, so it's absurd to expect the same quality. That being said, the inconsistency 
 of the difficulty level along with the lack of replayability does place the game in more of a rental 
 category than anything else. However, for those who do decide to make this a purchase, whether 
 a crime show junkie or not, there is plenty of entertaining gameplay here to keep you satisfied 
 for a few days. 
  
  Review part of GrrlGamer. com. Full review and screenshots at: http://www. grrlgamer. com/review. php? g=unsolvedcrimes 
 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
