-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Valkyrie Profile: Covenant of the Plume
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/ds/rpg/valkyrieprofiletogaoseoumono/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 Intriguing plot.
 Encourages conservative, strategic play.
 Good replay value.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 Overly lengthy battles.
 Sin requirement overshadows every mechanic.
 Numerous cheap maneuvers artificially raise difficulty.
 Steep learning curve.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Mar 20, 2009
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 6
Critic Score: 7.6, 21 Review (s)
User Score: 8.1, 103 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Square Enix
Developer: Tri-Ace
Genre: Fantasy Turn-Based...
Date: Mar 16, 2009
ESRB: Teen

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Covenant of the Plume is a tolerable, if undistinguished, strategy role-playing hybrid. 

  Valkyrie Profile: Covenant of the Plume is a unique strategy role-playing game with an intriguing 
 plot and a thrilling deviant slant. The focus is on slow, conservative play and distinctly separate 
 combat segments, which play out much like a standard RPG's battle sequences. However, the game 
 often feels laborious and restrictive, using a variety of cheap maneuvers and frequently coercing 
 you into restarting battles no matter how hard-fought the victory. Though its dark twist and separate 
 combat segments are novel concepts, their cumbersome execution makes this trip to Midgard especially 
 tedious.  

  The bloodthirsty storyline is fascinating, and there are multiple plot paths to explore. It follows 
 Wylfred, a young warrior who blames the famed valkyrie Lenneth for the destruction of his family. 
 Swearing revenge, Wylfred joins a mercenary group and is soon enlisted by a mysterious power to 
 slay the valkyrie. To do so, Wylfred must sacrifice beloved friends to satisfy the bloodlust of 
 the Battle Maiden's cursed plume -- the dark symbol of his covenant. Throughout the game you will 
 have to make pivotal decisions that will determine who you befriend and where the plot takes you, 
 and the multiple endings and 20 ally options offer good replay incentive.  

           Interesting allies and the plot's dark slant keep the storyline engaging.      

  Battles 
 are turn-based and occur on a 3D battlefield relegated to the bottom screen, while unit information 
 is displayed on the top. Your goal is to surround your foes in particular patterns to perform sieges, 
 which grant you bonuses, such as increased attack damage. In an interesting twist, ally positioning 
 and attack timing are at the forefront of combat, as countering enemies will keep you thinking 
 tactically. What's most unique about the battle system is that attacking a foe initiates a separate 
 combat sequence during which each team member is mapped to a face button. Pressing the appropriate 
 button when prompted times attacks so they increase an attack gauge, which in turn triggers impressive-looking 
 soul crush maneuvers that are as fun to employ as they are to watch. What's annoying is that this 
 combat delivery method drastically slows battles because of the multiple attacks you initiate each 
 round, the enemy attacks you're forced to watch, and the extensive countering.  

  One refreshing dynamic that's new to the series is the constant quest for blood to power the cursed 
 plume, which -- while pleasantly savage -- usually prevents you from playing how you want. Whenever 
 you sacrifice allies, or attack an enemy after its health points have depleted, you acquire bloodlust 
 for the plume, which counts toward a "sin" requirement for that stage. The sin scoring mechanic 
 intensifies battles because you permanently lose any ally you sacrifice, but it also adds tactical 
 value as you acquire vital skills from your fallen friends. Unfortunately, meeting the sin requirement 
 is so overemphasized that you're forced to make it your priority in every fight. Failing to achieve 
 enough sin will earn you a visit from outrageously overpowered assassins in a subsequent fight. 
 Reloading the game is usually preferable to endure these attacks, but that's exasperating in its 
 own right. Furthermore, you're unable to revisit previous battles for training, which makes the 
 game a lot less fun because it coerces you into sacrificing whenever you run into problems.  

 
  The game increases strategic play by focusing on skills and encouraging you to proceed cautiously 
 on the battlefield. Skills, such as the ability to paralyze most foes, become the cornerstone of 
 any tactical plan, as you're harshly restricted to bringing only four characters to a battle. Unfortunately 
 you don't get to scout the field ahead of time, so there's no chance for you to adequately prepare 
 by choosing the right lineup, and you can't exchange allies during fights. Instead of splitting 
 large units into segments or traversing the battlefield with lone units to achieve victory, in 
 Covenant of the Plume you need to play more conservatively to keep your small team together and 
 alive. At times it feels like the focus is more on avoiding counterattacks and meeting the sin 
 requirement than on actually winning the battle. This unusual combat focus heightens the learning 
 curve and further extends the battle length, and while it can be aggravating it certainly poses 
 a unique challenge.  

           Look cool performing powerful soul crush maneuvers to slaughter foes.      

  While 
 Covenant of the Plume shows plenty of potential, it artificially raises the difficulty level by 
 harshly restricting or punishing you, which cheapens the experience and culminates in grueling 
 fights. Often you're forced to fight back-to-back battles without an opportunity to save your game 
 or stock up on supplies, so you're forced to repeat fights if you should lose a later battle or 
 fail to meet a sin requirement, which is infuriating. A quick-save option is included, but it's 
 not quick at all because it exits you to the title screen every time you use it. The AI, though 
 normally intelligent, frequently throws intended rescue targets into dire situations that often 
 result in their deaths, forcing you to reload by no fault of your own. Status effects seem a little 
 too strong and stick frequently, which may cause you to lose a few battles from underhanded status 
 ailments and poor luck, another needless vexation.  

  The 3D battlefields are nicely detailed, as are the character sprites. Spell and ability effects 
 have plenty of graphical flash, the pinnacle being the exciting soul crush maneuvers. The music 
 is largely reused from the original Valkyrie Profile but feels scaled-down and a little generic. 
 Voices are absent from cutscenes, though that's perhaps no bad thing given the average quality 
 of the characters' battle quips, and some sound effects -- like laughter or monster growls -- sound 
 cheesy and fake.  

  The game contains five chapters and is roughly 10 to 15 hours long, which is relatively short for 
 the genre. Losing battles, failing to gain sin, and unlocking a bonus dungeon can all extend the 
 experience considerably, though they test your patience in the process. Valkyrie Profile: Covenant 
 of the Plume should satisfy fans and those looking for a unique strategy RPG, but you're probably 
 better off avoiding its harsh, punishing nature and arduous gameplay.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (5 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: Shirokani
Rating: 8.5
Date: Apr 3, 2009 5:52 pm PT
Review:  The reason I have deemed Valkyrie Profile: Covenant of the Plume worthy of an 8.5 score is somewhat 
 influenced by the main game's dark storyline and Destiny Plume concept, but mainly so because of 
 the Seraphic Gate. Overall the game had great graphics, voice acting, and the special attacks (or 
 "PWS" as some VP veterans would say) were as amazing as ever.
  
  I do not need to compose a list for the main game, as that was covered by the gamespot review team 
 already and they did a much better job than I could have.
  
  The Seraphic Gate is a series of battles that follows a pattern around two types of battles: one 
 with normal enemies and one where there is a boss in addition. The pattern goes like this: boss 
 --  normal --  boss --  normal and repeats itself.
  
  [Pro]
  -Dialogue before each boss battle is usually random and funny
  -Player starts with all 20 characters 
 in the main game at level 1
  -Player can collect many extra characters by defeating bosses
  -Player can save at any time in between battles
  -"Withdraw" command in between battles allows 
 player to return to the beginning of the SG if they need to train
  -Shop has most items found in the main game
  -The Hamster enemy returns!
  
  [Con]
  -Only 
 environment change is color
  -Player starts with almost no items
  -Can take some time to earn enough OTH to buy equipment and skill books
  -Destiny plume concept 
 is gone, but this ensures no characters are lost
  
  Because of the Seraphic Gate, I will most likely never touch the main game again. Though grinding 
 can be very boring at times, the experience remains fresh with the randomness of dialogue and extra 
 characters to collect. The main game wasn't too bad, and I felt that the SG was a nice reward for 
 enduring the faults that came before it. I highly recommend Valkyrie Profile: Covenant of the Plume 
 to anyone who enjoys rpg/srpg games. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: poohbear12
Rating: 8
Date: Mar 27, 2009 8:39 am PT
Review:  You awaken, an orphan, both parents dead at the hand of an evil overlord who threatens to take 
 over the world. So, you set out in search of revenge, and save the world in the process, gathering 
 a colorful group of companions who fight with you on the way, joking and joshing as you go.
  
  No... wait... that's every other JRPG released since FF1. Valkyrie Profile takes the RPG story 
 down a darker path here, leading to a much more interesting experience.
  
  Yes, your father was killed (and sister starved to death as a result) , leaving your mother old 
 and senile. But the slayer is one of the Gods, and your method of revenge involves befriending 
 a large cohort of folks to fight on your side against the foes in your way. The twist is, in order 
 to beat said god involves you building up your god-slaying strength by befriending then betraying 
 your companions on the battlefield, by granting them super-strength for the one battle, followed 
 by their dying without understanding why.
  
  It is a darker morbid take on the RPG genre, and it is a lot of fun. It does not have the somewhat 
 lighter feel of a Suikoden, nor is it an 'easy' RPG, since there is little grinding to be done. 
 Instead, the game involves a great deal of strategizing, as each battle consists of enemies who 
 are many times more powerful than you, requiring you to think out each move or suffer the consequences. 
 If you have a head for ganging up on and overkilling, it's not as bad as some make it seem. But 
 more than once you will likely find yourself re-playing a lost level, at least as you approach 
 the endgame. 
  
  It is dark, challenging, strategic, and a good time if you understand that many of your characters 
 will die, ,that dying and re-spawning is just part of the game and is often used as part of a winning 
 strategy, and that the game was meant to be played more than once (keeping items and skills with 
 each replay) so don't expect a cake-walk the first time through. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: red24
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 20, 2009 1:00 pm PT
Review:  For those who don't know: the Valkyrie Profile is a game about a man (Wylfred) who wants to revenge 
 his father (Thyodor) by killing a Valkyrie (an 'angel' sent by the God to choose fallen warriors, 
 who's souls will serve him in the Ragnarok) . In order to it, he has to sacrifice all that is dear 
 to him. No, this time you won't be saving the world from demons, apocalypse or mega corporation.
 
  
  If you can lead a vengeful warrior into battle, overkill your enemies and sacrifice your friends, 
 then you should definitely check this title.
  
  A few thing about the game-play. You control up to 4 characters (one always has to be Wyl) , who 
 you command on a battlefield. The fighting system is turn-based; just like in numerous iterations 
 of Final Fantasy Tactics Advance. As always, you can attack with weapons, cast spells & apply tactics 
 (some kind of spells) . A very important part of the game is positioning of your characters - this 
 is because you have to fight as one, and attack the enemy with maximum possible number of allies. 
 That is, because this way you will be able to perform super attacks (called Soul Crushes) and gain 
 sin. Sin is basically an amount of overkill damage you dealt to your foes. While overkill is the 
 damage that suppressed your enemy's base health - in other words: when you dealt 150 damage to 
 enemy that had only 100 hp, then you gained 50 sin points. Sin is quite important as you will have 
 to gain a fixed amount of it each fight.
  
  Graphics and music are quite nice, but I didn't find anything outshining most of the DS titles. 
 Those two elements simply fit the game - music is creating the expected atmosphere, while graphics 
 are nice and 'clean'.
  
  Valkyrie Profile: Covenant of the Plume is a great piece of cRPG that is as similar as it is different 
 among other cRPGs. Definitely check this title out, if you can. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: f3191
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 19, 2009 4:40 pm PT
Review:  When I first saw the previews for Valkyrie Profile: Covenant of the Plume, I thought this game 
 would be a piece of cake, I was very wrong.
  
  First I will say that the creators of this game did an excellent job with the graphics portion 
 of this game, quite a bit of detail and excellent sprite animation. The music is nice, but nothing 
 spectacular.
  
  The game play for this game is actually very fascinating, I have actually never seen a battle system 
 like this (but I also never played a Valkyrie series) . The fact that each character is controlled 
 by either X, Y, A, and B definitely allows some control.
  
  The downside to this game is how difficult the battles can be, in fact some of the enemies are 
 way stronger than the original characters you place into battle. And yet there is no true solution 
 to evening the playing field since you can't randomly train your players before you attempt the 
 main mission.
  
  I would highly recommend this game to all decent to hardcore RPG fanatics, just remember it's not 
 as easy as it seems. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: desperado2503
Rating: 8
Date: Mar 18, 2009 5:58 pm PT
Review:  It's awesome, unexpectedly awesome. The game for a cartridge offers you some hours.. of entertainment 
 with this game.
  
  So if you played Valkyrie Profile 1 (The psp version counts it's the same game with 3d movies) 
 you won't see nothing too much of novelty but nonetheless the VP battle system can be basic & complex 
 at the same time, also the special attacks are awesome & the voices are sweet, if you remembered 
 the VP1's voices when a character performed a special attack then you can expect the same caliber 
 of good voice actors performing it... it's cool.
  
  & well i don't want to add some stuff because it could be considered as spoiler & i don't want 
 to ruin it for you (the reader) . If you're tired, pumped, meh'd from GTA chinatown wars... i suggest 
 you to buy this title, you'll love it.
  
  
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
