-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Viewtiful Joe: Double Trouble!
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/ds/action/viewtifuljoe/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 Superb graphics capture the trademark Viewtiful Joe style.
 Excellent soundtrack keeps the action moving.
 Unique VFX powers take full advantage of the touch screen.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 Touch screen is imprecise and awkward to use at first.
 Scenes get repetitive later in the game.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Nov 17, 2005
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 7.6
Critic Score: 7.6, 34 Review (s)
User Score: 7.9, 492 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Capcom
Developer: Clover Studio
Genre: Beat-'Em-Up
Date: Nov 18, 2005
ESRB: Teen

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Viewtiful Joe remains true to form in his handheld debut, while showing off some fun and unique 
 new moves using the DS touch screen. 

  Viewtiful Joe has become quite the star since his debut just a few short years ago. The brightly-dressed 
 superhero has already headlined in a handful of games on consoles and in his own animated television 
 show, and now he's hamming it up on Nintendo's handheld with the release of Viewtiful Joe: Double 
 Trouble. The game has all the trappings of a Viewtiful Joe product, with loads of style, cheesy 
 one-liners, not-so-subtle movie spoofs, and plenty of special effects and over-the-top action. 
 However, since this is a DS game, you can expect to see some new and inventive features that make 
 use of the system's touch screen. The implementation isn't quite seamless, and it can be frustrating 
 at times, but the touch screen features do give you a few more ways to interact with enemies and 
 environments. As a result, Double Trouble takes a much more puzzle-focused approach to the standard 
 side-scrolling beat-'em-up formula.  

          Viewtiful Joe has picked up some fancy new moves for his handheld debut.     

  The 
 story is predictable for a Viewtiful Joe game: A bad guy appears and announces some nefarious scheme, 
 and Joe zealously sets off through half a dozen movie-themed worlds to save the day and look cool 
 while doing it. Double Trouble takes place in a theme park called Movieland. As Captain Blue wraps 
 up his latest film, a group of sinister villains known as Madow show up and snatch the film. Joe's 
 little sister, Jasmine, an aspiring actress, sets off to get the film back, and Joe follows her 
 to make sure she doesn't get into too much trouble. Of course, as the subtitle implies, trouble 
 is everywhere. Joe has to fight through six different worlds within the Movieland theme park, beating 
 up enemies, taking out bosses, and solving puzzles. There is a brief sequence where you get to 
 play as Jasmine, but for the most part you play as Joe.  

  That isn't a bad thing, though, since Joe has quite an array of super moves and special VFX powers 
 that make him capable of dealing with just about any situation. As in previous Viewtiful Joe games, 
 you can punch, kick, double-jump, and dodge. That's all fun on its own, but the best part of the 
 game is the VFX powers. You can slow down time to get the drop on your enemies and improve your 
 reaction time. This allows you to knock bullets and missiles back at enemies, send bad guys flying 
 across the screen with a superpowerful punch, and dodge enemy attacks.  

  In addition to slowing time, Viewtiful Joe has a few new tricks up his skintight spandex sleeve 
 this time around. Scratch, split, and slide are all new powers that require you to use the DS touch 
 screen. By hitting the R button once, you can activate scratch power, which lets you move your 
 finger across the screen to cause the scene to shake. This is used to drop items on enemies and 
 manipulate pieces of the environment. Split allows you to split the screen in half horizontally, 
 and you can drag the top half of the screen left and right. Using this you can sort of temporarily 
 rearrange the level to suit your needs. For example, you can drag a gushing water pipe over a fire 
 to extinguish the flames, making it safe for you to pass. By dragging your finger vertically from 
 the bottom to the top of the screen, you can activate the slide power, which makes the two screens 
 swap places. This works like a zoom feature, since the top screen usually displays a close-up shot 
 of what's happening on the bottom screen. By switching screens in the right spots, you can activate 
 switches that you can manipulate by touching the screen. You'll have to throw levers, twist dials, 
 and push buttons this way. All of these VFX powers drain your VFX gauge, but the gauge is constantly 
 recharged, and you can purchase a power-up to make it recharge even faster.  

          Double Trouble focuses more on puzzle-solving than on combat, although you'll still get 
 to beat the crap out of plenty of bad guys.     

  You'll have to get used to switching between the touch screen and the buttons, because the game 
 makes extensive use of the VFX powers. It isn't as awkward as you might think, though, and for 
 the most part the VFX powers are pretty fun to play around with. However, there are times when 
 the screen just doesn't seem to register your inputs correctly. Also, since there are multiple 
 powers that use the touch screen, you have to make your movements fairly precise or you might end 
 up using the wrong VFX power. When you're moving your finger around on the screen to use the scratch 
 power, it's easy to accidentally activate one of the other powers instead. The lack of precision 
 with the touch screen and the lack of tactile feedback make the VFX controls feel a bit awkward 
 at first, but once you get the hang of them, the touch screen powers are pretty fun to use, and 
 the game is built to take advantage of that fact. This design is made too apparent, though, and 
 as a result, the puzzles aren't very challenging. Each time you enter a new scene, the camera does 
 a fly-through to show you exactly what you need to do to progress to the next area. As if that 
 weren't enough, there are also cues placed on all the interactive parts of your surroundings to 
 tell you which of the VFX powers you need to use. Even without the cues, anyone familiar with Viewtiful 
 Joe will be able to spot the solutions to the puzzles fairly quickly.  

  Although they're fun in the beginning, the puzzles do start to look a bit familiar later in the 
 game. The stages get in a bit of a rut where you enter a scene, fight two or three enemies, solve 
 a puzzle, and move on to the next scene to do the same thing all over again. This is fun for a 
 while, but after playing the first few levels, you might start to feel like you're repeating yourself. 

  The six levels in the game each have a theme based on a popular movie. The stages are all unique, 
 and they're full of little bits of detail that really add to the fantastic look of the game. There 
 are also a couple of great spoofs that you'll spot right away, like a section with obvious references 
 to Resident Evil. The stages are all colorfully designed, and they're as fun to play around in 
 as they are to look at. The visual detail in the level design is carried throughout the rest of 
 the game as well. The characters look great and animate every bit as well as their console counterparts. 
 The flame, water, and electricity effects are a bit pixilated, but they don't detract from the 
 overall style and quality of the visuals. To top it off, the game runs at a consistently smooth 
 frame rate, even when the action is at its most intense.  

          The one-of-a-kind Viewtiful Joe style translates perfectly to the small screens.     

 
  The sound in Double Trouble is every bit as stylized as the look. Joe has a couple of spoken phrases, 
 like his trademark "Henshin a go-go baby!" All of the story sequences are subtitled, though, so 
 don't expect too much in the way of dialogue. The game doesn't suffer much from the lack of voice-over, 
 and the dialogue is every bit as campy and fun as in previous Viewtiful Joe games. The soundtrack 
 is made up of the same type of upbeat rock tunes that have been with the series all along. It sounds 
 great, and it fits the mood of the game perfectly. The rest of the sound is made up of the usual 
 smacks and whooshes that accompany Joe as he pummels foes and jumps between platforms.  

  Viewtiful Joe: Double Trouble is a good place for the beloved superhero to break into handheld 
 games. The action is familiar enough to appeal to fans, but thanks to the inclusion of the touch 
 screen features, it's also different enough to offer an entirely new experience. There are only 
 six levels, so you can easily burn through the game in a few hours, but you can always try it again 
 on a higher difficulty. The action and puzzle-solving do feel a bit repetitive at times, and the 
 touch screen VFX powers take a bit of getting used to, but the fun moments are plentiful enough 
 to make this game worthy of adding to your collection, especially if you're a fan of previous Viewtiful 
 Joe games.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (38 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: King_Of_Pwn
Rating: 7.5
Date: Sep 25, 2008 1:37 pm PT
Review:  Well were do I start? Viewtiful Joe: Double Trouble is a good game, not really good, not great, 
 just good. First let me point out the faults.
  
  Number one, going into the next area (not scene) is very annoying every time you move to the next 
 screen they make you wait five seconds while the camera makes you look at the way the area looks 
 like. This can get very annoying as they do it EVERY time.
  
  Another thing is that the puzzle aspect of the series is almost gone in this game, every time you 
 are required to use a VFX power there are huge letter next to the object advertising which you 
 need to use. That ruins it a little, but its not really major.
  
  Next, only the VFX power SLOW will give you any V-Points when used. Scratch, Slide, and Split do 
 not award any points. 
  
  And the last fault I'm going to point out is that the game is a bit repetitive. Each time its you 
 going through a few areas, then facing the boss, there's no switch ups.
  
  Now before you decide to forget about this game, I'm going to tell you that if you like the series 
 or just games that are fun, check out the good things below.
  
  First off, the game still captures all of the V-Joe goofiness, all of the movie drama and theme, 
 all of the quirkeness, and Henshin a Go Go Baby! On your little portable DS.
  
  Next is the new powers, scratch, which allows you to shake the screen in order to make things fall 
 that you need, or random objects fall on bad guys. Split, which allows you to cut the screen horizontally 
 to get things that are out of your reach or impossible to access. Slide is generally the same as 
 the "Zoom In" power in most V-Joe games. These are all fun to use depite not receiving points from 
 using them.
  
  The game also does well to introduce new characters such as Joe's little sister Jasmine. And several 
 new bosses and enemies.
  
  Another thing I will praise is the games graphics, despite being on a small DS screen the games 
 graphics are great and still bring in the good Cel-shaded look that the other games have.
  
  There are also tons of little things that are cool and most people will like.
  
  Closing 
 thoughts: If your a fan of the series, pick it up, if not rent it first. But either way you might 
 want to because it's an ABSOLUTE STEAL at 7.99 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bull_plop
Rating: 8.7
Date: Jul 30, 2007 6:42 am PT
Review:  This game is highly addictive and just plain fun to play to be honest. the touch screen controls 
 are sometimes awkward to use, but the puzzles can be quite clever, just like on the gamecube.
 
  the graphics are really good for the ds and are on par with the gamecube [obviously not as good, 
 but they do more than enough to keep me happy haha] . the cutscenes are smooth and brilliant to 
 watch, but its not joes voice, its little subtitles = [
  The sounds are fine, bouncy music and good crunching punches and kicks to be heard. The gameplay 
 is the best part, the controls are very fluent most of the time, and stringing combo after combo 
 never gets boring especially when you end up slow mo kicking someone and the get launched across 
 the screen =P
  Overall, its great fun, but just disappointing about the length of the story, dont let that put 
 you off, its still worth it 
::::::

::::::
UserName: linkrul3s
Rating: 7.9
Date: Jul 4, 2007 2:07 pm PT
Review:  This game is fun but it gets sorta' repetitive. Well lets jump into the reviewing.
  
  Gameplay: The gameplay is like most games in it's series except it is sorta hard to do unless you 
 have 3 hands.
  
  Graphics: The graphics are really good. The only problem is that it is hard to tell what somethings 
 are.
  
  Sound: The sound could have been a lot better... 'nuff said. It is the same repetitive thing played 
 over again and again.
  
  Value: Once you beat the game chances are that it won't be played again. The game is also really 
 cheap.
  
  Tilt: This game is really good past its few setbacks. I reccomend that you rent it. If you like 
 it buy it. If you don't then be glad that you didn't buy it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: peacebringer
Rating: 9
Date: May 30, 2007 6:31 pm PT
Review:  Viewtiful joe was a GC game. It really was something refreshing giving the 2d beatem up a 3d look. 
 Double Team for the DS is almost as good if not better than the original. First it's in your hands. 
 Second the Puzzle Solving is much better in this one than the GC and PS2 versions.
  
  You start off with Blue making his last movie , as he's doing a scene joe pops in to steal his 
 Part and save them from a car. they yell cut and ask what was joe doing , he was mad that he's 
 not having a part in the movie. They discover someone is trying to sabotage the set, so Joe goes 
 off to kick some booty.
  
  The graphics are great and are very close to the GC visuals minus everything isn't as good looking 
 ofcourse. but the style is still there and the cell shaded look works great. there is some slowdown 
 on some parts but it's not how many enemys more of what area and how many enemys.
  
  the Music makes it feel like a comic book , cartoon vibe and suits the game really good
  
  
 The difficulty in VJ has always been the strong points the game. I love a game thats challenging 
 but not impossible and VJ is about that. with some practice you should be able to clear this game 
 .
  
  i suggest anyone with a DS get this game it'll be a great game to add to your collection. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: FelisLeo1980
Rating: 8.7
Date: Mar 27, 2007 11:17 am PT
Review:  Viewtiful Joe Double Trouble! gives a great first impression and soon youll realize, that the 
 game has a very repetitive structure in it. This game is more about puzzle solving than combat.
 
  
  In a theme park called Movieland a bad guy shows up and steals Captain Blues latest movie. Of 
 course its up to Joe and a couple of other characters to get that reel of film back. Story is 
 told both with text and voice acting, but mostly text. This is a good thing, because in the very 
 first Viewtiful Joe on GameCube the voice acting was so bad that it was hard to follow the story. 
 That just isnt a problem anymore.
  
  Graphics look pretty much identical to Joe&acute; s previous console games and in DS its absolutely 
 great. Backgrounds contain lots of details and the use of colors makes this game just pure eye 
 candy. Music is also good and varied boosting the action even more. Sound effects on the other 
 hand are exactly as you remember them in previous Viewtiful Joe games, so theres nothing new here.
 
  
  Gameplay leans very heavily on puzzle solving instead of combat like in other Viewtiful Joe games. 
 In my opinion this is a good thing, because I hated the combat in the first game on GameCube and 
 Nintendo DS is better suited for puzzle solving. Structure of the game is very repetitive: you 
 enter a room, beat a couple of bad guys, solve a puzzle and move on to the next room. Thats it: 
 you do that same thing over and over again. Luckily the puzzles are varied taking good advantage 
 of DS&acute; s touch screen and the environments look great. This means that Viewtiful Joe Double 
 Trouble! is at its best when played in small doses.
  
  There are checkpoints after every room in the game and youll also get a chance to save your progress 
 very regularly. This makes sure that there is no chance of getting too frustrated. You can also 
 buy upgrades between save points so there is a little of RPG elements here too.
  
  While the puzzles are many and varied the game is pretty strict on how you use the stylus. Its 
 very easy to launch a wrong V-power when youre trying to do something fast. Fortunately this is 
 not a problem very often, but youll definitely notice it especially when you need to perform combat 
 moves with the face buttons and solve a puzzle with the stylus in rapid succession.
  
  Since I didnt enjoy previous Viewtiful Joe games this is in my opinion the best in the series. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DOA_Syndrome67F
Rating: 7.9
Date: Nov 17, 2006 6:33 pm PT
Review:  Viewtiful Joe: Double trouble is a good game, don't get me wrong. it's just not good enough. See 
 why. Story (reviewer's tilt) : You are Joe... Viewtiful Joe... cool huh? well it's not all fun and 
 games when someone get's hurt! and that's the civilians!!! the whole thing is basically just a 
 movie with a little spirituality and people coming from heaven (no spoiling plots) . But in the 
 end, the story is a MOVIE. Gameplay: The game is just plain fun when it comes to the fighting aspect. 
 There are powers that Joe has which enhances the fighting experience. Not much else good or bad, 
 but the gameplay is something worth checking out. Graphics: The graphics are nice and clean for 
 a DS and is all in 3D Cel shading. It's actually really well done. There are a couple camera glitches 
 though that really stick out. Sound: The music is mediocre and only a little annoying when it comes 
 to trying to get through puzzles. The sound effects are better and well recorded. These 2 round 
 each other out and create balance for a nice little average score. Value: The game falls flat on 
 it's face for value. There is absolutely nothing to do after beating the game except for beating 
 it again... and again...
  
  Final: 7.9 out of Average 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Dinoracha
Rating: 7.8
Date: Nov 7, 2006 9:49 pm PT
Review:  As the Viewtiful Joe series gains in strength over the years, the need for better content is always 
 in demand. With DT (Double Trouble for short) , the use of the Touch Screen brought new innovations 
 with the always entertaining VFX powers, as with the new Split, Swap, and Scratch powers, and the 
 surprisingly good audio quality on the handheld blew my mind. However, since not on the more graphic-friendly 
 console, most of the gameplay/graphics fell slightly short for the DS. For one, the graphics felt 
 a bit 'pushed' in order to fit the game-play, making things appear a bit too 'crisp' looking for 
 the Viewtiful Joe world. Secondly, the button configuration, and activation of powers felt a bit 
 awkward to use, especially in heated fights. On another downside, the lack of voice-acting in the 
 game brought me disappointment. Although we get Joe's signature call, no voice-acting is done for 
 the cut-scene's. To make a long story short, Viewtiful Joe Double Trouble is still another entertaining 
 addition, making its home in the DS world. However not as compelling as others, its still a good 
 choice for those itching for more cartoony beat-em-ups, and is a good-start for new folks to the 
 series. All in all; 7.9.
  Henshin A Go-Go, Baby! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GeekyDad
Rating: 8.4
Date: Oct 24, 2006 4:45 am PT
Review:  I never did play any of the console iterations of Viewtiful Joe. Id heard they were quite difficult, 
 and to be honest Ill take fun over difficulty any day of the week and twice on Sundays. However, 
 it was my understanding that Double Trouble (DT) toned down the difficulty level to make room for 
 more puzzle-oriented gameplay that made extensive use of the touch screen. Many folks felt that 
 DT offered little or no challenge  therefore I knew Id found my in for the franchise. When 
 someone says a game is easy, thats usually a good indication that it will be just my speed. I 
 was right, and Double Trouble has been a really Viewtiful ride!
  
  Story: Let me share with you my impressions of the games story as if youve never played any Viewtiful 
 Joe games before  I hadnt  and you may very well have not either. Joe, the main playable character, 
 comes down to check out the scene of a new movie, starring his sister Jasmine. Annoyed by Joes 
 presence, Jasmine precipitates a scuffle, and while the two are wrestling around an evil-enemy 
 group, known as the Madow, come along and steal the movie tape. Joe, seeing an opening for stardom, 
 transforms into his Viewtiful self, and proceeds to attempt to track down the baddies and save 
 the day.
  
  The gameplay is comprised of 6 chapters, and there are cut-scenes littered throughout that keep 
 the story moving along. Its a fun, funny story, and its unique qualities fit all the other unique 
 aspects of the game. However, even for a game this satirical the ending is pretty goofy and perhaps 
 slightly inconsistent with the rest of the story. But the last few seconds are pretty hilarious.
 
  
  Gameplay: I still cannot quite believe just how little attention this wonderful DS title has received 
 and continues to receive. Folks looking for a game that really shows off what the DS is all about, 
 need  not should, but need  to get this game. Whether youve ever played a Viewtiful Joe (VJ) 
 title before or not is neither here nor there. I never did, and I cant imagine it being more fun 
 if I had.
  
  Viewtiful Joe: Double Trouble (VJDT) is kind of a beat `em up game. But the fighting is more 
 like popcorn during a movie  its tasty and fun to eat while watching  but not necessarily the 
 main attraction. Movies are probably a great metaphor for describing this game too, since the entire 
 theme is based on The Movies. Joe travels throughout Movieland, a theme park modeled after the 
 hits, and its the games puzzle elements, which he must navigate through, that really make up 
 the star power in this title (Capcom) .
  
  Lets begin with the basics
  
  Joe can punch (X-button) , kick (A-button) and jump (B-button) . But hes also Viewtiful. What does 
 that mean? Henshin-a-go-go, baby! VFX powers are what set VJ apart from your average run-of-the-mill 
 super hero. With the L-button, Joe can Slow down time. This allows him to dodge fast-moving objects 
  or even punch them back at enemies  and also increases his attack power, as well as giving him 
 other incredible advantages. The Slow power will come into play often, and using it in conjunction 
 with other VFX powers will be absolutely necessary to get past certain areas of the game.
  
  So, let me give you a rundown of all the other VFX powers:
  
  Scratch: This power allows 
 Joe to rain down various heavy objects upon his foes. By triggering the R-button and then using 
 your fingernail to scratch the touch screen, you can knock out multiple enemies, as well as move 
 certain objects that might impede your way.
  
  Slide: Joe and his surroundings appear on both screens. A close-up view stays on the top screen 
 during most of the gameplay, and a more full view of the environment, which is where youll be 
 watching the action most of the time, stays on the touch screen That is until you need to get 
 a closer look at things. Using your fingernail once again, you can Slide the top view down to 
 the touch screen. Certain areas require this action in order to engage a switch or lever. Also, 
 only by using Slide can you defeat certain enemies. (Touch, also considered a VFX power, is actually 
 more a part of Slide, since youll only use it while using Slide. Once Slide is initiated you can 
 touch various areas of the screen to engage certain mechanisms or eliminate foes.)
  
  Split: I saved the best for last. Other than Slow, youll probably be using Split more than any 
 other VFX power, and it is incredibly clever how it has been integrated into the gameplay. What 
 Split allows you to do is to actually split the touch screen in half and move the top portion of 
 the touch screen to the left or right. It might not sound terribly interesting at first, but when 
 you experience how its used within the actual gameplay you cant help but smile at the amazing 
 amount of creativity that went into the concept. If theres a fire blocking your way, try splitting 
 the screen to make an area of flowing water go over the fire and put it out. Having trouble getting 
 to the next room  no door? Split the screen, moving the top part of the wall over and out of your 
 way, and then jump over the split wall into the next room. Its a tremendous amount of fun to experience 
 all the various ways that this particular VFX power has been incorporated.
  
  So there you have it  the basic ingredients. But its when theyre combined together that the 
 game shines like a diamond. One puzzle requires you to punch an object into the air, slow time, 
 split the screen so that the mid-air object lands on top of another object, and only by doing this 
 can you progress through the level. There are loads of great brain teasers like that one, planted 
 within the action, that make for quite an exciting time.
  
  Yeah, there are one or two platforming elements that are a bit annoying  not because theyre cleverly 
 difficult -- but because theyre unnecessarily difficult due to the 3D perception of the platforms 
 themselves. However, barring a few scant instances, the game plays like a dream. Some folks whove 
 played DT have commented that the combination of face buttons and touch controls make the gameplay 
 cumbersome and / or clunky. But I think thats where the difficulty factor of this game comes 
 in. It takes some time to get used to maneuvering properly, but once you get the hang of it its 
 smooth sailing.
  
  Graphics: A really nice job in this department. IGN, when they did their review of the game, said 
 Double Trouble offered the best graphics on the system (at the time) . I dont know if this game 
 represents the best in visual quality for the system, but its definitely up there with the top 
 contenders. In-game graphics are awesome, and everything animates very smoothly. The environments 
 are full of vibrant colors that help give the VJ series its flare, and the whole Viewtiful thing 
 is like a Mardi Gras explosion with Skittle confetti.
  
  Sound: The music is really quite cool. Its sort of a techno-heavy metal, but there are also plenty 
 of other themes that play throughout the game, adding contextual suspense to those areas. However, 
 what really supes up the actual enjoyment of gameplay are the sound effects. When you collect 
 V-coins (the currency of the game) or other items, you get these really awesome, old arcade-sounding 
 effects. Plus, theres nothing like hearing Joe blurt out his signature Henshin-a-go-go, baby! 
 at the beginning of each level. Even as a new-comer I was well familiar with his schtick, and its 
 pretty darn entertaining. The enemies too make neat sounds, especially in slow motion, and there 
 are short voice-overs for most of the other significant characters sprinkled throughout the game.
 
  
  Presentation: Double Trouble does a lot of things right in this area. It also lacks a bit in this 
 area. What it does right is it gives you 10 slots to save on. It also offers a fully detailed, 
 color manual. Its nice to see 3rd-party publishers follow Nintendos fine example by offering 
 a high-quality instruction booklet. Some folks *cough  Konami  cough* seem to never print their 
 DS-game manuals in color. Another treat is that throughout the game you earn V-points, either from 
 collecting V-coins from defeated enemies, or by your overall performance throughout a level. You 
 can then use those V-points to buy new moves, added health, or other goodies in the Power-Up section.
 
  
  Where Double Trouble left me wanting more (or something else entirely) :
  
  1. It would have been nice to have the option to go back and replay completed levels, either to 
 increase your performance or just for fun.
  2. The cut-scenes are pretty cool, and the way theyre implemented is very creative. However, you 
 have little control over the progression of the text, and the sentence structure is very disjointed. 
 For example, one caption (captions are done comic-book style) might have almost all of the sentence 
 text within it, and then the very last word (s) is saved for the next caption  not for dramatic 
 effect either. You have to kind of see it to know what Im talking about, but it breaks up the 
 flow of what the characters are sometimes trying to express. Also during the presentation you are 
 most times required to press the A-button to progress to the next portion of the cut-scene, and 
 yet also required to use the touch screen to move the next slide up (the game uses photo slides 
 as part of its cut-scene presentation) . The slides are a really clever addition that fit nicely 
 with the overall theme of the game, but the redundancy has an air of sloppiness.
  3. Additionally, there are areas  mostly during the cut-scenes  where the music cuts abruptly 
 from one theme to another (or completely out altogether) . Its pretty jarring. Some folks dont 
 consider sound or music that much in a game, but Im a very audio-oriented person. I appreciate 
 smooth musical transitions, and these little flubs didnt get past my radar.
  4. Lastly, theres no way (that Ive found) , during gameplay, to return to the Start / Options 
 screen. Youll have to shut off your DS and restart. That can be an unnecessary pain, and perhaps 
 cause undue wear on the DS itself and / or its battery.
  
  Thats a wrap!
  
  The End: Aside from some issues with the games presentation what we have here is a DS masterpiece 
 that seems to have gotten overshadowed by other games released around the same time, namely Castlevania: 
 Dawn of Sorrow. As great as that game may seem to some (myself included) , Viewtiful Joe: Double 
 Trouble is no less a respectable addition to its respective franchise. As off-putting as the notion 
 of combining the face buttons and the touch screen together for constant gameplay can be, VJDT 
 is a shining example of how to do it right. The marriage is perhaps not one made in heaven, but 
 its the movies, baby, and everything still ends happily ever after.
  
  Its not terribly long  but not something you can just breeze through in a few sittings either 
  and for $20 its well worth the price of admission. If youre interested in experiencing a game 
 that puts the DS touch screen features to the test, this is the game to check out.
  
  Thanks for reading, and have a Viewtiful day!
  
  -GD
  
  The Breakdown
  
  Presentation 
 / 6.5
  Viewtiful, colored manual; animated, in-game tutorials to get you going; and a lot of cool options 
 to make gaming fun &amp; easy. However, it wouldve been nice to have the option to go back and 
 play individual levels, and the cut-scenes could have used a little tidying up.
  
  Graphics / 9
  Arguably the best visuals on the DS. But regardless of your taste, the game has 
 some Viewtiful cel-shading, smooth frame-rate motion, and surprisingly clean textures.
  
  Sound / 9
  The music is definitely hip, and the one prevailing VJ theme is a really catchy tune. 
 I think it fits the feel of the whole Viewtiful Joe thing really well. The sound effects and voice-overs 
 too are a nice match for this arcade masterpiece.
  
  Gameplay / 9
  Henshin-a-go-go, baby! Once youve experienced what it means to be Viewtiful, that battle-cry 
 will become a mantra for life. Well, that might be a slight over-statement, but Double Trouble 
 is doubly awesome! The developers should be (and perhaps are by rabid fans of the series) hailed 
 as geniuses. Clever integration of extremely creative touch-screen functions earns this title a 
 star on the Walk of Fame.
  
  Replay Value / 7.5
  By todays standards its not terribly long  about the same amount of play as Dawn of Sorrow  
 however, playing Double Trouble through multiple times, I think, is a lot more fun than DoS. The 
 nature of the game is very arcade, and if you like that sort of thing youll enjoy it anytime 
 youre feeling particularly Viewtiful. It is called Double Trouble for a reason though, and that 
 reason is never fully justified  youll have to play through it to know exactly what Im talking 
 about, lest I spoil things  but lets just say it wouldve been nice to have been able to go back, 
 after completion, and play as one (or more) of the other characters.
  
  Overall / 8.5 (Life Is Viewtiful!) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: insteletr
Rating: 8.9
Date: Sep 26, 2006 12:36 pm PT
Review:  Um misterioso grupo criminoso invadiu o set de grava&ccedil;&otilde; es do mais novo filme de Captain 
 Blue e roubou seu filme. Joe foi em busca de resgatar o filme, pronto para detonar os vil&otilde; es 
 com seus novos poderes e recuperar as cenas roubadas. Usando e abusando das duas telas e da sensibilidade 
 do Nintendo DS, voc&ecirc; ajudar&aacute; Joe a solucionar quebra-cabe&ccedil; as confusos e capturar 
 os ladr&otilde; es, antes que causem mais dano! A c&acirc; mera de Joe permite que voc&ecirc; d&ecirc; 
 uma m&atilde; ozinha para Joe, literalmente!
  
  - Novos poderes VFX fazem uso do recurso de sensibilidade do Nintendo DS e das duas telas
  
 
  Um game para todos os apreciantes dos bons e velhos jogos de plataforma. Recheado de bom humor 
 e muita a&ccedil;&atilde; o! Divers&atilde; o garantida e um t&iacute; tulo obrigat&oacute; rio para 
 quem possui um Nintendo DS! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Canon-D
Rating: 8.1
Date: Aug 21, 2006 1:45 pm PT
Review:  Viewtiful Joe comes to DS in his latest installment.
  "Double Trouble" rides onto the Nintendo console sporting great new graphics and some Viewtiful 
 style.
  The bottom screen shows what's goin on from your usual VJ point of view, like a normal side scrolling 
 beat em up.
  The top screen shows the same action from a closer point of view OR points out clues for puzzle 
 solving.
  
  Joe sports some new powers designed specifically for the DS along with the good old Slow Motion.
 
  
  One of the new powers is the Scratch, wich let's items rain havoc on enemies heads while you literally 
 scratch the touch screen.
  Another power is the split, that allows you to split the touch screen in half letting you move 
 items or even open up walls.
  The final power is the Slide, witch exchanges the two screens between each other, permitting you 
 to zoom in on the action (just like zoom in the other VJ games) and Touch items in the background 
 to acquire them via the touch screen.
  
  Double Trouble looks more into the puzzles than the actual fighting compared to other VJ's.
  
 Most of the new powers are used simply for puzzle solving and you won't end up using them too much 
 in fights. (especially the split)
  
  The audio sports your classic Viewtiful Joe music, and his trademark "Henshin a go go baby" sounds 
 as good as ever.
  
  The game does not run without flaws though, it may appear to be too short and there is practically 
 nothing to unlock, making the game very short and giving it a low replay value
  
  Altogether Double Trouble is a great package, but due to its short story mode and the presence 
 of nothing else to do, you might want to buy it preowned or find a bargain somewhere. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Machine_Shop
Rating: 8.2
Date: Jul 7, 2006 8:42 pm PT
Review:  Viewtiful Joe: Double Trouble is a 3-D, side-scrolling, cell shaded, fun, and unique game that 
 makes good use of the DS's touch screen without over using it. Viewtiful Joe lets you play as Joe, 
 a super hero (he's not really super but nevertheless) . He can do things that your remote control 
 can do while you watch a movie such as slow down, speed up, and zoom in. He uses these powers to 
 beat up the bad guys and save the day. Being on the DS allows the game to give Joe new powers. 
 They involve you touching the screen to make cool attacks. These abilities take some time to get 
 used to but it controls well. The game is sort of short but the levels are challenging so you may 
 have to replay levels over and over again until you finally beat them. The graphics are amazing. 
 The cell shading was done very nicely and the scenery isn't bad either. The voices can get annoying 
 but the sound effects are good. This is another great Viewtiful Joe game, but gamers looking for 
 a long lasting game won't find one here. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rei_gs69
Rating: 8
Date: May 23, 2006 8:48 am PT
Review:  though it looks like a scaled down version of the joe we know and swear at, he's now got a new 
 set of ds-friendly prodding abilities. the graphics were the same, great. classic joe, scaled down, 
 you can appreciate all the detail in zoom mode. gameplay's not what i've expected. almost too clever 
 for its own good. dextrous thumbs are essential. probably the toughest game on the ds this year 
 and even harder on the adult difficulty. do yourself a favor, pick kids. sounds are scaled too 
 down. not as punchy as the console version. it has a sense o cartoony violence thats relatively 
 kids safe. you'll need the coordination of a concert pianist to get the most of it. nonetheless, 
 viewtiful joe is still viewtiful and it still rocks. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: megamegaman
Rating: 8
Date: May 22, 2006 10:22 am PT
Review:  Over all Viewtiful Joe: Double Trouble is a fun game. A simple control interface and fairly good 
 graphics, awesome sounds and many moves, this is one worthy of your DS collection. Its a load of 
 fun, jam packed with lots of action and easy to follow storyline. Being this is my first VJ game, 
 I will not try and compare it to the console versions, although I know they are also great games. 
 This version is definatly under rated and doesnt quit with the action and puzzles. The only down 
 side to this game is that it is may be to easy even on the adult mode. I honestly throughly enjoyed 
 this game in many aspects and continue to play it now. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TH3oHellAz
Rating: 7.4
Date: May 19, 2006 11:35 am PT
Review:  I really wanted this game for some reason, not sure why. when i got it and played it, i felt i 
 would get alot of fun out of it. and i did. this game has good graphics. well when i got it it 
 was, then when i compare it to Metroid prime hunters its no were near, but still looks nice. the 
 game i think is worth getting and will last for a while but not that much. if you enjoyed the previous 
 joe games you might like this one, only its let down by the amount of enemies on a screen at one 
 time, usually 3 max. and if you've never played a joe game it will seem like something cool and 
 new.
  
  GAMEPLAY
  The gameplay is very easy, two buttons. the use of the touch screen is done well but is not very 
 accurate and precise. gets anoying, sometimes you have to really be presise in were you touch which 
 is slightly anoying beause you use the d -pad alot.
  
  GRAPHICS
  Very nice graphics. looks cool on the ds. the game does tend to lose it framerate when theres alot 
 of action on screen, but thats not to bad.
  
  SOUND
  sound really cool. the theme tune is funky and catchy. and in game tunes are cool.
  
  VALUE
 
  i think it was worth my money only it was slightly short even on adulit mode (hard)
  
  Its a good game.
  7.4 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bananabill
Rating: 8.4
Date: May 15, 2006 8:34 am PT
Review:  viewtiful joe for the nintendo ds is great for killin time coz all the stages take like 5 minutes 
 each and there are more or less 10 stages each chapter and there are 5 more or less chapters (sorry 
 for the spoiler) on kids mode. so while waitin for the pizza or waitin for your life to turn and 
 be more productive, just play viewtiful joe ds! the graphics are almost a match to the console 
 versions and it pushes th ds to the limit by displayin 3d on both screens at once, but no slow 
 up of polygons... unless you use SLOW! and the sounds are all techno rock mixes similar to the console 
 music aswell. the gameplay... hohohoh... the gameplay is a mixed bag, its sometimes too easy... sometimes 
 too hard... and sometimes its just plain fun!!! the new vfx powers are somewhat viewtiful and crappy 
 at the sametime. the game lasts about 4-5 hours on kids mode and 5.5-6 hours on adults, but the 
 v rated mode takes around 7,8,9 or maybe 10 if your'e a noob to the series. the game made me play 
 kid mode twice, adult mode once and v rated 3 or more... T-I-L-T that?!
  
  OVERALL I GIVE IT AN 8.4! 
  "its great baby yeah! so... JUST GO FOR IT!" 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bettsy1987
Rating: 6.5
Date: Apr 29, 2006 8:26 am PT
Review:  Having enjoyed both the GameCube Viewtiful Joe games i was excited at the news of a DS version 
 especially with the possibilities of the touch screen. I was very disappointed.
  
  The graphic style is quite simply amazing. It retains the style of the GameCube versions even on 
 the DS's screens. The scenes are full of detail and the chracters all look excellent. The enemies 
 are classic Viewtiful Joe and are bursting with personality and charisma. 
  
  The sound is ok. Nothing special but nothing poor it keeps the game going at a good pace but fails 
 to inspire.
  
  Gameplay wise the combat is ok but fail to stand up to the games ingenius puzzles, after a while 
 the combat just gets boring and the platfroming elements are fairly rare. Overall the game is just 
 not as fun to play as the GameCube version.
  
  The game is pretty long and you are certainly getting a lot of game for your pound.
  
  So, 
 overall, pick up this game if you a fan you may be able to see throught the combat and enjoy it 
 for its great puzzles. However i would recommend you instead spend the money on either of the GameCube 
 versions before you buy this.
  
  
  
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: brim4brim
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 22, 2006 5:45 am PT
Review:  Got this game and SMB yesterday. Been playing this the most. Got home at 5PM and played until 2AM 
 before going to bed.
  
  If you've played the other Viewtiful Joe games you'll be instantly familiar with most of the moves 
 except the new touch screen ones which do make up a considerable part of the game play. The game 
 is a lot easier than the original console game. I've not felt challenged during playing it yet. 
 The same power up system is in place and there are plenty of save slots to save your game in.
 
  
  The graphics and the style is the same as the other Viewtiful Joe games and the storyline is just 
 as cheesy (I won't ruin it for you here however) . The gameplay is also similar to the console version 
 when fighting however moving across the level can at times require some rather original use of 
 touch screen control and this is what makes the game stand out.
  
  New Moves
  The first one I'll discuss is scratch attack. Press R and then rub your finger/stylus on the touch 
 screen. An example of using this move is to loosen a rock from a ledge. You can also split the 
 screen by draggin your finger right/left across the touchscreen the whole top part of the level 
 moves which allows you to jump into an area you wouldn't be able to get into otherwise or to move 
 an object to another part of the screen. For example, there is a whirlpool you cannot get passed 
 so you want to plug it. After loosening the aforementioned boulder using scratch you can split 
 the screen and move the boulder over the whole before dropping it into the whirlpool to stop it 
 spinning so you can proceed. Final new move is the ability to slide the top screen to the bottom 
 screen (effectively Zooming in) which allows you to then touch the enemies in close proximity to 
 Joe to inflict a lot of damage. This is also useful for getting objects in the background of a 
 level.
  
  Overall I'm completely happy with this installment of Viewtiful Joe. It's not quite as difficult 
 a the original but it's still hard and still great. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ZeroSonicT
Rating: 8.8
Date: Mar 17, 2006 6:15 am PT
Review:  Viewtiful Joe: Double Trouble is the first instalment of the VJ series on the Gameboy DS. This 
 time, Joe is attacked outside of MovieLand, so his VFX powers don't work! But luckily, Captain 
 Blue finds a way around this and Joe is back suited up with all his Viewtiful powers! In addition 
 to the regular Slow ability, you now have a wide variety of other VFX powers to choose from. You 
 have a variation of the Zoom ability called Slide, which brings down the top screen and alows you 
 to "poke" enemy and interact with the enviroment. You also have the Scratch ability, where you 
 quickly swipe your finger across the screen, causing objects to fall on you enemies. And lastly 
 you have the split ability, where you split the bottom screen into 2 parts, giving you access to 
 hidden and needed areas. You still have the Power Up screen, where you can buy a wide variety of 
 moves and power-ups to make your adventure easier.
  
  Overall, VJ: DT is a quirky game that's just plain fun. The story is good, the gameplay is better, 
 and the graphics rock. Get this game if you just want a fun time. Henshin-a-go-go-Baby! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: QuakeOne
Rating: 7.9
Date: Mar 15, 2006 4:40 pm PT
Review:  Viewtiful Joe on the DS? You must be crazy, I originally thought but first things first this game 
 looks fabulous on the DS. 
  
  The bottom screen displays the action from your normal Joe angle but the top screen shows things 
 much more closely. The graphics are gorgeous keeping true to the unique look of the series, joe 
 jumps ducks kicks and punches look as good on your tiny DS screen as they did on your gamecube.
 
  
  The gameplay is also true to the series but it's the puzzles in Viewtiful Joe DS that really make 
 it stand out with the new V-powers Slide, Split and Scratch. Before you start a stage you will 
 get a preview of the level which gives you time to check for clues on how you might solve various 
 puzzles. It might be having to split the screen to erupt a fire hydrant over to a fire or slide 
 the top screen down so you can screw a cog to bring down a platform. Truely these puzzles have 
 to be played and with the increasing difficulty in the puzzles the satisfaction in completing them 
 heightens.
  
  So this all sounds good right? The gameplay is fantastic, the touch screen is superb whats wrong? 
 
  
  Well unfortunatly like most Joe games it gets repetitive in the latter stages almost to the point 
 of not wanting to finish the game. In the last 2 levels you will be forced to face all the bosses 
 you have already beaten which is seemingly a Capcom trait as this is as annoying (and dull) as 
 it was in Viewtiful Joe and Devil May Cry. Why games developers think this is a good idea I dont 
 know I mean come on we beat the bosses once, making us fight them one after the other AGAIN is 
 a bit cheap.
  
  That rant aside though the fact remains this is a great game and if there is another Joe game on 
 the DS we can only imagine what Capcom can come up with for the touch screen next. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lollypop123
Rating: 6.5
Date: Mar 11, 2006 8:24 am PT
Review:  so in the end when u fight the boss its there own mother that was fighting them and set up all 
 those bosses like robocop killer hands and the flys Wow there mom must really hate them to put 
 them in soooooo much trouble and then u have to beet the game in adults then v-mode and then its 
 all skrewed after that theres nothin else to do this game is dull man all the other viewtiful joe's 
 were great in the seris exept thios 1 and viewtiful joe red hot rumble witch was horrible and short!!! 
 i ahtew short game like viewtiful joe if u want this game i reccomend not getting it its boring 
 short and a waste of five hours in your life the only thing that i liked about it is when u get 
 the VFX doing slow motion enemies and dodgeing there attacks :) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Nakichiel
Rating: 7.2
Date: Mar 7, 2006 2:43 pm PT
Review:  If I want to delay the time in Viewtiful Joe: Double Trouble, I hold my left index-finger pressed 
 against the L-button. In this delayed reality it is possible to hit dangerous projectiles back 
 to their owners. I can also hit enemies and objects a bit harder, which will make them fly trough 
 the air a bit higher. 
  These things are something my left index finger also did in the previous Joe games. But my right 
 index finger has learned a new trick ! 
  As long as I press the R-Button with it, I can rub the touch-screen with my left index finger (there 
 he is again!) to make the ground shake. 
  This shaking has some interesting effects. Frying pans will fall on the heads of my enemies, or 
 a rolling rock will break. If I'm stuck at a certain point I'll just rub my touch-screen, who knows 
 what will happen? 
  It's kind of nice to make lots of things happen with a few simple finger movements. It gives a 
 powerful feeling, my finger is like the hand of God. And that idea gets strengthened by the rest 
 of the fingerwork you'll have to use. 
  
  I press with my left finger in the middle of the touch-screen and slowly pull it left. The effect 
 will be that the screen will be split in two halves, and the top half will slowly go to the left. 
 
  This is convenient in various situations. If a platform is too far away, I can simply pull it near 
 me this way. 
  
  Double Trouble is less of a combat-orinted game than the previous Joe games. You still have to 
 fight a lot but it isn't that hard. quite simple and repetitive actually. The challenge in this 
 game is solving puzzles. 
  As you might understand by now, a puzzle is often based on the manipulation of your screen by using 
 some handy fingerwork. 
  I liked this aspect, but after a while I got the feeling the developers just wanted to boast with 
 their creative idea's that they could come up with. This kind of creativity is to be respected, 
 but it doesn't mean it'll be a fun and/or exciting game. 
  
  I completed this game in about six hours and I had a lot of fun. The flat-looking but still fully 
 3D graphics were a pleasure to the eyes, while my fingers felt spoiled with all the power they 
 suddenly got. 
  Tough, something was missing, it feels too made up, maybe it's the fact that there are so many 
 Viewtiful Joe games that have been released. It's getting too predictable. 
  
  And that's why I'm going to use my almighty fingers to give a grade that is a bit lower then I 
 would have expected and had hoped. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dreDREb13
Rating: 2.6
Date: Mar 6, 2006 7:08 pm PT
Review:  Viewtiful Joe: Double Trouble is yet another Viewtiful Joe game that has come out. The idea of 
 Viewtiful Joe for the DS is a good one too. Until you play the game that is. The game has hard 
 to control gameplay, and very bad audio. Considering the only words you'll hear from Joe are "Henshin 
 a go-go Baby!" The gameplay is hard to get used to considering you're using the d-pad and buttons 
 when you're also supposed to use the touch screen, which makes for a horribly hard time playing 
 the game. The graphics are somewhat decent for a DS game, considering most gme for the DS don't 
 have the best graphics. You will see pixels while playing so don't expect it to have the great 
 graphics. All in all, this game was a game you could pick up and play for a while, then give up 
 and play the console versions. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Humunclous
Rating: 3.7
Date: Mar 4, 2006 7:31 am PT
Review:  the two screens made it very confusing, i wasn't really impressed with the graphics, and to be 
 blunt i just didn't like it. To me the story is one of the most important parts of a game and i 
 didnt care 4 the story. The graphics for this game got so much credit i really don't see (im not 
 comparing to PSP) . the gameplay wasn't at its worst but it definetly didn't get the job done. The 
 music in this game was probably the only thing that came to par with my expectations. to make a 
 long story short i didn't like it if u don't beleive then go buy the game yourself but you were 
 warned 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bustershot
Rating: 8.2
Date: Feb 20, 2006 6:56 am PT
Review:  Viewtiful Joe Double Trouble isnt really what you call aI GOTTA HAVE IT" sorta game. The good 
 factors and bad factors even up to make this game entertaining and worth buying. Ths story however, 
 stays true to the series with its twists and turns but the gameplay has been both improved and 
 worsened as well. The simple puzzles havent been tweeked much except that most of them use the 
 new touch screen VFX powers. The part of beating up enemies is less enjoyable and even more monotonous 
 and normal combos don't have the exciting feel as they used to.
  Boss fights are still interesting and the BGM is good, but the whole 3D effect from its predecessors 
 is taken away leaving a stale feeling. 
  Viewtiful joe fans will be slightly disappointed due to short gameplay length but will enjoy the 
 comical dialogues and events that the game offers. Many people like me will raise their arms to 
 give this game aHenshin a go-go" thumbs up. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: OniPlague
Rating: 6.2
Date: Feb 18, 2006 1:19 am PT
Review:  Viewtiul Joe: Double Trouble is a potentially good installment to the Viewtiful Joe series, but 
 the touch screen effects just don't work smoothly enough to be fun.
  
  First, I'll say that the game is innovative and the presentation is great. The story is pretty 
 simplistic, even for a VJ game: Captain Blue is filming a new movie, and some hooligans steal his 
 film. Joe sets off to retrieve the film while aided by his sister Jasmine (Working on her acting 
 debut) and Captain Blue, who uses a V-Camera to focus on Joe and give him VFX powers outside of 
 Movie World. The graphics are slightly less sharp than the ones on the 2 GCN/PS2 VJ games, but 
 still look excellent on the small DS screen. The sound quality has taken only one fall, as the 
 DS can't hold tons of dialogue. It still retains decent music and a few voice samples. What would 
 it be without "Henshin a-go-go, baby!" ?
  
  The central difference between VJDT and the first VJ game is that the only VFX power retained is 
 Slow. Replacing Mach Speed is Scratch, which shakes the screen when you hold R and rub the touch 
 screen with the stylus. Upon using this, objects will fall from the top of the screen, weighing 
 down switches and hurting enemies. This is used for a variety of puzzles, but is essentially useless 
 in a fight. Replacing Zoom In is SLIDE, which is activated by sliding the stylus up the side of 
 the touch screen. This zooms in on Joe or certain enemies (Usually bosses) and objects; for the 
 latter situations, one can use TOUCH to stun a boss or activate a switch. When zoomed in on Joe, 
 certain moves that can be purchased with V-Points can be activated. Unfortunately, those aren't 
 incredibly powerful, but they're nice to have. My favorite new ability in Double Trouble is Split, 
 which splits the top and bottom of the lower screen when one slides the stylus across the middle. 
 This can break through items, move boxes off of platforms, and let you jump through walls. It's 
 very creative and useful, and easier to activate than the other powers.
  
  Other than that, Joe can punch, kick, jump, and use Slow to move faster than his enemies and dodge 
 their attacks. Strangely, using Slow doesn't influence his attacks much. On VJ and VJ2, punches 
 are devastating while in Slow, but it doesn't seem to do much here. By attacking enemies, Joe garners 
 V-Points, which allow him to buy power-ups between stages. These aren't incredibly useful, but 
 you can buy more life and the VFX Turbo Charger here. VFX, which lets you use Joe's superhuman 
 abilities, is limited to how much is left on the gauge at the top of the screen. It automatically 
 recharges while not in use, can be replenished by potions dropped by enemies or boxes, and the 
 gauge is extended when Joe collects 50 V-Films in a level. The VFX turbo charger doubles the time 
 the gauge is useable for, and extra hearts extend Joe's life ala Heart Tanks on Megaman X or Heart 
 Containers on Zelda. Oddly enough, a new potion item appears in this game, which is pink and automatically 
 consumes Joe's VFX. I believe it doubles the strength of his attacks, but the duration is too short-lived 
 to be useful.
  
  The game's 6 stages are all played out the same way: Fight enemies, solve puzzles, beat the boss. 
 The enemies aren't too difficult, and most of them have direct similarities to enemies on VJ and 
 VJ2. The puzzles make use of the touch screen, and are fairly simple to figure out (Unlike a good 
 deal of obstacles in VJ2 which took some abstract thinking) The bosses, however, are completely 
 tedious and uninspired. The general pattern for them is avoid attacks, Slide ability, Touch ability, 
 attack, repeat. There's not much variation here.
  
  What I like about Capcom's games are the way bosses are fun to fight when you learn the patterns: 
 Not here. Bosses are plain tedious, especially the fight with the Flies. There's little countering 
 attacks, little use of Slow or other abilities: Fighting them skillfully likely requires perfect 
 use of the touch screen abilities, which is why I mentioned dexterity in the review header. You 
 can still get through just by hitting them as much as possible, but this becomes problematic in 
 the 5th world, as all you do is fight the first four bosses over again, then fight a familiar character 
 twice. Having to rematch all the bosses again is enough of a task (Although the fifth one is pretty 
 easy, good luck getting through both #1 and #4) , but the game's primary flaw is this: when you 
 lose all your lifes and get a Game Over, that's it. You stay at zero lives until you find or buy 
 more. This was completely stupid of Capcom, and was NOT present in Viewtiful Joe or VJ2. The game 
 completely crashed at this point for me, as it meant there were no mid-stage continues. Weak, totally 
 weak.
  
  The replay value isn't much either (Similar to VJ2, although that game at least gave you stage 
 select.) Beating the game gets you V-Rated Difficulty, and that's it. Don't expect to play as Dante. 
 Maybe getting Rainbow V rankings on each stage (Obtained by being quick, taking no damage, and 
 racking up a lot of V-Points) unlocks something nice, but only the most dedicated of VJ fans will 
 try for that ranking.
  
  Overall, Viewtiful Joe: Double Trouble! has some nice features and it's share of fun moments, but 
 the flaws within it prevent it from being as playable as the first two games. Try it for yourself 
 though, you may disagree. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: subloopey
Rating: 8.8
Date: Jan 29, 2006 3:09 am PT
Review:  this is a great game. the graphics look good on the ds and the gameplay is highly addictive. i am 
 new to the viewtiful joe series and i was looking for a new ds game and had very little extra money. 
 that being said, if i spent 30 bucks on a game, i'd be hella pissed if it sucked, but this game 
 is awesome and worth every penny. if you're looking for a new addition to your ds collection (especially 
 one that doesn't have to do with taking care of a dog or other furry creature) you can't afford 
 to pass this title up. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kdawg24
Rating: 9.4
Date: Jan 25, 2006 9:00 pm PT
Review:  This game ROCKS!
  
  The graphics are amazing. I think this proves that cell shaded games on the DS look the best. for 
 example tony hawk and now viewtiful joe. Hey maybe every game on the ds should be cell shaded.
 
  
  The sound is good but us DS owners NEED VOICE ACTING PLEASE!
  The DS can handle it so why not do it.
  
  The game was short but oh so enjoyable and i wasnt 
 dissapointed with the length in the least bit.
  
  I paid 29.99 and it was well worth it. Though when it first hit the shelves i was like 39.99 i 
 dont think so i'll wait and im glad i did.
  
  But all in all you cant go wrong with this one.
  
  Yet again another great DS title... KEEP 
 EM COMING NINTENDO. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: CM_Floyd
Rating: 9.8
Date: Jan 7, 2006 7:10 pm PT
Review:  Viewtiful Joe Double Trouble for the Nintends DS is unbelieveable! I knew it was gonna be good, 
 but I didn't think it would be this awesome. I had an incredable time playing this game. The imersive 
 first-player will keep you entertained for hours on end. The use of the touch screen is very inventive. 
 Capcom has done marvels with the Viewtiful series. 7.6 is an outrage! This game deserves a 9, at 
 least! If you are a fan of the other Viewtiful Joes, this is a must have. This is one of the best 
 DS games on the market. So do yourself a favor and pick it up. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Maluigi
Rating: 8.4
Date: Jan 1, 2006 4:49 pm PT
Review:  VJ: DT is the latest installment in the VJ series, and I am a BIG Viewtiful Joe fan! This time, 
 Captain Blue is making a movie with Joe's sister. Joe suddenly jumps in. His sister tells him that 
 it's a movie... with her fists! All of the sudden, these evil dudes come and steal the film. So 
 Joe has to save it, but OH NO! Joe cannot turn into Viewtiful Joe. Captian Blue has an idea though. 
 He brought a special camera, so that joe has his powers in the real world. Silvia has to hold the 
 camera and keep it on Joe so his powers can work. Joe soon finds out that heroes are getting their 
 "hero-ness" sucked out of them, so that they turn evil. Joe also learns that the film contains 
 the hero-ness of Captain Blue. Joe has to rescue the film quickly... or else! To tell you the truth, 
 the gameplay is just like the old games, but the VFX controls aren't very good, but they are supposed 
 to be used for puzzle-solving though. The graphics are top notch (the best I've seen on the DS!) . 
 The sound is just like the earlier games as well. Altogether, the game is put together excelently, 
 but the only thing that's wrong is the controls. I still strongly recommend this game to fans and 
 newbies alike! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Emerging-XIII
Rating: 9.2
Date: Dec 29, 2005 6:33 pm PT
Review:  From the great games of the gamecube emerge Viewtiful Joe: Double Trouble for the DS. The great 
 style and super 2.5D graphics of the first 2 return in this great installment in the Viewtiful 
 Joe series.
  
  Gameplay: The game has extrodanary gameplay. Fighting is fun and The puzzles are hard sometimes 
 but they're not too hard. Joe's powers are used to their full extent in puzzles and combat. The 
 touch screen also comes into play, the game uses it the most in any game I've seen. Only bad thing 
 is you can't fight more than 2 enemies at the same time.
  
  Graphics: BEST GRAPHICS TO DATE ON DS! THEY COMPETE WITH THE GCN GRAPHICS. Only bad thing about 
 them is that to prevent slow ups you can't fight more than 2 enemies at the same time.
  
  Great game through and through get it if you like beat-um ups. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Pillsburyhitman
Rating: 8.4
Date: Dec 23, 2005 5:55 am PT
Review:  ------------------------------------------------------------------ 
  Game Review 
  ------------------------------------------------------------------ 
  
  Introduction:
  Two 
 factors determine the greatness of games: style and substance. By style we refer to the particular 
 flair, personality, and idea of a game, and by substance we refer to how well it actually plays 
 out in action. The Viewtiful Joe series is renowned for some of the most stylish games ever played, 
 and yet still manages to deliver incredible substance along with it. Bizarre, funny, quirky, and 
 downright fun - these words all describe Viewtiful Joe: Double Trouble with perfect accuracy.
 
  
  GamePlay: 
  Appearing for the first time on Nintendo DS, the Viewtiful Joe formula is well-intact. Joe can 
 punch, kick, and jump his way through one of the strangest game worlds you've ever encountered. 
 And, as with everything, he does it with style. Every bit of combat feels fun and whimsical, and 
 gets even better when you utilize his VFX powers. Using these abilities, you can perform such amazing 
 feats as slowing down time, splitting the enviroment, dropping down items on enemies, and shaking 
 the screen. Many of these are performed with the touch screen, and it works quite well. The touch 
 screen usage really adds a lot of value to the gameplay, which is one of the strongest points of 
 the game. 
  
  Control: 
  The D-pad and button controls work perfectly well, but the touch controls can take a while to get 
 used to. Once you do, they work excellently and offer you a high level of interactivity without 
 ever becoming frustrated. 
  
  Graphics: 
  This has to be the best-looking DS game I've ever seen, even more so than Nanostray. The sidescrolling 
 3D world is colorful, immersive, highly detailed, and downright beautiful. Joe and his enemies 
 are rendered in what appears to be cel-shading. All six levels are based on popular movies, and 
 they really manage to immerse you in this strange world by use of some of the most detailed environments 
 ever seen in a handheld game. Graphically, this game competes with the Gamecube versions, which 
 speaks worlds for the power of the DS. Unfortunately, this graphical mastery comes at a price. 
 In order to prevent game slow-downs, the designers opted to have very few enemies ever onscreen 
 at the same time. Consequently, you find yourself rarely fighting more than one opponent, and at 
 times you get the feeling of just walking forward for a new opponent, one after another. For those 
 of you who remember Master Karateka on the NES, you'll know what I'm talking about.
  In finality, it should be noted that Viewtiful Joe is possibly the most graphically impressive 
 handheld game I've ever seen, and easily beats anything on the PSP. If Viewtiful Joe sets a standard, 
 we'll hopefully be seeing a lot more great-looking DS games in the future.
  
  Sound & Music: 
  Like the graphics, the sound really shows off what the DS can do. In what sounds 
 almost like high-quality MP3, a heart-racing soundtrack keeps the action moving at a fast pace, 
 and always fits the situation. The tunes are excellent, and while they're not very distinctive, 
 they get the job done very well. The sound effects are equally impressive, and at times you'll 
 have a hard time believing that your little DS stereo speakers are pumping out this stuff.
  
  Dual Screen Use: (only for Nintendo DS games)
  As stated before, the touch screen is used 
 to perform all sorts of incredible powers, including reversing the two screens and shaking the 
 entire world via "scratching." It can be a little cumbersome having to switch between buttons and 
 the stylus, but it's rarely a major problem, and the touchscreen usage adds of a lot of fun to 
 the gameplay.
  
  Final Comments: 
  This game has been overshadowed by recent DS releases like Mario Kart and Tony Hawk's American 
 Sk8land, and platformer fans have mostly opted for Castlevania DoS and Sonic Rush while forgetting 
 all about this game. This is a shame, since Viewtiful Joe: Double Trouble is an excellent game 
 in its own right, and a great tribute to the technical power of the DS. While the touch-screen 
 controls can be a little annoying at times, and the sparse enemy encounters can occasionally bore 
 you, the good things about this game keep you coming back for a long time. Regardless of its shortcomings, 
 it's one of the best platformers of the season, and shouldn't be forgotten just because Castlevania 
 and Sonic are better.
  If you're a fan of Viewtiful Joe, or just platformers in general, then this game is a great choice 
 for your DS library. 
  
  ------------------------------------------------------------------ 
  Game Rating 
  ------------------------------------------------------------------ 
 
  Pros: Pushes the DS to its graphical limits. Viewtiful Joe gameplay is almost fully intact, and 
 new touchscreen additions make for a lot of fun that you won't find on the console versions. Fairly 
 good replay value.
  
  Cons: Switching to touchscreen can be annoying. Graphical detail means very few enemies to fight.
 
  
  Final Score: 8.5
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: legnaleugim2003
Rating: 8
Date: Dec 10, 2005 8:41 am PT
Review:  this game has all it needs to be a funny game to play it when you are in a long boring trip to 
 your grandmother that live in the mountains and is sick. Yuo will definitly love this game because 
 this g=have good sense and good gameplay maybe this game isn't a good as joe 1 or 2 but this is 
 passable. If you have play or buy VJ hot rumble you may think the series go to worst but no hot 
 rumble was just an error of making a game of joe of fighting but this game doesn't to do anything 
 with this so buy it and enjoy it for sure. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: legochip10
Rating: 8.8
Date: Nov 25, 2005 10:06 am PT
Review:  This is one of the best new games for the DS so far next to mario kart and tony hawk. The gameplay 
 for this game is perfect with new VFX powers like scratch, slide, and split, all involving the 
 touch screen. The graphics are great for the DS, but then the music is dissapointing. Some of the 
 Sound FX are just like the other VJ games. This game also seemed a little to easy when it came 
 to fighting foes, even in adult mode (hard mode) it still seemed a little too easy. But looking 
 to the brighter side of the game, the graphics are nice, the new powers make the game even more 
 fun, there is still a SLOW motion to the game (most people like that) , and the game has more new 
 powerups. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: deadmeat59
Rating: 7.5
Date: Nov 24, 2005 11:32 am PT
Review:  yet agai there isa ds game with the #2 srceen it used for somthing useless with games me mad when 
 i first saw the game i was like wow this is on ds! the game is great looking but a bit fuzzy and 
 the screen is a bit small but the game plays well andthe touch screen isalways cool i think you 
 will injoy this game i did. also if you are a fan of the game try to watch the show i hear its 
 great the game shows that the ds can pull of some good looking games unlike 2d games witch sadly 
 there isalot of them on ds some games on ds could be done on ga withc boils my blood but this game 
 gives me high hopes to see what ds can do not just the touch screen makes games good 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hoser721
Rating: 8.6
Date: Nov 23, 2005 9:18 am PT
Review:  first off let me just say that i am a huge Viewtiful Joe fan and when i heard that they were making 
 this for the ds i got really exited and this game doesn't disappoint.
  
  The gameplay is still fast and fun. the touch screen stuff takes a little getting use to but once 
 you are familiar with it you won't mind. you have the slow down power and a split like power. the 
 action does get a little repetitive and the puzzles are pretty easy for the most part, but i'm 
 sure you won't mind because you'll be having a great time.
  
  the graphics are amazing they work perfectly on the ds and look like it's on the gamecube, and 
 the gamecube's were pretty amazing. the sound is pretty good. all the typical punch and kick sounds 
 are in their.
  
  this game is pretty great and with the amazing games like this coming out i'm sure Nintendo is 
 going to have a strong grasp on the handheald biz 
::::::

::::::
UserName: frostbitee
Rating: 8.4
Date: Nov 22, 2005 2:43 pm PT
Review:  The game is fun, the toutch screen iznt as bad as gamespot says, and the graphics are great! The 
 game is short, only 6 areas, and the boss fights r very easy. there is so skill to beating bosses. 
 all you do is hit them, then dodge thier attack. in some cases that might be fun tho. the sound 
 is good, but none of the charecters talk. They just use the sayings they used in the consol versions 
 like *henshin a go go baby!* right before a boss he makes a mask go over his face. every time the 
 boss comes its the same scene just diffrent background.
  
  overall the game is very fun, but short. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: IChangedMyName
Rating: 8.7
Date: Nov 21, 2005 5:36 am PT
Review:  Vietiful Joe DS, is almost as beatiful as it 1st appeared among gamecube, the game hols all of 
 its tradional gamplay new features involving the touch. alot of joes new powers involve the touch. 
 some times though it really is irritating but over all its fun as hell, until you beat it b/c after 
 u finished the game there is nothing left 2 do, at all. iz a great sidescroller, probaly really 
 un-recognized for it potential its like veiwtiful joe 2 go you couldnt have it any better an hopefully 
 u couldnt have it any worse. the jist of the story are bascillay film related, you'd know that 
 b/c almost all viewtiful joes involve some movies reference, also noted was a lvl in the game that 
 capcom put probaly b/c most people who own DS appreicate this title, the lvl is the mansion from 
 RE in full detail but cel-shaded and the boss battles are like the orignals, if u dont understand 
 controsl very well you'll be in for some ownage if you do you will have a great time. for another 
 note in every chapter if you collect all the VFX icons and have a fully attianed gauge you get 
 a nice compeltion bonus, the game has many save slots and the store is present. So you can buy 
 moves, health, upgrade your health, upgrade your VFX gauge and by projectiles. so i'd say if you 
 want a sidescroller thats just really great yoy'd pick up Viewtiful Joe Double Trouble for Nintendo 
 DS 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Yagami-Iori
Rating: 8.8
Date: Nov 20, 2005 9:51 am PT
Review:  Viewtiful Joe is the series of games that has really come into its own as a powerhouse of the sideview 
 action adventure game. And the DS version only continues this trend. In this game, you once again 
 take the controls as Joe once again, only this time, he is fighting in the real world (thanks to 
 a camera that allows him to use his powers outside of the movie world) , as heroes are losing their 
 "heroness," which Joe must get back. The game uses the old slow mechanic and also introduces 4 
 all new touchscreen mechanics...
  
  Scratch- Probably the weakest of the touchscreen powers, you press the scratch button and rapidly 
 move the stylus to shake something lose or drop itmes on an enemy. This power is almost too weak 
 to bother with, until you can get an upgrade for it.
  
  Split- I love this power. You split the bottom screen into two, and use this to drop items onto 
 holes, get past walls, a bunch of things. Definately the most used touch power
  
  Slide- Move the top screen to bottom & vice versa. This allows for stronger attacks on enemies 
 and also allows for the use of the touch power
  
  Touch- Simple, touch where it says to get power ups & defeat some enemies that are not able to 
 be beaten otherwise
  
  Gameplay- 9- The makers of this game did an excellent job at keeping the V. J. action intact while 
 utilizing the touch screen. The reason I only give it a 9, instead of a 10, is because of the learning 
 curve of getting used to using the stulus & buttons at the same time. While its quite able to be 
 done, it will take a little time to find what you like to be comfortable (I actually prefer a thumbpad 
 for playing this game) . The new powers are good additions, too.
  
  Graphics- 9- They managed to really capture the look of V. J. on a systems which capabilities are 
 not up to par with the other game's housed systems. So some graphics were lost, but still, one 
 of the best looking DS games around. It's good to see this new crop of DS games really showing 
 what the DS can do.
  
  Sound- 8- Many of the in-game sounds are intact, but all of the cutscenes are no longer done with 
 voices, but by captions. Thank god they left "Henshin-a-go-go, baby!" in for the script. But that's 
 all. All the in-game sounds though, are captured beautifully & keep the atmosphere of V. J.
  
  Value- 8- This is one of those games where if you beat it, you'll be all good, but most of 
 us will want to go back & go for the hidden characters, which I know I will be!
  
  Tilt- 9- I love this game. The lack of the voice acting on cut scenes is purely the only reason 
 I don't give this game a 10 for tilt.
  
  Overall score- 8.7 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
