-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Viva Pinata: Pocket Paradise
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/ds/strategy/vivapinata/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 Tons of depth and replayability.
 Graphics are technically impressive.
 Collecting pinatas is extremely rewarding.
 Touch-screen controls are tight and precise.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 Rewards system is far too slow.
 Animals aren't very cute.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Sep  9, 2008
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 7
Critic Score: 8.3, 29 Review (s)
User Score: 7.7, 126 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: THQ
Developer: Rare Ltd.
Genre: Virtual Life
Date: Sep 8, 2008
ESRB: Everyone

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Though you won't find a paradise in your pocket, Viva Pinata makes animal romancing fun while you're 
 on the road. 

  For those who have always dreamed of cultivating a garden full of living pinatas without being 
 tethered to a home console, the Viva Pinata franchise has finally made its portable debut. Pocket 
 Paradise is a surprisingly faithful conversion that condenses the animals, plants, and micromanagement 
 options that made the Xbox 360 original so enthralling into a DS game. The slower pace and in-depth 
 tutorials make this a good entry point for people overwhelmed by the often chaotic flow of the 
 console games, but Viva veterans may find themselves struggling to stay awake as they plow through 
 hours of gardening before the more interesting animals start to arrive. Pocket Paradise can satiate 
 your desire to romance a family of whirlms while you're on the road, but it lacks the unrelenting 
 grip that makes the console versions impossible to put down.  

           It's a good thing fizzlybears don't like eating doenuts.      

  The basic gameplay 
 in Pocket Paradise is indistinguishable from the gameplay of its console brothers. You attract 
 pinatas into your garden based on your level and the plants and animals that currently populate 
 your land. It's a simple concept but it makes for a very engaging game. You never know exactly 
 what will tempt a lurking pinata, so you'll constantly be overhauling your lands trying to entice 
 a stubborn outsider. The controls make excellent use of the touch screen, allowing you to easily 
 sweep around the garden planting bushes with precision and directing pinatas back to their homes. 
 Going to the store or whipping out one of your trusty tools is only a couple of taps away, so molding 
 the garden to your liking is even easier than in the console versions. There is still some clumsiness 
 when objects are too close to each other, but the controls are predominantly superior in this portable 
 iteration.  

  The initial batches of pinatas are extremely easy to please. They desire only a nice patch of soil 
 or a lone flower before they'll move in and start to romance, a silly dance that lets you populate 
 your garden with more of the same species. The later pinatas are much pickier, though, and you'll 
 need to completely overhaul your terrain, provide a bushel of rotten fruit, or even tempt them 
 with a flock of tasty pinatas. Figuring out how to lure these fickle friends into your merry garden 
 can be tricky, but getting them to procreate is much easier than it was on the Xbox 360. Though 
 pinatas still have a seemingly arbitrary set of requirements that must be met (for instance, fizzlybears 
 need to eat a bottle of medicine before they'll romance, for some terrifying reason) , you can circumvent 
 these entirely and just feed them romance candy. Previously, romance candy would work only if you 
 had already convinced two pinatas to romance. Being able to force-feed them these aphrodisiac treats 
 takes away a lot of the satisfaction of the breeding process. It's best to ignore this option and 
 not cheat your way past the romance requirements.  

  More troubling than easy romancing is the sluggish progression system. Leveling up now moves like 
 a shellybean through water, which means you'll be dealing with the same group of low-level pinatas 
 for hours before you can lure some more interesting beasts into your abode. In previous games, 
 there was a seemingly never-ending stream of new items and animals being introduced to you. After 
 accomplishing just a few new actions (such as luring in a new pinata or growing a new plant) , you 
 would level up, which would bring even more new pinatas and plants to deal with. In Pocket Paradise, 
 it takes a lot longer to advance, which means you will come across new items less frequently. One 
 of the main hooks in the console games is this extremely generous progression system, which makes 
 it difficult to stop playing because you're so regularly rewarded with something new. When the 
 rewards are limited, it's easier for less experienced gardeners to manage their land, but anyone 
 familiar with the formula will curse the listless pace.  

           The romance dances have made the transition intact.      

  The graphics in Pocket 
 Paradise do an admirable job of replicating the visuals in the Xbox 360 games. The 3D pinatas mesh 
 seamlessly with the 2D environment, creating a living world that looks enticing. Fog will drift 
 lazily over your land every dawn, which adds a bit of ambiance to the docile breeding grounds. 
 Unfortunately, while the game is technically impressive, it lacks the cuteness factor necessary 
 to push you to lure in and romance new pinatas. The idle animations and silly facial expressions 
 in the console versions add a dose of motivation that is sadly missing on the DS.  

  While Pocket Paradise does an impressive job of squishing the console pinata experience onto a 
 small screen, it lacks the generous progression and rewards system that makes the other versions 
 so addictive. The simple formula is so captivating, though, that even a sluggish leveling system 
 and less-than-cute inhabitants cannot destroy what is still a fun, engrossing experience. Pocket 
 Paradise may not be able to match the original versions in cuteness, but it sure packs a powerful 
 punch in the portable market.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (5 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: Hazaal
Rating: 7.5
Date: Feb 7, 2009 10:02 am PT
Review:  (Internet Ad) Random Question:
  
  Do you like playing Viva Piata but don't have a Xbox 360? Now you can play it on DS! With it's 
 ups & downs, there are plenty of (8) new species to care for.
  
  The Good:
  -New Species
  -It's Mobile (Play in the car, etc.)
  -You can make your dream garden and do 
 ANYTHING (sorry, caps lock) you want to do.
  
  The bad
  -nil
  
  so if you enjoyed Pokemon & Spore (i know i did) , give it a try, 'coz it's like marmite, YOU EITHER 
 LOVE IT OR HATE IT.
  
  No piata were harmed making the reveiw, although some might whilst your playing it ( 'coz they 
 fight a lot) .
  
  
  
  Ps. MissingNo (Pokemon Glitch) will rule the world someday, and on that day, this game (probably) 
 won't exist, so don't wait 'til the last minite to get it 'coz its $0.72... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: JuicyToes
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jan 6, 2009 1:41 pm PT
Review:  Well I have spent many hours playing this game, and it has surprised me.
  It is very addictive, who would've thought something so childish could bring so much fun to an 
 older gamer!
  I like the fact that you just customize your own garden and attract Pinata's so they become residents 
 in your garden. I know that sounds weird, but I guarantee it's lots of fun.
  But, I do not see a point in playing it and going through all the effort, after all it's just a 
 ongoing story, it's repetitive, you just do things to get different kinds of Pinata's and that's 
 really the focus of the game.
  Don't get me wrong though, it is a decent game and whilst playing it, you will get carried away 
 and next thing you know you lost 3 hours in your day, it will keep you occupied that's for sure 
 :)
  
  So I advise gamers that like The Sims, Animal Crossing, Harvest Moon etc. to buy this, because 
 you will definitely enjoy it! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Gatcho
Rating: 8
Date: Dec 11, 2008 5:55 pm PT
Review:  I wasn't able to play the XBOX 360 or PC version of this game so it would be tough to compare everything 
 (with the exception of the toned down graphics) and specify what is missing on this version, but 
 there is a hefty amount of things that can be done with this game that should be given a good look.
 
  
  You will be forgiven to think that this is a kiddie title at first glance. But regardless of your 
 age, the amount of things and experimentation required to complete the game is going to be a gratifying 
 experience. You will start off with a tutorial that will show you how to take control of your pet 
 (the piata) that will later progress to other things like how to attract other piatas, making 
 them multiply, etc etc. There are requirements that you must fulfill in order to attract them to 
 visit your garden, and eventually become a resident. You can then later have them multiply (quite 
 easily because they don't have any gender) and sent off to parties or just sell them for money. 
 Everything that I mentioned sounds pretty basic but that's just the half of it.
  
  The game does a good job of limiting the things that you can do on lower levels which forces you 
 to experiment so that new piatas and options will become available. Trying out and/or discovering 
 ways on how to produce a variant, generating money by milking a cow or producing honey from bees 
 etc, watching them fight, healing the sick, decorating your garden, building their houses, and 
 even planting flowers and trees for you to sell and or have them eat will magically make your spare 
 time disappear. And before you know it, you'll discover yourself playing the game for more than 
 3 hours without you even noticing it. 
  
  There is a ton of good looking and well animated (mostly cute) piatas on offer. Add to that the 
 impressive looking garden that shifts between night and day, coupled with animal and environmental 
 sound effects and you'll have an immersive experience. There are a few cinematics every once in 
 a while and although they look pretty good, the sound volume is too low for me to understand what 
 exactly they're talking about in the clip. There is also short video clip pre-"multiplying" process 
 for every single piata. The game also rarely experience performance issues which is a good plus.
 
  
  If there's any issue with the game, it is in my opinion your inability to own a good amount of 
 piatas. You'll often times find yourself selling animals to give way to another one because all 
 of the items including plants and trees are limited. And although the game enabling you to expand 
 your garden twice helps fix that problem a bit, it just in the process introduce another issue 
 in the game wherein you'll probably be forced to re-position your already existing structures to 
 make use of the additional space given to you. And the person that you can hire that runs around 
 your garden watering your plants can easily get stuck. And as a result the game will give you a 
 quite annoying warning sound and message every half a minute or so informing you that the helper 
 is stuck somewhere.
  
  The controls on the other hand is obviously well thought of. You can easily issue commands and 
 you'll always feel that you are in complete control of the game.
  
  Anyone who is looking for a title that will keep them busy for days should consider purchasing 
 this game. It might not last as long as other titles out there and you might suddenly find yourself 
 hitting the "repetitive wall of death" after a few days of playing it, but the overall experience 
 should make up for it. 
  
  .: My reviews are only as good as everyone else's. Take every single one of them with a grain of 
 salt:. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: xylophagous
Rating: 6.5
Date: Sep 13, 2008 11:24 pm PT
Review:  The DS version of Viva Pinata is essentially a port of the original Xbox 360 game, albeit with 
 lesser graphics (obviously) . Everything has changed for the better, with the introduction of stylus 
 based gameplay and no loading. Both of these things were annoying and began to grate on the 360 
 version.
  
  The first few hours of play are simply wonderful and interesting. You won't be able to stop playing 
 the game. But then, rather suddenly, you may come to the realisation that the gameplay is way less 
 deep than it at first appeared. It isn't really that hard to attract lots of different kinds of 
 pinatas to your garden. The game even helps you out a bit too much by telling you what you need 
 to do to attract variant types to your garden e. g. by eating a particular kind of fruit or flower. 
 This ruins the experience a little by taking away a lot of the experimentation.
  
  The other problem is that you never really feel like you're building a functional garden. You simply 
 plop down stuff wherever you like and the whole thing looks chaotic and messy. This was also a 
 problem in the 360 version. Because you're limited to one garden only you'll frequently have to 
 tear down large section of it to accommodate various pinatas.
  
  Overall this is a good game with excellent stylus based gameplay. However, the game holds your 
 hand a bit too much and you may eventually become bored of the easy level of play and the high 
 level of repetition. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tomsace
Rating: 10
Date: Sep 7, 2008 2:32 pm PT
Review:  Alot better than I thought it would have been, I had Viva Pinata the original for xbox 360, didn't 
 think this would compare to it, but it does! the only difference I have found from this and the 
 xbox 360 version is the graphics! But don't get me wrong the graphics of this game are very nice 
 and they have took full advantage of the Nintendo DS graphics and more...
  I have played this game for many hours and can definately see myself playing it for very many more! 
 There is everything from romancing Pinatas and designing your garden to upgrading tools and helpful 
 tutorials that help you through the game.
  If you enjoy playing any of the other Viva Pinata games, then this is a game for you. Try to get 
 every Pinata species in your garden by using the food chain to attract them and plant special trees 
 or flowers to attract every sort of Pinata. Buy ornaments, paving, fences, seeds, vegetables to 
 smarten up your garden to attract more. The doctor is available if you get a sick Pinata and there 
 is even buy Pinatas thats already visited your garden.
  It definately gets a 100%, 10/10, Perfect rating from me! 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
