-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Warhammer 40,000: Squad Command
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/ds/strategy/warhammer40000squadcommand/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 Straightforward, easy-to-understand turn-based interface.
 Excellent level design with loads of destructible terrain.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 Choppy, pixelated visuals make it hard to separate enemy units from the scenery.
 Odd control choices make it difficult to control troops.
 Second-rate map makes the dual-screen setup pretty much worthless.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Feb  6, 2008
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 4.5
Critic Score: 5.8, 24 Review (s)
User Score: 6.9, 168 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: THQ
Genre: Sci-Fi Turn-Based...
Date: Dec 17, 2007
ESRB: Teen

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Visual problems and poor use of the second screen take a toll on the DS port of Warhammer 40,000: 
 Squad Command. 

  Consumers sure seem to appreciate the differences between the Sony PSP and the Nintendo DS, so 
 maybe it's about time that developers caught on too. The latest illustration of this lack of understanding 
 is the DS port of Warhammer 40,000: Squad Command, which has been shifted over from the PSP with 
 few changes. Developer RedLynx decided not to take advantage of the Nintendo system's unique amenities 
 or seriously enhance the interface of this turn-based tactical simulation. Instead, it pretty much 
 just slapped the overhead map onto the second screen and decided to live with atrocious visuals. 
 The result is a game that's just about as hard to control as it is to look at, not quite unendurable 
 but certainly not enjoyable.  

  Most of the basics have been handled reasonably well, however. Squad Command features a very good, 
 albeit very straightforward, tactical engine that should be a snap to learn for anyone who has 
 played a turn-based squad shooter before. All movement and combat is based on a traditional turn-based 
 battle system. Every unit is granted a set number of action points with which to move and shoot 
 during each turn. A further no-nonsense tone is established by the traditional us-against-them 
 storyline of the 15-mission solo campaign. If you're at all familiar with the grim Warhammer 40,000 
 universe, you'll immediately cozy up to a familiar tale of the Imperium battling the nasty forces 
 of Chaos. Plot isn't developed much here, although you don't have to have any experience with the 
 tabletop miniature game to deal with the simple objectives. Most of the time, you're clearing out 
 Chaos bases, trying to kill every enemy soldier on the map, with the occasional diversion of blowing 
 up laser turrets and tanks.  

           Having the overhead map displayed at all times isn't much help in your pixelated war against 
 Chaos.      

  This sounds like an awfully bland formula. And, well, it is bland. But great level design makes 
 every assignment feel like a fresh challenge. Solid enemy troop placement along with loads of options 
 for cover in buildings, walls, wreckage, and other landscape features make combat interesting all 
 the way through the game. Almost everything in the game can be destroyed too, leaving you an incredible 
 amount of freedom when devising battle strategies. You can hammer at foes head-on and blast through 
 fortifications with the aid of such heavy weapons as laserguns or rocket launchers. You can flank 
 bad guys and clip them from long distance with sniper rifles. Or you can mix up different approaches. 
 For instance, you can attract the attention of adversaries on one front, then sneak space marines 
 behind enemy lines and let them go to town with their chainswords.  

  Yet no matter how you choose to take on the Chaos legions, you need to be cautious with how you 
 spend action points. Enemy artificial intelligence isn't spectacular at putting together offensive 
 battle plans, but it certainly reacts smartly enough to your moves. Chaos foes duck in and out 
 of cover astutely. They're also quick to carve up any troops that you leave in the open at the 
 end of a turn. Tough decisions need to be made in every mission regarding when to try taking out 
 an enemy versus playing it safe and hunkering down behind cover until the next turn. Of course, 
 sometimes the old duck-and-cover approach isn't the safest move. You've got to watch what you're 
 sheltering behind because an enemy with a rocket launcher or a plasma gun might just be able to 
 blast right through your protection and turn you into a fine red mist. Missions can be incredibly 
 tense because level layout and the destructible terrain make enemy actions anything but predictable. 

  Well, missions would be tense if you could see everything properly. Visuals in Squad Command appear 
 to have been directly ported over from the PSP with no consideration for how the game would perform 
 or look on the graphically inferior DS. This results in choppy frame rates that make it a challenge 
 just to smoothly scroll the camera across battlefields. Also, much of the fine detail apparent 
 on the PSP has been obscured by big ugly pixels on the DS. This ruins the accurate depiction of 
 Warhammer miniatures that was one of the big strengths of the PSP version.. The fantastic cutscenes 
 in the PSP edition have been removed here as well.. This also wrecks a lot of the great Warhammer 
 vibe present in the PSP game.  

  More significantly for gameplay, the blocky graphics make it hard to tell where enemy units are 
 amidst the backdrops of most levels. It gets even tougher to spot bad guys once you start blowing 
 things up. With wreckage strewn across the landscape, you have to practically squint to pick out 
 Chaos troopers from the rubble. Even worse, there is no real payoff for enduring these terrible 
 graphics. The second screen is used merely to display your overhead map, which shows too little 
 information to be useful when planning strategy. The map doesn't show the direction that enemies 
 are facing or any sort of enemy viewing cone or weapon range. A lot more could have been done here, 
 so you can chalk this up to yet another waste of the DS's second screen..  

  Unit controls are at least a little more refined here thanks to the use of the stylus and touch 
 screen. You can now select troopers directly, as well as give orders with taps on the screen. But 
 as with the map, this isn't nearly as useful as you might think. It's too easy to mess up and wind 
 up moving to the wrong position or moving when you want to shoot. So issuing commands with the 
 D pad and regular buttons actually makes more sense since it's more precise, which is awfully important 
 here because you can't undo orders.  

           You pretty much need to have the bad guys walk into the open like this to have a chance 
 of spotting them.       

  Other technical issues are held over from the PSP version of Squad Command. The interface isn't 
 up to snuff even when you ignore the DS-specific flaws. The camera angle is locked in a tight isometric 
 point of view that can only be slightly swiveled along a narrow range that never lets you get a 
 good look at your surroundings. Default camera angles also frequently make it impossible to tell 
 if you've cleared an object and can shoot past it or if you're still behind just enough cover that 
 your shot will be impeded. Many times there is no way to determine how a shot will turn out unless 
 you simply give it a try and squeeze off a round, which of course is a big waste of action points 
 in a game where you need to hoard them like gold. This problem can also result in friendly-fire 
 incidents where you take out a buddy even though it looks like you've got a clear line past him 
 to a Chaos enemy.  

  The game offers Wi-Fi, single-cart, and multi-cart link options for up to eight players. Ranked 
 Wi-Fi matches are the way to go here if you can get a solid connection (opponents seem to drop 
 out a lot, so the system either isn't stable or people are quitting matches a great deal) because 
 battles get pretty intense and a ranking system lets you line up games against opponents at your 
 level of experience.  

  While Warhammer 40,000: Squad Command was merely OK on the PSP, it's downright bad on the DS. Adding 
 all of the visual issues to the existing interface and control problems makes the game more annoying 
 than anything else; thus, your overall tolerance will depend on how much you love space marines. 
     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (18 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: Jercioh
Rating: 6
Date: Mar 13, 2009 10:04 am PT
Review:  An average game. Very hard. First three levels are possible. Buy it though. Keep it for a month 
 then trade it in. Is a cheap game for its price. Content is boring. PSP slim and lite or 3000 version 
 of Warhammer 40,000 Squad Command is addictive at first then boringly repitive. However it never 
 repeats itself in anyway known to earth. PSP version is better by a pound because before the level 
 begins they play a video. Sound comes (a voice) . On the DS lite you have to read the text. Get 
 it on PSP if you have a PSP. If you have a DS buy Grand Theft Auto Chinatown Wars Instead. It's 
 so much better in every way possible to mankind whom some are on this wonderful but polluted, ferrari-controlled 
 planet in which we happily live on. The day of our death is going to come so play this before you 
 die. Or you will heavily regret it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: benco1warhammer
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 8, 2009 11:37 am PT
Review:  This is one of those love it or hate it games. I love it I think the graphics are good. I think 
 the missions are challenging but not annoying. The sounds are cool. The videos are good. But there 
 is room for improvement as you can only play single player as one army the space marines (fine 
 if you like them but tough if you don't) . The only multiplayer armies are space marine and chaos. 
 You don't get to pick your troops (although you do get to pick there weapons) . There are assault 
 marines. The weapons are cool after a while but it takes time to get them. The chaos space marines 
 always seem to have better stuff. It's worth 8.99 but no more. The conclusion is if you find it 
 cheep get it but don't pay 19 for it. Buy dawn of war instead its 10 times better. You will have 
 more fun with that. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DSdude247
Rating: 4
Date: Dec 29, 2008 9:28 am PT
Review:  I bought this game used at game stop, and thats where it ended back up at the next morning. I got 
 twenty minutes into it and had enough. I usually like strategy games but this one was just boring 
 to me. The turn based system is very slow and time consuming. One thing that would have made this 
 game better is if you could drag to select your whole squad and have real-time battles like the 
 game spore, or the old computer game populous. The graphics where really grainy and slow, and yea 
 I know the DS in't known for it's graphics, but when there is games on the DS like ninga giden 
 and Zelda, THQ could have done a much better job of presenting the game. Im sure this game might 
 appeal to some, but if you like intense strategey games that you can get sucked into and make split 
 second decisions, this one is not for you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: scouttrooperbob
Rating: 7
Date: Dec 24, 2008 8:57 am PT
Review:  Ok were do I start. The only reason I got this game was because I had a broken arm and wanted a 
 game I could play with just a touch screen and take turns. Its a fun game for a while but getts 
 old. Heres the game in a nutshell. You have a group of men and you move those men and kill the 
 bad men. There are tanks and diferent kinds troopsto use. You are the one who desides how and who 
 are going to defeat the enemy. It isnt a bad game its just realy repetative. If you are a fan of 
 stratagy games pick this one up
  
  Good: Its levals are fairly large and can be a chalenge, you can pick your troops, You drive a 
 tank over some dudes
  Bad: extremly repetative, Its hard to complete an online game (blame it on nintindo and sore losers) , I 
 didnt even care about the story.
  
  when your troops talk its kind of anoying because they say "moving" Or "yes sir" and there voices 
 are anoying so do what I did turn it down all the way. If I remember the musics pretty anoying 
 too.
  
  I usualy recomend a diferent game but I sold my ds and got a psp. Dont be mad at me guys. ds just 
 aint for me. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: doombringer175
Rating: 4
Date: Oct 22, 2008 5:55 pm PT
Review:  O. K. I played the board game, loved it.
  Saw this game and wanted it. Second Worst Game I Own, do not ask about the first. I was hopping 
 for a lot more. I mean come one it has bad graphics, no plot, I could not figure out the controls 
 for the first thirty minuets. When I read the booklet, it did not help. What is the point of the 
 game. I do not know. That is half the fun of any game. There about 12 armies in the board game, 
 I was not expecting that, but what armies were I playing, space Marines I hope. Honestly, if I 
 wanted a game with bad graphics I would have bought an NES for the same price. Might i add better 
 games and graphics, kind of sad. My only warning do not by this game. Muliplayer, I do not know 
 anyone who would want to play this game online. My only use is to annoy my friends with single 
 card play (Worst Idea In Game = ( )
  
  Bad:
  Graphics, design, plot, controls, GAME
  
  Good:
  Very funny there were no good features. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Jamez634
Rating: 2.5
Date: Oct 11, 2008 10:44 pm PT
Review:  I'M MOVING . . . OH NO . . . I DIED . . . 
  I'M MOVING . . . OH NO . . . I DIED . . . 
  I'M MOVING . . . OH NO . . . I DIED . . . 
  
  It drived me insane! The gameplay is just one 
 of the worst I've seen on the DS. 
  You're in a war against some sort of creatures and it is a weird way to battle! It's like chess! 
 You have to take it in turns to move one of your guys and check mate them.
  First of all, there's no music to any of the levels. The only sound is the sound of footsteps, 
 a cheap sound a guns firing and a constant "I'M MOVING". 
  The touch screen isn't put into much good use either. You tap on a guy you want to move and draw 
 in the most stiff way a path for him to go. And let me tell you, you can't go very far. If you 
 have enough power you can shoot one of the enemy's guys. Once you have moved all your guys it's 
 the enemiy's turn and then you have to wait while your enemy completes his turn. AND THE ENEMY 
 TAKES IT'S TIME.
  There's a couple of good things though. There's Wi-Fi. Games like Guitar Hero on Tour and Mario 
 Party DS should have a Wi-Fi because it would be fun to do it on but surprisingly, this game has 
 it. I guess they had a lot of room for it! LOL Good luck finding someone to play with! But there's 
 always got to be someone.
  Another good thing is that if you've lost your stylus you can use the buttons! I actually prefer 
 it!
  Overall, this game stinks. 
  
  (Wow. That was my shortest OVERALL sentence I've ever written!)
  
  STORY --------3
  GAMEPLAY -----3
 
  GRAPHICS -----2
  SOUND --------1
  MULTIPLAYER -- 3
  OVERALL -----2.5 
::::::

::::::
UserName: greenbasilisk
Rating: 6
Date: Aug 14, 2008 6:41 am PT
Review:  Let me tell you. They really didn't even try to make this game good as compared to the PSP. The 
 graphics are very Atari 2600isk as is the sound.
  
  They easily could have made the graphics and sound comparable to that of the PSP. Which is proven 
 in other DS games, such as Ninja Gaiden, Zelda, NanoStray2, Metroid, etc. All and all, the gameplay 
 isn't that bad. Turn-based squad tactics.. Warhammer 40, 000 characters! But the visuals and voice-overs 
 and sound effects are just abysmal. Poor show THQ.. should've gave this game to Relic.. or should 
 I say nice half-ass job Red Lynx. Anyways.. if you have a PSP I would definitely say buy it ... If 
 you only have a DS like me... don't pay more than 10 bucks.
  
  Why do I need to write 800 words on a review??
  
  It doesn't need 800 characters!!
  
  oLO
 
  """ 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Zaku_Abumi118
Rating: 3.5
Date: Nov 4, 2008 8:36 am PT
Review:  When i first saw this game I had just finished playing Dawn of war and to be honest there is no 
 contest between the two. Dawn of war was fun, inovitive and really made Warhammer's name in the 
 Gameing industry. Squad commander couldn't be more different.
  First of all the controls and use of the duel screen's is cumbersom and difficult to use. The fact 
 that you can't rotate the camera add's to the users frustration.
  Compared to Dawn of war the Gameplay is more true to the Board game, that doesn't mean it's good. 
 the gameplay is slow and uniteresting and makes you feel like turning the game off quickly. Squad 
 commander also has none of the replay value that made Dawn of War so much fun.
  On the plus side the game has good Graphics and has some very good atwork to coverup the complete 
 lack of cutscenes.
  The sound is simple to describe becasue there isn't any. There is no music in this game so all 
 you get is the same two or three phrases repeated again and again with the ocasunal weapons sound 
 effect.
  The game does have some nice features like how close it is to the actual warhammer game, the secondry 
 weapons system yet these are all overshadowed by the games glareing omisions and bad side.
  The Games Workshop have shown they can do much better which add's to the gamers dissapointment. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: _AbBaNdOn
Rating: 8
Date: Jul 22, 2008 6:20 pm PT
Review:  FOR THE EMPEROR!!! Seriously if you havent heard of Games Workshop or their table-top wargames 
 like Warhammer 40k, Warhammer, Necromunda, Blood Bowl, and some of the others you should look them 
 up on the internet they make some really cool real world games.
  
  This game looks good and controls great but thats where the good things end. 
  
  Each mission 
 you get to take 6 predetermined units into battle. These can be scouts, space marines, TERMINATORS, 
 land speeders, Predator tanks, Dreadnaughts and some other stuff. Terminators are my favorite looking 
 unit in Warhammer 40k. Each type of unit comes with a default weapon thats usually a piece of crap 
 that cant kill anything but they have infinite ammo. You can also choose a secondary weapon that 
 can kill and blown up stuff real good but these carry a limited supply of ammo. You can increase 
 the ammo but it will give your soldiers less AP.
  
  This is the first part where the developers dropped the ball. You should have been able to choose 
 your own units at this point but that doesnt happen.
  
  The game only has 15 missions which makes it extremely short. The first half of the game is extremely 
 easy and lets you walk right through everything. Im on mission 10 or so now and I've started getting 
 my butt handed to me my first time through. However there is a total lack of offline randon battles. 
 You are stuck replaying missions with specific force if you play solo. There is an online/wireless 
 mode but whoop t do.
  
  Battlefields are really cool. Warhammer 40k has cool archetecture almost always and this game is 
 no exception. The cool part is all the buildings and terrain can be blown up. High walls can be 
 turned into rubble which creates low walls that you can hide behind and shoot over but those can 
 be blown up to and create new paths of movement or expose positions. For the most part its awesome 
 but you can occasionally run into an enemy who is behind a building and no matter what you do you 
 can not see him in order to shoot at him. It would have been nice to be able to rotate the camera 
 but I just nuke that area and knock down the walls.
  
  Anyways the battlefields are awesome and provide several paths and places to fight. Its possable 
 to try and flank or even come up from behind enemy positions on most maps. You could run your forces 
 into a corner and lay waste to the surrounding terrain to create a killing field if you wanted 
 to. There is a degree of freedom which is nice. Blowing up terrain sounds cool but its not easy. 
 It usually require ammo based weapons and although its cool to have a guy chainsword his way through 
 a wall, standing next to destroyed terrain usually injures people lol, only a little.
  
  One of the really bad things about this game is the AI. The enemy cheats. It knows where you are 
 for the most part and how much AP you have and if you have people on overwatch. If you have people 
 on overwatch they might try to send one guy through but the rest will stay back. Worse than that 
 though is the ability the enemy has to get into a position to shoot at you and then still have 
 AP's left to get back into cover or out of sight.
  
  Oh man another thing I hate about this game is that the camera is under your control on the enemie's 
 turn. The camera should have locked onto an active enemy and showed you what they were shooting 
 at. Instead you just see a ton of red dots moving and gunfire and you dont get to see any of the 
 action unless you happen to know who is going to be getting shot at.
  
  You usually have to move a little bit before you see an enemy and then you usually have to blow 
 all your AP's take out cover or just killing the people you see and you are left with no AP's and 
 your out in the open exposed. Its the Computer gets twice as much AP as you do. 
  
  They should have totally scrapped mission based gameplay and just created a more thorough random 
 battle system. I think Tom Clancy's EndWar game will revolutionize these types of games. They give 
 you points on the map to fight over and control. That would have been awesome in this game. They 
 have those in the table-top games. Being able to pick your own forces and gain experience would 
 have been nice too.
  
  Thier is a PC game called Epic Warhammer 40k: Total Annihilation and its a more large scale version 
 of what this game was. It would be hella sick if they fused the two games. You would have epic 
 and soldier based battles each turn.
  
  I would say this game is only a rental but there arent that many places that let you rent handheld 
 games. You definately should not buy this game. Its to short and lacks replay value unless you 
 have friends with DS's or can play online. it is worth playing though. Theres just no way in hell 
 its worth 30$. 
  
  Man a full complete versions of Games Workshop games would be so killer. I just want to see a Warhammer 
 game with a fat massive budget and a killer dev team.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: rtssam
Rating: 4
Date: Apr 22, 2008 9:27 am PT
Review:  Warhammer has been pretty successfull on the pc but can it live up to its name on the ds. The answer 
 is no because it does most things wrong and doesent have much replayability,
  
  the story is pretty bad because all it is is about the war against the space marines and chaos 
 and its getting pretty dull. The graphics are horrible pixelated and the enemies can blend into 
 the surroundings which can get irritating also the worst thing is the frame rate which has a major 
 slowdown when there's a explosion or something big onscreen, next is the voice acting thats good 
 some good dialogue but is acted out terribly like the actors weren't bothered. the camera is yes 
 another bad thing about this game which can make it impossible to shoot enemies because THE'RE 
 BEHIND A WALL AAAAAAAAHHHHHHHHHH!
  
  The controls are awkward because to do things you use energy points and the heavier the weapon 
 the less points you have to move. The combat is again awkward because to shoot the enemy you need 
 to line up a colours which is as bad as it sounds. There are some good things thought including 
 the feeling of relief after you finish a mission in the short campaign and it's cool when you kill 
 someone with a chainsaw, sadly that's the only good things about this game.
  
  In terms of taking full use of the ds it loses miserably because you never use the touch screen 
 and the top screen is a map which is completely useless and it only helps when you can't see a 
 enemy and need to look up to see where it is. all in all this is a broken game becuase of a lack 
 of skirmish and technical issues and could be recomended only to hardcore warhammer fans
  
  gameplay-5
  graphics-3
  sound-3
  value-3
  story-5 
::::::

::::::
UserName: fellclaw01
Rating: 5.5
Date: Mar 9, 2008 5:02 pm PT
Review:  I am a huge 40K fan so I am biased in this review and have had a lot of fun with this game. I actually 
 dont mind the technical aspects fo this game too much (ie the graphics, viewpoint and the control 
 method) . I have played this game quite a bit so I defintely got my moneys worth, therefore I can 
 recommend this to 40k fans who can get over the afore mentioned technical aspects of this game. 
 For non fans I wouldnt bother.
  
  Anyway my main critisms of this game are in relation to the game design. Pretty much all of the 
 basic weapons are crap so you end up giving all your space marines plasma guns (probably the best 
 weapon in the games) , the best weapon to give terminators are flamers etc, etc. It really removes 
 the 'tactical' element from the game somewhat. It would have been better had they restircted the 
 heavy/special weapons to one member of the squad and up the power of the basic weapons. 
  
  Why do close combat attacks count as an extra weapon?
  
  Also even worse is the vehicles, one 
 thing I love about the tabletop game was how they modeled the way armour works. In this vehicles 
 can be damaged by any weapon (i can forgive this in Dawn of war because its RTS and actually works 
 quite well) so instead of troops advancing behind tanks as they often do in real warfare there 
 just giant tragets that can get whittled away by bolter fire meaning you have to be much more cauious 
 with these vehicles. It would have been much better to only allow certain weapons to actually hurt 
 these (like the actual game) and if your desperate force players to use krak grenades ti assualt 
 tanks.
  
  Only for the most hardcore of the hardcore fans
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Gardevoir_1993
Rating: 8
Date: Feb 18, 2008 10:58 am PT
Review:  The good: SPACE MARINES!!!, Loads of options, fun, GREY KNIGHTS!!!, vehicles, authenticity
  
  The bad: No real customisation, only story mode, some weapons are too over/under- powered
 
  
  Review: Squad Command overall is a fairly good strategy game. Fans of 40k, such as myself, will 
 enjoy it more as you get to use Space Marines and Grey Knights and fight in those impossible-odds 
 battles the background is littered with. The sheer variety of weapons also allows for many tactical 
 approaches so it isn't jusi guiding you in one direction. The vehicles, especially Dreadnoughts 
 also shine like they should, though the Land raider is a little disappointing. However, barring 
 the selection of weapons, you can't pick your squad and story is the only mode. Also, some weapons 
 are way over or under powered. For instance, it takes a turn's bolter ammo to slay a chaos marine 
 but one chainsword swing does it, and psycannons are supposed to fry brains but spectacularly fail 
 to do that. So although it is good, those flaws really do bring it down a fair bit. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: fishguts108
Rating: 7
Date: Feb 9, 2008 2:32 pm PT
Review:  Before I continue, I am a Warhammer 40k player and enjoy every aspect of the 'universe' portrayed; 
 hence I am positively bias towards any offspring it may give birth to. However, this game does 
 deserve the low scores it has been receiving.
  
  When I bought the game I expected the worst; a game that had shoddy controls, lagged like hell 
 and terrain that looked like it had been smeared with manure. Well, thats how it has been portrayed 
 by many a reviewer. I was disappointed in the lack of an interactive tutorial, but I got the hang 
 of the controls reasonably quickly (D-Pad for those who are wondering, I've never been overly good 
 with the stylus) . Several shredded cultists later I saw that this game would provide many hours 
 of bolter filled action; I was correct.
  
  The graphics leave much to be desired, but they are not as bad as others say; I feel like I'm in 
 a ruined city or outpost rather than a cespool. The textures are quite bland and there is a recurrent 
 trend in colours, but this is Warhammer 40k; you'd be bland and lifeless if you'd had the living 
 crap shelled out of you too. 
  
  The sound is satisfactory, simply put. The music is shocking, I'd rather listen to nails on a chalkboard. 
 However, the sounds and occasional ambient are good; I enjoy listening to distant firing and suddenly 
 realising that one of my scouts has just been torn apart by concentrated fire. Although personally 
 I would prefer more ambients to add to the atmosphere, its a case of each to their own.
  
  I have mixed feelings in regards to the controls. The stylus gives precision, but allows too much 
 room for error; while the D-Pad can seem cumbersome at times and isn't entirely precise. This doesn't 
 bother me, as it doesn't affect gameplay other than spending a few extra seconds trying to achieve 
 precision. In saying this, those few extra seconds can mean a lot in multiplayer.
  
  I haven't finished the single player campaign yet; unfortunately life and other gaming commitments 
 restrict that. What I have seen though foreshadows promise. Sure, the simple objectives of each 
 mission and the recurring feel of being outnumbered may become monotinous; but thats life as an 
 Astarte. Deploy at point A, capture point C moving via point B and engage any hostiles. Simple. 
 I don't see what the problem is; at least you don't have limited time to take a turn in single 
 player.
  
  Which leads me onto multiplayer. DS Download Play is bland, as per usual. I haven't tried Multicard 
 Play yet, but I hope to in the next two weeks. However, what I have played of DS Download Play 
 shows promise for Multicard Play. A wider selection of weapons and various units alongside different 
 maps will make for a good game, especially with multiple players (in other words, more than two) . 
 I just hope it doesn't dissapoint.
  
  My last main point, weapons. I have no qualms with what is inside the game... except for one. The 
 plasma gun. I seem to remember this weapon hurling a molten glob of plasma at a foe which would 
 then eat through their armour and then them. I also remember it occasionally overheating or even 
 exploding. The latter options I can handle being absent. Since when has a plasma gun ever fired 
 explosive projectiles and had a blast radius! The plasma cannon does that, not the plasma gun! 
 This weapon has been over-powered to buggery; who needs any ordinance or missile launchers when 
 you can just have a constant flurry of exploding plasma tearing the map apart? My major qualm about 
 this game is with the plasma gun... as sad, simple and arguably pathetic as it may seem.
  
  Sure, the game does fall short on many fronts, but it doesn't fail; it just underachieves. I understand 
 that people may not believe they got their money's worth, but they should know what they are in 
 for. This is nothing like Fire Warrior, Dawn of War or even Advance Wars! This is on a smaller 
 scale than Advance Wars, this focuses on one squad while Dawn of War focuses on the army and this 
 is a stratergy game, not a first-person-shooter! The DS doesn't support the Unreal Engine 3 nor 
 any other 'revelutionary' engines; it makes do with what it has. It shows promise and should be 
 given a chance; not all games instantly grab hold of the player and shakes them until they have 
 a seizure. As the classification says, "Grows on you" which is exactly what this game does. If 
 you are into stratergy then give it a shot, if not then its up to you. Hell, rent it or borrow 
 it from a mate if you are unsure. Just don't expect a perfect game, expect a fun game that requires 
 you to think. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: -P4R4D0X-
Rating: 4
Date: Feb 6, 2008 9:12 pm PT
Review:  Put quite simply, a Warhammer strategy game should not be bad. Games Workshop's entire business 
 revolves around both modelling and hobby, and STRATEGY. That fact is the major reason why it is 
 so disappointing to see a bad Warhammer strategy game.
  
  I never actually bothered to finish the game. I got about 4 or 5 missions in, to the point where 
 I got a predator in my "squad" (for some bizarre unknown reason) , then threw the game back in the 
 case and didnt bother thinking about it again until now.
  
  The control system was.... strange. It made it hard to even try to enjoy the game. I sympathise 
 with them trying to use the touch screen interface, but really, they didn't pull it off. Also going 
 by the DS hardware, the second screen is more or less useless in the way they configured it.
  
  Selecting your troops is done in a way that makes it more difficult than it needs to be. Sure, 
 clicking on them with the stylus over the side is easy, but I lost count of how many times i clicked 
 one guy and told him to move, while not noticing that Id accidently selected 2 or more of my marines 
 and ended up having a soldier on the other side of the map charging head first into enemy positions, 
 only to get dropped instantly by an incredible number of chaos marines with plasma cannons.
  
  This happened to me so many times there is no way that I can see that design feature as worthwhile. 
 
  
  The camera was, quite frankly, annoying. It moves WAY too fast over the battlefield, and I never 
 got the hang of moving it without accidentally moving one of my soldiers. A tip for strategy game 
 design, DONT make the camera controls and the unit movement controls the same thing. It doesnt 
 work.
  
  A final bad point before I get onto the one good point I found. The game tries to go too far away 
 from the strong rule base that Games Workshop have. The fact that this is a SQUAD COMMAND game, 
 should, really, mean that you don't get access to vehicles. Why? Vehicles are not part of a squad! 
 Especially not Predators. Also, You can move and fire a sniper rifle, or any other heavy weapon, 
 in the same turn. If your going by a turn based game attempting to maintain a tie with the tabletop 
 system, the rules of the tabletop system should be observed. Your inability to CHOOSE what you 
 units you have in your "squad" is also a bad thing. You cannot have a squad with 4 scouts and 2 
 marines. It cant happen. The rules dont allow it.
  
  Maybe I am too much of a stickler for the rules, but I dont think this game would have any chance 
 appealing to anybody who doesnt know warhammer, and I cant see how anybody who does can enjoy a 
 game that completely throws everything about the system other than the units out the window.
  
  Now... the one piece of praise I have for the game. The destructible terrain. This, to me, was 
 the only thing that really felt like Warhammer 40K at all. The fact that I could flatten the ruined 
 city to get to my enemies if I needed to. It is the only thing in the game that shows the carnage 
 and destruction that 40K is meant to have.
  
  This felt like a trimmed down, 40K themed, DS port of Company of Heroes that only succeeded in 
 being trimmed down. It fails in delivering the 40K experience, and even a strategic experience, 
 as I found a shot from a plasma cannon invariably wiped out anything it hit near, including your 
 own men.
  
  Basically, If you want a DS strategy game, look elsewhere. If you want a good Warhammer 40K game, 
 buy Dawn of War. I give it a 4, because there is no possible way it deserves anything more than 
 that. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: L8erSquare
Rating: 7
Date: Jan 9, 2008 11:47 am PT
Review:  The Warhammer series have been great is real time strategy video games but this turn base Warhammer 
 was a let down. The cut scenes are still images found on the upper screen, while the lower screen 
 had the games story in text. The text is hard to read with its small font size and colors that 
 would not allow the words to stand out from the background. I found the use of the stylus to be 
 rather frustrating and that its easier to use the buttons to control the squad. Another problem 
 that i ran into was that the characters would get stuck on one another and no longer be able to 
 move around the battle field. In a dumb way its a good thing because it forces you to keep your 
 troops spreed out and less likely to get them all wiped out by one bomb explosion. The game also 
 has too many loading screens for a cartridge game... getting to the main menu, loading screen, 
 viewing a cut scene, loading screen, going to select your squad, loading screen, getting to the 
 battle field, loading screen. Do you see this? These are my eye lids closing from boredom. However 
 underneath its low poly, simple textures, poor programing Warhammer 40000: Squad Command is still 
 a lot of fun and enjoyable gaming experience if you can look past all of it faults. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ReStLesslayer
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jan 9, 2008 9:15 am PT
Review:  Warhammer has a long history it began all with the plastic figurines and after a while somebody 
 decided woah this is great on a computer so the series got on the computer as a strategy game ain`t 
 that cool.
  Now we can play warhammer where ever we like to Yippie.
  The strategy thingy is hard to use in the very beginning in the game but you get pretty fast used 
 to, it that the game doesn`t always does waht you want.
  I will explain myself. You have drag with the stylus because the button controls work like **** 
 if you need them. You tap one of your units and move to a point where you want them to have standing 
 in either guard or aggressive stance. Than you select your other unit and do the same thing all 
 over again the movement is limited due to Action points wich you`ll spend on walking and shooting, 
 you gain them in your next turn. That sounds familar yes it`s just like Advance Wars in the core 
 meaning of the game only the liscense and the incredible graphics mask this.
  The graphics is something I don`t really complain about it looks fantastic though your DS sometimes 
 gonna have some trouble with the frame rate but it looks awesome.
  my verdict is a mediocore to good game because it is one of the few good strategy games on the 
 DS. And the awesome graphics of course makes this game even more like a pc version of warhmammer 
 wich isn`t a bad thing. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: spotaflint33
Rating: 8
Date: Dec 21, 2007 10:35 am PT
Review:  First off I am biased in buying this game as I am a 40k player. That being said it is still appealing 
 to me as a strategy player though. The DS version sacrifices a bit on graphics and movies for the 
 use of 2 screens and a touch screen. The DS version has the overhead map fully visible at all times 
 on the top screen so you can see where your units are. You can also use the touch screen instead 
 of the buttons, but I don't like using the stylus much, so I don't It does make things easier if 
 you forget the controls though. 
  
  The graphics aren't bad, but they aren't great. I would have used for more zooming, but once again 
 just me. As for the sound well i don't do protable sound so no idea. 
  
  The main point for this is the download and play function for the game where you can play with 
 1 friend who doesn't have the cart or many who do via broadband. It is a good strategy game with 
 some interesting ideas. Finally my one big problem is the introductory tutorial mission, just instal 
 a mode or a pre mission, don't waste a level telling me how to play. It is also very intuitive 
 though as my friend and i played with only a half baked control understnading. So it is fun, it 
 just has some surface issues for me. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: massconquer
Rating: 8
Date: Jan 8, 2008 12:34 pm PT
Review:  Another Warhammer 40k strategy game, but wait! This is not a strategy game, it's a turn-based strategy 
 game! :O They tried and used a very new idea that other Warhammer games didn't have which turned 
 out great. I can't see exactly how it fits into the Warhammer series (I own Dawn of War and Winter 
 Assault) , but they seem to try a new story line with just the Space Marines and the Chaos Marines.
 
  Pros:
  -Detailed characters and buildings
  -Explosive environments (it means u can destroy whatever you see)
  -Selectable weapons (4 if 
 you're a space marine)
  -Good audio which really suites the characters
  -Able to change stances therefore making them a lesser threat.
  There aren't much cons about 
 this game because Warhammer is one of the best stratrgy games and they tried really hard and used 
 a lot of time making it.
  Cons:
  -You only can control a maximum of 6 people.
  -You can't actually choose your characters, the mission chooses it for you (you use scouts, marines, 
 and some tank as far as I know)
  -Some weapons are cheap like the plasma rifle, it does huge amounts of damage in a wide area.
 
  -AI are somewhat annoying, they know where you are all the time.
  -No video at all, they must minipulate the pictures a bit.
  A great game, just like Fire Emblem 
 Path of Radience instead of moving in blocks and having a limited range, you use something called 
 "Action Points" which are used for almost everything from walking to shooting to getting more accurate. 
 Anywho, it's a good game which can keep you entertained for quite a while. If you like the Warhammer 
 40K games, this is a keeper, but if you want to know more about the story-line, this is not for 
 you. I recommend it, and I hope others also. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
