-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: WarioWare: Snapped!
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/ds/puzzle/wariowaresnapped/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 Goofy WarioWare sense of humor intact.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 Only a handful of microgames available.
 Camera sensitivity can be flaky.
 Poor value for money.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Apr  3, 2009
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 4
Critic Score: 5.1, 9 Review (s)
User Score: 5.6, 76 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Nintendo
Developer: Intelligent Sys.
Genre: Puzzle
Date: Apr 5, 2009

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
These microgames are so brief that you spend more time wrestling with the camera than you do actually 
 playing. 

  AU REVIEW -- WarioWare: Snapped is one of the first DSiWare games to use the new handheld's built-in 
 camera, and it will have you striking many strange poses to complete its various microgame challenges. 
 But while it may be a good way to show off the DSi's unique capabilities, it's also sorely lacking 
 in variety, resulting in a game that probably won't hold your interest past the 20 minutes it'll 
 take to play through it the first time.  

           Something vaguely resembling your silhouette will appear on the DSi's top screen.     

  Of course, shallow has historically been an apt way to describe the WarioWare series and its weird 
 microgames. But where previous games at least had dozens of different microgame challenges to keep 
 you interested, Snapped brings only about 20 to the table. You'll breeze through these in no time, 
 and with no ramping difficulty, there's no reason to go back to them again. To play Snapped, you'll 
 have to place the DSi on a flat surface (like a table or chair) in front of you, with the top half 
 of the handheld opened to about a 120-degree angle. The different microgames will require you to 
 move your head, wave your hands, blow at the screen, and more, so this is definitely not a game 
 you'll be able to play whilst on some sort of public transport.  

  The microgames themselves range from the cute (placing your hands in front of your face and playing 
 peekaboo with a baby) to the gross (sticking your two fingers up a large nose) , and all exhibit 
 the same simple graphics and wacky charm of previous WarioWare games. The top DSi screen will show 
 your silhouette, giving you an indication of where your hands and head should be for any particular 
 game. Most of the 20 games involve just one player, but five of them require you to play alongside 
 a partner. The microgames are grouped into sets of five, and upon completing each set, you're treated 
 to a slide show of stills and shorts the DSi has taken of you while playing. Sadly, you can't save 
 these candid shots, which is a pity, because some of the images caught while you're pulling faces 
 and contorting can be really funny.  

  You have only a short time in which to complete the required movements, but Snapped isn't particularly 
 tough in this regard. In fact, Snapped isn't tough at all because most of the microgames are easy 
 to beat. What will probably trouble you more is the game's camera calibration. Snapped plays well 
 under most bright lighting conditions, but it works poorly in low-lit rooms. It can also flake 
 out occasionally even in bright areas, at which point it becomes necessary to reposition either 
 the DSi or yourself so the camera can get a better reading.  

           The microgames don't last long. And neither does Snapped.      

  WarioWare: Snapped 
 has plenty of the undeniable charm and goofiness the series is known for. But it simply doesn't 
 last long enough for its asking price, and apart from making your friends play it for cheap laughs, 
 there's no replayability here. You can get much better value from your 500 Nintendo points than 
 spending them on Snapped.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (6 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: BlackSamvara
Rating: 4
Date: Apr 19, 2009 10:43 pm PT
Review:  It's no secret that I'm an avid WarioWare fan. Since the original coined the term "Micro game" 
 and ushered in a plethora of similarly themed games I've always been interested. While the original 
 WarioWare had it's under 10 second mini-games, the series has always managed to take it's unique 
 formula into new directions that might at times seem odd or unorthodox.
  
  With "WarioWare: Twisted" the game included a Gyro Sensor that would register motions you made 
 with you're GBA to control the actions happening in the game. "WarioWare: Touched" took advantage 
 of the DS's unique features (I. E. Touch Screen Control, Mic Recognition) and "WarioWare: Smooth 
 Moves" used the Wii's motion sensing to create a "Similar to Twisted" experience, But yet was still 
 all new. The things that these games have in common is that while trying something new for the 
 most part each time, It has always worked pretty well, At least to my satisfaction... So what's 
 the difference between this latest addition and the others? Allow me to indulge.
  
  When "WarioWare: Snapped" was first announced it seemed to me that this would be a fitting addition 
 to the franchise. After all, Very much like the previous iterations this version was taking advantage 
 of the unique and current hardware of the time. In this case it was the DSi. The game uses the 
 inner camera of the DSi to register you're image and motions, effectively putting you in the game. 
 It's not too different a concept from what the Eye Toy was offering on the PS2 a number of years 
 back, But we all knew that it would have that "WarioWare Charm". When you watch the game in action 
 and read it in writing it seems like a shoe-in, But the reality of the situation is much different.
 
  
  While it's true that the mini games still retain that certain charm and style, the controls are 
 essentially broken. For every three or four mini games that you make it through, there's another 
 four or five that inexplicably won't register. Part of this issue is the DSi's ultimate need for 
 the perfect lighting. Because the game won't let you play until you get the camera properly calibrated, 
 (You hold a pose in front of the camera while it reads the lighting and compares you're skin contrast 
 to the background) you wind up sometimes having to move to a more sufficient area to register, 
 or you're flat out denied the ability to play the game. It was pretty disheartening to have the 
 game reject my playing two or three times in a row. That brings me to the other issue, If at any 
 time the game ceases to recognize you it will abruptly boot you out of the game and back to the 
 title screen with a somewhat crazy "Warning" Screen. The first time you see it you'll wonder if 
 perhaps you're DSi is busted or something! 
  
  My other issue is the extremely limited number of mini games available here. There's only a grand 
 total of Twenty mini games, Five for each of the Four characters present (Which fans of the series 
 will immediately be familiar with, No new faces here!) With Kat and Ana's set of mini games requiring 
 two people to play. There is a rather enjoyable mini game that you can play while watching the 
 credits which in it's own right could have been a standalone game.. It's pretty entertaining. Still 
 though, The whole experience only lasts for about a half hour at that, and with the wacky control 
 issues you'd be hard pressed to play it more than a few times.
  
  While it's true that there is some interesting fun to be had when things work right, (particularly 
 watching the crazy slide show of funny faces or odd movements you might make during you're game 
 time at the end of a set of games) For the most part, the inaccurate controls and confusion of 
 some of the mini games bog this entry down. For 500 Nintendo points, it's still pretty cheap, But 
 in all honesty I can't recommend picking it up. However, If you're a fan of the series and want 
 a bit of a showpiece to demonstrate the unique aspects of the DSi, then sure, By all means check 
 it out. But just be prepared to spend some time getting things to calibrate. 
  
  Overall Score 4/10
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: blankshore
Rating: 4
Date: Apr 19, 2009 7:56 pm PT
Review:  I got this for free, but I still feel ripped off. While the great sense of humor and funny visuals 
 are still there, this is pretty much everything a WarioWare game shouldn't be. Unimaginably short, 
 almost impossible to play with practically no replay value whatsoever.
  
  I've got this game to work maybe 5 out of 20 times. Not good. It rarely registers my face, and 
 when it does it misreads my movements. There's only 20 microgames to play -- a considerable step 
 down from the usual 250 you get in a WarioWare game. This means I've spent more time trying to 
 get the bloody camera to work than I have actually playing the game. That being said, the game 
 is still good for a few laughs. The game leaves you wanting more, but there simply isn't any. As 
 a huge WarioWare fan, consider me dissapointed.
  
  Even though you can get it using your free DSi points, there are better ways to spend 500 points. 
 Stay away from this broken mess. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SSBFan12
Rating: 4
Date: Apr 10, 2009 10:33 am PT
Review:  In this WarioWare game for the DSi you play four microminigames using the camera. The microminigames 
 are a bit hard to play because at the start of each minigame you have line yourselve up with a 
 shadow on the game and most of the time it deosn't even line up and you fail the minigame. There 
 are not really that much minigames and they are hard because of the camera. Some of the minigames 
 you do is eat a chicken by pretending you are eating something. Another minigame is one that you 
 will drink water and you have to tip your head back but sometimes it just won't do anything.
  
  You might be wondering what camera you use for this game because the DSi does have two cameras. 
 You use the camera that is below the top screen and above the bottom screen. The game does have 
 the humor like another Wario games do. But that is the only thing that is a good thing about the 
 game because using the camera for the minigames are a bit complicated and a bit hard.
  
  The good of the game is that there is humor in the game.
  
  The bad of the game is the minigames 
 are way to complicated. The camera does screw up most of the time. Not that much microminigames 
 in the game.
  
  Overall this game is not a good game to get for anyone. Wario Ware fans will be really disappointed 
 when they play this game. I rate this game 4.0 outta 10. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: videogamr49
Rating: 7
Date: Apr 6, 2009 1:11 pm PT
Review:  Wario Ware has always been about playing microgames one after the other while the difficulty and 
 speed increases. Wario Ware on the DSi, however, doesn't have that aspect. Instead, it takes five 
 microgames (out of a total of 20 micro games) and has you act out moves on the camera in order 
 to clear each microgame. There is not really much of a challenge at all because the game gives 
 you more than enough time to clear a challenge and set up your posture for the next microgame. 
 After you clear those five microgames, that's it, the game is over, however, the next part can 
 be just as fun as the microgames themselves.
  
  Depending on which character you chose to play the games with (Mona, Wario, Kat and Ana, or Jimmy 
 T) the results at the end of the microgames will differ. What basically happens is your movements, 
 that are recorded during each microgame, are then added to a small slideshow at the end, which 
 either shows you what you did or puts you in random situations that you can't help but laugh at.
 
  
  For example, choosing Jimmy T will put your movements into a comic book slideshow where it goes 
 through a quick story of you posing for a picture or trying to ask a girl out on a date. The results 
 are hilarious. In a way, the microgames aren't just for playing the game, but instead they set 
 you up for each scenario. I find the slideshows at the end to be extremely funny. You will find 
 a lot of fun in playing the game over and over again with different people just to see how the 
 slideshow ends up.
  
  Now, the biggest gripe I have about this game is not how short it is, but the camera doesn't always 
 recognize your posture even where the room's lighting might seem ideal. In most cases, I've been 
 able to get the camera to register my movements and play out the game. However, there will be times 
 where you may find a good lighting environment, but one microgame might not be able to see your 
 movement. Also, the camera might not even recognize your posture at all, which can be frustrating. 
 At times, you will be trying to find the perfect spot to play the game where there are no problems 
 with the camera. However, I still always find a spot where to play the game so it's certainly not 
 unplayable.
  
  Overall, at $5 I highly recommend it because of all the laughs you get from the slideshow at the 
 end and as a cool piece of software to show your friends what the DSi can do. Although the game 
 is short, the game will certainly bring laughs. But remember, once you see the 20 microgames, there 
 is nothing beyond that to enhance the replay value. I really hope to see this concept put into 
 a full WarioWare game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: k_smoove
Rating: 6
Date: Apr 5, 2009 2:19 pm PT
Review:  What's Good:
  
  -It's fun when it works
  As simple as Snapped's gameplay is, there's no denying that its legitimately fun. Shaking your 
 head and waving your arms wildly actually ends up being surprisingly entertaining. Just make sure 
 that your poses get recognized.
  
  -It takes photos of you while you're playing
  As my bullet point suggests, Snapped takes several pictures of you while you play, and then creates 
 a slideshow for you at the end of the microgame sets. These pictures are very fun to watch, and 
 they really make you feel like a fool.
  
  What's Bad:
  
  -It's a pain to set up
  Snapped is entirely dependent on the lighting and background surrounding you in real life. This 
 makes playing the game a total hassle in some cases, especially if your skin color is similar to 
 your wall color, or if there are objects such as ceiling fans behind you.
  
  -It's extremely short
  Snapped features four sets of five microgames that repeat in random order. 
 That wouldn't be so bad, if the microgames weren't literally over in seconds. Setup time aside, 
 you'll see everything Snapped has to offer in under ten minutes. However, this is the kind of game 
 that you'll want to show to your friends and family, so the replay value is actually pretty high.
 
  
  Final Verdict:
  
  Warioware: Snapped! could have been so much more than it ended up being. It's a pain in the neck 
 to set up, but it's also really fun when it actually works. Had the price been closer to 200 points 
 instead of 500, I could definitely recommend it to anyone. At its current price point, I can only 
 recommend it to hardcore Warioware fans and people looking for a silly game to show off to their 
 family and friends. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DaMonkeyAttack
Rating: 4.5
Date: Apr 5, 2009 1:47 pm PT
Review:  This is Damonkeyattack with a game Review Of the game Wario Ware : Snapped For the Ds . I have 
 try out this Game as a Demo for 500 Point So i try out this game it was Bad. The game is very hard 
 for the camera to work Right in the game. when you play the game you try to move your head or hand 
 as the game is play.
  
  the camera won't work unless you have good color of the Room or where ever you are playing at. 
 the Control of moving your head or face in the game is hard beside the 120 that you have to do 
 while playing the game and not shaking it is very hard to handle.
  
  the game is not bad but they could just make another wario ware version like on the game boy. if 
 you wanna try this game then you can spent your 500 point on this but if you don't like game that 
 confusing and camera problem then i say don't try out this game. thanks for reading my review i 
 hope it made sense. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
