-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Wario: Master of Disguise
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/ds/action/kaitouwario/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 Isn't just another run-and-jump platformer.
 using the stylus to change costumes and use abilities is an interesting concept.
 each room is a puzzle requiring multiple costume changes.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 Stylus controls don't allow anything that couldn't just as easily have been done with buttons.
 stylus controls are also inaccurate in situations where you have to draw quickly.
 the same situations and minigames are recycled to the point that your brain will go numb.
 an hour to finish a single tomb feels excessive.
 lacks the usual Nintendo polish and bonus modes.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Mar  5, 2007
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 6.1
Critic Score: 6.2, 39 Review (s)
User Score: 6.8, 309 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Nintendo
Developer: Suzak
Genre: Action
Date: Mar 5, 2007
ESRB: Everyone 10+

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Wario: Master of Disguise is a passable puzzler, but it lacks polish, and the touch-screen controls 
 weren't necessary. 

  With Wario: Master of Disguise, Nintendo has once again put one of its mascot characters in a game 
 that emphasizes the use of the touch screen on the Nintendo DS. This time around, Wario takes center 
 stage in a puzzle game that at first glance looks like a traditional side-scrolling platformer. 
 However, the game isn't like any of the Wario Land games because jumping and pouncing take a back 
 seat to figuring out the proper mix of abilities to get past the puzzling obstacles. These obstacles 
 are so plentiful that levels often require 30 minutes to one hour to finish. This change in style 
 is one reason fans aren't as likely to embrace Wario: Master of Disguise as strongly as Kirby: 
 Canvas Curse. Another reason is that the touch screen doesn't enable you to do anything that couldn't 
 just as easily have been accomplished by pushing a button; quite often, the touch-screen controls 
 aren't as intuitive or accurate as pressing a button.  

          In Wario: Master of Disguise, you use the touch screen to change costumes and aim Wario's 
 magical abilities.     

  Wario's latest bizarre scheme to get rich quick lands him in the fictional world of a TV show centered 
 around a thief named the Silver Zephyr who uses a magic wand to outfit himself with various disguises 
 and superpowers. Inevitably, Wario steals the wand and becomes the self-proclaimed Purple Wind, 
 adopting the motto "silent but deadly." That's the only fart joke in the game, but it's said frequently. 
 After swiping the wand, Wario and the demoralized Zephyr learn about the existence of another powerful 
 object called the wishstone, which has been broken into pieces and scattered in various tombs around 
 the world. Both characters set out to collect the pieces, and Wario further promises to loot any 
 treasure he finds along the way.  

  In each of the game's 10 episodes, your job is to get Wario through a different mazelike tomb, 
 jimmy open any treasure chests you find, and deal with whatever creatures or bosses you encounter. 
 Thanks to the wand, Wario can change into any of eight different disguises, which afford him unique 
 abilities. For example, the space suit lets you shoot laser blasts, whereas the artist costume 
 lets you conjure stone blocks out of thin air. Movement is handled with the D pad, but all other 
 actions involve the touch screen. When you want Wario to wear a different disguise, you have to 
 draw a particular symbol around him. To direct laser blasts, conjure blocks, or perform other actions, 
 you have to tap or draw on the touch screen. There's some basic creature pouncing and platform 
 jumping in every tomb, but what you'll be doing most often is alternating the use of Wario's different 
 abilities to break obstacles, plug up gaps in the floor, and locate and activate a wide range of 
 switches, platforms, and doorways.  

  Even though the game looks like any other side-scrolling platformer, it is a puzzle game in every 
 sense of the term. The rooms, tunnels, and interconnected doors inside each tomb are laid out like 
 mazes, while each room is an individual puzzle of its own. In a typical room, you'll use the artist 
 costume to create blocks to reach an elevated platform, switch to the dragon costume to use its 
 flame breath to light a torch that causes the platform to move, and then put on the genius outfit 
 so that you can see and land on the invisible outcropping up ahead. The next room may have you 
 smashing through walls, melting pillars of ice, and swimming underwater. On top of all that, you'll 
 frequently come across treasure chests, which lead to minigames when you try to open them. The 
 minigames also employ the use of the touch screen and involve tasks such as rearranging a slide 
 puzzle, tracing a small maze, or coloring an image in a short amount of time.  

  Wario: Master of Disguise isn't a platformer or microgame collection like Wario's other games. 
 While that's bound to put some people off, the game's real problem is that it stops being interesting 
 after about an hour. Cutting down a chandelier with a laser is cool the first couple of times you 
 do it but not the 100th time. By the third or fourth episode, you've interacted with the same objects 
 and experienced the same set of eight minigames so frequently that the process of switching costumes 
 and using the stylus becomes rote. Also, the game often feels tedious because there are so many 
 puzzles and minigames in each tomb that it can take 30 minutes to an hour to complete an episode. 
 Thankfully, the liberal placement of save markers means you can take a break if you like. The touch-screen 
 controls probably weren't necessary and sometimes make the game more frustrating. In Kirby: Canvas 
 Curse, drawing rainbows and capturing enemies was interesting because that stuff was possible only 
 with the touch screen. In Wario: Master of Disguise, changing costumes and using abilities are 
 the same sorts of things we've been doing for years in other games that use buttons for input. 
 To complicate matters, the game has trouble interpreting the symbols you draw when you jot them 
 too quickly or don't draw them in just the right way. It's usually not an issue, but it becomes 
 an issue in rooms or boss battles that require you to switch disguises quickly. Transforming into 
 the pirate captain when you wanted to transform into the space suit is not what you want to have 
 happen when you need to fire off a quick laser blast.  

  Master of Disguise also has a few graphical flaws. Wario has a good variety of goofy animations, 
 but the creatures and objects inside each tomb are plain and usually have only one stiff attack 
 animation in addition to their basic walking animation. Backgrounds are colorful and have some 
 nice animated details, but what you'll notice the most are the flat floors, spikes, and cookie-cutter 
 switches that decorate the majority of rooms. One of the reasons the minigames are so tiresome 
 is that they're all put together with a static background and with simple symbols and objects that 
 usually don't move, apart from when you're physically dragging them across the screen. Audio fares 
 a little better mainly because the music is sufficiently catchy and fits the theme of each environment. 
 Sound effects are generic, although you'll hear a few recorded screams and Wario comments here 
 and there as well. If it weren't for Wario's sprite and the amusing conversations that occur before 
 and after each episode, you wouldn't know that Nintendo had a hand in the game at all.  

          Each tomb can take an hour to get through. Your patience will further be tested by seeing 
 the same objects and minigames recycled countless times along the way.     

  It will take you about 10 to 15 hours to complete the main quest, which means the game is certainly 
 as lengthy as any other Nintendo product. However, the bonuses and extras typical of Nintendo's 
 games are missing. You can replay episodes to set better times and collect the treasures you missed 
 to improve your rank and see an extended ending, but that's it for extras. Nintendo didn't even 
 bother to include a competitive multiplayer mode, which is surprising because most Nintendo-published 
 games have that feature.  

  When you weigh all the pros and cons, Wario: Master of Disguise is a passable puzzler that might 
 tickle your fancy if you've felt deeply passionate about spatial puzzlers, such as The Lost Vikings 
 or Exit, in the past. However, keep in mind that the game recycles the same puzzle situations and 
 minigames frequently, and the touch-screen controls don't do much to elevate the experience. For 
 those reasons and the overall lack of polish, most people will probably be better off avoiding 
 Wario: Master of Disguise.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (25 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: uriyasama
Rating: 5.5
Date: Jan 8, 2009 3:26 am PT
Review:  wario MOD was meant to be a great puzzle platformer but, because of a mix of broken ds gimmicks 
 a complicated broken puzzle game and a great wario platformer, it wasn't great after all.
  
  the game's idea is to "help" wario find the wishstone which is supposed to grant wishes (surprisingly) 
 but to make the story longer before more than 400 years ago Pharaoh splited the tablets into 5 
 pieces (what a great twist) . with the help of a wand named Goodstyle that he stole from a guy named 
 Canoli, who is Wario's rival in this game, who seek's Goodstyle back and the wishstone too.
  
  The gameplay :
  
  The game itself is a platformer with touch screen and mic controls such 
 as changing disguises shooting laser flying drawing boxes and more
  but as i said with a great Wario platformer and some great puzzles comes the bad part touch screen 
 annoying repeatable minigames bad touch screen controls and puzzles with huge bugs that make the 
 game almost un-passable but beside the bugs the gameplay itself is pretty good
  
  The sound : 
  
  Well theres almost nothing to say about it, its nothing special which means 
 its not good but not annoying as in most games
  
  ill continue soon
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: PunkInATrunk
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 26, 2008 3:54 pm PT
Review:  This game was so sweet. First, it's already cool that you can change from character to character 
 in order to complete each level, but I love the idea of this game. I mean who else would have thought 
 of this idea besides Nintendo! You have to give them some credit. Second, the game isn't just a 
 game you can finish in a day. Once you finish the story, you can go back and collect all the treasures. It 
 might just be me, but i hate games the are too short. And finally, this game is amazing because 
 it's fast paced. There are bosses that you need to change fast or just any enemies that you need 
 to defeat. There are some bad things about this game though. First, once you collect most of the 
 costumes you'll notice that a lot of the symbols to use the costumes are relatively the same and 
 the game will get confused often. Example: Cosmic Wario's symbol is a circle around his head (Astronaut 
 helmet) and Genius Wario's symbol is a circle with a vertical line at the bottom (Magnifying glass) . 
 Second, the storyline is kind of boring. Wario goes into a TV show about a thief and steals his 
 magic wand and Wario takes on the name "the purple wind." No, it doesn't sound too bad, but after 
 a while the characters talking becomes very frequent. That's when it starts to get on your nerves. 
 But overall the good overthrows the bad. I rate this game a 7.5 out of 10. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: liugeaux
Rating: 7.5
Date: Sep 27, 2008 6:29 pm PT
Review:  Wario has had a strange life since he was conceived. He has had success as a platformer star, has 
 been in several Mario sports and party games, and stars in the wildly popular Warioware games. 
 Wario: Master of Disguise is somewhat of a sequel/spin off of the Wario Land Series. Wario Land 
 is a Spin off the Mario Land Series, so with all of this I don't even know if he has had a decent 
 origin story. That is beside the point. Wario: MOD is a stylus heavy platformer that's not as action 
 based as New Super Mario Bros or Yoshi's Island DS, and not as point and click based as Kirby Canvas 
 Curse or Yoshi Touch and Go, it's kind of a blend of the two styles
  
  You control Wario's movements with the the D-Pad and Wario's attacks/transformations with the stylus. 
 Wario uses a wand to change into different costumes that give him different powers. These powers 
 are the bread and butter of MOD. All of the games puzzles are built around these abilities that 
 Wario gets from the wand's costumes. The way you change in to the costumes is by drawing certain 
 shapes on Wario's head and chest area. While this works pretty well, it can be a hindrance when 
 fighting a difficult boss. 
  
  The gameplay is solid and it's only two flaws are the DS's form factor, and the touch screen shape 
 recognition. The way you have to hold the DS caused my hand to go numb... often... which I'm sure 
 will end up giving me some sort of long term hand disorder. However you really can't blame developer 
 Suzak for the shape of the system. Also, some of the shapes you have to draw to transform can be 
 hard to trigger. If I would have the developer to go back a work on something else it would be 
 that. 
  
  The puzzles, are pretty easy for the most part, but their are some head scratchers in there. The 
 leveling up process of the powers seems pointless but each power does has a very distinct use and 
 you MUST use them all extensively to complete the game. One of the most surprising things about 
 Wario MOD is it's length. It has 10 chapters and will probably take the average player 10+ hours 
 to complete the first time around. This adds huge value to the game. 
  
  The story isn't great, and the dialog sequences slow the game down a bit too much, but overall 
 Wario: Master of Disguise is a very solid DS title that can be enjoyed by a very large audience. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TAGM5000
Rating: 5
Date: Aug 28, 2008 12:56 pm PT
Review:  I've always been a mario fan since I played Super Mario Bros. 1, 2, and 3 on SNES. Wario, however, 
 didn't come in until I purchaced warioland 4. I contiuned on with the WarioWare series and Warioworld. 
 So, this game should have been just as good, right?
  It's a shame, then, that this game is a massive disapointment to anyone who's played a previous 
 WarioWare game.
  Let's start with the whole premise. Wario, yet again being a gready nose-picking fat-ass, (no offence 
 to you Wario Fans.) Sees a show on TV staring a man known as Count Canaloni. (that probably isn't 
 spelt right.) Using a magic wand, the Count Changes to the master thief known as the Silver Zephyr. 
 Seeing this, Wario desides to create a helmet to go into TV land and steal the wand. Who knows 
 how Wario got enough inteligence to build a helmet to go into TV world, but didn't have the brains 
 to mass produce it and make a ton of cash. But then again, that would make a pretty bad ga... wait, 
 never mind.
  Anyway, Wario stells the wand, And becomes a superhero. Dubing himself "The Purple Wind," With 
 the catchphrase "Silent But Deadly!" Wario farts... Er, Rushes off to go on a magical journey to 
 get the magical treasures of TV land, the land that is made, of course, by gready big-band companies 
 who would NEVER think of grabing the treasure themselves.
  But let's get back to that wand. The wand, which can strangly talk, tells wario of A mistic treasure 
 known as "The Wishstone," which... grants wishes. Unfortunatly, it's been split into 5 parts, (Plot 
 Conviniance FTW!) so Wario goes to find the Wishstone pieces and get a crap-load of money. Cue 
 10 hours of strange egyptian references, An evil rich guy, and deadly dlophin kings. It isn't shakespeare 
 by any means, but that's true for all the wario games. They've always had good gameplay to combat 
 this, however, and this is where Master Of Disguise fails.
  When the magic wand eats gems, you gain new costumes, or mastery of old ones. To change disgueses, 
 you draw symbols over wario. Anyone who knows their tech, however, should realise that making multiple 
 symbols to draw is a near death sentence. Why?
  Computers can find it VERY HARD to tell one symbol from another, and they get mixed up often. This, 
 along with the fact that you probably can't draw acurate symbols and mach 9, can cause you to change 
 into the wrong costume at the wrong time, and maybe even fail the mission (or rather episode) altogether. 
 You could draw the symbol slowly, but the boss battles require quick swiching of costumes. It can 
 be frustrating, and to add to that, the bosses could have been insultingly easy were it not for 
 the broken machanics.
  At the bottom left corner of any boss fight, the costume required IS SHOWN TO YOU. This means you 
 don't need to experiment too much for boss fights. Of course, experimenting with this symbol recignition 
 while a dolphin is trying to shove it's snout up your ass is never a good idea.
  One of the worst things is that most of these costumes are useful only in very spicific situations. 
 For instance, you COULD run around in a ship, but it wouldn't be a good idea. You COULD just be 
 artist wario for the whole stage, but you wouldn't get anywhere. Your first two costumes, Cosmic 
 Wario and thief wario, will be your most used costumes. The Blocks and holes will become rotine, 
 even after the games atempts to swich it up between levels, Because the levels are about a hour 
 long.
  Collecting treasure should be cool, but it becomes a grind. Opening a chest starts a random minigame 
 al la Warioware: touched! Unfortunatly, there are only about 7 minigames, and the shear number 
 of chests to find makes every one of them boring by the second stage.
  The graphics are pretty good, but we've come to expect 3d graphics in some way for most games. 
 Maybe if Master Of Disguise was more like the warioland games of days past, I would let this go. 
 But still, a bit of 3D graphics and some more enemy animation would be nice!
  While some argue that warioworld killed off the warioland days, I blame this game. It's bland gameplay 
 does nothing to hide the fact that this game seems to be a throwback to the days where tacked-on 
 touch controls were the norm, and those are days we all want to forget. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DJWildduck
Rating: 3.5
Date: Aug 15, 2008 9:40 am PT
Review:  This game is, probably, the worst in the whole 'Wario' franchise. If you want a good Wario game, 
 then grab one of the Wario Lands (especially the 3rd or 4th installments) , or one of the incredible 
 WarioWare titles.
  
  It starts out pretty promising. With the looks of the Wario Land 4, and some interesting touchpad 
 mechanics it could have been a great game after all, even if the plot is not that much of a motivation 
 to keep you playing. But the thing is - the gameplay is bad.
  
  Basically, it's just a sidescroller that requires you to go from point A to point B, and not forgetting 
 to destroy enemies and grab some treasure on the way. Every time you try to open a treasure chest 
 - a mini-game appears that should be completed in order to open the lock. The mini-games are very 
 simple, and not that innovative and crazy as the micro-games in any of the WarioWares. Also, almost 
 every time you see an obstacle on your way that holds you from progressing further - you should 
 put a different costume on, just to get some special abilities which will help you to get rid of 
 that obstacle. Hence the title, the gameplay is mostly based on switching between the costumes 
 all the time. To switch to another costume - you need to paint a special figure on the touchpad, 
 and it's not as easy as it sounds. Painting a figure can be a pain in the ass, because the touchpad 
 response is bad in this game, and the touchpad itself is also used for some actions that Wario 
 can perform. Sometimes during the boss fights you need to switch between the costumes A LOT, but 
 you end up performing useless actions over and over, until the touchpad finally reacts to your 
 paintings. By that time you may be already dead.
  
  Like I said, the plot is not that good either. There's a TV show that Wario watches all the time, 
 and it features a famous thief named Silver Zephyr, who can disguise himself using a magic wand 
 called Goodstyle. Wario invents a Telmet, a helmet that can transfer him into the TV show, and 
 steals the wand from the famous thief. After that he decides to get the most treasured thing in 
 the world - the Wishstone - with the wand's help. In the end Wario finds out that the wand itself 
 is the wishgranter, and asks for the treasure that Silver Zephyr's clan has ever had. Then he tries 
 to teleport himself out of the TV, but the Telmet only transferred his body without the treasure. 
 Wario fixes the Telmet, and teleports back into the TV. Fin. 0_o
  
  So, the overall feel of the game is simply dull. Something you never expected from a Wario game. 
 It's not that bad after all, and if you look for a not 'just-another-jump-and-run' type of a sidescroller, 
 then Master of Disguise actually can be interesting for you for a couple of hours. Otherwise - 
 don't even bother trying it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: edracon
Rating: 2
Date: Aug 10, 2008 1:31 pm PT
Review:  Wario: Master of Disguise seemed to be the Wario game many people were waiting for, that was not 
 the case with this title. At first game game seems to have been constructed very well, progressing 
 you along at a good pace allowing you to get better and better while collecting new powers. That 
 is where the problem is, most of the game is stylus controlled which causes an extremely large 
 amount of errors -- say you want to change to a different power, you will have to draw some kind 
 of symbol on Wario, many times you will change into something else or you will attack, it is very 
 random and irritating. The game is also extremely short, only 10 levels and a few "challenge levels", 
 the problems is that the levels are either extremely long or short, making the game much more frustrating 
 than it should be. Most of the bosses are fairly easy to defeat, the only hard one is the final 
 boss, it wants you to change disguises every few seconds which does not work very well, and once 
 you finally beat the boss you won't even want to touch those "challenge levels". All in all, this 
 game is very frustrating and relies too heavily on the touch screen in a way that doesn't work, 
 it also has no replayability, it tried something fairly new and failed. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mastereloge
Rating: 4.5
Date: Jul 30, 2008 7:47 am PT
Review:  like i said this is a waste im so so so so so so so so so so so so so so so so glad i bought it 
 used, that way i can return it this was actually the second wario game i played the others were 
 good but this one is way waste of time. i mean a talking wand boring! this has to be the worst nintendo 
 wario game ever.
  
  the good: i wish i had some good opinions but i cant think of anything.
  
  the bad : the controls 
 are extremely difficult i mean you have to like draw a tail in order to turn into a dragon and 
 sometimes you might mess up or at least a lot of times.
  
  graphics: fairly simple
  
  story board :same old wario stealing and smelling
  
  final comments : do not get this game 
 or if you dont belive me get it used that way you can return it but to me i would never try and 
 buy this again. oh yeah were it says 10 hours or less probably only 30 minutes 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TissueShoe
Rating: 5
Date: May 29, 2008 11:38 am PT
Review:  Nintendo finally made another Wario platformer after all this time, but is it any good? Not really. 
 The Wario Land series trumps it in every way. The story concept is pretty good, you go into the 
 TV as Wario and become a master thief after a great treasure. Unfortunately, the game doesn't hold 
 together very well. The gameplay isn't very good and suffers from mediocre controls. Pressing up 
 to jump is annoying, and having to draw shapes to make Wario change disguises is even more annoying. 
 These disguises were a good idea, no doubts there, but most of the disguises are useless and lame, 
 killing the fun of them. The levels feel way too long and I'm terrible at figuring out how to beat 
 levels in 2-D platformers like this so it took me about 1-2 hours to beat each of the two levels 
 I finished. Ugh, not very fun! The game also suffers from feeling very unpolished and a little 
 'rough around the edges.' Anyways, Master of Disguise doesn't live up to its name in any way and 
 is overall not a good game. I don't really recommend it to anyone unless you want to be disappointed. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: AgentCH
Rating: 6
Date: Jan 24, 2008 4:18 pm PT
Review:  Before he starred in the awesome WarioWare series, Wario starred in the awesome Wario Land platformer 
 series. Thanks to little-known developer Suzak, the guru of greed has returned to hopping, bopping, 
 and squashing anyone that looks at him funny, all in the name of making himself richer. However, 
 his new title is more than a step down from the level of his old platformers.
  
  The major feature of Wario: Master of Disguise is... well, the disguises. Over the course of the 
 game, you unlock new disguises, each granting new powers. The space suit gives you a laser, the 
 dragon costume lets you breathe fire, the genius costume lets you see invisible doors and platforms, 
 and so on. You keep unlocking these well into the game, as well as new powers for each of them, 
 and you can go back to previous levels to reach previously inaccessible areas, adding a bit of 
 replay value.
  
  Changing costumes is done by drawing a symbol on Wario with the stylus. The thing is, though, the 
 game doesn't always do a good job of recognizing what you're trying to draw. It's simple early 
 on when you don't have that many costumes, but as you keep unlocking them, it becomes that much 
 easier for the game to get confused. While it's not too big a deal while exploring the levels, 
 where you can take your time, you don't have time during most boss battles to bungle around with 
 the disguises until the game gives you what you want. Mega Man's been changing forms more easily 
 for years with a pause menu or the shoulder buttons, and it could've been done here as well. It's 
 not so hard to deal with that it makes the game unbeatable, though, but it's still frustrating 
 as it is.
  
  In addition, the artist costume's abilities revolve entirely around drawing on the Touch Screen. 
 You can create blocks, which is done by drawing a square, and health-restoring hearts by drawing... 
 well, a heart. If the game doesn't think your drawing is square-ish or heart-ish enough, it becomes 
 a walking poo (no, seriously) and you just wasted a few seconds. Once again, that's something you 
 don't want to happen during a boss battle.
  
  Since the action requires you to keep the stylus in one hand for all the Touch Screen usage, the 
 movement controls have been mapped to the D-Pad and the letter buttons. That is to say, they both 
 have the same functions, for lefties or righties. This includes jumping, set to Up or X. It feels 
 a little weird using the same hand to move and jump, but it's actually easy to get used to. It 
 makes it easier to grab ladders in mid-jump, that's for sure.
  
  As with Wario's past adventures, there's treasure to be found. Scattered though levels are treasure 
 chests containing not only treasures, but new disguises, health upgrades, and key items for the 
 level you're in. Standing between you and every one of these items, though, is a Touch Screen-based 
 mini-game. These include connecting dots, coloring pictures, and (ugh) sliding tile puzzles. There's 
 only eight different kinds of mini-games, and they're not that challenging, either, even as they 
 increase in difficulty. You eventually get sick of seeing the same eight games over and over again.
 
  
  To call Wario: Master of Disguise just a platformer wouldn't be totally accurate. There's a good 
 deal of puzzle solving to do to get around each level, which requires the abilities of the disguises. 
 However, there's not much variety. Much of it is just switch-shooting with the space suit, or using 
 the artist's blocks to reach elevated crawl spaces and weigh down buttons.
  
  The levels are huge and elaborate, and it's not often clear where you're supposed to go next. Due 
 to the maze-like layout of the levels, it's easy to get lost and end up backtracking over the same 
 rooms over and over, even when you have the level map. It doesn't help that certain obstacles and 
 puzzles reset when you leave the room, and must be dealt with every time you enter. It's not unusual 
 to take over half an hour (maybe even a whole hour) to beat a level with all of this in your way. 
 At least it gives the game length, even if it's in an annoying way  There's only 10 levels, but 
 it'll certainly take a long time to finish.
  
  The sound is okay, but nothing special  Besides Wario's mad laughter, there's nothing noteworthy 
 about the sound effects. The music isn't catchy, but at least it's well-suited for the environments. 
 As for the graphics, most of the levels and enemies look so generic and dull for a game starring 
 someone who hangs out with Mario. They're like what you'd find in one of those SNES games that's 
 supposed to be based on a kid's movie, but it barely follows the movie and throws in a bunch of 
 environments and enemies that weren't in the movie because it didn't have enough stuff trying to 
 kill the hero. They just doesn't have that Wario feel.
  
  Wario: Master of Disguise is certainly not up to the level of quality that's worthy of Wario. While 
 Wario games often try to be different from other games, this one tries to make more use of the 
 Touch Screen than it really needs. The confusing level design, average graphics and sound, and 
 annoying mini-games drag it down as well. You could do worse if you're looking for a platformer 
 on the DS, but more importantly, you could do better. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kcweezkid
Rating: 3
Date: Dec 14, 2007 11:49 am PT
Review:  I am the type of guy who likes to do my research before making a decision about games. Rarely do 
 I wait for a game to come out and buy it the day it does. Hype can be a scary thing in the gaming 
 world, and there are plenty of places to do your research before making the wrong choice on a game. 
 This means that it is rare that I buy a game that I enjoy, at least on some levels, but this game 
 is one of those rare cases.
  
  The game play itself is slow and for the most part boring. The levels  once you get into them 
  are lacking in creativity. The stylus plays an important part in the game and it feels forced. 
 You will find yourself holding the stylus pen while trying to still use the other buttons too often. 
 To make up for this, the controls are very simple, and once you get used to them it becomes less 
 of a big deal to hold the pen and the use the buttons at the same time. The overall game play is 
 slow. Getting into the story is slow. It is just lacking in many areas and that makes it a rather 
 difficult play.
  
  The good, The Bad, The Interesting 
  
  The Good  There are some cool gimmicks especially with the mini games within levels, but nothing 
 is groundbreaking and if I want mini games there are plenty of better options. The color is pretty 
 decent and I believe this is one of the greatest systems around to show bright vibrant colors, 
 but there are plenty of games out there that seem just (if not more) vibrant than this game, besides 
 a game cannot get by on vibrant colors anyway. The Bad  Well there are plenty of reasons I would 
 not recommend this game, but the biggest one is the slow gameplay. Getting into the story is a 
 drag. The story takes a long time to develop and is not interesting. Each level has a long intro 
 that should help develop the story, but you cannot skip these and the story is fairly juvenile 
 and unneeded anyway. I just want to play the game; I don't need to read a book about what is going 
 on in the game. There are plenty of other reasons this game bothers me, but this is the biggest 
 problem and enough for me to give up on this game on several occasions prior to this post.
  
  The Interesting  I have read on several occasions that this is a game that grows on you. I 
 have played games like that in the past and that is why I am not quite ready to give up on this 
 one. Still I have put in my time on the game and still find it to be rather boring. I need more 
 action in a game like this and it simply has not delivered. I feel there are plenty of games on 
 the DS that capture exactly what this one is trying to capture, and would recommend looking for 
 other titles before taking a flier on this one. This game has frustrated me to the point of wanting 
 to resell it. The only thing stopping me is that it has pretty decent reviews out there online. 
 Maybe it will grow on me, but my patience is running out here. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Darkknight313
Rating: 8
Date: Dec 11, 2007 12:13 pm PT
Review:  The first Wario game since 2003 this is a good game I wonder why people don't like it? The plot: 
 Wario was just watching tv and then he saw a show about a thief named Cannoli and then Wario invents 
 a device to go into his tv and steals the thief's cane then Wario becomes the Purple Wind and so 
 then he try's to become rich by stealing treasure and then hears about a wish stone so he try's 
 to gather all the pieces to become the richest but then Cannoli try's to stop him and so then on 
 the way they meet another thief named Carpacio for an unknown reason searches for the wish stone 
 and so then Cannoli teams up with Carpacio to stop Wario but then a mysterious girl named Tiaressa 
 help's Wario on the journey but then it turns out Tiaressa is really Terroressa and that the Cannoli 
 and Carpacio clans throught generations have been trying to make sure no one get's all the pieces 
 of the wish stone then it turns out the power rod is really the creator of the Cannoli clan and 
 then Wario doesn't get the treasure he got from tv land in reality. This game is great I give it 
 a 8. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pspitus
Rating: 8
Date: Jul 22, 2007 3:51 am PT
Review:  I've never played any Wario only games, okay maybe Wario: Smoothe Moves but that doesn't really 
 count. It's funny how I came across this, I was never really planning to buy it. I was at Toy R 
 Us and they were having a sale, buy two get one free. So I decided to buy DS games, I got Mario 
 Kart and Rocket Slime, and guess what I got for free, if you guessed Wario: Master of Disguise you 
 are correct. Well here's my review.
  
  3 out of 5
  Story: You play as Wario of course. Wario is tired and bored of his life (suicidal) , he wants to 
 be wealthy and rich. But he knows he can't actually achieve that in reality so he decides to go 
 to television for help and who doesn't. Using his new invention Wario puts himself on a show about 
 a thief named Cannoli. Wario, now known as the Purple Wind, upstages Cannoli and takes over his 
 show to become the greatest thief ever and to become filthy, stinking, rich. The story wasn't that 
 good, but it wasn't that bad either. This kind of stuff has been done before, going into the television, 
 that was so last, ummmm 2000, I don't know.
  
  4 out of 5
  Gameplay: Wario: Master of Disguise makes pretty good use of the touch-screen. Using your stylus 
 you will need to draw yourself disguises in which will help you get of of sticky situations, solve 
 puzzles, and defeat the enemies who oppose you. This works well but at times during frantic situations 
 when you need a certain disguise to save your bum disguises will mess up. For example when you 
 need Artsy Wario and you draw yourself a canvas you get Genius Wario, this can and most likely 
 will happen sometimes while you are playing. Everytime you open a treasure chest you will engage 
 in a minigame. Some are as simple as connecting the dots, while others are more complicated like 
 solving picture puzzles. This seems like a unique idea at first but after you have opened about 
 thirty chests the minigames will start to become worn out and dull. Sooner or later you will wish 
 that you can just have the goodies in the chest without the annoying MINIGAMES popping up. This 
 is one feature that shouldn't have been added. Although Wario: Master of Disguise doesn't have flawless 
 gameplay it's still pretty good, well by my standards.
  
  5 out of 5
  Graphics: The graphics, level design, character models, everything is vibrant in color. Every level, 
 boss fight, and monster is nice and appealing to look at. There was never a dull moment in the 
 game, well in graphical terms anyway.
  
  1 out of 5
  Sound: The sound effects and music were of poor quality. All attacks sounded almost the same, all 
 monster sounds sounded the same, everything, not including music, sounded the same. A little voice 
 acting wouldn't hurt either, the game had loads of good dialogue, if only we could hear actual 
 people saying it instead of our minds saying it. IF ONLY. The music wasn't all that great especially 
 when you get stuck on a level, you will want to turn the music down after listening to the same 
 song over twenty times. Sound wasn't a good strong point in Wario: Master of Disguise, period.
 
  
  Overall: Wario: Master of Disguise is a good game, don't let anyone tell you other wise. If you have 
 played any of the Wario games on the GBA then you will know what to expect. Wario: Master of Disguise 
 may not bbe perfect but it has it's share of moments, stinky, stinky moments. HAHAHA WARIO! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: FenrisPuppy
Rating: 7.9
Date: Jul 17, 2007 12:40 am PT
Review:  Despite the many negative reviews, I decided to try this game anyway. Am I ever glad I did. While 
 I am not a huge fan of the Mario platform type games, this game and Yoshi's Island DS are two of 
 my favorite games at this time. While the mini-games can be a bit tedious and uneven in difficulty, 
 the actual exploration of the crazy locations is a lot of fun. The story isn't brilliant, but it 
 has enough twists and turns to keep me playing. Some of the touchscreen controls seemed really 
 broken at first, but once I removed my screen protector, the accuracy of my stylus appeared to 
 sharply improve (or did I just get better as kept playing?) . Anyway the touchscreen aspects of 
 the game did not hamper my enjoyment of this game. I only bring this up, because a lot of people 
 seem to be critical of the touchscreen aspects of the game. Anyway, if you have $20 burning a hole 
 in your pocket, go pick up a used copy. It is actually a pretty good game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: yranriahi
Rating: 7.6
Date: Jul 15, 2007 1:11 pm PT
Review:  look ppl i play 5 hrs on this game i like it it is fun and puzzly thats what i like but there is 
 something WRONG if it is in my games i dont know but when i draw my line goes like the heart vibrations 
 (bumping) lol
  
  okay well wario master of disguise is a game that starts with a villan of mario the one and only 
 wario he is being lazy in his room until he changes on a teleserial of the silver zephir then wario 
 gets in the tv and steals the silver zephr wand aka count cannoli and then u have to go on adventure 
 and find those wishstones to make wario's wish true that it is money money money it is a funny 
 game and the microphone is included 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sonic_rusher
Rating: 7.7
Date: May 1, 2007 9:36 pm PT
Review:  I purchased Wario: MOD (Master of disguise) . that also is a great game. It has at least eight innovative 
 costumes, each with their own abilities for different situations. I beat the game in about 3 days 
 playing for about 2 hours a day. I obtained all the side stuff and neccessary stuff. It was pretty 
 good, for a short game. The game got me pretty involved. I personally liked his codename: [SBD- 
 silent but deadly] . The game itself has good clip scenes and also a comediac touch to it. It was 
 very fun to watch Wario get stuck inside a TV. All in all, harcore thinking gamers like LOZ players 
 might not like this game because of its short gaming length (If not, go for Super Paper Mario) . 
 I think the game was pretty good overall, even though I would rather play a game that really makes 
 you think! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DidiCardoso
Rating: 7.1
Date: Apr 17, 2007 12:09 pm PT
Review:  As the story goes, Wario finds a TV show based on the adventures of a certain thief - the Silver 
 Zephyr - who can disguise himself in several different and extremely useful outfits. Jealous Wario 
 rushes out searching for the Zephyr only to steal what makes him so special: a talking magic wand 
 named Goodstyle. In the middle of the dispute, word is out that a particular Wishstone is aboard 
 the ship, making its way to a museum. Wario's quest will revolve around gathering the five pieces 
 of the Wishstone while using Goodstyle and the different outfits to solve a series of puzzles.
 
  
  The game is mainly a side-scrolling platformer, but simultaneously it's much more than that. You 
 can control Wario by moving, ducking and jumping with either the D-pad or the A, B, X and Y buttons 
 (convenient to suit both left-handed and right-handed players) . The stylus is used to enter doors, 
 shoot, draw, open chests and a bunch of other little activities.
  
  To get through any given stage, you must use Wario's disguise abilities to solve puzzles. As you 
 progress and open more chests, you will find different outfits to disguise yourself with, each 
 of them having a particular ability that proves extremely useful in the right situations. To use 
 each outfit, you must draw a particular sign over Wario.
  
  Thief Wario is the basic outfit, it makes Wario jump higher and run faster. It also allows you 
 to attack with a tap of the stylus. To use this, you draw a check mark over Wario.
  
  Arty Wario can draw portals and boxes, but he can't move while doing so. To use it, you draw a 
 square with a diagonal line inside. Boxes are very useful to reach higher platforms, while the 
 portals take you to the last save point or the beginning of the stage.
  
  Cosmic Wario defies gravity with his jump and attacks with laser. To use this outfit, you draw 
 a circle around Wario's head, like a helmet. You can use the laser to shoot star blocks (they give 
 coins) , activate switches, lower chandeliers and attack enemies.
  
  Genius Wario has special goggles that allow him to see things you couldn't before, such as platforms 
 or hidden passages. To use it, you draw a sort of a magnifying glass.
  
  These are the first four outfits that you'll be using, but there are more. Dragon Wario outfit 
 gives him fire breath and can be used to destroy red blocks. Sparky Wario can generate electricity 
 to light up dark environments. Captain Wario allows you to shoot torpedoes and cross lava and water 
 without any problems. Wicked Wario gives him flying abilities by blowing on the microphone.
  
  Level progression gets complicated as you go, since you aren't given any hints as to what outfit 
 you should use at a certain spot. If you get stuck somewhere, chances are you will end up using 
 all the outfits available to see if you can do anything differently with one of them.
  
  After you have found all of the different disguises, it's worth going back to the previous stages, 
 and see if you can access places you couldn't before by using the new abilities. After all, and 
 aside from the Wishstone tablets, Wario really wants to collect all that treasure.
  
  Treasures are visible on the levels in the form as colorful chests. Each chest has a treasure (or 
 an outfit) but you only get it if you clear the mini-game. Think of it as a lock, and to open it, 
 you need to complete a task. Some of these mini-games include coloring objects, squashing cockroaches, 
 finishing a sliding puzzle and connect the numbers in the right order without lifting the stylus 
 (like in Brain Age) . There are only 8 types of mini-games in total, so what you will end up seeing 
 is a harder version of what you already did to open a previous chest.
  
  If you fail to open a chest, bombs will come out and explode. There are no big consequences aside 
 from losing health if you're too close, so you can just move aside and try to open the chest again.
 
  
  Boss fights require you to change disguises on the fly, to use different properties on a boss. 
 For example, there is one that you must switch into Cosmic Wario to shoot it in the eye first to 
 remove the hat, then switch to Arty Wario and draw a block over it to press the switch, and finally 
 change into Thief Wario to jump on it and hit it. All boss fights have a little hint thought balloon 
 that tell you which disguise to use next, and although that helps a lot, most of the time it's 
 not really clear what to do while wearing the right disguise.
  
  The Wario franchise goes in a completely different direction this time, but unfortunately, while 
 the concept is clever and interesting, the controls feel clunky and awkward, which can turn the 
 experience into a frustrating one. The stylus controls seem a bit superfluous outside of the mini-games, 
 and disguise changing could have been done differently and a lot simpler.
  
  Nevertheless, Wario: Master of Disguise is still a game worth playing for both the challenge and 
 originality.
  
  Review text part of Grrlgamer. com. Full text and screens at http://www. grrlgamer. com/review. php? g=wariodisguise 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: UndulationInc
Rating: 6.7
Date: Apr 16, 2007 11:08 am PT
Review:  Wario has always been my favorite antagonist turned protagonist in any series. From his earlier 
 days on the GBC and GBA to his first 3D adventure on the GC, I've stood by the yellow and purple 
 for a long time, but Master of Disguise does not appeal to me at all... read on!
  
  GAMEPLAY ~
  We'll first start off by saying that the touch screen will be the main focus of the 
 game, from drawing boxes, triangles and other geometric objects to the constant mini-games you 
 must work through to actually acquire the treasures you seek. You move by the touch screen but 
 some of the buttons do act as substitute movers if needed. Y and A move you left and right, B lets 
 you duck and the X button... well I can't remember... to attack, it's all the touch screen! So 
 get use to it!
  Too bad the drawing isn't that easy. Many of the touch screen features don't seem steady and I 
 found myself drawing objects over and over again, and sometimes getting a totally different result 
 that needed (tried to draw a box got the space suit, tried to draw the space suit got the glasses...) 
 MoD got very frustrating very fast because of this... and for a Wario game that means defeat in 
 all areas. Stick to what Wario is good at!! Kickin @$$ and takin names!
  MoD should have been a side-scrolling gem like all the others with limited focus on touch screen 
 aspects, because it relied too much on it, and because of this the final score was hurt.
  
  STORY ~ 9 / 10
  Wario wants to be rich, he creates a helmet that lets him enter the TV and steal 
 Cannoli's magic wand which endows Wario is excellent costume changes. Eh... it's a Wario game... 
 so expect fart jokes and all those other gross habits that makes Wario such an awesome heel!
  
  GRAPHICS ~
  Wario: Master of Disguise looks great! Not fantastic, not awesome, just great. 
 MoD is all side-scrolling and the appearance of all the character sprites look like a 2D N64 title. 
 It's original, but the real good part comes in Warios 7 costume changes. Under the guise of the 
 Purple Wind, Wario can go from a Scientist to a Dragon with a swipe of the stylus.
  Alot of the environments are interactive and it really plays like a well rounded 2D side-scroller... 
 but too bad the touch-screen features really makes many of the special effects look like something 
 I drew in Mario Paint back in my Grade School days... it does hurt... but MoD does give you a useful 
 map! So there is some light at the end of the tunnel!
  
  SOUND ~
  Wario's laugh is the real draw here as it is his trademark. Other than that, don't expect miracles 
 because I hardly heard any songs while playing it. The only song I remember is Cannoli's song, 
 because it reminds me of the Borat track You Be My Wife . It has a eastern European feel to it 
 and it gets on your nerves really fast... unlike Borat... which I loved.
  The game host a few SFX, but nothing to awe inspiring, you'll hear some poofing noises and laser 
 shots, but mostly the sound of money is heard over all. Ah money... nothing else worth remembering.
 
  
  REPLAYABILITY ~
  Master of Disguise shouldn't take you over 15 hours to complete, and if it does, you probably got 
 lost or frustrated at trying to master your new disguise.
  MoD does offer a nice suspends game option, but other than that it holds really no replayability, 
 unless you like treasure hunting. as just mentioned Treasure Hunting is the name of the game, and 
 to acquire those treasures you need to indulge yourself in what Wario has been known for in all 
 his non-platforming titles... mini-games.
  They are the average run of the mill DS games. Tracing, squashing, and moving. You name the average, 
 and Master of Disguise delivers. An if that isn't enough, all the mini-games you complete in-game 
 are than playable on the main menu! Awesome! Too bad that is the only major draw of the game. Also 
 you can view a bestiary and all acquired treasures in the same menu as the mini-games, so at least 
 it's convenient.
  
  OVERALL ~
  You need to play a Wario title search out Wario Land 4 for the GBA. It's what Master of Disguise 
 should have been more based on that trying to push the envelope with all the touch screen and mic 
 options. If you already own it, enjoy it, if you don't! Avoid it!
  It still hurts me to give a Wario title such a low score... but maybe they will realize their mistakes 
 and keep his side-scrolling and interactive mini-gaming separately... for the fans sake! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: wigglebutt32
Rating: 8.6
Date: Apr 6, 2007 12:22 pm PT
Review:  Well, this game is pretty nice. The graphics aren't that great more like a graphic of GBA. Sometimes 
 the touch screen gets in the when and when you're arty wario its hard to change to something else. 
 A very interesting storyline and worth the buy overall. A lot of characters to choose from there 
 are eight disguises which includes theif wario. You kinda can get all the disguises in the first 
 few episodes, but its alright. There's Theif Wario/Purple Wind, Sparky Wario, Captain Wario, Genius 
 Wario, Arty Wario, Cosmic Wario, Wicked Wario, and Dragon Wario. They all are quite useful, but 
 some have their flaws. The game can also get hard or confusing at points, but its worth it in the 
 end. This game is fun and full of energy. I deffinently suggest this to all Wario fans and beyond. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tails_and_mario
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 25, 2007 2:18 pm PT
Review:  The review Gamespot has given this game is about as believable as Michael Jackson walking into 
 the room and saying I'm really a girl 
  This game is definitely the best Wario platformer ever made. The plot is quite enticing- Wario 
 is watching TV one day and he sees a show that changes his life forever- THE SILVER ZEPHYR! The 
 Silver Zephyr is a thief who has a talking wand named Goodstyle that helps him. Wario gets jealous 
 so he makes a magic helmet that puts him into the show. Soon, he has put the Silver Zephyr out 
 of thievery business, and Wario is off, along with Goodstyle, to find the pieces of the legendary 
 wishstone before Cannoli (The Eggman-like reformed Silver Zephyr) does!
  The reason this game is called MASTER OF DISGUISE is for the 8 disguises Wario wears in this game. 
 Wario can change his outfits to do specific abilities. Thief Wario is the basic disguise, but you 
 can obtain 7 more- Cosmic Wario, who shoots stuff with a gun, Artistic Wario, who can paint blocks 
 and warp doors, as well as hearts, Genius Wario, who can see invisible doors, platforms, and exits, 
 as well as use a powerful boxing glove ability, and more. The game is chock full of minigames, 
 which, if beaten, unlock treasures Wario can collect. Overall, this game was definitely worth my 
 35$ and I can't stop playing it!!!!!!!! :) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: InvaderSora
Rating: 1.5
Date: Mar 25, 2007 11:45 am PT
Review:  Sadly, i rented it. I wasted a rental. This is the second worst mario-related game EVER!
  
  I'll start with graphics. They are better than Nintendo Power showed.. pretty nice scenery...
 
  
  Sound? There is rarely, if ever, any sound. Yeah, maybe on the Game boy color, but not on the DS!
 
  
  
  Gameplay. Ugg. GAMEPLAY SUCKS. It is hard to play, and when you open a door, it makes you punch.. 
 Nintendo has made a bad move here. jumping is pressing the up button? WAY too difficult to play. 
 Dont buy it. For your own sake. Youll be wasting 30 bucks. Get a better game than this. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ToaInikaJaller
Rating: 1.9
Date: Mar 24, 2007 2:08 pm PT
Review:  Well, if this isn't one of the **** games ever. Thank GOD i rented it only. I am highly dissapointed 
 in this game. Graphics are smoother and better than the screens (Im looking at YOU, Nintendo Power! 
 
  
  And there is little sound, a nd that sound is boring action noises. No spoken cutscenes.
  
  
 Gameplay is verya nnoying. It takes 5 minutes to opena god damn door because you ahve to tap it, 
 and that makes wario do his punch-thing or whatever the hell it is. This is the second worst mario 
 series game ever. do not buy it. DONT EVEN RENT IT!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Wiifan127
Rating: 7.6
Date: Mar 19, 2007 6:47 pm PT
Review:  Now, you may disagree with me when I say I enjoy Wario: Master of Disguise. These review people 
 tell you that the touch screen control aren't necessary, when, really, they are the best part of 
 the game. Changing costumes by drawing things works very well. The people who review this must 
 have terrible handwriting if they can't draw Captain Wario without drawing Cosmic Wario. I find 
 they work very well. I have unlocked 6 disguises, and had no trouble. I did have trouble with one 
 because I forgot how to draw it. There are minigames, too. I do agree the minigames get dull quite 
 fast, but they are just trying to keep the action going. The puzzles in each level are quite easy, 
 but I find switching disguises to find the solution to a problem to be quite enjoyable. Without 
 the touch screen controls, this would be a dull game. I love drawing the disguises, and they work 
 when I draw them. If you're looking for a sidescrolling action/puzzler for DS, get Wario: Master 
 of Disguise. Also, send your friends rude yet funny messages from Wario at wario. nintendods. com. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Robbie_IV
Rating: 4.8
Date: Mar 17, 2007 11:53 pm PT
Review:  Wario, long Nintendo's go-to guy when it came to handheld games, is back once again in Wario: Master 
 of disguise. However, what was once a proud and somewhat under appreciated series has been very 
 poorly represented in this latest sequel. What used to be a series that was all about wacky action 
 romps through bizarre and colorful settings has been turned into a drab an almost generic platform/puzzler 
 hybrid that carries almost none of the spirit and very little of the fun that was prevalent in 
 those earlier Wario games. The old Wario Land series has seemingly been reinterpreted by a group 
 of individuals who had limited experience with it and almost no idea what to do with it or the 
 system it was destined for. The game kicks off with Wario watching television and becoming jealous 
 of one of the characters he spots on the screen. Seeking to gain the riches he sees the person 
 on TV collecting for himself, he builds a contraption that allows him to jump into the television 
 set and into the program itself. Once there, he steals the device that allows the shows main character 
 to become a master thief, and re-dubs himself The Purple Wind as he sets off in search of incredible 
 wealth. It's right here that one of the game's first problems becomes apparent. The story is told 
 through long, seemingly endless walls of text that are a chore to read. Almost any resemblance 
 to the sense of humor in the old Wario games is absent, save for constant fart jokes made in reference 
 to Wario's thief name.
  
  Levels are an awkward combination of platforming and puzzling. There's almost no action to speak 
 of, except for the occasional encounter with some rather basic and uninteresting enemies. Usually 
 you'll have to solve some sort of simple puzzle to make progress from one part of the stage to 
 another. These puzzles eventually begin repeating endlessly with almost no variation, which becomes 
 a huge drag. Instead of getting from point A to point B, the game requires you to run around different 
 mazelike stages searching in vain for some way to make progress to the next treasure. This can 
 lead to very long and very aggravating periods of wandering looking for the one place where progress 
 can be made. In between all of this are mini-games that must be played to unlock the chests containing 
 the treasure Wario seeks. Like the game's puzzles, these games are fairly simple and repeat over 
 and over, getting boring very quickly.
  
  Wario's movement is controlled with just the D-Pad. Your other hand is required to use the stylus 
 on the touch screen to control Wario's actions and change his costumes. Each of his different costumes 
 allows him different abilities that are supposed to help him through different situations. The 
 problem is, the game is very bad at recognizing the different patterns you draw on the screen in 
 attempts to get Wario to switch clothes, and this can get very frustrating very quickly. Controlling 
 movement with a single finger feels incredibly awkward as well, as it's apparent that this setup 
 was only made necessary by the developer's insistence of implementing the touch screen into the 
 game. This is even more aggravating because it would've been simple enough to switch costumes with 
 a button press instead of forcing the touch screen controls on the player. It's actually a good 
 thing, in a way, that there isn't as much of an emphasis on action in this game. If there was, 
 these shoddy controls would get aggravating that much faster. However, its probably the controls 
 that necessitated designing the game in such a manner, making them even more annoying.
  
  The game's presentation comes off as a stale, sterile imitation of what a Wario game should be. 
 Instead of the cel-shaded look of the older games, this game uses the rendered look that got old 
 after the first Donkey Kong Country game. A system like the Nintendo DS should be able to create 
 something better than this. Even the levels themselves are dull. Instead of adventuring across 
 a giant living paint canvas or through a giant pinball machine like Wario has done in games past, 
 Wario starts things out on a bland-looking cruise ship and proceeds to head off through several 
 more boring areas. The music's a waste too. There are a few voice samples that repeat occasionally, 
 but these by no means make up for any of it. It all just comes off as though the developers had 
 no idea what a Wario game should be like.
  
  Wario: Master of Disguise is a disappointment to say the least. Part of the blame can be placed 
 on developer Suzak, who clearly aren't familiar with handling the Wario license. The Nintendo-developed 
 games in this series were light-years ahead of this game in almost every way. It's a boring, awkward 
 game where fun is replaced by endless wandering and a disappointing sense of what could have been, 
 if perhaps Nintendo themselves had handled this (as they hopefully will in the future) . If you 
 want a Wario game, then by all means take the time to hunt down one of the old Wario Land games 
 in the used games section of your local game store instead of picking this up. It's a bad game, 
 and it's not worth your money. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: deviru
Rating: 7.3
Date: Mar 14, 2007 6:12 am PT
Review:  Played this game for 5 hours or so and now im getting bored, thinkin of selling this game back... 
 lolz... Alrite.. review so far...
  
  Gameplay... it has a unique gameplay, i can say, but after a while everything is getting repetitive... 
 and I cant stand it... In addition, the accuracy of the touch screen is hopeless... and i cant 
 find a way to calibrate it in the game... which is so stupid since I calibrated my touch screen 
 well... So, I give 8 for the uniqueness minus the glitch, problem, or whatever u wanna call it...
 
  
  Graphics is great for DS game... better than Rayman RR &gt;.&lt; give it 9...
  
  Sound... the sound is alrite... give 8 for it...
  
  Value... hm.. i dont think its a good value 
 for me... give it 6
  
  Tilt... ergh.... nope.... 6 is enuff ^^
  
  Conclusion.... not a bad game.,.. but i dont know... for me its just a repetitive game and the 
 longer i play, the faster i wanna turn it off... its simply not a game for me.. ^^ 
::::::

::::::
UserName: EffixC
Rating: 7.1
Date: Mar 9, 2007 7:02 am PT
Review:  I'm always the Wario fan. From the very beginning time in GB, Wario Land, and Wario world, every time 
 I was that excited to expect a funny game, a bad-luck but will-never-give-up Wario, and a good time 
 playing.
  
  Now I welcome the lastest Wario World series on DS. Maybe there's no more 'Wario World'.'Cos you 
 know the rules we play DS and the ways we love the play means it brings. But, an action WOULD and 
 SHOULD not take a touch' way to play. Think 'bout it: when I'm tired to control the character using 
 the cross pad, I must focus on my dear stylus and touch the buttom screen to have the game on the 
 right way, pretend not being killed, get rid of the annoying enemies...
  
  That's why when I first played Wario: Master Of Disguise, I quickly gave out a fair rating:7. What 
 an coincident is in Wario: Master of Disguise,'7' is exactly the number of the jobs Wario can master. I'll 
 keep on playing it, but not for fun any more, just for a collection, and a small hope: Hope next time, we 
 back on the old school. Who says any game on DS should and must use the stylus fuction? Don't forget 
 the dual screen is DS's true birth name. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
